UNITED ST ATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
FORM10-K
 ☒ ANNUAL REPOR T PURSUANT T O SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020
or
☐ TRANSITION REPOR T PURSUANT T O SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from                     to        
Commission File Number 1-5231
McDONALD’S CORPORA TION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware 36-2361282
(State or other jurisdiction of
 incorporation or organization)(I.R.S. Employer
 Identification No.)
110 North Carpenter Street, Chicago, Illinois 60607
(Address of principal executive offices)(Zip code)
 
Registrant’ s telephone number , including area code: (630)  623-3000
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class Trading Symbol(s) Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock, $0.01 par value MCD New York Stock Exchange
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes ☒  No ☐
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes ☐  No ☒
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days.  Yes ☒  No ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation
S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).  Yes ☒  No ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging
growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer  ☒         Accelerated filer  ☐ Non-accelerated filer  ☐
Smaller reporting company  ☐ Emerging growth company  ☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised
financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over
financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit
report. ☒ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  Yes ☐  No ☒
The aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30, 2020 was $137,233,144,378.
The number of shares outstanding of the registrant’s common stock as of January 31, 2021 was 745,572,145.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Part III of this Form 10-K incorporates information by reference from the registrant’s 2021 definitive proxy statement, which will be filed no later than 120 days after
December 31, 2020. 
McDONALD’S CORPORA TION
TABLE OF C ONT ENTS
ORGANIZATION OF OUR ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
The order and presentation of content in our Annual Report on Form 10-K ("Form 10-K") dif fers from the traditional U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission ("SEC") Form 10-K format. W e believe that our format improves readability and better presents how we organize and manage our
business. See "Form 10-K Cross-Reference Index" for a cross-reference index to the traditional SEC Form 10-K format.
Page reference
Forward-Looking Statements 3
About McDonald's 3
    Business Summary 3
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 8
    Management's V iew of the Business 8
    Financial Performance and Strategic Direction 8
    Outlook 10
    Consolidated Operating Results 11
    Cash Flows 19
    Financial Position and Capital Resources 21
    Other Matters 24
Other Key Information 25
    Selected Financial Data 26
    Market for Registrant's Common Equity , Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28
    Risk Factors 29
    Legal Proceedings 35
    Properties 35
    Information About our Executive Of ficers 36
    Availability of Company Information 37
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 37
Controls and Procedures 64
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 64
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 65
Form 10-K Cross-Reference Index 68
Signatures 69
All trademarks used herein are the property of their respective owners.
FOR WARD-LOOKING ST ATEMENTS
The information in this report includes forward-looking statements about future events and circumstances and their ef fects upon revenues,
expenses and business opportunities. Generally speaking, any statement in this report not based upon historical fact is a forward-looking
statement. Forward-looking statements can also be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as "could," "should," "continue,"
"estimate," "forecast," "intend," "look," “may ,” “will,” “expect,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “plan,” "remain" and "confident" or similar expressions. In
particular , statements regarding our plans, strategies, prospects and expectations regarding our business and industry , including those under
"2020 Financial Performance", "Strategic Direction", "Outlook", or "Risk Factors" are forward-looking statements. They reflect our expectations,
are not guarantees of performance and speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law , we do not undertake to update such
forward-looking statements. Our business results are subject to a variety of risks, including those considerations or risks that are reflected in the
"Risk Factors" section, as well as elsewhere in our filings with the SEC. If any of these considerations or risks materialize, our expectations (or
underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized and our performance may be adversely af fected. Therefore, you should not rely unduly
on any forward-looking statements.
ABOUT McDONALD'S
McDonald’ s Corporation, the registrant, together with its subsidiaries, is referred to herein as the "Company ." The Company , its franchisees and
suppliers, are referred to herein as the "System."
BUSINESS SUMMARY
General
For the year ended December 31, 2020, there were no material changes to the Company's corporate structure or in its method of conducting
business. The Company’ s reporting segments are aligned with its strategic priorities and reflect how management reviews and evaluates
operating performance. Significant reportable segments include the United States ("U.S.") and International Operated Markets ("IOM"). In
addition, throughout this report we present the International Developmental Licensed Markets & Corporate segment ("IDL"), which includes
markets in over 80 countries, as well as Corporate activities. Ef fective January 1, 2019, McDonald's changed its global operating structure. Refer
to the Segment and Geographic Information section included on page 50 of this Form 10-K for additional information.
Description of business
•General
The Company franchises and operates McDonald’ s restaurants, which serve a locally-relevant menu of quality food and beverages in 119
countries. Of the 39,198 restaurants at year-end 2020, 36,521 were franchised, which is 93% of McDonald's restaurants.
McDonald’ s franchised restaurants are owned and operated under one of the following structures - conventional franchise, developmental
license or af filiate. The optimal ownership structure for an individual restaurant, trading area or market (country) is based on a variety of factors,
including the availability of individuals with the entrepreneurial experience and financial resources, as well as the local legal and regulatory
environment in critical areas such as property ownership and franchising. The business relationship between McDonald’ s and its independent
franchisees is supported by adhering to standards and policies and is of fundamental importance to overall performance and to protecting the
McDonald’ s brand.
The Company is primarily a franchisor and believes franchising is paramount to delivering great-tasting food, locally relevant customer
experiences and driving profitability . Franchising enables an individual to be their own employer and maintain control over all employment related
matters, marketing and pricing decisions, while also benefiting from the strength of McDonald’ s global brand, operating system and financial
resources.
Directly operating McDonald’ s restaurants contributes significantly to our ability to act as a credible franchisor . One of the strengths of the
franchising model is that the expertise from operating Company-owned restaurants allows McDonald’ s to improve the operations and success of
all restaurants while innovations from franchisees can be tested and, when viable, ef ficiently implemented across relevant restaurants. Having
Company-owned and operated restaurants provides Company personnel with a venue for restaurant operations training experience. In addition,
in our Company-owned and operated restaurants, and in collaboration with franchisees, we are able to further develop and refine operating
standards, marketing concepts and product and pricing strategies that will ultimately benefit McDonald’ s restaurants.
The Company’ s revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees. Fees vary
by type of site, amount of Company investment, if any , and local business conditions. These fees, along with occupancy and operating rights, are
stipulated in franchise/license agreements that generally have 20-year terms. The Company’ s Other revenues are comprised of technology fees
paid by franchisees, revenues from brand licensing arrangements, and third party revenues for the Dynamic Y ield business.
Conventional Franchise
Under a conventional franchise arrangement, the Company generally owns or secures a long-term lease on the land and building for the
restaurant location and the franchisee pays for equipment, signs, seating and décor . The Company believes that ownership of real estate,
combined with the co-investment by franchisees, enables us to achieve restaurant performance levels that are among the highest in the industry .
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 3
Franchisees are also responsible for reinvesting capital in their businesses over time. In addition, to accelerate implementation of certain
initiatives, the Company may co-invest with franchisees to fund improvements to their restaurants or their operating systems. These investments,
developed in collaboration with franchisees, are designed to cater to consumer preferences, improve local business performance, and increase
the value of our brand through the development of modernized, more attractive and higher revenue generating restaurants.
The Company requires franchisees to meet rigorous standards and generally does not work with passive investors. The business
relationship with franchisees is designed to facilitate consistency and high quality at all McDonald’ s restaurants. Conventional franchisees
contribute to the Company’ s revenue, primarily through the payment of rent and royalties based upon a percent of sales, with specified minimum
rent payments, along with initial fees paid upon the opening of a new restaurant or grant of a new franchise. The Company's heavily franchised
business model is designed to generate stable and predictable revenue, which is largely a function of franchisee sales, and resulting cash flow
streams. As most revenues are based on a percent of sales, the Company expects that consumer sentiment and government regulations as a
result of COVID-19 may continue to have a negative impact on revenue in the near term.
Developmental License or Affiliate
Under a developmental license or af filiate arrangement, licensees are responsible for operating and managing the business, providing capital
(including the real estate interest) and developing and opening new restaurants. The Company generally does not invest any capital under a
developmental license or af filiate arrangement, and it receives a royalty based on a percent of sales, and generally receives initial fees upon the
opening of a new restaurant or grant of a new license.
While developmental license and af filiate arrangements are largely the same, af filiate arrangements are used in a limited number of foreign
markets (primarily China and Japan) within the International Developmental Licensed Markets segment and a limited number of individual
restaurants within the International Operated Markets segment, where the Company also has an equity investment and records its share of net
results in Equity in earnings of unconsolidated af filiates.
As both royalty revenues and the Company's share of net results in equity investments are based on sales results, the Company may
continue to experience a negative impact to revenues and Equity in earnings of unconsolidated af filiates as a result of COVID-19 in the near
term.
•Supply chain, food safety, and quality
The Company and its franchisees purchase food, packaging, equipment, and other goods from numerous independent suppliers. The Company
has established and enforces high food safety and quality standards. The Company has quality centers around the world designed to promote
consistency of its high standards. The quality management systems and processes not only involve ongoing product reviews, but also on-site and
virtual supplier visits. A Food Safety Advisory Council, composed of the Company’ s internal food safety experts, as well as suppliers and outside
academia, provides strategic global leadership for all aspects of food safety . We have ongoing programs to educate employees about food safety
practices, and our suppliers and restaurant operators participate in food safety trainings where we share best practices on food safety and quality .
In addition, the Company works closely with suppliers to encourage innovation and drive continuous improvement. Leveraging scale, supply
chain infrastructure and risk management strategies, the Company also collaborates with suppliers toward a goal of achieving competitive,
predictable food and paper costs over the long term.
Independently owned and operated distribution centers, approved by the Company , distribute products and supplies to McDonald’ s
restaurants. In addition, restaurant personnel are trained in the proper storage, handling and preparation of food for customers.
As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company implemented a framework called Safety+ for enhanced hygiene and safety standards
to help re-enforce customer and crew safety . Additionally , the Company worked closely with suppliers on contingency planning for continuous
supply so that we were able to continue to operate safe restaurants, and we had no breaks in supply for food, packaging, toys or equipment
globally throughout 2020 due to COVID-19.
•Products
McDonald’ s restaurants of fer a substantially uniform menu, although there are geographic variations to suit local consumer preferences and
tastes.
McDonald’ s menu includes hamburgers and cheeseburgers, Big Mac, Quarter Pounder with Cheese, Filet-O-Fish, several chicken
sandwiches, Chicken McNuggets, wraps, McDonald's Fries, salads, oatmeal, shakes, McFlurry desserts, sundaes, soft serve cones, bakery
items, soft drinks, cof fee, McCafé beverages and other beverages.
McDonald’ s restaurants in the U.S. and many international markets of fer a full or limited breakfast menu. Breakfast of ferings may include
Egg McMuf fin, Sausage McMuf fin with Egg, McGriddles, biscuit and bagel sandwiches, oatmeal, breakfast burritos and hotcakes.
In addition to these menu items, the restaurants sell a variety of other products during limited-time promotions.
Taste, quality , choice, value and nutrition are important to our customers, and we are continuously evolving our menu to meet our customers'
needs, including testing new products on an ongoing basis.
•Marketing
McDonald’ s global brand is well known. Marketing, promotional and public relations activities are designed with customers in mind and are
focused on promoting the McDonald’ s brand and dif ferentiating the Company from its competitors. Marketing and promotional ef forts focus on
value, quality , food taste, menu choice, nutrition, convenience and the customer experience.
•Intellectual property
The Company owns or is licensed to use valuable intellectual property including trademarks, service marks, patents, copyrights, trade secrets
and other proprietary information. The Company considers the "McDonald's" trademark and the Golden Arches Logo to be of material importance
to its business. Depending on the jurisdiction, trademarks and service marks generally are valid as long as they are used and/or registered.
Patents, copyrights and licenses are of varying durations.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 4
•Competition
McDonald’ s restaurants compete with international, national, regional and local retailers of traditional, fast casual and other food service
competitors. The Company competes in the quick-service restaurant industry on the basis of price, convenience, service, experience, menu
variety and product quality in a highly fragmented global restaurant industry .
In measuring the Company’ s competitive position, management reviews data compiled by Euromonitor International, a leading source of
market data with respect to the global restaurant industry . The Company measures itself using the informal eating out ("IEO") segment
information, which is inclusive of the Company’ s primary competition of quick-service restaurants. The IEO segment includes the following
restaurant categories defined by Euromonitor International: limited-service restaurants (which combines quick-service eating establishments and
100% home delivery/takeaway providers), street stalls or kiosks, cafés, specialist cof fee shops, self-service cafeterias and juice/smoothie bars.
The IEO segment excludes establishments that primarily serve alcohol and full-service restaurants other than providers with limited table service.
Based on data from Euromonitor International, the global IEO segment was composed of approximately 9 million outlets and generated $1.2
trillion in annual sales in 2019, the most recent year for which data is available. McDonald’ s Systemwide 2019 restaurant business accounted for
0.4% of those outlets and 8.4% of the sales.
Management also on occasion benchmarks McDonald’ s against the entire restaurant industry , including the IEO segment defined above and
all full-service restaurants. Based on data from Euromonitor International, the restaurant industry was composed of approximately 20 million
outlets and generated $2.6 trillion in annual sales in 2019. McDonald’ s Systemwide restaurant business accounted for 0.2% of those outlets and
3.8% of the sales.
•Environmental matters
The Company prioritizes progress across a range of environmental matters, and endeavors to improve our long-term sustainability and resiliency ,
which benefits McDonald’ s and the communities it serves. The Company monitors environment-related governmental initiatives and consumer
preferences, and while we cannot predict the precise nature of how these may evolve, the Company plans to respond in a timely and appropriate
manner . Although any impact would likely vary by geographic region and/or market, we believe that the adoption of new regulations may increase
costs or operational complexity for the Company .
To guide our management of environmental matters, the Company has developed goals and performance indicators that are updated
periodically on the Company’ s website, informed by relevant frameworks including the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board. These include
goals and initiatives to reduce System greenhouse gas emissions, eliminate deforestation from our global supply chain, responsibly source
ingredients and packaging, and increase the availability of recycling in restaurants to reduce waste, which the Company recognizes are
increasingly important to customers. The Company also discloses the impacts of environmental risks and opportunities in its annual CDP Climate
Change, CDP Forests and CDP W ater reports. In recent years, we have made significant progress on our global commitments where we can
make a dif ference at scale and drive industry-wide change.
Actual or perceived ef fects of changes in climate, weather patterns, water resources, forests or other natural resources, or packaging waste
could have a direct or indirect impact on the operations of the System in ways which we cannot fully predict at this time. The Company will
continue to assess potential risks and opportunities to analyze possible material impacts to the System as we believe taking action on
environmental matters will drive business value in the long-term by ensuring we are managing operational costs in our energy supply , improving
the security of supply of our raw materials and reducing our exposure to increasing environmental risks, regulation and taxes.
•Government regulations
The Company has global operations and is therefore subject to the laws of the United States and multiple foreign jurisdictions in which the
Company operates and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, which may dif fer among jurisdictions. Throughout 2020, there were
various instances around the world of COVID-19 related government restrictions on operating hours, dine-in capacity and in some cases,
mandated full restaurant closures. These government restrictions negatively impacted the Company's revenues. The Company does not believe
that compliance with other current government regulations will have a material ef fect on the Company's capital expenditures, earnings or
competitive position.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 5
•Human capital management
Purpose, Mission, & V alues
Through our size and scale, the Company is embracing and prioritizing our role and commitment to the communities in which we operate through
our:
•Purpose  to feed and foster communities,
•Mission  to create delicious feel-good moments for everyone, and
•Core values  that define who we are and how we run our business.
At McDonald's, we are guided by our five core values:
1.Serve  – We put our customers and people first;
2.Inclusion  – We open our doors to everyone;
3.Integrity  – We do the right thing;
4.Community  – We are good neighbors; and
5.Family  – We get better together .
The Company believes that it is our people, all around the world, who set us apart and bring these values to life on a daily basis.
In addition, the Company’ s people strategies aim to create an environment grounded in diversity , equity and inclusion; continually evaluate
and evolve compensation and benefits programs, while of fering quality training and learning opportunities; and uphold a high standard of health
and safety for employees and customers alike.
We encourage you to read more information within McDonald’ s “Purpose & Impact” section on the Company’ s website that includes
additional information regarding our human capital management and other initiatives and is updated periodically as our strategies evolve. Our
website is not deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, but does provide background for reference.
Our People
The Company’ s employees include those in our corporate and other of fices as well as Company-owned and operated restaurant employees,
totaling approximately 200,000 worldwide as of year-end 2020, of which over 75% are based outside of the U.S. In addition to Company
employees, the over two million individuals who work in our independent Franchisee restaurants globally are critical to the Company’ s success,
enabling us to drive long-term value creation and further our purpose and mission. People are at the cornerstone of our business and an
essential part of the McDonald's System – our owner-operators, our suppliers, and the Company .
Diversity , Equity and Inclusion (“DEI”)
At McDonald’ s, our aspiration is that no matter where you are in the world, when you interact with McDonald’ s, inclusivity and equity are evident.
We believe that a diverse workforce is critical to McDonald’ s success, and we are committed to making this a continued priority for our Company .
Our Board of Directors reflects this commitment as half of the 12 members are women or racially diverse, including the Chairman of the Board.
With this leadership, the Company recently launched a new global DEI strategy designed to drive accountability across the System to better
represent the diverse communities in which McDonald’ s operates, to accelerate cultures of inclusion and belonging, and to further dismantle
barriers to economic opportunity .
The Company’ s enhanced DEI strategy builds on existing initiatives from across the business, including:
•the ongoing initiative to improve the representation of women at all levels of the Company ,
•long-standing work designed to encourage franchisees and suppliers to create greater diversity in their own operations,
•upholding human rights and cultivating a respectful workplace that is ethical, truthful and dependable, and
•our commitment to equitable pay among Company employees with comparable job responsibilities, experience, performance and
contributions.
While McDonald’ s is proud of our more than 65-year history as an employer , we expect our global DEI strategy to represent a step change in
how we view equitable opportunity across our System and we are committed to accelerating the representation, inclusion and opportunity for
historically underrepresented groups throughout our business. Aligned with our purpose, mission and values, this strategy will shape our future as
a leading employer .
Beginning in 2021, the Company is incorporating quantitative human capital management related metrics to annual incentive compensation
for its executives. In addition to the Company’ s financial performance, executives will be measured on their ability to champion our core values,
improve diversity representation within leadership roles for both women and historically underrepresented groups, and create a strong culture of
inclusion within the Company .
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 6
Workplace Health and Safety
McDonald’ s has always focused on protecting the health and safety of our people and our customers. Throughout 2020, in response to the global
COVID-19 pandemic, we have made informed decisions with the guidance from health ministries in most of the countries in which we operate, as
well as the W orld Health Organization. As safety , hygiene and customers’ trust and confidence in our restaurants is critical in this environment,
the Company has established even greater discipline in restaurant operations to meet those needs. McDonald’ s engaged Mayo Clinic, a global
leader in serious and complex healthcare, to provide ongoing counsel and expertise on emerging science in infection prevention and control, and
to identify best practices to mitigate the spread of COVID-19. Over the last year , elevated standards informed by this engagement have been
executed in the majority of McDonald’ s over 39,000 restaurants, including more than 50 process changes in U.S. restaurants. Encompassed in a
framework called Safety+, this ef fort builds on the Company’ s history of safety-first leadership in McDonald’ s restaurants, and supplements the
work of global markets to help keep customers and crew safe.
Respectful W orkplace Environment
Fostering safe, inclusive, and respectful workplaces, wherever we do business, has been integral to the Company for its more than 65 year
history . We understand the importance of providing a positive experience in our of fices and in the restaurants where everyone is valued. In 2018,
we introduced McDonald's Human Rights Policy , which outlines our commitment to respect our people and their rights. Our commitment to
respect human rights is also set out in our Standards of Business Conduct which apply to Company employees, and in our Supplier Code of
Conduct, which contains our human rights requirements for our global suppliers. Company staf f are trained regularly on the Standards and are
required to annually certify their understanding of and commitment to upholding them.
Additionally , we recognize that developing respectful workplaces, where everyone’ s rights are recognized, is an ongoing process that
requires continuous ef fort and improvement. That’ s why we worked with third party experts to strengthen our U.S. discrimination, harassment and
anti-retaliation policy and provide enhanced interactive training for corporate staf f and U.S. Company-owned restaurant employees. W e have
shared this policy and training with our franchisees and encourage them to utilize these tools and resources. W e also recognize how important it
is to provide channels for employees to report human rights concerns. Company employees can raise concerns in many ways, including through
an anonymous global channel, the Business Integrity Line – staf fed by a live operator from an independent company – 24 hours a day , 365 days
a year . This is complemented by additional reporting channels in many markets. W e expect our employees and franchisees to uphold human
rights and cultivate respectful workplaces which builds trust, protects the integrity of our brand and fuels our success.
Compensation, Benefits, and T alent Development
The compensation and benefits provided to U.S. and internationally-based Company employees, including both corporate staf f and Company-
owned restaurant employees, is established based upon competitive considerations in the relevant labor market. The amount and type of
compensation varies by level of employee as well as their location, and may include some combination of the following (in addition to base pay):
cash bonuses, stock-based awards, retirement savings programs, and health and welfare benefits. In addition, Company employees may receive
paid time of f, family care resources, tuition assistance and flexible work schedules. In 2020, the Company placed a significant emphasis on
wellbeing globally , deploying a multitude of new benefits focused on the physical, financial and mental health of our employees. For example, in
the U.S., these enhancements included the introduction of new Emotional W ellbeing and Employee Assistance programs.
McDonald’ s has a long-standing commitment to provide training, education benefits and career paths, which empower people and the
communities we serve. McDonald’ s is committed to providing opportunities for people to enhance their skills and fulfill their potential through
talent development programs, apprenticeship opportunities, language and technical skill training, and by supporting continuing education. W e
believe this helps to facilitate talent attraction, career development and retention. Further , McDonald’ s Hamburger University has eight campuses
around the world to provide training for Company employees as well as franchisees and eligible employees from their organizations. These are
just a few examples of how education plays an important role in our business and our communities.
Communities
The Company embraces our role and commitment to the communities we serve. Throughout the past year , McDonald’ s rallied together with our
suppliers, franchisees and partners, not just to keep restaurants open and running safely , but also to support our communities and first
responders as seen through our donations of food and masks. Through the Company’ s Youth Opportunity program, we aim to reduce barriers to
employment for many at risk young people, through pre-employment job readiness training, employment opportunities, and workplace
development programs. W e are also proud of the network of over 260 local Chapters of Ronald McDonald House Charities (“RMHC”) spanning
over 60 countries and regions that creates, finds and supports programs that directly improve the health and well-being of children and their
families. In support of RMHC, in 2020, the Company announced our five-year commitment to RMHC totaling $100 million. The Company will
continue to look for ways to utilize our size and scale to create an even bigger impact in the communities we serve in the future.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 7
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANAL YSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESUL TS OF
OPERA TIONS
MANAGEMENT'S VIEW OF THE BUSINESS
In analyzing business trends, management reviews results on a constant currency basis and considers a variety of performance and financial
measures which are considered to be non-GAAP , including comparable sales and comparable guest count growth, Systemwide sales growth,
after-tax return on invested capital from continuing operations, free cash flow and free cash flow conversion rate, as described below .
Management believes these measures are important in understanding the financial performance of the Company .
•Constant currency results exclude the ef fects of foreign currency translation and are calculated by translating current year results at prior
year average exchange rates. Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the ef fect of foreign currency translation,
impairment and other strategic charges and gains, as well as income tax provision adjustments related to the T ax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017
(“Tax Act”), and bases incentive compensation plans on these results, because the Company believes this better represents underlying
business trends.
•Comparable sales are compared to the same period in the prior year and represent sales at all restaurants, whether operated by the
Company or by franchisees, in operation at least thirteen months including those temporarily closed. Some of the reasons restaurants may
be temporarily closed include reimaging or remodeling, rebuilding, road construction and natural disasters (including restaurants temporarily
closed due to COVID-19 in 2020). Comparable sales exclude the impact of currency translation and the sales of any market considered
hyper-inflationary (generally identified as those markets whose cumulative inflation rate over a three-year period exceeds 100%), which
management believes more accurately reflects the underlying business trends. Comparable sales are driven by changes in guest counts
and average check, which is af fected by changes in pricing and product mix.
•Comparable guest counts represent the number of transactions at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees, in
operation at least thirteen months including those temporarily closed.
•Systemwide sales include sales at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees. While franchised sales are not
recorded as revenues by the Company , management believes the information is important in understanding the Company's financial
performance, because these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised revenues and are indicative of
the financial health of the franchisee base. The Company's revenues consist solely of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees
from franchised restaurants operated by conventional franchisees, developmental licensees and af filiates. Changes in Systemwide sales are
primarily driven by comparable sales and net restaurant unit expansion.
•The Company’ s after-tax return on invested capital ("ROIC") from continuing operations is a metric that management believes measures our
capital-allocation ef fectiveness over time. Other companies may calculate ROIC dif ferently , limiting the usefulness of the measure for
comparisons with other companies. Refer to the reconciliation in Exhibit 12 for further information on the Company's calculation of ROIC.
•Free cash flow , defined as cash provided by operations less capital expenditures, and free cash flow conversion rate, defined as free cash
flow divided by net income, are measures reviewed by management in order to evaluate the Company’ s ability to convert net profits into
cash resources, after reinvesting in the core business, that can be used to pursue opportunities to enhance shareholder value. Refer to the
reconciliations in Exhibit 12 for further information on the Company's calculations of free cash flow and free cash flow conversion rate.
2020 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
In 2020, global comparable sales decreased 7.7% primarily as a result of COVID-19. Comparable guest counts were negative across all
segments for the year .
•Comparable sales in the U.S. increased 0.4% benefiting from strong average check growth and positive comparable sales primarily at the
dinner daypart. The Company's strategic marketing investments and promotional activity , along with growth in delivery , had a positive impact
on comparable sales in the second half of 2020.
•Comparable sales in the International Operated segment decreased 15.0% reflecting negative comparable sales in most markets as a result
of COVID-19. The comparable sales decline was primarily driven by France, the U.K., Germany , Italy and Spain, partly of fset by positive
results in Australia.
•Comparable sales in the International Developmental Licensed segment decreased 10.5% reflecting negative comparable sales primarily in
Latin America and Asia, partly of fset by strong comparable sales in Japan.
In addition to the comparable sales results, the Company had the following financial results in 2020:
•Consolidated revenues decreased 10% (10% in constant currencies).
•Systemwide sales decreased 7% (7% in constant currencies).
•Consolidated operating income decreased 19% (20% in constant currencies) and included $268 million of net strategic gains. Excluding
these gains, operating income decreased 23% (23% in constant currencies), when also excluding $74 million of net strategic charges from
the prior year . Refer to the Operating Income section on  page 17  for additional details.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 8
•Operating margin, defined as operating income as a percent of total revenues, decreased from 42.5% in 2019 to 38.1% in 2020. Excluding
the items referenced in the previous bullet point, operating margin decreased from 42.8% in 2019 to 36.7% in 2020.
•Diluted earnings per share of $6.31 decreased 20% (20% in constant currencies). Refer to the Net Income and Diluted Earnings Per Share
section on page 12 for additional details.
•Cash provided by operations was $6.27 billion.
•Capital expenditures of $1.64 billion were allocated mainly to reinvestment in existing restaurants and, to a lesser extent, to new restaurant
openings.
•Free cash flow was $4.62 billion, a 19% decrease from the prior year .
•Across the System, nearly 1,000 restaurants (including those in our developmental licensee and af filiated markets) were opened.
•The Company increased its quarterly cash dividend per share by 3% to $1.29 for the fourth quarter , equivalent to an annual dividend of
$5.16 per share.
STRATEGIC DIRECTION
In 2020, the Company announced a new growth strategy , Accelerating the Arches (the “Strategy”). The Strategy encompasses all aspects of
McDonald’ s business as the leading global omni-channel restaurant brand, and includes a refreshed purpose, updated values, and new growth
pillars that build on the Company’ s competitive advantages.
Purpose, Mission, & V alues
The Company is embracing and prioritizing its role and commitments to the communities in which it operates through our:
•Purpose  to feed and foster communities,
•Mission  to create delicious feel-good moments for everyone, and
•Core values  that define who we are and how we run our business.
Growth Pillars
The new growth pillars, rooted in the Company’ s identity , MCD, build on historic strengths and articulate areas of further opportunity . Under the
Strategy , the Company will:
•Maximize our Marketing  by investing in new , culturally relevant approaches to ef fectively communicate the story of our brand, food and
purpose. This will focus on enhanced digital capabilities that provide a more personal connection with customers. The Company is also
committed to a marketing strategy that highlights value at every tier of the menu, as af fordability remains a cornerstone of the McDonald’ s
brand.
•Commit to the Core  by tapping into customer demand for the familiar and focusing on serving delicious burgers, chicken and cof fee. The
Company will prioritize chicken and beef of ferings as we expect they represent the largest growth opportunities. The Company expects there
is significant opportunity to expand its chicken of ferings by leveraging line extensions of customer favorites. In addition, the Company plans
to introduce a new Crispy Chicken Sandwich in the U.S. at the end of February . The Company will also implement a series of operational
and formulation changes designed to improve upon the great taste of our burgers. W e also see a significant opportunity with cof fee, and
markets will leverage the McCafe brand, experience, value and quality to drive long-term growth.
•Double Down on the 3D's: Digital, Delivery and Drive Thru  by leveraging competitive strengths and building a powerful digital experience
growth engine that provides a fast, easy experience for our customers. T o unlock further growth, the Company will accelerate technology
innovation so that when customers interact with McDonald’ s, they can enjoy a fast, easy experience that meets their needs.
◦Digital:  The Company’ s new digital experience growth engine, “MyMcDonald’ s” will transform its digital of ferings across drive thru,
takeaway , delivery , curbside pick-up and dine-in. Through the digital tools across this platform, customers will receive tailored of fers, be
able to participate in a new loyalty program and order and receive McDonald's food through the channel of their choice. The Company
expects to have elements of “MyMcDonald’ s” across its top six markets by the end of 2021, featuring loyalty programs in several of
those markets, including a U.S. loyalty launch later in 2021. Across these top six markets, digital sales exceeded $10 billion or nearly
20% of Systemwide sales in 2020.
◦Delivery:  Over the past three years, the Company has expanded the number of McDonald’ s restaurants of fering delivery to nearly
30,000 restaurants, and delivery sales have grown significantly . The Company will build on this progress and enhance the delivery
experience for customers by adding the ability to order on the McDonald’ s app, which is already available in several markets around
the world, and optimizing operations with a focus on speed and accuracy .
◦Drive Thru:  The Company has drive thru locations in over 25,000 restaurants globally , including nearly 95% of the over 13,000
locations in the U.S. During the COVID-19 pandemic, this channel has heightened importance and we expect that it will become even
more critical to meet customers’ demand for flexibility and choice. The Company will build on its drive thru advantage as the vast
majority of new restaurant openings in the U.S. and International Operated Markets will include a drive thru. The Company will test new
concepts and technology to enhance the customer experience, including automated order taking; a new drive thru express pick-up lane
for customers with a digital order; and a restaurant concept that of fers drive thru, delivery and takeaway only to provide a faster , more
convenient experience.
The Company’ s Strategy is underpinned by a relentless focus on running great restaurants, including improving speed of service to address
customer needs. The Company believes this Strategy will build on our inherent strengths by harnessing our competitive advantages and
investing in innovations that will enhance the customer experience and deliver long-term growth.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 9
OUTLOOK
2021 Outlook
Based on current conditions, the following information is provided to assist in forecasting the Company's future results for 2021.
•The Company expects 2021 Systemwide sales growth, in constant currencies, in the low double digits, and expects net restaurant unit
expansion to contribute about 1% to 2021 Systemwide sales growth.
•The Company expects operating margin percent to be in the low-to-mid 40% range.
•The Company expects full year 2021 selling, general and administrative expenses of approximately 2.3% of Systemwide sales, reflecting a
decrease of about 2% to 4% in constant currencies.
•Based on current interest and foreign currency exchange rates, the Company expects interest expense for the full year 2021 to decrease
about 1% to 3% due primarily to lower average debt balances as the Company expects to pay down current debt levels to return to pre-
COVID-19 leverage ratios.
•The Company expects the ef fective income tax rate for the full year 2021 to be in the 21% to 23% range. Some volatility may result in a
quarterly tax rate outside of the annual range.
•The Company expects 2021 capital expenditures to be approximately $2.3 billion, about half of which will be directed towards new unit
expansion across the U.S. and International Operated Markets.
In 2021, about $1.1 billion will be dedicated to our U.S. business, about $500 million of which will be allocated to approximately 1,200
restaurant modernization projects. Globally , the Company expects to open over 1,300 restaurants. W e will open nearly 500 restaurants in
the U.S. and International Operated Markets segments, and our developmental licensee and af filiates will contribute capital towards over
800 restaurant openings in their respective markets. Additionally , the U.S. expects to close roughly 325 restaurants in 2021; a majority of
which are lower sales volume McDonald's in W almart locations. The Company expects about 650 net restaurant additions in 2021.
•The Company expects to achieve a free cash flow conversion rate greater than 90%.
2022 Outlook
The Company has provided a 2022 outlook that is detailed in its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2020.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 10
CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included on pages 38
through 59 of this Form 10-K. This section generally discusses 2020 and 2019 items and the year-to-year comparisons between the year ended
December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. Discussions of 2018 items and the year-to-year comparisons between the
year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 are not included in this Form 10-K and can be found in the
“Management’ s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section of the Company’ s Annual Report on Form 10-
K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 26, 2020.
Operating results
2020 2019 2018
Dollars and shares in millions, except per share data AmountIncrease/
(decrease) AmountIncrease/
(decrease) Amount
Revenues
Sales by Company-operated restaurants $8,139  (14 %) $9,421 (6 %) $10,013 
Revenues from franchised restaurants 10,726  (8) 11,656 6 11,012 
Other revenues 343 19 288 24 233 
Total revenues 19,208  (10) 21,365 1 21,258 
Operating costs and expenses
Company-operated restaurant expenses 6,981  (10) 7,761 (6) 8,266 
Franchised restaurants-occupancy expenses 2,208  0 2,201 12 1,973 
Other restaurant expenses 267 19 224 20 186 
Selling, general & administrative expenses
Depreciation and amortization 301 14 262 22 215 
Other 2,245  14 1,967 (1) 1,985 
Other operating (income) expense, net (118) 2 (120) 37 (190)
Total operating costs and expenses 11,884  (3) 12,295 (1) 12,435 
Operating income 7,324  (19) 9,070 3 8,823 
Interest expense 1,218  9 1,122 14 981 
Nonoperating (income) expense, net (35) 50 (70) n/m 26 
Income before provision for income taxes 6,141  (23) 8,018 3 7,816 
Provision for income taxes 1,410  (29) 1,993 5 1,892 
Net income $4,731  (21 %) $6,025 2 % $5,924 
Earnings per common share—diluted $6.31 (20 %) $7.88 5 % $ 7.54 
Weighted-average common shares outstanding
—
diluted 750.1  (2 %) 764.9 (3 %) 785.6 
n/m Not meaningful
IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION ON REPORTED RESULTS
While changes in foreign currency exchange rates af fect reported results, McDonald’ s mitigates exposures, where practical, by purchasing goods
and services in local currencies, financing in local currencies and hedging certain foreign-denominated cash flows.
Impact of foreign currency translation on reported results
   Reported amountCurrency translation
benefit/(cost)
In millions, except per share data 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Revenues $19,208  $21,365 $21,258 $ (75) $(610) $ 124 
Company-operated margins 1,158  1,660 1,747 (1) (51) 4 
Franchised margins 8,519  9,455 9,039 32 (256) 57 
Selling, general & administrative expenses 2,546  2,229 2,200 (2) 29 (13)
Operating income 7,324  9,070 8,823 35 (280) 56 
Net income 4,731  6,025 5,924 26 (165) 33 
Earnings per common share—diluted 6.31 7.88 7.54 0.04 (0.21) 0.04 
 
In 2020, results primarily reflected the strengthening of the Euro and British Pound, partly of fset by the weakening of the Brazilian Real. In 2019,
results reflected the weakening of the Euro and most other major currencies.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 11
NET INCOME AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE
In 2020, net income decreased 21% (22% in constant currencies) to $4.7 billion and diluted earnings per common share decreased 20% (20% in
constant currencies) to $6.31. Foreign currency translation had a positive impact of $0.04 on diluted earnings per share.
Results in 2020 reflected sales declines in the International Operated Markets and International Developmental Licensed Markets segments
as a result of COVID-19.
Results in 2020 also included the following:
•Higher Selling, General and Administrative Expenses reflecting:
◦$100 million for the Company's five year commitment to Ronald McDonald House Charities;
◦one-time investments in renewed brand communications as part of the “Serving Here” campaign launch that was announced
with the new growth strategy , Accelerating the Arches ; and
◦partly of fset by lower incentive-based compensation expense.
•Over $200 million of incremental franchisee support for the year for marketing to accelerate recovery and drive growth across the U.S.
and International Operated Markets, a majority of which was recorded in Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.
◦About $100 million was recorded in the U.S. and the remaining support was recorded in the International Operated Markets
segment.
•Higher restaurant closing costs of $68 million in both the International Operated Markets and in the U.S. The U.S. costs were primarily
related to planned closings of McDonald’ s in W almart locations.
•Lower gains on sales of restaurant businesses.
•An increase of reserves for bad debts of $58 million related to rent and royalty deferrals.
Outlined below is additional information for the full year 2020, 2019, and 2018:
Diluted Earnings Per Common Share Reconciliation
 Amount Increase/(decrease)Increase/(decrease) 
 excluding currency 
 translation
2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2020 2019
GAAP earnings per share-diluted $ 6.31 $ 7.88 $ 7.54 (20 %) 5 % (20 %) 7 %
Strategic (gains) charges (0.26) 0.07 0.26 
Income tax (benefit) cost, net — (0.11) 0.10 
Non-GAAP earnings per share-diluted $ 6.05 $ 7.84 $ 7.90 (23) % (1)% (23) % 2 %
2020 results included:
◦net pre-tax strategic gains of $268 million, or $0.26 per share, primarily related to the sale of McDonald's Japan stock, which
reduced the Company's ownership by about 6%.
2019 results included:
◦$84 million, or $0.11 per share, of income tax benefit due to regulations issued in the fourth quarter 2019 related to the T ax Act.
◦net pre-tax strategic charges of $74 million, or $0.07 per share, primarily related to impairment associated with the purchase of our
joint venture partner's interest in the India Delhi market, partly of fset by gains on the sales of property at the former Corporate
headquarters.
2018 results included:
◦net tax cost of $75 million, or $0.10 per share, associated with the final 2018 adjustments to the provisional amounts recorded in
December 2017 under the T ax Act.
◦$234 million, or $0.26 per share, of pre-tax strategic impairment and restructuring charges.
Excluding the above 2020 and 2019 items, 2020 net income decreased 24% (25% in constant currencies), and diluted earnings per share
decreased 23% (23% in constant currencies).
Diluted earnings per share for 2020 and 2019 benefited from a decrease in diluted weighted average shares outstanding. In early March
2020, the Company suspended its share repurchase program. The Company repurchased 4.3 million shares of its stock for $874 million in 2020
and 25.0 million shares of its stock for $5 billion in 2019.
RESTAURANT UPDATE
The Company has continued to follow the guidance of expert health authorities to ensure the appropriate precautionary steps are taken to protect
the health and safety of our people and our customers.
As a result of COVID-19, throughout 2020, there have been numerous instances of government restrictions on restaurant operating hours,
limited dine-in capacity in most countries and, in some cases, mandated dining room closures particularly in the International Operated Markets.
These restrictions, which have carried into 2021, are impacting most of the Company's key markets outside of the U.S., particularly those with
fewer drive thru restaurant locations. The Company expects some restrictions in various markets so long as the COVID-19 pandemic continues.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 12
REVENUES
The Company's revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees, developmental
licensees and af filiates. Revenues from conventional franchised restaurants include rent and royalties based on a percent of sales with minimum
rent payments, and initial fees. Revenues from restaurants licensed to developmental licensees and af filiates include a royalty based on a
percent of sales, and generally include initial fees. The Company’ s Other revenues are comprised of fees paid by franchisees to recover a portion
of costs incurred by the Company for various technology platforms, revenues from brand licensing arrangements to market and sell consumer
packaged goods using the McDonald’ s brand, and third party revenues for the Dynamic Y ield business.
Franchised restaurants represented 93% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide at December 31, 2020. The Company's heavily franchised
business model is designed to generate stable and predictable revenue, which is largely a function of franchisee sales and resulting cash flow
streams. As most revenues are based on a percent of sales, the Company expects that government regulations as a result of COVID-19
resurgences will continue to have a negative impact on revenue in the near term.
Revenues
 Amount Increase/(decrease)Increase/(decrease) 
 excluding currency 
translation
Dollars in millions 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2020 2019
Company-operated sales:
U.S. $2,395  $2,490 $2,665 (4 %) (7 %) (4 %) (7 %)
International Operated Markets 5,114  6,334 6,668 (19) (5) (18) (1)
International Developmental Licensed Markets &
Corporate 630 597 680 6 (12) 7 (7)
Total $8,139  $9,421 $10,013 (14 %) (6 %) (12 %) (3 %)
Franchised revenues:
U.S. $5,261  $5,353 $5,001 (2 %) 7 % (2 %) 7 %
International Operated Markets 4,348  5,064 4,839 (14) 5 (15) 10 
International Developmental Licensed Markets &
Corporate 1,117  1,239 1,172 (10) 6 (8) 10 
Total $10,726  $11,656 $11,012 (8 %) 6 % (8 %) 9 %
Total Company-operated sales and Franchised
revenues:
U.S. $7,656  $7,843 $7,666 (2 %) 2 % (2 %) 2 %
International Operated Markets 9,462  11,398 11,507 (17) (1) (17) 4 
International Developmental Licensed Markets &
Corporate 1,747  1,836 1,852 (5) (1) (3) 4 
Total $18,865  $21,077 $21,025 (10 %) 0 % (10 %) 3 %
Total Other revenues $ 343 $ 288 $ 233 19 % 24 % 19 % 25 %
Total Revenues $19,208  $21,365 $21,258 (10 %) 1 % (10 %) 3 %
In 2020, total Company-operated sales and franchised revenues decreased 10% (10% in constant currencies), primarily reflecting sales
declines in the International Operated Markets segment as a result of COVID-19. Results also reflected positive sales performance in the U.S.,
which was more than of fset by support provided for marketing, through incentives to franchisees, to accelerate recovery and drive growth,
including the free Thank Y ou Meals served across the country to first responders and health care workers.
Revenue declines were more significant in the International Operated Markets segment, driven by the temporary restaurant closures and
limited operations. While performance was mixed, the ability of each market to drive sales and revenue growth is also impacted by the number of
drive thru restaurant locations. The revenue declines were driven by the U.K., France, Germany , Italy and Spain.
TOTAL REVENUES BY SEGMENT
U.S.
International Operated Markets
International Developmental Licensed Markets & Corporate
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 13
The following tables present comparable sales and Systemwide sales increases/(decreases):
Comparable sales increases/(decreases)
 2020 2019 2018
U.S. 0.4 % 5.0 % 2.5 %
International Operated Markets (15.0) 6.1 6.1 
International Developmental Licensed Markets & Corporate (10.5) 7.2 5.6 
Total (7.7 %) 5.9 % 4.5 %
    
Systemwide sales increases/(decreases)*
 Increase/(decrease) 
 excluding currency 
 translation
2020 2019 2020 2019
U.S. 0 % 5 % 0 % 5 %
International Operated Markets (13) 3 (14) 8 
International Developmental Licensed Markets & Corporate (10) 5 (8) 10 
Total (7 %) 4 % (7 %) 7 %
    * Unlike comparable sales, the Company has not excluded hyper-inflationary market results from Systemwide sales as these sales are the basis on which the
Company calculates and records revenues.
Franchised sales are not recorded as revenues by the Company , but are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised
revenues and are indicative of the financial health of the franchisee base. The following table presents franchised sales and the related
increases/(decreases):
Franchised sales
Amount Increase/(decrease)Increase/(decrease) 
 excluding currency 
 translation
Dollars in millions 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2020 2019
U.S. $38,123  $37,923 $35,860 1 % 6 % 1 % 6 %
International Operated Markets 25,446  28,853 27,557 (12) 5 (13) 10 
International Developmental Licensed Markets &
Corporate 21,609  23,981 22,717 (10) 6 (8) 10 
Total $85,178  $90,757 $86,134 (6 %) 5 % (6 %) 8 %
Ownership type
Conventional franchised $63,297  $66,415 $63,251 (5) 5 % (5)% 7 %
Developmental licensed 11,781  14,392 13,519 (18) 6 (14) 13 
Foreign af filiated 10,100  9,950 9,364 2 6 0 7 
Total $85,178  $90,757 $86,134 (6 %) 5 % (6 %) 8 %
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 14
RESTAURANT MARGINS
Restaurant margins
 Amount Increase/(decrease)Increase/(decrease) excluding
currency translation
Dollars in millions 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2020 2019
Franchised:
U.S. $4,097  $4,227 $4,070 (3 %) 4 % (3 %) 4 %
International Operated Markets 3,329  4,018 3,829 (17) 5 (19) 10 
International Developmental Licensed Markets
& Corporate1,093  1,210 1,140 (10) 6 (8) 11 
Total $8,519  $9,455 $9,039 (10 %) 5 % (10 %) 7 %
Company-operated:
U.S. $ 405 $ 388 $ 397 4 % (2 %) 4 % (2 %)
International Operated Markets 748 1,266 1,327 (41) (5) (41) (1)
International Developmental Licensed Markets
& Corporaten/m n/m n/m n/m n/m n/m n/m
Total $1,158  $1,660 $1,747 (30 %) (5 %) (30 %) (2 %)
Total restaurant margins:
U.S. $4,502  $4,615 $4,467 (2 %) 3 % (2 %) 3 %
International Operated Markets 4,077  5,284 5,156 (23) 2 (24) 7 
International Developmental Licensed Markets
& Corporaten/m n/m n/m n/m n/m n/m n/m
Total $9,677  $11,115 $10,786 (13 %) 3 % (13 %) 6 %
n/m Not meaningful
In 2020, total restaurant margins decreased 13% (13% in constant currencies), which reflected sales declines in the International Operated
Markets segment as a result of COVID-19, partly of fset by positive sales performance in the U.S.
Franchised margins represented over 85% of restaurant margin dollars.
Franchised margins in the U.S. reflected higher depreciation costs related to investments in Experience of the Future ("EOTF"), as well as
support provided for marketing to accelerate recovery and drive growth, including the free Thank Y ou Meals served across the country to first
responders and health care workers.
Company-operated margins in the U.S. and International Operated Markets segments reflected incremental COVID-19 expenses incurred for
employee related costs, personal protective equipment, and signage and other restaurant costs.
Due to the nature of our operating model, franchised margin expenses (primarily comprised of lease expense and depreciation expense) are
mainly fixed, whereas Company-operated restaurant expenses have more variable cost components. T otal restaurant margins included $1,452
million of depreciation and amortization expenses in 2020.
RESTAURANT MARGINS BY TYPE (In millions)
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 15
SELLING, GENERAL & ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
Selling, general & administrative expenses
 Amount Increase/(decrease)Increase/(decrease) 
 excluding currency 
 translation
Dollars in millions 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2020 2019
U.S. $625 $587 $591 7 % (1 %) 7 % (1 %)
International Operated Markets
 700 629 641 11 (2) 11 3 
International Developmental Licensed Markets &
Corporate 1,221  1,013 968 20 5 20 5 
Total Selling, General & Administrative Expenses $2,546  $2,229 $2,200 14 % 1 % 14 % 3 %
Less: Incentive-Based Compensation 158 289 284 (45 %) 2 % (45 %) 3 %
Total Excluding Incentive-Based Compensation $2,388  $1,940 $1,916 23 % 1 % 23 % 3 %
(1) Included in International Developmental Licensed Markets & Corporate are home office support costs in areas such as facilities, finance, human resources, investments
in strategic technology initiatives, legal, marketing, restaurant operations, supply chain and training.
(2) Includes all cash incentives and share-based compensation expense.
In 2020, consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses increased 14% (14% in constant currencies). The results reflected about $175
million of incremental marketing contributions by the Company to the System's advertising cooperative arrangements across the U.S. and
International Operated Markets to accelerate recovery and drive growth; the Company's five year commitment totaling $100 million to RMHC;
one-time investments in renewed brand communications as part of the “Serving Here” campaign launch that was announced with the new growth
strategy , Accelerating the Arches ; and higher investments in strategic technology initiatives. These results were partly of fset by lower incentive-
based compensation expense and travel costs.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of Systemwide sales was 2.7% in 2020, 2.2% in 2019 and 2.3% in 2018.
Management believes that analyzing selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of Systemwide sales is meaningful because these
costs are incurred to support the overall McDonald's business.
OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Other operating (income) expense, net
In millions 2020 2019 2018
Gains on sales of restaurant businesses $ (23) $(127) $(304)
Equity in earnings of unconsolidated af filiates (117) (154) (152)
Asset dispositions and other (income) expense, net 290 87 34 
Impairment and other charges (gains), net (268) 74 232 
Total $(118) $(120) $(190)
•Gains on sales of restaurant businesses
In 2020, gains on sales of restaurant businesses decreased primarily due to fewer restaurant sales primarily in the U.K. and the U.S.
•Equity in earnings of unconsolidated af filiates
In 2020, equity in earnings of unconsolidated af filiates declined primarily due to sales declines as a result of COVID-19 in both the International
Operated Markets and International Developmental Licensed Markets.
•Asset dispositions and other (income) expense, net
Asset dispositions and other expense, net reflected $68 million of restaurant closing costs in both the International Operated Markets and in the
U.S. The U.S. costs were primarily related to planned closings of McDonald's in W almart locations.
Results also reflected an increase of reserves for bad debts of $58 million, related to rent and royalty deferrals; $31 million of payments to
distribution centers for obsolete inventory to support franchisee liquidity; and litigation settlements.
•Impairment and other charges (gains), net
In 2020, impairment and other charges (gains), net reflected $274 million of pre-tax strategic gains related to the sale of McDonald's Japan stock,
which reduced the Company's ownership by about 6% for the year . Results also reflected the write-of f of impaired software that was no longer
being used of $26 million, partly of fset by $13 million of income primarily comprised of a reversal of a reserve associated with the Company's sale
of its business in the India Delhi market in January 2020.
The results in 2019 reflected $99 million of impairment associated with the purchase of our joint venture partner's interest in the India Delhi
market, partly of fset by $20 million of gains on the sales of property at the former Corporate headquarters.
The results in 2018 reflected $140 million of impairment charges and $85 million of strategic restructuring charges in the U.S.(1)
(2)
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 16
OPERATING INCOME
Operating income
 Amount Increase/(decrease)Increase/(decrease)
excluding currency
translation
Dollars in millions 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2020 2019
U.S. $3,789  $4,069 $4,016 (7 %) 1 % (7 %) 1 %
International Operated Markets 3,315  4,789 4,643 (31) 3 (32) 8 
International Developmental Licensed Markets
& Corporate 220 212 164 4 29 12 59 
Total $7,324  $9,070 $8,823 (19 %) 3 % (20 %) 6 %
Operating margin 38.1 % 42.5 % 41.5 %
Non-GAAP operating margin 36.7 % 42.8 % 42.6 %
•Operating Income:  Operating income decreased 19% (20% in constant currencies). Results for 2020 included $268 million of net strategic
gains primarily related to the sale of McDonald's Japan stock, and results for 2019 included $74 million of net strategic charges. Excluding
these current year and prior year items, operating income decreased 23% (23% in constant currencies) for 2020.
•U.S.:  The operating income decrease reflected positive sales performance, which was more than of fset by about $100 million of
support for marketing to accelerate recovery and drive growth; EOTF depreciation; a comparison to a prior year gain on the sale of
real estate; lower gains on sales of restaurant businesses; and higher restaurant closing costs, primarily related to planned closings
of McDonald's in W almart locations.
•International Operated Markets:  The operating income decrease reflected sales declines as a result of COVID-19; over $100
million of support for marketing to accelerate recovery and drive growth; incremental COVID-19 Company-operated expenses
primarily for employee related costs; lower gains on sales of restaurant businesses primarily in the U.K.; higher restaurant closing
costs; lower equity in earnings from unconsolidated af filiates; and $23 million of payments to distribution centers for obsolete
inventory .
•International Developmental Licensed Markets & Corporate: Excluding the current year and prior year strategic gains and
charges described above, the results primarily reflected higher G&A due to the Company's five year commitment totaling $100
million to RMHC as well as one-time investments in renewed brand communications.
OPERATING INCOME BY SEGMENT*
U.S.
International Operated Markets
International Developmental Licensed Markets & Corporate*
*The IDL segment excludes Corporate activities, which is a Non-GAAP metric.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 17
•Operating margin: Operating margin is defined as operating income as a percent of total revenues. The contributions to operating margin
differ by segment due to each segment's ownership structure, primarily due to the relative percentage of franchised versus Company-
operated restaurants. Additionally , the number of temporary restaurant closures, which varies by segment, as a result of COVID-19, also
impacts the contribution of each segment to the consolidated operating margin.
The decrease in operating margin percent for 2020 was driven by a decline in sales, higher other operating expenses and higher G&A. While
the sales-driven franchised margin decline had a dilutive ef fect on operating margin percent, franchised margin dollars represented over 85%
of overall margin dollars and were a key component of operating income.
OPERATING MARGIN PERCENT ROLL-FORWARD*
Operating margin Increase Decrease
*The operating margin roll-forward excludes the strategic gains and charges previously described.
INTEREST EXPENSE
Interest expense increased 9% (8% in constant currencies) and 14% (16% in constant currencies) in 2020 and 2019, respectively . Results in
2020 reflected higher average debt balances, partly of fset by a decrease in the amount of Euro denominated deposits incurring interest expense
as a result of the Company's cash management strategies.
NONOPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Nonoperating (income) expense, net
In millions 2020 2019 2018
Interest income $ (18) $ (37) $ (4)
Foreign currency and hedging activity (3) (48) 5 
Other expense (14) 15 25 
Total $ (35) $ (70) $ 26 
Foreign currency and hedging activity includes net gains or losses on certain hedges that reduce the exposure to variability on certain
intercompany foreign currency cash flow streams.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 18
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
In 2020, 2019 and 2018 the reported ef fective income tax rates were 23.0%, 24.9% and 24.2%, respectively .
Results for 2020 included $50 million of income tax benefits due to new U.S. tax regulations and $48 million of income tax benefits related to
the impact of a tax rate change in the U.K.
The ef fective income tax rate for 2019 reflected $84 million of income tax benefit due to regulations issued in the fourth quarter 2019 related
to the T ax Act. Excluding the income tax benefit, the ef fective income tax rate was 25.9% for the year 2019.
The ef fective income tax rate for 2018 reflected the final 2018 adjustments to the provisional amounts recorded in 2017 under the T ax Act of
$75 million net tax cost. Excluding the impact of the T ax Act and impairment charges, the ef fective income tax rate was 22.9% for the year 2018.
Consolidated net deferred tax liabilities included tax assets, net of valuation allowance, of $6.5 billion in 2020 and $5.3 billion in 2019.
Substantially all of the net tax assets are expected to be realized in the U.S. and other profitable markets.
RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
Recently issued accounting standards are included on page 43 of this Form 10-K.
CASH FLOWS
The Company has a long history of generating significant cash from operations and has substantial credit capacity to fund operating and
discretionary spending such as capital expenditures, debt repayments, dividends and share repurchases. As our operations have been impacted
due to COVID-19, we have taken actions to preserve financial flexibility , primarily during the peak of the pandemic.
Cash provided by operations totaled $6.3 billion in 2020, a decrease of $1.9 billion or 23%. Free cash flow was $4.6 billion in 2020, a
decrease of $1.1 billion or 19%. The Company’ s free cash flow conversion rate was 98% in 2020 and 95% in 2019. Cash provided by operations
decreased in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to a reduction in operating earnings due to COVID-19. In 2019, cash provided by operations
totaled $8.1 billion, an increase of $1.1 billion or 17% compared with 2018, primarily due to a decrease in accounts receivable and lower income
tax payments.
During 2020, the Company deferred collection of rent and royalties earned from franchisees. In total, the Company deferred collection of
approximately $1 billion, and has collected over 80% of these total deferrals as of December 31, 2020. The remaining deferrals are expected to
be collected in the first half of 2021.
Cash used for investing activities totaled $1.5 billion in 2020, a decrease of $1.5 billion compared with 2019. The decrease was primarily due
to lower capital expenditures, fewer strategic acquisitions, and proceeds received from the sale of McDonald’ s Japan stock in 2020. Cash used
for investing activities totaled $3.1 billion in 2019, an increase of $616 million compared with 2018. The increase was primarily due to the
Company’ s strategic acquisitions of a real estate entity , Dynamic Y ield and Apprente, partly of fset by lower capital expenditures.
Cash used for financing activities totaled $2.2 billion in 2020, a decrease of $2.7 billion compared with 2019. The decrease was primarily due
to $4.1 billion of lower treasury stock purchases in 2020 as the Company suspended its share repurchase program in early March 2020. In
addition, the Company had $2.2 billion in net debt issuances in 2020, as compared to $3.2 billion in net debt issuances in 2019. The decrease in
net debt issuances was primarily due to the timing of short-term commercial paper issuances and repayments. Cash used for financing activities
totaled $5.0 billion in 2019, a decrease of $955 million compared with 2018, primarily due to net debt activity .
The Company’ s cash and equivalents balance was $3.4 billion and $899 million at year end 2020 and 2019, respectively . In addition to cash
and equivalents on hand and cash provided by operations, the Company can meet short-term funding needs through its continued access to
commercial paper borrowings and line of credit agreements.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 19
RESTAURANT DEVELOPMENT AND CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
In 2020, the Company opened 977 restaurants and closed 643 restaurants. In 2019, the Company opened 1,231 restaurants and closed 391
restaurants. The decrease in openings during the year compared to 2019 was due to COVID-19. The closures in 2020 include approximately 200
closures in the U.S.; over half of which are lower sales volume McDonald's in W almart locations.
Systemwide restaurants at year end
2020 2019 2018
U.S. 13,682  13,846 13,914 
International Operated Markets 10,560  10,465 10,263 
International Developmental Licensed Markets & Corporate 14,956  14,384 13,678 
Total 39,198  38,695 37,855 
RESTAURANTS BY OWNERSHIP TYPE
Franchised restaurants Company-operated restaurants
Approximately 93% of the restaurants at year-end 2020 were franchised, including 95% in the U.S., 84% in International Operated Markets
and 98% in the International Developmental Licensed Markets.
Capital expenditures decreased $753 million or 31% in 2020 primarily due to lower reinvestment in existing restaurants as a result of COVID-
19. Capital expenditures decreased $348 million or 13% in 2019 primarily due to lower reinvestment in existing restaurants, partly of fset by an
increase in new restaurant openings that required the Company's capital.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 20
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES BY TYPE (In millions)
* Primarily corporate equipment and other office-related expenditures.
New restaurant investments in all years were concentrated in markets with strong returns and/or opportunities for long-term growth. A verage
development costs vary widely by market depending on the types of restaurants built and the real estate and construction costs within each
market. These costs, which include land, buildings and equipment, are managed through the use of optimally-sized restaurants, construction and
design ef ficiencies, as well as leveraging the Company's global sourcing network and best practices. Although the Company is not responsible for
all costs for every restaurant opened, total development costs for new traditional McDonald’ s restaurants in the U.S. averaged approximately $4.4
million in 2020.
As of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, the Company owned approximately 55% of the land and 80% of the buildings for
restaurants in its consolidated markets.
SHARE REPURCHASES AND DIVIDENDS
In 2020, the Company returned approximately $4.6 billion to shareholders, primarily through dividends paid.
Shares repurchased and dividends   
In millions, except per share data 2020 2019 2018
Number of shares repurchased 4.3 25.0 32.2 
Shares outstanding at year end 745 746 767 
Dividends declared per share $ 5.04 $ 4.73 $ 4.19 
Treasury stock purchases (in Shareholders' equity) $ 874 $4,980 $5,247 
Dividends paid 3,753  3,582 3,256 
Total returned to shareholders $4,627  $8,562 $8,503 
In December 2019, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to $15 billion of the Company's outstanding stock, with
no specified expiration date. In 2020, approximately 4.3 million shares were repurchased for $874.1 million under the program. In early March
2020, the Company voluntarily suspended share repurchases from the open market.
The Company has paid dividends on its common stock for 45 consecutive years and has increased the dividend amount every year . The
2020 full year dividend of $5.04 per share reflects the quarterly dividend paid for each of the first three quarters of $1.25 per share, with an
increase to $1.29 per share paid in the fourth quarter . This 3% increase in the quarterly dividend equates to a $5.16 per share annual dividend
and reflects the Company’ s confidence in the ongoing strength and reliability of its cash flow . As in the past, future dividend amounts will be
considered after reviewing profitability expectations and financing needs, and will be declared at the discretion of the Company’ s Board of
Directors.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 21
FINANCIAL POSITION AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
TOTAL ASSETS AND RETURN
Total assets increased $5.1 billion or 11% in 2020, primarily due to an increase in Cash and equivalents driven by lower capital expenditures and
fewer treasury stock purchases compared to the prior year , as well as proceeds received from the sale of McDonald's Japan stock. Net property
and equipment increased $0.8 billion in 2020, primarily due to fixed asset additions and the impact of foreign exchange rates, partly of fset by
depreciation. Net property and equipment and the Lease right-of-use asset, net represented approximately 50% and approximately 25%,
respectively , of total assets at year-end. Approximately 86% of total assets were in the U.S. and International Operated Markets at year-end
2020.
The Company’ s after-tax ROIC from continuing operations is a metric that management believes measures our capital-allocation
effectiveness over time and was 14.9%, 19.2% and 20.0% as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively . The decrease from 2019 to
2020 was primarily due to the decrease in operating performance as a result of COVID-19 and higher average debt balances compared to the
prior year . Refer to the reconciliation in Exhibit 12.
FINANCING AND MARKET RISK
The Company generally borrows on a long-term basis and is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations.
Debt obligations at December 31, 2020 totaled $37.4 billion, compared with $34.2 billion at December 31, 2019. The net increase in 2020 was
primarily due to net long-term issuances of $3.1 billion, which were used to bolster our cash position in anticipation of the adverse
macroeconomic and business conditions associated with COVID-19.
Debt highlights
2020 2019 2018
Fixed-rate debt as a percent of total debt 95 % 92 % 91 %
Weighted-average annual interest rate of total debt 3.2 3.2 3.2 
Foreign currency-denominated debt as a percent of total debt 36 38 38 
Total debt as a percent of total capitalization (total debt and total Shareholders' equity) 126 131 125 
Cash provided by operations as a percent of total debt 17 24 22 
(1) All percentages are as of December 31, except for the weighted-average annual interest rate, which is for the year . See reconciliation in Exhibit 12.
(2) Based on debt obligations before the effects of fair value hedging adjustments and deferred debt costs. These effects are excluded as they have no impact on the
obligation at maturity . See Debt Financing note to the consolidated financial statements.
(3) Includes the effect of interest rate swaps used to hedge debt.
In connection with the increased funding activity during the first quarter of 2020, both Standard & Poor ’s (S&P) and Moody’ s affirmed our
ratings, although S&P put McDonald's on negative outlook. S&P and Moody's currently rate the Company’ s commercial paper A-2 and P-2,
respectively; and its long-term debt BBB+ and Baa1, respectively . To access the debt capital markets, the Company relies on credit-rating
agencies to assign short-term and long-term credit ratings.
Certain of the Company’ s debt obligations contain cross-acceleration provisions and restrictions on Company and subsidiary mortgages and
the long-term debt of certain subsidiaries. There are no provisions in the Company’ s debt obligations that would accelerate repayment of debt as
a result of a change in credit ratings or a material adverse change in the Company’ s business. In December 2019, the Company's Board of
Directors authorized $15 billion of borrowing capacity with no specified expiration date, of which $9.5 billion remains outstanding as of December
31, 2020. These borrowings may include (i) public or private of fering of debt securities; (ii) direct borrowing from banks or other financial
institutions; and (iii) other forms of indebtedness. In April 2020, the Company’ s Board of Directors provided additional authorization to issue
commercial paper and draw on lines of credit agreements up to $8 billion in addition to the $15 billion authorized as referenced above. In addition
to debt securities available through a medium-term notes program registered with the SEC and a Global Medium-T erm Notes program, the
Company has $4.5 billion available under committed line of credit agreements  (see Debt Financing note to the consolidated financial statements).
As of December 31, 2020, the Company's subsidiaries also had $274 million of borrowings outstanding, primarily under uncommitted foreign
currency line of credit agreements.
The Company uses major capital markets, bank financings and derivatives to meet its financing requirements. The Company manages its
debt portfolio in response to changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates by periodically retiring, redeeming and repurchasing debt,
terminating swaps and using derivatives. The Company does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes. All swaps are over-the-counter
instruments.
In managing the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations, the Company uses interest rate swaps and finances in the
currencies in which assets are denominated. The Company uses foreign currency debt and derivatives to hedge the foreign currency risk
associated with certain royalties, intercompany financings and long-term investments in foreign subsidiaries and af filiates. This reduces the
impact of fluctuating foreign currencies on cash flows and shareholders’ equity . Total foreign currency-denominated debt was $13.7 billion and
$12.9 billion for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively . In addition, where practical, the Company’ s restaurants purchase
goods and services in local currencies resulting in natural hedges. See the Summary of significant accounting policies note to the consolidated
financial statements related to financial instruments and hedging activities for additional information regarding the accounting impact and use of
derivatives.(1)
(2,3)
(3)
(2)
(2)
(2)
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 22
The Company does not have significant exposure to any individual counterparty and has master agreements that contain netting
arrangements. Certain of these agreements also require each party to post collateral if credit ratings fall below , or aggregate exposures exceed,
certain contractual limits. At December 31, 2020, the Company was required to post an immaterial amount of collateral due to the negative fair
value of certain derivative positions. The Company's counterparties were not required to post collateral on any derivative position, other than on
hedges of certain of the Company’ s supplemental benefit plan liabilities where the counterparties were required to post collateral on their liability
positions.
The Company’ s net asset exposure is diversified among a broad basket of currencies. The Company’ s largest net asset exposures (defined
as foreign currency assets less foreign currency liabilities) at year end were as follows:
Foreign currency net asset exposures
In millions of U.S. Dollars 2020 2019
British Pounds Sterling $1,374  $ 811 
Australian Dollars 913 560 
Canadian Dollars 878 699 
Russian Ruble 533 577 
Polish Zloty 393 396 
The Company prepared sensitivity analyses of its financial instruments to determine the impact of hypothetical changes in interest rates and
foreign currency exchange rates on the Company’ s results of operations, cash flows and the fair value of its financial instruments. The interest
rate analysis assumed a one percentage point adverse change in interest rates on all financial instruments, but did not consider the ef fects of the
reduced level of economic activity that could exist in such an environment. The foreign currency rate analysis assumed that each foreign currency
rate would change by 10% in the same direction relative to the U.S. Dollar on all financial instruments; however , the analysis did not include the
potential impact on revenues, local currency prices or the ef fect of fluctuating currencies on the Company’ s anticipated foreign currency royalties
and other payments received from the markets. Based on the results of these analyses of the Company’ s financial instruments, neither a one
percentage point adverse change in interest rates from 2020 levels nor a 10% adverse change in foreign currency rates from 2020 levels would
materially af fect the Company’ s results of operations, cash flows or the fair value of its financial instruments.
LIQUIDITY
The Company has significant operations outside the U.S. where we earn approximately 65% of our operating income. A significant portion of
these historical earnings have been reinvested in foreign jurisdictions where the Company has made, and will continue to make, substantial
investments to support the ongoing development and growth of our international operations.
During the first quarter of 2020, the Company secured $6.5 billion of new financing, including $5.5 billion of debt issuances at various
maturities and a new $1.0 billion line of credit that was drawn upon immediately . In the third quarter of 2020, the Company repaid the total $1.0
billion on its line of credit. The $1.0 billion line of credit agreement remains in place and the amount remains available to be borrowed. The
Company also has $3.5 billion available under a committed line of credit, which has not been drawn upon, as well as continuing authority to issue
commercial paper in the U.S. and global markets. In 2021, the Company intends to reduce current debt levels to return to pre-COVID-19 leverage
ratios.
Consistent with prior years, we expect existing domestic cash and equivalents, domestic cash flows from operations, the ability to issue
domestic debt, and repatriation of a portion of foreign earnings to continue to be suf ficient to fund our domestic operating, investing, and financing
activities. W e also continue to expect existing foreign cash and equivalents and foreign cash flows from operations to be suf ficient to fund our
foreign operating, investing and financing activities.
In the future, should we require more capital to fund activities in the U.S. than is generated by our domestic operations and is available
through the issuance of domestic debt, we could elect to repatriate a greater portion of future periods' earnings from foreign jurisdictions.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 23
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS
The Company has long-term contractual obligations primarily in the form of lease obligations (related to both Company-operated and franchised
restaurants) and debt obligations. In addition, the Company has long-term revenue and cash flow streams that relate to its franchise
arrangements. Minimum rent payments under franchise arrangements are based on the Company’ s underlying investment in owned sites and
parallel the Company’ s underlying lease obligations and escalations on properties that are leased. The Company believes that control over the
real estate enables it to achieve restaurant performance levels that are amongst the highest in the industry . Cash provided by operations
(including cash provided by these franchise arrangements) along with the Company’ s borrowing capacity and other sources of cash will be used
to satisfy the obligations. The following table summarizes the Company’ s contractual obligations and their aggregate maturities as well as future
minimum rent payments due to the Company under existing franchise arrangements as of December 31, 2020. 
 Contractual cash outflows Contractual cash inflows
In millions Leases Debt obligations Minimum rent under
 franchise arrangements
2021 $ 1,216 $ 2,244 $ 3,073 
2022 1,150 2,332 2,954 
2023 1,068 2,644 2,835 
2024 989 3,301 2,743 
2025 899 3,159 2,642 
Thereafter 7,358 23,881 20,175 
Total $ 12,680 $ 37,561 $ 34,422 
(1) For sites that have lease escalations tied to an index, future minimum payments reflect the current index adjustments through December 31, 2020. In addition, future
minimum payments exclude option periods that have not yet been exercised.
(2) The maturities include reclassifications of short-term obligations to long-term obligations of $269 million, as they are supported by a long-term line of credit agreement
expiring in December 2024. Debt obligations do not include the impact of non-cash fair value hedging adjustments, deferred debt costs and accrued interest.
In the U.S., the Company maintains certain supplemental benefit plans that allow participants to (i) make tax-deferred contributions and
(ii) receive Company-provided allocations that cannot be made under the qualified benefit plans because of Internal Revenue Service ("IRS")
limitations. At December 31, 2020, total liabilities for the supplemental plans were $431 million.
At December 31, 2020, total liabilities for gross unrecognized tax benefits were $1.5 billion.
On a recurring basis, the Company contracts with vendors and suppliers in the normal course of business. These contracts may
include items related to construction projects, inventory , energy , marketing, technology and other services. Generally , these items are shorter
term in nature and have no minimum payment requirements. They are funded from operating cash flows and reflected in other areas of the Form
10-K (e.g., franchised margins, Company-operated margins and selling, general and administrative expenses that are reflected in the
Consolidated Statement of Income and capital expenditures that are reflected on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows).
The Company has guaranteed certain loans totaling approximately $95 million at December 31, 2020. These guarantees are contingent
commitments generally issued by the Company to support borrowing arrangements of the System. At December 31, 2020, there was no carrying
value for obligations under these guarantees in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
OTHER MATTERS
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
Management’ s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon the Company’ s consolidated financial
statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of these financial
statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that af fect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and
expenses as well as related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates and judgments based on historical
experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may dif fer from these estimates.
The Company reviews its financial reporting and disclosure practices and accounting policies quarterly to confirm that they provide accurate
and transparent information relative to the current economic and business environment. The Company believes that of its significant accounting
policies, the following involve a higher degree of judgment and/or complexity:
•Property and equipment
Property and equipment are depreciated or amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives based on management’ s estimates of the
period over which the assets will generate revenue (not to exceed lease term plus options for leased property). The useful lives are estimated
based on historical experience with similar assets, taking into account anticipated technological or other changes. Refer to the Property and
Equipment section in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies footnote on page 44 and the Property and Equipment footnote on page 51
for additional information.
•Leasing Arrangements
The Lease right-of-use asset and Lease liability include an assumption on renewal options that have not yet been exercised by the Company .
The Company also uses an incremental borrowing rate in calculating the Lease liability that represents an estimate of the interest rate the
Company would incur to borrow on a collateralized basis over the term of a lease within a particular currency environment. Refer to the Leasing
section in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies footnote on page 44 and the Leasing Arrangements footnote on page 52 for additional
information.(1) (2)
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 24
•Long-lived assets impairment review
Long-lived assets (including goodwill) are reviewed for impairment annually . If qualitative indicators of impairment are present, such as changes
in global and local business and economic conditions, operating costs, inflation, competition, and consumer and demographic trends, the
Company will use these and other factors in estimating future cash flows when testing for the recoverability of its long-lived assets. Estimates of
future cash flows are highly subjective judgements based on the Company’ s experience and knowledge of its operations. A key assumption
impacting estimated future cash flows is the estimated change in comparable sales. If the Company’ s estimates or underlying assumptions
change in the future, the Company may be required to record impairment charges. Refer to the Long-lived Assets and Goodwill sections in the
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies footnote on page 45 for additional information.
•Litigation accruals
In the ordinary course of business, the Company is subject to proceedings, lawsuits and other claims primarily related to competitors, customers,
employees, franchisees, government agencies, intellectual property , shareholders and suppliers. The Company is required to assess the
likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters as well as potential ranges of probable losses. Refer to the Contingencies
footnote on page 53 for additional information.
•Income taxes
The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax assets if it is considered more likely than not that some portion or all of the
deferred tax assets will not be realized.
The Company operates within multiple taxing jurisdictions and is subject to audit in these jurisdictions. The Company records accruals for the
estimated outcomes of these audits, and the accruals may change in the future due to new developments in each matter .
Refer to the Income T axes sections in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies footnote on page 46 and the Income T axes footnote
on page 53 for additional information.
EFFECTS OF CHANGING PRICES—INFLATION
The Company has demonstrated an ability to manage inflationary cost increases ef fectively . This ability is because of rapid inventory turnover , the
ability to adjust menu prices, cost controls and substantial property holdings, many of which are at fixed costs and partly financed by debt made
less expensive by inflation.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 25
Other Key Information
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
5-Year Summary Years ended December 31,
In millions, except per share and unit amounts 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Consolidated Statement of Income Data
Revenues
   Sales by Company-operated restaurants $ 8,139  $ 9,421 $ 10,013 $ 12,719 $ 15,295 
   Revenues from franchised restaurants 10,726  11,656 11,012 10,101 9,327 
   Other revenues 343 288 233 140 151 
Total revenues 19,208  21,365 21,258 22,960 24,773 
Operating income 7,324  9,070 8,823 9,553 7,745 
Net income 4,731  6,025 5,924 5,192 4,687 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Data
Cash provided by operations $ 6,265  $ 8,122 $ 6,967 $ 5,551 $ 6,060 
Cash used for (provided by) investing activities 1,546  3,071 2,455 (562) 982 
Capital expenditures 1,641  2,394 2,742 1,854 1,821 
Cash used for financing activities 2,249  4,995 5,950 5,311 11,262 
Treasury stock purchases 874 4,980 5,247 4,651 11,142 
Common stock dividends 3,753  3,582 3,256 3,089 3,058 
Financial Position
Total assets $ 52,627  $ 47,511 $ 32,811 $ 33,804 $ 31,024 
Total debt 37,440  34,177 31,075 29,536 25,956 
Total shareholders’ equity (deficit) (7,825) (8,210) (6,258) (3,268) (2,204)
Shares outstanding 745 746 767 794 819 
Per Common Share Data
Earnings-diluted $ 6.31 $ 7.88 $ 7.54 $ 6.37 $ 5.44 
Dividends declared 5.04 4.73 4.19 3.83 3.61 
Market price at year end 214.58  197.61 177.57 172.12 121.72 
Restaurant Information and Other Data
Restaurants at year end
   Company-operated restaurants 2,677  2,636 2,770 3,133 5,669 
   Franchised restaurants 36,521  36,059 35,085 34,108 31,230 
Total Systemwide restaurants 39,198  38,695 37,855 37,241 36,899 
Franchised sales $ 85,178  $ 90,757 $ 86,134 $ 78,191 $ 69,707 
(1) Refer to the Basis of Presentation section included in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies footnote of this Form 10-K for additional information related to a
change in presentation that was effective January 1, 2020, which was applied retrospectively to all periods presented.
(2) Represents treasury stock purchases as reflected in Shareholders' equity . Treasury stock purchases decreased from 2019 to 2020 as the Company suspended its share
repurchase program in March 2020.
(3) Total assets increased from 2018 to 2019 primarily due to the Company's Lease right-of-use asset recorded as a result of the adoption of Accounting Standard
Codification ("ASC") T opic 842, "Leases" ("ASC 842").
(4) While franchised sales are not recorded as revenues by the Company , management believes they are important in understanding the Company's financial performance
because these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised revenues and are indicative of the financial health of the franchisee base.
Franchised restaurants represent 93% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide at December 31, 2020.(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 26
STOCK PERFORMANCE GRAPH
At least annually , we consider which companies comprise a readily identifiable investment peer group. McDonald's is included in published
restaurant indices; however , unlike most other companies included in these indices, which have no or limited international operations,
McDonald's does business in more than 100 countries and a substantial portion of our revenues and income is generated outside the U.S. In
addition, because of our size, McDonald's inclusion in those indices tends to skew the results. Therefore, we believe that such a comparison is
not meaningful.
Our market capitalization, trading volume and importance in an industry that is vital to the U.S. economy have resulted in McDonald's
inclusion in the Dow Jones Industrial A verage (DJIA) since 1985. Like McDonald's, many DJIA companies generate meaningful revenues and
income outside the U.S. and some manage global brands. Thus, we believe that the use of the DJIA companies as the group for comparison
purposes is appropriate.
The following performance graph shows McDonald's cumulative total shareholder returns (i.e., price appreciation and reinvestment of
dividends) relative to the Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index (S&P 500 Index) and to the DJIA companies for the five-year period ended
December 31, 2020. The graph assumes that the value of an investment in McDonald's common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the DJIA
companies (including McDonald's) was $100 at December 31, 2015. For the DJIA companies, returns are weighted for market capitalization as of
the beginning of each period indicated. These returns may vary from those of the Dow Jones Industrial A verage Index, which is not weighted by
market capitalization, and may be composed of dif ferent companies during the period under consideration.
Company/Index 12/31/2015 12/31/2016 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2019 12/31/2020
McDonald's Corporation $100 $106 $154 $163 $186 $207
S&P 500 Index $100 $112 $136 $130 $171 $203
Dow Jones Industrials $100 $116 $149 $144 $181 $198
Source: S&P Capital IQ
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 27
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF
EQUITY SECURITIES
MARKET INFORMATION AND DIVIDEND POLICY
The Company’ s common stock trades under the symbol MCD and is listed on the New Y ork Stock Exchange in the U.S.
The number of shareholders of record and beneficial owners of the Company’ s common stock as of January 31, 2021 was estimated to be
2,900,000 .
Given the Company’ s returns on its capital investments and significant cash provided by operations, management believes it is prudent to
reinvest in the business to drive profitable growth and use excess cash flow to return cash to shareholders through dividends and share
repurchases. The Company has paid dividends on common stock for 45 consecutive years through 2020 and has increased the dividend amount
at least once every year . As in the past, future dividend amounts will be considered after reviewing profitability expectations and financing needs,
and will be declared at the discretion of the Company’ s Board of Directors.
ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
The following table presents information related to repurchases of common stock the Company made during the quarter ended December 31,
2020*:
PeriodTotal Number of
Shares PurchasedAverage Price
 Paid per ShareTotal Number of
Shares Purchased as
Part of Publicly
Announced Plans or
ProgramsApproximate Dollar
Value of Shares
that May Yet
Be Purchased Under
the Plans or Programs
October 1-31, 2020 7,104 223.77 7,104 $14,126,457,801 
November 1-30, 2020 2,342 216.52 2,342 14,125,950,721 
December 1-31, 2020 356 212.08 356 14,125,875,221 
   Total 9,802 221.61 9,802 
*    Subject to applicable law , the Company may repurchase shares directly in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, or pursuant to derivative instruments and
plans complying with Rule 10b5-1, among other types of transactions and arrangements.
(1)On December 31, 2019, the Company's Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program, effective January 1, 2020, that authorized the purchase of
up to $15 billion of the Company's outstanding common stock. In early March 2020, the Company voluntarily suspended share repurchases from the open
market. Therefore, the table above reflects only shares withheld for taxes under the Company's equity compensation program.(1) (1) (1)
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 28
RISK F ACTORS
GLOBAL P ANDEMIC
The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely affected and is expected to continue to adversely affect our financial results, condition and
outlook.
Health epidemics or pandemics can adversely af fect consumer spending and confidence levels and supply availability and costs, as well
as the local operations in impacted markets, all of which can af fect our financial results, condition and outlook. Importantly , the global pandemic
resulting from COVID-19 has disrupted global health, economic and market conditions, consumer behavior and McDonald’ s global restaurant
operations beginning in early 2020. Local and national governmental mandates or recommendations and public perceptions of the risks
associated with the COVID-19 pandemic have caused, and we expect will continue to cause, consumer behavior to change and worsening or
volatile economic conditions, each of which could continue to adversely af fect our business. In addition, our global operations have been
disrupted to varying degrees and may continue to be disrupted given the unpredictability of the virus, its resurgences and government responses
thereto as well as potentially permanent changes to the industry we operate in. While we cannot predict the duration or scope of the COVID-19
pandemic, the resurgence of infections in one or more markets, or the impact of vaccines across the globe, the COVID-19 pandemic has
negatively impacted our business and is expected to continue to impact our financial results, condition and outlook in a way that may be material.
The COVID-19 pandemic may also heighten other risks disclosed in these Risk Factors, such as, but not limited to, those related to
consumer behavior , consumer perceptions of our brand, supply chain interruptions, commodity costs and labor availability and cost.
STRA TEGY AND BRAND
If we do not successfully evolve and execute against our business strategies, including the new Accelerating the Arches strategy , we
may not be able to drive business growth.
To drive Systemwide sales, operating income and free cash flow growth, our business strategies must be ef fective in maintaining and
strengthening customer appeal and capturing additional market share. Whether these strategies are successful depends mainly on our System’ s
ability to:
•Capitalize on our global scale, iconic brand and local market presence to build upon our historic strengths and competitive advantages,
such as our marketing, core menu items and digital, delivery and drive thru;
•Continue to innovate and dif ferentiate the McDonald's experience, including by preparing and serving our food in a way that balances
value and convenience to our customers with profitability;
•Accelerate digital innovation for a fast and easy customer experience;
•Continue to run great restaurants by driving ef ficiencies and expanding capacities while continuing to prioritize health and safety;
•Identify and develop restaurant sites consistent with our plans for net growth of Systemwide restaurants;
•Accelerate our existing strategies, including through growth opportunities and potential acquisitions, investments and partnerships; and
•Evolve and adjust our business strategies in response to, among other things, changing consumer behavior , operational restrictions and
impacts to our results of operations and liquidity , including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
If we are delayed or unsuccessful in executing our strategies, or if our strategies do not yield the desired results, our business, financial
condition and results of operations may suf fer.
Failure to preserve the value and relevance of our brand could have an adverse impact on our financial results.
To be successful in the future, we believe we must preserve, enhance and leverage the value of our brand, including our corporate
purpose, mission and values. Brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions. Those perceptions are af fected by a variety of factors,
including the nutritional content and preparation of our food, the ingredients we use, the manner in which we source commodities and our general
business practices. Consumer acceptance of our of ferings is subject to change for a variety of reasons, and some changes can occur rapidly . For
example, nutritional, health, environmental and other scientific studies and conclusions, which constantly evolve and may have contradictory
implications, drive popular opinion, litigation and regulation (including initiatives intended to drive consumer behavior) in ways that af fect the
“informal eating out” (“IEO”) segment or perceptions of our brand, generally or relative to available alternatives. Consumer perceptions may also
be af fected by adverse commentary from third parties, including through social media or conventional media outlets, regarding the quick-service
category of the IEO segment, our brand, our culture, our operations, our suppliers, or our franchisees. If we are unsuccessful in addressing
adverse commentary or perceptions, whether or not accurate, our brand and our financial results may suf fer.
Additionally , the ongoing relevance of our brand may depend on the success of our sustainability initiatives, which require Systemwide
coordination and alignment. W e are working to manage any risks and costs to us, our franchisees and our supply chain of any ef fects of climate
change, greenhouse gases, and diminishing energy and water resources. These risks include any increased public focus, including by
governmental and nongovernmental organizations, on these and other environmental sustainability matters, such as packaging and waste,
animal health and welfare, deforestation and land use. These risks also include any increased pressure to make commitments, set targets or
establish additional goals and take actions to meet them. These risks could expose us to market, operational and execution costs or risks.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 29
If we are not ef fective in addressing social and environmental responsibility matters or achieving relevant sustainability goals, consumer
trust in our brand may suf fer. In particular , business incidents or practices, whether actual or perceived, that erode consumer trust or confidence,
particularly if such incidents or practices receive considerable publicity or result in litigation, can significantly reduce brand value and have a
negative impact on our financial results.
If we do not anticipate and address evolving consumer preferences and effectively execute our pricing, promotional and marketing
plans, our business could suffer .
Our continued success depends on our System’ s ability to build upon our historic strengths and competitive advantages. In order to do so,
we need to anticipate and respond ef fectively to continuously shifting consumer demographics and trends in food sourcing, food preparation, food
offerings and consumer preferences and behaviors in the IEO segment. If we are not able to predict, or quickly and ef fectively respond to, these
changes, or our competitors predict or respond more ef fectively , our financial results could be adversely impacted.
Our ability to build upon our strengths and advantages also depends on the impact of pricing, promotional and marketing plans across the
System, and the ability to adjust these plans to respond quickly and ef fectively to evolving customer preferences, as well as shifting economic
and competitive conditions. Existing or future pricing strategies, marketing plans, and the value proposition they represent, are expected to
continue to be important components of our business strategy; however , they may not be successful, or may not be as successful as the ef forts
of our competitors, and could negatively impact sales, guest counts and market share.
Additionally , we operate in a complex and costly advertising environment. Our marketing and advertising programs may not be successful
in reaching our customers in the way we intend. Our success depends in part on whether the allocation of our advertising and marketing
resources across dif ferent channels, including digital marketing, allows us to reach our customers ef fectively and ef ficiently , and in ways that are
meaningful to them. If the advertising and marketing programs are not successful, or are not as successful as those of our competitors, our sales,
guest counts and market share could decrease.
Our investments to enhance the customer experience, including through technology , may not generate the expected returns.
Our long-term business objectives depend on the successful Systemwide execution of our strategies. W e continue to build upon our
investments in technology and modernization, digital engagement and delivery , in order to transform the customer experience. As part of these
investments, we are placing renewed emphasis on improving our service model and strengthening relationships with customers, in part through
digital channels and loyalty initiatives, mobile ordering and payment systems, and enhancing our drive thru technologies, which may not generate
expected returns. W e also continue to of fer and refine our delivery initiatives, including through growing awareness and trial. Utilizing a third-party
delivery service may not have the same level of profitability as a non-delivery transaction, and may introduce additional food quality and customer
satisfaction risks. If these customer experience initiatives are not well executed, or if we do not fully realize the intended benefits of these
significant investments, our business results may suf fer.
We face intense competition in our markets, which could hurt our business.
We compete primarily in the IEO segment, which is highly competitive. W e also face sustained, intense competition from traditional, fast
casual and other competitors, which may include many non-traditional market participants such as convenience stores, grocery stores and cof fee
shops as well as online retailers. W e expect our environment to continue to be highly competitive, and our results in any particular reporting
period may be impacted by a contracting IEO segment or by new or continuing actions, product of ferings or consolidation of our competitors and
third party partners, which may have a short- or long-term impact on our results.
We compete on the basis of product choice, quality , affordability , service and location. In particular , we believe our ability to compete
successfully in the current market environment depends on our ability to improve existing products, successfully develop and introduce new
products, price our products appropriately , deliver a relevant customer experience, manage the complexity of our restaurant operations, manage
our investments in technology and modernization, and respond ef fectively to our competitors’ actions or of ferings or to unforeseen disruptive
actions. There can be no assurance these strategies will be ef fective, and some strategies may be ef fective at improving some metrics while
adversely af fecting other metrics, which could have the overall ef fect of harming our business.
We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property or adequately ensure that we are not infringing the intellectual
property of others, which could harm the value of the McDonald’ s brand and our business.
The success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to increase brand
awareness and further develop our branded products in both domestic and international markets. W e rely on a combination of trademarks,
copyrights, service marks, trade secrets, patents and other intellectual property rights to protect our brand and branded products.
We have registered certain trademarks and have other trademark registrations pending in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. The
trademarks that we currently use have not been registered in all of the countries outside of the U.S. in which we do business or may do business
in the future and may never be registered in all of these countries. It may be costly and time consuming to protect our intellectual property , and
the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property in the U.S. and foreign countries may not be adequate. In addition, the steps we have
taken may not adequately ensure that we do not infringe the intellectual property of others, and third parties may claim infringement by us in the
future. In particular , we may be involved in intellectual property claims, including often aggressive or opportunistic attempts to enforce patents
used in information technology systems, which might af fect our operations and results. Any claim of infringement, whether or not it has merit,
could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and harm our business.
We cannot ensure that franchisees and other third parties who hold licenses to our intellectual property will not take actions that hurt the
value of our intellectual property .
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 30
OPERA TIONS
The global scope of our business subjects us to risks that could negatively affect our business.
We encounter dif fering cultural, regulatory , geopolitical and economic environments within and among the more than 100 countries where
McDonald’ s restaurants operate, and our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on the System's success in these environments.
Meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our global operating environment, and our global success is partially
dependent on our System’ s ability to leverage operating successes across markets and brand perceptions. Planned initiatives may not have
appeal across multiple markets with McDonald's customers and could drive unanticipated changes in customer perceptions and guest counts.
Disruptions in operations or price volatility in a market can also result from governmental actions, such as price, foreign exchange or
changes in trade-related tarif fs or controls, sanctions and counter sanctions, government-mandated closure of our , our franchisees’ or our
suppliers’ operations, and asset seizures. T rade policies, tarif fs and other regulations af fecting trade between the U.S. and other countries could
adversely af fect our business and operations. These and other government actions may impact our results and could cause reputational or other
harm. Our international success depends in part on the ef fectiveness of our strategies and brand-building initiatives to reduce our exposure to
such governmental actions.
Additionally , challenges and uncertainties are associated with operating in developing markets, which may entail a relatively higher risk of
political instability , economic volatility , crime, corruption and social and ethnic unrest. Such challenges may be exacerbated in many cases by a
lack of an independent and experienced judiciary and uncertainties in how local law is applied and enforced, including in areas most relevant to
commercial transactions and foreign investment. An inability to manage ef fectively the risks associated with our international operations could
have a material adverse ef fect on our business and financial condition.
We may also face challenges and uncertainties in developed markets. For example, as a result of the U.K.’ s exit from the European Union,
it is possible that there will be increased regulatory complexities and uncertainty in European or worldwide economic conditions. The decision
created volatility in certain foreign currency exchange rates that may or may not continue, and may result in increased supply chain costs for
items that are imported from other countries. Any of these ef fects, and others we cannot anticipate, could adversely af fect our business, results of
operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Supply chain interruptions may increase costs or reduce revenues.
We depend on the ef fectiveness of our supply chain management to assure reliable and suf ficient supply of quality products on favorable
terms. Although many of the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of suppliers in countries around the world, certain products have
limited suppliers, which may increase our reliance on those suppliers. Supply chain interruptions, including as a result of shortages and
transportation issues or unexpected increases in demand, and price increases can adversely af fect us as well as our suppliers and franchisees,
whose performance may have a significant impact on our results. Such shortages or disruptions could be caused by factors beyond the control of
our suppliers, franchisees or us. If we experience interruptions in our System’ s supply chain, or if contingency planning is not ef fective, our costs
could increase and it could limit the availability of products critical to our System’ s operations.
Our franchise business model presents a number of risks.
The Company's success as a heavily franchised business relies to a large degree on the financial success and cooperation of our
franchisees, including our developmental licensees and af filiates. Our restaurant margins arise from two sources: fees from franchised
restaurants (e.g., rent and royalties based on a percentage of sales) and, to a lesser degree, sales from Company-operated restaurants. Our
franchisees and developmental licensees manage their businesses independently , and therefore are responsible for the day-to-day operation of
their restaurants. The revenues we realize from franchised restaurants are largely dependent on the ability of our franchisees to grow their sales.
Business risks af fecting our operations also af fect our franchisees. In particular , our franchisees have also been significantly impacted by the
COVID-19 pandemic, and the Company granted the deferral of cash collection for certain rent and royalties earned from franchisees in
substantially all markets. If franchisee sales trends worsen, or do not improve at a suf ficiently rapid rate, our financial results will continue to be
negatively af fected, which may be material.
Our success also relies on the willingness and ability of our independent franchisees and af filiates to implement major initiatives, which
may include financial investment, and to remain aligned with us on operating, value/promotional and capital-intensive reinvestment plans. The
ability of franchisees to contribute to the achievement of our plans is dependent in large part on the availability to them of funding at reasonable
interest rates and may be negatively impacted by the financial markets in general, by the creditworthiness of our franchisees or the Company or
by banks’ lending practices. If our franchisees are unwilling or unable to invest in major initiatives or are unable to obtain financing at
commercially reasonable rates, or at all, our future growth and results of operations could be adversely af fected.
Our operating performance could also be negatively af fected if our franchisees experience food safety or other operational problems or
project an image inconsistent with our brand and values, particularly if our contractual and other rights and remedies are limited, costly to
exercise or subjected to litigation and potential delays. If franchisees do not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our
required standards, our brand’ s image and reputation could be harmed, which in turn could hurt our business and operating results.
Our ownership mix also af fects our results and financial condition. The decision to own restaurants or to operate under franchise or license
agreements is driven by many factors whose interrelationship is complex. The benefits of our more heavily franchised structure depend on
various factors including whether we have ef fectively selected franchisees, licensees and/or af filiates that meet our rigorous standards, whether
we are able to successfully integrate them into our structure and whether their performance and the resulting ownership mix supports our brand
and financial objectives.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 31
Challenges with respect to labor , including availability and cost, could impact our business and results of operations.
Our success depends in part on our System’ s ability to proactively recruit, motivate and retain qualified individuals to work in McDonald's
restaurants and to maintain appropriately-staf fed restaurants in an intensely competitive environment. Increased costs associated with recruiting,
motivating and retaining qualified employees to work in our Company-operated restaurants, as well as costs to promote awareness of the
opportunities of working at McDonald's restaurants, could have a negative impact on our Company-operated margins. Similar concerns apply to
our franchisees.
We are also impacted by the costs and other ef fects of compliance with U.S. and international regulations af fecting our workforce, which
includes our staf f and employees working in our Company-operated restaurants. These regulations are increasingly focused on employment
issues, including wage and hour , healthcare, immigration, retirement and other employee benefits and workplace practices. Claims of non-
compliance with these regulations could result in liability and expense to us. Our potential exposure to reputational and other harm regarding our
workplace practices or conditions or those of our independent franchisees or suppliers, including those giving rise to claims of harassment or
discrimination (or perceptions thereof) or workplace safety could have a negative impact on consumer perceptions of us and our business.
Additionally , economic action, such as boycotts, protests, work stoppages or campaigns by labor organizations, could adversely af fect us
(including our ability to recruit and retain talent) or the franchisees and suppliers that are also part of the McDonald's System and whose
performance may have a material impact on our results.
Effective succession planning is important to our continued success.
Effective succession planning is important to our long-term success. Failure to ef fectively identify , develop and retain key personnel, recruit
high-quality candidates and ensure smooth management and personnel transitions could disrupt our business and adversely af fect our results.
Food safety concerns may have an adverse effect on our business.
Our ability to increase sales and profits depends on our System’ s ability to meet expectations for safe food and on our ability to manage
the potential impact on McDonald’ s of food-borne illnesses and food or product safety issues that may arise in the future, including in the supply
chain, restaurants or delivery . Food safety is a top priority , and we dedicate substantial resources to ensure that our customers enjoy safe food
products, including as our menu and service model evolve. However , food safety events, including instances of food-borne illness, occur within
the food industry and our System from time to time and could occur in the future. Instances of food tampering, food contamination or food-borne
illness, whether actual or perceived, could adversely af fect our brand and reputation as well as our revenues and profits.
If we do not effectively manage our real estate portfolio, our operating results may be negatively impacted.
We have significant real estate operations, primarily in connection with our restaurant business. W e generally own or secure a long-term
lease on the land and building for conventional franchised and Company-operated restaurant sites. W e seek to identify and develop restaurant
locations that of fer convenience to customers and long-term sales and profit potential. As we generally secure long-term real estate interests for
our restaurants, we have limited flexibility to quickly alter our real estate portfolio. The competitive business landscape continues to evolve in light
of changing business trends, consumer preferences, trade area demographics, consumer use of digital and delivery , local competitive positions
and other economic factors. If our restaurants are not located in desirable locations, or if we do not evolve in response to these factors, it could
adversely af fect Systemwide sales and profitability .
Our real estate values and the costs associated with our real estate operations are also impacted by a variety of other factors, including
governmental regulations; insurance; zoning, tax and eminent domain laws; interest rate levels and the cost of financing. A significant change in
real estate values, or an increase in costs as a result of any of these factors, could adversely af fect our operating results.
Information technology system failures or interruptions, or breaches of network security , may impact our operations or cause
reputational harm.
We are increasingly reliant upon technology systems, such as point-of-sale, technologies supporting McDonald’ s digital and delivery
solutions, and technologies that facilitate communication and collaboration with af filiated entities, customers, employees, franchisees, suppliers,
service providers or other independent third parties to conduct our business, whether developed and maintained by us or provided by third
parties. Any failure or interruption of these systems could significantly impact our franchisees’ operations, or our customers’ experience and
perceptions. Additionally , we provide certain technology systems to businesses that are unaf filiated with the McDonald’ s System and a failure,
interruption or breach of these systems may cause harm to those unaf filiated parties, which may result in liability to the Company or reputational
harm.
Despite the implementation of security measures, those technology systems could become vulnerable to damage, disability or failures due
to theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events. Certain technology systems may also become vulnerable,
unreliable or inef ficient in cases where technology vendors limit or terminate product support and maintenance. Our increasing reliance on third
party systems also present the risks faced by the third party’ s business, including the operational, security and credit risks of those parties. If
those systems were to fail or otherwise be unavailable, or if business continuity or disaster recovery plans were not ef fective, and we were unable
to recover in a timely manner , we could experience an interruption in our or our franchisees’ operations.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 32
Furthermore, security incidents or breaches have from time to time occurred and may in the future occur involving our systems, the
systems of the parties we communicate or collaborate with (including franchisees), or those of third party providers. These may include such
things as unauthorized access, phishing attacks, account takeovers, denial of service, computer viruses, introduction of malware or ransomware
and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Our technology systems contain personal, financial and other information that is entrusted to
us by our customers, our employees, our franchisees, our business customers and other third parties, as well as financial, proprietary and other
confidential information related to our business. An actual or alleged security breach could result in disruptions, shutdowns, theft or unauthorized
disclosure of personal, financial, proprietary or other confidential information. The occurrence of any of these incidents could result in reputational
damage, adverse publicity , loss of consumer confidence, reduced sales and profits, complications in executing our growth initiatives and
regulatory and legal risk, including criminal penalties or civil liabilities.
LEGAL AND REGULA TORY
Increasing regulatory and legal complexity may adversely affect our business and financial results.
Our regulatory and legal environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that could af fect our
operations and results in material ways. Many of our markets are subject to increasing, conflicting and highly prescriptive regulations involving,
among other matters, restaurant operations, product packaging, marketing, the nutritional and allergen content and safety of our food and other
products, labeling and other disclosure practices. Compliance ef forts with those regulations may be af fected by ordinary variations in food
preparation among our own restaurants and the need to rely on the accuracy and completeness of information from third-party suppliers. Our
success depends in part on our ability to manage the impact of regulations that can af fect our business plans and operations, and have increased
our costs of doing business and exposure to litigation, governmental investigations or other proceedings.
We are also subject to legal proceedings that may adversely af fect our business, including class actions, administrative proceedings,
government investigations and proceedings, shareholder proceedings, employment and personal injury claims, landlord/ tenant disputes, supplier
related disputes, and claims by current or former franchisees. Regardless of whether claims against us are valid or whether we are found to be
liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert management's attention away from operations.
Litigation and regulatory action concerning our relationship with franchisees and the legal distinction between our franchisees and us for
employment law purposes, if determined adversely , could increase costs, negatively impact our business operations and the business prospects
of our franchisees and subject us to incremental liability for their actions. Similarly , although our commercial relationships with our suppliers
remain independent, there may be attempts to challenge that independence, which, if determined adversely , could also increase costs, negatively
impact the business prospects of our suppliers, and subject us to incremental liability for their actions.
Our results could also be af fected by the following:
•The relative level of our defense costs, which vary from period to period depending on the number , nature and procedural status of
pending proceedings;
•The cost and other ef fects of settlements, judgments or consent decrees, which may require us to make disclosures or take other
actions that may af fect perceptions of our brand and products; and
•Adverse results of pending or future litigation, including litigation challenging the composition and preparation of our products, or the
appropriateness or accuracy of our marketing or other communication practices.
A judgment significantly in excess of any applicable insurance coverage or third party indemnity could materially adversely af fect our
financial condition or results of operations. Further , adverse publicity resulting from claims may hurt our business. If we are unable to ef fectively
manage the risks associated with our complex regulatory and legal environment, it could have a material adverse ef fect on our business and
financial condition.
Changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect the taxes we pay and our profitability .
We are subject to income and other taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, and our operations, plans and results are af fected by tax
and other initiatives around the world. In particular , we are af fected by the impact of changes to tax laws or policy or related authoritative
interpretations. W e are also impacted by settlements of pending or any future adjustments proposed by taxing and governmental authorities
inside and outside of the U.S. in connection with our tax audits, all of which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. Any significant
increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or unfavorable resolution of tax matters could have a material adverse impact on our
financial results.
Changes in accounting standards or the recognition of impairment or other charges may adversely affect our future operations and
results.
New accounting standards or changes in financial reporting requirements, accounting principles or practices, including with respect to our
critical accounting estimates, could adversely af fect our future results. W e may also be af fected by the nature and timing of decisions about
underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that result in impairment or other charges that reduce our earnings. In assessing the
recoverability of our long-lived assets, we consider changes in economic conditions and make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows
and other factors. These estimates are highly subjective and can be significantly impacted by many factors such as global and local business and
economic conditions, operating costs, inflation, competition, consumer and demographic trends, and our restructuring activities. If our estimates
or underlying assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges. If we experience any such changes, they
could have a significant adverse ef fect on our reported results for the af fected periods.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 33
If we fail to comply with privacy and data collection laws, we could be subject to legal proceedings and penalties, which could
negatively affect our financial results or brand perceptions.
We are subject to legal and compliance risks and associated liability related to privacy and data collection, protection and management, as
it relates to information associated with our technology-related services and platforms made available to business partners, customers,
employees, franchisees or other third parties. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) requires entities processing the
personal data of individuals in the European Union to meet certain requirements regarding the handling of that data. W e are also subject to U.S.
federal and state and foreign laws and regulations in this area such as the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCP A”). These regulations have
been subject to frequent change, and there may be markets or jurisdictions that propose or enact new or emerging data privacy requirements in
the future. Failure to comply with GDPR, CCP A or other privacy and data collection laws could result in legal proceedings and substantial
penalties, and materially adversely impact our financial results or brand perceptions.
MACROECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS
Unfavorable general economic conditions could adversely affect our business and financial results.
Our results of operations are substantially af fected by economic conditions, which can vary significantly by market and can impact
consumer disposable income levels and spending habits. Economic conditions can also be impacted by a variety of factors including hostilities,
epidemics, pandemics and actions taken by governments to manage national and international economic matters, whether through austerity ,
stimulus measures or trade measures, and initiatives intended to control wages, unemployment, credit availability , inflation, taxation and other
economic drivers. Sustained adverse economic conditions or periodic adverse changes in economic conditions in our markets could pressure our
operating performance and our business continuity disruption planning, and our business and financial results may suf fer.
Our results of operations are also af fected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates and unfavorable currency fluctuations could
adversely af fect reported earnings.
Changes in commodity and other operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations.
The profitability of our Company-operated restaurants depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in commodity costs,
including food, paper , supplies, fuel, utilities and distribution, and other operating costs, including labor . Any volatility in certain commodity prices
or fluctuation in labor costs could adversely af fect our operating results by impacting restaurant profitability . The commodity markets for some of
the ingredients we use, such as beef and chicken, are particularly volatile due to factors such as seasonal shifts, climate conditions, industry
demand, international commodity markets, food safety concerns, product recalls and government regulation, all of which are beyond our control
and, in many instances, unpredictable. W e can only partially address future price risk through hedging and other activities, and therefore
increases in commodity costs could have an adverse impact on our profitability .
A decrease in our credit ratings or an increase in our funding costs could adversely affect our profitability .
Our credit ratings may be negatively af fected by our results of operations or changes in our debt levels. As a result, our interest expense,
the availability of acceptable counterparties, our ability to obtain funding on favorable terms, collateral requirements and our operating or financial
flexibility could all be negatively af fected, especially if lenders impose new operating or financial covenants.
Our operations may also be impacted by regulations af fecting capital flows, financial markets or financial institutions, which can limit our
ability to manage and deploy our liquidity or increase our funding costs. If any of these events were to occur , they could have a material adverse
effect on our business and financial condition.
Trading volatility and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected by many factors.
Many factors af fect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. The most important of
these factors, some of which are outside our control, are the following:
•The unpredictable nature of global economic and market conditions;
•Governmental action or inaction in light of key indicators of economic activity or events that can significantly influence financial markets,
particularly in the U.S., which is the principal trading market for our common stock, and media reports and commentary about economic,
trade or other matters, even when the matter in question does not directly relate to our business;
•Trading activity in our common stock or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our common stock or debt securities,
which can be af fected by market commentary (including commentary that may be unreliable or incomplete); unauthorized disclosures
about our performance, plans or expectations about our business; our actual performance and creditworthiness; investor confidence,
driven in part by expectations about our performance; actions by shareholders and others seeking to influence our business strategies;
portfolio transactions in our stock by significant shareholders; or trading activity that results from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock
indices in which McDonald’ s may be included, such as the S&P 500 Index and the Dow Jones Industrial A verage;
•The impact of our stock repurchase program or dividend rate; and
•The impact on our results of corporate actions and market and third-party perceptions and assessments of such actions, such as those
we may take from time to time as we implement our strategies, including through acquisitions, in light of changing business, legal and
tax considerations and evolve our corporate structure.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 34
Events such as severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, among others, can adversely affect our
results and prospects.
Severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, climate change or terrorist activities (or expectations about
them) can adversely af fect consumer spending and confidence levels and supply availability and costs, as well as the local operations in
impacted markets, all of which can af fect our results and prospects. Our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to
some of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insuf ficient to cover our losses fully .
 
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
The Company has pending a number of lawsuits that have been filed in various jurisdictions. These lawsuits cover a broad variety of allegations
spanning the Company’ s entire business. The following is a brief description of the more significant types of claims and lawsuits. In addition, the
Company is subject to various national and local laws and regulations that impact various aspects of its business, as discussed below . While the
Company does not believe that any such claims, lawsuits or regulations will have a material adverse ef fect on its financial condition or results of
operations, unfavorable rulings could occur . Were an unfavorable ruling to occur , there exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on net
income for the period in which the ruling occurs or for future periods.
▪Franchising
A substantial number of McDonald’ s restaurants are franchised to independent owner/operators and developmental licensees under contractual
arrangements with the Company . In the course of the franchise relationship, occasional disputes arise between the Company and its current or
former franchisees relating to a broad range of subjects including, but not limited to, quality , service and cleanliness issues, menu pricing,
contentions regarding grants or terminations of franchises, alleged discrimination, delinquent payments of rents and fees, and franchisee claims
for additional franchises or renewals of franchises. Additionally , occasional disputes arise between the Company and individuals who claim they
should have been granted a McDonald’ s franchise or who challenge the legal distinction between the Company and its franchisees for
employment law purposes.
▪Suppliers
The Company and its af filiates and subsidiaries generally do not supply food, paper or related items to any McDonald’ s restaurants. The
Company relies upon numerous independent suppliers, including service providers, that are required to meet and maintain the Company’ s high
standards and specifications. On occasion, disputes arise between the Company and its suppliers (or former suppliers) which include, for
example, compliance with product specifications and the Company’ s business relationship with suppliers. In addition, disputes occasionally arise
on a number of issues between the Company and individuals or entities who claim that they should be (or should have been) granted the
opportunity to supply products or services to the Company’ s restaurants.
▪Employees
Hundreds of thousands of people are employed by the Company and in restaurants owned and operated by subsidiaries of the Company . In
addition, thousands of people from time to time seek employment in such restaurants. In the ordinary course of business, disputes arise
regarding hiring, termination, promotion and pay practices, including wage and hour disputes, alleged discrimination and compliance with labor
and employment laws.
▪Customers
Restaurants owned by subsidiaries of the Company regularly serve a broad segment of the public as do independent owner/operators and
developmental licensees of McDonald's restaurants. In so doing, disputes arise as to products, service, incidents, pricing, advertising, nutritional
and other disclosures, as well as other matters common to an extensive restaurant business such as that of the Company .
▪Intellectual Property
The Company has registered trademarks and service marks, patents and copyrights, some of which are of material importance to the Company’ s
business. From time to time, the Company may become involved in litigation to protect its intellectual property and defend against the alleged use
of third party intellectual property . 
▪Government Regulations
Local and national governments have adopted laws and regulations involving various aspects of the restaurant business including, but not limited
to, advertising, franchising, health, safety , environment, competition, zoning, employment and taxation. The Company is occasionally involved in
litigation or other proceedings regarding these matters. The Company strives to comply with all applicable existing statutory and administrative
rules and cannot predict the ef fect on its operations from these matters or the issuance of additional requirements in the future.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 35
PROPERTIES
The Company owns and leases real estate primarily in connection with its restaurant business. The Company identifies and develops sites that
offer convenience to customers and long-term sales and profit potential to the System. T o assess potential, the Company analyzes traf fic and
walking patterns, census data and other relevant data. The Company’ s experience and access to advanced technology aid in evaluating this
information. The Company generally owns or secures a long-term lease on the land and building for conventional franchised and Company-
operated restaurant sites, which facilitates long-term occupancy rights and helps control related costs. Restaurant profitability for both the
Company and franchisees is important; therefore, ongoing ef forts are made to control average development costs through construction and
design ef ficiencies, standardization and by leveraging the Company’ s global sourcing network.
In addition, the Company primarily leases real estate in connection with its corporate headquarters, field and other of fices.
Additional information about the Company’ s properties is included in Management’ s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations on pages 8 through 25  and in Financial Statements and Supplementary Data on pages 38 through 59 of this Form 10-K.
INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
The following are the Executive Of ficers of our Company (as of the date of this filing):
Ian Borden , 52, is President, International, a position he has held since January 2020. Prior to that, Mr . Borden served as President -
International Developmental Licensed Markets, from January 2019 through December 2019. Prior to that, Mr . Borden served as President -
Foundational Markets, from July 2015 through December 2018. Mr . Borden has served the Company for 26 years.
Heidi Capozzi , 51, is Corporate Executive V ice President - Chief People Of ficer, a position she has held since April 2020. Prior to joining the
Company , Ms. Capozzi served as Senior V ice President of Human Resources for The Boeing Company from 2016 to April 2020.
Francesca A. DeBiase , 55, is Corporate Executive V ice President - Global Chief Supply Chain Of ficer, a position she has held since October
2020. Prior to that, Ms. DeBiase served as Corporate Executive V ice President - W orldwide Supply Chain and Sustainability , from April 2018
through October 2020 and Corporate Senior V ice President - W orldwide Supply Chain and Sustainability , from March 2015 through March 2018.
Ms. DeBiase has served the Company for 29 years.
Joseph Erlinger , 47, is President, McDonald's USA, a position he has held since November 2019. Prior to that, Mr . Erlinger served as
President - International Operated Markets, from January 2019 through October 2019 and President - High Growth Markets, from September
2016 through December 2018. From March 2015 to January 2017, Mr . Erlinger served as V ice President and Chief Financial Of ficer - High
Growth Markets (serving in dual roles from September 2016 through January 2017). Mr . Erlinger has served the Company for nearly 19 years.
Katherine Beirne Fallon , 45, is Corporate Executive V ice President - Chief Global Impact Of ficer, a position she has held since October 2020.
Prior to joining the Company , Ms. Fallon served as Executive V ice President, Global Corporate Af fairs for Hilton.
Daniel Henry , 50, is Corporate Executive V ice President - Chief Information Of ficer, a position he has held since May 2018. From October
2017 through April 2018, Mr . Henry served as Corporate V ice President - Chief Information Of ficer. Prior to that, Mr . Henry served as V ice
President of Customer T echnology and Enterprise Architecture at American Airlines from April 2012 to October 2017. Mr . Henry has served the
Company for 3 years.
Catherine Hoovel , 49, is Corporate V ice President - Chief Accounting Of ficer, a position she has held since October 2016. Ms. Hoovel served
as Controller for the McDonald's restaurants owned and operated by McDonald's USA from April 2014 to September 2016. Ms. Hoovel has
served the Company for nearly 25 years.
Christopher Kempczinski , 52, is President and Chief Executive Of ficer, a position he has held since November 2019. Prior to that, Mr .
Kempczinski served as President, McDonald’ s USA from December 2016 through October 2019 and Corporate Executive V ice President -
Strategy , Business Development and Innovation, from October 2015 through December 2016. Mr. Kempczinski joined the Company from Kraft
Heinz, where he most recently served as Executive V ice President of Growth Initiatives and President of Kraft International from December 2014
to September 2015. Mr . Kempczinski has served the Company for 5 years.
Kevin Ozan , 57, is Corporate Executive V ice President and Chief Financial Of ficer, a position he has held since March 2015. From February
2008 through February 2015, Mr . Ozan served as Corporate Senior V ice President - Controller . Mr. Ozan has served the Company for 23 years.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 36
AVAILABILITY OF COMPANY INFORMATION
The Company is subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act"). The Company therefore files
periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports may be obtained by visiting the SEC's website at
www .sec.gov .
Financial and other information can also be accessed on the investor section of the Company’ s website at www .investor .mcdonalds.com.
The Company uses this website as a primary channel for disclosing key information to its investors, some of which may contain material and
previously non-public information. The Company makes available, free of charge, copies of its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange
Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. Copies of financial and other
information are also available free of charge by calling (800) 228-9623.
Also posted on McDonald’ s website are the Company’ s Corporate Governance Principles; the charters for each of the Committees of the
Board of Directors, including the Audit and Finance Committee, Compensation Committee, Governance Committee, Public Policy and Strategy
Committee and Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee; the Code of Conduct for the Board of Directors; and the Company’ s
Standards of Business Conduct, which applies to all of ficers and employees. Copies of these documents are also available free of charge by
calling (800) 228-9623.
Information on the Company’ s website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K or the Company’ s other securities filings unless expressly
noted.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
Index to consolidated financial statements Page reference
Consolidated statement of income for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020 38
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020 39
Consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2020 and 2019 40
Consolidated statement of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020 41
Consolidated statement of shareholders’ equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020 42
Notes to consolidated financial statements 43
Management’ s assessment of internal control over financial reporting 60
Report of independent registered public accounting firm 61
Report of independent registered public accounting firm on internal control over financial reporting 63
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 37
Consolidated Statement of Income  
In millions, except per share data Years ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018
REVENUES
Sales by Company-operated restaurants $ 8,139.2 $ 9,420.8 $10,012.7 
Revenues from franchised restaurants 10,726.1 11,655.7 11,012.5 
Other revenues 342.5 287.9 232.7 
Total revenues 19,207.8 21,364.4 21,257.9 
OPERATING COSTS AND EXPENSES
Company-operated restaurant expenses
Food & paper 2,564.2 2,980.3 3,153.8 
Payroll & employee benefits 2,416.4 2,704.4 2,937.9 
Occupancy & other operating expenses 2,000.6 2,075.9 2,174.2 
Franchised restaurants-occupancy expenses 2,207.5 2,200.6 1,973.3 
Other restaurant expenses 267.0 223.8 186.1 
Selling, general & administrative expenses
Depreciation and amortization 300.6 262.5 214.8 
Other 2,245.0 1,966.9 1,985.4 
Other operating (income) expense, net (117.5) (119.8) (190.2)
Total operating costs and expenses 11,883.8 12,294.6 12,435.3 
Operating income 7,324.0 9,069.8 8,822.6 
Interest expense-net of capitalized interest of $6.0, $7.4 and $5.6 1,218.1 1,121.9 981.2 
Nonoperating (income) expense, net (34.8) (70.2) 25.3 
Income before provision for income taxes 6,140.7 8,018.1 7,816.1 
Provision for income taxes 1,410.2 1,992.7 1,891.8 
Net income $ 4,730.5 $ 6,025.4 $ 5,924.3 
Earnings per common share–basic $ 6.35 $ 7.95 $ 7.61 
Earnings per common share–diluted $ 6.31 $ 7.88 $ 7.54 
Dividends declared per common share $ 5.04 $ 4.73 $ 4.19 
Weighted-average shares outstanding–basic 744.6 758.1 778.2 
Weighted-average shares outstanding–diluted 750.1 764.9 785.6 
See Notes to consolidated financial statements.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 38
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
In millions Years ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018
Net income $4,730.5 $6,025.4 $5,924.3 
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax
Foreign currency translation adjustments:
Gain (loss) recognized in accumulated other comprehensive
income (AOCI), including net investment hedges 46.0 127.5 (453.6)
Reclassification of (gain) loss to net income 17.1 46.8 — 
Foreign currency translation adjustments-net of tax
benefit (expense) of $204.8, $(55.4), and $(90.7) 63.1 174.3 (453.6)
Cash flow hedges:
Gain (loss) recognized in AOCI (129.1) 17.3 46.5 
Reclassification of (gain) loss to net income 5.8 (37.7) 2.4 
Cash flow hedges-net of tax benefit (expense) of $36.6, $6.1, and $(14.5) (123.3) (20.4) 48.9 
Defined benefit pension plans:
Gain (loss) recognized in AOCI (43.5) (24.5) (27.0)
Reclassification of (gain) loss to net income (0.4) (2.6) 0.6 
Defined benefit pension plans-net of tax benefit (expense)
of $9.3, $5.2, and $4.3 (43.9) (27.1) (26.4)
Total other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax (104.1) 126.8 (431.1)
Comprehensive income $4,626.4 $6,152.2 $5,493.2 
See Notes to consolidated financial statements.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 39
Consolidated Balance Sheet
In millions, except per share data December 31, 2020 2019
ASSETS
Current assets
Cash and equivalents $3,449.1 $ 898.5 
Accounts and notes receivable 2,110.3 2,224.2 
Inventories, at cost, not in excess of market 51.1 50.2 
Prepaid expenses and other current assets 632.7 385.0 
Total current assets 6,243.2 3,557.9 
Other assets
Investments in and advances to affiliates 1,297.2 1,270.3 
Goodwill 2,773.1 2,677.4 
Miscellaneous 3,527.4 2,584.0 
Total other assets 7,597.7 6,531.7 
Lease right-of-use asset, net 13,827.7 13,261.2 
Property and equipment
Property and equipment, at cost 41,476.5 39,050.9 
Accumulated depreciation and amortization (16,518.3) (14,890.9)
Net property and equipment 24,958.2 24,160.0 
Total assets $52,626.8 $47,510.8 
LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Current liabilities
Accounts payable $ 741.3 $ 988.2 
Lease liability 701.5 621.0 
Income taxes 741.1 331.7 
Other taxes 227.0 247.5 
Accrued interest 388.4 337.8 
Accrued payroll and other liabilities 1,138.3 1,035.7 
Current maturities of long-term debt 2,243.6 59.1 
Total current liabilities 6,181.2 3,621.0 
Long-term debt 35,196.8 34,118.1 
Long-term lease liability 13,321.3 12,757.8 
Long-term income taxes 1,970.7 2,265.9 
Deferred revenues - initial franchise fees 702.0 660.6 
Other long-term liabilities 1,054.1 979.6 
Deferred income taxes 2,025.6 1,318.1 
Shareholders’ equity (deficit)
Preferred stock, no par value; authorized – 165.0 million shares; issued – none — — 
Common stock, $.01 par value; authorized – 3.5 billion shares; issued – 1,660.6 million shares 16.6 16.6 
Additional paid-in capital 7,903.6 7,653.9 
Retained earnings 53,908.1 52,930.5 
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (2,586.8) (2,482.7)
Common stock in treasury, at cost; 915.2 and 914.3 million shares (67,066.4) (66,328.6)
Total shareholders’ equity (deficit) (7,824.9) (8,210.3)
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity (deficit) $52,626.8 $47,510.8 
See Notes to consolidated financial statements.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 40
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
In millions Years ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018
Operating activities
Net income $4,730.5 $6,025.4 $5,924.3 
Adjustments to reconcile to cash provided by operations
Charges and credits:
Depreciation and amortization 1,751.4 1,617.9 1,482.0 
Deferred income taxes 6.4 149.7 102.6 
Share-based compensation 92.4 109.6 125.1 
Net gain on sale of restaurant businesses (28.2) (128.2) (308.8)
Other (75.2) 49.2 114.2 
Changes in working capital items:
Accounts receivable (6.8) 27.0 (479.4)
Inventories, prepaid expenses and other current assets (68.6) 128.8 (1.9)
Accounts payable (137.5) (26.8) 129.4 
Income taxes (43.6) 173.4 (33.4)
Other accrued liabilities 44.4 (3.9) (87.4)
Cash provided by operations 6,265.2 8,122.1 6,966.7 
Investing activities
Capital expenditures (1,640.8) (2,393.7) (2,741.7)
Purchases of restaurant and other businesses (66.1) (540.9) (101.7)
Sales of restaurant businesses 76.3 340.8 530.8 
Sales of property 27.4 151.2 160.4 
Other 57.4 (628.5) (302.9)
Cash used for investing activities (1,545.8) (3,071.1) (2,455.1)
Financing activities
Net short-term borrowings (893.1) 799.2 95.9 
Long-term financing issuances 5,543.0 4,499.0 3,794.5 
Long-term financing repayments (2,411.7) (2,061.9) (1,759.6)
Treasury stock purchases (907.8) (4,976.2) (5,207.7)
Common stock dividends (3,752.9) (3,581.9) (3,255.9)
Proceeds from stock option exercises 295.5 350.5 403.2 
Other (122.0) (23.5) (20.0)
Cash used for financing activities (2,249.0) (4,994.8) (5,949.6)
Effect of exchange rates on cash and equivalents 80.2 (23.7) (159.8)
Cash and equivalents increase (decrease) 2,550.6 32.5 (1,597.8)
Cash and equivalents at beginning of year 898.5 866.0 2,463.8 
Cash and equivalents at end of year $3,449.1 $ 898.5 $ 866.0 
Supplemental cash flow disclosures
Interest paid $1,136.0 $1,066.5 $ 959.6 
Income taxes paid 1,441.9 1,589.7 1,734.4 
See Notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 41
Consolidated Statement of Shareholders’ Equity
 Common stock
 issued Accumulated other
 comprehensive income (loss)
Common stock in
 treasuryTotal
 shareholders’
 equity (deficit)Additional
 paid-in
 capitalRetained
 earningsPensionsCash flow
 hedgesForeign
 currency
 translation In millions, except per share data SharesAmount Shares Amount
Balance at December 31, 2017 1,660.6 $16.6 $7,072.4 $48,325.8 $(190.2)$(16.5)$(1,971.7) (866.5)$(56,504.4)$ (3,268.0)
Net income    5,924.3      5,924.3 
Other comprehensive income
(loss),
net of tax    (26.4) 48.9 (453.6)  (431.1)
Comprehensive income          5,493.2 
Adoption of ASC 606 (450.2) (450.2)
Adoption of ASU 2016-16 (57.0) (57.0)
Common stock cash dividends
($4.19 per share)    (3,255.9)     (3,255.9)
Treasury stock purchases        (32.2) (5,247.5) (5,247.5)
Share-based compensation   125.1       125.1 
Stock option exercises and other  178.5    5.2 223.4 401.9 
Balance at December 31, 2018 1,660.6 16.6 7,376.0 50,487.0 (216.6) 32.4 (2,425.3) (893.5) (61,528.5) (6,258.4)
Net income    6,025.4      6,025.4 
Other comprehensive income
(loss),
net of tax     (27.1) (20.4) 174.3   126.8 
Comprehensive income          6,152.2 
Common stock cash dividends
($4.73 per share)    (3,581.9)     (3,581.9)
Treasury stock purchases        (25.0) (4,980.5) (4,980.5)
Share-based compensation   109.6       109.6 
Stock option exercises and other  168.3    4.2 180.4 348.7 
Balance at December 31, 2019 1,660.6 16.6 7,653.9 52,930.5 (243.7) 12.0 (2,251.0) (914.3) (66,328.6) (8,210.3)
Net income    4,730.5      4,730.5 
Other comprehensive income
(loss),
net of tax     (43.9) (123.3) 63.1   (104.1)
Comprehensive income          4,626.4 
Common stock cash dividends
($5.04 per share)    (3,752.9)     (3,752.9)
Treasury stock purchases        (4.3) (874.1) (874.1)
Share-based compensation   92.4       92.4 
Stock option exercises and other  157.3    3.4 136.3 293.6 
Balance at December 31, 2020 1,660.6 $16.6 $7,903.6 $53,908.1 $(287.6)$(111.3)$(2,187.9) (915.2)$(67,066.4)$ (7,824.9)
(1) Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, "Revenue Recognition - Revenue from Contracts with Customers."
(2) Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-16, "Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory."
See Notes to consolidated financial statements.(1)
(2)
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 42
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
NATURE OF BUSINESS
The Company franchises and operates McDonald’ s restaurants in the global restaurant industry . All restaurants are operated either by the
Company or by franchisees, including conventional franchisees under franchised arrangements, and developmental licensees or af filiates under
license agreements.
The following table presents restaurant information by ownership type:
Restaurants at December 31, 2020 2019 2018
Conventional franchised 21,712  21,837  21,685  
Developmental licensed 7,663  7,648  7,225  
Foreign af filiated 7,146  6,574  6,175  
    Total Franchised 36,521  36,059  35,085  
    Company-operated 2,677  2,636  2,770  
        T otal Systemwide restaurants 39,198  38,695  37,855  
The results of operations of restaurant businesses purchased and sold in transactions with franchisees were not material either individually
or in the aggregate to the consolidated financial statements for periods prior to purchase and sale.
BASIS OF PRESENTATION
Prior to January 1, 2020, the Company presented both expenditures and receipts related to technology fees charged to franchisees and revenues
related to certain licensing arrangements within Other operating (income) expense, net, because these activities were not part of the Company’ s
ongoing major or central operations. Ef fective January 1, 2020, the Company is presenting the revenues and expenses related to these activities
within Other revenues and Other restaurant expenses, respectively , in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The change in presentation was
applied retrospectively to all periods presented and had no ef fect on Operating income, Net income, or Earnings per share.
CONSOLIDATION
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries. Investments in af filiates owned 50% or less
(primarily McDonald’ s China and Japan) are accounted for by the equity method.
On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its business relationships such as those with franchisees, joint venture partners,
developmental licensees, suppliers and advertising cooperatives to identify potential variable interest entities. Generally , these businesses qualify
for a scope exception under the variable interest entity consolidation guidance. The Company has concluded that consolidation of any such entity
is not appropriate for the periods presented.
ESTIMATES IN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that af fect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could dif fer from
those estimates.
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
Generally , the functional currency of operations outside the U.S. is the respective local currency .
RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
Financial Instruments - Credit Losses
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("F ASB") issued guidance codified in ASC T opic 326, "Financial Instruments – Credit
Losses: Measurements of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments". The standard replaces the incurred loss impairment methodology in prior
GAAP with a methodology that instead reflects a current estimate of all expected credit losses on financial assets, including receivables. The
guidance requires that an entity measure and recognize expected credit losses at the time the asset is recorded, while considering a broader
range of information to estimate credit losses including country specific macroeconomic conditions that correlate with historical loss experience,
delinquency trends and aging behavior of receivables, among others. The Company adopted this guidance ef fective January 1, 2020,
prospectively , and the adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. The Company had an
Allowance for bad debts of $ 55.3 million as of December 31, 2020 recorded as a reduction to Accounts and notes receivable on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Y et Adopted
Income T axes
In December 2019, the F ASB issued ASU 2019-12, “Income T axes (T opic 740): Simplifying the Accounting for Income T axes” (“ASU 2019-12”),
which simplifies the accounting for income taxes. ASU 2019-12 is ef fective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020, including
applicable interim periods. The Company anticipates the adoption of ASU 2019-12 will not have a material impact on its consolidated financial
statements.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 43
Reference Rate Reform
In March 2020, the F ASB issued ASU 2020-04, "Reference Rate Reform (T opic 848): Facilitation of the Ef fects of Reference Rate Reform on
Financial Reporting". The pronouncement provides temporary optional expedients and exceptions to the current guidance on contract
modifications and hedge accounting to ease the financial reporting burdens related to the expected market transition from the London Interbank
Offered Rate and other interbank of fered rates to alternative reference rates. The guidance was ef fective upon issuance and may be applied
prospectively to contract modifications made and hedging relationships entered into or evaluated on or before December 31, 2022. The adoption
of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
REVENUE RECOGNITION
The Company's revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees, developmental
licensees and af filiates. Revenues from conventional franchised restaurants include rent and royalties based on a percent of sales with minimum
rent payments, and initial fees. Revenues from restaurants licensed to developmental licensees and af filiates include a royalty based on a
percent of sales, and generally include initial fees. The Company’ s Other revenues are comprised of fees paid by franchisees to recover a portion
of costs incurred by the Company for various technology platforms, revenues from brand licensing arrangements to market and sell consumer
packaged goods using the McDonald’ s brand, and third party revenues for the Dynamic Y ield business.
Sales by Company-operated restaurants are recognized on a cash basis at the time of the underlying sale and are presented net of sales tax
and other sales-related taxes. Royalty revenues are based on a percent of sales and recognized at the time the underlying sales occur . Rental
income includes both minimum rent payments, which are recognized straight-line over the franchise term (with the exception of rent concessions
as a result of COVID-19 – refer to the Leasing section that follows), and variable rent payments based on a percent of sales, which are
recognized at the time the underlying sales occur . Initial fees are recognized as the Company satisfies the performance obligation over the
franchise term, which is generally 20 years.
The Company provides goods or services related to various technology platforms to certain franchisees that are distinct from the franchise
agreement because they do not require integration with other goods or services we provide. The Company has determined that it is the principal
in these arrangements. Accordingly , the related revenue is presented on a gross basis on the Consolidated Statement of Income. These
revenues are recognized as the goods or services are transferred to the franchisee, and related expenses are recognized as incurred. Brand
licensing arrangement revenues are based on a percent of sales and are recognized at the time the underlying sales occur . Dynamic Y ield third
party revenues are generated from providing software as a service solutions to customers and are recognized over the applicable subscription
period as the service is performed.
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
Property and equipment are stated at cost, with depreciation and amortization provided using the straight-line method over the following
estimated useful lives: buildings–up to 40 years; leasehold improvements– the lesser of useful lives of assets or lease terms , which generally
include certain option periods; and equipment– 3 to 12 years.
The Company periodically reviews these lives relative to physical factors, economic factors and industry trends. If there are changes in the
planned use of property and equipment, or if technological changes occur more rapidly than anticipated, the useful lives assigned to these assets
may need to be shortened, resulting in the accelerated recognition of depreciation and amortization expense or write-of fs in future periods.
The Company may share in the cost of certain restaurant improvements with its franchisees, primarily in the U.S. Since McDonald's
manages the project and provides up front funding in these instances, during the project the Company estimates which costs are the
responsibility of McDonald's and which are the responsibility of the franchisee, and allocates the corresponding costs between Property and
equipment and Accounts receivable. Upon the completion of the project, the allocation of costs is finalized and may result in immaterial
adjustments to the balances and associated depreciation expense.
Refer to the Property and Equipment footnote on page 51 for additional information.
LEASING
The Company is the lessee in a significant real estate portfolio, primarily through ground leases (the Company leases the land and generally
owns the building) and through improved leases (the Company leases the land and buildings). The Lease right-of-use asset and Lease liability
reflect the present value of the Company’ s estimated future minimum lease payments over the lease term, which includes options that are
reasonably assured of being exercised, discounted using the rate implicit in each lease, if determinable, or a collateralized incremental borrowing
rate considering the term of the lease and particular currency environment. Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less, primarily related to
leases of of fice equipment, are not included in the Lease right-or-use asset or Lease liability and continue to be recognized in the Consolidated
Statement of Income on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Company has elected not to separate non-lease components from lease components in our lessee portfolio. T o the extent that
occupancy costs, such as site maintenance, are included in the asset and liability , the impact is immaterial and is generally limited to Company-
owned restaurant locations. For franchised locations, which represent the majority of the restaurant portfolio, the related occupancy costs
including property taxes, insurance and site maintenance are generally required to be paid by the franchisees as part of the franchise
arrangement. In addition, the Company is the lessee under non-restaurant related leases such as of fice buildings, vehicles and of fice equipment.
These leases are not a material subset of the Company’ s lease portfolio.
The F ASB issued guidance for how companies may account for COVID-19 related rent concessions in the form of F ASB staf f and Board
members’ remarks at the April 8, 2020 public meeting and the F ASB Staf f Q&A issued on April 10, 2020.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 44
The Company elected the practical expedient to account for COVID-19 related rent concessions as if they were part of the enforceable rights
and obligations of the parties under the existing lease contract. This was elected for the Company’ s entire lessee and lessor portfolio for any rent
deferrals or rent abatements. For the lessee portfolio, the Company elected not to remeasure the Lease right- of-use asset and Lease liability if a
rent deferral or a rent abatement is granted. Refer to the Leasing Arrangements footnotes on page 52 of this Form 10-K for additional information
on the Lease right-of-use asset and Lease liability .
The Company deferred collection of approximately $ 490 million of rental income on revenue that was recognized in 2020, and has collected
over 80% of these deferrals as of December 31, 2020. Rental income includes both minimum rent payments and variable rent payments based
on a percent of sales.
Refer to the Franchise Arrangements footnote on page 51 of this Form 10-K for additional information on deferred collections of rental
income as well as royalties.
CAPITALIZED SOFTWARE
Capitalized software is stated at cost and amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the software, which primarily
ranges from 2 to 7 years. Customer facing software is typically amortized over a shorter useful life, while back of fice and Corporate systems may
have a longer useful life. Capitalized software less accumulated amortization is recorded within Miscellaneous other assets on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet and was (in millions): 2020-$ 691.2 ; 2019-$ 665.4 ; 2018-$ 609.7 .
The Company reviews capitalized software for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount
of an asset may not be recoverable or if an indicator of impairment exists, which occurs more regularly throughout the year , such as when new
software may be ready for its intended use. Results for the year ended 2020 reflected write-of fs of impaired software that were no longer being
used of $ 26.3 million.
LONG-LIVED ASSETS
Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment annually in the fourth quarter and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. For purposes of annually reviewing McDonald’ s restaurant assets for potential impairment,
assets are initially grouped together in the U.S. at a field of fice level, and internationally , at a market level. The Company manages its restaurants
as a group or portfolio with significant common costs and promotional activities; as such, an individual restaurant’ s cash flows are not generally
independent of the cash flows of others in a market. If an indicator of impairment exists for any grouping of assets, an estimate of undiscounted
future cash flows produced by each individual restaurant within the asset grouping is compared to its carrying value. If an individual restaurant is
determined to be impaired, the loss is measured by the excess of the carrying amount of the restaurant over its fair value as determined by an
estimate of discounted future cash flows.
Losses on assets held for disposal are recognized when management and the Board of Directors, as required, have approved and
committed to a plan to dispose of the assets, the assets are available for disposal and the disposal is probable of occurring within 12 months, and
the net sales proceeds are expected to be less than its net book value, among other factors. Generally , such losses are related to restaurants
that have closed and ceased operations as well as other assets that meet the criteria to be considered “held for sale" .
GOODWILL
Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the net tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets of acquired restaurants and other
businesses. The Company's goodwill primarily results from purchases of McDonald's restaurants from franchisees and ownership increases in
subsidiaries or af filiates, and it is generally assigned to the reporting unit (defined as each individual market) expected to benefit from the
synergies of the combination. If a Company-operated restaurant is sold within 24 months of acquisition, the goodwill associated with the
acquisition is written of f in its entirety . If a restaurant is sold beyond 24 months from the acquisition, the amount of goodwill written of f is based on
the relative fair value of the business sold compared to the reporting unit.
The following table presents the 2020 activity in goodwill by segment:
In millions U.S.International
 Operated MarketsInternational Developmental
Licensed Markets & Corporate Consolidated
Balance at December 31, 2019 $1,615.8  $1,061.6  $ — $2,677.4  
Business acquisitions 9.8 — — 9.8 
Net restaurant purchases (sales) (0.1) 9.8 — 9.7 
Impairment losses — — — — 
Currency translation — 76.2 — 76.2 
Balance at December 31, 2020 $1,625.5  $1,147.6  $ — $2,773.1  
The Company conducts goodwill impairment testing in the fourth quarter of each year or whenever indicators of impairment exists. If an
indicator of impairment exists, the goodwill impairment test compares the fair value of a reporting unit, generally based on discounted future cash
flows, with its carrying amount including goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recorded
for the dif ference. In the current period, the Company performed a qualitative assessment and did not identify any indicators of impairment.
Historically , goodwill impairment has not significantly impacted the consolidated financial statements. Goodwill on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet reflects accumulated impairment losses of $ 14.5 million and $ 113.9  million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively .
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 45
ADVERTISING COSTS
Advertising costs included in operating expenses of Company-operated restaurants primarily consist of contributions to advertising cooperatives
based upon a percent of sales, and were (in millions): 2020–$ 325.5 ; 2019–$ 365.8 ; 2018–$ 388.8 . The decrease in 2020 is primarily due to lower
sales in the International Operated Markets as a result of COVID-19. Costs related to the Olympics sponsorship are included in the expenses for
2018.
In addition, significant advertising costs are incurred by conventional franchisees through contributions to advertising cooperatives in
individual markets that are also based upon a percent of sales. In the markets that make up the vast majority of the Systemwide advertising
spend, including the U.S., McDonald’ s is not the primary beneficiary of these entities, and therefore has concluded that consolidation would not
be appropriate, as the Company does not have the power through voting or similar rights to direct the activities of the cooperatives that most
significantly impact their economic performance.
Production costs for radio and television advertising are expensed when the commercials are initially aired. These production costs, primarily
in the U.S., as well as other marketing-related expenses are included in Selling, general & administrative expenses and were (in millions): 2020–
$329.2 ; 2019–$ 81.5; 2018–$ 88.0. The increase in 2020 is primarily due to about $175 million of incremental marketing contributions by the
Company to the System's advertising cooperative arrangements across the U.S. and International Operated Markets to accelerate recovery and
drive growth, as well as one-time investments in renewed brand communications as part of the “Serving Here” campaign launch that was
announced with the new growth strategy , Accelerating the Arches .
INCOME TAXES
Income T ax Uncertainties
The Company , like other multi-national companies, is regularly audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, and tax assessments may
arise several years after tax returns have been filed. Accordingly , tax liabilities are recorded when, in management’ s judgment, a tax position
does not meet the more likely than not threshold for recognition. For tax positions that meet the more likely than not threshold, a tax liability may
still be recorded depending on management’ s assessment of how the tax position will ultimately be settled. The Company records interest and
penalties on unrecognized tax benefits in the provision for income taxes.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the tax consequences of temporary dif ferences between the financial reporting basis
and the tax basis of existing assets and liabilities. The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax assets if it is considered
more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. While the Company has considered future taxable
income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax strategies, including the sale of appreciated assets, in assessing the need for the valuation
allowance, if these estimates and assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to adjust its valuation allowance. This could
result in a charge to, or an increase in, income in the period such determination is made.
Refer to the Income T axes footnote on page 53 for additional information .
Accounting for Global Intangible Low-T axed Income ("GIL TI")
The accounting policy of the Company is to record any tax on GIL TI in the provision for income taxes in the year it is incurred.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
The Company measures certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis, and certain non-financial assets and liabilities on
a nonrecurring basis. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most
advantageous market in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. Fair value disclosures are reflected in a
three-level hierarchy , maximizing the use of observable inputs and minimizing the use of unobservable inputs.
The valuation hierarchy is based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability on the measurement date. The three
levels are defined as follows:
▪Level 1 – inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for an identical asset or liability in an active market.
▪Level 2 – inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices for a similar asset or liability in an active market or model-derived
valuations in which all significant inputs are observable for substantially the full term of the asset or liability .
▪Level 3 – inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement of the asset or liability .
Certain of the Company’ s derivatives are valued using various pricing models or discounted cash flow analyses that incorporate observable
market parameters, such as interest rate yield curves, option volatilities and currency rates, classified as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy .
Derivative valuations incorporate credit risk adjustments that are necessary to reflect the probability of default by the counterparty or the
Company . 
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 46
▪Certain Financial Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair V alue
The following tables present financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis by the valuation hierarchy as defined in the
fair value guidance:
December 31, 2020
In millions Level 1 Level 2Carrying
 Value
Derivative assets $ 185.6  $ 41.4 $ 227.0  
Derivative liabilities $ (97.5)$ (97.5)
December 31, 2019
In millions Level 1 Level 2Carrying
 Value
Derivative assets $ 179.1  $ 45.6 $ 224.7  
Derivative liabilities $ (11.3)$ (11.3)
(1)    Level 1 is comprised of derivatives that hedge market driven changes in liabilities associated with the Company’ s supplemental benefit plans.
▪Non-Financial Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair V alue on a Nonrecurring Basis
Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis; that is, the assets and liabilities are not measured at fair value on
an ongoing basis, but are subject to fair value adjustments in certain circumstances (e.g., when there is evidence of impairment). For the year
ended December 31, 2020, the Company did not record any material fair value adjustments to long-lived assets (including goodwill).
▪Certain Financial Assets and Liabilities not Measured at Fair V alue
At December 31, 2020, the fair value of the Company’ s debt obligations was estimated at $ 43.7 billion, compared to a carrying amount of $ 37.4
billion. The fair value was based on quoted market prices, Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy . The carrying amount for both cash equivalents
and notes receivable approximate fair value.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES
The Company is exposed to global market risks, including the ef fect of changes in interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations. The Company
uses foreign currency denominated debt and derivative instruments to mitigate the impact of these changes. The Company does not hold or
issue derivatives for trading purposes.
The Company documents its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking hedging transactions, as well as all relationships
between hedging instruments and hedged items. The Company’ s derivatives that are designated for hedge accounting consist mainly of interest
rate swaps, foreign currency forwards, and cross-currency interest rate swaps, and are classified as either fair value, cash flow or net investment
hedges. Further details are explained in the "Fair V alue," "Cash Flow" and "Net Investment" hedge sections.
The Company enters into certain derivatives that are not designated for hedge accounting. The Company has entered into equity derivative
contracts, including total return swaps, to hedge market-driven changes in certain of its supplemental benefit plan liabilities. The Company has
also entered into certain derivatives to mitigate the share price risk related to its sale of stock in McDonald’ s Japan. In addition, the Company
uses foreign currency forwards to mitigate the change in fair value of certain foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities. Further details
are explained in the “Undesignated Derivatives” section.
All derivatives (including those not designated for hedge accounting) are recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value and
classified based on the instruments’ maturity dates. Changes in the fair value measurements of the derivative instruments are reflected as
adjustments to AOCI and/or current earnings.(1)
(1)
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 47
The following table presents the fair values of derivative instruments included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2020 and
2019:
  Derivative Assets Derivative Liabilities
In millions Balance Sheet Classification 2020 2019 Balance Sheet Classification 2020 2019
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments
Foreign currency Prepaid expenses and other current assets $10.0 Accrued payroll and other liabilities $(64.5)$(5.2)
Interest rate Prepaid expenses and other current assets Accrued payroll and other liabilities — 
Foreign currency Miscellaneous other assets $ 5.6 9.5 Other long-term liabilities (15.0) (1.2)
Interest rate Miscellaneous other assets
 35.8 12.1 Other long-term liabilities — 
Total derivatives designated as hedging instruments $41.4 $31.6  $(79.5)$(6.4)
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments
Equity Prepaid expenses and other current assets $185.6  $ 1.6 Accrued payroll and other liabilities $(8.6)$(0.1)
Foreign currency Prepaid expenses and other current assets 12.4 Accrued payroll and other liabilities (9.4) (4.8)
Equity Miscellaneous other assets 179.1   
Total derivatives not designated as hedging instruments $185.6  $193.1   $(18.0)$(4.9)
Total derivatives $227.0  $224.7   $(97.5)$(11.3)
The following table presents the pre-tax amounts from derivative instruments af fecting income and AOCI for the year ended December 31,
2020 and 2019, respectively:
Location of Gain or Loss
 Recognized in Income on
 DerivativeGain (Loss)
Recognized in 
 AOCIGain (Loss)
Reclassified
 into Income from
AOCIGain (Loss)
Recognized in
 Income on
Derivative
In millions 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
Foreign currency Nonoperating income/expense $ (76.6)$ 22.5 $ (2.1)$ 50.3 
Interest rate Interest expense (90.8) (5.4) (1.3)
Cash flow hedges $(167.4 )$ 22.5 $ (7.5)$ 49.0 
Foreign currency denominated debt Nonoperating income/expense $(989.7 )$ 317.3  $ 33.7 
Foreign currency derivatives Nonoperating income/expense (12.3) 11.8 
Foreign currency derivatives Interest expense $ 14.7 $ 11.7 
Net investment hedges $(1,002.0 )$ 329.1  $ 33.7 $ 14.7 $ 11.7 
Foreign currency Nonoperating income/expense $ (29.0)$ 14.2 
Equity Selling, general &
administrative expenses 44.4 71.8 
Equity Other operating income/
expense, net (16.0)
Undesignated derivatives $ (0.6)$ 86.0 
The amount of gain (loss) recognized in income related to components excluded from effectiveness testing.
Fair V alue Hedges
The Company enters into fair value hedges to reduce the exposure to changes in fair values of certain liabilities. The Company enters into fair
value hedges that convert a portion of its fixed rate debt into floating rate debt by use of interest rate swaps.  At December 31, 2020, the carrying
amount of fixed-rate debt that was ef fectively converted was an equivalent notional amount of $ 1.1 billion, which included an increase of $ 35.8
million of cumulative hedging adjustments. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recognized a $ 23.7 million gain on the fair
value of interest rate swaps, and a corresponding loss on the fair value of the related hedged debt instrument to interest expense.
Cash Flow Hedges
The Company enters into cash flow hedges to reduce the exposure to variability in certain expected future cash flows. T o protect against the
reduction in value of forecasted foreign currency cash flows (such as royalties denominated in foreign currencies), the Company uses foreign
currency forwards to hedge a portion of anticipated exposures. The hedges cover the next 18 months for certain exposures and are denominated
in various currencies. As of December 31, 2020, the Company had derivatives outstanding with an equivalent notional amount of $ 1.2 billion that
hedged a portion of forecasted foreign currency denominated cash flows.
Based on market conditions at December 31, 2020, the $ 111.3  million in cumulative cash flow hedging losses, after tax, is not expected to
have a significant ef fect on earnings over the next 12 months.(1)
(1)
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 48
Net Investment Hedges
The Company primarily uses foreign currency denominated debt (third party and intercompany) to hedge its investments in certain foreign
subsidiaries and af filiates. Realized and unrealized translation adjustments from these hedges are included in shareholders' equity in the foreign
currency translation component of Other comprehensive income ("OCI") and of fset translation adjustments on the underlying net assets of foreign
subsidiaries and af filiates, which also are recorded in OCI. As of December 31, 2020, $ 13.3 billion of the Company's third party foreign currency
denominated debt and $ 843.2  million of intercompany foreign currency denominated debt were designated to hedge investments in certain
foreign subsidiaries and af filiates.
Undesignated Derivatives
The Company enters into certain derivatives that are not designated for hedge accounting, therefore the changes in the fair value of these
derivatives are recognized immediately in earnings together with the gain or loss from the hedged balance sheet position. As an example, the
Company enters into equity derivative contracts, including total return swaps, to hedge market-driven changes in certain of its supplemental
benefit plan liabilities. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recorded in selling, general & administrative expenses together with the
changes in the supplemental benefit plan liabilities. The Company may also use certain derivatives to mitigate the share price risk related to its
sale of stock in McDonald’ s Japan. The changes in the fair value of the undesignated derivatives used for the most recent sale transaction were
recognized immediately in earnings in Other operating (income) expense, net. In addition, the Company uses foreign currency forwards to
mitigate the change in fair value of certain foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities. The changes in the fair value of these derivatives
are recognized in Nonoperating (income) expense, net, along with the currency gain or loss from the hedged balance sheet position.
Credit Risk
The Company is exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by its derivative counterparties. The Company did not have
significant exposure to any individual counterparty at December 31, 2020 and has master agreements that contain netting arrangements. For
financial reporting purposes, the Company presents gross derivative balances in the financial statements and supplementary data, including for
counterparties subject to netting arrangements. Some of these agreements also require each party to post collateral if credit ratings fall below , or
aggregate exposures exceed, certain contractual limits. At December 31, 2020, the Company was required to post an immaterial amount of
collateral due to the negative fair value of certain derivative positions. The Company's counterparties were not required to post collateral on any
derivative position, other than on certain hedges of the Company’ s supplemental benefit plan liabilities where the counterparties were required to
post collateral on their liability positions.
SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION
The Company has a share-based compensation plan, which authorizes the granting of various equity-based incentives including stock options
and restricted stock units (“RSUs”) to employees and nonemployee directors.
Share-based compensation, which includes the portion vesting of all share-based awards granted based on the grant date fair value, is
generally amortized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period in Selling, general & administrative expenses.
The fair value of each stock option granted is estimated on the date of grant using a closed-form pricing model. The pricing model requires
assumptions, which impact the assumed fair value, including the expected life of the stock option, the risk-free interest rate, expected volatility of
the Company’ s stock over the expected life and the expected dividend yield. The Company uses historical data to determine these assumptions
and if these assumptions change significantly for future grants, share-based compensation expense will fluctuate in future years. In addition, the
Company estimates forfeitures when determining the amount of compensation costs to be recognized each period.
The fair value of each RSU granted is equal to the market price of the Company’ s stock at date of grant. For performance-based RSUs, the
Company includes a relative T otal Shareholder Return ("TSR") modifier to determine the number of shares earned at the end of the performance
period. The fair value of performance-based RSUs that include the TSR modifier is determined using a Monte Carlo valuation model.
Refer to the Share-based Compensation footnote on page 58 for additional information.
PER COMMON SHARE INFORMA TION
Diluted earnings per common share is calculated using net income divided by diluted weighted-average shares. Diluted weighted-average shares
include weighted-average shares outstanding plus the dilutive ef fect of share-based compensation calculated using the treasury stock method, of
(in millions of shares): 2020– 5.5; 2019– 6.8; 2018– 7.3. Share-based compensation awards that were not included in diluted weighted-average
shares because they would have been antidilutive were (in millions of shares): 2020– 1.8; 2019– 0.1; 2018– 0.5.
CASH AND EQUIV ALENTS
The Company considers short-term, highly liquid investments with an original maturity of 90 days or less to be cash equivalents.  As of December
31, 2020, Cash and equivalents was $ 3.4 billion, of which $ 2.0 billion consisted of certificates of deposit.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 49
Segment and Geographic Information
Effective January 1, 2019, McDonald’ s operates under an organizational structure with the following global business segments reflecting how
management reviews and evaluates operating performance:
•U.S. - the Company’ s largest market. The segment is 95% franchised as of December 31, 2020.
•International Operated Markets - comprised of markets, or countries in which the Company operates and franchises restaurants,
including Australia, Cana da, France, Germany , Italy, the Netherlands, Russia, Spain and the U.K. The segment is 84% franchised as of
December 31, 2020.
•International Developmental Licensed Markets & Corporate - comprised primarily of developmental licensee and affiliate markets in the
McDonald’ s system. Corporate activities are also reported in this segment. The segment is 98% franchised as of December 31, 2020.
In April and October 2019, the Company completed the acquisitions of Dynamic Yield and Apprente, respectively . The related financial
performance is reflected within the International Developmental Licensed Markets & Corporate segment from the dates of acquisition.
All intercompany revenues and expenses are eliminated in computing revenues and operating income. Corporate general and administrative
expenses consist of home of fice support costs in areas such as facilities, finance, human resources, information technology , legal, marketing,
restaurant operations, supply chain and training. Corporate assets include corporate cash and equivalents, asset portions of financial instruments
and home of fice facilities.
In millions 2020 2019 2018
U.S. $ 7,828.5  $ 8,002.8  $ 7,798.7  
International Operated Markets 9,570.7  11,480.1  11,578.1  
International Developmental Licensed Markets & Corporate 1,808.6  1,881.5  1,881.1  
Total revenues $ 19,207.8  $ 21,364.4  $ 21,257.9  
U.S. $ 3,789.1  $ 4,068.7  $ 4,015.6  
International Operated Markets 3,315.1  4,789.0  4,643.2  
International Developmental Licensed Markets & Corporate 219.8  212.1  163.8  
Total operating income $ 7,324.0  $ 9,069.8  $ 8,822.6  
U.S. $ 21,010.0  $ 21,376.9  $ 14,483.8  
International Operated Markets 24,744.0  22,847.5  17,302.3  
International Developmental Licensed Markets & Corporate 6,872.8  3,286.4  1,025.1  
Total assets * $ 52,626.8  $ 47,510.8  $ 32,811.2  
U.S. $ 890.4  $ 1,480.5  $ 1,849.8  
International Operated Markets 731.5  886.6  762.4  
International Developmental Licensed Markets & Corporate 18.9 26.6 129.5  
Total capital expenditures $ 1,640.8  $ 2,393.7  $ 2,741.7  
U.S. $ 813.8  $ 730.2  $ 598.4  
International Operated Markets 678.5  669.3  703.9  
International Developmental Licensed Markets & Corporate 259.1  218.4  179.7  
Total depreciation and amortization $ 1,751.4  $ 1,617.9  $ 1,482.0  
* Total assets increased from 2018 to 2019 primarily due to the Company's Lease right-of-use asset recorded as a result of the adoption of ASC 842.
Total long-lived assets, primarily property and equipment and beginning in 2019, the Company's Lease right-of-use asset, were (in millions)–
Consolidated: 2020–$ 39,696.3 ; 2019–$ 38,291.5 ; U.S. based: 2020–$ 19,509.7 ; 2019–$ 19,487.6 .
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 50
Property and Equipment
Net property and equipment consisted of:
In millions 'December 31,  2020 2019
Land $ 6,349.1  $ 6,026.4  
Buildings and improvements on owned land 18,218.9  17,003.7  
Buildings and improvements on leased land 13,364.5  12,605.9  
Equipment, signs and seating 3,119.0  2,994.5  
Other 425.0  420.4  
Property and equipment, at cost 41,476.5  39,050.9  
Accumulated depreciation and amortization (16,518.3 ) (14,890.9 )
Net property and equipment $ 24,958.2  $ 24,160.0  
Depreciation and amortization expense for property and equipment was (in millions): 2020–$ 1,469.4 ; 2019–$ 1,392.2 ; 2018–$ 1,302.9 .
Franchise Arrangements
Conventional franchise arrangements generally include a lease and a license and provide for payment of initial fees, as well as continuing rent
and royalties to the Company based upon a percent of sales with minimum rent payments. Minimum rent payments are based on the Company's
underlying investment in owned sites and parallel the Company’ s underlying leases and escalations on properties that are leased. Under the
franchise arrangement, franchisees are granted the right to operate a restaurant using the McDonald’ s System and, in most cases, the use of a
restaurant facility , generally for a period of 20 years. At the end of the 20-year franchise arrangement, the Company maintains control of the
underlying real estate and building and can either enter into a new 20-year franchise arrangement with the existing franchisee or a dif ferent
franchisee, or close the restaurant. Franchisees generally pay related occupancy costs including property taxes, insurance and site maintenance.
Developmental licensees and af filiates operating under license agreements pay a royalty to the Company based upon a percent of sales,
and generally pay initial fees.
McDonald’ s has elected to allocate consideration in the franchise contract among lease and non-lease components in the same manner that
it has historically: rental income (lease), royalty income (non-lease) and initial fee income (non-lease). This disaggregation and presentation of
revenue is based on the nature, amount, timing and certainty of the revenue and cash flows. The allocation has been determined based on a mix
of both observable and estimated standalone selling prices (the price at which an entity would sell a promised good or service separately to a
customer).
Revenues from franchised restaurants consisted of:
In millions 2020 2019 2018
Rents $ 6,844.7  $ 7,500.2  $ 7,082.2  
Royalties 3,831.5  4,107.1  3,886.3  
Initial fees 49.9 48.4 44.0 
Revenues from franchised restaurants $10,726.1  $11,655.7  $11,012.5  
As rent and royalties are based upon a percent of sales, government regulations as a result of COVID-19 had a negative impact on revenues
in 2020. The Company granted the deferrals of cash collection for certain rent and royalties earned from franchisees in substantially all markets
primarily in the first and second quarters of 2020. In total, the Company deferred collection of approximately $ 1 billion, and has collected over
80% of these total deferrals as of December 31, 2020.
Future gross minimum rent payments due to the Company under existing conventional franchise arrangements are:
In millions Owned sites Leased sites Total
2021 $1,586.8  $ 1,486.0  $3,072.8  
2022 1,526.5  1,428.1  2,954.6  
2023 1,472.8  1,362.0  2,834.8  
2024 1,433.0  1,310.2  2,743.2  
2025 1,394.1  1,247.7  2,641.8  
Thereafter 10,908.6  9,266.4  20,175.0  
Total minimum payments $18,321.8  $16,100.4  $34,422.2  
At December 31, 2020, net property and equipment under franchise arrangements totaled $ 20.0 billion (including land of $ 5.7 billion) after
deducting accumulated depreciation and amortization of $ 12.1 billion.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 51
Leasing Arrangements
The Company is the lessee in a significant real estate portfolio, primarily through ground leases (the Company leases the land and generally
owns the building) and through improved leases (the Company leases the land and buildings). The Company determines whether an
arrangement is a lease at inception. Lease terms for most restaurants, where market conditions allow , are generally for 20 years and, in many
cases, provide for rent escalations and renewal options. Renewal options are typically solely at the Company’ s discretion. Escalation terms vary
by market with examples including fixed-rent escalations, escalations based on an inflation index and fair-value market adjustments. The timing
of these escalations generally range from annually to every five years.
The following table provides detail of rent expense:
In millions 2020 2019 2018
Restaurants $1,399.5  $1,530.4  $1,433.9  
Other 79.8 76.4 87.9 
Total rent expense $1,479.3  $1,606.8  $1,521.8  
Rent expense included percent rents in excess of minimum rents (in millions) as follows–Company-operated restaurants: 2020–$ 53.7; 2019–
$74.4; 2018–$ 82.1. Franchised restaurants: 2020–$ 136.5 ; 2019–$ 200.7 ; 2018–$ 200.8 . These variable rent payments are based on a percent of
sales and as sales have decreased in 2020 as a result of COVID-19, the related rent expense has also decreased as compared to the prior year .
The Lease right-of-use asset and Lease liability reflect the present value of the Company's estimated future minimum lease payments over
the lease term, which includes options that are reasonably assured of being exercised, discounted using a collateralized incremental borrowing
rate. T ypically , renewal options are considered reasonably assured of being exercised if the associated asset lives of the building or leasehold
improvements exceed that of the initial lease term, and the sales performance of the restaurant remains strong. Therefore, the Lease right-of-use
asset and Lease liability include an assumption on renewal options that have not yet been exercised by the Company , and are not currently a
future obligation.
The Company's lease portfolio includes both operating and finance leases, however as of December 31, 2020, the vast majority of the
portfolio was classified as operating leases.
As the rate implicit in each lease is not readily determinable, the Company uses an incremental borrowing rate to calculate the lease liability
that represents an estimate of the interest rate the Company would incur to borrow on a collateralized basis over the term of a lease within a
particular currency environment. The weighted average discount rate used for leases was  3.8% as of December 31, 2020 and 4.0% as of
December 31, 2019.
As of December 31, 2020, maturities of lease liabilities for our lease portfolio were as follows:
In millions Total *
2021 $ 1,230.7  
2022 1,197.7  
2023 1,159.8  
2024 1,124.0  
2025 1,082.1  
Thereafter 14,295.7  
Total lease payments 20,090.0  
Less: imputed interest (6,067.2 )
Present value of lease liability $ 14,022.8  
*    Total lease payments include option periods that are reasonably assured of being exercised. See contractual cash outflows for leases within
the Contractual Obligations and Commitments section on page 24.
The increase in the present value of the lease liability since December 31, 2019 is approximately $ 0.6 billion. The lease liability will continue
to be impacted by new leases, lease modifications, lease terminations, reevaluation of lease terms, and foreign currency .
As of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, the W eighted A verage Lease T erm remaining that is included in the maturities of lease
liabilities was 20 years.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 52
Contingencies
In the ordinary course of business, the Company is subject to proceedings, lawsuits and other claims primarily related to competitors, customers,
employees, franchisees, government agencies, intellectual property , shareholders and suppliers. The Company is required to assess the
likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters as well as potential ranges of probable losses. A determination of the amount
of accrual required, if any , for these contingencies is made after careful analysis of each matter . The required accrual may change in the future
due to new developments in a particular matter or changes in approach such as a change in settlement strategy in dealing with these matters.
The Company does not believe that any such matter currently being reviewed will have a material adverse ef fect on its financial condition or
results of operations.
Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net
In millions 2020 2019 2018
Gains on sales of restaurant businesses $ (23.3)$ (127.5 )$ (304.1 )
Equity in earnings of unconsolidated af filiates (117.4 ) (153.8 ) (151.5 )
Asset dispositions and other (income) expense, net 290.7  87.2 33.7 
Impairment and other charges (gains), net (267.5 ) 74.3 231.7  
Total $ (117.5 )$ (119.8 )$ (190.2 )
▪Gains on sales of restaurant businesses
The Company’ s purchases and sales of businesses with its franchisees are aimed at maintaining an optimal ownership mix in each market.
Resulting gains or losses on sales of restaurant businesses are recorded in operating income because these transactions are a recurring part of
our business.
▪Equity in earnings of unconsolidated af filiates
Unconsolidated af filiates and partnerships are businesses in which the Company actively participates but does not control. The Company records
equity in (earnings) losses from these entities representing McDonald’ s share of results for markets in both the International Operated Markets
and International Developmental Licensed Markets segments. For foreign af filiated markets—primarily China and Japan—results are reported
after interest expense and income taxes.
▪Asset dispositions and other (income) expense, net
Asset dispositions and other (income) expense, net consists of gains or losses on excess property and other asset dispositions, provisions for
restaurant closings, reserves for bad debts, asset write-of fs due to restaurant reinvestment (including investment in Experience of the Future),
strategic sale of properties, and other miscellaneous income and expenses.
▪Impairment and other charges (gains), net
Impairment and other charges (gains), net includes losses that result from the write down of goodwill and long-lived assets from their carrying
value to their fair value, as well as charges associated with strategic initiatives, such as refranchising and restructuring activities. The realized
gains/losses from the divestiture of ownership percentages of subsidiaries are reflected in this category , including the 2020 gain on the sale of
McDonald's Japan stock as the Company divested about 6% of its ownership in McDonald's Japan.
Income T axes
Income before provision for income taxes, classified by source of income, was as follows:
In millions 2020 2019 2018
U.S. $1,390.4  $2,159.1  $2,218.0  
Outside the U.S. 4,750.3  5,859.0  5,598.1  
Income before provision for income taxes * $6,140.7  $8,018.1  $7,816.1  
* The decrease in Income before provision for income taxes from 2019 to 2020 was primarily due to COVID-19.
In October 2016, the F ASB issued ASU 2016-16, “Income T axes (T opic 740): Intra-Entity T ransfers of Assets Other Than Inventory .” The goal of
this update was to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory . The Company
adopted this standard on January 1, 2018 using a modified retrospective method, resulting in a cumulative catch up adjustment of $57 million, the
majority of which was recorded within Miscellaneous other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The adoption of this standard did not have
a material impact on the Consolidated Statements of Income and Cash Flows.
The T ax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 ("T ax Act") was enacted in the U.S. in December 2017. The T ax Act reduced the U.S. federal corporate
income tax rate to 21% from 35% and required companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were
previously tax deferred. In 2017, the Company recorded provisional amounts for certain enactment-date ef fects of the T ax Act by applying the
guidance in Staf f Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") 118. In 2018, the Company recorded adjustments to the provisional amounts and completed its
accounting for all of the enactment-date income tax ef fects of the T ax Act.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 53
SAB 118 measurement period
At December 31, 2017, the Company had not completed its accounting for all of the enactment-date income tax ef fects of the T ax Act under
ASC 740, Income T axes , primarily for the one-time transition tax.
The one-time transition tax is based on the Company's total post-1986 earnings and profits ("E&P"), the tax on which it previously deferred
from U.S. income taxes under U.S. law . The Company recorded a provisional amount for its one-time transition tax liability of approximately $ 1.2
billion at December 31, 2017. Upon further analysis of the T ax Act and notices and regulations issued and proposed by the U.S. Department of
the T reasury and the IRS, the Company increased its December 31, 2017 provisional amount by approximately $ 75 million during 2018. The
Company has elected to pay its transition tax over the eight-year period provided in the T ax Act.
The provision for income taxes, classified by the timing and location of payment, was as follows:
In millions 2020 2019 2018
U.S. federal $ 554.1  $ 521.8  $ 292.9  
U.S. state 119.1  194.7  183.9  
Outside the U.S. 730.6  1,126.5  1,312.4  
Current tax provision 1,403.8  1,843.0  1,789.2  
U.S. federal 870.3  38.5 145.7  
U.S. state 73.3 20.0 18.7 
Outside the U.S. (937.2 ) 91.2 (61.8)
Deferred tax provision 6.4 149.7  102.6  
Provision for income taxes $1,410.2  $1,992.7  $1,891.8  
Net deferred tax (assets) liabilities consisted of:
In millions December 31, 2020 2019
Lease right-of-use asset $3,427.3  $3,296.8  
Property and equipment 1,600.4  1,316.4  
Intangible assets 1,046.2  334.8  
Other 322.4  511.1  
Total deferred tax liabilities 6,396.3  5,459.1  
Lease liability (3,462.0 )(3,331.1 )
Intangible assets (2,095.9 )(1,051.0 )
Property and equipment (593.8 ) (585.6 )
Deferred foreign tax credits (289.3 ) (311.2 )
Employee benefit plans (190.8 ) (192.3 )
Deferred revenue (154.8 ) (145.5 )
Operating loss carryforwards (86.8) (81.5)
Other (449.0 ) (323.6 )
Total deferred tax assets before valuation allowance (7,322.4 )(6,021.8 )
Valuation allowance 816.0  741.9  
Net deferred tax (assets) liabilities $(110.1 )$179.2  
Balance sheet presentation:
Deferred income taxes $2,025.6  $1,318.1  
Other assets-miscellaneous (2,135.7 )(1,138.9 )
Net deferred tax (assets) liabilities $(110.1 )$179.2  
At December 31, 2020, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards of $ 392.5  million, of which $ 228.2  million has an indefinite
carryforward. The remainder will expire at various dates from 2021 to 2039.
The Company’ s effective income tax rates are higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 21% primarily due to the impact of state income taxes
and foreign income that is subject to local statutory country tax rates that are above the 21% U.S. statutory tax rate.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 54
The statutory U.S. federal income tax rate reconciles to the ef fective income tax rates as follows:
2020 2019 2018
Statutory U.S. federal income tax rate 21.0 % 21.0 % 21.0 %
State income taxes, net of related federal income tax benefit 1.8 1.8 1.8 
Foreign income taxed at dif ferent rates 0.4 1.6 1.5 
Tax impact of intercompany transactions 2.1 — — 
Global intangible low-tax income ("GIL TI") 1.2 1.3 0.4 
Foreign-derived intangible income ("FDII") (3.4) (1.3) (1.4)
Transition tax — — 1.0 
U.S./Foreign tax law changes (1.8) — — 
Foreign tax credit redetermination regulations — (1.0) — 
Other , net 1.7 1.5 (0.1)
Effective income tax rates 23.0 % 24.9 % 24.2 %
The T ax Act enacted the GIL TI provision, which taxes U.S. allocated expenses and certain income from foreign operations. Also, the T ax Act
enacted the FDII provision, which allows deductions against certain types of U.S. taxable income resulting in a lower ef fective U.S. tax rate on
such income.
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company’ s gross unrecognized tax benefits totaled $ 1,479.2  million and $ 1,439.1  million,
respectively . After considering the deferred tax accounting impact, it is expected that about $ 940 million of the total as of December 31, 2020
would favorably af fect the ef fective tax rate if resolved in the Company’ s favor .
The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of unrecognized tax benefits:
In millions 2020 2019
Balance at January 1 $ 1,439.1  $ 1,342.8  
Decreases for positions taken in prior years (71.4) (18.3)
Increases for positions taken in prior years 38.5 107.1  
Increases for positions related to the current year 89.6 88.3 
Settlements with taxing authorities (3.9) (68.6)
Lapsing of statutes of limitations (12.7) (12.2)
Balance at December 31 $ 1,479.2  $ 1,439.1  
(1) Of this amount, $ 1,137.8  million and $ 1,285.3  million are included in Long-term income taxes for 2020 and 2019, respectively , and $ 325.0  million and $ 138.8  million are
included in Prepaid expenses and other current assets for 2020 and 2019, respectively , on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The remainder is included in Deferred
income taxes on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
In 2015, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) issued a Revenue Agent Report (“RAR”) that included certain disagreed transfer pricing
adjustments related to the Company’ s U.S. Federal income tax returns for 2009 and 2010. Also in 2015, the Company filed a protest with the IRS
related to these disagreed transfer pricing matters. During 2017, the Company received a response to its protest. In December 2018, the
Company met with the IRS Appeals team and, during 2019 and 2020, the Company and the IRS Appeals team continued to have a dialogue
regarding these disagreed transfer pricing matters. As of December 31, 2020, the Company does not yet have a signed agreement with the IRS
related to the settlement of these issues.
In 2017, the IRS completed its examination of the Company’ s U.S. Federal income tax returns for 2011 and 2012. In 2018, the IRS issued a
RAR for these years. As expected, the RAR included the same disagreed transfer pricing matters as the 2009 and 2010 RAR. Also in 2018, the
Company filed a protest with the IRS related to these disagreed transfer pricing matters. The transfer pricing matters for 2011 and 2012 are being
addressed along with the 2009 and 2010 transfer pricing matters as part of the 2009-2010 appeals process. The Company is also under audit in
multiple foreign tax jurisdictions for matters primarily related to transfer pricing, and the Company is under audit in multiple state tax jurisdictions.
While the Company cannot estimate the impact to the ef fective tax rate, it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax
benefits could decrease up to $ 1,040  million within the next 12 months. This would be due to the possible settlement of the IRS transfer pricing
matters, completion of the aforementioned foreign and state tax audits and the expiration of the statute of limitations in multiple tax jurisdictions.
In addition, it is reasonably possible that, as a result of audit progression in both the U.S. and foreign tax audits within the next 12 months,
there may be new information that causes the Company to reassess the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits recorded. While the Company
cannot estimate the impact that new information may have on our unrecognized tax benefit balance, it believes that the liabilities recorded are
appropriate and adequate.
The Company operates within multiple tax jurisdictions and is subject to audit in these jurisdictions. With few exceptions, the Company is no
longer subject to U.S. federal, state and local, or non-U.S. income tax examinations for years before 2009.
The Company had $ 177.4  million and $ 174.4  million accrued for interest and penalties related to tax matters at December 31, 2020 and
2019, respectively . The Company recognized interest and penalties related to tax matters of $ 32.4 million in 2020, $ 39.9 million in 2019, and
$13.9 million in 2018, which are included in the provision for income taxes.
As of December 31, 2020, the Company has accumulated undistributed earnings generated by our foreign subsidiaries, which were
predominantly taxed in the U.S. as a result of the transition tax provisions enacted under the T ax Act. Management does not assert that these
previously-taxed unremitted earnings are indefinitely reinvested in operations outside the U.S. Accordingly , the Company has provided deferred
taxes for the tax ef fects incremental to the transition tax. W e have not provided for deferred taxes on outside basis dif ferences in our investments
in our foreign subsidiaries that are unrelated to these accumulated undistributed earnings, as these outside basis dif ferences are indefinitely
reinvested.  A determination of the unrecognized deferred taxes related to these other components of our outside basis dif ferences is not
practicable.(1)
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 55
Employee Benefit Plans
The Company's 401(k) Plan is maintained for U.S.-based employees and includes a 401(k) feature, as well as an employer match. The 401(k)
feature allows eligible participants to make pre-tax contributions that are matched each pay period (with an annual true-up) through cash
contributions and, prior to July 31, 2018, from shares released under the Employee Stock Ownership Plan. Ef fective August 1, 2018, the
contributions are matched only through cash contributions.
All current account balances, future contributions and related earnings can be invested in nine investment alternatives (including a target
date fund series), as well as McDonald’ s stock in accordance with each participant’ s investment elections. Future participant contributions are
limited to 20% investment in McDonald’ s stock. Participants may choose to make separate investment choices for current account balances and
future contributions.
The Company also maintains certain unfunded nonqualified supplemental benefit plans that allow participants to (i) make tax-deferred
contributions and (ii) receive Company-provided matching allocations that cannot be made under the 401(k) Plan because of IRS limitations. The
investment alternatives and returns are based on certain market-rate investment alternatives under the 401(k) Plan, net of expenses.  Total
liabilities were $ 431.2  million and $ 435.0  million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively , and were primarily included in Other long-term
liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The Company has entered into derivative contracts to hedge market-driven changes in certain of the liabilities.  At December 31, 2020,
derivatives with a fair va lue of $ 185.6  million in dexed to the Company's stock and a total return swap with a notional amount of $ 180.4  million
indexed to certain market indices were included at their fair value in Prepaid expenses and other current assets on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet. Changes in liabilities for these nonqualified plans and in the fair value of the derivatives are recorded primarily in Selling, general &
administrative expenses. Changes in fair value of the derivatives indexed to the Company’ s stock are recorded in the income statement because
the contracts provide the counterparty with a choice to settle in cash or shares.
Total U.S. costs for the 401(k) Plan and nonqualified benefits and related hedging activities, were (in millions): 2020–$ 37.0; 2019–$ 30.4;
2018–$ 18.0. Certain subsidiaries outside the U.S. also of fer profit sharing, stock purchase or other similar benefit plans. T otal plan costs outside
the U.S. were (in millions): 2020–$ 36.6; 2019–$ 35.3; 2018–$ 33.7.
The total combined liabilities for international retirement plans were $ 45.5 million and $ 42.3 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019,
respectively . Other post-retirement benefits and post-employment benefits were immaterial to the Consolidated Income Statement.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 56
Debt Financing
LINE OF CREDIT AGREEMENTS
At December 31, 2020, the Company had two line of credit agreements available, with a combined commitment amount of $ 4.5 billion. Both line
of credit agreements remain unused, with the $ 1.0 billion agreement expiring in March 2021, and the $ 3.5 billion agreement expiring in December
2024. The Company intends to renew both line of credit agreements prior to their expiration. The $ 1.0 billion line of credit includes a fixed fee of
0.375 % on the total commitment, and the $ 3.5 billion line of credit incurs fees of 0.09% per annum on the total commitment. Fees and interest
rates on the $ 3.5 billion line of credit are primarily based on the Company’ s long-term credit rating assigned by Moody’ s and Standard & Poor's.
In addition, the Company's subsidiaries had unused lines of credit that were primarily uncommitted, short-term and denominated in various
currencies  at local market rates of interest .
The weighted-average interest rate of short-term borrowings was 1.9% at December 31, 2020 (based on $ 265.7  million of foreign currency
bank line borrowings) and 1.9% at December 31, 2019 (based on $ 242.4  million of foreign currency bank line borrowings and $ 899.3  million of
commercial paper outstanding).
DEBT OBLIGATIONS
The Company has incurred debt obligations principally through public and private of ferings and bank loans. There are no provisions in the
Company’ s debt obligations that would accelerate repayment of debt as a result of a change in credit ratings or a material adverse change in the
Company’ s business. Certain of the Company’ s debt obligations contain cross-acceleration provisions, and restrictions on Company and
subsidiary mortgages and the long-term debt of certain subsidiaries. Under certain agreements, the Company has the option to retire debt prior to
maturity , either at par or at a premium over par . The Company has no current plans to retire a significant amount of its debt prior to maturity , but
continues to look for ways to optimize its debt portfolio.
The following table summarizes the Company’ s debt obligations (interest rates and debt amounts reflected in the table include the ef fects of
interest rate swaps used to hedge debt).
Interest rates
December 31Amounts outstanding
 December 31
In millions of U.S. Dollars Maturity dates 2020 2019 2020 2019
Fixed 3.9 % 4.0 % $22,734.5  $19,340.2  
Floating 0.9 2.2 1,150.0  2,049.3  
Total U.S. Dollar 2021-2050 23,884.5  21,389.5  
Fixed 1.5 1.5 9,453.9  8,671.8  
Floating 2.1 2.3 366.5  337.0  
Total Euro 2021-2031 9,820.4  9,008.8  
Fixed 3.4 3.4 845.1  771.0  
Floating 1.2 2.0 230.8  210.6  
Total Australian Dollar 2024-2029 1,075.9  981.6  
Total British Pounds Sterling - Fixed 2032-2054 4.2 4.6 1,156.4  1,386.3  
Total Canadian Dollar - Fixed 2021-2025 3.1 3.1 784.9  768.6  
Total Japanese Y en - Fixed 2030 2.9 2.9 121.1  115.1  
Fixed 0.2 0.2 451.9  413.8  
Floating 1.9 2.2 265.7  241.8  
Total other currencies 2021-2024 717.6  655.6  
Debt obligations before fair value adjustments and deferred
debt costs 37,560.8  34,305.5  
Fair value adjustments 35.8 12.1 
Deferred debt costs (156.2 ) (140.4 )
Total debt obligations $37,440.4  $34,177.2  
(1) Weighted-average effective rate, computed on a semi-annual basis.
(2) Consists of Swiss Francs and Korean Won.
(3) Aggregate maturities for 2020 debt balances, before fair value adjustments and deferred debt costs, are as follows (in millions): 2021–$ 2,243.6 ; 2022–$ 2,332.2 ; 2023–
$2,643.9 ; 2024–$ 3,300.7 ; 2025–$ 3,159.6 ; Thereafter–$ 23,880.8 . These amounts include a reclassification of short-term obligations totaling $ 268.9  million to long-term
obligations as they are supported by a long-term line of credit agreement expiring in December 2024 .
(4) The carrying value of underlying items in fair value hedges, in this case debt obligations, are adjusted for fair value changes to the extent they are attributable to the risk
designated as being hedged. The related hedging instruments are also recorded at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 57
Share-based Compensation
The Company maintains a share-based compensation plan, which authorizes the granting of various equity-based incentives including stock
options and RSUs to employees and nonemployee directors.  The number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance under the plan was
39.3 million at December 31, 2020, including 24.6 million available for future grants.
Share-based compensation expense and the ef fect on diluted earnings per common share were as follows:
In millions, except per share data 2020 2019 2018
Share-based compensation expense $ 92.4 $ 109.6  $ 125.1  
After tax $ 78.3 $ 94.2 $ 108.1  
Earnings per common share-diluted $ 0.10 $ 0.12 $ 0.14 
As of December 31, 2020, there was $ 121.5  million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested share-based
compensation that is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.0 years.
STOCK OPTIONS
Stock options to purchase common stock are granted with an exercise price equal to the closing market price of the Company’ s stock on the date
of grant. Substantially all of the options become exercisable in four equal installments, beginning a year from the date of the grant, and generally
expire 10 years from the grant date.
The following table presents the weighted-average assumptions used in the option pricing model for the 2020, 2019 and 2018 stock option
grants. The expected life of the options represents the period of time the options are expected to be outstanding and is based on historical trends.
Expected stock price volatility is generally based on the historical volatility of the Company’ s stock for a period approximating the expected life.
The expected dividend yield is based on the Company’ s most recent annual dividend rate. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S.
Treasury yield curve in ef fect at the time of grant with a term equal to the expected life.
Weighted-average assumptions
2020 2019 2018
Expected dividend yield 2.3 % 2.7 % 2.6 %
Expected stock price volatility 19.1 % 18.9 % 18.7 %
Risk-free interest rate 1.4 % 2.5 % 2.7 %
Expected life of options (in years) 5.7 5.8 5.8
Fair value per option granted $ 29.40  $ 25.60  $ 23.80  
Intrinsic value for stock options is defined as the dif ference between the current market value of the Company’ s stock and the exercise price.
During 2020, 2019 and 2018, the total intrinsic value of stock options exercised was $ 290.4  million, $ 356.1  million and $ 364.4  million,
respectively . Cash received from stock options exercised during 2020 was $ 295.5  million and the tax benefit realized from stock options
exercised totaled $ 59.3 million. The Company uses treasury shares purchased under the Company’ s share repurchase program to satisfy share-
based exercises.
A summary of the status of the Company’ s stock option grants as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, and changes during the years then
ended, is presented in the following table:
2020 2019 2018
OptionsShares in
 millionsWeighted-
 average
 exercise
 priceWeighted-
 average
 remaining
 contractual
 life in yearsAggregate
 intrinsic
 value in
 millionsShares in
 millionsWeighted-
 average
 exercise
 priceShares in
 millionsWeighted-
 average
 exercise
 price
Outstanding at beginning of year 14.6 $124.21  16.6 $113.06  18.9 $101.55  
Granted 1.8 214.18  2.0 175.17  2.7 157.95  
Exercised (2.8) 104.58  (3.6) 97.70  (4.5) 89.31  
Forfeited/expired (0.2) 184.69    (0.4) 154.65  (0.5) 137.08  
Outstanding at end of year 13.4 $139.44  5.8 $1,005.5  14.6 $124.21  16.6 $113.06  
Exercisable at end of year 8.8 $118.46  4.6 $843.1  9.2 10.0  
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 58
RSUs
RSUs generally vest 100% on the third anniversary of the grant and are payable in either shares of McDonald’ s common stock or cash, at the
Company’ s discretion. The fair value of each RSU granted is equal to the market price of the Company’ s stock at date of grant. Separately ,
Company executives have been awarded RSUs that vest based on Company performance. For performance-based RSUs, the Company
includes a relative TSR modifier to determine the number of shares earned at the end of the performance period. The fair value of performance-
based RSUs that include the TSR modifier is determined using a Monte Carlo valuation model.
A summary of the Company’ s RSU activity during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 is presented in the following table:
 2020 2019 2018
RSUsShares in
 millionsWeighted-
 average
 grant date
 fair valueShares in
 millionsWeighted-
 average
 grant date
 fair valueShares in
 millionsWeighted-
 average
 grant date
 fair value
Nonvested at beginning of year 1.4 $150.95  1.5 $132.56  1.6 $107.34  
Granted 0.6 201.92  0.6 171.48  0.6 158.28  
Vested (0.6) 127.99  (0.6) 116.42  (0.6) 91.20  
Forfeited (0.1) 172.45  (0.1) 153.58  (0.1) 132.14  
Nonvested at end of year 1.3 $176.81  1.4 $150.95  1.5 $132.56  
The total fair value of RSUs vested during 2020, 2019 and 2018 was $ 119.4  million, $ 111.0  million and $ 117.9  million, respectively . The tax
benefit realized from RSUs vested during 2020 was $ 23.6 million.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
The Company evaluated subsequent events through the date the financial statements were issued and filed with the SEC. There were no
subsequent events that required recognition or disclosure .
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 59
Management’ s Assessment of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
 
The financial statements were prepared by management, which is responsible for their integrity and objectivity and for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting.
The Company’ s internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Company’ s
internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:
I.pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the Company;
II.provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance
with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and
III.provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company’ s
assets that could have a material ef fect on the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the ef fectiveness of any internal control, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or
overriding of controls. Accordingly , even ef fective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurances with respect to financial statement
preparation. Further , because of changes in conditions, the ef fectiveness of internal controls may vary over time.
Management assessed the design and ef fectiveness of the Company’ s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020. In
making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the T readway Commission
(“COSO”) in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013 Framework).
Based on management’ s assessment using those criteria, as of December 31, 2020, management believes that the Company’ s internal control
over financial reporting is ef fective.
Ernst & Y oung, LLP , independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the financial statements of the Company for the fiscal years
ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 and the Company’ s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020. Their reports
are presented on the following pages. The independent registered public accountants and internal auditors advise management of the results of
their audits, and make recommendations to improve the system of internal controls. Management evaluates the audit recommendations and
takes appropriate action.
McDONALD’S CORPORA TION
February 23, 2021
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 60
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of McDonald’ s Corporation
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of McDonald’ s Corporation (the Company) as of December 31, 2020 and 2019,
and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2020, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the
consolidated financial statements present fairly , in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2020 and 2019,
and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the
Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the T readway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February
23, 2021 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’ s
financial statements based on our audits. W e are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with
respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and
Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits
included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and
performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. W e believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for
our opinion.
Critical Audit Matter
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that was communicated
or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial
statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of the critical audit matter does not
alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit
matter below , providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the account or disclosure to which it relates.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 61
Unrecognized T ax Benefits
Description of the
MatterAs described in the income taxes footnote to the consolidated financial statements, the Company’ s unrecognized tax
benefits, which includes transfer pricing matters, totaled $1,479.2 million at December 31, 2020. The Company , like other
multi-national companies, is regularly audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, and tax assessments may arise
several years after tax returns have been filed. Accordingly , tax liabilities are recorded when, in management’ s judgment, a
tax position does not meet the more likely than not threshold for recognition. For tax positions that meet the more likely than
not threshold, a tax liability may still be recorded depending on management’ s assessment of how the tax position will
ultimately be settled.
 
Auditing the measurement of unrecognized tax benefits related to transfer pricing used in intercompany transactions was
challenging because the measurement is based on judgmental interpretations of complex tax laws and legal rulings and
because the pricing of the intercompany transactions is based on studies that may produce a range of outcomes (e.g., the
price that would be charged in an arm’ s-length transaction).
 
How W e
Addressed the
Matter in Our AuditWe obtained an understanding, evaluated the design, and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the Company’ s
process to assess the technical merits and measure unrecognized tax benefits related to transfer pricing used in
intercompany transaction s. For example, we tested management’ s review of the unrecognized tax benefit calculations, which
included evaluation of the comparable transactions used to determine the ranges of outcomes, pricing conclusions reached
in management’ s transfer pricing studies, and the assessment of other third-party information.
 
With the assistance of our income tax professionals, we performed audit procedures that included, among others, evaluating
the technical merits of the Company’ s position and testing the measurement of unrecognized tax benefits related to transfer
pricing. For example, we assessed the inputs utilized and the pricing conclusions reached in the transfer pricing studies
executed by manageme nt, and compared the methods used to alternative methods and industry benchmarks. We also
reviewed the Company’ s communications with the relevant tax authorities and any advice obtained by the Company from
third-party advisors. In addition, we used our knowledge of historical settlement activity , income tax laws, and other market
information to evaluate the technical merits of the positions and the measurement of unrecognized tax benefits related to
transfer pricing.
/s/ Ernst & Y oung LLP
We have served as the Company’ s auditor since 1964.
Chicago, Illinois
February 23, 2021
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 62
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of McDonald’ s Corporation
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited McDonald’ s Corporation’ s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in
Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the T readway Commission (2013 framework)
(the COSO criteria). In our opinion, McDonald’ s Corporation (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, ef fective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on  the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the
consolidated balance sheets of McDonald’ s Corporation as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the related consolidated statements of income,
comprehensive income, shareholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, and the related
notes and our report dated February 23, 2021 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’ s management is responsible for maintaining ef fective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’ s Assessment of Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’ s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. W e
are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the
U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether ef fective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists,
testing and evaluating the design and operating ef fectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. W e believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
A company’ s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’ s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company’ s assets that could have a material ef fect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of ef fectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or
that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ Ernst & Y oung LLP
Chicago, Illinois
February 23, 2021
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 63
Controls and Procedures
DISCLOSURE CONTROLS
An evaluation was conducted under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’ s management, including the Chief Executive
Officer ("CEO") and Chief Financial Of ficer ("CFO"), of the ef fectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’ s disclosure controls and
procedures (as that term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”)) as of
December 31, 2020. Based on that evaluation, the CEO and CFO concluded that the Company’ s disclosure controls and procedures were
effective as of such date to provide reasonable assurances that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports filed or
submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms,
and is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosure.
INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
The Company's management, including the CEO and CFO, confirm that there was no change in the Company's internal control over financial
reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2020 that has materially af fected, or is reasonably likely to materially af fect, the Company's
internal control over financial reporting.
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT
Management’ s Report and the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting are set
forth in the consolidated financial statements.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters
The following table summarizes information about the Company’ s equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2020. All outstanding awards
relate to the Company’ s common stock. Shares issued under all of the following plans may be from the Company’ s treasury , newly issued or
both.
Equity compensation plan information
Number of securities
 to be issued upon
 exercise of
 outstanding options,
 warrants and rightsWeighted-average
 exercise price of
 outstanding options,
 warrants and rightsNumber of securities
 remaining available for
 future issuance under
 equity compensation plans
 (excluding securities
 reflected in column (a))
Plan category (a) (b) (c)
Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 14,672,813 (1) $142.81 24,630,227 
Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders — — — 
Total 14,672,813   $142.81 24,630,227 
(1) Includes 802,380 stock options granted under the McDonald’ s Corporation 2001 Omnibus Stock Ownership Plan and 12,545,811 stock options and 1,324,622 restricted
stock units granted under the McDonald's Corporation Amended and Restated 2012 Omnibus Stock Ownership Plan.
Additional matters are incorporated herein by reference from the Company’ s definitive proxy statement, which will be filed no later than
120 days after December 31, 2020.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 64
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
a.(1)All financial statements
Consolidated financial statements filed as part of this report and are included on pages 38 through 59 of this Form 10-K.
(2)Financial statement schedules
No schedules are required because either the required information is not present or is not present in amounts suf ficient to require
submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the consolidated financial statements or the notes
thereto.
b. Exhibits
The exhibits listed in the accompanying index are filed as part of this report.
McDonald’ s Corporation Exhibit Index
Exhibit Number Description
(3) (a) Restated Certificate of Incorporation, ef fective as of May 23, 2019, incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 3(a) of
Form 10-Q (File No. 001-05231), filed August 6, 2019.
(b) By-Laws, as amended and restated with ef fect as of December 6, 2019, incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 3 of
Form 8-K (File No. 001-05231), filed December 10, 2019.
(4) Instruments defining the rights of security holders, including Indentures:*
(a) Senior Debt Securities Indenture, dated as of October 19, 1996, incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit (4)(a) of
Form S-3 Registration Statement (File No. 333-14141), filed October 15, 1996.
(b) Subordinated Debt Securities Indenture, dated as of October 18, 1996, incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit (4)
(b) of Form S-3 Registration Statement (File No. 333-14141), filed October 15, 1996.
(c)Description of Securities, incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 4(c) of Form 10-K (File No. 001-05231), filed
February 26, 2020.
(10) Material Contracts
(a) Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan, amended and restated ef fective as of May 26, 2016, incorporated herein by
reference from Exhibit 10(a)(i) of Form 10-Q (File No. 001-05231), for the quarter ended June 30, 2016.**
(b) McDonald’ s Deferred Compensation Plan, ef fective January 1, 2017, incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(b) of
Form 10-K (File No. 001-05231), for the year ended December 31, 2016.**
(i) First Amendment to the McDonald's Deferred Compensation Plan, ef fective as of May 1, 2018, incorporated herein
by reference from Exhibit 10(b)(i) of Form 10-Q (File No. 001-05231), for the quarter ended September 30, 2018.**
(c) McDonald's Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan, ef fective as of May 26, 2020, incorporated herein by
reference from Exhibit 10 (c) of Form 10-Q (File No. 001-05231), for the quarter ended June 30, 20 20.**
(d) McDonald’ s Corporation Supplemental Profit Sharing and Savings Plan, ef fective as of September 1, 2001, incorporated
herein by reference from Exhibit 10(c) of Form 10-K (File No. 001-05231), for the year ended December 31, 2001.**
(i) First Amendment to the McDonald’ s Corporation Supplemental Profit Sharing and Savings Plan, ef fective as of
January 1, 2002, incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(c)(i) of Form 10-K (File No. 001-05231), for the
year ended December 31, 2002.**
(ii) Second Amendment to the McDonald’ s Corporation Supplemental Profit Sharing and Savings Plan, ef fective
January 1, 2005, incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(c)(ii) of Form 10-K (File No. 001-05231), for the
year ended December 31, 2004.**
(e) McDonald’ s Corporation Amended and Restated 2001 Omnibus Stock Ownership Plan, ef fective July 1, 2008, incorporated
herein by reference from Exhibit 10(h) of Form 10-Q (File No. 001-05231), for the quarter ended June 30, 2009.**
(i) First Amendment to the McDonald’ s Corporation Amended and Restated 2001 Omnibus Stock Ownership Plan,
incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(h)(i) of Form 10-K (File No. 001-05231), for the year ended
December 31, 2008.**
(ii) Second Amendment to the McDonald’ s Corporation Amended and Restated 2001 Omnibus Stock Ownership Plan
as amended, ef fective February 9, 2011, incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(h)(ii) of Form 10-K (File
No. 001-05231), for the year ended December 31, 2010.**
(f) McDonald's Corporation 2012 Omnibus Stock Ownership Plan, ef fective June 1, 2012, incorporated herein by reference
from Exhibit 10(h) of Form 10-Q (File No. 001-05231), for the quarter ended September 30, 2012.**
(g) McDonald's Corporation Amended and Restated 2012 Omnibus Stock Ownership Plan, ef fective May 21, 2020,
incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(g) of Form 10-Q (File No. 001-05231), for the quarter ended June 30,
2020.**
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 65
(h) Form of Executive Stock Option Grant Agreement in connection with the Amended and Restated 2001 Omnibus Stock
Ownership Plan, as amended, incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(j) of Form 10-K (File No. 001-05231), for
the year ended December 31, 2011.**
(i) Form of 2013 Executive Stock Option A ward Agreement in connection with the 2012 Omnibus Stock Ownership Plan,
incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(n) of Form 10-Q (File No. 001-05231), for the quarter ended March 31,
2013.**
(j) Form of 2014 Executive Stock Option A ward Agreement in connection with the 2012 Omnibus Stock Ownership Plan,
incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(z) of Form 10-Q (File No. 001-05231), for the quarter ended March 31,
2014.**
(k) Form of Executive Confidentiality , Intellectual Property and Restrictive Covenant Agreement, incorporated herein by
reference from Exhibit 10(o) of Form 10-Q (File No. 001-05231), for the quarter ended March 31, 2017.**
(l) Form of 2018 Executive Stock Option A ward Agreement in connection with the 2012 Omnibus Stock Ownership Plan,
incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(q) of Form 10-Q (File No. 001-05231), for the quarter ended March 31,
2018. **
(m) Form of 2018 Executive Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit A ward Agreement in connection with the 2012 Omnibus
Stock Ownership Plan, incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(r) of Form 10-Q (File No. 001-05231), for the
quarter ended March 31, 2018. **
(n) Separation Agreement and General Release between Douglas Goare and the Company , dated January 7, 2019,
incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(r) of Form 10-K (File No. 001-05231), for the year ended December 31,
2018.**
(o) McDonald's Corporation T arget Incentive Plan, ef fective as of January 1, 2013, as Amended and Restated February 13,
2019, incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(p) of Form 10-Q (File No. 001-05231), for the quarter ended March
31, 2019.**
(p) McDonald's Corporation Of ficer Severance Plan, as Amended and Restated, ef fective January 1, 2019, incorporated
herein by reference from Exhibit 10(q) of Form 10-Q (File No. 001-05231), for the quarter ended March 31, 2019.**
(q) Form of 2019 Executive Stock Option A ward Agreement in connection with the 2012 Omnibus Stock Ownership Plan,
incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(r) of Form 10-Q (File No. 001-05231), for the quarter ended March 31,
2019.**
(r) Form of 2019 Executive Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit A ward Agreement in connection with the 2012 Omnibus
Stock Ownership Plan, incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(s) of Form 10-Q (File No. 001-05231), for the
quarter ended March 31, 2019.**
(s) Separation Agreement and General Release between Stephen Easterbrook and the Company , dated October 31, 2019,
incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K (File No. 001-05231), filed November 4, 2019.
(t) Separation Agreement and General Release between Silvia Lagnado and the Company , dated August 14, 2019,
incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(t) of Form 10-Q (File No. 001-05231), for the quarter ended June 30,
2020.**
(u) Separation Agreement and General Release between Silvia Lagnado and the Company , dated October 31, 2019,
incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(u) of Form 10-Q (File No. 001-05231), for the quarter ended June 30,
2020.**
(v) Separation Agreement and General Release between Jerome N. Krulewitch and the Company , dated October 13, 2020,
filed herewith.**
(12) Computation of Ratios.
(21) Subsidiaries of the Registrant.
(23) Consent of Independ ent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
(24) Power of Attorney .
(31.1) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Of ficer.
(31.2) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Of ficer.
(32.1) Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by the Chief Executive Of ficer, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
(32.2) Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by the Chief Financial Of ficer, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
(101.INS) XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are
embedded within the Inline XBRL document.
 (101.SCH) Inline XBRL T axonomy Extension Schema Document.
(101.CAL) Inline XBRL T axonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.
(101.DEF) Inline XBRL T axonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.
(101.LAB) Inline XBRL T axonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.
(101.PRE) Inline XBRL T axonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 66
(104) Cover Page Interactive Data File - the cover page XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document.
*Other instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the registrant, and all of its subsidiaries for which consolidated financial
statements are required to be filed and which are not required to be registered with the Commission, are not included herein as the securities
authorized under these instruments, individually , do not exceed 10% of the total assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a
consolidated basis. An agreement to furnish a copy of any such instruments to the Commission upon request has been filed with the
Commission.
**Denotes compensatory plan.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 67
Form 10-K Cross-Reference Index
Page reference
Part I
Item 1 Business Pages 3-7, 9
Item 1A Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Pages 3, 29-35
Item 1B Unresolved Staf f Comments Not applicable
Item 2 Properties Page 36
Item 3 Legal Proceedings Page 35
Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable
Additional Item Information About our Executive Of ficers Page 36
Part II
Item 5 Market for Registrant’ s Common Equity , Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity SecuritiesPage 28
Item 6 Selected Financial Data Page 26
Item 7 Management’ s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Pages 3-37
Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Pages 22-24
Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Pages 38-59
Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
DisclosureNot applicable
Item 9A Controls and Procedures Page 64
Item 9B Other Information Not applicable
Part III
Item 10 Directors, Executive Of ficers and Corporate Governance Page 36, (a)
Item 11 Executive Compensation (a)
Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Shareholder MattersPage 64
Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related T ransactions, and Director Independence (a)
Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services (a)
Part IV
Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Pages 65-67
Item 16 Form 10-K Summary Not applicable
Signatures Page 69
(a) - Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement, which will be filed no later than 120 days after December
31, 2020.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 68
Signatures
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
McDonald’ s Corporation
(Registrant)
By /s/ Kevin M. Ozan
Kevin M. Ozan
Corporate Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
February 23, 2021
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on
behalf of the registrant and in their capacities indicated below on the 23rd day of February , 2021:
By /s/ Lloyd H. Dean By /s/ Richard H. Lenny
Lloyd H. Dean Richard H. Lenny
Director Director
By /s/ Robert A. Eckert By /s/ John J. Mulligan
Robert A. Eckert John J. Mulligan
Director Director
By /s/ Catherine M. Engelbert By /s/ Kevin M. Ozan
Catherine M. Engelbert Kevin M. Ozan
Director Corporate Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer)
By /s/ Margaret H. Georgiadis By /s/ Sheila A. Penrose
Margaret H. Georgiadis Sheila A. Penrose
Director Director
By /s/ Enrique Hernandez, Jr. By /s/ John W. Rogers, Jr.
Enrique Hernandez, Jr. John W. Rogers, Jr.
Chairman of the Board and Director Director
By /s/ Catherine Hoovel By /s/ Paul S. Walsh
Catherine Hoovel Paul S. Walsh
Corporate Vice President – Chief Accounting Officer Director
(Principal Accounting Officer)
By /s/ Christopher J. Kempczinski By /s/ Miles D. White
Christopher J. Kempczinski Miles D. White
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Director
(Principal Executive Officer)
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 69
