10-K 1 antm-2018123110kq42018.htm FORM 10-K
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
x ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018
OR
o TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from                     to                     
Commission file number: 001-16751
ANTHEM, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
INDIANA  35-2145715
(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)
220 VIRGINIA AVENUE
INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA
(Address of principal executive offices)  46204
(Zip Code)
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (800) 331-1476
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class  Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock, Par Value $0.01  New York Stock Exchange
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE
Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes  x No  ¨
Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes  ¨ No  x
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  x No  ¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted
pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit such files).  Yes  x No  ¨
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  x
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller
reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting
company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):
Large accelerated filer x  Accelerated filer ¨
Non-accelerated filer ¨  Smaller reporting company ¨
Emerging growth company ¨    
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for
complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  Yes  ¨  No x
The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant (assuming solely for
the purposes of this calculation that all Directors and executive officers of the registrant are “affiliates”) as of June 29, 2018 was
approximately $61,871,738,688.
As of February 7, 2019, 257,011,928 shares of the Registrant’s Common Stock were outstanding.
 DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K incorporates by reference information from the registrant’s Definitive Proxy Statement
for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 15, 2019.
Anthem, Inc.
 
Annual Report on Form 10-K
For the Year Ended December 31, 2018
 
Table of Contents
 
PART I  
ITEM 1. BUSINESS 3
ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS 22
ITEM 1B.UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS 38
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 38
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 38
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 38
PART II  
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND
ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 39
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 41
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS 42
ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 68
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 70
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 139
ITEM 9A.CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 140
ITEM 9B.OTHER INFORMATION 143
PART III  
ITEM 10.DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 143
ITEM 11.EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 143
ITEM 12.SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 143
ITEM 13.CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
INDEPENDENCE 143
ITEM 14.PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 143
PART IV  
ITEM 15.EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 144
ITEM 16.FORM 10-K SUMMARY 148
SIGNATURES 155
-1-
References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “Anthem” or the “Company” refer to
Anthem, Inc., an Indiana corporation, and, unless the context otherwise requires, its direct and indirect subsidiaries. References to
the term “states” include the District of Columbia, unless the context otherwise requires.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations,” contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-
looking statements reflect our views about future events and financial performance and are generally not historical facts. Words such as
“expect,” “feel,” “believe,” “will,” “may,” “should,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “estimate,” “project,” “forecast,” “plan” and similar
expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to: financial projections and
estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations,
products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of
which are difficult to predict and generally beyond our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in,
or implied or projected by, the forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements that speak only as of the date hereof. You are also urged to carefully review and consider the various risks and other disclosures
discussed in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, which attempt to advise interested
parties of the factors that affect our business. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake any
obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof. These risks and
uncertainties include, but are not limited to: the impact of federal and state regulation, including ongoing changes in the Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, as amended, or collectively, the ACA, and the
ultimate outcome of legal challenges to the ACA; trends in healthcare costs and utilization rates; our ability to contract with providers on
cost-effective and competitive terms; our ability to secure sufficient premium rates, including regulatory approval for and implementation
of such rates; competitive pressures and our ability to adapt to changes in the industry and develop and implement strategic growth
opportunities; reduced enrollment; unauthorized disclosure of member or employee sensitive or confidential information, including the
impact and outcome of any investigations, inquiries, claims and litigation related thereto; risks and uncertainties regarding Medicare and
Medicaid programs, including those related to non-compliance with the complex regulations imposed thereon; our ability to maintain and
achieve improvement in Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, Star ratings and other quality scores and funding risks with
respect to revenue received from participation therein; a negative change in our healthcare product mix; costs and other liabilities
associated with litigation, government investigations, audits or reviews; the ultimate outcome of litigation between Cigna Corporation, or
Cigna, and us related to the merger agreement between the parties, including our claim for damages against Cigna, Cigna’s claim for
payment of a termination fee and other damages against us, and the potential for such litigation to cause us to incur substantial costs,
materially distract management and negatively impact our reputation and financial condition; non-compliance by any party with the
pharmacy benefit management services agreement between Express Scripts, Inc., or Express Scripts, and us, as well as any agreements
governing the transition of pharmacy benefit management services provided to us from Express Scripts to CaremarkPCS Health, L.L.C., a
subsidiary of CVS Health Corporation, which could result in financial penalties, our inability to meet customer demands, and sanctions
imposed by governmental entities, including CMS; medical malpractice or professional liability claims or other risks related to healthcare
services and pharmacy benefit management services provided by our subsidiaries; possible restrictions in the payment of dividends from
our subsidiaries and increases in required minimum levels of capital; the potential negative effect from our substantial amount of
outstanding indebtedness; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; the effects of any negative publicity related to the health benefits
industry in general or us in particular; failure to effectively maintain and modernize our information systems; events that may negatively
affect our licenses with the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association; large scale medical emergencies, such as future public health
epidemics and catastrophes; general risks associated with mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances; possible impairment
of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and other intangible assets; changes in economic
and market conditions, as well as regulations that may negatively affect our liquidity and investment portfolios; changes in U.S. tax laws;
intense competition to attract and retain employees; and, various laws and provisions in our governing documents that may prevent or
discourage takeovers and business combinations.
-2-
PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS.
General
We are one of the largest health benefits companies in the United States in terms of medical membership, serving
approximately 40 million medical members through our affiliated health plans as of December 31, 2018. We are an independent
licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, or BCBSA, an association of independent health benefit plans. We serve
our members as the Blue Cross licensee for California and as the Blue Cross and Blue Shield, or BCBS, licensee for Colorado,
Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New
Hampshire, New York (in the New York City metropolitan area and upstate New York), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern
Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.) and Wisconsin. In a majority of these service areas, we do business as Anthem Blue Cross,
Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Georgia, and Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield or Empire Blue
Cross. We also conduct business through arrangements with other BCBS licensees in Louisiana, South Carolina and western New
York. Through our subsidiaries, we also serve customers in over 25 states across the country as America’s 1st Choice, Amerigroup,
Aspire Health, CareMore, Freedom Health, HealthLink, HealthSun, Optimum HealthCare, Simply Healthcare, and/or UniCare. We
are licensed to conduct insurance operations in all 50 states and the District of Columbia through our subsidiaries.
On February 15, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Freedom Health, Inc., Optimum HealthCare, Inc., America’s 1st
Choice of South Carolina, Inc. and related entities, or collectively, America’s 1st Choice, a Medicare Advantage organization that
offers health maintenance organization, or HMO, products, including Chronic Special Needs Plans and Dual-Eligible Special
Needs Plans under its Freedom Health and Optimum HealthCare brands in Florida and its America’s 1st Choice of South Carolina
brand in South Carolina. At the time of acquisition, through its Medicare Advantage Plans, America’s 1st Choice served
approximately one hundred and thirty-five thousand members in 25 Florida and 3 South Carolina counties. This acquisition aligned
with our plans for continued growth in the Medicare Advantage and Special Needs populations.
In October 2017, we established a new pharmacy benefits manager, or PBM, called IngenioRx, and entered into a five-year
agreement with CaremarkPCS Health, L.L.C., or CVS Health, which is a subsidiary of CVS Health Corporation, to begin offering
PBM solutions (the “CVS PBM Agreement”), which coincides with the conclusion of our current PBM agreement with Express
Scripts, Inc. or Express Scripts, (the “ESI PBM Agreement”). In January 2019, we exercised our contractual right to terminate the
ESI PBM Agreement earlier than the original expiration date of December 31, 2019 due to the recent acquisition of Express Scripts
by Cigna Corporation, or Cigna. As a result of exercising our early termination right, the ESI PBM Agreement will now terminate
on March 1, 2019, and the twelve-month transition period to migrate the business begins on March 2, 2019. At that time CVS
Health is able to begin providing certain PBM services to IngenioRx pursuant to the CVS PBM Agreement. Notwithstanding our
termination of the ESI PBM Agreement, the litigation between us and Express Scripts regarding the ESI PBM Agreement
continues. In March 2016, we filed a lawsuit against Express Scripts seeking to recover damages for pharmacy pricing that is
higher than competitive benchmark pricing and damages related to operational breaches. Express Scripts filed an answer to the
lawsuit disputing our contractual claims and alleging various defenses and counterclaims. For additional information regarding this
lawsuit, see Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings - Express Scripts, Inc. Pharmacy
Benefit Management Litigation,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.
In May 2017, we announced that we were terminating the Agreement and Plan of Merger, or Cigna Merger Agreement,
between us and Cigna. Both we and Cigna have commenced litigation against the other seeking various actions and damages,
including Cigna’s damage claim for a $1.850 billion termination fee pursuant to the terms of the Cigna Merger Agreement. For
additional information about the ongoing litigation related to the Cigna Merger Agreement, see Note 13, “Commitments and
Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings - Cigna Corporation Merger Litigation,” of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
-3-
At Anthem, we believe in working together to achieve our mission of improving lives and communities, simplifying healthcare
and expecting more. As we seek to accomplish these goals through a collaborative focus on execution and delivering for those we
serve, our vision is to be the most innovative, valuable and inclusive health partner. We focus on ensuring quality products and
services that give members access to the care they need. With an unyielding commitment to meeting the needs of our diverse
customers, we are guided by the following values:
• Leadership – Redefine what is possible
• Community – Committed, connected, invested
• Integrity – Do the right thing, with a spirit of excellence
• Agility – Delivery today, transform tomorrow
• Diversity – Open your hearts and minds
By striving to live our values each day and in every interaction, we are committed to simplifying as well as radically
reinventing the healthcare experience for all Americans.
We offer a broad spectrum of network-based managed care plans to Large Group, Small Group, Individual, Medicaid and
Medicare markets. Our managed care plans include: Preferred Provider Organizations, or PPOs; HMOs; Point-of-Service, or POS,
plans; traditional indemnity plans and other hybrid plans, including Consumer-Driven Health Plans, or CDHPs; and hospital only
and limited benefit products. In addition, we provide a broad array of managed care services to self-funded customers, including
claims processing, stop loss insurance, actuarial services, provider network access, medical cost management, disease management,
wellness programs and other administrative services. We provide an array of specialty and other insurance products and services
such as dental, vision, life and disability insurance benefits, radiology benefit management and analytics-driven personal
healthcare. We also provide services to the federal government in connection with the Federal Employee Program®, or FEP®.
The increased focus on healthcare costs by employers, the government and consumers has continued to drive the growth of
alternatives to traditional indemnity health insurance. HMO, PPO and hybrid plans are among the various forms of managed care
products that have been developed. Through these types of products, insurers attempt to contain the cost of healthcare by
negotiating contracts with hospitals, physicians and other providers to deliver high-quality healthcare to members at favorable rates.
These products usually feature medical management and other quality and cost optimization measures such as pre-admission
review and approval for certain non-emergency services, pre-authorization of outpatient surgical procedures, network credentialing
to determine that network physicians and hospitals have the required certifications and expertise, and various levels of care
management programs to help members better understand and navigate the healthcare system. In addition, providers may have
incentives to achieve certain quality measures, may share medical cost risk or may have other incentives to deliver quality medical
services in a cost-effective manner. Also, certain plans offer members incentives for healthy behaviors, such as smoking cessation
and weight management. Members are charged periodic, prepaid premiums and generally pay co-payments, coinsurance and/or
deductibles when they receive services. While the distinctions between the various types of plans have lessened over recent years,
PPO, POS and CDHP products generally provide reduced benefits for out-of-network services, while traditional HMO products
generally provide little to no reimbursement for non-emergency out-of-network utilization, but often offer more generous benefit
coverage. An HMO plan may also require members to select one of the network primary care physicians, or PCPs, to coordinate
their care and approve any specialist or other services.
Economic factors, greater consumer and employer sophistication and accountability have resulted in an increased demand for
choice in both product/benefit designs and provider network configurations. As a result we continue to offer our broad access PPO
networks with multiple benefit designs, but are also focused on leveraging our provider collaboration initiatives with our
Accountable Care Organization, or ACO, partnerships to develop both narrow and tiered network offerings. This array of network
and product configurations allows both the employer and the employee to design and select the combination of benefit designs
(e.g., traditional PPOs, high deductibles, health reimbursement accounts, health savings accounts, PCP based products, tiered
copays) and networks (e.g., broad, narrow, tiered, closed or exclusive provider, and open) that optimize choice, quality and price at
the consumer, employer and market level. We believe we are well-positioned in each of our states to respond to these market
preferences.
-4-
For our fully-insured products, we charge a premium and assume the risk for the cost of covered healthcare services. Under
self-funded products, we charge a fee for services and the employer or plan sponsor reimburses us for the healthcare costs. In
addition, we charge a premium to underwrite stop loss insurance for Local Group and National Account employers that maintain
self-funded health plans.
Our medical membership includes seven different customer types: Local Group, Individual, National Accounts, BlueCard®,
Medicare, Medicaid and FEP®. BCBS-branded business generally refers to members in our service areas licensed by the BCBSA.
Non-BCBS-branded business refers to members in our non-BCBS-branded America’s 1st Choice, Amerigroup, CareMore,
HealthSun, and Simply Healthcare plans, as well as HealthLink and UniCare members. In addition to the above medical
membership, we also serve customers who purchase one or more of our other products or services that are often ancillary to our
health business.
Our products are generally developed and marketed with an emphasis on the differing needs of our customers. In particular,
our product development and marketing efforts take into account the differing characteristics between the various customers served
by us, as well as the unique needs of educational and public entities, labor groups, federal employee health and benefit programs,
national employers and state-run programs servicing low-income, high-risk and underserved markets. Overall, we seek to establish
pricing and product designs to provide value for our customers while achieving an appropriate level of profitability for each of our
customer categories balanced with the competitive objective to grow market share. We believe that one of the keys to our success
has been our focus on these distinct customer types, which better enables us to develop benefit plans and services that meet our
customers’ unique needs.
We market our products through direct marketing activities and an extensive network of independent agents, brokers and retail
partnerships for Individual and Medicare customers, and for certain Local Group customers with a smaller employee base. Products
for National Accounts and Local Group customers with a larger employee base are generally sold through independent brokers or
consultants retained by the customer and working with industry specialists from our in-house sales force. In the Individual and
Small Group markets, we offer on-exchange products through state- or federally-facilitated marketplaces, referred to as public
exchanges, and off-exchange products. Federal subsidies are available for certain members, subject to income and family size, who
purchase public exchange products. 
Being a licensee of the BCBS association of companies, of which there were 36 independent primary licensees as of
December 31, 2018, provides significant market value, especially when competing for very large multi-state employer groups. For
example, each BCBS member company is able to utilize other BCBS licensees’ substantial provider networks and discounts when
any BCBS member works or travels outside of the state in which their policy is written. This program is referred to as BlueCard®
and is a source of revenue when we provide member services in the states where we are the BCBS licensee to individuals who are
customers of BCBS plans not affiliated with us. This program also provides a national provider network for our members when
they travel to other states.
For additional information describing each of our customer types, detailed marketing efforts and changes in medical
membership over the last three years, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Our results of operations depend in large part on accurately predicting healthcare costs and our ability to manage future
healthcare costs through adequate product pricing, medical management, product design and negotiation of favorable provider
contracts.
Advances in medical technology, increases in specialty drug costs, increases in hospital expenditures and other provider costs,
the aging of the population and other demographic characteristics continue to contribute to rising healthcare costs. Our managed
care plans and products are designed to encourage providers and members to participate in quality, cost-effective health benefit
programs by using the full range of our innovative medical management services, quality initiatives and financial incentives. Our
market share and high business retention rates enable us to realize the long-term benefits of investing in preventive and early
detection programs. Our ability to provide cost-effective health benefits products and services is enhanced through a disciplined
approach to internal cost containment, prudent management of our risk exposure and successful integration of acquired businesses.
In addition, our ability to manage selling, general and administrative costs continues to be a driver of our overall profitability.
-5-
The future results of our operations will also be impacted by certain external forces and resulting changes in our business
model and strategy. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010,
as amended, or collectively, the ACA, has changed and may continue to make broad-based changes to the U.S. healthcare system.
The ACA presented us with new growth opportunities, but also introduced new risks, regulatory challenges and uncertainties, and
required changes in the way products are designed, underwritten, priced, distributed and administered. Changes to our business
environment are likely to continue for the next several years as elected officials at the national and state levels continue to propose
and enact significant modifications to existing laws and regulations, including the reduction of the individual mandate penalty to
zero effective January 1, 2019, elimination of funding for cost-sharing subsidies made available for qualified individuals, and
changes to taxes and fees. In addition, the legal challenges regarding the ACA, including the December 2018 decision of the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Texas, Fort Worth Division invalidating the ACA (the “2018 Texas District Court ACA
Decision”), which judgment has been stayed pending appeal, continue to contribute to this uncertainty. We will continue to evaluate
the impact of the ACA as additional guidance is made available and any further developments or judicial rulings occur. For
additional discussion, see “Regulation,” herein and Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
In addition to the external forces discussed in the preceding paragraph, our results of operations are impacted by levels and mix
of membership which can change as a result of the quality and pricing of our health benefits products and services, economic
conditions, changes in unemployment, acquisitions, entry into new markets and expansions in or exits from existing markets. Our
reduced participation in the Individual ACA-compliant market in 2018 led to a decrease in our fully-insured membership which
was partially offset by an increase in our self-funded membership. We believe the self-funded portion of our group membership
base will continue to increase as a percentage of total group membership. These membership trends could be negatively impacted
by various factors that could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations such as general economic downturns
that result in business failures, failure to obtain new customers or retain existing customers, premium increases, benefit changes or
our exit from a specific market. See Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” and Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Private exchanges have gained visibility in the market based on the promise of helping employers reduce costs, increase
consumer engagement and manage the complexities created by the ACA and other market forces. While private exchanges have
been a distribution channel in the Medicare and Individual markets for some time, in more recent years the Commercial market has
received an increased level of attention from the consulting and broker communities as well as health insurance carriers. In
response, we have continued our broad-based strategy of offering our own private exchange, Anthem Health Marketplace, a
consumer experience platform, to groups, while also participating in four large national consultant-led exchanges, several regional
broker-led exchanges and various Individual, Commercial and Medicare exchanges. To date, adoption levels in the Commercial
market overall have been lower than analyst predictions. While the ultimate volume, pace of growth and winning business models
remain highly uncertain in this space, we continue to believe we are well positioned to adapt with the market as it evolves.
During 2018, we strategically reduced our participation in the Individual ACA-compliant market. Our strategy has been, and
will continue to be, to only participate in rating regions where we have an appropriate level of confidence that these markets are on
a path toward sustainability, including, but not limited to, factors such as expected financial performance, regulatory environment,
and underlying market characteristics. We currently offer Individual ACA-compliant products in 73 of the 143 rating regions in
which we operate.
We believe healthcare is local and that we have the strong local presence required to understand and meet local customer
needs. Further, we believe we are well-positioned to deliver what customers want: innovative, choice-based and affordable
products; distinctive service; simplified transactions; and better access to information for quality care. Our local presence,
combined with our national expertise, has created opportunities for collaborative programs that reward physicians and hospitals for
clinical quality and excellence. We feel that our commitment to health improvement and care management provides added value to
customers and healthcare professionals. Ultimately, we believe that practical and sustainable improvements in healthcare must
focus on improving healthcare quality while managing costs for total affordability. We have implemented initiatives driving
payment innovation and partnering with providers to lower cost and improve the quality of healthcare for our members and we
continue to develop new and innovative ways to effectively manage risk and engage our members. In addition, we are focused on
achieving efficiencies from our national scale while optimizing service performance for our customers. Finally, we expect to
continue to rationalize our portfolio of businesses and products and align our
-6-
investments to capitalize on new opportunities to drive growth in our existing markets and expand into new markets in the future.
We continue to enhance interactions with customers, providers, brokers, agents, employees and other stakeholders through
web-enabled technology and improving internal operations. Our approach includes not only sales and distribution of health benefits
products on the Internet, but also implementing advanced capabilities that improve services benefiting customers, agents, brokers,
and providers while optimizing administrative costs. These enhancements can also help improve the quality, coordination and
safety of healthcare through increased communications between patients and their physicians.
In pursuing our vision of being the most innovative, valuable and inclusive partner, we intend to transform healthcare by
providing trusted and caring solutions and delivering quality products and services that give customers access to the care they need.
At the same time, we will focus on earnings, organic membership growth, improvements in our operating cost structure, strategic
acquisitions and the efficient use of capital.
Significant Transactions
The significant transactions that have occurred over the last five years that have impacted or will impact our capital structure or
that have influenced or will influence how we conduct our business operations include:
•Acquisition of America’s 1st Choice (2018);
•Acquisition of HealthSun Health Plans, Inc., or HealthSun (2017);
•Acquisition of Simply Healthcare Holdings, Inc., or Simply Healthcare (2015);
•Use of Capital—Board of Directors declarations of dividends on our common stock (2013 through January 2019);
repurchases of our common stock (2019 and prior); and debt repurchases and new debt issuances (2018 and prior); and
•Divestiture of 1-800 CONTACTS, Inc. (2014).
For additional information regarding certain of these transactions, see Note 3, “Business Acquisitions,” Note 12, “Debt,” and
Note 14, “Capital Stock,” to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.
Competition
The managed care industry is highly competitive, both nationally and in our local markets. Competition continues to be
intense due to aggressive marketing and pricing, business consolidations, new competitors in the market, a proliferation of new
products, the impact of the ACA, and increased quality awareness and price sensitivity among customers.
We believe that participants in the managed care industry compete for customers based on quality of service, price, access to
provider networks, access to care management and wellness programs (including health information), innovation, breadth and
flexibility of products and benefits, reputation (including National Committee on Quality Assurance, or NCQA, accreditation
status), brand recognition and financial stability. Our ability to attract and retain customers is substantially tied to our ability to
distinguish ourselves from our competitors in these areas.
Also, a health plan’s ability to interact with employers, customers and other third parties (including healthcare professionals)
through electronic data transfer has become a more important competitive factor, and we have made significant investments in
technology to enhance our electronic interaction with providers, employers, customers and third parties.
We believe our exclusive right to market products under the most recognized brand in the industry, BCBS, in our most
significant markets provides us with greater brand recognition over competitive product offerings. Our provider networks in our
markets enable us to achieve efficiencies and distinctive service levels by allowing us to offer a broad range of health benefits to
our customers on a more cost-effective basis than many of our competitors. We strive to distinguish our products through provider
access, service, care management, product value and brand recognition.
-7-
Product pricing remains competitive and we strive to price our healthcare benefit products consistent with anticipated
underlying medical trends. We believe our pricing strategy, based on predictive modeling, proprietary research and data-driven
processes has positioned us to benefit from the potential growth opportunities available through entry into new markets, expansions
in existing markets and as a result of any subsequent changes to the current regulatory scheme. We believe that our pricing strategy,
brand name and network quality will provide a strong foundation for membership growth opportunities in the future.
To build our provider networks, we compete with other health benefits plans for the best contracts with hospitals, physicians
and other providers. We believe that physicians and other providers primarily consider customer volume, reimbursement rates,
timeliness of reimbursement and administrative service capabilities along with the reduction of non-value added administrative
tasks when deciding whether to contract with a health benefits plan.
At the sales and distribution level, we compete for qualified agents and brokers to recommend and distribute our products.
Strong competition exists among insurance companies and health benefits plans for agents and brokers with demonstrated ability to
secure new business and maintain existing accounts. We believe that the quality and price of our products, support services,
reputation and prior relationships, along with a reasonable commission structure are the factors agents and brokers consider in
choosing whether to market our products. We believe that we have good relationships with our agents and brokers, and that our
products, support services and commission structure compare favorably to those of our competitors in all of our markets. Typically,
we are the largest competitor in each of our BCBS branded markets and, thus, are a closely-watched target by other insurance
competitors.
Reportable Segments
We manage our operations through three reportable segments: Commercial & Specialty Business, Government Business and
Other. We regularly evaluate the appropriateness of our reportable segments, particularly in light of organizational changes, merger
and acquisition activity and changing laws and regulations. During the fourth quarter of 2018, we reclassified certain ancillary
businesses to align how our segments are currently being managed. Prior year amounts have been reclassified for comparability.
Current reportable segments may change in the future.
Our Commercial & Specialty Business and Government Business segments both offer a diversified mix of managed care
products, including PPOs, HMOs, traditional indemnity benefits and POS plans, as well as a variety of hybrid benefit plans
including CDHPs, hospital only and limited benefit products.
Our Commercial & Specialty Business segment includes our Local Group, National Accounts, Individual and Specialty
businesses. Business units in the Commercial & Specialty Business segment offer fully-insured health products; provide a broad
array of managed care services to self-funded customers including claims processing, underwriting, stop loss insurance, actuarial
services, provider network access, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs and other administrative
services; and provide an array of specialty and other insurance products and services such as dental, vision, life and disability
insurance benefits.
Our Government Business segment includes our Medicare and Medicaid businesses, National Government Services, or NGS,
and services provided to the federal government in connection with FEP®. Medicaid makes federal matching funds available to all
states for the delivery of healthcare benefits to eligible individuals, principally those with incomes below specified levels who meet
other state-specified requirements. Medicaid is structured to allow each state to establish its own eligibility standards, benefits
package, payment rates and program administration under broad federal guidelines. Our Medicare customers are Medicare-eligible
individual members age 65 and over who have enrolled in Medicare Advantage, a managed care alternative for the Medicare
program, or who have purchased Medicare Supplement benefit coverage, some disabled members under age 65, or members of all
ages with end stage renal disease. Medicare Supplement policies are sold to Medicare recipients as supplements to the benefits they
receive from the Medicare program. Rates are filed with, and in some cases approved by, state insurance departments. Most of the
premium for Medicare Advantage is paid directly by the federal government on behalf of the participant who may also be charged a
small premium. Additionally, through our alliance partnership engagements with larger provider groups and BCBS plans, we offer
a variety of Medicaid services that include joint ventures, administrative service offerings, and full-risk arrangements. NGS acts as
a Medicare contractor for the federal government in several regions across the nation.
-8-
Our Other segment includes certain eliminations and corporate expenses not allocated to either of our other reportable
segments.
Through our participation in various federal government programs, we generated approximately 19.8%, 17.8% and 18.2% of
our total consolidated revenues from agencies of the U.S. government for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016,
respectively. These revenues are contained in the Government Business segment. An immaterial amount of our total consolidated
revenues is derived from activities outside of the U.S.
 Products and Services
A general description of our products and services is provided below:
Preferred Provider Organization:    PPO products offer the member an option to select any healthcare provider, with benefits
reimbursed by us at a higher level when care is received from a participating network provider. Increasingly, customers are
choosing our PPO products offered with an exclusive provider organization which eliminates coverage out of network. Coverage is
subject to co-payments or deductibles and coinsurance, with member cost sharing usually limited by out-of-pocket maximums.
Consumer-Driven Health Plans:    CDHPs provide consumers with increased financial responsibility, choice and control
regarding how their healthcare dollars are spent. Generally, CDHPs combine a high-deductible PPO plan with an employer-funded
and/or employee-funded personal care account, which may result in tax benefits to the employee. Some or all of the dollars
remaining in the personal care account at year-end can be rolled over to the next year for future healthcare needs.
Traditional Indemnity:    Indemnity products offer the member an option to select any healthcare provider for covered services.
Coverage is subject to deductibles and coinsurance, with member cost sharing usually limited by out-of-pocket maximums.
Health Maintenance Organization:    HMO products include comprehensive managed care benefits, generally through a
participating network of physicians, hospitals and other providers. A member in one of our HMOs must typically select a PCP from
our network. PCPs generally are family practitioners, internists or pediatricians who provide necessary preventive and primary
medical care, and are generally responsible for coordinating other necessary healthcare services. We offer HMO plans with varying
levels of co-payments, which result in different levels of premium rates.
 Point-of-Service:    POS products blend the characteristics of HMO, PPO and indemnity plans. Members can have
comprehensive HMO-style benefits through participating network providers with minimum out-of-pocket expenses (co-payments)
and also can go directly, without a referral, to any provider they choose, subject to, among other things, certain deductibles and
coinsurance. Member cost sharing is limited by out-of-pocket maximums.
ACA Public Exchange and Off-Exchange Products: The ACA required the modification of existing products and development
of new products to meet the requirements of the legislation, subject to certain transitional relief. Individual and Small Group
products cover essential health benefits as defined in the ACA along with many other requirements and cost sharing features.
Individual and Small Group products offered on and off the public exchanges meet the definition of the “metal” product
requirements (bronze, silver, gold and platinum) and each metal product must satisfy a specific actuarial value. Health insurers
participating on the public exchanges must offer at least one silver and one gold product.
Administrative Services:    In addition to fully-insured products, we provide administrative services to Large Group, Small
Group and National Account employers that maintain self-funded health plans. These administrative services include underwriting,
actuarial services, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs, claims processing and other administrative
services for self-funded employers. Self-funded health plans are also able to use our provider networks and to realize savings
through our negotiated provider arrangements, while allowing employers the ability to design certain health benefit plans in
accordance with their own requirements and objectives. We also underwrite stop loss insurance for self-funded plans.
 BlueCard®:    BlueCard® is a national program that links participating healthcare providers and independent BCBS plans.
BlueCard® host members are generally members who reside in or travel to a state in which an Anthem subsidiary is the Blue Cross
and/or Blue Shield licensee and who are covered under an employer sponsored health plan serviced by a non-Anthem controlled
BCBS licensee, which is the “home” plan. We perform certain administrative functions for BlueCard®
-9-
host members, for which we receive administrative fees from the BlueCard® members’ home plans. Other administrative functions,
including maintenance of enrollment information and customer service, are performed by the home plan.
 Medicare Plans:    We offer a wide variety of plans, products and options to individuals age 65 and older such as Medicare
Supplement plans; Medicare Advantage, including Special Needs Plans; Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plans, or Medicare Part
D; and dual-eligible programs through Medicare-Medicaid Plans, or MMPs. Medicare Supplement plans typically pay the
difference between healthcare costs incurred by a beneficiary and amounts paid by Medicare. Medicare Advantage plans provide
Medicare beneficiaries with a managed care alternative to traditional Medicare and often include a Medicare Part D benefit. In
addition, our Medicare Advantage Special Needs Plans provide tailored benefits to Medicare beneficiaries who have chronic
diseases and also cover certain dual-eligible customers, who are low-income seniors and persons under age 65 with disabilities.
Medicare Part D offers a prescription drug plan to Medicare and MMP beneficiaries. MMP is a demonstration program focused on
serving members who are dually eligible for Medicaid and Medicare, which was established as a result of the passage of the ACA.
We offer these plans to customers through our health benefit subsidiaries throughout the country, including America’s 1st Choice,
Amerigroup, CareMore, HealthSun and Simply Healthcare.
 Individual Plans:    We offer a full range of health insurance plans with a variety of options and deductibles for individuals
who are not covered by employer-sponsored coverage and are not eligible for government sponsored plans, such as Medicare
and/or Medicaid. Individual policies are generally sold through independent agents and brokers, retail partnerships, our in-house
sales force or via the exchanges. Individual business is sold on a fully-insured basis. We offer on-exchange products through public
exchanges and off-exchange products. Federal premium subsidies are available only for certain public exchange Individual
products. Unsubsidized Individual customers are generally more sensitive to product pricing and, to a lesser extent, the
configuration of the network and the efficiency of administration. Instability in the Individual market has resulted in a targeted
approach where we offer products in select geographies.
 Medicaid Plans and Other State-Sponsored Programs:    We have contracts to serve members enrolled in publicly funded
healthcare programs, including Medicaid; ACA-related Medicaid expansion programs; Temporary Assistance for Needy Families,
or TANF; programs for seniors and people with disabilities, or SPD; Children’s Health Insurance Programs, or CHIP; and specialty
programs such as those focused on long-term services and support, or LTSS, HIV/AIDS, children living in foster care, behavioral
health and/or substance abuse disorders, and intellectual disabilities and/or developmental disabilities, or ID/DD programs. The
Medicaid program makes federal matching funds available to all states for the delivery of healthcare benefits for low income and/or
high medical risk individuals. These programs are managed by the individual states based on broad federal guidelines. TANF is a
state and federally funded program designed for the population consisting primarily of low-income children and their guardians.
SPD is a federal income supplement program designed for Supplemental Security Income recipients; however, states can broaden
eligibility criteria. This population consists of low-income seniors and people with disabilities. CHIP is a state and federally funded
program that provides healthcare coverage to children not otherwise covered by Medicaid or other insurance programs. LTSS is a
state and federally funded program that offers states a broad and flexible set of program design options and refers to the delivery of
long-term services and support for our members who receive home and community- or institution-based services for long-term
care. Our HIV/AIDS program is a state and federally sponsored program that provides services to those living with HIV/AIDS. Our
Foster Care program is a state and federally sponsored program serving children with complex needs within the foster care system.
Our Behavioral Health program is a state and federally sponsored program providing services to those with mental health and/or
substance abuse disorders. ID/DD is a state and federally sponsored program serving those living with limitations in intellectual
functioning and adaptive behavior learning disabilities. Our Medicaid plans also cover certain dual-eligible customers, as
previously described above, who also receive Medicare benefits. We provide Medicaid and other state sponsored services, such as
administrative services, in Arkansas, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana,
Maryland, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin and
Washington D.C.
 Pharmacy Products:    We market and sell an integrated prescription drug product to both fully-insured and self-funded
customers through our health benefit subsidiaries throughout the country. This comprehensive product includes features such as
drug formularies, a pharmacy network, prescription drug database and mail order capabilities. Since December 1, 2009, we have
delegated certain functions and administrative services related to our integrated prescription drug products to Express Scripts under
a ten-year contract, excluding our HealthSun and America’s 1st Choice subsidiaries, our CareMore operations in the state of
Arizona and certain self-insured members who have exclusive agreements with different PBM service
-10-
providers. Express Scripts manages the network of pharmacy providers, operates mail order pharmacies and processes prescription
drug claims on our behalf, while we sell and support the product for clients, make formulary decisions, set drug benefit design
strategy and provide front line member support. In October 2017, we established a new PBM, called IngenioRx, and entered into a
five-year agreement with CVS Health to begin offering PBM solutions upon the conclusion of the current ESI PBM Agreement. As
part of the CVS PBM Agreement, and consistent with our strong reputation as a leader in healthcare delivery, we will drive clinical
and formulary strategy and development, member and employer experiences, operations, sales, marketing, account management,
and retail network strategy. We will delegate certain administrative services, including claims processing and prescription
fulfillment, to CVS Health. Our current ESI PBM Agreement will terminate on March 1, 2019, and the twelve-month transition
provided for in the ESI PBM Agreement to migrate the services begins on March 2, 2019. At that time CVS Health is able to begin
providing certain PBM services to IngenioRx. Notwithstanding our termination of the ESI PBM Agreement, the litigation between
us and Express Scripts regarding the ESI PBM Agreement continues. In March 2016, we filed a lawsuit against Express Scripts
seeking to recover damages for pharmacy pricing that is higher than competitive benchmark pricing. For additional information,
see Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings - Express Scripts, Inc. Pharmacy Benefit
Management Litigation,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.
 Life Insurance:    We offer an array of competitive individual and group life insurance benefit products to both Large Group
and Small Group customers in conjunction with our health plans. The life products include term life and accidental death and
dismemberment.
 Disability:    We offer short-term and long-term disability products, usually in conjunction with our health plans.
 Radiology Benefit Management:    We offer outpatient diagnostic imaging management services to health plans which promote
the most appropriate use of clinical services to improve the quality of care delivered to members. These services include utilization
management for advanced diagnostic imaging procedures, network development and optimization, patient safety, claims
adjudication and provider payment.
 Personal Health Care Guidance:    We offer evidence-based and analytics-driven personal healthcare guidance. These services
help improve the quality, coordination and safety of healthcare, enhance communications between patients and their physicians,
and reduce medical costs.
 Dental:    Our dental plans include networks in certain states in which we operate. Many of the dental benefits are provided to
customers enrolled in our health plans and are offered on both a fully-insured and self-funded basis. Our members also have access
to additional dental providers through our participation in the National Dental GRID, a national dental network developed by and
for BCBS plans. The National Dental GRID includes dentists in all 50 states and the District of Columbia and provides multi-state
customers with a national solution providing in-network discounts across the country. Additionally, we offer managed dental
services to other healthcare plans to assist those plans in providing dental benefits to their customers.
 Vision Services and Products:    Our vision plans include networks within the states in which we operate. Many of the vision
benefits are provided to customers enrolled in our health plans and are offered on both a fully-insured and self-funded basis.
 Medicare Administrative Operations:    Through our subsidiary, NGS, we serve as a fiscal intermediary, carrier and Medicare
administrative contractor for the federal government providing administrative services for the Medicare program, Parts A and B,
which generally provides coverage for persons who are 65 or older and for persons who are under 65 and disabled or with end-
stage renal disease. Part A of the Medicare program provides coverage for services provided by hospitals, skilled nursing facilities
and other healthcare facilities. Part B of the Medicare program provides coverage for services provided by physicians, physical and
occupational therapists and other professional providers, as well as certain durable medical equipment and medical supplies.
 Networks and Provider Relations
Our relationships with physicians, hospitals and professionals that render healthcare services to our members are guided by
local, regional and national standards for network development, reimbursement and contract methodologies. While
-11-
following industry standards, we are simultaneously seeking to lead transformation efforts within our healthcare system, moving
from a fragmented model premised on episodic intervention to one based on proactive, coordinated care built around the needs of
the patient. A key element of this transformation involves a transition from traditional fee-for-service payment models to models
where providers are paid based on the value, both in quality and affordability, of the care they deliver.
 We establish “market-based” hospital reimbursement payments that we believe are fair, but aggressive, and among the most
competitive in the market. We also seek to ensure that physicians in our network are paid in a timely manner at appropriate rates. In
many instances, we deploy multi-year contracting strategies, including case rates or fixed rates, to limit our exposure to medical
cost inflation and to increase cost predictability. We maintain both broad and narrow provider networks to ensure member choice,
based on both price and access needs, while implementing programs designed to improve the quality of care our members receive.
Increasingly, we are supplementing our broad-based networks with smaller or more cost-effective networks that are designed to be
attractive to a more price-sensitive customer segment, such as public exchange customers.
 Our reimbursement strategies vary across markets and depend on the degree of consolidation and integration of physician
groups and hospitals. Under a fee-for-service reimbursement methodology for physicians, fee schedules are developed at the state
level based on an assessment of several factors and conditions, including the CMS resource-based relative value system, or
RBRVS, medical practice cost inflation and physician supply. We utilize CMS RBRVS fee schedules as a reference point for fee
schedule development and analysis. The RBRVS structure was developed, maintained, and updated by CMS and is used by the
Medicare program and other major payers. In addition, we have implemented and continue to expand physician incentive
contracting, or “pay-for-performance,” which ties physician payment levels to performance on clinical measures.
 While we generally do not delegate full financial responsibility to our physician providers in the form of capitation-based
reimbursement, we maintain capitation-based arrangements in certain markets where we determine that market dynamics result in it
being a useful method to lower costs and reduce underwriting risk.
 Our hospital contracts provide for a variety of reimbursement arrangements depending on local market dynamics and current
hospital utilization efficiency. Most hospitals are reimbursed a fixed amount per day or reimbursed a per-case amount, per
admission, for inpatient covered services. A small percentage of hospitals, primarily rural, sole community hospitals, are
reimbursed on a discount from approved charge basis for covered services. Our “per-case” reimbursement methods utilize many of
the same attributes contained in Medicare’s Diagnosis Related Groups, or DRG, methodology. Hospital outpatient services are
reimbursed by fixed case rates, fee schedules or percent of approved charges. Our hospital contracts recognize unique hospital
attributes, such as academic medical centers or community hospitals, and the volume of care performed for our members. To
improve predictability of expected costs, we frequently use a multi-year contracting approach with providers. In addition, the
majority of our hospital contracts include a pay-for-performance component where reimbursement levels are linked to improved
clinical performance, patient safety and medical error reduction. 
Our provider engagement and contracting strategies are moving away from “unit price” or volume-based payment models to
payment models that align compensation with the value delivered as measured by healthcare outcomes, quality and cost. Our
Enhanced Personal Health Care program augments traditional fee-for-service with shared savings opportunities for providers when
actual healthcare costs are below projected costs, and providers meet specific quality measures. The quality measures are based on
nationally accepted, credible standards (e.g., NCQA, the American Diabetes Association and the American Academy of Pediatrics)
and span preventive, acute and chronic care. We understand, however, that payment incentives alone are insufficient to create the
large-scale, system-wide transformation required to achieve meaningful impacts on cost, quality and member experience.
Accordingly, we invested in care delivery transformation and population health management support structures to help providers
succeed under value-based payment models. This support includes our web-based population health management technology and
teams of dedicated practice consultants who work alongside providers, sharing best practices, and helping them leverage our data to
the benefit of their patients. In some of these arrangements, participating physician practices receive a per-member, per-month
clinical coordination fee to compensate them for important care management activities that occur outside of the patient visit (e.g.,
purchasing an electronic health record or hiring care management nurses), all of which have been shown to reduce healthcare costs
and improve care outcomes. Since the launch of Enhanced Personal Health Care, we now have arrangements with provider
organizations covering 52% of our PCPs and have rolled this program out in each of the fourteen states where we operate as a
licensee of the BCBSA.
-12-
Medical Management Programs
Our medical management programs include a broad array of activities that facilitate improvements in the quality of care
provided to our members and promote cost-effective medical care. These medical management activities and programs are
administered and directed by physicians and nurses. The goals of our medical management strategies are to ensure that the care
delivered to our members is supported by appropriate medical and scientific evidence, is received on a timely basis and occurs in
the most appropriate setting. The following is a general description of our medical management programs, which are available to
our members depending on the particular plan or product in which they participate:
Precertification:    A traditional medical management program involves assessment of the appropriateness of certain
hospitalizations and other medical services prior to the services being rendered. For example, precertification is used to determine
whether a set of hospital and medical services is being appropriately applied to the member’s clinical condition, in accordance with
criteria for medical necessity as that term is defined in the member’s benefits contract. All of our health plans have implemented
precertification programs for common high-tech radiology studies, including cardiac diagnostic testing, addressing an area of
historically significant cost trends. Through our American Imaging Management, Inc. subsidiary, doing business as AIM Specialty
Health, or AIM, we promote appropriate, safe and affordable member care in imaging, as well as oncology and sleep management.
These expanded specialty benefit management solutions leverage clinical expertise and technology to engage our provider
communities and members in more effective and efficient use of outpatient services.
Care Coordination:    Another traditional medical management strategy we use is care coordination, which is based on
nationally recognized criteria developed by third-party medical specialists. With inpatient care coordination, the requirements and
intensity of services during a patient’s hospital stay are reviewed, at times by an onsite skilled nurse professional in collaboration
with the hospital’s medical and nursing staff, in order to coordinate care and determine the most effective transition of care from the
hospital setting. In addition, guidance for many continued stay cases is reviewed with physician medical directors to ensure
appropriate utilization of medical services. We also coordinate care for outpatient services to help ensure that patients with chronic
conditions who receive care from multiple physicians are able to manage the exchange of information between physicians and
coordinate office visits to their physicians.
Case Management:    We have implemented a medical management strategy focused on identifying the small percentage of the
membership that will require a high level of intervention to manage their healthcare needs. The registered nurses and medical
directors focus on members likely to be readmitted to the hospital and help them coordinate their care through pharmacy
compliance, post-hospital care, follow-up visits to see their physician and support in their home. We are also working to move
increasing aspects of this work to the providers we work with via our provider collaboration efforts, a set of capabilities, offerings,
programs and products that help us partner with providers to leverage data, insights and technology to deliver the right care, at the
right time, in the right place.
Formulary management:    We have developed formularies, which are selections of drugs based on clinical quality and
effectiveness. A pharmacy and therapeutics committee of physicians uses scientific and clinical evidence to ensure that our
members have access to the appropriate drug therapies. 
Medical policy:    A medical policy group determines our national policy for the application of new medical technologies and
treatments. This group is comprised of internal and external physician leaders from various specialties and areas of the country,
working in cooperation with academic medical centers, practicing community physicians and medical specialty organizations such
as the American College of Radiology and national organizations such as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the
American Cancer Society.
Quality programs:    We are actively engaged with our hospital and physician networks to enable them to improve medical and
surgical care and achieve better outcomes for our members. We endorse, encourage and incentivize hospitals and physicians to
support national initiatives to improve the quality of clinical care and patient outcomes and to reduce medication errors and hospital
infections.
External review procedures:    We work with outside experts through a process of external review to provide our members
scientifically and clinically, evidence-based medical care. When we receive member concerns, we have formal appeals procedures
that ultimately allow coverage disputes related to medical necessity decisions under the benefits contract to be settled by
independent expert physicians.
-13-
Service management:    In HMO and POS networks, PCPs serve as the overall coordinators of members’ healthcare needs by
providing an array of preventive health services and overseeing referrals to specialists for appropriate medical care. In PPO
networks, members have access to network physicians without a PCP serving as the coordinator of care.
Provider Cost Comparison Tools: Through Estimate Your Cost, Anthem Care Comparison and other tools, our members can
compare cost estimates and quality data for common services at contracted providers, with cost estimates for facility, professional
and ancillary services. These cost estimates bundle related services typically performed at the time of the procedure, not just for the
procedure itself. Users can review cost data for over 400 procedures in 50 states. Members can also estimate out-of-pocket costs
based on a member’s own benefit coverage, deductible, and out-of-pocket maximum. We also offer information on overall facility
ratings and patient experience using trusted third-party data. We continue to work on enhancing and evolving our tools to assist
members in making informed and value-based healthcare decisions. In addition, we collaborate with an external independent
vendor to support employers wanting to purchase a consumer engagement web solution with certain additional functionality.
Personal Health Care Guidance:    These services help improve the quality, coordination and safety of healthcare, enhance
communications between patients and their physicians, and reduce medical costs. Examples of services include member and
physician messaging, providing access to evidence-based medical guidelines, physician quality assessment, and other consulting
services.
Anthem Health Guide: Anthem Health Guide integrates customer service with clinical and wellness coaching to provide easier
navigation of healthcare services for our members. Members are supported by a team of nurses, coaches, educators, and social
workers using voice, click-to-chat, secure email and mobile technology. Our Smart Engagement Platform supports this integrated
team using our smart engagement triggers for speech recognition, preventative and clinical gaps in care and highlighting when we
have members who are identified for current healthcare support. Anthem Health Guide is fully integrated with our specialty
products, such as dental, vision and other supplemental products, to ensure members can optimize their benefits.
Anthem Whole Health Connection: Anthem Whole Health Connection is focused on whole person health and connects
medical, pharmacy, dental, vision, disability and supplemental health clinical and claims data to proactively identify health issues
and engage our members with their health providers in new ways to deliver better healthcare experience and lower cost. Anthem
Whole Health Connection is included with Anthem health benefits and one or more of the pharmacy, dental, vision, life, disability
or supplemental health coverage plans.
Care Management Programs
We continue to expand our 360º Health suite of integrated care management programs and tools. 360º Health offers the
following programs, among others, which are available to our members depending on the particular plan or product in which they
participate, and have been proven to increase quality and reduce medical costs for our members:
ConditionCare and FutureMoms are care management and maternity management programs that serve as adjuncts to physician
care. Skilled nurse professionals with added support from our team of dietitians, social workers, pharmacists, health educators and
other health professionals help participants understand their condition, their doctor’s orders and how to become a better self-
manager of their condition. We also offer members infertility consultation through our SpecialOffers@Anthem program, a
comprehensive and integrated assembly of discounted health and wellness products and services from a variety of the nation’s
leading retailers.
24/7 NurseLine offers access to qualified, registered nurses anytime. This allows our members to make informed decisions
about the appropriate level of care and avoid unnecessary worry. This program also includes a referral process to the nearest urgent
care facility, a robust audio library, accessible by phone, with more than 600 health and wellness topics, as well as on-line health
education topics designed to educate members about symptoms and treatment of many common health concerns.
Case Management is an advanced care management program that reaches out to participants with multiple healthcare issues
who are at risk for frequent and high levels of medical care in order to offer support and assistance in managing their healthcare
needs. Case Management identifies candidates through claims analysis using predictive modeling techniques, the
-14-
use of health risk assessment data, utilization management reports and referrals from a physician or one of our other programs, such
as the 24/7 NurseLine.
MyHealth Advantage utilizes integrated information systems and sophisticated data analytics to help our members improve
their compliance with evidence-based care guidelines, providing personal care notes that alert members to potential gaps in care,
enable more prudent healthcare choices, and assist in the realization of member out-of-pocket cost savings. Key opportunities are
also shared with physicians through Availity® at the time of membership eligibility verification. Availity® is an electronic data
interchange system that allows for the exchange of health information among providers over a secure network.
MyHealth Coach provides our members with a professional guide who helps them navigate the healthcare system and make
better decisions about their well-being. MyHealth Coach proactively reaches out to people who are at risk for potentially serious
health issues or have complex healthcare needs. Our health coaches help participants understand and manage chronic conditions,
handle any health and wellness related services they need and make smart lifestyle choices.
HealthyLifestyles helps employees transform unhealthy habits into positive ones by focusing on behaviors that can have a
positive effect on their health and their employer’s financial well-being. HealthyLifestyles programs include smoking cessation,
weight management, stress management, physical activity, and diet and nutrition.
Behavioral Health Case Management is an integrated component of the health plan, supporting a wide range of members who
are impacted by their behavioral health condition including specialty areas such as eating disorders, anxiety, depression and
substance use. The program assists members and their families with obtaining appropriate behavioral health treatment, offering
community resources, providing education and telephonic support, and promoting provider collaboration.
Autism Spectrum Disorder is a specialized case management program staffed by a dedicated team of clinicians who have been
trained on the unique challenges and needs of families with a member who has a diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder. These
clinicians provide education, information on community resources to help with care and support, guidance on the appropriate usage
of benefits, and assistance in exploring effective treatments, such as medical services, that may help the member and their families.
Employee Assistance Programs provide 24/7 telephonic support for personal and crisis events. Members also gain access to
many resources that allow support within work and personal life by providing quick and easy access to confidential resources to
help meet the challenges of daily life. Examples of services available include counseling, referral assistance with child care, health
and wellness, financial issues, legal issues, adoption and daily living.
Healthcare Quality Initiatives
Increasingly, the healthcare industry is able to define quality healthcare based on preventive health measurements, outcomes of
care and optimal care management for chronic disease. A key to our success has been our ability to work with our network
physicians and hospitals to improve the quality and outcomes of the healthcare services provided to our members. Our ability to
promote quality medical care has been recognized by NCQA, the largest and most respected national accreditation program for
managed care health plans.
Several quality healthcare measures, including the Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set, or HEDIS®, have been
incorporated into NCQA’s accreditation processes. HEDIS® measures range from preventive services, such as screening
mammography and pediatric immunization, to elements of care, including decreasing the complications of diabetes and improving
treatment for patients with heart disease. For health plans, NCQA’s highest accreditation status of Excellent is granted only to those
plans that demonstrate levels of service and clinical quality that meet or exceed NCQA’s rigorous requirements for consumer
protection and quality improvement. Plans earning this accreditation level must also achieve HEDIS® results that are in the highest
range of national or regional performance. Details for each of our plans’ accreditation levels can be found at www.ncqa.org.
Our wholly-owned health outcomes research subsidiary, HealthCore, Inc., or HealthCore, generates consistent and actionable
evidence to support decision making while helping to guide fresh initiatives for a range of stakeholders in the healthcare industry.
By leveraging a rich array of medical and pharmacy utilization data queried from administrative claims, patient surveys, medical
charts and laboratory diagnostics, among other health records, HealthCore’s multi-disciplinary
-15-
research teams uncover a broad spectrum of safety, effectiveness, pharmacoepidemiology, and health economics evidence.
HealthCore’s real world evidence and comparative effectiveness research, among other data, has played roles in the product
planning and development campaigns of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies and today it lists most of the leading
biologics and drug manufacturers as clients or alliance partners. Its health plan research has led to better insights into evidence-
based treatment approaches, the development of value-based initiatives to drive access and adherence to treatment, and the crafting
of incentives to modify patient and provider behavior. One of HealthCore’s predominant initiatives is its governmental and
academic collaborations that include cooperation with some of the country’s top institutions and federal agencies, including the
Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute and the National Institutes of Health.
HealthCore is also an active contributor to the FDA’s medical product safety surveillance Sentinel program. Additionally,
HealthCore has taken a thought-leadership position in the development of pragmatic clinical trials. As a notable contributor to the
health outcomes evidence base, HealthCore’s research findings are broadly disseminated during presentations at national and
international medical meetings and are published in a variety of respected peer-reviewed medical and health services journals.
Our AIM subsidiary supports quality by implementing clinical appropriateness and patient safety solutions for advanced
imaging procedures, cardiology, sleep medicine, specialty pharmaceuticals, medical oncology, radiation therapy and
musculoskeletal services. These programs, based on widely accepted and evidence-based clinical guidelines, promote the most
appropriate use of clinical services to improve the quality of overall healthcare delivered to our members and members of other
health plans that are covered under AIM’s programs. To provide additional impact to its clinical appropriateness program, AIM has
also implemented a provider assessment program, OptiNet®, which promotes more informed selection of diagnostic imaging and
testing facilities by providing cost and facility information to physician offices at the point that a procedure is ordered. We have
also leveraged AIM’s provider network assessment information to proactively engage and educate our members about imaging
providers and sleep testing choices based on site capabilities and cost differences. This program is another example of how we
facilitate improvements in the quality of care provided to our members and promote cost-effective medical care.
Pricing and Underwriting of Our Products
We price our products based on our assessment of current healthcare claim costs and emerging healthcare cost trends,
combined with charges for administrative expenses, risk and profit, including charges for the ACA taxes and fees, where applicable.
We continually review our product designs and pricing guidelines on a national and regional basis so that our products remain
competitive and consistent with our profitability goals and strategies.
In applying our pricing to each employer group and customer, we maintain consistent, competitive, disciplined underwriting
standards. We employ our proprietary accumulated actuarial and financial data in determining underwriting and pricing parameters
for both our fully-insured and self-funded businesses.
In most circumstances, our pricing and underwriting decisions follow a prospective rating process in which a fixed premium is
determined at the beginning of the contract period. For fully-insured business, any deviation, favorable or unfavorable, from the
medical costs assumed in determining the premium is our responsibility. Some of our larger groups employ retrospective rating
reviews, where positive experience is partially refunded to the group, and negative experience is charged against a rate stabilization
fund established from the group’s favorable experience or charged against future favorable experience.
BCBSA Licenses
We are a party to license agreements with the BCBSA that entitle us to the exclusive, and in certain areas, non-exclusive use of
the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks in assigned geographic territories. BCBSA is a national trade association of Blue
Cross and Blue Shield licensees, the primary function of which is to promote and preserve the integrity of the BCBS names and
marks, as well as provide certain coordination among the member companies. Each BCBSA licensee is an independent legal
organization and is not responsible for obligations of other BCBSA member organizations. We have no right to market products and
services using the BCBS names and marks outside of the states in which we are licensed to sell BCBS products. We are required to
pay an annual license fee to the BCBSA based on enrollment and also to comply with various operational, governance and financial
standards set forth in the licenses.
-16-
We believe that we and our licensed affiliates are currently in compliance with these standards. The standards under the license
agreements may be modified in certain instances by the BCBSA. See Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form
10-K for additional details of our licensing requirements and the impact if we were not to comply with these license agreements.
Regulation 
General
Our operations are subject to comprehensive and detailed state, federal and international regulation throughout the jurisdictions
in which we do business. As discussed below, the regulatory aspects of the U.S. healthcare system have been and will continue to
be significantly affected by the ACA and subsequent legislative and regulatory changes at the federal and state levels. Supervisory
agencies, including state health, insurance and corporation departments, have broad authority to:
•grant, suspend and revoke licenses to transact business;
•regulate our products and services in great detail;
•regulate, limit, or suspend our ability to market products, including the exclusion of our plans from participating on public
exchanges;
•retroactively adjust premium rates;
•monitor our solvency and reserve adequacy;
•scrutinize our investment activities on the basis of quality, diversification and other quantitative criteria; and
•impose monetary and criminal sanctions for non-compliance with regulatory requirements.
To carry out these tasks, these regulators periodically examine our operations and accounts.
Regulation of Insurance Company and HMO Business Activity
The governments of the states in which we conduct business, as well as the federal government, have adopted laws and
regulations that govern our business activities in various ways. Further, the ACA has resulted in increased federal regulation that
significantly impacts our business. These laws and regulations, which vary significantly from state to state, restrict how we conduct
our businesses and result in additional burdens and costs to us. These federal and state laws and regulations are subject to
amendments and changing interpretations in each jurisdiction.
 States generally require health insurers and HMOs to obtain a certificate of authority prior to commencing operations. If we
were to establish a health insurance company or an HMO in any jurisdiction, we generally would have to obtain such a certificate
or authorization to expand the operations permitted under an existing certificate if we already operate in the state. The time
necessary to obtain such a certificate varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Each health insurer and HMO must file periodic
financial and operating reports with the states in which it does business. In addition, health insurers and HMOs are subject to state
examination and periodic license renewal. The health benefits business also may be adversely impacted by court and regulatory
decisions that expand or invalidate the interpretations of existing statutes and regulations. It is uncertain whether we can recoup,
through higher premiums or other measures, the increased costs of mandated benefits or other increased costs caused by potential
legislation, regulation or court rulings. See Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Ongoing Requirements and Changes Stemming from the ACA
The ACA significantly changed health insurance markets by prohibiting lifetime limits, certain annual limits, member cost-
sharing on specified preventive benefits and pre-existing condition exclusions. Further, the ACA implemented certain requirements
for insurers, including changes to Medicare Advantage payments and the minimum medical loss ratio, or MLR, provision that
requires insurers to pay rebates to customers when insurers do not meet or exceed the specified MLR thresholds. In addition, the
ACA also required a number of other changes with significant effects on both federal and state health insurance markets, including
strict rules on how health insurance is rated, what benefits must be offered, the assessment of new taxes and fees (including annual
fees on health insurance companies), the creation of public exchanges for
-17-
Individuals and Small Groups, the availability of premium and cost-sharing subsidies for qualified individuals, and expansions in
eligibility for Medicaid. Changes to our business environment are likely to continue for the next several years as elected officials at
the national and state levels continue to propose and enact significant modifications to existing laws and regulations, including the
reduction of the individual mandate penalty to zero effective January 1, 2019, elimination of funding for cost-sharing subsidies
made available for qualified individuals, and changes to taxes and fees. Also, the legal challenges regarding the ACA, including the
ultimate outcome of the 2018 Texas District Court ACA Decision, could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows,
financial condition and results of operations.
In general, the Individual market risk pool that includes public exchange markets has become less healthy since its inception in
2014. The reduction of the individual mandate penalty to zero, effective in 2019, is also expected to result in further deterioration of
the overall Individual market risk pool. In June 2018, the U.S. Department of Labor, or DOL, released a final rule on association
health plans, and in August 2018, the DOL, the U.S. Department of Treasury, or TRE, and the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services, or HHS, issued a final rule on short-term limited duration insurance. In October 2018, the DOL, TRE and HHS
issued a proposed rule on health reimbursement accounts, and in January 2019, HHS issued a proposed rule for the Notice of
Benefit and Payment Parameters for 2020. Additionally, in October 2018 HHS issued guidance on waivers pursuant to Section
1332 of the ACA, which aims to allow states to create waiver programs allowing premium subsidies to be used for non-ACA
products. These regulations and guidance may provide additional opportunities for individuals, sole proprietors and small
employers to access more affordable health coverage options, but may also result in additional adverse risk selection. Based on our
experience in public exchange markets to date, we have made adjustments to our premium rates and strategically reduced our
participation footprint, and we will continue to evaluate the performance of our public exchange plans going forward. In addition,
insurers have faced uncertainties related to federal government funding for various ACA programs. These factors may have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations if premiums are not adequate or do not appropriately reflect the acuity of these
individuals. Any variation from our expectations regarding acuity, enrollment levels, adverse selection, or other assumptions
utilized in setting premium rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash
flows.
Further, implementation of the ACA brings with it significant oversight responsibilities by health insurers that may result in
increased governmental audits, increased assertions of False Claims Act violations, and an increased risk of other litigation.
Federal regulatory agencies continue to modify regulations and guidance related to the ACA and markets more broadly. Some
of the more significant ACA rules are described below:
•The minimum MLR thresholds by line of business for the Commercial market, as defined by HHS, are as follows:
Line of Business  %
Large Group  85
Small Group  80
Individual  80
New York state regulations require us to meet a more restrictive MLR threshold of 82% for both Small Group and
Individual lines of business. The minimum MLR thresholds disclosed above are based on definitions of an MLR
calculation provided by HHS, or specific states, as applicable, and differ from our calculation of “benefit expense ratio”
based on premium revenue and benefit expense as reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles, or GAAP. Furthermore, the definitions of the lines of business differ under the various federal and state
regulations and may not correspond to our lines of business. Definitions under the MLR regulation also impact insurers
differently depending upon their organizational structure or tax status, which could result in a competitive advantage to
some insurance providers that may not be available to us, resulting in an uneven playing field in the industry.
The ACA also imposed a separate minimum MLR threshold of 85% for Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D
prescription drug plans or Medicare Part D plans. Medicare Advantage or Medicare Part D plans that do not meet this
threshold will have to pay a minimum MLR rebate. If a plan’s MLR is below 85% for three consecutive years beginning
with 2014, enrollment will be restricted. A Medicare Advantage or Medicare Part D plan contract will be terminated if the
plan’s MLR is below 85% for five consecutive years.
-18-
HHS also finalized a rule in April 2016 that requires state Medicaid programs to set managed care capitation rates such
that a minimum 85% MLR is projected to be achieved. However, this rule does not require states to collect remittances if
the minimum MLR is not achieved.
Approximately 58.7% and 22.0% of our premium revenue and medical membership, respectively, were subject to the
minimum MLR regulations as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018. Approximately 61.3% and 21.5% of our
premium revenue and medical membership, respectively, were subject to the minimum MLR regulations as of and for the
year ended December 31, 2017.
•The ACA created an incentive payment program for Medicare Advantage plans. CMS developed the Medicare Advantage
Star Ratings System, which awards between 1.0 and 5.0 stars to Medicare Advantage plans based on performance in
several categories, including quality of care and customer service. The star ratings are used by CMS to award quality-
based bonus payments to plans that receive a rating of 4.0 or higher. The methodology and measures included in the star
ratings system can be modified by CMS annually. As of December 31, 2018, all of our Medicare Advantage plans have
received a rating of 3.0 or higher.
•Regulations require premium rate increases to be reviewed for Small Group and Individual products above specified
thresholds, 10% for 2018 and 15% for 2019, and may be adjusted from time to time. The regulations provide for state
insurance regulators to conduct the reviews, except for cases where a state does not have an “effective” rate review
program or in federal enforcement states, in which cases HHS will conduct the reviews for any rate increase.
•Prior to the implementation of the ACA, health insurers were permitted to use differential pricing, commonly referred to as
“rating bands,” based on factors such as health status, gender and age. The ACA precludes health insurers from using
health status and gender in the determination of the insurance premium. In addition, rating bands for age cannot vary by
more than 3 to 1 and rating bands for tobacco use cannot vary by more than 1.5 to 1. The ongoing use of the 3 to 1 rating
bands may have a significant impact on the majority of Individual and Small Group customers and could lead to adverse
selection in the market as well as increased variability in projecting future premiums for those customer markets.
•In 2014 significant new taxes and fees became effective for health insurers, some of which may or may not be passed
through to customers. The most significant of the taxes and fees is the annual Health Insurance Provider Fee, or HIP Fee,
on health insurers that write certain types of health insurance on U.S. risks. The annual HIP Fee is allocated to health
insurers based on the ratio of the amount of an insurer’s net premium revenues written during the preceding calendar year
to the amount of health insurance premium for all U.S. health risk for those certain lines of business written during the
preceding calendar year. We record our estimated liability for the HIP Fee in full at the beginning of the year with a
corresponding deferred asset that is amortized on a straight-line basis to selling, general and administrative expense. The
final calculation and payment of the annual HIP Fee is due by September 30th of each fee year. The HIP Fee is non-
deductible for federal income tax purposes. We price our affected products to cover the increased selling, general and
administrative and income tax expenses associated with the HIP Fee. The total amount due from allocations to health
insurers was $11.3 billion for 2016, was suspended for 2017, had resumed and increased to $14.3 billion for 2018 and is
suspended for 2019. The HIP Fee is scheduled to go back into effect for 2020.
•Medicare Advantage reimbursement rates will not increase as much as they would otherwise due to the payment formula
promulgated by the ACA that continues to impact reimbursements. We also expect further and ongoing regulatory
guidance on a number of issues related to Medicare, including evolving methodology for ratings and quality bonus
payments. CMS is also proposing changes to its program that audits data submitted under the risk adjustment programs in
a way that could increase financial recoveries from plans.
Pharmacy Benefit Manager Regulation
A number of proposals are being considered at the federal and state levels that would increase regulation of pharmacy benefit
managers. Such proposals under consideration include (1) proposed federal regulation of drug rebates that would narrow the types
of rebates that are allowed in public programs and require rebates to be reflected at the point-of-sale, (2) proposed federal
regulation that would tie Medicare reimbursement for physician-administered drugs to prices paid in other countries, and (3)
proposed reforms to the Medicare drug benefit, such as reducing the number of drugs that must be covered
-19-
in protected classes and beneficiary cost-sharing changes that aim to lower out-of-pocket costs. These reforms have the potential to
have broad impacts on our pharmacy benefit business.
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, includes a number of financial
reforms and regulations that affect our business and financial reporting, including margin requirements and reporting and clearing
transactions for our investments in derivative instruments. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act creates a Federal Insurance Office with
limited powers that include information-gathering and subpoena authority for certain parts of our business, including life insurance,
but excluding health insurance. There remains uncertainty surrounding the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act
will ultimately be implemented by the various regulatory agencies, and the full extent of the impact of the requirements on our
operations is unclear, especially in light of the Trump administration’s January 2017 executive order calling for a full review of the
Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
HIPAA and Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act
The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, imposes obligations for issuers of health
insurance coverage and health benefit plan sponsors. This law requires guaranteed renewability of healthcare coverage for most
group health plans and certain individuals. Also, the law limited exclusions based on preexisting medical conditions.
The administrative simplification provisions of HIPAA imposed a number of requirements on covered entities (including
insurers, HMOs, group health plans, providers and clearinghouses). These requirements include uniform standards of common
electronic healthcare transactions; privacy and security regulations; and unique identifier rules for employers, health plans and
providers. Additional federal privacy and security requirements, including breach notification, improved enforcement, and
additional limitations on use and disclosure of protected health information were passed through the Health Information
Technology for Economic and Clinical Health, or HITECH, Act provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of
2009 and corresponding implementing regulations. States are also passing privacy and security requirements, such as the California
Consumer Privacy Act, which may limit our use and disclosure of member data and impose additional breach notification
requirements.
The federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act generally places restrictions on the disclosure of non-public information to non-affiliated
third parties, and requires financial institutions, including insurers, to provide customers with notice regarding how their non-public
personal information is used, including an opportunity to “opt out” of certain disclosures. State departments of insurance and
certain federal agencies adopted implementing regulations as required by federal law. In addition, a number of states have adopted
data security laws and/or regulations governing data security and/or requiring security breach notification, which may apply to us in
certain circumstances.
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
The provision of services to certain employee welfare benefit plans is subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended, or ERISA, a complex set of laws and regulations subject to interpretation and enforcement by the Internal
Revenue Service and the DOL. ERISA regulates certain aspects of the relationships between us, the employers that maintain
employee welfare benefit plans subject to ERISA and participants in such plans. Some of our administrative services and other
activities may also be subject to regulation under ERISA. In addition, certain states require licensure or registration of companies
providing third-party claims administration services for benefit plans. We provide a variety of products and services to employee
welfare benefit plans that are covered by ERISA. Plans subject to ERISA can also be subject to state laws and the question of
whether and to what extent ERISA preempts a state law has been, and will continue to be, interpreted by many courts.
HMO and Insurance Holding Company Laws, including Risk-Based Capital Requirements
We are regulated as an insurance holding company and are subject to the insurance holding company acts of the states in which
our insurance company and HMO subsidiaries are domiciled. These acts contain certain reporting requirements as well as
restrictions on transactions between an insurer or HMO and its affiliates. These holding company laws and regulations generally
require insurance companies and HMOs within an insurance holding company system to register with the insurance
-20-
department of each state where they are domiciled and to file with those states’ insurance departments certain reports describing
capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions, enterprise risks, corporate governance and
general business operations. In addition, various notice and reporting requirements generally apply to transactions between
insurance companies and HMOs and their affiliates within an insurance holding company system, depending on the size and nature
of the transactions. Some insurance holding company laws and regulations require prior regulatory approval or, in certain
circumstances, prior notice of certain material intercompany transfers of assets as well as certain transactions between insurance
companies, HMOs, their parent holding companies and affiliates. Among other provisions, state insurance and HMO laws may
restrict the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends.
Additionally, the holding company acts of the states in which our subsidiaries are domiciled restrict the ability of any person to
obtain control of an insurance company or HMO without prior regulatory approval. Under those statutes, without such approval (or
an exemption), no person may acquire any voting security of an insurance holding company, which controls an insurance company
or HMO, or merge with such a holding company, if as a result of such transaction such person would “control” the insurance
holding company. “Control” is generally defined as the direct or indirect power to direct or cause the direction of the management
and policies of a person and is presumed to exist if a person directly or indirectly owns or controls 10% or more of the voting
securities of another person. Dispositions of control generally are also regulated under the state holding company acts.
The states of domicile of our regulated subsidiaries have statutory risk-based capital, or RBC, requirements for health and
other insurance companies and HMOs based on the Risk-Based Capital (RBC) For Health Organizations Model Act, or RBC
Model Act. These RBC requirements are intended to assess the capital adequacy of life and health insurers and HMOs, taking into
account the risk characteristics of a company’s investments and products. In general, under these laws, an insurance company or
HMO must submit a report of its RBC level to the insurance department or insurance commissioner of its state of domicile for each
calendar year. The law requires increasing degrees of regulatory oversight and intervention as a company’s RBC declines. As of
December 31, 2018, the RBC levels of our insurance and HMO subsidiaries exceeded all RBC requirements.
Guaranty Fund Assessments
Under insolvency or guaranty association laws in most states, insurance companies can be assessed for amounts paid by
guaranty funds for policyholder losses incurred when an insurance company becomes insolvent. Most state insolvency or guaranty
association laws currently provide for assessments based upon the amount of premiums received on insurance underwritten within
such state (with a minimum amount payable even if no premium is received). Under many of these guaranty association laws,
assessments against insurance companies that issue policies of accident or sickness insurance are made retrospectively. Some states
permit insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets or through future policyholder surcharges.
The amount and timing of any future assessments cannot be predicted with certainty; however, future assessments are likely to
occur.
Employees
At December 31, 2018, we had approximately 63,900 full-time employees. Our employees are an important asset, and we seek
to develop them to their full potential. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good.
Available Information
We are a large accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange
Act) and are required, pursuant to Item 101 of Regulation S-K, to provide certain information regarding our website and the
availability of certain documents filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Our Internet
website is www.antheminc.com. We have included our Internet website address throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K as a
textual reference only. The information contained on, or accessible through, our Internet website is not incorporated into this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available, free of charge, by mail or through our Internet website, our Annual Report on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material
with or furnish it to the SEC. We also include on our Internet website our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Standards of
Ethical Business Conduct and the charter of each standing committee of our Board
-21-
of Directors. In addition, we intend to disclose on our Internet website any amendments to, or waivers from, our Standards of
Ethical Business Conduct that are required to be publicly disclosed pursuant to rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange,
or NYSE. Anthem, Inc. is an Indiana corporation incorporated on July 17, 2001.
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.
The following is a description of significant factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained
in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by management from time to
time. Such factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and you should
carefully consider them and not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. It is not possible to predict or identify all
such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all our potential risks or
uncertainties. Because of these and other factors, past performance should not be considered an indication of future performance.
If we fail to appropriately predict, price for and manage healthcare costs, the profitability of our products could decline,
which could materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.
Our profitability depends in large part on accurately predicting healthcare costs and on our ability to manage future healthcare
costs through medical management, product design, negotiation of favorable provider contracts and underwriting criteria.
Government-imposed limitations on Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement have also caused the private sector to bear a greater
share of increasing healthcare costs. Changes in healthcare practices, demographic characteristics including the aging population,
inflation, new technologies and therapies, increases in the cost and number of prescription drugs, clusters of high cost cases,
changes in the regulatory environment and numerous other factors affecting the cost of healthcare may adversely affect our ability
to predict and manage healthcare costs, as well as our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Future
modifications to, or enactment of, laws and regulations that impact our product pricing and required product benefits may also
impact our profitability in future periods.
Relatively small differences between predicted and actual healthcare costs as a percentage of premium revenues can result in
significant changes in our results of operations. In general, healthcare benefit costs in excess of our cost projections reflected in our
fully insured product pricing cannot be recovered in the current premium period through higher premiums. Although federal and
state premium and risk adjustment mechanisms could help offset healthcare benefit costs in excess of our projections if our
assumptions (including assumptions for government premium and risk adjustment payments) utilized in setting our premium rates
are significantly different than actual results, our income statement and financial condition could still be adversely affected.
In addition to the challenge of managing healthcare costs, we face pressure to contain premium rates. Our customers may
renegotiate their contracts to seek to contain their costs or may move to a competitor to obtain more favorable premiums. Further,
federal and state regulatory agencies may restrict our ability to implement changes in premium rates. For example, we must submit
data on all proposed rate increases to HHS for monitoring purposes on many of our products. In addition, the ACA includes an
annual rate review requirement to prohibit unreasonable rate increases, and our plans may be excluded from participating in the
public exchanges if they are deemed to have a history of “unreasonable” rate increases. Fiscal concerns regarding the continued
viability of programs such as Medicare and Medicaid may cause decreasing reimbursement rates, including retroactive decreases in
Medicaid reimbursement rates, delays in premium payments or reimbursement rate increases for government-sponsored programs
that are lower than the increase in cost of care trends. A limitation on our ability to increase or maintain our premium or
reimbursement levels or a significant loss of membership resulting from our need to increase or maintain premium or
reimbursement levels could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.
The reserves that we establish for health insurance policy benefits and other contractual rights and benefits are based upon
assumptions concerning a number of factors, including trends in healthcare costs, expenses, general economic conditions and other
factors. To the extent the actual claims experience is unfavorable as compared to our underlying assumptions, our incurred losses
would increase and future earnings could be adversely affected.
Our profitability is also dependent in part upon our ability to contract on favorable terms with hospitals, physicians, PBM
service providers and other healthcare providers. Physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers may elect not to
-22-
contract with us, and the failure to secure or maintain cost-effective healthcare provider contracts on competitive terms may result
in a loss of membership or higher medical costs, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, consolidation among
healthcare providers, ACO practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and
marketing leverage, and other organizational structures that physicians, hospitals and other care providers choose, as well as the
ability of larger employers to contract directly with providers, may change the way that these providers interact with us and may
change the competitive landscape. Such organizations or groups of physicians may compete directly with us, which may impact our
relationship with these providers or affect the way that we price our products and estimate our costs and may require us to incur
costs to change our operations, which could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.
Our inability to contract with providers, or if providers attempt to use their market position to negotiate more favorable
contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, or the inability of providers to provide adequate care, could adversely affect our
business. In addition, we do not have contracts with all providers that render services to our members and, as a result, may not have
a pre-established agreement about the amount of compensation those out-of-network providers will accept for the services they
render, which can result in significant litigation or arbitration proceedings, or provider attempts to obtain payment from our
members for the difference between the amount we have paid and the amount they have charged.
The ongoing changes to the ACA and related laws and regulations could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial
condition and results of operations.
The ongoing changes in federal and state laws and regulations stemming from the ACA, including the steps that have been
taken to amend, repeal and limit the scope and application of the ACA, continue to represent significant challenges to the U.S.
healthcare system. We are unable to predict how these events will ultimately be resolved and what the potential impact may be on
our business, including, but not limited to, our products, services, processes and technology, and on our relationships with current
and future customers and healthcare providers. The legal challenges regarding the ACA, including the 2018 Texas District Court
ACA Decision invalidating the ACA, which judgment has been stayed pending appeals, continue to contribute to this uncertainty,
which could significantly impact the market for our products, the regulations applicable to us and the fees and taxes payable by us.
In addition, the ACA imposes significant fees, assessments and taxes on us and other health insurers, health plans and other
industry participants, including the annual non-tax deductible HIP Fee. Further regulations and modifications to the ACA at the
federal or state level, including a judicial invalidation of the ACA, will likely have significant effects on our business and future
operations, some of which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.
In general, the risk pool for the Individual market, which includes public exchange markets, has become less healthy since its
inception in 2014. The reduction of the individual mandate penalty to zero, effective in 2019, is also expected to result in further
deterioration of the overall Individual market risk pool. Based on our experience in public exchange markets to date, we have made
adjustments to our premium rates and geographic participation, and we will continue to evaluate the performance of our public
exchange plans, the future viability of the public exchanges and availability of federal subsidies, and may make further adjustments
to our rates and participation going forward. In addition, insurers have faced uncertainties related to federal government funding for
various ACA programs. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations if premiums are not adequate
or do not appropriately reflect the acuity of these individuals. Any variation from our expectations regarding acuity, enrollment
levels, adverse selection, or other assumptions utilized in setting premium rates could have a material adverse effect on our results
of operations, financial position, and cash flows.
For additional information related to the ACA, see Part I, Item 1 “Business” and Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We are subject to significant government regulation, and changes in the regulation of our business by federal and state
regulators may adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.
In addition to the ACA and efforts to modify the ACA, we face state and federal regulation associated with many aspects of our
business, including, but not limited to, licensing, premiums, marketing activities, provider contracting, access and payment
standards, and corporate governance and financial reporting matters. In addition, our PBM is also subject to an increasing number
of licensure, registration and other laws and accreditation standards that impact the business practices of a pharmacy benefit
manager. We must identify, assess and respond to new laws and regulations, as well as comply with the
-23-
various existing laws and regulations applicable to our business. Changes in existing laws, rules and regulatory interpretation or
future laws, rules, regulatory interpretations or judgments could force us to change how we conduct our business, affect the
products we offer, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our costs, including operating, healthcare technology and
administrative costs, restrict our ability to obtain new product approvals and implement changes in premium rates and require
enhancements to our compliance infrastructure and internal controls environment.
Our insurance, managed healthcare and HMO subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by regulatory
authorities in each state in which they are licensed or authorized to do business, in addition to regulation by federal agencies. Future
regulatory action by state or federal authorities could have a material adverse effect on the profitability or marketability of our
health benefits or managed care products or on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, because of
our participation in government-sponsored programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, a number of our subsidiaries are also subject
to regulation by CMS and state Medicaid agencies, and to changes in government regulations or policy with respect to, among
other things, reimbursement levels, eligibility requirements, benefit coverage requirements and additional governmental
participation, which could also adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.
In addition, under insolvency or guaranty association laws in most states, insurance companies can be assessed for certain
obligations to policyholders and claimants of impaired or insolvent insurance companies. Some states have similar laws relating to
HMOs and other payers such as consumer operated and oriented plans (co-ops) established under the ACA. We may experience
assessments in the future if, for example, premiums established by other companies for their health insurance products, including
certain long-term care products, are inadequate to cover the cost of care. Any such assessment could expose us to the risk of paying
a portion of an impaired or insolvent insurance company’s claims through state guaranty associations. We are not currently able to
estimate our potential financial obligations, losses, or the availability of potential offsets associated with potential guaranty
association assessments; however, any significant increase in guaranty association assessments could have a material adverse effect
on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.
State legislatures will continue to focus on healthcare delivery and financing issues. State ballot initiatives can also be put to
voters that would substantially impair our operating environment. Most states are very focused on how to manage and reduce their
budgets and are exploring ways to mitigate cost increases. As such, some states have acted to reduce or limit increases to premium
payments. Others have enacted, or are contemplating, significant reform of their health insurance markets to include provisions
affecting both public programs and privately-financed health insurance arrangements. If enacted into law, these state proposals
could have a material adverse impact on our business, cash flows, operations or financial condition.
A number of states in which we offer Medicaid products have not opted for Medicaid expansion under the ACA, at least for the
present time. Where states allow certain programs to expire or have not opted for Medicaid expansion, we could experience
reduced Medicaid enrollment and reduced growth opportunities. If future modifications to laws and regulations significantly reduce
Medicaid enrollment, this will negatively impact our Medicaid business.
Additionally, from time to time, Congress has considered, and may consider in the future, various forms of managed care
reform legislation which, if adopted, could fundamentally alter the treatment of coverage decisions under ERISA. There have been
legislative attempts to limit ERISA’s preemptive effect on state laws and litigants’ ability to seek damages beyond the benefits
offered under their plans. If adopted, such limitations could increase our liability exposure, could permit greater state regulation of
our operations, and could expand the scope of damages, including punitive damages, litigants could be awarded. While we cannot
predict if any of these initiatives will ultimately become effective or, if enacted, what their terms will be, their enactment could
increase our costs, expose us to expanded liability or require us to revise the ways in which we conduct business.
-24-
We face competition in many of our markets, and if we fail to adequately adapt to changes in our industry and develop and
implement strategic growth opportunities, our ability to compete and grow may be adversely affected.
As a health benefits company, we operate in a highly competitive environment and in an industry that is subject to significant
changes from legislative reform, business consolidations, new strategic alliances, new market entrants, aggressive marketing
practices by other health benefits organizations, technological advancements and market pressures brought about by an informed
and organized customer base, particularly among large employers, which may increasingly have the ability to contract directly with
providers. In addition, the PBM industry is highly competitive, and our PBM business will be subject to competition from owned
drugstores, retail drugstore chains, supermarkets, discount retailers, membership clubs, internet companies and other mail-order and
long-term care pharmacies. These factors have produced and will likely continue to produce significant pressures on our
profitability.
In addition, as a result of changes to traditional health insurance over the past several years, the health insurance industry has
experienced a significant shift in membership to insurance products with lower margins. In order to profitably grow our business in
the future, we need to not only grow our profitable medical membership, but also continue to diversify our sources of revenue and
earnings, including through the increased sale of our specialty products, such as dental, vision and other supplemental products,
expansion of non-ACA medical products, expansion of our non-insurance assets and establishment of new cost of care solutions,
including innovations in PBM services. If we are unable to acquire or develop and successfully manage new opportunities that
further our strategic objectives and differentiate our products from our competitors, our ability to profitably grow our business
could be adversely affected.
We also will have to respond to pricing and other actions taken by existing competitors and potentially disruptive new entrants.
Due to the price transparency provided by public exchanges and new market entrants, we face competitive pressures from new and
existing competitors in the market for Individual health insurance. These risks may be enhanced if employers shift to defined
contribution healthcare benefits plans and make greater utilization of private insurance exchanges or encourage their employees to
purchase health insurance on the public exchanges. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully on
these exchanges or that we will be able to benefit from any opportunities presented by such exchanges. The elimination of the
individual mandate penalty in the ACA, effective January 1, 2019, may further disrupt the public exchange markets. If we are not
competitive on these exchanges or are unsuccessful in reducing our cost structure, our future growth and profitability may be
adversely impacted.
We are currently dependent on the non-exclusive services of independent agents and brokers in the marketing of our healthcare
products, particularly with respect to individuals, seniors and small employer group customers. We face intense competition for the
services and allegiance of these independent agents and brokers, who may also market the products of our competitors. Our
relationship with our brokers and independent agents could be adversely impacted by changes in our business practices to address
legislative changes, including potential reductions in commissions and consulting fees paid to agents and brokers. We cannot ensure
that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors for these services or that competitive pressures
faced by us will not materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.
A significant reduction in the enrollment in our health benefits programs, particularly in states where we have large
regional concentrations, could have an adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of
operations.
A significant reduction in the number of enrollees in our health benefits programs could adversely affect our business, cash
flows, financial condition and results of operations. Factors that could contribute to a reduction in enrollment include: reductions in
workforce by existing customers; a general economic upturn that results in fewer individuals being eligible for Medicaid programs;
a general economic downturn that results in business failures and high unemployment rates; employers no longer offering certain
healthcare coverage as an employee benefit or electing to offer coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis; participation on
public exchanges; federal and state regulatory changes, including the elimination of the individual mandate penalty in the ACA
effective January 1, 2019; failure to obtain new customers or retain existing customers; premium increases and benefit changes; our
exit from a specific market; negative publicity and news coverage; and failure to attain or maintain nationally recognized
accreditations.
-25-
The states in which we operate that have the largest concentrations of revenues include California, Florida, Georgia, Indiana,
New York, Ohio, Texas and Virginia. Due to this concentration of business in these states, we are exposed to potential losses
resulting from the risk of state-specific or regional economic downturns impacting these states. If any such negative economic
conditions do not improve, we may experience a reduction in existing and new business, which could have a material adverse effect
on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.
A cyber attack or other privacy or data security incident could result in an unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or
confidential information, cause a loss of data, disrupt a large amount of our operations, give rise to remediation or other
expenses, expose us to liability under federal and state laws, and subject us to litigation and investigations, which could have
an adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.
As part of our normal operations, we collect, process and retain certain sensitive and confidential information. We are subject
to various federal, state and international laws and rules regarding the use and disclosure of certain sensitive or confidential
information, including HIPAA, the HITECH Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and numerous state laws governing personal
information. Our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers, are regularly the target of, and may be
vulnerable to, cyber attacks, security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or
human errors or other threats.
We have been, and will likely continue to be, the target of attempted cyber attacks and other security threats. In February 2015,
we reported the discovery that certain of our information technology systems had been the target of an external cyber attack, as
more fully described under Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings – Cyber Attack
Regulatory Proceedings and Litigation,” of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. The attackers gained unauthorized access to certain of our information technology systems and
obtained personal information related to many individuals and employees. We have incurred expenses to investigate and remediate
this matter and expect to continue to incur expenses of this nature in the foreseeable future. Although the consolidated civil actions,
state court cases and investigation by the Office of Civil Rights related to this cyber attack have been settled and dismissed,
respectively, an ongoing investigation by a multi-state group of Attorneys General remains outstanding. We also may be subject to
additional litigation and governmental investigations which could divert the attention of management from the operation of our
business, result in reputational damage and have a material adverse impact on our business, cash flows, financial condition and
results of operations. While we have contingency plans and insurance coverage for potential liabilities of this nature, they may not
be sufficient to cover all claims and liabilities.
We cannot ensure that we will be able to identify, prevent or contain the effects of additional cyber attacks or other
cybersecurity risks in the future that bypass our security measures or disrupt our information technology systems or business. We
have security technologies, processes and procedures in place to protect against cybersecurity risks and security breaches. However,
hardware, software or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design, manufacturer defects or
other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. In addition, because the techniques used to obtain
unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and may not immediately produce signs of
intrusion, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques, timely discover or counter them or implement adequate preventative
measures. Viruses, worms or other malicious software programs may be used to attack our systems or otherwise exploit any
security vulnerabilities, and such security attacks may cause system disruptions or shutdowns, or may cause personal information
or proprietary or confidential information to be misappropriated or compromised. As a result, cybersecurity and the continued
development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data
and networks from attack, damage and unauthorized access remain a priority for us.
In addition, we use third-party technology, systems and services for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation,
encryption and authentication technology, employee email, content delivery to customers, back-office support, and other functions.
Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to reduce the impact of a security breach at a third-party
vendor, such measures cannot provide absolute security, and these third-party providers may also experience security breaches or
interruptions to their information technology hardware and software infrastructure and communications systems that could
adversely impact us.
Noncompliance with any privacy or security laws and regulations, or any security breach, cyber attack or cybersecurity breach,
and any incident involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure or use of, or access to,
-26-
sensitive or confidential member information, whether by us or by one of our third-party service providers, could require us to
expend significant resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures and to remediate any damage. In addition,
this could result in interruptions to our operations, damage our reputation and cause membership losses, and could also result in
regulatory enforcement actions, material fines and penalties, litigation or other actions that could have a material adverse effect on
our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.
There are various risks associated with participating in Medicaid and Medicare programs, including dependence upon
government funding and the timing of payments, compliance with government contracts and increased regulatory
oversight.
We contract with various federal and state agencies, including CMS, to provide managed healthcare services, such as Medicare
Advantage, Medicare Part D, Medicare Supplement, Medicaid, TANF, SPD, LTSS, CHIP, ACA-related Medicaid expansion
programs and various specialty programs. We also provide various administrative services for several other entities offering
medical and/or prescription drug plans to their Medicaid or Medicare eligible members through our affiliated companies, and we
offer employer group waiver plans which provide medical and/or prescription drug coverage to retirees. We are also participating in
MMPs in several states. These programs in our Government Business segment have been the subject of recent regulatory reform
initiatives, including the ACA. It is difficult to predict the future impact of the ACA or other regulatory reforms on our Government
Business segment due to the potential for further ACA modifications and other reforms. Regulatory reform initiatives or additional
changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows,
financial condition and results of operations.
Revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs are dependent, in whole or in part, upon annual funding from the federal
government and/or applicable state governments. The base premium rate paid by each state or federal agency differs depending
upon a combination of various factors such as defined upper payment limits, a member’s health status, age, gender, county or
region, benefit mix, member eligibility category and risk scores. Future Medicare and Medicaid rates may be affected by continued
government efforts to contain costs as well as federal and state budgetary constraints. If the federal government or any state in
which we operate were to decrease rates paid to us, pay us less than the amount necessary to keep pace with our cost trends or seek
an adjustment to previously negotiated rates, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition
and results of operations. Further, certain state contracts are subject to cancellation in the event of the unavailability of state funds.
In addition, various states’ MMPs are still subject to uncertainty surrounding payment rates and other requirements, which could
affect where we seek to participate in these programs. An unexpected reduction, inadequate government funding or significantly
delayed payments for these programs may adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.
In addition, Medicare and Medicaid are subject to various MLR rules. Other potential risks associated with the Medicare
Advantage and Medicare Part D plans include increased medical or pharmaceutical costs, overpayments identified as a result of
ongoing auditing and monitoring activities, potential uncollectability of receivables resulting from processing and/or verifying
enrollment, inadequacy of underwriting assumptions, inability to receive and process correct information (including inability due to
systems issues by the federal government, the applicable state government or us), uncollectability of premiums from members, and
limited enrollment periods. While we believe we have adequately reviewed our assumptions and estimates regarding these complex
and wide-ranging programs under Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D, including those related to collectability of receivables
and establishment of liabilities, actual results may be materially different than our assumptions and estimates and could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, there is the possibility that the
Medicare Advantage program could be significantly impacted by any future modification, repeal or replacement of the ACA.
Our revenue on Medicare policies is based on bids submitted to CMS in June the year before the contract year. Although we
base the commercial and Medicaid premiums we charge and our Medicare bids on our estimates of future medical costs over the
fixed contract period, many factors may cause actual costs to exceed those estimated and reflected in premiums or bids. These
factors may include medical cost inflation, increased use of services, increased cost of individual services, natural catastrophes or
other large-scale medical emergencies, epidemics, the introduction of new or costly drugs, treatments and technologies, new
treatment guidelines, new mandated benefits (such as the expansion of essential benefits coverage) or changes to other regulations
and insured population characteristics. Relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs or utilization rates
as a percentage of revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results.
-27-
Our contracts with CMS and state governmental agencies contain certain provisions regarding data submission, provider
network maintenance, quality measures, claims payment, encounter data, continuity of care, call center performance and other
requirements specific to federal and state program regulations. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to
fines, penalties, liquidated damages and retrospective adjustments in payments made to our health plans that could impact our
profitability. In addition, we could be required to file a corrective plan of action with additional penalties for noncompliance,
including a negative impact on future membership enrollment levels. Further, certain of our CMS and state Medicaid contracts are
subject to a competitive procurement process. If our existing contracts are not renewed, if we are not awarded new contracts as a
result of the competitive procurement process, or if we lose members under an existing contract as a result of a post-award
challenge, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.
Further, the Medicare Advantage Star Rating System utilized by CMS to evaluate Medicare Advantage Plans may have a
significant effect on our results of operations, as higher-rated plans tend to experience increased enrollment and plans with a star
rating of 4.0 or higher are eligible for quality-based bonus payments. Our star ratings may be negatively impacted if we fail to meet
the quality, performance and regulatory compliance criteria established by CMS. Furthermore, the star rating system is subject to
change annually by CMS, which may make it more difficult to achieve four stars or greater. If we do not maintain or continue to
improve our star ratings, fail to meet or exceed our competitors’ ratings, or if quality-based bonus payments are reduced or
eliminated, we may experience a negative impact on our revenues and the benefits that our plans can offer, which could materially
and adversely affect the marketability of our plans, our membership levels, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Similarly, a number of state Medicaid programs in which we participate have implemented performance standards, and if we fail to
meet or exceed those standards, we may not receive performance-based bonus payments or may incur performance-based penalties.
In addition to the contractual requirements affecting our participation in Medicaid and Medicare programs, we are also subject
to various federal and state healthcare laws and regulations, including those directed at preventing fraud, abuse and discrimination
in government-funded programs. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in investigations, litigation, fines,
restrictions on, or exclusions from, program participation, or the imposition of corporate integrity agreements or other agreements
with a federal or state governmental agency, any of which could adversely impact our business, cash flows, financial condition and
results of operations.
We are periodically subject to CMS audits of our Medicare Advantage Plans to validate the diagnostic data and patient claims,
as well as audits of our Medicare Part D plans by the Medicare Part D Recovery Audit Contractor, or RAC. CMS has recently
proposed changing these audits in a way that could increase financial recoveries from health plans. These audits could result in
significant adjustments in payments made to our health plans. In addition to these federal programs, a number of states have
implemented Medicaid RAC programs which were authorized by the ACA. State RAC programs could increase the number of
audits and any subsequent recoupment by the federal and state governments, which could adversely affect our financial condition
and results of operations. If we fail to report and correct errors discovered through our own auditing procedures or during a CMS or
RAC audit, or otherwise fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to fines, civil penalties or other
sanctions which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to participate in these programs, and on our financial condition,
cash flows and results of operations.
Our Medicare and Medicaid contracts are also subject to minimum MLR audits. If a Medicare Advantage, MMP or Medicare
Part D contract pays minimum MLR rebates for three consecutive years, it will become ineligible to participate in open enrollment.
If a Medicare Advantage or Medicare Part D contract pays such rebates for five consecutive years, it will be terminated by CMS.
In addition, there are an increasing number of investigations regarding compliance with various provisions of the ACA. These
investigations are being conducted by CMS and other federal authorities as well as state regulators. As a result, we could be subject
to multiple investigations of the same issue. These investigations, and any possible enforcement actions, could result in penalties
and the imposition of corrective action plans and/or changes to industry practices, which could adversely affect our ability to
market our products.
-28-
A change in our healthcare product mix may impact our profitability.
Our healthcare products that involve greater potential risk generally tend to be more profitable than administrative services
products and those healthcare products where the employer groups assume the underwriting risks. Individuals and small employer
groups are more likely to purchase our higher-risk healthcare products because such purchasers are generally unable or unwilling to
bear greater liability for healthcare expenditures. Typically, government-sponsored programs also involve our higher-risk healthcare
products. A shift of enrollees from more profitable products to less profitable products could have a material adverse effect on our
cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.
We face risks related to litigation.
We are, or may in the future, be a party to a variety of legal actions that may affect our business, such as employment and
employment discrimination-related suits, administrative charges before government agencies, employee benefit claims, breach of
contract actions, tort claims and intellectual property-related litigation. In addition, because of the nature of our business, we are
subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations, including the design, administration and offering of our
products and services. These could include claims relating to the denial or limitation of healthcare benefits; development or
application of medical policies and coverage and clinical guidelines; medical malpractice actions; product liability claims;
allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; provider disputes over reimbursement; provider tiering programs;
narrow networks; termination of provider contracts; the recovery of overpayments from providers; self-funded business; disputes
over co-payment calculations; reimbursement of out-of-network claims; the failure to disclose certain business practices; the failure
to comply with various state or federal laws, including but not limited to, ERISA and the Mental Health Parity Act; and customer
audits and contract performance, including government contracts. These actions or proceedings could have a material adverse effect
on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.
In addition, we are also involved in, or may in the future be party to, pending or threatened litigation of the character incidental
to the business transacted or arising out of our operations, including, but not limited to, breaches of security and violations of
privacy requirements, shareholder actions, compliance with federal and state laws and regulations (including qui tam or
“whistleblower” actions), or sales and acquisitions of businesses or assets (including as a result of the terminated Cigna Merger
Agreement, or as more fully described under Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings -
Cigna Corporation Merger Litigation,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K). From time to time, we are involved as a party in various governmental investigations, audits, reviews and
administrative proceedings, including challenges to the award of government contracts by disappointed bidders. These
investigations, audits and reviews include routine and special investigations by various state insurance departments, various federal
regulators including CMS and the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG), state
attorneys general, the Department of Justice (DOJ), and various offices of the U.S. Attorney General. Following an investigation,
we may be subject to civil or criminal fines, penalties and other sanctions if we are determined to be in violation of applicable laws
or regulations. Liabilities that may result from these actions could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of
operations and financial condition.
Recent court decisions and legislative activity may increase our exposure for any of these types of claims. In some cases,
substantial non-economic (including injunctive relief), treble or punitive damages may be sought. Although we maintain insurance
coverage for some of these potential liabilities, some liabilities and damages may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute
coverage or the amount of insurance may not be enough to cover the damages awarded. In addition, insurance coverage for all or
certain forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. Any adverse judgment against us
resulting in such damage awards could result in negative publicity and have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of
operations and financial condition.
Further, litigation brought against the federal and some state governments over the ACA, including the 2018 Texas District
Court ACA Decision, could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations
as changes to, or the invalidation of, the ACA resulting from such litigation may be unfavorable to our business or may create
uncertainty over the applicability and enforceability of portions of the law and related regulations, which impacts our strategy and
could negatively impact our future growth opportunities.
-29-
Cigna’s pursuit of litigation in connection with the Cigna Merger Agreement, together with our own litigation against
Cigna, could cause us to incur substantial costs, may present material distractions and, if decided adverse to Anthem, could
negatively impact our financial condition.
As described in Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings - Cigna Corporation
Merger Litigation,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form
10-K, in February 2017, Cigna commenced litigation against us in the Delaware Court of Chancery, or the Delaware Court, for a
declaratory judgment that its purported termination of the Cigna Merger Agreement was lawful and seeking damages against us.
We promptly filed our own litigation against Cigna seeking to compel Cigna’s specific performance of the Cigna Merger
Agreement and damages against Cigna. In May 2017, after the Delaware Court denied our motion to enjoin Cigna from terminating
the Cigna Merger Agreement, we delivered to Cigna a notice terminating the Cigna Merger Agreement. The litigation in Delaware
continues. These lawsuits could result in substantial costs to us, including litigation costs and potential settlement and judgment
costs. Further, due to the potential significance of the allegations and damages claimed by Cigna, we expect that our officers will
continue to spend substantial time focused on the litigation. Our defense against Cigna’s claims, the pursuit of our claims or the
settlement, or failure to reach a settlement, for any claims may result in negative media attention, and may adversely affect our
business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
We are dependent on the success of our relationships with third parties for various services and functions, including PBM
services.
We contract with various third parties to perform certain functions and services and provide us with certain information
technology systems. Certain of these third parties provide us with significant portions of our business infrastructure and operating
requirements, and we could become overly dependent on key vendors, which could cause us to lose core competencies. A
termination of our agreements with, or disruption in the performance of, one or more of these service providers could result in
service disruptions or unavailability, reduced service quality and effectiveness, increased or duplicative costs or an inability to meet
our obligations to our customers. In addition, we may also have to seek alternative service providers, which may be unavailable or
only available on less favorable contract terms. Any of these outcomes could adversely affect our business, reputation, cash flows,
financial condition and operating results.
In particular, we are a party to agreements with each of Express Scripts and CVS Health for the provision of certain PBM
services to our plans. In January 2019, we provided notice to Express Scripts terminating the ESI PBM Agreement effective March
1, 2019, with the twelve-month transition period provided for in the ESI Agreement to migrate the services beginning on March 2,
2019. The litigation between us and Express Scripts regarding the ESI PBM Agreement continues, as more fully described under
Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings - Express Scripts, Inc. Pharmacy Benefit
Management Litigation,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.
Beginning March 2, 2019, CVS Health may begin providing certain PBM services to IngenioRx pursuant to the CVS PBM
Agreement. In connection with the transition of PBM services to CVS Health, if either Express Scripts or CVS Health fails to
provide adequate transition and PBM services as contractually required, we may not be able to meet the full demands of our
customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations. For additional
information on the agreement with CVS Health, see “Business - General,” in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
There are various risks associated with providing healthcare services.
The direct provision of healthcare services by certain of our subsidiaries involves risks of additional litigation arising from
medical malpractice actions based on our treatment decisions or brought against us or our physician associates for alleged
malpractice or professional liability claims arising out of the delivery of healthcare and related services. In addition, liability may
arise from maintaining healthcare premises that serve the public. If we fail to maintain adequate insurance coverage for these
liabilities, or if such insurance is not available, the resulting costs could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial
condition and results of operations.
-30-
Additionally, many states in which certain of our subsidiaries operate limit the practice of medicine to licensed individuals or
professional organizations comprised of licensed individuals. Business corporations generally may not exercise control over the
medical decisions of physicians and we are not licensed to practice medicine. Rules and regulations relating to the practice of
medicine, fee-splitting between physicians and referral sources, and similar issues vary from state to state. Further, certain federal
and state laws, including those covering our Medicare and Medicaid plans, prohibit the offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of
any form of remuneration to induce, or in return for, the referral of patient care opportunities, including, but not limited to,
Medicare patients, and also generally prohibit physicians from making referrals to any entity providing certain designated health
services if the referring physician or related person has an ownership or financial interest in the entity. Any enforcement actions by
governmental officials alleging non-compliance with these rules and regulations could adversely affect our business, cash flows,
financial condition and results of operations.
Our PBM business and related operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that are in addition to those we
face in our core healthcare business.
Notwithstanding our arrangements with Express Scripts and CVS Health, we remain responsible to regulators and our
customers for the delivery of those PBM services that we contract to provide. Our PBM business is subject to the risks inherent in
the dispensing, packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other healthcare products, including claims related to purported
dispensing and other operational errors. Any failure by us or one of our PBM services suppliers to adhere to the laws and
regulations applicable to the dispensing of pharmaceuticals could subject our PBM business to civil and criminal penalties.
Our PBM business is subject to federal and state laws and regulations that govern its relationships with pharmaceutical
manufacturers, physicians, pharmacies and customers, including without limitation, federal and state anti-kickback laws, consumer
protection laws, ERISA, HIPAA and laws related to the operation of internet and mail-service pharmacies, as well as an increasing
number of licensure, registration and other laws and accreditation standards that impact the business practices of a PBM. In
addition, the practice of pharmacy is subject to federal and state laws and regulation, including those of state boards of pharmacy,
individual state-controlled substance authorities, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency and the FDA, and we and our third-party
vendors are subject to registration requirements and state and federal laws concerning labeling, packaging, advertising, handling
and adulteration of prescription drugs and dispensing of controlled substances. Noncompliance with applicable laws and
regulations by us or our third-party vendors could have material adverse effects on our business, results of operations, financial
condition, liquidity and reputation and could expose us to civil and criminal penalties.
Our PBM business also would be adversely affected if we are unable to contract on favorable terms with pharmaceutical
manufacturers, and we could suffer exposure to liabilities and reputational harm in connection with purported errors by mail order
or retail pharmacy businesses.
As a holding company, we are dependent on dividends from our subsidiaries. These dividends are necessary to pay our
outstanding indebtedness. Our regulated subsidiaries are subject to state regulations, including restrictions on the payment
of dividends, maintenance of minimum levels of capital and restrictions on investment portfolios.
We are a holding company whose assets include the outstanding shares of common stock (or other ownership interest) of our
subsidiaries including our intermediate holding companies and regulated insurance and HMO subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are
separate legal entities. As a holding company, we depend on dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our
subsidiaries. Furthermore, our subsidiaries are not obligated to make funds available to us, and creditors of our subsidiaries will
have a superior claim to certain of our subsidiaries’ assets. Among other restrictions, state insurance and HMO laws may restrict the
ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. In some states, we have made special undertakings that may limit the ability
of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. In addition, our subsidiaries’ ability to make any payments to us will also depend on
their earnings, the terms of their indebtedness, business and tax considerations and other legal restrictions. Our ability to repurchase
shares or pay dividends in the future to our shareholders and meet our obligations, including paying operating expenses and debt
service on our outstanding and future indebtedness, will depend upon the receipt of dividends from our subsidiaries. An inability of
our subsidiaries to pay dividends in the future in an amount sufficient for us to meet our financial obligations may materially
adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.
-31-
Most of our regulated subsidiaries are subject to RBC standards imposed by their states of domicile. These laws are based on
the RBC Model Act adopted by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, and require our regulated
subsidiaries to report their results of risk-based capital calculations to the departments of insurance and the NAIC. Failure to
maintain the minimum RBC standards could subject our regulated subsidiaries to corrective action, including state supervision or
liquidation. Changes to the existing RBC standards or the adoption of an RBC requirement at the holding company level, which is
currently being considered by the NAIC, could further restrict our or our regulated subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and
adversely affect our business. In addition, as discussed in more detail below, we are a party to license agreements with the BCBSA
which contain certain requirements and restrictions regarding our operations, including minimum capital and liquidity
requirements, which could restrict the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends.
Our regulated subsidiaries are subject to state laws and regulations that require diversification of their investment portfolios
and limit the amount of investments in certain riskier investment categories, such as below-investment-grade fixed maturity
securities, mortgage loans, real estate and equity investments, which could generate higher returns on their investments. Failure to
comply with these laws and regulations might cause investments exceeding regulatory limitations to be treated as non-admitted
assets for purposes of measuring statutory surplus and risk-based capital, and, in some instances, require the sale of those
investments.
We have substantial indebtedness outstanding and may incur additional indebtedness in the future in connection with
acquisitions or otherwise. Such indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to pursue desirable business opportunities
and to react to changes in the economy or our industry, and exposes us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate
indebtedness.
Our debt service obligations require us to use a portion of our cash flow to pay interest and principal on debt instead of for
other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to service our
debt obligations, we may be forced to seek extraordinary dividends from our subsidiaries, sell assets, seek additional equity or debt
capital or restructure our debt. However, these measures might be unsuccessful or inadequate to meet scheduled debt service
obligations, or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms.
We may also incur future debt obligations, in connection with acquisitions or otherwise, that might subject us to restrictive
covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. Our breach or failure to comply with any of these covenants
could result in a default under our credit facilities or other indebtedness. If we default under our credit agreement, the lenders could
cease to make further extensions of credit or cause all of our outstanding debt obligations under our credit agreement to become
immediately due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If the indebtedness under our notes or our credit
agreement or our other indebtedness is accelerated, we may be unable to repay or finance the amounts due, on commercially
reasonable terms, or at all.
Further, a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at fluctuating interest rates, primarily based on the London
Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”). In July 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority, a regulator of financial services firms in the
United Kingdom, announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit LIBOR rates after 2021. We are
unable to predict the effect of any changes, any establishment of alternative reference rates or any other reforms to LIBOR or any
replacement of LIBOR that may be enacted in the United Kingdom or elsewhere. Such changes, reforms or replacements relating to
LIBOR could have an adverse impact on the market for or value of any LIBOR-linked securities, loans, derivatives and other
financial obligations or extensions of credit held by us or on our overall financial condition or results of operations.
A downgrade in our credit ratings could have an adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results
of operations.
Claims-paying ability and financial strength and debt ratings by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations are an
important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and health benefits companies. We believe our
strong credit ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to customers, since credit ratings information is broadly
disseminated and generally used by customers and creditors. In addition, if our credit ratings are downgraded or placed under
review, our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted by limitations on future
borrowings and a potential increase in our borrowing costs. Our ratings reflect each rating agency’s opinion of our financial
strength, operating performance and ability to meet our obligations to policyholders and
-32-
creditors, and are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors in our common stock. Each of the ratings
organizations reviews our ratings periodically, and there can be no assurance that our current ratings will be maintained in the
future.
The health benefits industry is subject to negative publicity, which could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial
condition and results of operations.
The health benefits industry is subject to negative publicity, which can arise from, among other things, increases in premium
rates, industry consolidation, cost of care initiatives and the ongoing debate over the ACA. Negative publicity may result in
increased regulation and legislative review of industry practices, which may further increase our costs of doing business and
adversely affect our profitability by limiting our ability to market or provide our products and services, requiring us to change our
products and services, or increasing the regulatory oversight under which we operate. In addition, as long as we use the BCBS
names and marks in marketing our health benefits products and services, any negative publicity concerning the BCBSA or other
BCBSA licensees may adversely affect us and the sale of our health benefits products and services. Negative public perception or
publicity of the health benefits industry in general, the BCBSA, other BCBSA licensees, or us or our key vendors in particular,
could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.
The failure to effectively maintain and upgrade our information systems could adversely affect our business.
Our business depends significantly on effective information systems, and we have many different information systems for our
various businesses. As a result of our merger and acquisition activities, we have acquired additional systems. Our information
systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain and enhance existing systems and develop new
systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, emerging cybersecurity risks and
threats, evolving industry and regulatory standards including public exchanges and other aspects of the ACA, compliance with legal
requirements, private insurance exchanges and changing customer preferences. In addition, we may from time to time obtain
significant portions of our systems-related or other services or facilities from independent third parties, which may make our
operations vulnerable if such third parties fail to perform adequately.
Failure to adequately implement and maintain effective and efficient information systems with sufficiently advanced
technological capabilities, or our failure to efficiently and effectively consolidate our information systems to eliminate redundant or
obsolete applications, could result in competitive and cost disadvantages to us compared to our competitors, a diversion of
management’s time and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the
information we rely upon to run our business were found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to adequately maintain our
information systems and data integrity effectively, we could experience problems in determining medical cost estimates and
establishing appropriate pricing and reserves, have disputes with customers and providers, face regulatory problems, including
sanctions and penalties, incur increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences, including a decrease in
membership.
We are a party to license agreements with the BCBSA that entitle us to the exclusive and, in certain areas, non-exclusive use
of the BCBS names and marks in our geographic territories. The termination of these license agreements or changes in the
terms and conditions of these license agreements could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and
results of operations.
We use the BCBS names and marks as identifiers for our products and services under licenses from the BCBSA. Our license
agreements with the BCBSA contain certain requirements and restrictions regarding our operations and our use of the BCBS names
and marks, including: minimum capital and liquidity requirements; enrollment and customer service performance requirements;
participation in programs that provide portability of membership between plans; disclosures to the BCBSA relating to enrollment
and financial conditions; disclosures as to the structure of the BCBS system in contracts with third parties and in public statements;
plan governance requirements; cybersecurity requirements; a requirement that at least 80% (or, in the case of Blue Cross of
California, substantially all) of a licensee’s annual combined local net revenue, as defined by the BCBSA, attributable to healthcare
plans and related services within its service areas must be sold, marketed, administered or underwritten under the BCBS names and
marks; a requirement that at least two-thirds of a licensee’s annual combined national net revenue, as defined by the BCBSA,
attributable to healthcare plans and related services must be sold, marketed, administered or underwritten under the BCBS names
and marks; a requirement that neither a plan nor any of its licensed affiliates may permit an entity other than a plan or a licensed
affiliate to obtain control of the plan or the licensed
-33-
affiliate or to acquire a substantial portion of its assets related to licensable services; a requirement that we divide our Board of
Directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; a requirement that we guarantee certain contractual and financial
obligations of our licensed affiliates; and a requirement that we indemnify the BCBSA against any claims asserted against it
resulting from the contractual and financial obligations of any subsidiary that serves as a fiscal intermediary providing
administrative services for Medicare Parts A and B. Failure to comply with the foregoing requirements could result in a termination
of the license agreements.
The license agreements may be modified by the BCBSA. To the extent that such amendments to the license agreements are
adopted in the future, they could have a material adverse effect on our future expansion plans or results of operations. Further,
BCBS licensees have certain requirements to perform administrative services for members of other BCBS licensees. As of
December 31, 2018, we provided services to approximately 30 million Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield enrollees. If we or another
BCBS licensee are not in compliance with all legal requirements or are unable to perform administrative services as required, this
could have an adverse effect on our members and our ability to maintain our licenses, which could have a material adverse effect on
our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.
Upon the occurrence of an event causing termination of the license agreements, we would no longer have the right to use the
BCBS names and marks or to sell BCBS health insurance products and services in one or more of our service areas. Furthermore,
the BCBSA would be free to issue a license to use the BCBS names and marks in these service areas to another entity. Our existing
BCBS members would be provided with instructions for obtaining alternative products and services licensed by the BCBSA.
Events that could cause the termination of a license agreement with the BCBSA include, without limitation, failure to comply with
minimum capital requirements imposed by the BCBSA, failure to comply with governance requirements such as maintaining a
classified board structure, a change of control or violation of the BCBSA ownership limitations on our capital stock, impending
financial insolvency and the appointment of a trustee or receiver or the commencement of any action against a licensee seeking its
dissolution. We believe that the BCBS names and marks are valuable identifiers of our products and services in the marketplace.
Upon termination of a license agreement, the BCBSA would have the right to impose a “Re-establishment Fee” upon us, which
would be used in part to fund the establishment of a replacement Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield licensee in the vacated service area.
The fee is set at $98.33 per licensed enrollee. If the Re-establishment Fee was applied to our total Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield
enrollees of approximately 30 million as of December 31, 2018, we would be assessed approximately $3 billion by the BCBSA. As
a result, termination of the license agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition
and results of operations.
Large-scale medical emergencies may have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and
results of operations.
Large-scale medical emergencies can take many forms and can cause widespread illness and death. For example, federal and
state law enforcement officials have issued warnings about potential terrorist activity involving biological and other weapons. In
addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes and the potential for a widespread pandemic of influenza coupled with the lack of
availability of appropriate preventative medicines can have a significant impact on the health of the population of widespread areas.
If the United States were to experience widespread bioterrorism or other attacks, large-scale natural disasters in our concentrated
coverage areas or a large-scale pandemic or epidemic, our covered medical expenses could rise and we could experience a material
adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations or, in the event of extreme circumstances,
our viability could be threatened.
We have built a significant portion of our current business through mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic
alliances and we expect to pursue such opportunities in the future.
The following are some of the risks associated with mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances, referred to
collectively as business combinations, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and
results of operations:
•some of the business combinations may not achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow, business opportunities,
synergies, growth prospects and other anticipated benefits;
-34-
•the goodwill or other intangible assets established as a result of our business combinations may be incorrectly valued or
become non-recoverable;
•we may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to us or which were underestimated;
•we may experience difficulties in integrating business combinations, be unable to integrate business combinations
successfully or as quickly as expected, and be unable to realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a
timely manner, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems;
•business combinations, and proposed business combinations that are not completed, could disrupt our ongoing business,
lead to the incurrence of significant fees, distract management, result in the loss of key employees, divert resources, result
in tax costs or inefficiencies and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards, controls, information
technology systems, policies and procedures;
•we may finance future business combinations by issuing common stock for some or all of the purchase price, which could
dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders;
•we may also incur additional debt related to future business combinations;
•we would be competing with other firms, some of which may have greater financial and other resources, to acquire
attractive companies; and
•future business combinations may make it difficult to comply with the requirements of the BCBSA and lead to an
increased risk that our BCBSA license agreements may be terminated.
The value of our intangible assets may become impaired.
Due largely to our past mergers, acquisitions and divestitures, goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial
portion of our assets. If we make additional acquisitions, it is likely that we will record additional intangible assets on our
consolidated balance sheets. The value we place on intangible assets may be adversely impacted if business combinations fail to
perform in a manner consistent with our assumptions.
In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to
determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may no longer be recoverable, in which case a charge to income may be
necessary. This impairment testing requires us to make assumptions and judgments regarding the estimated fair value of our
reporting units, including goodwill and other intangible assets. In addition, certain other intangible assets with indefinite lives, such
as trademarks, are also tested separately. Estimated fair values developed based on our assumptions and judgments might be
significantly different if other reasonable assumptions and estimates were to be used. If estimated fair values are less than the
carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives in future impairment tests, or if significant impairment
indicators are noted relative to other intangible assets subject to amortization, we may be required to record impairment losses
against future income.
Any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially affect our results
of operations and shareholders’ equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. A material decrease in shareholders’ equity
could, in turn, negatively impact our debt ratings or potentially impact our compliance with existing debt covenants.
In addition, the estimated value of our reporting units may be impacted as a result of business decisions we make associated
with any future changes to laws and regulations. Such decisions, which could unfavorably affect our ability to support the carrying
value of certain goodwill and other intangible assets, could result in impairment charges in future periods.
Adverse securities and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs.
During periods of increased volatility, adverse securities and credit markets may exert downward pressure on the availability of
liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, make payments on our
indebtedness and pay capital expenditures. The principal sources of our cash receipts are premiums,
-35-
administrative fees, investment income, other revenue, proceeds from the sale or maturity of our investment securities, proceeds
from borrowings and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee stock plans.
Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of
credit, the volume of trading activities, the availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the
possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly,
our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. If one or a
combination of these factors were to occur, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may
not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all.
The value of our investments is influenced by varying economic and market conditions, and a decrease in value may result
in a loss charged to income.
The market values of our investments vary from time to time depending on economic and market conditions. For various
reasons, we may sell certain of our investments at prices that are less than the carrying value of the investments. During periods in
which interest rates are relatively low, as in recent years, our investment income could be adversely impacted. In addition, in
periods of declining interest rates, bond calls and mortgage loan prepayments generally increase, resulting in the reinvestment of
these funds at the then lower market rates. In periods of rising interest rates, the market values of our fixed maturity securities will
generally decrease, which could result in material losses on investments in future periods. In addition, defaults by issuers, primarily
from investments in corporate and municipal bonds, who fail to pay or perform their obligations, could reduce net investment
income, which would adversely affect our profitability. We cannot assure you that our investment portfolios will produce positive
returns or maintain their present values.
In accordance with FASB guidance for investments, we classify fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio as
“available-for-sale” or “trading” and report those securities at fair value. Current and long-term available-for-sale investment
securities represented a significant percentage of our total consolidated assets at December 31, 2018.
Changes in the economic environment, including periods of increased volatility in the securities markets, can increase the
difficulty of assessing investment impairment and the same influences tend to increase the risk of potential impairment of these
assets. Over time, the economic and market environment may provide additional insight into the value of our investment securities,
which could change our judgment regarding the fair value of certain securities and/or impairment. Given the sometimes rapidly
changing market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is continuing risk that future declines in fair value may
occur and material other-than-temporary impairments may be charged to income in future periods, resulting in realized losses.
Changes in U.S. tax laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, financial condition
and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to realize the value of our deferred tax assets.
Changes in tax laws and regulations, including with respect to corporate tax rates and the deductibility of expenses, or changes
in the interpretation of tax laws and regulations by federal and/or state authorities, could have a material impact on the future value
of our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, could result in significant one-time charges in the current or future taxable
years and could increase our future U.S. tax expense. These changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash
flow, financial condition and results of operations.
In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we separately recognize deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities.
Such deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities represent the tax effect of temporary differences between financial reporting and
tax reporting measured at tax rates enacted at the time the deferred tax asset or liability is recorded. At each financial reporting date,
we evaluate our deferred tax assets to determine the likely realization of the benefit of the temporary differences. Our evaluation
includes a review of the types of temporary differences that created the deferred tax asset; the amount of taxes paid on both capital
gains and ordinary income in prior periods and available for a carry-back claim; the forecasted future taxable income, and
therefore, the likely future deduction of the deferred tax item; and any other significant issues that might impact the realization of
the deferred tax asset. If it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax asset may not be realized, we establish a
valuation allowance. Significant judgment is required in determining an appropriate valuation allowance.
-36-
Any future increase in our valuation allowance would result in additional income tax expense and a decrease in shareholders’
equity, which could materially affect our financial position and results of operations in the period in which the increase occurs. A
material decrease in shareholders’ equity could, in turn, negatively impact our debt ratings or potentially impact our compliance
with existing debt covenants.
We face intense competition to attract and retain employees. Further, managing key executive transition, succession and
retention is critical to our success.
Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees to meet current and future needs, and to integrate
and engage employees who have joined us through acquisitions. We face intense competition for qualified employees, and there
can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain such employees or that such competition among potential employers
will not result in increasing salaries. An inability to retain existing employees or attract additional employees could have a material
adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.
We would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of our President and Chief Executive Officer
and other senior management and retention of key executives. While we have succession plans in place for members of our senior
management, and employment arrangements with certain key executives, these plans and arrangements do not guarantee that the
services of our senior executives will continue to be available to us or that we will be able to attract, transition and retain suitable
successors.
Indiana law, other applicable laws, our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and provisions of our BCBSA license
agreements may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations that our shareholders might consider to be in
their best interest.
Indiana law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt
that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interests. For instance, they may prevent our shareholders from receiving the
benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence
of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if
they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.
We are regulated as an insurance holding company and subject to the insurance holding company acts of the states in which
our insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled, as well as similar provisions included in the health statutes and regulations of
certain states where these subsidiaries are regulated as managed care companies or HMOs. The insurance holding company acts
and regulations and these similar provisions restrict the ability of any person to obtain control of an insurance company or HMO
without prior regulatory approval. Under those statutes and regulations, without such approval or an exemption, no person may
acquire any voting security of a domestic insurance company or HMO, or an insurance holding company which controls an
insurance company or HMO, or merge with such a holding company, if as a result of such transaction such person would “control”
the insurance holding company, insurance company or HMO. “Control” is generally defined as the direct or indirect power to direct
or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person and is presumed to exist if a person directly or indirectly owns or
controls 10% or more of the voting securities of another person. Further, the Indiana Business Corporation Law contains business
combination provisions that, in general, prohibit for five years any business combination with a beneficial owner of 10% or more of
our common stock unless the holder’s acquisition of the stock was approved in advance by our Board of Directors.
Our articles of incorporation restrict the beneficial ownership of our capital stock in excess of specific ownership limits. The
ownership limits restrict beneficial ownership of our voting capital stock to less than 10% for institutional investors and less than
5% for non-institutional investors, both as defined in our articles of incorporation. Additionally, no person may beneficially own
shares of our common stock representing a 20% or more ownership interest in us. These restrictions are intended to ensure our
compliance with the terms of our licenses with the BCBSA. Our articles of incorporation prohibit ownership of our capital stock
beyond these ownership limits without prior approval of a majority of our continuing directors (as defined in our articles of
incorporation). In addition, as discussed above in the risk factor describing our license agreements with the BCBSA, such license
agreements are subject to termination upon a change of control and a re-establishment fee would be imposed upon termination of
the license agreements.
-37-
Certain other provisions included in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may also have anti-takeover effects and may
delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interests. In particular, our articles
of incorporation and bylaws: divide our Board of Directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms (which is required
by our license agreement with the BCBSA); permit our Board of Directors to determine the terms of and issue one or more series of
preferred stock without further action by shareholders; restrict the maximum number of directors; limit the ability of shareholders
to remove directors; impose restrictions on shareholders’ ability to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors; impose advance notice
requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at meetings of shareholders; and prohibit
shareholders from amending certain provisions of our bylaws.
We also face other risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, which include:
•any requirement to restate financial results in the event of inappropriate application of accounting principles;
•a significant failure of our internal control over financial reporting;
•failure of our prevention and control systems related to employee compliance with internal policies, including data
security;
•provider fraud that is not prevented or detected and impacts our medical costs or those of self-insured customers;
•failure to protect our proprietary information; and
•failure of our corporate governance policies or procedures.
ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS.
None.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
We lease our principal executive offices located at 220 Virginia Avenue, Indianapolis, Indiana. In addition to this location, we
have operating facilities located in each state where we operate as licensees of the BCBSA, in each state where Amerigroup
conducts business and in certain other states where our other subsidiaries operate. A majority of these locations are also leased
properties. Our facilities support our various business segments. We believe that our properties are adequate and suitable for our
business as presently conducted as well as for the foreseeable future.
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
For information regarding our legal proceedings, see Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory
Proceedings,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES.
Not applicable.
-38-
PART II
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.
Market Information 
Our common stock, par value $0.01 per share, is listed on the NYSE under the symbol “ANTM.”
Holders
As of February 7, 2019, there were 60,778 shareholders of record of our common stock.
Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans
The information required by this Item concerning securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans is set
forth in or incorporated by reference into Part III, Item 12 “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
Related Stockholder Matters” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
The following table presents information related to our repurchases of common stock for the periods indicated:
Period Total Number
of Shares
Purchased1  Average
Price Paid
per ShareTotal Number
of Shares
Purchased as
Part of
Publicly
Announced
Programs2 Approximate
Dollar Value
of Shares that
May Yet Be
Purchased
Under the
Programs
(In millions, except share and per share data)     
October 1, 2018 to October 31, 2018 618,636 $273.13 612,200$ 5,819
November 1, 2018 to November 30, 2018 443,657 277.54 438,100 5,697
December 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018 772,820 264.85 770,300 5,493
  1,835,113  1,820,600 
      
1Total number of shares purchased includes 14,513 shares delivered to or withheld by us in connection with employee payroll
tax withholding upon exercise or vesting of stock awards. Stock grants to employees and directors and stock issued for stock
option plans and stock purchase plans in the consolidated statements of shareholders’ equity are shown net of these shares
purchased.
2Represents the number of shares repurchased through the common stock repurchase program authorized by our Board of
Directors, which the Board evaluates periodically. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we repurchased 6,783,692
shares at a cost of $1,685 under the program, including the cost of options to purchase shares. The Board of Directors has
authorized our common stock repurchase program since 2003. The Board’s most recent authorized increase to the program was
$5,000 on December 7, 2017. Between January 1, 2019 and February 7, 2019, we repurchased 631,943 shares at a cost of
$165, bringing our current availability to $5,328 at February 7, 2019. No duration has been placed on our common stock
repurchase program and we reserve the right to discontinue the program at any time.
-39-
Performance Graph
The following Performance Graph and related information compares the cumulative total return to shareholders of our
common stock for the period from December 31, 2013 through December 31, 2018, with the cumulative total return over such
period of (i) the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index (the “S&P 500 Index”) and (ii) the Standard & Poor’s Managed Health Care
Index (the “S&P Managed Health Care Index”). The graph assumes an investment of $100 on December 31, 2013 in each of our
common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Managed Health Care Index (and the reinvestment of all dividends).
The comparisons shown in the graph below are based on historical data and we caution that the stock price performance shown
in the graph below is not indicative of, and is not intended to forecast, the potential future performance of our common stock.
Information used in the graph was obtained from S&P Global Market Intelligence, a source believed to be reliable, but we are not
responsible for any errors or omissions in such information. The following graph and related information shall not be deemed
“soliciting materials” or to be “filed” with the SEC, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing
under the Exchange Act, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing.
 December 31,
 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Anthem, Inc. $100$138$156 $164 $260 $307
S&P 500 Index 100 114 115 129 157 150
S&P Managed Health Care Index 100 134 163 195 280 311
       
Based upon an initial investment of $100 on December 31, 2013 with dividends reinvested.
-40-
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
The table below provides selected consolidated financial data of Anthem. The information has been derived from our
consolidated financial statements for each of the years in the five-year period ended December 31, 2018. You should read this
selected consolidated financial data in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes as of and for the
year ended December 31, 2018 included in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and Part II, Item 7
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.
  As of and for the Years Ended December 31
  2018 1 2017 1  2016 2015 1  2014 2
(in millions, except where indicated and except per share
data)        
Income Statement Data     
Total operating revenue3 $ 91,341 $ 89,061 $ 84,194 $ 78,405 $ 73,022
Total revenues 92,105 90,040 84,863 79,157 73,874
Income from continuing operations 3,750 3,843 2,470 2,560 2,560
Net income 3,750 3,843 2,470 2,560 2,570
Per Share Data    
Basic net income per share - continuing operations $ 14.53 $ 14.70 $ 9.39 $ 9.73 $ 9.28
Diluted net income per share - continuing operations 14.19 14.35 9.21 9.38 8.96
Dividends per share 3.00 2.70 2.60 2.50 1.75
Other Data (unaudited)    
Benefit expense ratio4 84.2% 86.4% 84.8% 83.3% 83.1%
Selling, general and administrative expense ratio5 15.3% 14.2% 14.9% 16.0% 16.1%
Income from continuing operations before income tax
expense as a percentage of total revenues 5.5% 4.4% 5.4% 5.9% 5.9%
Net income as a percentage of total revenues 4.1% 4.3% 2.9% 3.2% 3.5%
Medical membership (in thousands) 39,938 40,299 39,940 38,599 37,499
Balance Sheet Data    
Cash and investments6 $ 22,639 $ 25,179 $ 23,263 $ 21,065 $ 22,062
Total assets 71,571 70,540 65,083 61,718 61,676
Long-term debt, less current portion 17,217 17,382 14,359 15,325 14,020
Total liabilities 43,030 44,037 39,982 38,673 37,425
Total shareholders’ equity 28,541 26,503 25,101 23,045 24,251
1 The net assets of and results of operations for America’s 1st Choice, HealthSun and Simply Healthcare are included from their respective acquisition dates of
February 15, 2018, December 21, 2017 and February 17, 2015, respectively.
2 The operating results of 1-800 CONTACTS, Inc. are reported as discontinued operations at December 31, 2014 as a result of the divestiture completed on
January 31, 2014. Included in net income for the year ended December 31, 2014 is income from discontinued operations, net of tax, of $10.
3 Operating revenue is obtained by adding premiums and administrative fees and other revenue.
4 The benefit expense ratio represents benefit expenses as a percentage of premium revenue.
5 The selling, general and administrative expense ratio represents selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total operating revenue.
6 Cash and investments is obtained by adding cash and cash equivalents, current and long-term fixed maturity securities and current and long-term equity
securities.
-41-
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS.
 (In Millions, Except Per Share Data or As Otherwise Stated Herein)
 This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or MD&A, should be read in
conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
References to the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “Anthem” or the “Company” used throughout this MD&A refer to Anthem, Inc., an
Indiana corporation, and, unless the context otherwise requires, its direct and indirect subsidiaries. References to the “states”
include the District of Columbia, unless the context otherwise requires.
Overview
We are one of the largest health benefits companies in the United States in terms of medical membership, serving
approximately 40 medical members through our affiliated health plans as of December 31, 2018. We are an independent licensee of
the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, or BCBSA, an association of independent health benefit plans. We serve our members
as the Blue Cross licensee for California and as the Blue Cross and Blue Shield, or BCBS, licensee for Colorado, Connecticut,
Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York
(in the New York City metropolitan area and upstate New York), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of
Washington, D.C.) and Wisconsin. In a majority of these service areas, we do business as Anthem Blue Cross, Anthem Blue Cross
and Blue Shield, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Georgia, and Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield or Empire Blue Cross. We also
conduct business through arrangements with other BCBS licensees in Louisiana, South Carolina and western New York. Through
our subsidiaries, we also serve customers in over 25 states across the country as America’s 1st Choice, Amerigroup, Aspire Health,
CareMore, Freedom Health, HealthLink, HealthSun, Optimum HealthCare, Simply Healthcare, and/or UniCare. We are licensed to
conduct insurance operations in all 50 states and the District of Columbia through our subsidiaries.
We manage our operations through three reportable segments: Commercial & Specialty Business, Government Business and
Other. During the fourth quarter of 2018, we reclassified certain ancillary businesses to align how our segments are currently being
managed. Prior year amounts have been reclassified for comparability.
Our operating revenue consists of premiums and administrative fees and other revenue. Premium revenue comes from fully-
insured contracts where we indemnify our policyholders against costs for covered health and life benefits. Administrative fees come
from contracts where our customers are self-insured, or where the fee is based on either processing of transactions or a percent of
network discount savings realized. Additionally, we earn administrative fee revenues from our Medicare processing business and
from other health-related businesses including disease management programs. Other revenue includes miscellaneous income other
than premium revenue and administrative fees.
Our benefit expense primarily includes costs of care for health services consumed by our fully-insured members, such as
outpatient care, inpatient hospital care, professional services (primarily physician care) and pharmacy benefit costs. All four
components are affected both by unit costs and utilization rates. Unit costs include the cost of outpatient medical procedures per
visit, inpatient hospital care per admission, physician fees per office visit and prescription drug prices. Utilization rates represent
the volume of consumption of health services and typically vary with the age and health status of our members and their social and
lifestyle choices, along with clinical protocols and medical practice patterns in each of our markets. A portion of benefit expense
recognized in each reporting period consists of actuarial estimates of claims incurred but not yet paid by us. Any changes in these
estimates are recorded in the period the need for such an adjustment arises. While we offer a diversified mix of managed care
products and services through our managed care plans, our aggregate cost of care can fluctuate based on a change in the overall mix
of these products and services. Our managed care plans include: Preferred Provider Organizations, or PPOs; Health Maintenance
Organizations, or HMOs; Point-of-Service plans, or POS plans; traditional indemnity plans and other hybrid plans, including
Consumer-Driven Health Plans, or CDHPs; and hospital only and limited benefit products.
We classify certain claims-related costs as benefit expense to reflect costs incurred for our members’ traditional medical care,
as well as those expenses which improve our members’ health and medical outcomes. These claims-related costs may be comprised
of expenses incurred for: (i) medical management, including case and prospective utilization management; (ii) health and wellness,
including disease management services for such conditions as diabetes, high-risk pregnancies,
-42-
congestive heart failure and asthma management and wellness initiatives like weight-loss programs and smoking cessation
treatments; and (iii) clinical health policy such as identification and use of best clinical practices to avoid harm, identifying clinical
errors and safety concerns, and identifying potential adverse drug interactions. These types of claims-related costs are designed to
ultimately lower our members’ cost of care. 
Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist of fixed and variable costs. Examples of fixed costs are depreciation,
amortization and certain facilities expenses. Certain variable costs, such as premium taxes, vary directly with premium volume.
Commission expense generally varies with premium or membership volume. Other variable costs, such as salaries and benefits, do
not vary directly with changes in premium but are more aligned with changes in membership. The acquisition or loss of a
significant block of business would likely impact staffing levels and thus, associated compensation expense. Other variable costs
include professional and consulting expenses and advertising. Other factors can impact our administrative cost structure, including
systems efficiencies, inflation and changes in productivity.
Our results of operations depend in large part on our ability to accurately predict and effectively manage healthcare costs
through effective contracting with providers of care to our members and our medical management and health and wellness
programs. Several economic factors related to healthcare costs, such as regulatory mandates of coverage as well as direct-to-
consumer advertising by providers and pharmaceutical companies, have a direct impact on the volume of care consumed by our
members. The potential effect of escalating healthcare costs, any changes in our ability to negotiate competitive rates with our
providers and any regulatory or market-driven restrictions on our ability to obtain adequate premium rates to offset overall inflation
in healthcare costs, including increases in unit costs and utilization resulting from the aging of the population and other
demographics, as well as advances in medical technology, may impose further risks to our ability to profitably underwrite our
business, and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.
For additional information about our business and reportable segments, see Part I, Item 1, “Business” and in Note 19,
“Segment Information” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.
Business Trends
The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, as amended, or
collectively, the ACA, has changed and may continue to make broad-based changes to the U.S. healthcare system, which we expect
will continue to impact our business model and strategy. Also, the legal challenges regarding the ACA, including the ultimate
outcome of the December 2018 decision of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas, Fort Worth Division
invalidating the ACA (the “2018 Texas District Court ACA Decision”), which judgment has been stayed pending appeal, could
significantly disrupt our business. During 2018, we strategically reduced our participation in the Individual ACA-compliant market.
Our strategy has been, and will continue to be, to only participate in rating regions where we have an appropriate level of
confidence that these markets are on a path toward sustainability, including, but not limited to, factors such as expected financial
performance, regulatory environment, and underlying market characteristics. We currently offer Individual ACA-compliant
products in 73 of the 143 rating regions in which we operate.
In October 2017, we established a new pharmacy benefits manager, or PBM, called IngenioRx, and entered into a five-year
agreement with CaremarkPCS Health, L.L.C., or CVS Health, which is a subsidiary of CVS Health Corporation, to begin offering
PBM solutions upon the conclusion of our current PBM Agreement with Express Scripts Inc., or Express Scripts. The twelve-
month transition period to migrate the services from Express Scripts begins March 2, 2019, at which time CVS Health can begin
providing certain PBM services to IngenioRx. We expect IngenioRx to provide our members with more cost-effective solutions and
improve our ability to integrate pharmacy benefits within our already strong medical and specialty platform.
Pricing Trends: We strive to price our healthcare benefit products consistent with anticipated underlying medical trends. We
frequently make adjustments to respond to legislative and regulatory changes as well as pricing and other actions taken by existing
competitors and new market entrants. Product pricing in our Commercial & Specialty Business segment, including our Individual
and Small Group lines of business, remains competitive. The ACA imposed an annual Health Insurance Provider Fee, or HIP Fee,
on health insurers that write certain types of health insurance on U.S. risks. We price our affected products to cover the impact of
the HIP Fee. The HIP Fee was suspended for 2019 and is scheduled to resume for 2020.
-43-
Revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs are dependent, in whole or in part, upon annual funding from the federal
government and/or applicable state governments.
Medical Cost Trends: Our medical cost trends are primarily driven by increases in the utilization of services across all provider
types and the unit cost increases of these services. We work to mitigate these trends through various medical management programs
such as utilization management, condition management, program integrity and specialty pharmacy management, as well as benefit
design changes. There are many drivers of medical cost trends that can cause variance from our estimates, such as changes in the
level and mix of services utilized, regulatory changes, aging of the population, health status and other demographic characteristics
of our members, epidemics, advances in medical technology, new high cost prescription drugs, and healthcare provider or member
fraud. Our underlying Local Group medical cost trends reflect the “allowed amount,” or contractual rate, paid to providers. We
estimate that our aggregate cost of care trend was slightly below the midpoint of our 5.5% to 6.5% range for the full year of 2018.
We anticipate the Local Group medical cost trend will be in the range of 5.5% to 6.5% in 2019.
For additional discussion regarding business trends, see Part I, Item 1 “Business” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Regulatory Trends and Uncertainties
The ACA presented us with new growth opportunities, but also introduced new risks, regulatory challenges and uncertainties,
and required changes in the way products are designed, underwritten, priced, distributed and administered. Changes to our business
environment are likely to continue for the next several years as elected officials at the national and state levels continue to propose
and enact significant modifications to existing laws and regulations, including the reduction of the individual mandate penalty to
zero effective January 1, 2019, elimination of funding for cost-sharing subsidies made available for qualified individuals, and
changes to taxes and fees. In addition, the legal challenges regarding the ACA, including the ultimate outcome of the 2018 Texas
District Court ACA Decision, continue to contribute to this uncertainty. We will continue to evaluate the impact of the ACA as
additional guidance is made available and any further developments or judicial rulings occur.
The annual HIP Fee is allocated to health insurers based on the ratio of the amount of an insurer’s net premium revenues
written during the preceding calendar year to the amount of health insurance premium for all U.S. health risk for those certain lines
of business written during the preceding calendar year. We record our estimated liability for the HIP Fee in full at the beginning of
the year with a corresponding deferred asset that is amortized on a straight-line basis to selling, general and administrative expense.
The final calculation and payment of the annual HIP Fee is due by September 30th of each fee year. The HIP Fee is non-deductible
for federal income tax purposes. We price our affected products to cover the increased selling, general and administrative and
income tax expenses associated with the HIP Fee. The total amount due from allocations to health insurers was $14,300 for 2018,
and we recognized $1,544 as selling, general and administrative expense related to the HIP Fee. There was no corresponding
expense for 2017 due to the suspension of the HIP Fee for 2017. The HIP Fee is suspended for 2019 and scheduled to resume for
2020.
As a result of the ACA, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, issued Medical Loss Ratio, or MLR,
regulations that require us to meet minimum MLR thresholds of 85% for Large Group and 80% for Small Group and Individual
lines of business. Plans that do not meet the minimum thresholds have to pay a MLR rebate. For purposes of determining MLR
rebates, HHS has defined the types of costs that should be included in the MLR rebate calculation. However, certain components of
the MLR calculation as defined by HHS cannot be classified consistently under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or
GAAP. While considered benefit expense or a reduction of premium revenue by HHS, certain of these costs are classified as other
types of expense, such as selling, general and administrative expense or income tax expense, in our GAAP basis financial
statements. Accordingly, the benefit expense ratio determined using our consolidated GAAP operating results is not comparable to
the MLR calculated under HHS regulations.
The ACA also imposed a separate minimum MLR threshold of 85% for Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription
drug plans, or Medicare Part D. Medicare Advantage or Medicare Part D plans that do not meet this threshold have to pay an MLR
rebate. If a plan’s MLR is below 85% for three consecutive years beginning with 2014, enrollment is restricted. A Medicare
Advantage or Medicare Part D plan contract will be terminated if the plan’s MLR is below 85% for five consecutive years.
-44-
For additional discussion regarding regulatory trends and uncertainties, and risk factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, see Part I, Item 1
“Business - Regulation” and Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors.”
Other Significant Items or Transactions
In October 2017, we established IngenioRx and entered into a five-year agreement with CVS Health to begin offering PBM
solutions (the “CVS PBM Agreement”), which coincides with the conclusion of our current PBM agreement with Express Scripts
(the “ESI PBM Agreement”). In January 2019, we exercised our contractual right to terminate the ESI PBM Agreement earlier than
the original expiration date of December 31, 2019 due to the recent acquisition of Express Scripts by Cigna Corporation, or Cigna.
As a result of exercising our early termination right, the ESI PBM Agreement will now terminate on March 1, 2019, and the
twelve-month transition period to migrate the services begins on March 2, 2019. At that time CVS Health is able to begin providing
certain PBM services to IngenioRx pursuant to the CVS PBM Agreement. Notwithstanding our termination of the ESI PBM
Agreement, the litigation between us and Express Scripts regarding the ESI PBM Agreement continues. In March 2016, we filed a
lawsuit against Express Scripts seeking to recover damages for pharmacy pricing that is higher than competitive benchmark pricing
and damages related to operational breaches. Express Scripts filed an answer to the lawsuit disputing our contractual claims and
alleging various defenses and counterclaims. For additional information regarding this lawsuit, see Note 13, “Commitments and
Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings - Express Scripts, Inc. Pharmacy Benefit Management Litigation,” of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
On February 15, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Freedom Health, Inc., Optimum HealthCare, Inc., America’s 1st
Choice of South Carolina, Inc. and related entities, or collectively, America’s 1st Choice, a Medicare Advantage organization that
offers HMO products, including Chronic Special Needs Plans and Dual-Eligible Special Needs Plans under its Freedom Health and
Optimum HealthCare brands in Florida and its America’s 1st Choice of South Carolina brand in South Carolina. At the time of
acquisition, through its Medicare Advantage Plans, America’s 1st Choice served approximately one hundred and thirty-five
thousand members in 25 Florida and 3 South Carolina counties. This acquisition aligned with our plans for continued growth in
the Medicare Advantage and Special Needs populations.
In December 2017, we acquired HealthSun Health Plans, Inc., or HealthSun, which at the time of acquisition served
approximately forty thousand members in the state of Florida through its Medicare Advantage plans, and which received a five-star
rating from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. This acquisition aligned with our plans for continued growth in the
Medicare Advantage and dual-eligible populations.
For additional information related to the acquisitions of America’s 1st Choice and HealthSun, see Note 3, “Business
Acquisitions,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
In May 2017, we announced that we were terminating the Agreement and Plan of Merger, or Cigna Merger Agreement,
between us and Cigna. Both we and Cigna have commenced litigation against the other seeking various actions and damages,
including Cigna’s damage claim for a $1,850 termination fee pursuant to the terms of the Cigna Merger Agreement. For additional
information about the ongoing litigation related to the Cigna Merger Agreement, see Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies -
Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings - Cigna Corporation Merger Litigation,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Other significant transactions in recent years that have impacted or will impact our capital structure or that have influenced or
will influence how we conduct our business operations include our Board of Directors’ declarations of dividends on our common
stock (2013 through January 2019), repurchases of our common stock (2019 and prior), and debt repurchases and new debt
issuances (2018 and prior). For additional information regarding these transactions, see Note 12, “Debt” and Note 14, “Capital
Stock,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Operating Performance
Operating revenue for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $91,341, an increase of $2,280, or 2.6%, from the year ended
December 31, 2017. The increase in operating revenue was primarily a result of higher premium revenue in our
-45-
Government Business segment, and, to a lesser extent, increased administrative fees and other revenue in our Commercial &
Specialty Business segment. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in premium revenue in our Commercial &
Specialty Business segment.
Net income for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $3,750, a decrease of $93, or 2.4%, from the year ended December 31,
2017. The decrease in net income was primarily a result of higher income tax expense, net realized losses on investments and
increased amortization of other intangible assets. The decrease in net income was partially offset by higher operating results in both
our Commercial & Specialty Business and Government Business segments, lower realized losses on extinguishment of debt and an
increase in net earnings from investment activities.
Our fully-diluted earnings per share, or EPS, for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $14.19, a decrease of $0.16, or 1.1%,
from the year ended December 31, 2017. Our diluted shares for the year ended December 31, 2018 were 264.2, a decrease of 3.6, or
1.3% compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. The decrease in EPS resulted from the decrease in net income, partially
offset by the lower number of shares outstanding in 2018.
Operating cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $3,827, or 1.0 times net income. Operating cash flow for the
year ended December 31, 2017 was $4,185, or 1.1 times net income. The decrease in operating cash flow from 2017 of $358 was
primarily due to increased spend to support growth initiatives and the impact of membership declines due to our reduced
participation in ACA-compliant Individual marketplaces, and to a lesser extent, membership declines in our fully-insured Local
Group business. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was partially offset by cash receipts related to rate increases
across our businesses designed to cover overall cost trends. The decrease was further offset by lower income taxes paid in 2018 as a
result of the tax bill, H.R.1, An Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the
budget for fiscal year 2018, or the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, enacted by the federal government on December 22, 2017. The Tax Cuts
and Jobs Act reduced the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018.
Our results of operations discussed throughout this MD&A are determined in accordance with GAAP. We also calculate
operating gain, a non-GAAP measure, to further aid investors in understanding and analyzing our core operating results. We define
operating revenue as premium income and administrative fees and other revenues. Operating gain is calculated as total operating
revenue less benefit expense and selling, general and administrative expense. We use these measures as a basis for evaluating
segment performance, allocating resources, forecasting future operating periods and setting incentive compensation targets. This
information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for income before income tax expense, net income or
EPS prepared in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. For
additional details on operating gain, see our “Reportable Segments Results of Operations” discussion included in this MD&A. For
a reconciliation of reportable segment operating revenue to the amounts of total revenue included in the consolidated statements of
income and a reconciliation of reportable segment operating gain to income before income tax expense, see Note 19, “Segment
Information,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We intend to expand through a combination of organic growth, strategic acquisitions and efficient use of capital in both
existing and new markets. Our growth strategy is designed to enable us to take advantage of additional economies of scale, as well
as providing us access to new and evolving technologies and products. In addition, we believe geographic and product diversity
reduces our exposure to local or regional regulatory, economic and competitive pressures and provides us with increased
opportunities for growth. In 2018, we reduced our participation in the Individual ACA-compliant market. In all other markets, we
have maintained our position or achieved growth as a result of strategic mergers and acquisitions, as well as organic growth
resulting from delivering excellent service, offering competitively priced products, providing access to high-quality provider
networks and effectively capitalizing on the brand strength of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks.
-46-
Membership
Our medical membership includes seven different customer types: Local Group, Individual, National Accounts, BlueCard®,
Medicare, Medicaid and FEP®. BCBS-branded business generally refers to members in our service areas licensed by the BCBSA.
Non-BCBS-branded business refers to members in our non-BCBS-branded America’s 1st Choice, Amerigroup, CareMore,
HealthSun, and Simply Healthcare plans, as well as HealthLink and UniCare members. In addition to the above medical
membership, we also serve customers who purchase one or more of our other products or services that are often ancillary to our
health business.
•Local Group consists of those employer customers with less than 5% of eligible employees located outside of the
headquarter state, as well as customers with more than 5% of eligible employees located outside of the headquarter state
with up to 5,000 eligible employees. In addition, Local Group includes UniCare members. Local Group accounts are
generally sold through brokers or consultants working with industry specialists from our in-house sales force and are
offered both on and off the public exchanges. Local Group insurance premiums may be based on claims incurred by the
group or sold on a self-insured basis. The customer’s buying decision is typically based upon the size and breadth of our
networks, customer service, the quality of our medical management services, the administrative cost included in our
quoted price, our financial stability, our reputation and our ability to effectively service large complex accounts. Local
Group accounted for 39.4%, 39.4% and 38.6% of our medical members at December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016,
respectively.
•Individual consists of individual customers under age 65 and their covered dependents. Individual policies are generally
sold through independent agents and brokers, retail partnerships, our in-house sales force or via the exchanges. Individual
business is sold on a fully-insured basis. We offer on-exchange products through public exchanges and off-exchange
products. Federal premium subsidies are available only for certain public exchange Individual products. Unsubsidized
Individual customers are generally more sensitive to product pricing and, to a lesser extent, the configuration of the
network and the efficiency of administration. Customer turnover is generally higher with Individual as compared to Local
Group. Individual business accounted for 1.6%, 3.9% and 4.2% of our medical members at December 31, 2018, 2017 and
2016, respectively.
•National Accounts generally consist of multi-state employer groups primarily headquartered in an Anthem service area
with at least 5% of the eligible employees located outside of the headquarter state and with more than 5,000 eligible
employees. Some exceptions are allowed based on broker and consultant relationships. Service area is defined as the
geographic area in which we are licensed to sell BCBS products. National Accounts are generally sold through
independent brokers or consultants retained by the customer working with our in-house sales force. We believe we have an
advantage when competing for very large National Accounts due to the size and breadth of our networks and our ability to
access the national provider networks of BCBS companies at their competitive local market rates. National Accounts
represented 19.0%, 18.5% and 18.8% of our medical members at December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
•BlueCard® host customers represent enrollees of Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield plans not owned by Anthem who receive
healthcare services in our BCBSA licensed markets. BlueCard® membership consists of estimated host members using the
national BlueCard® program. Host members are generally members who reside in or travel to a state in which an Anthem
subsidiary is the Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield licensee and who are covered under an employer-sponsored health plan
issued by a non-Anthem controlled BCBSA licensee (i.e., the “home plan”). We perform certain administrative functions
for BlueCard® members, for which we receive administrative fees from the BlueCard® members’ home plans. Other
administrative functions, including maintenance of enrollment information and customer service, are performed by the
home plan. Host members are computed using, among other things, the average number of BlueCard® claims received per
month. BlueCard® host membership accounted for 14.6%, 14.2% and 14.5% of our medical members at December 31,
2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
•Medicare customers are Medicare-eligible individual members age 65 and over who have enrolled in Medicare
Supplement plans; Medicare Advantage, including Special Needs Plans; Medicare Part D; and dual-eligible programs
through Medicare-Medicaid Plans, or MMPs. Medicare Supplement plans typically pay the difference between healthcare
costs incurred by a beneficiary and amounts paid by Medicare. Medicare Advantage plans provide Medicare beneficiaries
with a managed care alternative to traditional Medicare and often include a Medicare Part D benefit. In addition, our
Medicare Advantage Special Needs Plans provide tailored benefits to Medicare beneficiaries who have chronic diseases
and also cover certain dual-eligible customers, who are low-income seniors
-47-
and persons under age 65 with disabilities. Medicare Advantage membership also includes Employer Group Medicare
Advantage members who are related to National Accounts or retired members of Local Group accounts who have selected
a Medicare Advantage product. Medicare Part D offers a prescription drug plan to Medicare and MMP beneficiaries.
MMP, which was established as a result of the passage of the ACA, is a demonstration program focused on serving
members who are dually eligible for Medicaid and Medicare. Medicare Supplement and Medicare Advantage products are
marketed in the same manner, primarily through independent agents and brokers. Medicare business accounted for 4.6%,
3.9% and 3.6% of our medical members at December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
•Medicaid membership represents eligible members who receive healthcare benefits through publicly funded healthcare
programs, including Medicaid, ACA-related Medicaid expansion programs, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families,
programs for seniors and people with disabilities, Children’s Health Insurance Programs, and specialty programs such as
those focused on long-term services and support, HIV/AIDS, foster care, behavioral health and/or substance abuse
disorders, and intellectual disabilities or developmental disabilities, among others. Total Medicaid program business
accounted for 16.8%, 16.1% and 16.4% of our medical members at December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
•FEP® members consist of United States government employees and their dependents within our geographic markets
through our participation in the national contract between the BCBSA and the U.S. Office of Personnel Management.
FEP® business accounted for 3.9% of our medical members at each of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.
In addition to reporting our medical membership by customer type, we report by funding arrangement according to the level of
risk that we assume in the product contract. Our two principal funding arrangement categories are fully-insured and self-funded.
Fully-insured products are products in which we indemnify our policyholders against costs for health benefits. Self-funded products
are offered to customers, generally larger employers, who elect to retain most or all of the financial risk associated with their
employees’ healthcare costs. Some self-funded customers choose to purchase stop loss coverage to limit their retained risk.
During the fourth quarter of 2018 we made a number of changes to our membership reporting to better align our reported
membership to the appropriate type, funding arrangement and segment, including movement of our Employer Group Medicare
Advantage members from National Accounts to Medicare Advantage, reclassification of these Employer Group members from the
Commercial & Specialty Business segment to our Government Business segment, and other marginal changes.
-48-
The following table presents our medical membership by customer type, funding arrangement and reportable segment as of
December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. Also included below is other membership by product. The medical membership and other
membership presented are unaudited and in certain instances include estimates of the number of members represented by each
contract at the end of the period.
  December  31  2018 vs. 2017  2017 vs. 2016
(In thousands) 2018  2017 1 2016 1 Change  % Change  Change  % Change
Medical Membership          
Customer  Type          
Local Group 15,733  15,888  15,417  (155) (1.0)% 471  3.1 %
Individual 655  1,588  1,664  (933) (58.8 )% (76) (4.6)%
National:          
National Accounts 7,588  7,463  7,510  125  1.7 % (47) (0.6)%
BlueCard®5,838  5,733  5,774  105  1.8 % (41) (0.7)%
Total National 13,426  13,196  13,284  230  1.7 % (88) (0.7)%
Medicare:          
Medicare Advantage 1,006  746  629  260  34.9 % 117 18.6 %
Medicare Supplement 846  823  828  23 2.8 % (5) (0.6)%
Total Medicare 1,852  1,569  1,457  283  18.0 % 112 7.7 %
Medicaid 6,716  6,496  6,548  220  3.4 % (52) (0.8)%
Federal Employee Program®1,556  1,562  1,570  (6) (0.4)% (8) (0.5)%
Total Medical Membership by Customer Type 39,938  40,299  39,940  (361) (0.9)% 359  0.9 %
Funding Arrangement          
Self-Funded 25,287  24,862  24,563  425  1.7 % 299  1.2 %
Fully-Insured 14,651  15,437  15,377  (786) (5.1)% 60 0.4 %
Total Medical Membership by Funding Arrangement 39,938  40,299  39,940  (361) (0.9)% 359  0.9 %
Reportable Segment          
Commercial & Specialty Business 29,814  30,672  30,365  (858) (2.8)% 307  1.0 %
Government Business 10,124  9,627  9,575  497  5.2 % 52 0.5 %
Total Medical Membership by Reportable Segment 39,938  40,299  39,940  (361) (0.9)% 359  0.9 %
Other  Membership          
Life and Disability Members 4,795  4,700  4,732  95 2.0 % (32) (0.7)%
Dental Members 5,807  5,864  5,486  (57) (1.0)% 378  6.9 %
Dental Administration Members 5,327  5,342  5,294  (15) (0.3)% 48 0.9 %
Vision Members 6,946  6,867  6,388  79 1.2 % 479  7.5 %
Medicare Part D Standalone Members 309  318  350  (9) (2.8)% (32) (9.1)%
1 Certain types of membership have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, as described above.
December 31, 2018 Compared to December 31, 2017
Medical Membership
Total medical membership decreased primarily due to decreases in our Individual, Local Group and FEP membership, partially
offset by increases in our Medicare, Medicaid, National Accounts and BlueCard® membership. Our reduced participation in ACA-
compliant marketplaces led to the decreases in our Individual and fully-insured memberships. This decrease in fully-insured
membership was partially offset by an increase in Medicare membership as a result of our America’s 1st Choice acquisition and
higher sales during open enrollment. Self-funded medical membership increased due to
-49-
increases in our National Accounts and Large Group businesses and higher activity from BlueCard® membership. Local Group
membership decreased as a result of competitive pressures in fully-insured membership, partially offset by new sales and growth in
our existing self-funded business. National Accounts membership increased primarily due to new sales and growth from existing
contracts exceeding lapses. BlueCard® membership increased primarily due to higher membership activity at other BCBSA plans
whose members reside in or travel to our licensed areas. Medicare Advantage membership increased primarily due to membership
acquired through the acquisition of America’s 1st Choice and organic growth in existing markets. Medicaid membership increased
primarily due to new business, partially offset by certain state market contractions and membership reverification processes.
Other Membership
Growth in our other membership can be impacted by changes in our medical membership, as our medical members often
purchase our other products that are ancillary to our health business. We have experienced growth in our life and disability and
vision memberships primarily due to higher sales in our Large Group business. Dental membership decreased primarily due to our
reduced participation in ACA-compliant marketplaces, partially offset by higher sales in our Local Group and National Accounts
businesses. Dental administration membership decreased primarily due to the loss of a large managed dental contract, partially
offset by membership expansion under current contracts.
December 31, 2017 Compared to December 31, 2016
Medical Membership
Total medical membership increased primarily due to increases in our Local Group and Medicare membership, partially offset
by decreases in our Individual, National Accounts, Medicaid, and BlueCard® membership. Self-funded medical membership
increased primarily due to new sales and growth in our existing Large Group accounts, partially offset by lower activity from
BlueCard® membership and the loss of a large multi-state employer group contract in our National Accounts. Fully-insured
membership increased primarily due to higher sales during Medicare open enrollment, new sales in Large Group accounts and
Medicare membership acquired through the acquisition of HealthSun. These increases in fully-insured membership were partially
offset by attrition in both our non-ACA-compliant and ACA-compliant off-exchange Individual product offerings. Local Group
membership increased primarily due to new sales and growth in our existing Large Group accounts. Individual membership
decreased primarily due to attrition in both our non-ACA-compliant and ACA-compliant off-exchange product offerings, partially
offset by growth in ACA-compliant on-exchange product offerings. National Accounts membership decreased primarily due to the
loss of a large multi-state employer group, partially offset by new sales. BlueCard® membership decreased primarily due to lower
membership activity at other BCBSA plans whose members reside in or travel to our licensed areas. Medicare membership
increased primarily due to higher sales during open enrollment, membership acquired through the acquisition of HealthSun and
growth in certain existing Medicare Advantage markets. Medicaid membership decreased primarily due to membership
reverification processes and the impact of a new entrant in one of our existing markets, partially offset by new business expansions.
Other Membership
Life and disability membership decreased primarily due to higher lapses in our fully-insured Local Group business. Dental
membership increased primarily due to new sales and increased penetration in our Local Group and National Accounts businesses.
Dental administration membership increased primarily due to membership expansion under current contracts. Vision membership
increased primarily due to new sales and increased penetration in our National Accounts, Local Group and Medicare product
offerings. Medicare Part D standalone membership decreased primarily due to our product repositioning strategies in certain
markets.
-50-
Consolidated Results of Operations
Our consolidated summarized results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 are discussed in the
following section.
  Change
 Years Ended December 31 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016
 2018 2017 2016 $ % $ %
Total operating revenue $ 91,341 $ 89,061 $ 84,194 $2,280 2.6 % $4,867 5.8 %
Net investment income 970 867 779 103 11.9 % 88 11.3 %
Net realized (losses) gains on financial
instruments (180) 145 5 (325) (224.1 )% 140 2,800.0  %
Other -than-temporary impairment
losses recognized in income (26) (33) (115) 7 21.2 % 82 71.3 %
Total r evenues 92,105 90,040 84,863 2,065 2.3 % 5,177 6.1 %
Benefit expense 71,895 72,236 66,834 (341) (0.5)% 5,402 8.1 %
Selling, general and administrative
expense 14,020 12,650 12,559 1,370 10.8 % 91 0.7 %
Other expense1 1,122 1,190 915 (68) (5.7)% 275 30.1 %
Total expenses 87,037 86,076 80,308 961 1.1 % 5,768 7.2 %
Income befor e income tax expense 5,068 3,964 4,555 1,104 27.9 % (591) (13.0 )%
Income tax expense 1,318 121 2,085 1,197 989.3  % (1,964 ) (94.2 )%
Net income $ 3,750 $ 3,843 $ 2,470 $ (93) (2.4)% $1,373 55.6 %
    
Average diluted shares outstanding 264.2 267.8 268.1 (3.6) (1.3)% (0.3) (0.1)%
Diluted net income per share $ 14.19 $ 14.35 $ 9.21 $(0.16 ) (1.1)% $ 5.14 55.8 %
Effective Tax Rate 26.0% 3.1% 45.8% 2,290bp3 (4,270)bp3
Benefit expense ratio284.2% 86.4% 84.8% (220)bp3 160bp3
Selling, general and administrative
expense ratio4 15.3% 14.2% 14.9% 110bp3 (70)bp3
Income before income tax expense as a
percentage of total revenues 5.5% 4.4% 5.4% 110bp3 (100)bp3
Net income as a percentage of total
revenues 4.1% 4.3% 2.9% (20)bp3 140bp3
Certain of the following definitions are also applicable to all other results of operations tables in this discussion:
1 Includes interest expense, amortization of other intangible assets and loss on extinguishment of debt.
2 Benefit expense ratio represents benefit expense as a percentage of premium revenue. Premiums for the years ended December 31, 2018 ,
2017  and 2016  were $85,421 , $83,648  and $78,860 , respectively . Premiums are included in total operating revenue presented above.
3 bp = basis point; one hundred basis points = 1%.
4 Selling, general and administrative expense ratio represents selling, general and administrative expense as a percentage of total operating
revenue.
Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2017
Total operating revenue increased primarily from higher premiums, and, to a lesser extent, increased administrative fees and
other revenue. Higher premiums were primarily due to rate increases designed to cover overall cost trends and the HIP Fee
reinstatement for 2018, as well as membership growth in our Medicare business as a result of our acquisitions of America’s 1st
Choice and HealthSun and organic growth in existing markets. These increases in premiums were partially offset by a premium
revenue decrease resulting from our reduced participation in ACA-compliant Individual markets in various states and a membership
decline in our fully-insured Local Group business. The increase in administrative fees and other revenue primarily resulted from
rate increases and membership growth in our self-funded Local Group and National Accounts businesses.
-51-
Net investment income increased primarily due to higher dividend yields on equity securities and higher income from
alternative investments.
We recognized net realized losses on financial instruments in 2018 compared to net realized gains on financial instruments in
2017. This change was primarily due to the recognition of changes in the fair values of equity securities from the adoption of
Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-01, Financial Instruments - Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, or ASU 2016-01. For additional information related to the adoption of ASU 2016-01,
see Note 2, “Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies - Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance,” of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The change was further due to
an increase in net realized losses on sales of fixed maturity securities, partially offset by increases in net realized gains on sales of
equity securities and net realized gains on derivative financial instruments.
Benefit expense decreased primarily due to our reduced participation in ACA-compliant Individual marketplaces in various
states. The decrease was partially offset by increased expenses related to membership growth in our Medicare business primarily as
a result of our America’s 1st Choice and HealthSun acquisitions and organic growth in existing markets. The decrease was further
offset by higher medical costs in our Medicaid business.
Our benefit expense ratio decreased primarily due to the increase in premiums to cover the HIP Fee reinstatement for 2018
and, to a lesser extent, improved medical cost performance in our Commercial & Specialty Business segment. The decrease was
partially offset by higher medical costs in our Medicaid business.
Selling, general and administrative expense increased primarily due to the reinstatement of the HIP Fee for 2018. The increase
was further attributable to an increase in spend to drive future growth. These increases were partially offset by the recognition of a
guaranty fund assessment during 2017 related to the liquidation order of Penn Treaty Network American Insurance Company and
its subsidiary American Network Insurance Company, or collectively Penn Treaty, and a decrease in performance-based incentive
compensation.
Our selling, general and administrative expense ratio increased primarily due to the reinstatement of the HIP Fee for 2018. The
increase in the ratio was further attributable to an increase in spend to drive future growth. These increases were partially offset by
the growth in operating revenue, the impact of the Penn Treaty guaranty fund assessment in 2017 and a decrease in performance-
based incentive compensation.
Other expense decreased primarily due to lower debt extinguishment losses. For more information on our debt, see Note 12,
“Debt” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The
decrease was partially offset by increased amortization of intangible assets acquired with the HealthSun and America’s 1st Choice
acquisitions.
Our income tax expense and effective tax rate increased primarily due to the non-recurring income tax benefit we recognized
in 2017 related to the remeasurement of our deferred tax balance pursuant to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and the reinstatement of the
non-tax deductible HIP Fee for 2018. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in income tax expense due to the effect of the
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which reduced the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018.
Our net income as a percentage of total revenue decreased as a result of all factors discussed above.
Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2016
Total operating revenue increased, resulting primarily from higher premiums, and, to a lesser extent, increased administrative
fees and other revenue. Higher premiums were due, in part, to rate increases across our businesses designed to cover overall cost
trends. The increase was further attributable to membership growth in our Medicare Advantage and Large Group product offerings.
The increase in premiums was partially offset by the impact of the HIP Fee suspension for 2017, as we did not price affected
products to cover any HIP Fee related expense in 2017. Additionally declines in both our non-ACA-compliant and ACA-compliant
off-exchange Individual businesses, lower favorable adjustments to prior year estimates for the ACA risk adjustment premium
stabilization program and declines in our National Accounts business partially offset the overall increase in premiums. The increase
in administrative fees and other revenue primarily resulted from membership growth in our self-funded Large Group business.
-52-
Net investment income increased primarily due to higher income from alternative investments and higher investment yields on
fixed maturity securities, partially offset by lower dividend yields on equity securities.
Net realized gains on financial instruments increased primarily due to a decrease in net realized losses on derivative financial
instruments and an increase in net realized gains on sales of fixed maturity securities, partially offset by a decrease in net realized
gains on sales of equity securities.
Other-than-temporary impairment losses on investments decreased primarily due to a decrease in impairment losses on fixed
maturity securities.
Benefit expense increased primarily due to increased costs as a result of overall cost trends across our businesses. The increase
was further attributable to membership growth in our Medicare Advantage and Large Group business product offerings. These
increases were partially offset by the impact of membership declines in both our non-ACA-compliant and ACA-compliant off-
exchange Individual product offerings.
Our benefit expense ratio increased in 2017. The increase in the ratio was largely driven by the loss of revenue associated with
the HIP Fee suspension for 2017, higher medical cost experience in our Medicare business and adjustments to prior year estimates
for the ACA risk adjustment premium stabilization program. The increase in the ratio was partially offset by improved medical cost
experience in our Individual business.
Our selling, general and administrative expense increased due, in part, to an increase in spend to support our growth initiatives,
the recognition of a guaranty fund assessment related to the liquidation order of Penn Treaty, an increase in performance-based
incentive compensation and a legal settlement accrual related to settlement of the 2015 cyber attack class action litigation. For
additional information regarding the cyber attack and related settlement, see Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies -
Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings - Cyber Attack Regulatory Proceedings and Litigation,” of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These increases were partially offset by lower
ACA fees, primarily as a result of the suspension of the HIP Fee for 2017 and, to a lesser extent, the expiration of the fees for the
ACA temporary reinsurance premium stabilization program that ended on December 31, 2016. The increases were further offset by
lower selling, general and administrative costs related to expense efficiency initiatives and lower transaction costs related to the
terminated Cigna Merger Agreement.
Our selling, general and administrative expense ratio decreased due, in part, to the lower ACA fees discussed above, lower
selling, general and administrative costs related to expense efficiency initiatives and growth in operating revenue. These decreases
were partially offset by an increase in spend to support our growth initiatives, the impact of the Penn Treaty guaranty fund
assessment, an increase in performance-based incentive compensation and the accrual related to the settlement of the 2015 cyber
attack class action litigation.
Other expense increased primarily due to losses on extinguishment of debt. For more information on our debt, see Note 12,
“Debt” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Income tax expense decreased primarily due to the effect of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the suspension of the non-tax
deductible HIP Fee for 2017 and the favorable impact of our recognition of tax benefits for prior acquisition costs incurred related
to the terminated Cigna Merger Agreement. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized a non-recurring income tax
benefit related to the remeasurement of our deferred tax balance pursuant to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. For the year ended
December 31, 2016, we recognized additional income tax expense related to the HIP Fee. The decrease in income tax expense was
further due to the recognition of excess tax benefits during the year ended December 31, 2017 from the adoption of Accounting
Standards Update No. 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based
Payment Accounting, or ASU 2016-09. For additional information related to the adoption of ASU 2016-09, see Note 2, “Basis of
Presentation of Significant Accounting Policies - Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2016,
we recognized additional California deferred state tax expense resulting from specific California legislation related to Managed
Care Organizations that did not recur in 2017.
Our effective tax rate decreased primarily due to the effect of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the suspension of the HIP Fee in
2017, the deduction of the prior acquisition costs incurred related to the terminated Cigna Merger Agreement, the excess tax
benefits from the adoption of ASU 2016-09 and the additional 2016 California deferred state tax expense, discussed above.
-53-
Our net income as a percentage of total revenue increased as a result of all factors discussed above. 
Reportable Segments Results of Operations
We use operating gain to evaluate the performance of our reportable segments, which are Commercial & Specialty Business,
Government Business, and Other. Operating gain, which is a non-GAAP measure, is calculated as total operating revenue less
benefit expense and selling, general and administrative expense. It does not include net investment income, net realized (losses)
gains on financial instruments, other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in income, interest expense, amortization of
other intangible assets, loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt or income taxes, as these items are managed in a corporate shared
service environment and are not the responsibility of operating segment management.
The discussion of segment results for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 presented below are based on
operating gain, as described above, and operating margin, which is calculated as operating gain divided by operating revenue. Our
definitions of operating gain and operating margin may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other
companies. For additional information, including a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures, see Note 19, “Segment
Information,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Our Commercial & Specialty Business, Government Business, and Other segments’ summarized results of operations for the
years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 are as follows:
      Change
  Years Ended December  31 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016
  2018 2017 2 2016 2$ % $ %
Commer cial & Specialty
Business      
Operating revenue $ 35,782 $ 40,363  $ 38,347 $(4,581 ) (11.3)% $ 2,016 5.3 %
Operating gain $ 3,629 $ 2,847  $ 3,148 $ 782 27.5 % $ (301) (9.6)%
Operating mar gin 10.1% 7.1% 8.2% 300bp  (110)bp
Government Business      
Operating revenue $ 55,567 $ 48,702  $ 45,850 $ 6,865 14.1 % $ 2,852 6.2 %
Operating gain $ 1,895 $ 1,445  $ 1,827 $ 450 31.1 % $ (382) (20.9 )%
Operating mar gin 3.4% 3.0% 4.0% 40bp  (100)bp
Other      
Operating revenue $ (8)$ (4) $ (3)$ (4) 100.0  % $ (1) 33.3 %
Operating loss1$ (98)$ (117) $ (174)$ 19 (16.2 )% $ 57 (32.8 )%
1 Primarily a result of changes in unallocated corporate expenses.
2 Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2017
Commercial & Specialty Business
Operating revenue decreased primarily due to a decrease in our Individual business membership resulting from our reduced
participation in ACA-compliant marketplaces in various states and, to a lesser extent, membership declines in our Local Group
fully-insured products. The decrease was partially offset by premium rate increases designed to cover overall cost trends and the
impact of the HIP Fee reinstatement for 2018. The decrease was further offset by an increase in administrative fees and other
revenue due to rate increases and membership growth in our self-funded Large Group and National Accounts businesses.
Operating gain increased due to improved medical cost performance, the impact of the recognition of the Penn Treaty guaranty
fund assessment in 2017, and a decrease in certain selling, general and administrative expenses.
-54-
Government Business
Operating revenue increased primarily due to membership growth in our Medicare business as a result of our acquisitions of
America’s 1st Choice and HealthSun and organic growth in existing markets. The increase was further due to premium rate
increases designed to cover overall cost trends and the HIP Fee reinstatement for 2018.
Operating gain increased primarily due to the membership growth in our Medicare business described in the preceding
paragraph. The increase was further due to retroactive premium adjustments recognized in various Medicaid markets and the
impact of the HIP Fee reinstatement. These increases were partially offset by higher medical costs in our Medicaid business.
Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2016
Commercial & Specialty Business
Operating revenue increased primarily due to premium rate increases designed to cover overall cost trends in our Individual
and Local Group businesses. The increase was further attributable to membership growth in our fully-insured Large Group business
and an increase in administrative fees and other revenue. The increase in administrative fees and other revenue was primarily due to
membership growth in our self-insured Large Group business. The increase in operating revenue was partially offset by the impact
of the HIP Fee suspension for 2017, declines in membership in our non-ACA-compliant and ACA-compliant off-exchange
Individual businesses, lower favorable adjustments to prior year estimates for the ACA risk adjustment premium stabilization
program and declines in membership in our National Accounts business.
Operating gain decreased primarily due to the recognition of the guaranty fund assessment related to the Penn Treaty
liquidation, an increase in spend to support our growth initiatives and adjustments to prior year estimates for the ACA risk
adjustment premium stabilization program. The decrease in operating gain was further due to an increase in performance-based
incentive compensation and the settlement accrual for the class action litigation related to the 2015 cyber attack. The decrease in
operating gain was partially offset by lower selling, general and administrative costs related to expense efficiency initiatives and
fixed costs leverage from higher operating revenue. The decrease in operating gain was further offset by improved medical cost
experience in our Individual businesses.
Government Business
Operating revenue increased primarily due to premium rate increases designed to cover overall cost trends in our Medicaid and
Medicare business. The increase was further due to new Medicaid business expansions and membership growth in our Medicare
Advantage business. These increases were partially offset by the impact of the HIP Fee suspension for 2017 and Medicaid
membership declines resulting from membership reverification processes and the impact of a new entrant in an existing market.
Operating gain decreased primarily due to the impact of the HIP Fee suspension for 2017 and higher medical cost experience
in our Medicare business. The decrease was further due to an increase in performance-based incentive compensation and an
increase in spend to support our growth initiatives. These decreases were partially offset by lower selling, general and
administrative costs related to expense efficiency initiatives and fixed costs leverage from higher operating revenue.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. Application of GAAP requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes
and within this MD&A. We consider our most important accounting policies that require significant estimates and management
judgment to be those policies with respect to liabilities for medical claims payable, income taxes, goodwill and other intangible
assets, investments and retirement benefits, which are discussed below. Our other significant accounting policies are summarized in
Note 2, “Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We continually evaluate the accounting policies and estimates used to prepare the consolidated financial statements. In general,
our estimates are based on historical experience, evaluation of current trends, information from third-party
-55-
professionals and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the known facts and circumstances. Estimates
can require a significant amount of judgment and a different set of assumptions could result in material changes to our reported
results.
Medical Claims Payable
The most subjective accounting estimate in our consolidated financial statements is our liability for medical claims payable. At
December 31, 2018, this liability was $7,454 and represented 17% of our total consolidated liabilities. We record this liability and
the corresponding benefit expense for incurred but not paid claims, including the estimated costs of processing such claims.
Incurred but not paid claims include (1) an estimate for claims that are incurred but not reported, as well as claims reported to us
but not yet processed through our systems, which approximated 98%, or $7,300, of our total medical claims liability as of
December 31, 2018; and (2) claims reported to us and processed through our systems but not yet paid, which approximated 2%, or
$154, of the total medical claims payable as of December 31, 2018. The level of claims payable processed through our systems but
not yet paid may fluctuate from one period-end to the next, from approximately 1% to 5% of our total medical claims liability, due
to timing of when claim payments are made.
Liabilities for both claims incurred but not reported and reported but not yet processed through our systems are determined in
the aggregate, employing actuarial methods that are commonly used by health insurance actuaries and meet Actuarial Standards of
Practice. Actuarial Standards of Practice require that the claim liabilities be appropriate under moderately adverse circumstances.
We determine the amount of the liability for incurred but not paid claims by following a detailed actuarial process that uses both
historical claim payment patterns as well as emerging medical cost trends to project our best estimate of claim liabilities. Under this
process, historical paid claims data is formatted into “claim triangles,” which compare claim incurred dates to the dates of claim
payments. This information is analyzed to create “completion factors” that represent the average percentage of total incurred claims
that have been paid through a given date after being incurred. Completion factors are applied to claims paid through the period-end
date to estimate the ultimate claim expense incurred for the period. Actuarial estimates of incurred but not paid claim liabilities are
then determined by subtracting the actual paid claims from the estimate of the ultimate incurred claims. 
For the most recent incurred months (typically the most recent two months), the percentage of claims paid for claims incurred
in those months is generally low. This makes the completion factor methodology less reliable for such months. Therefore, incurred
claims for recent months are not projected from historical completion and payment patterns; rather, they are projected by estimating
the claims expense for those months based on recent claims expense levels and healthcare trend levels, or “trend factors.”
Because the reserve methodology is based upon historical information, it must be adjusted for known or suspected operational
and environmental changes. These adjustments are made by our actuaries based on their knowledge and their estimate of emerging
impacts to benefit costs and payment speed. Circumstances to be considered in developing our best estimate of reserves include
changes in utilization levels, unit costs, mix of business, benefit plan designs, provider reimbursement levels, processing system
conversions and changes, claim inventory levels, claim processing patterns, claim submission patterns and operational changes
resulting from business combinations. A comparison of prior period liabilities to re-estimated claim liabilities based on subsequent
claims development is also considered in making the liability determination. In our comparison to prior periods, the methods and
assumptions are not changed as reserves are recalculated; rather, the availability of additional paid claims information drives
changes in the re-estimate of the unpaid claim liability. To the extent appropriate, changes in such development are recorded as a
change to current period benefit expense.
We regularly review and set assumptions regarding cost trends and utilization when initially establishing claim liabilities. We
continually monitor and adjust the claims liability and benefit expense based on subsequent paid claims activity. If it is determined
that our assumptions regarding cost trends and utilization are materially different than actual results, our income statement and
financial position could be impacted in future periods. Adjustments of prior year estimates may result in additional benefit expense
or a reduction of benefit expense in the period an adjustment is made. Further, due to the considerable variability of healthcare
costs, adjustments to claim liabilities occur each period and are sometimes significant as compared to the net income recorded in
that period. Prior period development is recognized immediately upon the actuary’s judgment that a portion of the prior period
liability is no longer needed or that an additional liability should have been accrued. That determination is made when sufficient
information is available to ascertain that the re-estimate of the liability is reasonable.
-56-
While there are many factors that are used as a part of the estimation of our medical claims payable liability, the two key
assumptions having the most significant impact on our incurred but not paid claims liability as of December 31, 2018 were the
completion and trend factors. As discussed above, these two key assumptions can be influenced by utilization levels, unit costs, mix
of business, benefit plan designs, provider reimbursement levels, processing system conversions and changes, claim inventory
levels, claim processing patterns, claim submission patterns and operational changes resulting from business combinations.
There is variation in the reasonable choice of completion factors by duration for durations of three months through twelve
months where the completion factors have the most significant impact. As previously discussed, completion factors tend to be less
reliable for the most recent months and therefore are not specifically utilized for months one and two. In our analysis for the claim
liabilities at December 31, 2018, the variability in months three to five was estimated to be between 40 and 90 basis points, while
months six through twelve have much lower estimated variability ranging from 0 to 30 basis points.
The difference in completion factor assumptions, assuming moderately adverse experience, results in variability of 3%, or
approximately $213, in the December 31, 2018 incurred but not paid claims liability, depending on the completion factors chosen.
It is important to note that the completion factor methodology inherently assumes that historical completion rates will be reflective
of the current period. However, it is possible that the actual completion rates for the current period will develop differently from
historical patterns and therefore could fall outside the possible variations described herein.
The other major assumption used in the establishment of the December 31, 2018 incurred but not paid claim liability was the
trend factors. In our analysis for the period ended December 31, 2018, there was a 300 basis point differential in the high and low
trend factors assuming moderately adverse experience. This range of trend factors would imply variability of 5%, or approximately
$408, in the incurred but not paid claims liability, depending upon the trend factors used. Because historical trend factors are often
not representative of current claim trends, the trend experience for the most recent six to nine months, plus knowledge of recent
events likely affecting current trends, have been taken into consideration in establishing the incurred but not paid claims liability at
December 31, 2018. 
See Note 11, “Medical Claims Payable,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K, for a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balance for medical claims payable for the years
ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. Components of the total incurred claims for each year include amounts accrued for
current year estimated claims expense as well as adjustments to prior year estimated accruals. In Note 11, “Medical Claims
Payable,” the line labeled “Net incurred medical claims: Prior years redundancies” accounts for those adjustments made to prior
year estimates. The impact of any reduction of “Net incurred medical claims: Prior years redundancies” may be offset as we
establish the estimate of “Net incurred medical claims: Current year.” Our reserving practice is to consistently recognize the
actuarial best estimate of our ultimate liability for our claims. When we recognize a release of the redundancy, we disclose the
amount that is not in the ordinary course of business, if material.  
The ratio of current year medical claims paid as a percent of current year net medical claims incurred was 90.2% for 2018,
89.4% for 2017 and 89.2% for 2016. This ratio serves as an indicator of claims processing speed whereby claims were processed
slightly faster during 2018 than in both 2017 and 2016.
We calculate the percentage of prior year redundancies in the current year as a percent of prior year net incurred claims payable
less prior year redundancies in the current year in order to demonstrate the development of the prior year reserves. For the year
ended December 31, 2018, this metric was 13.7%, largely driven by favorable trend factor development at the end of 2017 as well
as favorable completion factor development from 2017. For the year ended December 31, 2017, this metric was 18.9%, largely
driven by favorable trend factor development at the end of 2016 as well as favorable completion factor development from 2016.
For the year ended December 31, 2016, this metric was 14.2%, largely driven by favorable trend factor development at the end of
2015.
We calculate the percentage of prior year redundancies in the current year as a percent of prior year net incurred medical
claims to indicate the percentage of redundancy included in the preceding year calculation of current year net incurred medical
claims. We believe this calculation supports the reasonableness of our prior year estimate of incurred medical claims and the
consistency in our methodology. For the year ended December 31, 2018, this metric was 1.3%, which was calculated using the
redundancy of $930. This metric was 1.8% for 2017 and 1.4% for 2016. These metrics demonstrate a generally consistent level of
reserve conservatism.
-57-
The following table shows the variance between total net incurred medical claims as reported in Note 11, “Medical Claims
Payable,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for
each of 2017 and 2016 and the incurred claims for such years had it been determined retrospectively (computed as the difference
between “net incurred medical claims – current year” for the year shown and “net incurred medical claims – prior years
redundancies” for the immediately following year):
 Years Ended December 31
 2017 2016
Total net incurred medical claims, as reported $ 69,244 $ 64,033
Retrospective basis, as described above 69,447 63,735
Variance $ (203) $ 298
Variance to total net incurred medical claims, as reported (0.3)% 0.5%
Given that our business is primarily short tailed (which means that medical claims are generally paid within twelve months of
the member receiving service from the provider), the variance to total net incurred medical claims, as reported above, is used to
assess the reasonableness of our estimate of ultimate incurred medical claims for a given calendar year with the benefit of one year
of experience. We expect that substantially all of the development of the 2018 estimate of medical claims payable will be known
during 2019.
The 2017 variance to total net incurred medical claims, as reported of (0.3)% was less than the 2016 percentage of 0.5%. The
higher 2016 variance was driven by a similar level of prior year redundancies in 2017 associated with 2016 claim payments to the
prior year redundancies in 2016 associated with 2015 claims payments. Prior year redundancies in 2018 associated with 2017 claim
payments were lower by comparison to the previous year, thus creating a smaller 2017 variance.
Income Taxes
We account for income taxes in accordance with FASB guidance, which requires, among other things, the separate recognition
of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. Such deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities represent the tax effect of
temporary differences between financial reporting and tax reporting measured at tax rates enacted at the time the deferred tax asset
or liability is recorded. A valuation allowance must be established for deferred tax assets if it is “more likely than not” that all or a
portion may be unrealized. Our judgment is required in determining an appropriate valuation allowance.
At each financial reporting date, we assess the adequacy of the valuation allowance by evaluating each of our deferred tax
assets based on the following:
•the types of temporary differences that created the deferred tax asset;
•the amount of taxes paid in prior periods and available for a carry-back claim;
•the tax rate at which the deferred tax assets will likely be utilized at in the future;
•the forecasted future taxable income, and therefore, likely future deduction of the deferred tax item; and
•any significant other issues impacting the likely realization of the benefit of the temporary differences.
We, like other companies, frequently face challenges from tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges
include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions that we have taken on our tax returns. In evaluating any additional
tax liability associated with various positions taken in our tax return filings, we record additional liabilities for potential adverse tax
outcomes. Based on our evaluation of our tax positions, we believe we have appropriately accrued for uncertain tax benefits, as
required by the guidance. To the extent we prevail in matters we have accrued for, our future effective tax rate would be reduced
and net income would increase. If we are required to pay more than accrued, our future effective tax rate would increase and net
income would decrease. Our effective tax rate and net income in any given future period could be materially impacted.
-58-
In the ordinary course of business, we are regularly audited by federal and other tax authorities, and from time to time, these
audits result in proposed assessments. We believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and we intend to defend our
positions vigorously through the federal, state and local appeals processes. We believe we have adequately provided for any
reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters. Accordingly, although their ultimate resolution may require additional tax
payments, we do not anticipate any material impact on our results of operations or financial condition from these matters.
For additional information, see Note 7, “Income Taxes,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II,
Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Our consolidated goodwill at December 31, 2018 was $20,504 and other intangible assets were $9,007. The sum of goodwill
and other intangible assets represented 41.2% of our total consolidated assets and 103.4% of our consolidated shareholders’ equity
at December 31, 2018.
We follow FASB guidance for business combinations and goodwill and other intangible assets, which specifies the types of
acquired intangible assets that are required to be recognized and reported separately from goodwill. Under the guidance, goodwill
and other intangible assets (with indefinite lives) are not amortized but are tested for impairment at least annually. Furthermore,
goodwill and other intangible assets are allocated to reporting units for purposes of the annual impairment test. Our impairment
tests require us to make assumptions and judgments regarding the estimated fair value of our reporting units, which include
goodwill and other intangible assets. In addition, certain other intangible assets with indefinite lives, such as trademarks, are also
tested separately.
We complete our annual impairment tests of existing goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives during the fourth
quarter of each year. These tests involve the use of estimates related to the fair value of goodwill at the reporting unit level and
other intangible assets with indefinite lives, and require a significant degree of management judgment and the use of subjective
assumptions. Certain interim impairment tests are also performed when potential impairment indicators exist or changes in our
business or other triggering events occur. We have the option of first performing a qualitative assessment for each reporting unit to
determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount which is an
indication that our goodwill may be impaired. These qualitative impairment tests include assessing events and factors that could
affect the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets. Our procedures include assessing our financial performance,
macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, various asset specific factors and entity specific events. If we
determine that a reporting unit’s goodwill may be impaired after utilizing these qualitative impairment analysis procedures, we are
required to perform a quantitative impairment test.
Our quantitative impairment test utilizes the projected income and market valuation approaches for goodwill and the projected
income approach for our indefinite lived intangible assets. Use of the projected income and market valuation approaches for our
goodwill impairment test reflects our view that both valuation methodologies provide a reasonable estimate of fair value. The
projected income approach is developed using assumptions about future revenue, expenses and net income derived from our
internal planning process. These estimated future cash flows are then discounted. Our assumed discount rate is based on our
industry’s weighted-average cost of capital. Market valuations are based on observed multiples of certain measures including
revenue, EBITDA, and book value of invested capital (debt and equity) and include market comparisons to publicly traded
companies in our industry.
We did not incur any impairment losses as a result of our 2018 annual impairment tests, as the estimated fair values of our
reporting units were substantially in excess of the carrying values as of December 31, 2018. Additionally, we do not believe that the
estimated fair values of our reporting units are at risk of becoming impaired in the next twelve months.
While we believe we have appropriately allocated the purchase price of our acquisitions, this allocation requires many
assumptions to be made regarding the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired. In addition, estimated fair values developed based
on our assumptions and judgments might be significantly different if other reasonable assumptions and estimates were to be used. If
estimated fair values are less than the carrying values of goodwill and other intangibles with indefinite lives in future annual
impairment tests, or if significant impairment indicators are noted relative to other intangible assets subject to amortization, we may
be required to record impairment losses against future income.
-59-
For additional information, see Note 3, “Business Acquisitions” and Note 9, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Investments
Current and long-term marketable investment securities were $18,705 at December 31, 2018 and represented 26.1% of our
total consolidated assets at December 31, 2018. We classify fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio as “available-for-
sale” or “trading” and report those securities at fair value. Certain fixed maturity securities are available to support current
operations and, accordingly, we classify such investments as current assets without regard to their contractual maturity. Investments
used to satisfy contractual, regulatory or other requirements are classified as long-term, without regard to contractual maturity.
We review fixed maturity investment securities to determine if declines in fair value below cost are other-than-temporary. This
review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. We conduct this review on a quarterly basis, using both qualitative and
quantitative factors, to determine whether a decline in value is other-than-temporary. Such factors considered include the length of
time and the extent to which a security’s market value has been less than its cost, the reasons for the decline in value (i.e., credit
event compared to liquidity, general credit spread widening, currency exchange rate or interest rate factors), financial condition and
near term prospects of the issuer, including the credit ratings and changes in the credit ratings of the issuer, recommendations of
investment advisors, and forecasts of economic, market or industry trends.
FASB other-than-temporary impairment, or OTTI, guidance applies to fixed maturity securities and provides guidance on the
recognition, presentation of, and disclosures for OTTIs. If a fixed maturity security is in an unrealized loss position and we have the
intent to sell the fixed maturity security, or it is more likely than not that we will have to sell the fixed maturity security before
recovery of its amortized cost basis, the decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary and is presented within the other-
than-temporary impairment losses recognized in the income line item on our consolidated statements of income. For impaired fixed
maturity securities that we do not intend to sell or it is more likely than not that we will not have to sell such securities, but we
expect that we will not fully recover the amortized cost basis, the credit component of the OTTI is presented within the other-than-
temporary impairment losses recognized in the income line item on our consolidated statements of income and the non-credit
component of the OTTI is recognized in other comprehensive income. Furthermore, unrealized losses entirely caused by non-credit
related factors related to fixed maturity securities for which we expect to fully recover the amortized cost basis continue to be
recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss. 
The credit component of an OTTI is determined primarily by comparing the net present value of projected future cash flows
with the amortized cost basis of the fixed maturity security. The net present value is calculated by discounting our best estimate of
projected future cash flows at the effective interest rate implicit in the fixed maturity security at the date of acquisition. For
mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, cash flow estimates are based on assumptions regarding the underlying collateral,
including prepayment speeds, vintage, type of underlying asset, geographic concentrations, default rates, recoveries and changes in
value. For all other securities, cash flow estimates are driven by assumptions regarding probability of default, including changes in
credit ratings and estimates regarding timing and amount of recoveries associated with a default.
We have a committee of accounting and investment associates and management that is responsible for managing the
impairment review process. We believe we have adequately reviewed our investment securities for impairment and that our
investment securities are carried at fair value. However, over time, the economic and market environment may provide additional
insight regarding the fair value of certain securities, which could change our judgment regarding impairment. This could result in
OTTI losses on investments being charged against future income. Given the uncertainty of future market conditions, as well as the
significant judgments involved, there is continuing risk that declines in fair value may occur and material OTTI losses on
investments may be recorded in future periods.
In addition to marketable investment securities, we held additional long-term investments of $3,726, or 5.2% of total
consolidated assets, at December 31, 2018. These long-term investments consisted primarily of certain other equity investments,
the cash surrender value of corporate-owned life insurance policies and real estate. Due to their less liquid nature, these investments
are classified as long-term.
-60-
Through our investing activities, we are exposed to financial market risks, including those resulting from changes in interest
rates and changes in equity market valuations. We manage market risks through our investment policy, which establishes credit
quality limits and limits on investments in individual issuers. Ineffective management of these risks could have an impact on our
future results of operations and financial condition. Our investment portfolio includes fixed maturity securities with a fair value of
$17,179 at December 31, 2018. The weighted-average credit rating of these securities was “A” as of December 31, 2018. Included
in this balance are investments in fixed maturity securities of states, municipalities and political subdivisions of $947 that are
guaranteed by third parties. With the exception of seven securities with a fair value of $16, these securities are all investment-grade
and carry a weighted-average credit rating of “A” as of December 31, 2018. The securities are guaranteed by a number of different
guarantors, and we do not have any material exposure to any single guarantor, neither indirectly through the guarantees, nor
directly through investment in the guarantor. Further, due to the high underlying credit rating of the issuers, the weighted-average
credit rating of the fixed maturity securities without a guarantee, for which such information is available, was “A” as of
December 31, 2018.
Fair values of fixed maturity and equity securities are based on quoted market prices, where available. These fair values are
obtained primarily from third-party pricing services, which generally use Level I or Level II inputs for the determination of fair
value in accordance with FASB guidance for fair value measurements and disclosures. We have controls in place to review the
pricing services’ qualifications and procedures used to determine fair values. In addition, we periodically review the pricing
services’ pricing methodologies, data sources and pricing inputs to ensure the fair values obtained are reasonable.
We obtain quoted market prices for each security from the pricing services, which are derived through recently reported trades
for identical or similar securities, making adjustments through the reporting date based upon available market observable
information. For securities not actively traded, the pricing services may use quoted market prices of comparable instruments or
discounted cash flow analyses, incorporating inputs that are currently observable in the markets for similar securities. Inputs that
are often used in these valuation methodologies include, but are not limited to, broker quotes, benchmark yields, credit spreads,
default rates and prepayment speeds. As we are responsible for the determination of fair value, we perform analysis on the prices
received from the pricing services to determine whether the prices are reasonable estimates of fair value. Our analysis includes
procedures such as a review of month-to-month price fluctuations and price comparisons to secondary pricing services. There were
no adjustments to quoted market prices obtained from the pricing services during the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.
In certain circumstances, it may not be possible to derive pricing model inputs from observable market activity, and therefore,
such inputs are estimated internally. Such securities are designated Level III in accordance with FASB guidance. Securities
designated Level III at December 31, 2018 totaled $623 and represented approximately 2.9% of our total assets measured at fair
value on a recurring basis. Our Level III securities primarily consisted of certain corporate securities and equity securities for which
observable inputs were not always available and the fair values of these securities were estimated using internal estimates for inputs
including, but not limited to, prepayment speeds, credit spreads, default rates and benchmark yields.
For additional information, see Part II, Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” and Note 2,
“Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies,” Note 4, “Investments,” and Note 6, “Fair Value,” of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Retirement Benefits
Pension Benefits
We sponsor defined benefit pension plans for some of our employees. These plans are accounted for in accordance with FASB
guidance for retirement benefits, which requires that amounts recognized in financial statements be determined on an actuarial
basis. As permitted by the guidance, we calculate the value of plan assets as described below. Further, the difference between our
expected rate of return and the actual performance of plan assets, as well as certain changes in pension liabilities, are amortized
over future periods. 
An important factor in determining our pension expense is the assumption for expected long-term return on plan assets. As of
our December 31, 2018 measurement date, we selected a weighted-average long-term rate of return on plan assets of 7.44%. We
use a total portfolio return analysis in the development of our assumption. Factors such as past market performance, the long-term
relationship between fixed maturity and equity securities, interest rates, inflation and asset
-61-
allocations are considered in the assumption. The assumption includes an estimate of the additional return expected from active
management of the investment portfolio. Peer data and an average of historical returns are also reviewed for appropriateness of the
selected assumption. We believe our assumption of future returns is reasonable. However, if we lower our expected long-term
return on plan assets, future contributions to the pension plan and pension expense would likely increase.
This assumed long-term rate of return on assets is applied to a calculated value of plan assets, which recognizes changes in the
fair value of plan assets in a systematic manner over three years, producing the expected return on plan assets that is included in the
determination of pension expense. We apply a corridor approach to amortize unrecognized actuarial gains or losses. Under this
approach, only accumulated net actuarial gains or losses in excess of 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the
fair value of plan assets are amortized over the average remaining service or lifetime of the workforce as a component of pension
expense. The net deferral of past asset gains or losses affects the calculated value of plan assets and, ultimately, future pension
expense. 
The discount rate reflects the current rate at which the pension liabilities could be effectively settled at the end of the year
based on our most recent measurement date. At the December 31, 2017 measurement date, we changed the discount rate setting
methodology from the single equivalent discount rate to the annual spot rate approach. Under the spot rate approach, individual
spot rates from a full yield curve of published rates are used to discount each plan’s cash flows to determine the plan’s obligation.
The spot rate approach produces a more precise measure of service and interest cost, and results in obligations that are equal at the
measurement date under both methods. At the December 31, 2018 measurement date, the weighted-average discount rate under the
annual spot rate approach was 4.15%, compared to 3.44% at the December 31, 2017 measurement date. The net effect of changes
in the discount rate, as well as the net effect of other changes in actuarial assumptions and experience, have been deferred and
amortized as a component of pension expense in accordance with FASB guidance.
In managing the plan assets, our objective is to be a responsible fiduciary while minimizing financial risk. Plan assets include a
diversified mix of investment grade fixed maturity securities, equity securities and alternative investments across a range of sectors
and levels of capitalization to maximize the long-term return for a prudent level of risk. In addition to producing a reasonable
return, the investment strategy seeks to minimize the volatility in our expense and cash flow.
Effective January 1, 2019, we curtailed the benefits under the Anthem Cash Balance Plan B pension plan. All grandfathered
participants will no longer have pay credits added to their accounts, but will continue to earn interest on existing account balances.
Participants will continue to earn years of pension service for vesting purposes.
Other Postretirement Benefits
We provide most associates with certain medical, vision and dental benefits upon retirement. We use various actuarial
assumptions, including a discount rate and the expected trend in healthcare costs, to estimate the costs and benefit obligations for
our retiree benefits.
At our December 31, 2018 measurement date, the selected discount rate for all plans was 4.04%, compared to a discount rate
of 3.42% at the December 31, 2017 measurement rate. We developed this rate using the annual spot rate approach as described
above.
The assumed healthcare cost trend rates used to measure the expected cost of pre-Medicare (those who are not currently
eligible for Medicare benefits) other benefits at our December 31, 2018 measurement date was 7.50% for 2019 with a gradual
decline to 4.50% by the year 2028. The assumed healthcare cost trend rates used to measure the expected cost of post-Medicare
(those who are currently eligible for Medicare benefits) other benefits at our December 31, 2018 measurement date was 6.00% for
2019 with a gradual decline to 4.50% by the year 2028. These estimated trend rates are subject to change in the future. The
healthcare cost trend rate assumption affects the amounts reported. For example, an increase in the assumed healthcare cost trend
rate of one percentage point would increase the postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2018 by $24 and would
increase service and interest costs by $1. Conversely, a decrease in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate of one percentage point
would decrease the postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2018 by $21 and would decrease service and interest costs
by $1. 
-62-
For additional information regarding our retirement benefits, see Note 10, “Retirement Benefits,” of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
New Accounting Pronouncements
For information regarding new accounting pronouncements that were issued or became effective during the year ended
December 31, 2018 that had, or are expected to have, a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or financial
statement disclosures, see the “Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance” and “Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted”
sections of Note 2, “Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Introduction
Our cash receipts result primarily from premiums, administrative fees and other revenue, investment income, proceeds from
the sale or maturity of our investment securities, proceeds from borrowings, and proceeds from the issuance of common stock
under our employee stock plans. Cash disbursements result mainly from claims payments, administrative expenses, taxes,
purchases of investment securities, interest expense, payments on borrowings, acquisitions, capital expenditures, repurchases of our
debt securities and common stock and the payment of cash dividends. Cash outflows fluctuate with the amount and timing of
settlement of these transactions. Any future decline in our profitability would likely have an unfavorable impact on our liquidity.
We manage our cash, investments and capital structure so we are able to meet the short-term and long-term obligations of our
business while maintaining financial flexibility and liquidity. We forecast, analyze and monitor our cash flows to enable investment
and financing within the overall constraints of our financial strategy.
A substantial portion of the assets held by our regulated subsidiaries are in the form of cash and cash equivalents and
investments. After considering expected cash flows from operating activities, we generally invest cash that exceeds our near term
obligations in longer term marketable fixed maturity securities to improve our overall investment income returns. Our investment
strategy is to make investments consistent with insurance statutes and other regulatory requirements, while preserving our asset
base. Our investments are generally available-for-sale to meet liquidity and other needs. Our subsidiaries pay out excess capital
annually in the form of dividends to their respective parent companies for general corporate use, as permitted by applicable
regulations.
The availability of financing in the form of debt or equity is influenced by many factors, including our profitability, operating
cash flows, debt levels, debt ratings, contractual restrictions, regulatory requirements and market conditions. The securities and
credit markets have in the past experienced higher than normal volatility, although current market conditions are more stable.
During recent years, the federal government and various governmental agencies have taken a number of steps to improve liquidity
in the financial markets and strengthen the regulation of the financial services market. In addition, governments around the world
have developed their own plans to provide liquidity and security in the credit markets and to ensure adequate capital in certain
financial institutions. 
We have a $2,500 commercial paper program. Should commercial paper issuance be unavailable, we have the ability to use a
combination of cash on hand and/or our $3,500 senior revolving credit facility to redeem any outstanding commercial paper upon
maturity. Additionally, we believe the lenders participating in our credit facility would be willing and able to provide financing in
accordance with their legal obligations. In addition to the $3,500 senior revolving credit facility, we estimate that we expect to
receive approximately $2,680 of dividends from our subsidiaries during 2019, which also provides further operating and financial
flexibility. 
-63-
A summary of our major sources and uses of cash and cash equivalents for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016
is as follows:
 Years Ended December  31  $ Change
 2018 2017 2016  2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016
Sour ces of Cash    
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 3,827 $ 4,185 $ 3,270  $ (358)$ 915
Proceeds from sales, maturities, calls and redemptions of
investments, net of purchases 1,929 — — 1,929 —
Issuance of common stock under Equity Units stock purchase
contracts 1,250 — — 1,250 —
Issuances of commercial paper and short- and long-term debt,
net of repayments — 3,653 — (3,653 ) 3,653
Issuances of common stock under employee stock plans 173 225 120  (52) 105
Changes in bank overdrafts — 71 513  (71) (442)
Other sources of cash, net 174 712 276  (538) 436
Total sources of cash 7,353 8,846 4,179  (1,493 ) 4,667
Uses of Cash:    
Purchases of investments, net of proceeds from sales, maturities,
calls and redemptions — (2,913 ) (114) 2,913 (2,799 )
Purchases of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (1,760 ) (2,080 ) — 320 (2,080 )
Repurchase and retirement of common stock (1,685 ) (1,998 ) — 313 (1,998 )
Purchases of property and equipment (1,208 ) (800) (584) (408) (216)
Repayments of commercial paper and short- and long-term debt,
net of issuances (1,086 ) — (153) (1,086 ) 153
Cash dividends (776) (705) (684) (71) (21)
Changes in bank overdrafts (210) — — (210) —
Other uses of cash, net (301) (820) (687) 519 (133)
Total uses of cash (7,026 ) (9,316 ) (2,222 ) 2,290 (7,094 )
Effect of foreign exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (2) 4 5 (6) (1)
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 325 $ (466)$ 1,962  $ 791 $ (2,428 )
Liquidity—Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2017
The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to increased spend to support growth initiatives and
the impact of membership declines due to our reduced participation in ACA-compliant Individual marketplaces, and to a lesser
extent, membership declines in our fully-insured Local Group business. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was
partially offset by cash receipts related to rate increases across our businesses designed to cover overall cost trends. The decrease
was further offset by lower income taxes paid in 2018 as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
Other significant changes in sources and uses of cash year-over-year included an increase in net proceeds from sales of
investments and the issuance of common stock under our Equity Units stock purchase contracts in 2018. These increases in cash
were partially offset by an increase in net repayments of commercial paper and short- and long-term debt and increased purchases
of property and equipment.
Liquidity— Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2016
The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily attributable to an increase in premium receipts as a result of
both rate increases across our businesses designed to cover overall cost trends and growth in membership. The increase in cash
flow was partially offset by an increase in claims payments due to higher medical cost experience and
-64-
growth in membership. The increase was further offset by an increase in spend to support our growth initiatives, the timing of
provider capitation payments for pass-through funding under the California Medicaid contract and the timing of certain state
Medicaid payments.
Other significant changes in sources and uses of cash year-over-year included an increase in net purchases of investments, cash
paid for acquisitions in 2017 and repurchases and retirement of common stock in 2017. These decreases in cash were partially
offset by the cash received from the issuances of commercial paper and short- and long-term debt, net of repayments.
Financial Condition
We maintained a strong financial condition and liquidity position, with consolidated cash, cash equivalents and investments in
fixed maturity and equity securities of $22,639 at December 31, 2018. Since December 31, 2017, total cash, cash equivalents and
investments in fixed maturity and equity securities decreased by $2,540 primarily due to cash used for acquisitions, purchases of
property and equipment, repurchases of our common stock, net repayments of commercial paper and short- and long-term debt and
cash dividends paid to shareholders. These decreases were partially offset by cash generated from operations and the proceeds
received from the issuance of our common stock under Equity Units stock purchase contracts.
Many of our subsidiaries are subject to various government regulations that restrict the timing and amount of dividends and
other distributions that may be paid to their respective parent companies. Certain accounting practices prescribed by insurance
regulatory authorities, or statutory accounting practices, differ from GAAP. Changes that occur in statutory accounting practices, if
any, could impact our subsidiaries’ future dividend capacity. In addition, we have agreed to certain undertakings to regulatory
authorities, including the requirement to maintain certain capital levels in certain of our subsidiaries.
At December 31, 2018, we held $1,949 of cash, cash equivalents and investments at the parent company, which are available
for general corporate use, including investment in our businesses, acquisitions, potential future common stock repurchases and
dividends to shareholders, repurchases of debt securities and debt and interest payments. 
Debt
Periodically, we access capital markets and issue debt, or Notes, for long-term borrowing purposes, for example, to refinance
debt, to finance acquisitions or for share repurchases. Certain of these Notes may have a call feature that allows us to redeem the
Notes at any time at our option and/or a put feature that allows a Note holder to redeem the Notes upon the occurrence of both a
change in control event and a downgrade of the Notes below an investment grade rating. For more information on our debt,
including redemptions and issuances, see Note 12, “Debt” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II,
Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We calculate our consolidated debt-to-capital ratio, a non-GAAP measure, from the amounts presented on our audited
consolidated balance sheets included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our debt-to-capital ratio is calculated
as total debt divided by total debt plus total shareholders’ equity. Total debt is the sum of short-term borrowings, current portion of
long-term debt, and long-term debt, less current portion. We believe our debt-to-capital ratio assists investors and rating agencies in
measuring our overall leverage and additional borrowing capacity. In addition, our bank covenants include a maximum debt-to-
capital ratio that we cannot and did not exceed. Our debt-to-capital ratio may not be comparable to similarly titled measures
reported by other companies. Our consolidated debt-to-capital ratio was 40.2% and 42.9% as of December 31, 2018 and 2017,
respectively.
Our senior debt is rated “A” by S&P Global, “BBB” by Fitch Ratings, Inc., “Baa2” by Moody’s Investor Service, Inc. and
“bbb+” by AM Best Company, Inc. We intend to maintain our senior debt investment grade ratings. If our credit ratings are
downgraded, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted by limitations on future
borrowings and a potential increase in our borrowing costs.
-65-
Future Sources and Uses of Liquidity
We have a shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission to register an unlimited amount of
any combination of debt or equity securities in one or more offerings. Specific information regarding terms and securities being
offered will be provided at the time of an offering. Proceeds from future offerings are expected to be used for general corporate
purposes, including, but not limited to, the repayment of debt, investments in or extensions of credit to our subsidiaries and the
financing of possible acquisitions or business expansions.
We have a senior revolving credit facility, or the Facility, with a group of lenders for general corporate purposes. The Facility
provides credit up to $3,500 and matures on August 25, 2020. Our ability to borrow under the Facility is subject to compliance with
certain covenants. There were no amounts outstanding under the Facility at December 31, 2018.
We have an authorized commercial paper program of up to $2,500, the proceeds of which may be used for general corporate
purposes. At December 31, 2018, we had $697 outstanding under our commercial paper program.
We are a member, through certain subsidiaries, of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis, the Federal Home Loan Bank
of Cincinnati and the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta, or collectively, the FHLBs. As a member we have the ability to obtain
short-term cash advances, subject to certain minimum collateral requirements. At December 31, 2018, we had $645 outstanding
under our short-term FHLB borrowings.
Through certain subsidiaries, we have entered into multiple 364-day lines of credit with separate lenders for general corporate
purposes. These lines of credit provide combined credit up to $600. Our ability to borrow under the lines of credit is subject to
compliance with certain covenants. At December 31, 2018 we had $500 outstanding under our 364-day lines of credit.
As discussed in “Financial Condition” above, many of our subsidiaries are subject to various government regulations that
restrict the timing and amount of dividends and other distributions that may be paid. Based upon these requirements, we currently
estimate that approximately $2,680 of dividends will be paid to the parent company during 2019. During 2018, we received $3,606
of dividends from our subsidiaries.
We regularly review the appropriate use of capital, including acquisitions, common stock and debt security repurchases and
dividends to shareholders. The declaration and payment of any dividends or repurchases of our common stock or debt is at the
discretion of our Board of Directors and depends upon our financial condition, results of operations, future liquidity needs,
regulatory and capital requirements and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors.
On January 29, 2019, our Audit Committee declared a quarterly cash dividend to shareholders of $0.80 per share on the
outstanding shares of our common stock. This quarterly dividend is payable on March 29, 2019 to the shareholders of record as of
March 18, 2019.
Under our Board of Directors’ authorization, we maintain a common stock repurchase program. As of December 31, 2018, we
had Board authorization of $5,493 to repurchase our common stock.
For additional information regarding our sources and uses of capital, see Note 4, “Investments,” Note 5 “Derivative Financial
Instruments,” Note 12 “Debt” and Note 14 “Capital Stock-Use of Capital-Dividends and Stock Repurchase Program” of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
-66-
Contractual Obligations and Commitments
Our estimated contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2018 are as follows:
   Payments Due by Period
 TotalLess than
1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 YearsMore than
5 Years
On-Balance Sheet:   
Debt1 $ 29,640$ 3,379$ 3,568$ 3,695$ 18,998
Other long-term liabilities2 1,374 30 574 472 298
Off-Balance Sheet:   
Purchase obligations33,849 1,261 1,151 1,345 92
Operating lease commitments 1,117 192 304 236 385
Investment commitments4873 263 281 35 294
Total contractual obligations and commitments $ 36,853$ 5,125$ 5,878$ 5,783$ 20,067
1 Includes estimated interest expense. 
2 Primarily consists of reserves for future policy benefits, projected other postretirement benefits, deferred compensation, supplemental
executive retirement plan liabilities and certain other miscellaneous long-term obligations. Estimated future payments for funded pension
benefits have been excluded from this table as we had no funding requirements under ERISA  at December 31, 2018  as a result of the value of
the assets in the plans.
3 Includes estimated payments for future services under contractual arrangements from third-party service contracts.
4 Includes unfunded capital commitments for alternative investments.
The above table does not contain $278 of gross liabilities for uncertain tax positions and interest for which we cannot
reasonably estimate the timing of the resolutions with the respective taxing authorities. For further information, see Note 7,
“Income Taxes,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
In addition to the contractual obligations and commitments discussed above, we have a variety of other contractual agreements
related to acquiring materials and services used in our operations. However, we do not believe these other agreements contain
material noncancelable commitments. 
We believe that funds from future operating cash flows, cash and investments and funds available under our Facility and/or
from public or private financing sources, will be sufficient for future operations and commitments, and for capital acquisitions and
other strategic transactions.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
We do not have any off-balance sheet derivative instruments, guarantee transactions, agreements or other contractual
arrangements or any indemnification agreements that will require funding in future periods. We have not transferred assets to an
unconsolidated entity that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support to such entity. We do not hold any variable interest in an
unconsolidated entity where such entity provides us with financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support.
Risk-Based Capital
Our regulated subsidiaries’ states of domicile have statutory risk-based capital, or RBC, requirements for health and other
insurance companies and HMOs largely based on the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, Risk-Based
Capital (RBC) For Health Organizations Model Act, or RBC Model Act. These RBC requirements are intended to measure capital
adequacy, taking into account the risk characteristics of an insurer’s investments and products. The NAIC sets forth the formula for
calculating the RBC requirements, which are designed to take into account asset risks, insurance risks, interest rate risks and other
relevant risks with respect to an individual insurance company’s business. In general, under the RBC Model Act, an insurance
company must submit a report of its RBC level to the state insurance department or insurance commissioner, as appropriate, at the
end of each calendar year. Our regulated subsidiaries’ respective RBC levels as
-67-
of December 31, 2018, which was the most recent date for which reporting was required, were in excess of all mandatory RBC
requirements. In addition to exceeding the RBC requirements, we are in compliance with the liquidity and capital requirements for
a licensee of the BCBSA and with the tangible net worth requirements applicable to certain of our California subsidiaries.
For additional information, see Note 21, “Statutory Information,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included
in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. 
(In Millions, Except Per Share Data or As Otherwise Stated Herein)
As a result of our investing and borrowing activities, we are exposed to financial market risks, including those resulting from
changes in interest rates and changes in market valuations. Potential impacts discussed below are based upon sensitivity analyses
performed on our financial position as of December 31, 2018. Actual results could vary from these estimates. Our primary
objectives with our investment portfolio are to provide safety and preservation of capital, sufficient liquidity to meet cash flow
requirements, the integration of investment strategy with the business operations and an attainment of a competitive after-tax total
return.
Investments
Our investment portfolio is exposed to three primary sources of risk: credit quality risk, interest rate risk and market valuation
risk.
The primary risks associated with our fixed maturity securities, which are classified as available-for-sale, are credit quality risk
and interest rate risk. Credit quality risk is defined as the risk of a credit event, such as a ratings downgrade or default, to an
individual fixed maturity security and the potential loss attributable to that event. Credit quality risk is managed through our
investment policy, which establishes credit quality limitations on the overall portfolio as well as diversification and percentage
limits on securities of individual issuers. The result is a well-diversified portfolio of fixed maturity securities, with an average credit
rating of approximately “A.” Interest rate risk is defined as the potential for economic losses on fixed maturity securities due to a
change in market interest rates. Our fixed maturity portfolio is invested primarily in U.S. government securities, corporate bonds,
asset-backed bonds, mortgage-related securities and municipal bonds, all of which have exposure to changes in the level of market
interest rates. Interest rate risk is managed by maintaining asset duration within a band based upon our liabilities, operating
performance and liquidity needs. Additionally, we have the capability of holding any security to maturity, which would allow us to
realize full par value.
Investments in fixed maturity securities include corporate securities which account for 46.2% of the total fixed maturity
securities at December 31, 2018 and are subject to credit/default risk. In a declining economic environment, corporate yields will
usually increase prompted by concern over the ability of corporations to make interest payments, thus causing a decrease in the
price of corporate securities, and the decline in value of the corporate fixed maturity portfolio. We manage this risk through
fundamental credit analysis, diversification of issuers and industries and an average credit rating of our corporate fixed maturity
portfolio of approximately “BBB.”
Market risk for fixed maturity securities is addressed by actively managing the duration, allocation and diversification of our
investment portfolio. We have evaluated the impact on the fixed maturity portfolio’s fair value considering an immediate 100 basis
point change in interest rates. A 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an approximate $733 decrease in fair value,
whereas a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would result in an approximate $723 increase in fair value. While we classify
our fixed maturity securities as “available-for-sale” for accounting purposes, we believe our cash flows and the duration of our
portfolio should allow us to hold securities to maturity, thereby avoiding the recognition of losses should interest rates rise
significantly.
Our equity portfolio is comprised of large capitalization and small capitalization domestic equities, foreign equities, exchange-
traded funds and index mutual funds. Our equity portfolio is subject to the volatility inherent in the stock market, driven by
concerns over economic conditions, earnings and sales growth, inflation, and consumer confidence. These systemic risks cannot be
managed through diversification alone. However, more routine risks, such as stock/industry specific risks, are managed by
investing in a diversified equity portfolio.
-68-
As of December 31, 2018, 8.2% of our investments were equity securities. An immediate 10% decrease in each equity
investment’s value, arising from market movement, would result in a fair value decrease of $153. Alternatively, an immediate 10%
increase in each equity investment’s value, attributable to the same factor, would result in a fair value increase of $153.
For additional information regarding our investments, see Note 4, “Investments,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Part II, Item 8 and “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Investments” within Part II, Item 7
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.
Long-Term Debt
Our total long-term debt at December 31, 2018 consists of senior unsecured notes, convertible debentures, commercial paper
and subordinated surplus notes by one of our insurance subsidiaries. At December 31, 2018, the carrying value and estimated fair
value of our long-term debt was $18,066 and $18,872, respectively. This debt is subject to interest rate risk as these instruments
have fixed interest rates and the fair value is affected by changes in market interest rates. Should interest rates increase or decrease
in the future, the estimated fair value of our fixed rate debt would decrease or increase accordingly.
For additional information regarding our long-term debt, see Note 6, “Fair Value” and Note 12, “Debt” of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Derivatives
We have exposure to economic losses due to interest rate risk arising from changes in the level or volatility of interest rates. We
attempt to mitigate our exposure to interest rate risk through the use of derivative financial instruments. These strategies include the
use of interest rate swaps and forward contracts, which are used to lock-in interest rates or to hedge (on an economic basis) interest
rate risks associated with variable rate debt. We have used these types of instruments as designated hedges against specific
liabilities.
Changes in interest rates will affect the estimated fair value of these derivatives. As of December 31, 2018, we recorded a net
liability of $4, the estimated fair value of the swaps at that date. We have evaluated the impact on the interest rate swaps’ fair value
considering an immediate 100 basis point change in interest rates. A 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in an
approximate $27 decrease in fair value, whereas a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would result in an approximate $27
increase in fair value.
For additional information regarding our derivatives, see Note 5, “Derivative Financial Instruments” of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
-69-
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
 
ANTHEM, INC.
 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016
 Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 71
Audited Consolidated Financial Statements:  
Consolidated Balance Sheets 72
Consolidated Statements of Income 73
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 74
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 75
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity 76
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 77
-70-
Report of Independent Register ed
Public Accounting Firm
 
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Anthem, Inc.
 
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Anthem, Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 2018 and 2017,
the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2018, and the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at
Item 15(c) (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2018 and 2017, and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2018, in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States)
(PCAOB), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, based on criteria established in
Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(2013 framework) and our report dated February 20, 2019 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Adoption of New Accounting Standard
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for non-
consolidated equity investments not accounted for under the equity method of accounting by requiring changes in fair value to be
recognized in income for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Basis for Opinion
 
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required
to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error
or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements,
whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test
basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the
financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1944.
Indianapolis, Indiana
February 20, 2019
-71-
Anthem, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
 December 31,
2018  December 31,
2017
(In millions, except share data)    
Assets    
Current assets:    
Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,934 $ 3,609
Fixed maturity securities, current (amortized cost of $16,894 and $17,055) 16,692 17,377
Equity securities, current 1,493 3,599
Other invested assets, current 21 17
Accrued investment income 162 163
Premium receivables 4,465 3,605
Self-funded receivables 2,278 2,580
Other receivables 2,558 2,267
Income taxes receivable 10 342
Securities lending collateral 604 455
Other current assets 2,104 2,249
Total current assets 34,321 36,263
Long-term investments:    
Fixed maturity securities (amortized cost of $486 and $555) 487 561
Equity securities 33 33
Other invested assets 3,726 3,344
Property and equipment, net 2,735 2,175
Goodwill 20,504 19,231
Other intangible assets 9,007 8,368
Other noncurrent assets 758 565
Total assets $ 71,571 $ 70,540
Liabilities and shareholders’ equity    
Liabilities    
Current liabilities:    
Policy liabilities:    
Medical claims payable $ 7,454 $ 7,992
Reserves for future policy benefits 75 70
Other policyholder liabilities 2,590 2,950
Total policy liabilities 10,119 11,012
Unearned income 902 860
Accounts payable and accrued expenses 4,959 5,024
Security trades pending payable 197 113
Securities lending payable 604 454
Short-term borrowings 1,145 1,275
Current portion of long-term debt 849 1,275
Other current liabilities 3,190 3,343
Total current liabilities 21,965 23,356
Long-term debt, less current portion 17,217 17,382
Reserves for future policy benefits, noncurrent 706 647
Deferred tax liabilities, net 1,960 1,727
Other noncurrent liabilities 1,182 925
Total liabilities 43,030 44,037
Commitments and contingencies—Note 13  
Shareholders’ equity    
Preferred stock, without par value, shares authorized - 100,000,000; shares issued and outstanding - none — —
Common stock, par value $0.01, shares authorized - 900,000,000; shares issued and outstanding - 257,395,577 and
256,084,913 3 3
Additional paid-in capital 9,536 8,547
Retained earnings 19,988 18,054
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (986) (101)
Total shareholders’ equity 28,541 26,503
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $ 71,571 $ 70,540
See accompanying notes.
-72-
Anthem, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Income
 Years Ended December 31
(In millions, except per share data) 2018 2017 2016
Revenues    
Premiums $ 85,421$ 83,648$ 78,860
Administrative fees and other revenue 5,920 5,413 5,334
Total operating revenue 91,341 89,061 84,194
Net investment income 970 867 779
Net realized (losses) gains on financial instruments (180) 145 5
Other-than-temporary impairment losses on investments:    
Total other-than-temporary impairment losses on investments (29) (35) (147)
Portion of other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in other
comprehensive (loss) income 3 2 32
Other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in income (26) (33) (115)
Total revenues 92,105 90,040 84,863
Expenses    
Benefit expense 71,895 72,236 66,834
Selling, general and administrative expense 14,020 12,650 12,559
Interest expense 753 739 723
Amortization of other intangible assets 358 169 192
Loss on extinguishment of debt 11 282 —
Total expenses 87,037 86,076 80,308
Income before income tax expense 5,068 3,964 4,555
Income tax expense 1,318 121 2,085
Net income $ 3,750$ 3,843$ 2,470
Net income per share    
Basic $ 14.53$ 14.70$ 9.39
Diluted $ 14.19$ 14.35$ 9.21
Dividends per share $ 3.00$ 2.70$ 2.60
See accompanying notes.
-73-
Anthem, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Compr ehensive Income
 
 Years Ended December 31
(In millions) 2018 2017 2016
Net income $ 3,750$ 3,843$ 2,470
Other comprehensive (loss) income, net of tax:    
Change in net unrealized gains/losses on investments (418) 173 118
Change in non-credit component of other-than-temporary
impairment losses on investments (2) 4 5
Change in net unrealized gains/losses on cash flow hedges 37 (65) (87)
Change in net periodic pension and postretirement costs (90) 51 (13)
Foreign currency translation adjustments (1) 3 2
Other comprehensive (loss) income (474) 166 25
Total comprehensive income $ 3,276$ 4,009$ 2,495
 
See accompanying notes.
-74-
Anthem, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
 Years Ended December  31
(In millions) 2018 2017 2016
Operating activities  
Net income $ 3,750 $ 3,843 $ 2,470
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:  
Net realized losses (gains) on financial instruments 180 (145) (5)
Other -than-temporary impairment losses recognized in income 26 33 115
Loss on extinguishment of debt 11 282 —
Loss on disposal of assets 8 13 5
Deferred income taxes 91 (1,272 ) 127
Amortization, net of accretion 1,008 780 808
Depreciation expense 124 111 104
Impairment of property and equipment 5 2 45
Share-based compensation 226 170 165
Excess tax benefits from share-based compensation — — (54)
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:  
Receivables, net (695) (22) (1,381 )
Other invested assets (1) (36) (19)
Other assets (26) (629) (128)
Policy liabilities (1,059 ) 732 322
Unearned income (36) (120) (174)
Accounts payable and accrued expenses 122 922 182
Other liabilities (25) (120) 606
Income taxes 323 (194) 179
Other , net (205) (165) (97)
Net cash pr ovided by operating activities 3,827 4,185 3,270
Investing activities  
Purchases of fixed maturity securities (8,244 ) (9,795 ) (10,158 )
Proceeds from fixed maturity securities:  
Sales 6,442 7,932 8,636
Maturities, calls and redemptions 1,938 1,848 1,419
Purchases of equity securities (896) (5,416 ) (1,476 )
Proceeds from sales of equity securities 2,809 3,463 1,593
Purchases of other invested assets (531) (1,164 ) (433)
Proceeds from sales of other invested assets 411 219 305
Changes in collateral and settlement of non-hedging derivatives — 65 (35)
Changes in securities lending collateral (149) 625 222
Purchases of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (1,760 ) (2,080 ) —
Purchases of property and equipment (1,208 ) (800) (584)
Proceeds from sales of property and equipment — 9 —
Other , net (71) 12 (3)
Net cash used in investing activities (1,259 ) (5,082 ) (514)
Financing activities  
Net (repayments of) proceeds from commercial paper borrowings (107) 175 (53)
Proceeds from long-term borrowings 835 5,458 —
Repayments of long-term borrowings (1,684 ) (2,815 ) —
Proceeds from short-term borrowings 9,120 5,835 2,400
Repayments of short-term borrowings (9,250 ) (5,000 ) (2,500 )
Changes in securities lending payable 150 (625) (222)
Changes in bank overdrafts (210) 71 513
Proceeds from sale of put options 1 1 —
Proceeds from issuance of common stock under Equity Units stock purchase contracts 1,250 — —
Repurchase and retirement of common stock (1,685 ) (1,998 ) —
Change in collateral and settlements of debt-related derivatives 23 (149) (360)
Cash dividends (776) (705) (684)
Proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans 173 225 120
Taxes paid through withholding of common stock under employee stock plans (81) (46) (67)
Excess tax benefits from share-based compensation — — 54
Net cash (used in) pr ovided by financing activities (2,241 ) 427 (799)
Effect of for eign exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (2) 4 5
Change in cash and cash equivalents 325 (466) 1,962
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 3,609 4,075 2,113
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 3,934 $ 3,609 $ 4,075
See accompanying notes.
-75-
Anthem, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Shar eholders’  Equity
 Common StockAdditional
Paid-in
Capital  Accumulated
Other
Comprehensive
Loss Total
Shareholders’
Equity (In millions)Number
of SharesPar
Value  Retained
Earnings  
January 1, 2016 261.2$ 3$ 8,556 $14,778 $ (292) $ 23,045
Net income — — — 2,470 — 2,470
Other comprehensive income — — — — 25 25
Dividends and dividend equivalents — — — (688) — (688)
Issuance of common stock under
employee stock plans, net of related
tax benefits 2.5 — 249 — — 249
December 31, 2016 263.7 3 8,805 16,560 (267) 25,101
Net income — — — 3,843 — 3,843
Other comprehensive income — — — — 166 166
Premiums for and settlement of equity
options — — 1 — — 1
Repurchase and retirement of common
stock (10.5) — (356) (1,642) — (1,998)
Dividends and dividend equivalents — — — (707) — (707)
Issuance of common stock under
employee stock plans, net of related
tax benefits 2.9 — 342 — — 342
Convertible debenture conversions — — (245) — — (245)
December 31, 2017 256.1 3 8,547 18,054 (101) 26,503
Adoption of Accounting Standards
Update No. 2016-01 (Note 2) — — — 320 (320) —
January 1, 2018 256.1 3 8,547 18,374 (421) 26,503
Net income — — — 3,750 — 3,750
Other comprehensive loss — — — — (474) (474)
Issuance of common stock under Equity
Units stock purchase contracts 6.0 — 1,250 — — 1,250
Premiums for and settlement of equity
options — — 1 — — 1
Repurchase and retirement of common
stock (6.8) — (243) (1,442) — (1,685)
Dividends and dividend equivalents — — — (785) — (785)
Issuance of common stock under
employee stock plans, net of related
tax benefits 2.1 — 318 — — 318
Convertible debenture conversions — — (337) — — (337)
Adoption of Accounting Standards
Update No. 2018-02 (Note 2) — — — 91 (91) —
December 31, 2018 257.4$ 3$ 9,536 $19,988 $ (986) $ 28,541
See accompanying notes.
-76-
Anthem, Inc.
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
December 31, 2018
 
(In Millions, Except Per Share Data or As Otherwise Stated Herein)
1. Organization
References to the terms “we,” “our,” “us” or “Anthem” used throughout these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
refer to Anthem, Inc., an Indiana corporation, and unless the context otherwise requires, its direct and indirect subsidiaries.
We are one of the largest health benefits companies in the United States in terms of medical membership, serving
approximately 40 medical members through our affiliated health plans as of December 31, 2018. We offer a broad spectrum of
network-based managed care plans to Large Group, Small Group, Individual, Medicaid and Medicare markets. Our managed care
plans include: Preferred Provider Organizations, or PPOs; Health Maintenance Organizations, or HMOs; Point-of-Service, or POS,
plans; traditional indemnity plans and other hybrid plans, including Consumer-Driven Health Plans, or CDHPs; and hospital only
and limited benefit products. In addition, we provide a broad array of managed care services to self-funded customers, including
claims processing, stop loss insurance, actuarial services, provider network access, medical cost management, disease management,
wellness programs and other administrative services. We provide an array of specialty and other insurance products and services
such as dental, vision, life and disability insurance benefits, radiology benefit management and analytics-driven personal
healthcare. We also provide services to the federal government in connection with the Federal Employee Program®, or FEP®.
We are an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, or BCBSA, an association of independent
health benefit plans. We serve our members as the Blue Cross licensee for California and as the Blue Cross and Blue Shield, or
BCBS, licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City
area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (in the New York City metropolitan area and upstate New York), Ohio, Virginia
(excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.) and Wisconsin. In a majority of these service areas, we do business
as Anthem Blue Cross, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Georgia, and Empire Blue Cross Blue
Shield or Empire Blue Cross. We also conduct business through arrangements with other BCBS licensees in Louisiana, South
Carolina and western New York. Through our subsidiaries, we also serve customers in over 25 states across the country as
America’s 1st Choice, Amerigroup, Aspire Health, CareMore, Freedom Health, HealthLink, HealthSun, Optimum HealthCare,
Simply Healthcare, and/or UniCare. We are licensed to conduct insurance operations in all 50 states and the District of Columbia
through our subsidiaries.
2. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies
Basis of Presentation: The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Anthem and its
subsidiaries and have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. All significant
intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Certain of our subsidiaries operate outside of the United States and have functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar, or
USD. We translate the assets and liabilities of those subsidiaries to USD using the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period.
We translate the revenues and expenses of those subsidiaries to USD using the average exchange rates in effect during the period.
The net effect of these translation adjustments is included in “Foreign currency translation adjustments” in our consolidated
statements of comprehensive income.
Reclassifications: Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation or adjusted to
conform to the current year rounding convention of reporting financial data in whole millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted.
-77-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Use of Estimates: The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Cash and Cash Equivalents: Cash and cash equivalents includes available cash and all highly liquid investments with
maturities of three months or less when purchased. We control a number of bank accounts that are used exclusively to hold
customer funds for the administration of customer benefits, and we have cash and cash equivalents on deposit to meet certain
regulatory requirements. These amounts totaled $222 and $182 at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and are included in
the cash and cash equivalents line on our consolidated balance sheets.
Investments: Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, other-than-temporary impairment, or OTTI, guidance applies to
fixed maturity securities and provides guidance on the recognition, presentation of, and disclosures for OTTIs. If a fixed maturity
security is in an unrealized loss position and we have the intent to sell the fixed maturity security, or it is more likely than not that
we will have to sell the fixed maturity security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, the decline in value is deemed to be
other-than-temporary and is presented within the other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in the income line item on our
consolidated statements of income. For impaired fixed maturity securities that we do not intend to sell or it is more likely than not
that we will not have to sell such securities, but we expect that we will not fully recover the amortized cost basis, the credit
component of the OTTI is presented within the other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in the income line item on our
consolidated statements of income and the non-credit component of the OTTI is recognized in other comprehensive income.
Furthermore, unrealized losses entirely caused by non-credit related factors related to fixed maturity securities for which we expect
to fully recover the amortized cost basis continue to be recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss.
The credit component of an OTTI is determined primarily by comparing the net present value of projected future cash flows
with the amortized cost basis of the fixed maturity security. The net present value is calculated by discounting our best estimate of
projected future cash flows at the effective interest rate implicit in the fixed maturity security at the date of acquisition. For
mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, cash flow estimates are based on assumptions regarding the underlying collateral,
including prepayment speeds, vintage, type of underlying asset, geographic concentrations, default rates, recoveries and changes in
value. For all other securities, cash flow estimates are driven by assumptions regarding probability of default, including changes in
credit ratings and estimates regarding timing and amount of recoveries associated with a default.
For asset-backed securities included in fixed maturity securities, we recognize income using an effective yield based on
anticipated prepayments and the estimated economic life of the securities. When estimates of prepayments change, the effective
yield is recalculated to reflect actual payments to date and anticipated future payments. The net investment in the securities is
adjusted to the amount that would have existed had the new effective yield been applied since the acquisition of the securities. Such
adjustments are reported within net investment income.
Effective January 1, 2018 and in accordance with the FASB guidance, the changes in fair value of our marketable equity
securities are recognized in our results of operations within the net realized gains and losses on financial instruments. Prior to 2018,
the unrealized gains or losses on our equity securities previously classified as available-for-sale were included in accumulated other
comprehensive loss as a separate component of shareholders’ equity, unless the decline in value was deemed to be other-than-
temporary and we did not have the intent and ability to hold such equity securities until their full cost can be recovered, in which
case such equity securities were written down to fair value and the loss was charged to other-than-temporary impairment losses
recognized in income.
We maintain various rabbi trusts to account for the assets and liabilities under certain deferred compensation plans. Under
these plans, the participants can defer certain types of compensation and elect to receive a return on the deferred amounts based on
the changes in fair value of various investment options, primarily a variety of mutual funds. We have corporate-owned life
insurance policies on certain participants in our deferred compensation plans. The cash surrender value of the corporate-owned life
insurance policies is reported in other invested assets, long-term, in the consolidated balance sheets. The remaining rabbi trust
assets are generally invested according to the participant’s investment election and are classified as trading, which are reported in
other invested assets, current, in the consolidated balance sheets.
-78-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
We use the equity method of accounting for investments in companies in which our ownership interest enables us to influence
the operating or financial decisions of the investee company. Our proportionate share of equity in net income of these
unconsolidated affiliates is reported within net investment income.
Investment income is recorded when earned. All securities sold resulting in investment gains and losses are recorded on the
trade date. Realized gains and losses are determined on the basis of the cost or amortized cost of the specific securities sold.
We participate in securities lending programs whereby marketable securities in our investment portfolio are transferred to
independent brokers or dealers in exchange for cash and securities collateral. Under FASB guidance related to accounting for
transfers and servicing of financial assets and extinguishments of liabilities, we recognize the collateral as an asset, which is
reported as securities lending collateral on our consolidated balance sheets, and we record a corresponding liability for the
obligation to return the collateral to the borrower, which is reported as securities lending payable. The securities on loan are
reported in the applicable investment category on our consolidated balance sheets. Unrealized gains or losses on securities lending
collateral are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. The market value
of loaned securities and that of the collateral pledged can fluctuate in non-synchronized fashions. To the extent the loaned
securities’ value appreciates faster or depreciates slower than the value of the collateral pledged, we are exposed to the risk of the
shortfall. As a primary mitigating mechanism, the loaned securities and collateral pledged are marked to market on a daily basis and
the shortfall, if any, is collected accordingly. Secondarily, the collateral level is set at 102% of the value of the loaned securities,
which provides a cushion before any shortfall arises. The investment of the cash collateral is subject to market risk, which is
managed by limiting the investments to higher quality and shorter duration instruments.
Receivables: Premium receivables include the uncollected amounts from insured groups, individuals and government
programs. Premium receivables are reported net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of $278 and $302 at December 31, 2018 and
2017, respectively. Self-funded receivables include administrative fees, claims and other amounts due from self-funded customers.
Self-funded receivables are reported net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of $47 and $153 at December 31, 2018 and 2017,
respectively. The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on historical collection trends and our judgment regarding the ability to
collect specific accounts.
Other receivables include pharmacy rebates, provider advances, claims recoveries, reinsurance receivables, proceeds due from
brokers on investment trades, other government receivables and other miscellaneous amounts due to us. These receivables are
reported net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of $280 and $306 at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, which is based
on historical collection trends and our judgment regarding the ability to collect specific accounts.
Income Taxes: We file a consolidated income tax return. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for
temporary differences between the financial statement and tax return basis of assets and liabilities based on enacted tax rates and
laws. The deferred tax benefits of the deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent realization of such benefits is more likely than
not. Deferred income tax expense or benefit generally represents the net change in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during
the year, excluding the impact from amounts initially recorded for business combinations, if any, and amounts recorded to
accumulated other comprehensive loss. Current income tax expense represents the tax consequences of revenues and expenses
currently taxable or deductible on various income tax returns for the year reported.
We account for income tax contingencies in accordance with FASB guidance that contains a model to address uncertainty in
tax positions and clarifies the accounting for income taxes by prescribing a minimum recognition threshold, which all income tax
positions must achieve before being recognized in the financial statements.
Property and Equipment: Property and equipment is recorded at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is
computed principally by the straight-line method over estimated useful lives ranging from fifteen to thirty-nine years for buildings
and improvements, three to five years for computer equipment and software, and the lesser of the remaining life of the building
lease, if any, or seven years for furniture and other equipment. Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the term of the related
lease. Certain costs related to the development or purchase of internal-use software are capitalized and amortized over five years.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets: FASB guidance requires business combinations to be accounted for using the
acquisition method of accounting and it also specifies the types of acquired intangible assets that are required to be recognized and
reported separately from goodwill. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair
-79-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
value of net assets acquired. Other intangible assets represent the values assigned to customer relationships, provider and hospital
networks, Blue Cross and Blue Shield and other trademarks, licenses, non-compete and other agreements. Goodwill and other
intangible assets are allocated to reportable segments based on the relative fair value of the components of the businesses acquired.
Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized but are tested for impairment at least annually. We
complete our annual impairment tests of existing goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives during the fourth quarter
of each year. Certain interim impairment tests are also performed when potential impairment indicators exist or changes in our
business or other triggering events occur. Goodwill and other intangible assets are allocated to reporting units for purposes of the
annual goodwill impairment test. Other intangible assets with indefinite lives, such as trademarks, are tested for impairment
separately.
FASB guidance allows for qualitative assessments of whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is
less than its carrying amount for purposes of a goodwill impairment analysis and whether it is more likely than not that an
indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired for purposes of an indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment analysis. Quantitative
analysis must be performed if qualitative analyses are not conclusive. Entities also have the option to bypass the assessment of
qualitative factors and proceed directly to performing quantitative analyses. Our impairment tests require us to make assumptions
and judgments regarding the estimated fair value of our reporting units, including goodwill and other intangible assets with
indefinite lives. Estimated fair values developed based on our assumptions and judgments might be significantly different if other
reasonable assumptions and estimates were to be used. We began our 2018 annual test with qualitative analyses.
Qualitative analysis involves assessing situations and developments that could affect key drivers used to evaluate whether the
fair value of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are impaired. Our procedures include assessing our financial
performance, macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, various asset specific factors, and entity specific
events.
Fair value for purposes of a quantitative goodwill impairment test is calculated using a blend of the projected income and
market valuation approaches. The projected income approach is developed using assumptions about future revenue, expenses and
net income derived from our internal planning process. Our assumed discount rate is based on our industry’s weighted-average cost
of capital and reflects volatility associated with the cost of equity capital. Market valuations include market comparisons to publicly
traded companies in our industry and are based on observed multiples of certain measures including revenue; earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA; and book value of invested capital. A goodwill impairment loss is
recognized to the extent that the carrying amount exceeds the asset’s fair value. This determination is made at the reporting unit
level and consists of two steps. First, the fair value of a reporting unit is determined and compared to its carrying amount. Second,
if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized for any excess of the carrying
amount of the reporting unit’s goodwill over the implied fair value of that goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is
determined by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation on a business
acquisition, at the impairment test date.
Fair value for purposes of a quantitative impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets is estimated using a projected
income approach. We recognize an impairment loss when the estimated fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets is less than
the carrying value. If significant impairment indicators are noted relative to other intangible assets subject to amortization, we may
be required to record impairment losses against future income.
Derivative Financial Instruments: We primarily invest in the following types of derivative financial instruments: interest rate
swaps, futures, forward contracts, put and call options, swaptions, embedded derivatives and warrants. Derivatives embedded
within non-derivative instruments, such as options embedded in convertible fixed maturity securities, are bifurcated from the host
instrument when the embedded derivative is not clearly and closely related to the host instrument. Our use of derivatives is limited
by statutes and regulations promulgated by the various regulatory bodies to which we are subject, and by our own derivative policy.
Our derivative use is generally limited to hedging purposes, on an economic basis, and we generally do not use derivative
instruments for speculative purposes.
We have exposure to economic losses due to interest rate risk arising from changes in the level or volatility of interest rates. We
attempt to mitigate our exposure to interest rate risk through active portfolio management, including rebalancing
-80-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
our existing portfolios of assets and liabilities, as well as changing the characteristics of investments to be purchased or sold in the
future. In addition, derivative financial instruments are used to modify the interest rate exposure of certain liabilities or forecasted
transactions. These strategies include the use of interest rate swaps and forward contracts, which are used to lock-in interest rates or
to hedge, on an economic basis, interest rate risks associated with variable rate debt. We have used these types of instruments as
designated hedges against specific liabilities.
All investments in derivatives are recorded as assets or liabilities at fair value. If certain correlation, hedge effectiveness and
risk reduction criteria are met, a derivative may be specifically designated as a hedge of exposure to changes in fair value or cash
flow. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and the nature of
any hedge designation thereon. Amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness, if any, as well as the ineffective
portion of the gain or loss, are reported in results of operations immediately. If the derivative is not designated as a hedge, the gain
or loss resulting from the change in the fair value of the derivative is recognized in results of operations in the period of change.
Cash flows associated with the settlement of non-designated derivatives are shown on a net basis in investing activity in our
consolidated statements of cash flow.
From time to time, we may also purchase derivatives to hedge, on an economic basis, our exposure to foreign currency
exchange fluctuations associated with the operations of certain of our subsidiaries. We generally use futures or forward contracts
for these transactions. We generally do not designate these contracts as hedges and, accordingly, the changes in fair value of these
derivatives are recognized in results of operations immediately.
Credit exposure associated with non-performance by the counterparties to derivative instruments is generally limited to the
uncollateralized fair value of the asset related to instruments recognized in the consolidated balance sheets. We attempt to mitigate
the risk of non-performance by selecting counterparties with high credit ratings and monitoring their creditworthiness and by
diversifying derivatives among multiple counterparties. At December 31, 2018, we believe there were no material concentrations of
credit risk with any individual counterparty.
We generally enter into master netting agreements, which reduce credit risk by permitting net settlement of transactions with
the same counterparty. Certain of our derivative agreements also contain credit support provisions that require us or the
counterparty to post collateral if there are declines in the derivative fair value or our credit rating. The derivative assets and
derivative liabilities are reported at their fair values net of collateral and netting by the counterparty.
Retirement Benefits: We recognize the funded status of pension and other postretirement benefit plans on the consolidated
balance sheets based on fiscal-year-end measurements of plan assets and benefit obligations. Prepaid pension benefits represent
prepaid costs related to defined benefit pension plans and are reported with other noncurrent assets. Postretirement benefits
represent outstanding obligations for retiree medical, life, vision and dental benefits. Liabilities for pension and other
postretirement benefits are reported with current and noncurrent liabilities based on the amount by which the actuarial present value
of benefits payable in the next twelve months included in the benefit obligation exceeds the fair value of plan assets.
We determine the expected return on plan assets using the calculated value of plan assets, which recognizes changes in the fair
value of plan assets in a systematic manner over three years. We apply a corridor approach to amortize unrecognized actuarial gains
or losses. Under this approach, only accumulated net actuarial gains or losses in excess of 10% of the greater of the projected
benefit obligation or the fair value of plan assets are amortized over the average remaining service or lifetime of the workforce as a
component of net periodic benefit cost.
The discount rate reflects the current rate at which the pension liabilities could be effectively settled at the end of the year
based on our most recent measurement date. At the December 31, 2017 measurement date, we changed the discount rate setting
methodology from the single equivalent discount rate to the annual spot rate approach. Under the spot rate approach, individual
spot rates from a full yield curve of published rates are used to discount each plan’s cash flows to determine the plan’s obligations.
The spot rate approach produces a more precise measure of service and interest cost, and results in obligations that are equal at the
measurement date under both methods.
The assumed healthcare cost trend rates used to measure the expected cost of other postretirement benefits are based on an
initial assumed healthcare cost trend rate declining to an ultimate healthcare cost trend rate over a select number of years.
-81-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Medical Claims Payable: Liabilities for medical claims payable include estimated provisions for incurred but not paid claims
on an undiscounted basis, as well as estimated provisions for expenses related to the processing of claims. Incurred but not paid
claims include (1) an estimate for claims that are incurred but not reported, as well as claims reported to us but not yet processed
through our systems; and (2) claims reported to us and processed through our systems but not yet paid.
Liabilities for both claims incurred but not reported and reported but not yet processed through our systems are determined in
the aggregate, employing actuarial methods that are commonly used by health insurance actuaries and meet Actuarial Standards of
Practice. Actuarial Standards of Practice require that the claim liabilities be appropriate under moderately adverse circumstances.
We determine the amount of the liability for incurred but not paid claims by following a detailed actuarial process that uses both
historical claim payment patterns as well as emerging medical cost trends to project our best estimate of claim liabilities. Under this
process, historical paid claims data is formatted into “claim triangles,” which compare claim incurred dates to the dates of claim
payments. This information is analyzed to create “completion factors” that represent the average percentage of total incurred claims
that have been paid through a given date after being incurred. Completion factors are applied to claims paid through the period-end
date to estimate the ultimate claim expense incurred for the period. Actuarial estimates of incurred but not paid claim liabilities are
then determined by subtracting the actual paid claims from the estimate of the ultimate incurred claims. 
For the most recent incurred months (typically the most recent two months), the percentage of claims paid for claims incurred
in those months is generally low. This makes the completion factor methodology less reliable for such months. Therefore, incurred
claims for recent months are not projected from historical completion and payment patterns; rather, they are projected by estimating
the claims expense for those months based on recent claims expense levels and healthcare trend levels, or “trend factors.”
We regularly review and set assumptions regarding cost trends and utilization when initially establishing claim liabilities. We
continually monitor and adjust the claims liability and benefit expense based on subsequent paid claims activity. If it is determined
that our assumptions regarding cost trends and utilization are materially different than actual results, our income statement and
financial position could be impacted in future periods.
Premium deficiencies are recognized when it is probable that expected claims and administrative expenses will exceed future
premiums on existing medical insurance contracts without consideration of investment income. Determination of premium
deficiencies for longer duration life and disability contracts includes consideration of investment income. For purposes of premium
deficiencies, contracts are deemed to be either short or long duration and are grouped in a manner consistent with our method of
acquiring, servicing and measuring the profitability of such contracts. Once established, premium deficiencies are released
commensurate with actual claims experience over the remaining life of the contract. No premium deficiencies were established at
December 31, 2018 or 2017.
Benefit expense includes incurred medical claims as well as quality improvement expenses for our fully-insured members.
Quality improvement activities are those designed to improve member health outcomes, prevent hospital readmissions and improve
patient safety. They also include expenses for wellness and health promotion provided to our members.
Reserves for Future Policy Benefits: Reserves for future policy benefits include liabilities for life and long-term disability
insurance policy benefits based upon interest, mortality and morbidity assumptions from published actuarial tables, modified based
upon our experience. Future policy benefits also include liabilities for insurance policies for which some of the premiums received
in earlier years are intended to pay anticipated benefits to be incurred in future years. Future policy benefits are continually
monitored and reviewed, and when reserves are adjusted, differences are reflected in benefit expense.
The current portion of reserves for future policy benefits relates to the portion of such reserves that we expect to pay within
one year. We believe that our liabilities for future policy benefits, along with future premiums received, are adequate to satisfy our
ultimate benefit liability; however, these estimates are inherently subject to a number of variable circumstances. Consequently, the
actual results could differ materially from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements.
 Other Policyholder Liabilities: Other policyholder liabilities include rate stabilization reserves associated with retrospectively
rated insurance contracts and certain case-specific reserves. Other policyholder liabilities also includes liabilities for premium
refunds based upon the minimum medical loss ratio, or MLR, the relative health risk of members, or other contractual or regulatory
requirements. Rate stabilization reserves represent accumulated premiums that exceed what
-82-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
customers owe us based on actual claim experience. The timing of payment of these retrospectively rated refunds is based on the
contractual terms with our customers and can vary from period to period based on the specific contractual requirements.
We are required to meet certain minimum MLR thresholds prescribed by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and
the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, as amended, or collectively, the ACA. If we do not meet or exceed the
minimum MLR thresholds specified by the ACA, we are required to pay rebates to certain customers. Minimum MLR rebates are
calculated by subsidiary, state and applicable line of business (Large Group, Small Group, Individual and Medicare) in accordance
with regulations issued by the Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS. Such calculations are made using estimated
calendar year medical loss expense and premiums, as defined by HHS.
We follow HHS guidelines for determining the types of expenses that may be included in our minimum MLR rebate
calculations, which differ from benefit expense and premiums as reported in our consolidated financial statements prepared in
conformity with GAAP. Certain amounts reported as expense in our GAAP basis consolidated financial statements may be reported
as a reduction of premiums in accordance with HHS regulations. In addition, profit amounts included in our payments to third-party
administrative service providers are recorded as benefit expense in our consolidated GAAP financial statements while HHS does
not allow for the inclusion of these expenses within the medical loss expense for purposes of calculating minimum MLR.
Revenue Recognition: Premiums for fully-insured contracts are recognized as revenue over the period insurance coverage is
provided, and, if applicable, net of amounts recognized for the ACA MLR rebates, risk adjustment, reinsurance and risk corridor or
contractual premium stabilization programs. Premium payments from contracted government agencies are based on eligibility lists
produced by the government agencies. Premiums related to the unexpired contractual coverage periods are reflected in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets as unearned income. Premiums include revenue adjustments for retrospectively rated
contracts where revenue is based on the estimated loss experience of the contract. Premium rates for certain lines of business are
subject to approval by the Department of Insurance of each respective state. Additionally, delays in annual premium rate changes
from contracted government agencies require that we defer the recognition of any increases to the period in which the premium
rates become final. The value of the impact can be significant in the period in which it is recognized depending on the magnitude of
the premium rate increase, the membership to which it applies and the length of the delay between the effective date of the rate
increase and the final contract date. Premium rate decreases are recognized in the period the change in premium rate becomes
effective and the change in the rate is known, which may be prior to the period when the contract amendment affecting the rate is
finalized.
Administrative fees and other revenues include revenue from certain group contracts that provide for the group to be at risk for
all, or with supplemental insurance arrangements, a portion of their claims experience. We charge these self-funded groups an
administrative fee, which is based on the number of members in a group or the group’s claim experience. In addition,
administrative fees and other revenues include amounts received for the administration of Medicare or certain other government
programs. Under our self-funded arrangements, revenue is recognized as administrative services are performed. All benefit
payments under these programs are excluded from benefit expense.
For our non-fully-insured contracts, we had no material contract assets, contract liabilities or deferred contract costs recorded
on our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2018. Revenue recognized in 2018 from performance obligations related to
prior years, such as due to changes in transaction price, was not material. For contracts that have an original expected duration of
greater than one year, revenue expected to be recognized in future periods related to unfulfilled contractual performance obligations
and contracts with variable consideration related to undelivered performance obligations is not material.
Share-Based Compensation: Our current compensation philosophy provides for share-based compensation, including stock
options, restricted stock awards and an employee stock purchase plan. Stock options are granted for a fixed number of shares with
an exercise price at least equal to the fair value of the shares at the date of the grant. Restricted stock awards are issued at the fair
value of the stock on the grant date. The employee stock purchase plan allows for a purchase price per share which is 95% of the
fair value of a share of common stock on the last trading day of the plan quarter. The employee stock purchase plan discount is not
recognized as compensation expense based on GAAP guidance. All other share-based payments to employees are recognized as
compensation expense in the income statement based on their fair values. Additionally, excess tax benefits, which result from actual
tax benefits realized when awards vest or options are exercised exceeding deferred tax benefits previously recognized based on
grant date fair value, are recognized as tax benefits in the income statement. Our
-83-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
share-based employee compensation plans and assumptions are described in Note 14, “Capital Stock.” Also see “Recently Adopted
Accounting Guidance” within this Note 2 for reference to accounting changes adopted related to share-based compensation.
Advertising and Marketing Costs: We use print, broadcast and other advertising to promote our products and to develop our
corporate image. We market our products through direct marketing activities and an extensive network of independent agents,
brokers and retail partnerships for Individual and Medicare customers, and for certain Local Group customers with a smaller
employee base. Products for National Accounts and Local Group customers with a larger employee base are generally sold through
independent brokers or consultants retained by the customer and working with industry specialists from our in-house sales force. In
the Individual and Small Group markets we offer products through state or federally facilitated marketplaces, or public exchanges,
and off-exchange products. The cost of advertising and marketing for product promotion is expensed as incurred while advertising
and marketing costs associated with our corporate image is expensed when first aired. Total advertising and marketing expense was
$385, $338 and $246 for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Health Insurance Provider Fee: The ACA imposed an annual Health Insurance Provider Fee, or HIP Fee, on health insurers
that write certain types of health insurance on U.S. risks. The annual HIP Fee is allocated to health insurers based on the ratio of the
amount of an insurer’s net premium revenues written during the preceding calendar year to the amount of health insurance
premium for all U.S. health risk for those certain lines of business written during the preceding calendar year. We record our
estimated liability for the HIP Fee in full at the beginning of the year with a corresponding deferred asset that is amortized on a
straight-line basis to selling, general and administrative expense. The final calculation and payment of the annual HIP Fee is due by
September 30th of each fee year. The HIP Fee is non-deductible for federal income tax purposes. We price our affected products to
cover the increased selling, general and administrative and income tax expenses associated with the HIP Fee. The total amount due
from allocations to health insurers was $11,300 for 2016, was suspended for 2017, had resumed and increased to $14,300 for 2018
and is suspended for 2019. The HIP Fee is scheduled to go back into effect for 2020. For the years ended December 31, 2018 and
2016, we recognized $1,544 and $1,176, respectively, as selling, general and administrative expense related to the HIP Fee. There
was no corresponding expense for 2017 due to the suspension of the HIP Fee for 2017.
Earnings per Share: Earnings per share amounts, on a basic and diluted basis, have been calculated based upon the weighted-
average common shares outstanding for the period.
Basic earnings per share excludes dilution and is computed by dividing income available to common shareholders by the
weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share may include the dilutive effect
of stock options, restricted stock, convertible debentures and Equity Units, using the treasury stock method. See Note 12, “Debt,”
for a description of our Equity Units. The treasury stock method assumes exercise of stock options and vesting of restricted stock,
with the assumed proceeds used to purchase common stock at the average market price for the period. The difference between the
number of shares assumed issued and number of shares assumed purchased represents the dilutive shares.
Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance: In February 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-02,
Income Statement—Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other
Comprehensive Income, or ASU 2018-02. On December 22, 2017, the federal government enacted a tax bill, H.R.1, An act to
provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018, or the Tax Cuts
and Jobs Act. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including, but not limited to, reducing
the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and modifying or limiting many business deductions. Current FASB
guidance requires adjustments of deferred taxes due to a change in the federal corporate income tax rate to be included in income
from operations. As a result, the tax effects of items within accumulated other comprehensive loss did not reflect the appropriate tax
rate. The amendments in ASU 2018-02 allow a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive loss to retained earnings for
stranded tax effects resulting from the change in the federal corporate income tax rate. We adopted the amendments in ASU 2018-
02 for our interim and annual reporting periods beginning on January 1, 2018 and reclassified $91 of stranded tax effects from
accumulated other comprehensive loss to retained earnings on our consolidated balance sheets. The adoption of ASU 2018-02 did
not have any impact on our results of operations or cash flows.
-84-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
In August 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted
Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities, or ASU 2017-12. This update amends the hedge accounting recognition and
presentation requirements in Topic 815 with the objective of improving the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better
portray the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements. The update also makes certain
targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance and provides several transition elections. We
adopted ASU 2017-12 on October 1, 2017. The adoption of ASU 2017-12 did not have a material impact on our consolidated
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
In May 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718):
Scope of Modification Accounting, or ASU 2017-09. This update provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions
of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in Topic 718. We adopted ASU 2017-09 on
January 1, 2018. The guidance has been and will be applied prospectively to awards modified on or after the adoption date. The
adoption of ASU 2017-09 did not have any impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
In March 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-07, Compensation - Retirement Benefits (Topic 715):
Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost, or ASU 2017-07. This
amendment requires entities to disaggregate the service cost component from the other components of the benefit cost and present
the service cost component in the same income statement line item as other employee compensation costs arising from services
rendered by the pertinent employees during the period. The other components of net benefit cost are required to be presented in the
income statement separately from the service cost component and outside a subtotal of income from operations. Certain of our
defined benefit plans have previously been frozen, resulting in no annual service costs, and the remaining service costs for our non-
frozen plan are not material. We adopted ASU 2017-07 on January 1, 2018 and it did not have a material impact on our results of
operations, cash flows or consolidated financial position.
In December 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-20, Technical Corrections and
Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. In May 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update
No. 2016-12, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients. In
April 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606):
Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing, or ASU 2016-10. In March 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards
Update No. 2016-08, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting
Revenue Gross verses Net). These updates provide additional clarification and implementation guidance on the previously issued
Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). Collectively, these updates
require a company to recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the
consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. These updates supersede almost
all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP, with certain exceptions, including an exception for our premium revenues,
which are recorded on the Premiums line item on our consolidated statements of income and will continue to be accounted for in
accordance with the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Topic 944, Financial Services - Insurance. Our
administrative service and other contracts that are subject to these Accounting Standards Updates are recorded in the Administrative
fees and other revenue line item on our consolidated statements of income and represents approximately 6% of our consolidated
total operating revenue. We adopted these standards on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach. The adoption of
these standards did not have a material impact on our beginning retained earnings, results of operations, cash flows or consolidated
financial position.
In November 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230):
Restricted Cash, or ASU 2016-18. This update amends ASC Topic 230 to add and clarify guidance on the classification and
presentation of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows. The guidance requires entities to show the changes in the total of
cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows. We adopted ASU 2016-18 on
January 1, 2018 using a retrospective approach. The adoption of ASU 2016-18 did not have a material impact on our consolidated
statements of cash flows and did not impact our results of operations or consolidated financial position.
In August 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230):
Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, or ASU 2016-15. This update addresses the presentation and
classification on the statement of cash flows for eight specific items, with the objective of reducing existing diversity in
-85-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified. We adopted ASU 2016-15 on January 1, 2018.
The adoption of ASU 2016-15 did not have a material impact on our consolidated statements of cash flows, results of operations or
consolidated financial position.
In March 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic
718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, or ASU 2016-09. The amendments in this update simplify
several aspects of accounting for and reporting on share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences,
classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. We adopted the amendments
in ASU 2016-09 on January 1, 2017. We continue to estimate forfeitures expected to occur in determining stock compensation
recognized in each period. We prospectively recognized tax benefits of $36, or $0.13 per diluted share, for the year ended
December 31, 2017 in our consolidated statements of income, which previously would have been recorded to additional paid-in
capital. In addition, we prospectively recognized excess tax benefits as an operating activity within our consolidated statement of
cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2017. Finally, we retrospectively recognized taxes paid on our employees’ behalf
through the withholding of common stock as a financing activity within our consolidated statements of cash flows for the years
ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.
In January 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-01, Financial Instruments - Overall (Subtopic 825-
10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, or ASU 2016-01. The amendments in ASU 2016-
01 change the accounting for non-consolidated equity investments that are not accounted for under the equity method of accounting
by requiring changes in fair value to be recognized in income. Additionally, ASU 2016-01 simplifies the impairment assessment of
equity investments without readily determinable fair values; requires entities to use the exit price when estimating the fair value of
financial instruments; and modifies various presentation disclosure requirements for financial instruments. We adopted ASU 2016-
01 on January 1, 2018 as a cumulative-effect adjustment and reclassified $320 of unrealized gains on equity investments, net of tax,
from accumulated other comprehensive loss to retained earnings on our consolidated balance sheet. Effective January 1, 2018, our
results of operations include the changes in fair value of these financial instruments.
In April 2015, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-05, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal-Use
Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customer’s Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement, or ASU 2015-05. This
update provides guidance to help entities determine whether a cloud computing arrangement contains a software license that should
be accounted for as internal-use software or as a service contract. ASU 2015-05 became effective January 1, 2016 and we elected to
adopt the provisions of the new guidance prospectively to all arrangements entered into or materially modified on or after January
1, 2016. The adoption of ASU 2015-05 did not have an impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash
flows.
In February 2015, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-02, Consolidation (Topic 810): Amendments to the
Consolidation Analysis, or ASU 2015-02. This update amended the consolidation guidance by modifying the evaluation criteria for
whether limited partnerships and similar legal entities are variable interest entities or voting interest entities, eliminating the
presumption that a general partner should consolidate a limited partnership, and affecting the consolidation analysis of reporting
entities that are involved with variable interest entities. We adopted the provisions of ASU 2015-02 effective January 1, 2016, and
re-evaluated all legal entity investments under the revised consolidation model. The adoption of ASU 2015-02 did not have a
material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted: In November 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-
19, Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses, or ASU 2018-19. The amendments in ASU
2018-19 provide additional clarification and implementation guidance on certain aspects of the previously issued Accounting
Standards Update No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial
Instruments, or ASU 2016-13, and have the same effective date and transition requirements as ASU 2016-13. ASU 2016-13
introduces a current expected credit loss model for measuring expected credit losses for certain types of financial instruments held
at the reporting date based on historical experience, current conditions and reasonable supportable forecasts. ASU 2016-13 replaces
the current incurred loss model for measuring expected credit losses, requires expected losses on available-for-sale debt securities
to be recognized through an allowance for credit losses rather than as reductions in the amortized cost of the securities and provides
for additional disclosure requirements. ASU 2016-13 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after
December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted for
-86-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018. We are currently evaluating the effects the adoption of
ASU 2016-13 will have on our consolidated financial statements, results of operations and cash flows.
In August 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-15, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other—Internal-Use
Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement that is
a Service Contract, or ASU 2018-15. The amendments in ASU 2018-15 require implementation costs incurred by customers in
cloud computing arrangements to be deferred and recognized over the term of the arrangement, if those costs would be capitalized
by the customer in a software licensing arrangement under the internal-use software guidance. The amendments also require an
entity to disclose the nature of its hosting arrangements and adhere to certain presentation requirements in its balance sheet, income
statement and statement of cash flows. ASU 2018-15 is effective for us on January 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted. The
guidance can be applied either prospectively to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption or retrospectively. We
are currently evaluating the effects the adoption of ASU 2018-15 will have on our consolidated financial position, results of
operations and cash flows.
In August 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-14, Compensation—Retirement Benefits—Defined
Benefit Plans—General (Subtopic 715-20): Disclosure Framework—Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit
Plans, or ASU 2018-14. The amendments in ASU 2018-14 eliminate, add and modify certain disclosure requirements for
employers that sponsor defined benefit pension or other postretirement plans. The amendments are effective for our annual
reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2020, with early adoption permitted. The guidance is to be applied on a
retrospective basis to all periods presented. We are currently evaluating the effects the adoption of ASU 2018-14 will have on our
disclosures.
In August 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure
Framework—Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement, or ASU 2018-13. The amendments in ASU
2018-13 eliminate, add and modify certain disclosure requirements for fair value measurements. The amendments are effective for
our interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted for either the entire
ASU or only the provisions that eliminate or modify disclosure requirements. We early adopted the provisions that eliminate and
modify disclosure requirements on a retrospective basis effective in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and we adopted the new
disclosure requirements on a prospective basis effective January 1, 2019.
In August 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-12, Financial Services Insurance (Topic
944): Targeted Improvements to the Accounting for Long-Duration Contracts, or ASU 2018-12. The amendments in ASU 2018-12
make changes to a variety of areas to simplify or improve the existing recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure
requirements for long-duration contracts issued by an insurance entity. The amendments require insurers to annually review the
assumptions they make about their policyholders and update the liabilities for future policy benefits if the assumptions change. The
amendments also simplify the amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs and add new disclosure requirements about the
assumptions insurers use to measure their liabilities and how they may affect future cash flows. The amendments in ASU 2018-12
will be effective for our interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2020. The amendments related to the
liability for future policy benefits for traditional and limited-payment contracts and deferred acquisition costs are to be applied to
contracts in force as of the beginning of the earliest period presented, with an option to apply such amendments retrospectively with
a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings as of the earliest period presented. The amendments for
market risk benefits are to be applied retrospectively. We are currently evaluating the effects the adoption of ASU 2018-12 will
have on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows, and related disclosures.
In July 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842): Targeted Improvements, or
ASU 2018-11, and Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases, or ASU 2018-10.
The amendments in ASU 2018-11 provide for an additional and optional transition method that allows an entity to initially apply
ASC Topic 842 at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative effect adjustment to its opening balance of retained earnings in the
period of adoption and continue its reporting for the comparative periods presented in accordance with the current lease guidance in
ASC Topic 840. The amendments in ASU 2018-11 also provide lessors with a practical expedient, by class of underlying asset, to
not separate nonlease components from the associated lease component and, instead, to account for those components as a single
component if the nonlease components otherwise would be accounted for under the new revenue guidance in ASC Topic 606 and if
certain conditions are met. The amendments in ASU 2018-10
-87-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
provide additional clarification and implementation guidance on certain aspects of the previously issued Accounting Standards
Update No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), or ASU 2016-02, and have the same effective and transition requirements as ASU 2016-
02. Upon the effective date, ASU 2016-02 will supersede the current lease guidance in ASC Topic 840. Under the new guidance,
lessees will be required to recognize for all leases, with the exception of short-term leases, a lease liability, which is a lessee’s
obligation to make lease payments arising from a lease, measured on a discounted basis. Concurrently, lessees will be required to
recognize a right-of-use asset, which is an asset that represents the lessee’s right to use, or control the use of, a specified asset for
the lease term. ASU 2016-02 became effective for us on January 1, 2019. ASU 2016-02 requires a modified retrospective transition
approach for leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative periods presented in the financial
statements. As noted above, ASU 2018-11 provides for an additional and optional transition method. We applied the optional
transition method upon adoption and have elected the package of practical expedients permitted, which among other things, allows
us to carry forward lease classification for our existing leases. In preparation for the adoption of this standard and to enable the
preparation of the required financial information, we implemented a new lease accounting software solution as well as new internal
controls. The adoption of this standard impacted our consolidated balance sheet in January 2019, as we recorded lease assets and
liabilities of approximately $700 for our operating leases. The adoption of this standard did not have an impact on our consolidated
statements of income or cash flows. We also do not believe the new standard will have an impact on our liquidity or debt-covenant
compliance under our current agreements.
In March 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-08, Receivables—Nonrefundable Fees and Other
Costs (Subtopic 310-20): Premium Amortization on Purchased Callable Debt Securities, or ASU 2017-08. This update changes the
amortization period for certain purchased callable debt securities held at a premium by shortening the amortization period for the
premium to the earliest call date. Under current guidance, the premium is generally amortized over the contractual life of the
instrument. The amendments are to be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to
retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. We adopted ASU 2017-08 on January 1, 2019 and the adoption of
this standard did not have a material impact on our beginning retained earnings or upon our consolidated financial position, results
of operations or cash flows.
In January 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-04, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350):
Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment, or ASU 2017-04. This update removes Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test under
current guidance, which requires a hypothetical purchase price allocation. The new guidance requires an impairment charge to be
recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value. Upon adoption, the guidance is to
be applied prospectively. ASU 2017-04 is effective for us on January 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of ASU
2017-04 is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
There were no other new accounting pronouncements that were issued or became effective during the year ended
December 31, 2018 that had, or are expected to have, a material impact on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows
or financial statement disclosures.
3. Business Acquisitions
Acquisition of America’s 1st Choice
On February 15, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Freedom Health, Inc., Optimum HealthCare, Inc., America’s 1st
Choice of South Carolina, Inc. and related entities, or collectively, America’s 1st Choice, a Medicare Advantage organization that
offers HMO products, including Chronic Special Needs Plans and Dual-Eligible Special Needs Plans under its Freedom Health and
Optimum HealthCare brands in Florida and its America’s 1st Choice of South Carolina brand in South Carolina. At the time of
acquisition, through its Medicare Advantage Plans, America’s 1st Choice served approximately one hundred and thirty-five
thousand members in twenty-five Florida and three South Carolina counties. This acquisition aligns with our plans for continued
growth in the Medicare Advantage and Special Needs populations.
In accordance with FASB accounting guidance for business combinations, the consideration transferred was allocated to the
fair value of America’s 1st Choice’s assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including identifiable intangible assets. The excess of
the consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets acquired resulted in goodwill of $1,029 at December 31, 2018, of
which $295 was tax deductible. All of the goodwill was allocated to our Government Business segment.
-88-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Goodwill recognized from the acquisition of America’s 1st Choice primarily relates to the future economic benefits arising from the
assets acquired and is consistent with our stated intentions to strengthen our position and expand operations in the government
sector to service Medicare Advantage and Special Needs populations.
The fair value of the net assets acquired from America’s 1st Choice includes $711 of other intangible assets at December 31,
2018, which primarily consist of finite-lived customer relationships with amortization periods ranging from 7 to 13 years. The
results of operations of America’s 1st Choice are included in our consolidated financial statements within our Government Business
segment for the periods following February 15, 2018. The pro forma effects of this acquisition for prior periods were not material to
our consolidated results of operations.
Acquisition of HealthSun
On December 21, 2017, we completed our acquisition of HealthSun Health Plans, Inc., or HealthSun, which at the time of
acquisition served approximately forty thousand members in the state of Florida through its Medicare Advantage Plans, and which
received a five-star rating from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. This acquisition aligns with our plans for continued
growth in the Medicare Advantage and dual-eligible populations.
In accordance with FASB accounting guidance for business combinations, the consideration transferred was allocated to the
fair value of HealthSun’s assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including identifiable intangible assets. The excess of the
consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets acquired resulted in goodwill of $1,631, at December 31, 2018, of which
$956 was tax deductible. All of the goodwill was allocated to our Government Business segment. Goodwill recognized from the
acquisition of HealthSun primarily relates to the future economic benefits arising from the assets acquired and is consistent with
our stated intentions to strengthen our position and expand operations in the government sector to service Medicare Advantage and
dual-eligible enrollees. Subsequent to the acquisition date, we recognized a $12 decrease to goodwill primarily related to
adjustments to provisional amounts of intangible assets recorded on the acquisition date.
The fair value of the net assets acquired from HealthSun includes $637 of other intangible assets at December 31, 2018, which
primarily consist of finite-lived customer relationships with amortization periods ranging from 7 to 11 years. The results of
operations of HealthSun are included in our consolidated financial statements within our Government Business segment for the
periods following December 21, 2017. The pro forma effects of this acquisition for prior periods were not material to our
consolidated results of operations.
Termination of Agreement and Plan of Merger with Cigna Corporation
On July 24, 2015, we and Cigna Corporation, or Cigna, announced that we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or
Cigna Merger Agreement, dated as of July 23, 2015, to acquire all outstanding shares of Cigna. On May 12, 2017, we delivered to
Cigna a notice terminating the Cigna Merger Agreement. Both we and Cigna have commenced litigation against the other seeking
various actions and damages, including Cigna’s damage claim for a $1,850 termination fee pursuant to the terms of the Cigna
Merger Agreement. For additional information, see Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory
Proceedings - Cigna Corporation Merger Litigation.”
-89-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
4. Investments
A summary of current and long-term fixed maturity securities, available-for-sale, at December 31, 2018 and 2017 is as follows:
      Non-Credit
Component of
OTTIs
Recognized in
Accumulated Other
Comprehensive
Loss Cost or
Amortized
CostGross
Unrealized
Gains Gross Unrealized Losses
Estimated
Fair Value 
  Less than
12 Months12 Months
or Greater  
December 31, 2018        
Fixed maturity securities:        
United States Government securities $ 414$ 3 $ — $ (1)$ 416 $ —
Government sponsored securities 108 1 — (1) 108 —
States, municipalities and political
subdivisions, tax-exempt 4,716 91 (3) (19) 4,785 —
Corporate securities 8,189 33 (170) (115) 7,937 (3)
Residential mortgage-backed securities 2,769 31 (3) (47) 2,750 —
Commercial mortgage-backed
securities 69 — — (2) 67 —
Other securities 1,115 14 (8) (5) 1,116 —
Total fixed maturity securities $17,380$ 173 $ (184)$ (190)$17,179 $ (3)
December 31, 2017        
Fixed maturity securities:        
United States Government securities $ 649$ 2 $ (5)$ (1)$ 645 $ —
Government sponsored securities 90 — — — 90 —
States, municipalities and political
subdivisions, tax-exempt 5,854 193 (5) (7) 6,035 —
Corporate securities 7,363 166 (30) (13) 7,486 —
Residential mortgage-backed securities 2,520 39 (8) (12) 2,539 —
Commercial mortgage-backed
securities 80 1 — (2) 79 —
Other securities 1,054 14 (3) (1) 1,064 —
Total fixed maturity securities $17,610$ 415 $ (51)$ (36)$17,938 $ —
-90-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
For fixed maturity securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2018 and 2017, the following table summarizes the
aggregate fair values and gross unrealized losses by length of time those securities have continuously been in an unrealized loss
position.
 Less than 12 Months  12 Months or Greater
 Number of
Securities Estimated
Fair Value Gross
Unrealized
Loss  Number of
SecuritiesEstimated
Fair ValueGross
Unrealized
Loss
(Securities are whole amounts)          
December 31, 2018       
Fixed maturity securities:       
United States Government securities 5 $ 47 $ — 25$ 79$ (1)
Government sponsored securities 8 11 — 24 31 (1)
States, municipalities and political
subdivisions, tax-exempt 177 295 (3) 604 1,032 (19)
Corporate securities 2,185 4,503 (170) 1,220 2,072 (115)
Residential mortgage-backed
securities 259 383 (3) 816 1,458 (47)
Commercial mortgage-backed
securities 6 11 — 19 37 (2)
Other securities 193 599 (8) 93 237 (5)
Total fixed maturity securities 2,833 $ 5,849 $ (184) 2,801$ 4,946$ (190)
December 31, 2017       
Fixed maturity securities:       
United States Government securities 36 $ 450 $ (5) 11$ 56$ (1)
Government sponsored securities 12 16 — 16 15 —
States, municipalities and political
subdivisions, tax-exempt 414 641 (5) 189 356 (7)
Corporate securities 1,081 2,200 (30) 279 330 (13)
Residential mortgage-backed
securities 445 1,050 (8) 287 478 (12)
Commercial mortgage-backed
securities 7 14 — 12 27 (2)
Other securities 132 406 (3) 20 36 (1)
Total fixed maturity securities 2,127 $ 4,777 $ (51) 814$ 1,298$ (36)
The amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2018, by contractual maturity, are shown below.
Expected maturities may differ from contractual maturities because the issuers of the securities may have the right to prepay
obligations.
 Amortized
Cost  Estimated
Fair Value
Due in one year or less $ 543 $ 544
Due after one year through five years 5,174 5,105
Due after five years through ten years 4,956 4,857
Due after ten years 3,869 3,856
Mortgage-backed securities 2,838 2,817
Total fixed maturity securities $ 17,380 $ 17,179
-91-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Equity Securities
A summary of current and long-term marketable equity securities at December 31, 2018 and 2017 is as follows:
 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017
Equity Securities:   
Exchange traded funds $ 2 $ 1,300
Fixed maturity mutual funds 557 791
Common equity securities 654 1,254
Private equity securities 313 287
Total $ 1,526 $ 3,632
Investment Income
The major categories of net investment income for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 are as follows:
2018 2017 2016
Fixed maturity securities $ 681$ 614$ 673
Equity securities 86 116 62
Cash equivalents 51 25 3
Other 193 153 85
Investment income 1,011 908 823
Investment expense (41) (41) (44)
Net investment income $ 970$ 867$ 779
-92-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Investment Gains
Net realized investment gains/losses and the net change in unrealized appreciation/depreciation on investments for the years
ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 are as follows:
 2018  2017 2016
Net realized gains (losses):    
Fixed maturity securities:    
Gross realized gains from sales $ 85 $ 137$ 210
Gross realized losses from sales (116) (55) (152)
Net realized (losses) gains from sales of fixed maturity securities (31) 82 58
Equity securities:    
Gross realized gains 77 140 205
Gross realized losses (276) (17) (50)
Net realized (losses) gains on equity securities (199) 123 155
Other investments:    
Gross realized gains from sales 27 — 7
Gross realized losses from sales — (5) —
Net realized gains (losses) from sales of other investments 27 (5) 7
Net realized (losses) gains on investments (203) 200 220
    
Other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in income:    
Fixed maturity securities (9) (4) (75)
Equity securities — (15) (22)
Other investments (17) (14) (18)
Other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in income (26) (33) (115)
    
Change in net unrealized (losses) gains on investments:    
Fixed maturity securities (529) 156 193
Equity securities — 111 7
Other investments 5 (10) (2)
Total change in net unrealized (losses) gains on investments (524) 257 198
Deferred income tax benefit (expense) 106 (84) (80)
Change in net unrealized (losses) gains on investments (418) 173 118
    
Net realized (losses) gains on investments, other-than-temporary
impairment losses recognized in income and change in net unrealized
(losses) gains on investments $ (647) $ 340$ 223
The gains and losses related to equity securities for the year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows:
 2018
Net realized losses recognized on equity securities $ (199)
Less: Net realized losses recognized on equity securities sold during the period 57
Unrealized losses recognized in income on equity securities still held at December 31 $ (142)
-93-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
A primary objective in the management of our fixed maturity and equity portfolios is to maximize total return relative to
underlying liabilities and respective liquidity needs. In achieving this goal, assets may be sold to take advantage of market
conditions or other investment opportunities as well as tax considerations. Sales will generally produce realized gains and losses. In
the ordinary course of business, we may sell securities at a loss for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to: (i) changes in
the investment environment; (ii) expectations that the fair value could deteriorate further; (iii) desire to reduce exposure to an issuer
or an industry; (iv) changes in credit quality; or (v) changes in expected cash flow.
Proceeds from sales, maturities, calls or redemptions of fixed maturity securities and the related gross realized gains and gross
realized losses for the years ended December 31 are as follows:
 2018 2017  2016
Proceeds $ 8,380$ 9,780 $ 10,055
Gross realized gains 85 137 210
Gross realized losses (116) (55) (152)
A significant judgment in the valuation of investments is the determination of when an other-than-temporary decline in value
has occurred. We follow a consistent and systematic process for recognizing impairments on securities that sustain other-than-
temporary declines in value. We have established a committee responsible for the impairment review process. The decision to
impair a security incorporates both quantitative criteria and qualitative information. The impairment review process considers a
number of factors including, but not limited to: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than book
value, (ii) the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, (iii) our intent and ability to retain impaired investments for
a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value, (iv) our intent to sell or the likelihood that we will
need to sell a fixed maturity security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, (v) whether the debtor is current on interest and
principal payments, (vi) the reasons for the decline in value (i.e., credit event compared to liquidity, general credit spread widening,
currency exchange rate or interest rate factors) and (vii) general market conditions and industry or sector specific factors. For
securities that are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired, the security is adjusted to fair value and the resulting losses are
recognized in the consolidated statements of income. The new cost basis of the impaired securities is not increased for future
recoveries in fair value.
Other-than-temporary impairments recorded in 2018, 2017 and 2016 were primarily the result of the continued credit
deterioration on specific issuers in the bond markets. There were no individually significant OTTI losses on investments by issuer
during 2018, 2017 or 2016.
Investment securities are exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, market and credit. Due to the level of risk associated
with certain investment securities and the level of uncertainty related to changes in the value of investment securities, it is possible
that changes in these risk factors in the near term could have an adverse material impact on our results of operations or
shareholders’ equity.
The changes in the amount of the credit component of OTTI losses on fixed maturity securities recognized in income, for
which a portion of the OTTI losses was recognized in other comprehensive income, was not material for the years ended
December 31, 2018, 2017 or 2016.
At December 31, 2018 and 2017, no investments exceeded 10% of shareholders’ equity.
At December 31, 2018 and 2017, the carrying value of fixed maturity investments that did not produce income during the years
then ended were $0 and $9, respectively.
As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, we had committed approximately $873 and $824, respectively, to future capital calls from
various third-party investments in exchange for an ownership interest in the related entities.
At December 31, 2018 and 2017, securities with carrying values of approximately $487 and $561, respectively, were deposited
by our insurance subsidiaries under requirements of regulatory authorities.
-94-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Securities Lending Programs
The fair value of the collateral received at the time of the securities lending transactions amounted to $604 and $454 at
December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The value of the collateral represented 102% and 104% of the market value of the
securities on loan at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The remaining contractual maturity of our securities lending agreements at December 31, 2018 is as follows:
 Overnight
and
Continuous Less than
30 days 30-90 days Greater
Than 90
days Total
Securities lending transactions     
United States Government securities $ 169 $ — $ — $ — $ 169
Corporate securities 396 — — — 396
Equity securities 39 — — — 39
Total $ 604 $ — $ — $ — $ 604
-95-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
5. Derivative Financial Instruments
We primarily invest in the following types of derivative financial instruments: interest rate swaps, futures, forward contracts,
put and call options, swaptions, embedded derivatives and warrants. We also enter into master netting agreements which reduce
credit risk by permitting net settlement of transactions. We had posted collateral of $1 and $12 related to our derivative financial
instruments at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
A summary of the aggregate contractual or notional amounts and estimated fair values related to derivative financial
instruments at December 31, 2018 and 2017 is as follows:
 Contractual/
Notional
Amount Balance Sheet LocationEstimated Fair Value
Asset (Liability)
December 31, 2018     
Hedging instruments     
Interest rate swaps - fixed to floating $ 1,200 Other assets/other liabilities $ 7$ (11)
     
Non-hedging instruments     
Interest rate swaps 164 Equity securities 4 (1)
Options 100 Other assets/other liabilities — —
Futures 415 Equity securities 5 (5)
Subtotal non-hedging 679 Subtotal non-hedging 9 (6)
Total derivatives $ 1,879 Total derivatives 16 (17)
   Amounts netted (14) 14
   Net derivatives $ 2$ (3)
     
December 31, 2017     
Hedging instruments     
Interest rate swaps - fixed to floating $ 1,235 Other assets/other liabilities $ 2$ (5)
Interest rate swaps - forward starting pay fixed 425 Other assets/other liabilities — $ (9)
Subtotal hedging 1,660 Subtotal hedging 2 (14)
     
Non-hedging instruments     
Interest rate swaps 171 Equity securities 1 (5)
Options 100 Other assets/other liabilities — —
Futures 117 Equity securities — (2)
Subtotal non-hedging 388 Subtotal non-hedging 1 (7)
Total derivatives $ 2,048 Total derivatives 3 (21)
   Amounts netted (1) 1
   Net derivatives $ 2$ (20)
-96-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Fair Value Hedges
We have entered into various interest rate swap contracts to convert a portion of our interest rate exposure on our long-term
debt from fixed rates to floating rates. The floating rates payable on all of our fair value hedges are benchmarked to the London
Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR. A summary of our outstanding fair value hedges at December 31, 2018 and 2017 is as follows:
Type of Fair Value HedgesYear
Entered
IntoOutstanding Notional Amount 
Interest Rate
Received  Expiration Date 2018 2017  
Interest rate swap 2018 $ 50 $ — 4.101% September 1, 2027
Interest rate swap 2018 450 — 3.300  January 15, 2023
Interest rate swap 2018 90 — 4.350  August 15, 2020
Interest rate swap 2017 50 50 4.350  August 15, 2020
Interest rate swap 2015 200 200 4.350  August 15, 2020
Interest rate swap 2014 150 150 4.350  August 15, 2020
Interest rate swap 2013 10 10 4.350  August 15, 2020
Interest rate swap 2012 200 200 4.350  August 15, 2020
Interest rate swap 2012 — 625 1.875  January 15, 2018
Total notional amount outstanding  $ 1,200 $ 1,235   
The following amounts were recorded on our consolidated balance sheets related to cumulative basis adjustments for fair value
hedges at December 31, 2018 and 2017:
Balance Sheet Classification in Which
Hedged Item is Included Carrying Amount of Hedged LiabilityCumulative Amount of Fair Value Hedging
Adjustment Included in the Carrying Amount of
the Hedged Liability
 2018  2017 2018 2017
Current portion of long term-debt $ 849 $ 1,275$ 7$ 2
Long-term debt  17,217 17,382 (11) (5)
Cash Flow Hedges
We have entered into a series of forward starting pay fixed interest rate swaps with the objective of eliminating the variability
of cash flows in the interest payments on anticipated future financings. During 2018, swaps in the notional amount of $425 were
terminated. We received an aggregate of $24 from the swap counter parties upon termination.
The unrecognized loss for all outstanding, expired and terminated cash flow hedges included in accumulated other
comprehensive loss, net of tax, was $246 and $233 at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. As of December 31, 2018, the
total amount of amortization over the next twelve months for all cash flow hedges is estimated to increase interest expense by
approximately $14. No amounts were excluded from effectiveness testing.
-97-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
A summary of the effect of cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive loss for the years ended December 31, 2018
and 2017 is as follows:
 Hedge
Loss
Recognized
in Other
Comprehensive
Income (Loss)Income Statement
Location of
Loss
Reclassification
from Accumulated
Other
Comprehensive Loss Hedge Loss
Reclassified from
Accumulated
Other
Comprehensive
Loss Type of Cash Flow Hedge  
Year ended December 31, 2018     
Forward starting pay fixed swaps $ (33) Interest expense  $ (14)
Year ended December 31, 2017     
Forward starting pay fixed swaps $ (112) Interest expense  $ (7)
Forward starting pay fixed swaps  Net realized (losses) gains on
financial instruments  $ (7)
A summary of the effect of cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive loss for the year ended December 31, 2016
is as follows:
 Effective Portion  
 Hedge
Loss
Recognized
in Other
Comprehensive
Income (Loss)Income Statement
Location of
Loss
Reclassification
from Accumulated
Other
Comprehensive LossHedge Loss
Reclassified from
Accumulated
Other
Comprehensive
Loss Ineffective Portion
Type of Cash Flow Hedge  Income Statement Location of
Loss RecognizedHedge Loss
Recognized
Year ended December
31, 2016     
Forward starting
pay fixed swaps$ (140)Interest expense$ (6) Net realized (losses) gains
on financial instruments $ (8)
-98-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Income Statement Relationship of Fair Value and Cash Flow Hedging
A summary of the relationship between the effects of fair value and cash flow hedges on the total amount of income and
expense presented in our consolidated statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 is as follows:
 Classification and Amount of Gain (Loss) Recognized in Income on Fair Value and Cash
Flow Hedging Relationships
 2018  2017  2016
 Net Realized
(Losses) Gains
on Financial
InstrumentsInterest
Expense Net Realized
(Losses) Gains
on Financial
Instruments Interest
Expense Net Realized
(Losses) Gains
on Financial
Instruments Interest
Expense
Total amount of income or expense in the
income statement in which the effects of fair
value or cash flow hedges are recorded $ (180)$(753) $ 145 $(739) $ 5 $(723)
        
Gain (loss) on fair value hedging relationships:       
Interest rate swaps:        
Hedged items — — — — —  (8)
Derivatives designated as hedging
instruments — — — — —  8
        
Loss on cash flow hedging relationships:        
Forward starting pay fixed swaps:        
Amount of loss reclassified from
accumulated other comprehensive loss
into net income — (14) — (7) —  (6)
Amount of loss reclassified from
accumulated other comprehensive loss
into net income due to ineffectiveness and
missed forecasted transactions — — (7) — (8) —
-99-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Non-Hedging Derivatives
A summary of the effect of non-hedging derivatives on our consolidated statements of income for the years ended
December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 is as follows:
Type of Non-hedging Derivatives  Income Statement Location of
Gain (Loss) RecognizedDerivative
Gain (Loss)
Recognized
Year ended December 31, 2018    
Interest rate swaps  Net realized (losses) gains on financial instruments $ 14
Options  Net realized (losses) gains on financial instruments 1
Futures  Net realized (losses) gains on financial instruments 8
Total   $ 23
Year ended December 31, 2017    
Interest rate swaps  Net realized (losses) gains on financial instruments $ (9)
Options  Net realized (losses) gains on financial instruments (36)
Futures  Net realized (losses) gains on financial instruments (3)
Total   $ (48)
Year ended December 31, 2016    
Interest rate swaps  Net realized (losses) gains on financial instruments $ 1
Options  Net realized (losses) gains on financial instruments (209)
Futures  Net realized (losses) gains on financial instruments 1
Total   $ (207)
6. Fair Value
Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets are categorized based upon the level of judgment
associated with the inputs used to measure their fair value. Level inputs, as defined by FASB guidance for fair value measurements
and disclosures, are as follows:
Level Input: Input Definition:
Level I  Inputs are unadjusted, quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets at the measurement date.
Level II
 Inputs other than quoted prices included in Level I that are observable for the asset or liability through
corroboration with market data at the measurement date.
Level III
 Unobservable inputs that reflect management’s best estimate of what market participants would use in pricing
the asset or liability at the measurement date.
The following methods, assumptions and inputs were used to determine the fair value of each class of the following assets and
liabilities recorded at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets:
Cash equivalents: Cash equivalents primarily consist of highly rated money market funds with maturities of three months or
less, and are purchased daily at par value with specified yield rates. Due to the high ratings and short-term nature of the funds, we
designate all cash equivalents as Level I.
Fixed maturity securities, available-for-sale: Fair values of available-for-sale fixed maturity securities are based on quoted
market prices, where available. These fair values are obtained primarily from third-party pricing services, which generally use
Level I or Level II inputs for the determination of fair value to facilitate fair value measurements and disclosures. Level II securities
primarily include corporate securities, securities from states, municipalities and political subdivisions, mortgage-backed securities,
United States Government securities and certain other asset-backed securities. For securities not actively traded, the pricing
services may use quoted market prices of comparable instruments or discounted cash flow analyses, incorporating inputs that are
currently observable in the markets for similar securities. We have controls
-100-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
in place to review the pricing services’ qualifications and procedures used to determine fair values. In addition, we periodically
review the pricing services’ pricing methodologies, data sources and pricing inputs to ensure the fair values obtained are
reasonable. Inputs that are often used in the valuation methodologies include, but are not limited to, broker quotes, benchmark
yields, credit spreads, default rates and prepayment speeds. We also have certain fixed maturity securities, primarily corporate debt
securities, that are designated Level III securities. For these securities, the valuation methodologies may incorporate broker quotes
or discounted cash flow analyses using assumptions for inputs such as expected cash flows, benchmark yields, credit spreads,
default rates and prepayment speeds that are not observable in the markets.
Equity securities: Fair values of equity securities are generally designated as Level I and are based on quoted market prices.
For certain equity securities, quoted market prices for the identical security are not always available and the fair value is estimated
by reference to similar securities for which quoted prices are available. These securities are designated Level II. We also have
certain equity securities, including private equity securities, for which the fair value is estimated based on each security’s current
condition and future cash flow projections. Such securities are designated Level III. The fair values of these private equity
securities are generally based on either broker quotes or discounted cash flow projections using assumptions for inputs such as the
weighted-average cost of capital, long-term revenue growth rates and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
and/or revenue multiples that are not observable in the markets.
Other invested assets, current: Other invested assets, current include securities held in rabbi trusts that are classified as trading.
These securities are designated Level I securities as fair values are based on quoted market prices.
Securities lending collateral: Fair values of securities lending collateral are based on quoted market prices, where available.
These fair values are obtained primarily from third-party pricing services, which generally use Level I or Level II inputs for the
determination of fair value, to facilitate fair value measurements and disclosures.
Derivatives: Fair values are based on the quoted market prices by the financial institution that is the counterparty to the
derivative transaction. We independently verify prices provided by the counterparties using valuation models that incorporate
market observable inputs for similar derivative transactions. Derivatives are designated as Level II securities.
In addition, the following methods and assumptions were used to determine the fair value of each class of pension benefit plan
assets and other benefit plan assets not defined above (see Note 10, “Retirement Benefits,” for fair values of benefit plan assets):
Mutual funds: Fair values are based on quoted market prices, which represent the net asset value, or NAV, of the shares held.
Common and collective trusts: Fair values of common/collective trusts that replicate traded money market funds are based on
cost, which approximates fair value. Fair values of common/collective trusts that invest in securities are valued at the NAV of the
shares held, where the trust applies fair value measurements to the underlying investments to determine the NAV.
Partnership interests: Fair values are estimated based on the plan’s proportionate share of the undistributed partners’ capital as
reported in audited financial statements of the partnership.
Contract with insurance company: Fair value of the contract in the insurance company general investment account is
determined by the insurance company based on the fair value of the underlying investments of the account.
Investment in DOL 103-12 trust: Fair value is based on the plan’s proportionate share of the fair value of investments held by
the trust, qualified as a Department of Labor Regulation 2520.103-12 entity, or DOL 103-12 trust, as reported in the audited
financial statements of the trust, where the trustee applies fair value measurements to the underlying investments of the trust.
Life insurance contracts: Fair value is based on the cash surrender value of the policies as reported by the insurer.
-101-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
A summary of fair value measurements by level for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis at
December 31, 2018 and 2017 is as follows:
 Level I Level II Level III Total
December 31, 2018    
Assets:    
Cash equivalents $1,815$ — $ — $1,815
Fixed maturity securities, available-for-sale:  
United States Government securities — 416 — 416
Government sponsored securities — 108 — 108
States, municipalities and political subdivisions, tax-exempt — 4,785 — 4,785
Corporate securities 2 7,648 287 7,937
Residential mortgage-backed securities — 2,744 6 2,750
Commercial mortgage-backed securities — 67 — 67
Other securities — 1,099 17 1,116
Total fixed maturity securities, available-for-sale 2 16,867 310 17,179
Equity securities:
Exchange traded funds 2 — — 2
Fixed maturity mutual funds — 557 — 557
Common equity securities 601 53 — 654
Private equity securities — — 313 313
Total equity securities 603 610 313 1,526
Other invested assets, current 21 — — 21
Securities lending collateral 314 290 — 604
Derivatives — 16 — 16
Total assets $2,755$17,783$ 623$21,161
Liabilities:    
Derivatives $ — $ (17)$ — $ (17)
Total liabilities $ — $ (17)$ — $ (17)
    
December 31, 2017    
Assets:    
Cash equivalents $1,956$ — $ — $1,956
Fixed maturity securities, available-for-sale:    
United States Government securities — 645 — 645
Government sponsored securities — 90 — 90
States, municipalities and political subdivisions, tax-exempt — 6,035 — 6,035
Corporate securities 25 7,232 229 7,486
Residential mortgage-backed securities — 2,534 5 2,539
Commercial mortgage-backed securities — 79 — 79
Other securities 75 973 16 1,064
Total fixed maturity securities, available-for-sale 100 17,588 250 17,938
Equity securities:
Exchange traded funds 1,300 — — 1,300
Fixed maturity mutual funds — 791 — 791
Common equity securities 1,147 107 — 1,254
Private equity securities — — 287 287
Total equity securities 2,447 898 287 3,632
Other invested assets, current 17 — — 17
Securities lending collateral 214 241 — 455
Derivatives — 3 — 3
Total assets $4,734$18,730$ 537$24,001
Liabilities:    
Derivatives $ — $ (21)$ — $ (21)
Total liabilities $ — $ (21)$ — $ (21)
-102-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis using Level III
inputs for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 is as follows:
 Corporate
Securities Residential
Mortgage-
backed
Securities Commercial
Mortgage-
backed
SecuritiesOther
Securities Equity
Securities Total
Year ended December 31, 2018       
Beginning balance at January 1, 2018 $ 229 $ 5 $ — $ 16 $ 287 $ 537
Total gains (losses):       
Recognized in net income 1 — — — (229) (228)
Recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss (5) — — — — (5)
Purchases 120 2 — 18 290 430
Sales (33) — — (1) (35) (69)
Settlements (88) (1) — (10) — (99)
Transfers into Level III 65 — — 9 — 74
Transfers out of Level III (2) — — (15) — (17)
Ending balance at December 31, 2018 $ 287 $ 6 $ — $ 17 $ 313 $ 623
Change in unrealized losses included in net income
related to assets still held at December 31, 2018 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 30 $ 30
       
Year ended December 31, 2017       
Beginning balance at January 1, 2017 $ 239 $ 11 $ — $ 43 $ 188 $ 481
Total (losses) gains:       
Recognized in net income (1) — — — — (1)
Recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss 3 — — — 11 14
Purchases 88 4 — 36 89 217
Sales (48) (5) — (1) (1) (55)
Settlements (64) (2) — (7) — (73)
Transfers into Level III 15 3 — 15 — 33
Transfers out of Level III (3) (6) — (70) — (79)
Ending balance at December 31, 2017 $ 229 $ 5 $ — $ 16 $ 287 $ 537
Change in unrealized losses included in net income
related to assets still held at December 31, 2017 $ (3) $ — $ — $ — $ — $ (3)
       
Year ended December 31, 2016       
Beginning balance at January 1, 2016 $ 186 $ — $ 2 $ 26 $ 102 $ 316
Total (losses) gains:       
Recognized in net income (3) — — — 1 (2)
Recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss (2) — — (1) (1) (4)
Purchases 170 4 — — 223 397
Sales (5) — — — (137) (142)
Settlements (57) — — (1) — (58)
Transfers into Level III 7 9 — 29 — 45
Transfers out of Level III (57) (2) (2) (10) — (71)
Ending balance at December 31, 2016 $ 239 $ 11 $ — $ 43 $ 188 $ 481
Change in unrealized losses included in net income
related to assets still held at December 31, 2016 $ (2) $ — $ — $ — $ — $ (2)
There were no individually material transfers into or out of Level III during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 or 2016.
Our valuation policy is determined by members of our treasury and accounting departments. Whenever possible, our policy is
to obtain quoted market prices in active markets to estimate fair values for recognition and disclosure purposes. Where quoted
market prices in active markets are not available, fair values are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses, broker quotes or
other valuation techniques. These techniques are significantly affected by our assumptions,
-103-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
including discount rates and estimates of future cash flows. Potential taxes and other transaction costs are not considered in
estimating fair values. Our valuation policy is generally to obtain quoted prices for each security from third-party pricing services,
which are derived through recently reported trades for identical or similar securities making adjustments through the reporting date
based upon available market observable information. As we are responsible for the determination of fair value, we perform analysis
on the prices received from the pricing services to determine whether the prices are reasonable estimates of fair value. This analysis
is performed by our internal treasury personnel who are familiar with our investment portfolios, the pricing services engaged and
the valuation techniques and inputs used. Our analysis includes procedures such as a review of month-to-month price fluctuations
and price comparisons to secondary pricing services. There were no adjustments to quoted market prices obtained from the pricing
services during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 or 2016.
Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis; that is, the instruments are not measured at fair
value on an ongoing basis but are subject to fair value adjustments only in certain circumstances. As disclosed in Note 3, “Business
Acquisitions,” we completed our acquisition of America’s 1st Choice on February 15, 2018. The net assets acquired in our
acquisition of America’s 1st Choice and resulting goodwill and other intangible assets were recorded at fair value primarily using
Level III inputs. The majority of America’s 1st Choice assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at their carrying values
as of the respective date of acquisition, as their carrying values approximated their fair values due to their short-term nature. The
fair values of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired in our acquisition of America’s 1st Choice were internally estimated
based on the income approach. The income approach estimates fair value based on the present value of the cash flows that the
assets could be expected to generate in the future. We developed internal estimates for the expected cash flows and discount rate in
the present value calculation. Other than the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in our acquisition of America’s 1st
Choice described above, there were no other material assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis during the
years ended December 31, 2018 or 2017.
In addition to the preceding disclosures on assets recorded at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets, FASB guidance also
requires the disclosure of fair values for certain other financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate fair value, whether
or not such values are recognized in the consolidated balance sheets.
Non-financial instruments such as real estate, property and equipment, other current assets, deferred income taxes, intangible
assets and certain financial instruments, such as policy liabilities, are excluded from the fair value disclosures. Therefore, the fair
value amounts cannot be aggregated to determine our underlying economic value.
The carrying amounts reported in the consolidated balance sheets for cash, accrued investment income, premium receivables,
self-funded receivables, other receivables, income taxes receivable, unearned income, accounts payable and accrued expenses,
security trades pending payable, securities lending payable and certain other current liabilities approximate fair value because of the
short-term nature of these items. These assets and liabilities are not listed in the table below.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instrument that is
recorded at its carrying value on the consolidated balance sheets:
Other invested assets, long-term: Other invested assets, long-term primarily include our investments in limited partnerships,
joint ventures and other non-controlled corporations, as well as the cash surrender value of corporate-owned life insurance policies.
Investments in limited partnerships, joint ventures and other non-controlled corporations are carried at our share in the entities’
undistributed earnings, which approximates fair value. The carrying value of corporate-owned life insurance policies represents the
cash surrender value as reported by the respective insurer, which approximates fair value.
Short-term borrowings: The fair value of our short-term borrowings is based on quoted market prices for the same or similar
debt, or if no quoted market prices were available, on the current market interest rates estimated to be available to us for debt of
similar terms and remaining maturities.
Long-term debt - commercial paper: The carrying amount for commercial paper approximates fair value, as the underlying
instruments have variable interest rates at market value.
Long-term debt - senior unsecured notes and surplus notes: The fair values of our notes are based on quoted market prices in
active markets for the same or similar debt, or, if no quoted market prices are available, on the current market observable rates
estimated to be available to us for debt of similar terms and remaining maturities.
-104-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Long-term debt—convertible debentures: The fair value of our convertible debentures is based on the quoted market price in
the active private market in which the convertible debentures trade.
A summary of the estimated fair values by level of each class of financial instrument that is recorded at its carrying value on
our consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows:
 
Carrying
ValueEstimated Fair Value
 Level I Level II Level III Total
December 31, 2018    
Assets:    
Other invested assets, long-term $ 3,726$ — $ — $ 3,726 $ 3,726
Liabilities:    
Debt:    
Short-term borrowings 1,145 — 1,145 — 1,145
Commercial paper 697 — 697 — 697
Notes 17,178 — 17,145 — 17,145
Convertible debentures 191 — 1,030 — 1,030
    
December 31, 2017    
Assets:    
Other invested assets, long-term $ 3,344$ — $ — $ 3,344 $ 3,344
Liabilities:    
Debt:    
Short-term borrowings 1,275 — 1,275 — 1,275
Commercial paper 804 — 804 — 804
Notes 17,593 — 18,815 — 18,815
Convertible debentures 260 — 1,216 — 1,216
-105-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
7. Income Taxes
The components of deferred income taxes at December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows:
 2018  2017
Deferred tax assets relating to:   
Retirement benefits $ 226 $ 211
Accrued expenses 301 279
Insurance reserves 96 136
Net operating loss carryforwards 7 4
Bad debt reserves 104 128
State income tax 32 33
Deferred compensation 20 24
Investment basis difference — 24
Unrealized losses on securities 41 —
Other 72 81
Total deferred tax assets 899 920
Deferred tax liabilities relating to:   
Investment basis difference 52 —
Unrealized gains on securities — 175
Intangible assets:   
Trademarks and state Medicaid licenses 1,529 1,529
Customer, provider and hospital relationships 290 186
Internally developed software and other amortization differences 461 324
Retirement benefits 183 170
Debt discount 27 28
State deferred tax 105 105
Depreciation and amortization 47 41
Other 165 89
Total deferred tax liabilities 2,859 2,647
Net deferred tax liability $ 1,960 $ 1,727
Significant components of the provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 consist of the
following:
 2018 2017  2016
Current tax expense:   
Federal $ 1,128$ 1,356 $ 1,862
State and local 78 39 94
Total current tax expense 1,206 1,395 1,956
Deferred tax expense (benefit) 112 (1,274) 129
Total income tax expense $ 1,318$ 121 $ 2,085
State and local current tax expense is reported gross of federal benefit, and includes amounts related to audit settlements,
uncertain tax positions, state tax credits and true up of prior years’ tax. Such items are included in multiple lines in the following
rate reconciliation table on a net of federal tax basis.
-106-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
A reconciliation of income tax expense recorded in the consolidated statements of income and amounts computed at the
statutory federal income tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 is as follows:
 2018  2017  2016
 Amount Percent Amount Percent Amount Percent
Amount at statutory rate $1,064 21.0 % $1,387 35.0 % $1,594 35.0 %
State and local income taxes net of federal tax
expense/benefit 63 1.2  (2) (0.1) 62 1.4
Tax exempt interest and dividends received
deduction (27) (0.5) (58) (1.4) (62) (1.4)
HIP Fee 324 6.4  — —  412 9.0
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (28) (0.6) (1,108) (27.9) — —
Other, net (78) (1.5) (98) (2.5) 79 1.8
Total income tax expense $1,318 26.0 % $ 121 3.1 % $2,085 45.8 %
During the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized income tax expense of $324, or $1.23 per diluted share, as a result
of the non-tax deductibility of the HIP Fee payment. On December 22, 2017, the federal government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act, which contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including, but not limited to, reducing the U.S. federal corporate
income tax rate from 35% to 21% and modifying or limiting many business deductions. At December 31, 2018, we have completed
our accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. There was no material change to our 2017 provisional
amount. In addition we reclassified, for our interim and annual reporting periods beginning on January 1, 2018, $91 of stranded tax
effects from accumulated other comprehensive loss to retained earnings on our consolidated balance sheet.
During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized an income tax benefit of $1,108, or $4.14 per diluted share, as a
result of the provisional amount recorded related to the remeasurement of our deferred tax balance as a result of the enactment of
the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The HIP Fee payment was suspended for 2017.
During the year ended December 31, 2016, we recognized income tax expense of $412, or $1.54 per diluted share, as a result
of the non-tax deductibility of the HIP Fee payments.
The change in the carrying amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits from uncertain tax positions for the years ended
December 31, 2018 and 2017 is as follows:
 2018  2017
Balance at January 1 $ 190 $ 131
Additions based on:  
Tax positions related to current year 35 3
Tax positions related to prior years 50 83
Reductions based on:  
Tax positions related to prior years (31) (18)
Settlements with taxing authorities (3) (9)
Balance at December 31 $ 241 $ 190
The table above excludes interest, net of related tax benefits, which is treated as income tax expense (benefit) under our
accounting policy. The interest is included in the amounts described in the following paragraph.
The amount of unrecognized tax benefits that would impact our effective tax rate in future periods, if recognized, was $237 and
$175 at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Also included in the table above, at December 31, 2018, is $2 that would be
recognized as an adjustment to additional paid-in capital, which would not affect our effective tax rate. In
-107-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
addition to the contingent liabilities included in the table above, during 2017 we filed protective state income tax refund claims of
approximately $310. There were no equivalent protective state income tax refund claims filed in 2018.
For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we recognized net interest expense of $15, $3 and $7, respectively.
We had accrued approximately $37 and $22 for the payment of interest at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
As of December 31, 2018, as further described below, certain tax years remain open to examination by the Internal Revenue
Service, or IRS, and various state and local authorities. In addition, we continue to discuss certain industry issues with the IRS. As a
result of these examinations and discussions, we have recorded amounts for uncertain tax positions. It is anticipated that the amount
of unrecognized tax benefits will change in the next twelve months due to possible settlements of audits and changes in temporary
items. However, the ultimate resolution of these items is dependent on the completion of negotiations with various taxing
authorities. While it is difficult to determine when other tax settlements will actually occur, it is reasonably possible that one could
occur in the next twelve months and our unrecognized tax benefits could change within a range of approximately $(54) to $(158). 
We are a member of the IRS Compliance Assurance Process, or CAP. The objective of CAP is to reduce taxpayer burden and
uncertainty while assuring the IRS of the accuracy of tax returns prior to filing, thereby reducing or eliminating the need for post-
filing examinations.
As of December 31, 2018, the IRS examination of our 2018 and 2017 tax years continues to be in process.
In certain states, we pay premium taxes in lieu of state income taxes. Premium taxes are reported with selling, general and
administrative expense.
At December 31, 2018, we had unused federal tax net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $20 to offset future
taxable income. The loss carryforwards expire in the years 2032 through 2037. During 2018, 2017 and 2016, federal income taxes
paid totaled $738, $1,503 and $1,665, respectively.
8. Property and Equipment
A summary of property and equipment at December 31, 2018 and 2017 is as follows:
 2018  2017
Computer software, purchased and internally developed $ 3,532 $ 2,613
Computer equipment, furniture and other equipment 1,266 1,080
Leasehold improvements 563 494
Building and improvements 169 168
Land and improvements 18 18
Property and equipment, gross 5,548 4,373
Accumulated depreciation and amortization (2,813) (2,198)
Property and equipment, net $ 2,735 $ 2,175
Depreciation expense for 2018, 2017 and 2016 was $124, $111 and $104, respectively. Amortization expense on computer
software and leasehold improvements for 2018, 2017 and 2016 was $528, $490 and $472, respectively, which includes
amortization expense on computer software, both purchased and internally developed, for 2018, 2017 and 2016 of $465, $435 and
$412, respectively. Capitalized costs related to the internal development of software of $3,226 and $2,373 at December 31, 2018
and 2017, respectively, are reported with computer software. 
During the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we recognized $5, $2 and $25, respectively, of impairments
related to computer software, primarily internally developed. We also recognized $20 of impairments related to computer
equipment in 2016. These impairments were due to project cancellation or asset replacement, some of which resulted from a
change in strategic focus needed to effectively manage business operations in a post-ACA environment.
-108-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
9. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
A summary of the change in the carrying amount of goodwill for our segments (see Note 19, “Segment Information”) for 2018
and 2017 is as follows:
 Commercial
and Specialty
Business  Government
Business Other  Total
Balance as of January 1, 2017 $ 11,818 $ 5,743$ — $ 17,561
Acquisitions — 1,659 11 1,670
Balance as of December 31, 2017 11,818 7,402 11 19,231
Acquisitions — 1,285 — 1,285
Adjustments (267) 266 (11) (12)
Balance as of December 31, 2018 $ 11,551 $ 8,953$ — $ 20,504
Accumulated impairment as of December 31, 2018 $ (41) $ — $ — $ (41)
The increase in goodwill in 2018 was primarily due to the acquisition of America's 1st Choice in February 2018. The increase
in goodwill in 2017 was primarily due to the acquisition of HealthSun in December 2017. For additional information regarding
these acquisitions, see Note 3, “Business Acquisitions”.
The adjustments in 2018 include measurement period adjustments for HealthSun as well as certain reclassifications made for
segment reporting. For additional information, see Note 19, “Segment Information”.
As required by FASB guidance, we completed annual impairment tests of existing goodwill and other intangible assets with
indefinite lives during 2018, 2017 and 2016. We perform these annual impairment tests during the fourth quarter. FASB guidance
also requires interim impairment testing to be performed when potential impairment indicators exist. These tests involve the use of
estimates related to the fair value of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives and require a significant degree of
management judgment and the use of subjective assumptions. Qualitative testing procedures include assessing our financial
performance, macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, various asset specific factors and entity specific
events. For quantitative testing, the fair values are estimated using the projected income and market valuation approaches,
incorporating Level III internal estimates for inputs, including, but not limited to, revenue projections, income projections, cash
flows and discount rates. We did not incur any impairment losses in 2018, 2017 or 2016, as the estimated fair values of our
reporting units were substantially in excess of their carrying values.
The components of other intangible assets as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows:
 2018 2017
Gross
Carrying
Amount Accumulated
Amortization Net
Carrying
AmountGross
Carrying
AmountAccumulated
Amortization Net
Carrying
Amount
Intangible assets with finite lives:        
Customer relationships $ 4,495 $ (3,185) $ 1,310$ 3,725$ (2,878) $ 847
Provider and hospital relationships 228 (85) 143 187 (73) 114
Other 352 (88) 264 184 (67) 117
Total 5,075 (3,358) 1,717 4,096 (3,018) 1,078
Intangible assets with indefinite lives:        
Blue Cross and Blue Shield and other
trademarks 6,299 — 6,299 6,299 — 6,299
State Medicaid licenses 991 — 991 991 — 991
Total 7,290 — 7,290 7,290 — 7,290
Other intangible assets $ 12,365 $ (3,358) $ 9,007$ 11,386$ (3,018) $ 8,368
-109-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
As of December 31, 2018, the estimated amortization expense for each of the five succeeding years is as follows: 2019, $337;
2020, $289; 2021, $243; 2022, $195; and 2023, $161.
10. Retirement Benefits
 We sponsor various non-contributory employee defined benefit plans through certain subsidiaries. 
The Anthem Cash Balance Plan A and the Anthem Cash Balance Plan B are cash balance pension plans covering certain
eligible employees of the affiliated companies that participate in these plans. Effective January 1, 2006, benefits were curtailed,
with the result that most participants stopped accruing benefits but continue to earn interest on benefits accrued prior to the
curtailment. Certain participants subject to collective bargaining and certain other participants who met grandfathering rules
continued to accrue benefits. Participants who did not receive credits and/or benefit accruals are included in the Anthem Cash
Balance Plan A, while employees who were still receiving credits and/or benefits participate in the Anthem Cash Balance Plan B.
Effective January 1, 2019, benefits under the Anthem Cash Balance Plan B were curtailed. All grandfathered participants will no
longer have pay credits added to their accounts but will continue to earn interest on existing account balances. Participants will
continue to earn years of pension service for vesting purposes. Several pension plans acquired through various corporate mergers
and acquisitions have been merged into these plans in prior years.
The UGS Pension Plan is a defined benefit pension plan with a cash balance component. The UGS Pension Plan covers
eligible employees of the affiliated companies that participate in the UGS Pension Plan. Effective January 1, 2004, benefits were
curtailed, with the result that most participants stopped accruing benefits but continue to earn interest on benefits previously
accrued. Certain employees subject to collective bargaining agreements and certain other employees who met grandfathering rules
continue to accrue benefits. Effective December 31, 2017, the UGS Pension Plan was merged into the Anthem Cash Balance Plan
B.
The Employees’ Retirement Plan of Blue Cross of California, or the BCC Plan, is a defined benefit pension plan that covers
eligible employees of Blue Cross of California who are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Effective January 1, 2007,
benefits were curtailed under the BCC Plan with the result that no Blue Cross of California employees hired or rehired after
December 31, 2006 are eligible to participate in the BCC Plan.
All of the plans’ assets consist primarily of common stocks, fixed maturity securities, investment funds and short-term
investments. The funding policies for all plans are to contribute amounts at least sufficient to meet the minimum funding
requirements set forth in the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or ERISA, including amendments by
the Pension Protection Act of 2006, and in accordance with income tax regulations, plus such additional amounts as are necessary
to provide assets sufficient to meet the benefits to be paid to plan participants.
We use a December 31 measurement date for determining benefit obligations and fair value of plan assets. 
The following tables disclose consolidated “pension benefits,” which include the defined benefit pension plans described
above, and consolidated “other benefits,” which include postretirement health and welfare benefits including medical, vision and
dental benefits offered to certain employees. Calculations were computed using assumptions at the December 31 measurement
dates.
The reconciliation of the benefit obligation is as follows:
 Pension Benefits Other Benefits
 2018  2017 2018 2017
Benefit obligation at beginning of year $ 1,872 $ 1,825$ 524$ 565
Service cost 8 10 1 1
Interest cost 55 66 15 21
Actuarial (gain) loss (70) 104 (57) (39)
Benefits paid (122) (133) (52) (24)
Benefit obligation at end of year $ 1,743 $ 1,872$ 431$ 524
-110-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
The changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
 Pension Benefits Other Benefits
 2018  2017 2018 2017
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year $ 2,012 $ 1,888$ 356$ 332
Actual return on plan assets (76) 253 (17) 41
Employer contributions 4 4 49 7
Benefits paid (122) (133) (52) (24)
Fair value of plan assets at end of year $ 1,818 $ 2,012$ 336$ 356
 The net amount included in the consolidated balance sheets is as follows:
 Pension Benefits Other Benefits
 2018  2017 2018  2017
Noncurrent assets $ 134 $ 202$ — $ —
Current liabilities (6) (5) — —
Noncurrent liabilities (53) (57) (95) (168)
Net amount at December 31 $ 75 $ 140$ (95) $ (168)
 The net amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive loss that have not been recognized as components of net
periodic benefit costs are as follows:
 Pension Benefits  Other Benefits
 2018 2017  2018 2017
Net actuarial loss $ 751$ 625 $ 58$ 77
Prior service cost (credit) 1 1 (34) (46)
Net amount before tax at December 31 $ 752$ 626 $ 24$ 31
The estimated net actuarial loss and prior service cost for the defined benefit pension plans that will be reclassified from
accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit costs over the next year are $16 and $0, respectively. The estimated
net actuarial loss and prior service credit for postretirement benefit plans that will be reclassified from accumulated other
comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit costs over the next year are $2 and $12, respectively. 
The accumulated benefit obligation for the defined benefit pension plans was $1,742 and $1,869 at December 31, 2018 and
2017, respectively. 
As of December 31, 2018, certain pension plans had accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets. For those same
plans, the projected benefit obligation was also in excess of plan assets. Such plans had a combined projected benefit obligation,
accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets of $94, $93 and $36, respectively. 
The weighted-average assumptions used in calculating the benefit obligations for all plans are as follows: 
 Pension Benefits  Other Benefits
 2018 2017  2018  2017
Discount rate 4.15% 3.44% 4.04% 3.42%
Rate of compensation increase 3.00% 3.00% 3.00% 3.00%
Expected rate of return on plan assets 7.44% 7.83% 7.00% 7.00%
-111-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
The components of net periodic benefit credit included in the consolidated statements of income are as follows:
 2018 2017  2016
Pension Benefits    
Service cost $ 8$ 10 $ 12
Interest cost 55 66 69
Expected return on assets (147) (147) (147)
Recognized actuarial loss 22 22 19
Amortization of prior service credit — — (1)
Settlement loss 5 7 7
Net periodic benefit credit $ (57)$ (42) $ (41)
    
Other Benefits    
Service cost $ 1$ 1 $ 2
Interest cost 15 21 22
Expected return on assets (24) (23) (22)
Recognized actuarial loss 3 11 12
Amortization of prior service credit (12) (13) (14)
Net periodic benefit credit $ (17)$ (3) $ —
During the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 we incurred total settlement losses of $5, $7 and $7, respectively,
as lump-sum payments exceeded the service cost and interest cost components of net periodic benefit cost for certain of our plans. 
The weighted-average assumptions used in calculating the net periodic benefit cost for all plans are as follows:
 2018  2017 2016
Pension Benefits    
Discount rate 3.44% 3.77% 3.92%
Rate of compensation increase 3.00% 3.00% 3.00%
Expected rate of return on plan assets 7.83% 7.95% 7.84%
    
Other Benefits    
Discount rate 3.42% 3.82% 4.01%
Rate of compensation increase 3.00% 3.00% 3.00%
Expected rate of return on plan assets 7.00% 7.00% 7.00%
The assumed healthcare cost trend rates used to measure the expected cost of pre-Medicare (those who are not currently
eligible for Medicare benefits) other benefits at our December 31, 2018 measurement date was 7.50% for 2019 with a gradual
decline to 4.50% by the year 2028. The assumed healthcare cost trend rates used to measure the expected cost of post-Medicare
(those who are currently eligible for Medicare benefits) other benefits at our December 31, 2018 measurement date was 6.00% for
2019 with a gradual decline to 4.50% by the year 2028. These estimated trend rates are subject to change in the future. The
healthcare cost trend rate assumption affects the amounts reported. For example, an increase in the assumed healthcare cost trend
rate of one percentage point would increase the postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2018 by $24 and would
increase service and interest costs by $1. Conversely, a decrease in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate of one percentage point
would decrease the postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2018 by $21 and would decrease service and interest costs
by $1. 
-112-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Plan assets include a diversified mix of investment grade fixed maturity securities, equity securities and alternative investments
across a range of sectors and levels of capitalization to maximize the long-term return for a prudent level of risk. The weighted-
average target allocation for pension benefit plan assets is 44% equity securities, 47% fixed maturity securities, and 9% to all other
types of investments. Equity securities primarily include a mix of domestic securities, foreign securities and mutual funds invested
in equities. Fixed maturity securities primarily include treasury securities, corporate bonds and asset-backed investments issued by
corporations and the U.S. government. Other types of investments primarily include partnership interests, collective trusts that
replicate money market funds and insurance contracts designed specifically for employee benefit plans. As of December 31, 2018,
there were no significant concentrations of investments in the pension benefit assets or other benefit assets. No plan assets were
invested in Anthem common stock.
Pension benefit assets and other benefit assets recorded at fair value are categorized based upon the level of judgment
associated with the inputs used to measure their fair value.
 The fair values of our pension benefit assets and other benefit assets by asset category and level inputs at December 31, 2018,
excluding cash, investment income receivable and amounts due to/from brokers, resulting in a net asset of $69, are as follows (see
Note 6, “Fair Value,” for additional information regarding the definition of level inputs):
 Level I Level II Level III Total
December 31, 2018      
Pension Benefit Assets:      
Equity securities:      
U.S. securities $ 488$ — $ — $ 488
Foreign securities 147 — — 147
Mutual funds 36 — — 36
Fixed maturity securities:      
Government securities — 248 — 248
Corporate securities — 347 — 347
Asset-backed securities — 153 — 153
Other types of investments:      
Partnership interests — — 187 187
Insurance company contracts — — 166 166
Total pension benefit assets $ 671$ 748$ 353 $ 1,772
      
Other Benefit Assets:      
Equity securities:      
U.S. securities $ 9$ — $ — $ 9
Foreign securities 3 — — 3
Mutual funds 27 — — 27
Fixed maturity securities:      
Government securities — 3 — 3
Corporate securities — 5 — 5
Asset-backed securities — 5 — 5
Other types of investments:      
Partnership interests — — 2 2
Life insurance contracts — — 249 249
Investment in DOL 103-12 trust — 10 — 10
Total other benefit assets $ 39$ 23$ 251 $ 313
-113-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
The fair values of our pension benefit assets and other benefit assets by asset category and level inputs at December 31, 2017,
excluding cash, investment income receivable and amounts due to/from brokers, resulting in a net asset of $14, are as follows:
 Level I Level II Level III Total
December 31, 2017    
Pension Benefit Assets:    
Equity securities:    
U.S. securities $ 584 $ 5$ — $ 589
Foreign securities 179 — — 179
Mutual funds 39 — — 39
Fixed maturity securities:    
Government securities 227 — — 227
Corporate securities — 377 — 377
Asset-backed securities — 140 — 140
Other types of investments:    
Common and collective trusts — 54 — 54
Partnership interests — — 221 221
Insurance company contracts — — 173 173
Total pension benefit assets $ 1,029 $ 576$ 394$ 1,999
    
Other Benefit Assets:    
Equity securities:    
U.S. securities $ 10 $ — $ — $ 10
Foreign securities 3 — — 3
Mutual funds 48 — — 48
Fixed maturity securities:    
Government securities 3 — — 3
Corporate securities — 5 — 5
Asset-backed securities — 5 — 5
Other types of investments:    
Common and collective trusts — 1 — 1
Life insurance contracts — — 269 269
Investment in DOL 103-12 trust — 11 — 11
Total other benefit assets $ 64 $ 22$ 269$ 355
-114-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of plan assets measured at fair value using Level III inputs for the years
ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 is as follows:
 Partnership
Interests Insurance
Company
Contracts Life
Insurance
Contracts Total
Year ended December 31, 2018      
Beginning balance at January 1, 2018 $ 221 $ 173 $ 269 $ 663
Actual return on plan assets relating to assets still held at the reporting date (10) (7) (15) (32)
Purchases — 8 — 8
Sales (22) (8) (5) (35)
Ending balance at December 31, 2018 $ 189 $ 166 $ 249 $ 604
      
Year ended December 31, 2017      
Beginning balance at January 1, 2017 $ 114 $ 173 $ 238 $ 525
Actual return on plan assets relating to assets still held at the reporting date
20 (1) 31 50
Purchases 126 10 — 136
Sales (39) (9) — (48)
Ending balance at December 31, 2017 $ 221 $ 173 $ 269 $ 663
      
Year ended December 31, 2016      
Beginning balance at January 1, 2016 $ 119 $ 174 $ 230 $ 523
Actual return on plan assets relating to assets still held at the reporting date (4) (3) 11 4
Purchases 18 9 — 27
Sales (19) (7) (3) (29)
Ending balance at December 31, 2016 $ 114 $ 173 $ 238 $ 525
During 2018, we transferred our United States Government securities from Level I to Level II based on the inputs used to
measure fair value. There were no transfers into or out of Level III during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 or 2016.
Our current funding strategy is to fund an amount at least equal to the minimum required funding as determined under ERISA
with consideration of maximum tax deductible amounts. We may elect to make discretionary contributions up to the maximum
amount deductible for income tax purposes. For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, no material contributions
were necessary to meet ERISA required funding levels. However, during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we
made tax deductible discretionary contributions to the pension benefit plans of $4, $4 and $11, respectively. Employer contributions
to other benefit plans represent discretionary contributions and do not include payments to retirees for current benefits.
-115-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Our estimated future payments for pension benefits and postretirement benefits, which reflect expected future service, as
appropriate, are as follows:
 Pension
BenefitsOther
Benefits
2019 $ 124$ 37
2020 121 37
2021 123 37
2022 123 37
2023 121 36
2024 - 2028 575 159
In addition to the defined benefit plans, we maintain the Anthem 401(k) Plan which is a qualified defined contribution plan
covering substantially all employees. Voluntary employee contributions are matched by us subject to certain limitations.
Contributions made by us totaled $211, $142 and $132 during 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Contributions in 2018 include
approximately $58 for a one time contribution made to employees following the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
11. Medical Claims Payable
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances for medical claims payable, by segment (see Note 19, “Segment
Information”), for the year ended December 31, 2018 is as follows:
 Commercial
& Specialty
BusinessGovernment
Business  Total
Gross medical claims payable, beginning of year $ 3,383$ 4,431 $ 7,814
Ceded medical claims payable, beginning of year (78) (27) (105)
Net medical claims payable, beginning of year 3,305 4,404 7,709
Business combinations and purchase adjustments — 199 199
Net incurred medical claims:   
Current year 24,094 45,487 69,581
Prior years redundancies (456) (474) (930)
Total net incurred medical claims 23,638 45,013 68,651
Net payments attributable to:   
Current year medical claims 21,633 41,115 62,748
Prior years medical claims 2,734 3,845 6,579
Total net payments 24,367 44,960 69,327
Net medical claims payable, end of year 2,576 4,656 7,232
Ceded medical claims payable, end of year 10 24 34
Gross medical claims payable, end of year $ 2,586$ 4,680 $ 7,266
-116-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances for medical claims payable, by segment, for the year ended
December 31, 2017 is as follows:
 Commercial
& Specialty
BusinessGovernment
Business  Total
Gross medical claims payable, beginning of year $ 3,247$ 4,409 $ 7,656
Ceded medical claims payable, beginning of year (521) (18) (539)
Net medical claims payable, beginning of year 2,726 4,391 7,117
Business combinations and purchase adjustments — 76 76
Net incurred medical claims:   
Current year 29,467 40,910 70,377
Prior years redundancies (462) (671) (1,133)
Total net incurred medical claims 29,005 40,239 69,244
Net payments attributable to:   
Current year medical claims 26,250 36,673 62,923
Prior years medical claims 2,176 3,629 5,805
Total net payments 28,426 40,302 68,728
Net medical claims payable, end of year 3,305 4,404 7,709
Ceded medical claims payable, end of year 78 27 105
Gross medical claims payable, end of year $ 3,383$ 4,431 $ 7,814
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances for medical claims payable, by segment, for the year ended December
31, 2016 is as follows:
 Commercial
& Specialty
BusinessGovernment
Business  Total
Gross medical claims payable, beginning of year $ 3,371$ 3,989 $ 7,360
Ceded medical claims payable, beginning of year (636) (10) (646)
Net medical claims payable, beginning of year 2,735 3,979 6,714
Net incurred medical claims:   
Current year 27,588 37,280 64,868
Prior years redundancies (463) (372) (835)
Total net incurred medical claims 27,125 36,908 64,033
Net payments attributable to:   
Current year medical claims 24,928 32,951 57,879
Prior years medical claims 2,206 3,545 5,751
Total net payments 27,134 36,496 63,630
Net medical claims payable, end of year 2,726 4,391 7,117
Ceded medical claims payable, end of year 521 18 539
Gross medical claims payable, end of year $ 3,247$ 4,409 $ 7,656
Amounts incurred related to prior years vary from previously estimated liabilities as the claims are ultimately settled.
Liabilities at any period-end are continually reviewed and re-estimated as information regarding actual claims payments, or runout,
becomes known. This information is compared to the originally established year end liability. Negative amounts reported for
incurred medical claims related to prior years result from claims being settled for amounts less than originally estimated. The prior
year redundancy of $930 shown above for the year ended December 31, 2018 represents an estimate
-117-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
based on paid claim activity from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018. Medical claim liabilities are usually described as having a
“short tail,” which means that they are generally paid within twelve months of the member receiving service from the provider.
Accordingly, the majority of the $930 redundancy relates to claims incurred in calendar year 2017.
The following table provides a summary of the two key assumptions having the most significant impact on our incurred but not
paid liability estimates for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, which are the completion and trend factors. These
two key assumptions can be influenced by utilization levels, unit costs, mix of business, benefit plan designs, provider
reimbursement levels, processing system conversions and changes, claim inventory levels, claim processing patterns, claim
submission patterns and operational changes resulting from business combinations.
 Favorable Developments
by Changes in Key Assumptions
 2018 2017  2016
Assumed trend factors $ (515)$ (631) $ (578)
Assumed completion factors (415) (502) (257)
Total $ (930)$ (1,133) $ (835)
The favorable development recognized in 2018 and 2017 resulted from trend and completion factors developing more
favorably than originally expected. The favorable development recognized in 2016 resulted primarily from trend factors in late
2015 developing more favorably than originally expected as well as a smaller but significant contribution from completion factor
development. 
The reconciliation of net incurred medical claims to benefit expense included in the consolidated statements of income is as
follows:
  Years Ended December 31
  2018 2017  2016
Net incurred medical claims:     
Commercial & Specialty Business  $ 23,638$ 29,005 $ 27,125
Government Business  45,013 40,239 36,908
Total net incurred medical claims  68,651 69,244 64,033
Quality improvement and other claims expense  3,244 2,992 2,801
Benefit expense  $ 71,895$ 72,236 $ 66,834
Incurred claims development, net of reinsurance, for the Commercial & Specialty Business for the years ended December 31,
2018, 2017 and 2016 is as follows:
Commercial & Specialty BusinessCumulative Incurred Claims and Allocated Claim
Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 2016 2017
Claim Years (Unaudited) (Unaudited) 2018
2016 & Prior $ 29,861$ 29,399$ 29,298
2017  29,467 29,112
2018   24,094
Total   $ 82,504
-118-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Paid claims development, net of reinsurance, for the Commercial & Specialty Business for the years ended December 31,
2018, 2017 and 2016 is as follows:
Commercial & Specialty BusinessCumulative Paid Claims and Allocated Claim
Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 2016 2017  
Claim Years (Unaudited) (Unaudited) 2018
2016 & Prior $ 27,135$ 29,311$ 29,289
2017  26,250 29,006
2018   21,633
Total   $ 79,928
At December 31, 2018, the total of incurred but not reported liabilities plus expected development on reported claims for the
Commercial & Specialty Business was $9, $106 and $2,461 for the claim years 2016 and prior, 2017 and 2018, respectively.
At December 31, 2018, the cumulative number of reported claims for the Commercial & Specialty Business was 120, 117 and
85 for the claim years 2016 and prior, 2017 and 2018, respectively.
Incurred claims development, net of reinsurance, for the Government Business as of and for the years ended December 31,
2018, 2017 and 2016 is as follows:
Government BusinessCumulative Incurred Claims and Allocated Claim
Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 2016 2017
Claim Years (Unaudited) (Unaudited) 2018
2016 & Prior $ 40,888$ 40,217$ 40,133
2017  40,986 40,596
2018   45,686
Total   $ 126,415
Paid claims development, net of reinsurance, for the Government Business as of and for the years ended December 31, 2018,
2017 and 2016 is as follows:
Government BusinessCumulative Paid Claims and Allocated Claim
Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 2016 2017
Claim Years (Unaudited) (Unaudited) 2018
2016 & Prior $ 36,497$ 40,126$ 40,103
2017  36,673 40,541
2018   41,115
Total   $ 121,759
At December 31, 2018, the total of incurred but not reported liabilities plus expected development on reported claims for the
Government Business was $30, $55 and $4,571 for the claim years 2016 and prior, 2017 and 2018, respectively.
At December 31, 2018, the cumulative number of reported claims for the Government Business was 209, 211 and 205 for the
claim years 2016 and prior, 2017 and 2018, respectively.
The information about incurred claims development, paid claims development and cumulative number of reported claims for
the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017, for both the Commercial & Specialty Business and Government Business, is
unaudited and presented as supplementary information.
-119-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
The cumulative number of reported claims for each claim year, for both the Commercial & Specialty Business and
Government Business, have been developed using historical data captured by our claim payment systems. The provided claim
amounts are not a precise tool for understanding utilization of medical services. They could be impacted by a variety of factors
including changes in provider billing practices, provider reimbursement arrangements, mix of services, benefit design or processing
systems. The cumulative number of reported claims has been provided to comply with FASB accounting standards and is not used
by management in its claims analysis. Our cumulative number of reported claims may not be comparable to similar measures
reported by other health benefits companies.
The reconciliation of the Commercial & Specialty Business and Government Business incurred and paid claims development
information for the three years ended December 31, 2018, reflected in the tables above, to the consolidated ending balance for
medical claims payable included in the consolidated balance sheet, as of December 31, 2018, is as follows:
 Commercial
& Specialty
BusinessGovernment
Business Total
Cumulative incurred claims and allocated claim adjustment expenses, net of
reinsurance $ 82,504$ 126,415$ 208,919
Less: Cumulative paid claims and allocated claim adjustment expenses, net of
reinsurance 79,928 121,759 201,687
Net medical claims payable, end of year 2,576 4,656 7,232
Ceded medical claims payable, end of year 10 24 34
Insurance lines other than short duration — 188 188
Gross medical claims payable, end of year $ 2,586$ 4,868$ 7,454
12. Debt
Short-term Borrowings
We are a member, through certain subsidiaries, of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis, the Federal Home Loan Bank
of Cincinnati and the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta, or collectively, the FHLBs. As a member we have the ability to obtain
short-term cash advances, subject to certain minimum collateral requirements. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, $645 and $825,
respectively, were outstanding under our short-term FHLB borrowings. These outstanding short-term FHLB borrowings at
December 31, 2018 and 2017 had fixed interest rates of 2.458% and 1.386%, respectively.
Through certain subsidiaries, we have entered into multiple 364-day lines of credit with separate lenders for general corporate
purposes. In 2018, we increased the combined borrowing capacity on these line of credit from $450 to $600. The interest rate on
each line of credit is based on the LIBOR rate plus a predetermined rate. Our ability to borrow under the lines of credit is subject to
compliance with certain covenants. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, $500 and $450, respectively, were outstanding under our 364-
day lines of credit.
-120-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Long-term Debt
The carrying value of long-term debt at December 31, 2018 and 2017 consists of the following:
 2018  2017
Senior unsecured notes:  
1.875%, due 2018 $ — $ 625
2.300%, due 2018 — 649
2.250%, due 2019 849 847
2.500%, due 2020 897 895
4.350%, due 2020 688 693
3.700%, due 2021 698 698
2.950%, due 2022 747 746
3.125%, due 2022 846 845
3.300%, due 2023 1,000 994
3.350%, due 2024 846 845
3.500%, due 2024 794 793
3.650%, due 2027 1,589 1,589
4.101%, due 2028 1,250 —
5.950%, due 2034 334 334
5.850%, due 2036 396 396
6.375%, due 2037 366 366
5.800%, due 2040 124 123
4.625%, due 2042 887 887
4.650%, due 2043 986 986
4.650%, due 2044 791 791
5.100%, due 2044 594 594
4.375%, due 2047 1,386 1,386
4.550%, due 2048 838 —
4.850%, due 2054 247 247
Remarketable subordinated notes:  
1.900%, due 2028 — 1,239
Surplus note:  
9.000%, due 2027 25 25
Senior convertible debentures:  
2.750%, due 2042 191 260
Variable rate debt:  
Commercial paper program 697 804
Total long-term debt 18,066 18,657
Current portion of long-term debt (849) (1,275)
Long-term debt, less current portion $ 17,217 $ 17,382
All debt is a direct obligation of Anthem, Inc., except for the surplus note, the FHLB borrowings and the lines of credit.
-121-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
We generally issue senior unsecured notes, or Notes, for long-term borrowing purposes. Certain of these Notes may have a call
feature that allows us to redeem the Notes at any time at our option and/or a put feature that allows a Note holder to redeem the
Notes upon the occurrence of both a change in control event and a downgrade of the Notes below an investment grade rating.
On July 16, 2018, we repaid, at maturity, the $650 outstanding balance of our 2.300% senior unsecured notes. On January 15,
2018, we repaid, at maturity, the $625 outstanding balance of our 1.875% senior unsecured notes.
On May 1, 2018, we settled our Equity Units stock purchase contracts at a settlement rate of 0.2412 shares of our common
stock, using a market value formula set forth in the Equity Units purchase contracts. This resulted in the issuance of approximately
6 shares. We had issued 25 Equity Units on May 12, 2015, pursuant to an underwriting agreement dated May 6, 2015, in an
aggregate principal amount of $1,250. Each Equity Unit had a stated amount of $50 (whole dollars) and consisted of a purchase
contract obligating the holder to purchase a certain number of shares of our common stock on May 1, 2018, subject to earlier
termination or settlement, for a price in cash of $50 (whole dollars); and a 5% undivided beneficial ownership interest in $1,000
(whole dollars) principal amount of our 1.900% remarketable subordinated notes, or RSNs, due 2028. At December 31, 2017, the
stock purchase contract liability was $21 and was included in other current liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities with a
corresponding offset to additional paid-in capital in our consolidated balance sheet. Contract adjustment payments commenced on
August 1, 2015 at a rate of 3.350% per annum on the stated amount per Equity Unit. The RSNs were pledged as collateral to secure
the purchase of common stock under the related stock purchase contracts. Quarterly interest payments on the RSNs commenced on
August 1, 2015. On March 2, 2018, we remarketed the RSNs and used the proceeds to purchase U.S. Treasury securities that were
pledged to secure the stock purchase obligations of the holders of the Equity Units. The purchasers of the RSNs transferred the
RSNs to us in exchange for $1,250 principal amount of our 4.101% senior notes due 2028, or the 2028 Notes, and a cash payment
of $4. We cancelled the RSNs upon receipt and recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $18. At the remarketing, we also
issued $850 aggregate principal amount of 4.550% notes due 2048, or the 2048 Notes, under our shelf registration statement. We
used the proceeds from the 2048 Notes for working capital and general corporate purposes. Interest on the 2028 Notes and the 2048
Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on March 1 and September 1 of each year, commencing on September 1, 2018.
On November 21, 2017, we issued $900 aggregate principal amount of 2.500% Notes due 2020, $750 aggregate principal
amount of 2.950% Notes due 2022, $850 aggregate principal amount of 3.350% Notes due 2024, $1,600 aggregate principal
amount of 3.650% Notes due 2027 and $1,400 aggregate principal amount of 4.375% Notes due 2047 under our shelf registration
statement. Interest on the 2020 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on May 21 and November 21 of each year, commencing
on May 21, 2018. Interest on the 2022 Notes, the 2024 Notes, the 2027 Notes and the 2047 Notes is payable semi-annually in
arrears on June 1 and December 1 of each year, commencing on June 1, 2018. The net proceeds were used to fund the acquisitions
of HealthSun and America’s 1st Choice; redemption of the 7.000% Notes due 2019, discussed below; and redemption of the Tender
Notes, discussed below.
On November 14, 2017, we initiated a cash tender offer to purchase any and all of our 7.000% Notes due 2019, or the Any and
All Notes, and certain of our 5.950% Notes due 2034, 5.850% Notes due 2036, 6.375% Notes due 2037, 5.800% Notes due 2040
and 5.100% Notes due 2044, or the Maximum Tender Offer Notes, and collectively with the Any and All Notes, the Tender Notes.
On November 21, 2017, we repurchased $185 aggregate principal amount of the Any and All Notes, plus applicable premium and
accrued and unpaid interest, for cash totaling $199. On November 30, 2017, we repurchased $836 aggregate principal amount of
the Maximum Tender Offer Notes, plus applicable premium and accrued and unpaid interest, for cash totaling $1,095. We
recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $266 for the repurchase of the Tender Notes.
On December 14, 2017, we redeemed the $255 remaining outstanding principal balance of our 7.000% Notes due 2019, plus
applicable premium for early redemption and accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, for cash totaling $275. We
recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $14 for the repurchase of these Notes.
On June 15, 2017 and February 15, 2017, we repaid, upon maturity, the $529 outstanding balance of our 5.875% Notes and the
$400 outstanding balance of our 2.375% Notes, respectively.
The surplus note is an unsecured obligation of Anthem Insurance Companies, Inc., or Anthem Insurance, a wholly owned
subsidiary, and is subordinate in right of payment to all of Anthem Insurance’s existing and future indebtedness. Any payment of
interest or principal on the surplus note may be made only with the prior approval of the Indiana Department of Insurance,
-122-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
or IDOI, and only out of capital and surplus funds of Anthem Insurance that the IDOI determines to be available for the payment
under Indiana insurance laws.
We have a senior revolving credit facility, or the Facility, with a group of lenders for general corporate purposes. The Facility
provides credit up to $3,500 and matures on August 25, 2020. The interest rate on the Facility is based on either the LIBOR rate or
a base rate plus a predetermined rate based on our public debt rating at the date of utilization. Our ability to borrow under the
Facility is subject to compliance with certain covenants. There were no amounts outstanding under the Facility at December 31,
2018 or 2017.
We have an authorized commercial paper program of up to $2,500, the proceeds of which may be used for general corporate
purposes. At December 31, 2018, we had $697 outstanding under our commercial paper program with a weighted-average interest
rate of 2.8270%. At December 31, 2017, we had $804 outstanding under our commercial paper program with a weighted-average
interest rate of 1.8247%. Commercial paper borrowings have been classified as long-term debt at December 31, 2018 and 2017, as
our general practice and intent is to replace short-term commercial paper outstanding at expiration with additional short-term
commercial paper for an uninterrupted period extending for more than one year, and we have the ability to redeem our commercial
paper with borrowings under the Facility described above.
During the year ended December 31, 2015, we entered into a bridge facility commitment letter and a joinder agreement, and a
term loan facility, to finance a portion of the consideration under the now terminated Cigna Merger Agreement. In January 2017,
we reduced the size of the bridge facility from $22,500 to $19,500 and extended the termination date under the Cigna Merger
Agreement, as well as the availability of commitments under the bridge facility and term loan facility, to April 30, 2017. We
recorded $108 and $104 of interest expense related to the amortization of the bridge loan facility and other related fees during the
years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The commitment of the lenders to provide the bridge facility and term loan
facility expired on April 30, 2017.
Convertible Debentures
On October 9, 2012, we issued $1,500 of senior convertible debentures, or the Debentures, in a private offering to qualified
institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. The Debentures are
governed by an indenture dated as of October 9, 2012 between us and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as
trustee, or the Indenture. The Debentures bear interest at a rate of 2.750% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears in cash on
April 15 and October 15 of each year, and mature on October 15, 2042, unless earlier redeemed, repurchased or converted into
shares of common stock at the applicable conversion rate. The Debentures also have a contingent interest feature that will require
us to pay additional interest based on certain thresholds and for certain events, as defined in the Indenture, beginning on
October 15, 2022.
Holders may convert their Debentures at their option prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding
April 15, 2042, only under the following circumstances: (1) during any fiscal quarter if the last reported sale price of our common
stock for at least 20 trading days during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding
fiscal quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the applicable conversion price on each applicable trading day; (2) during the five
business day period after any 10 consecutive trading day period, or the measurement period, in which the trading price per $1,000
(whole dollars) principal amount of Debentures for each trading day of that measurement period was less than 98% of the product
of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the applicable conversion rate on each such day; (3) if we call any or all of
the Debentures for redemption, at any time prior to the close of business on the third scheduled trading day prior to the redemption
date; or (4) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events, as defined in the Indenture. On and after April 15, 2042 and until the
close of business on the third scheduled trading day immediately preceding the Debentures’ maturity date of October 15, 2042,
holders may convert their Debentures into common stock at any time irrespective of the preceding circumstances. The Debentures
are redeemable at our option at any time on or after October 20, 2022, upon the occurrence of certain events, as defined in the
Indenture.
Upon conversion of the Debentures, we will deliver cash up to the aggregate principal amount of the Debentures converted.
With respect to any conversion obligation in excess of the aggregate principal amount of the Debentures converted, we have the
option to settle the excess with cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof based on a daily conversion value,
determined in accordance with the Indenture. The initial conversion rate for the Debentures was 13.2319 shares of our common
stock per Debenture, which represented a 25% conversion premium based on the closing
-123-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
price of $60.46 per share of our common stock on October 2, 2012 (the date the Debentures’ terms were finalized) and is equivalent
to an initial conversion price of $75.575 per share of our common stock.
During the year ended December 31, 2018, $109 aggregate principal amount of the Debentures were surrendered for
conversion by certain holders in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Indenture. We elected to settle the excess of the
principal amount of the conversions with cash for total payments of $402. We recognized a gain on the extinguishment of debt
related to the Debentures of $7, based on the fair values of the debt on the conversion settlement dates. During the year ended
December 31, 2017, $117 aggregate principal amount of the Debentures was surrendered for conversion. We elected to settle the
excess of the principal amount of the conversions with cash for total payments of $345 and recognized a loss on the extinguishment
of debt of $2. There were no repurchases or material conversions during the year ended December 31, 2016.
As of December 31, 2018, our common stock was last traded at a price of $262.63 per share. If the remaining Debentures had
been converted or matured at December 31, 2018, we would have been obligated to pay the principal of the Debentures plus an
amount in cash or shares equal to $757. The Debentures and underlying shares of our common stock have not been and will not be
registered under the Securities Act, or any state securities laws, and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent
registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements.
We have accounted for the Debentures in accordance with the cash conversion guidance in FASB guidance for debt with
conversion and other options. As a result, the value of the embedded conversion option, net of deferred taxes and equity issuance
costs, has been bifurcated from its debt host and recorded as a component of additional paid-in capital in our consolidated balance
sheets.
The following table summarizes, at December 31, 2018, the related balances, conversion rate and conversion price of the
Debentures:
Outstanding principal amount $ 287
Unamortized debt discount $ 93
Net debt carrying amount $ 191
Equity component carrying amount $ 104
Conversion rate (shares of common stock per $1,000 of principal amount) 13.8474
Effective conversion price (per $1,000 of principal amount) $ 72.2151
The remaining amortization period of the unamortized debt discount as of December 31, 2018 is approximately 24 years. The
unamortized discount will be amortized into interest expense using the effective interest method based on an effective interest rate
of 5.130%, which represents the market interest rate for a comparable debt instrument that does not have a conversion feature.
During the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we recognized $12, $17 and $17, respectively, of interest expense
related to the Debentures, of which $10, $14 and $14, respectively, represented interest expense recognized at the stated interest
rate of 2.750% and $2, $3 and $3, respectively, represented interest expense resulting from amortization of the debt discount.
Total interest paid during 2018, 2017 and 2016 was $728, $778, and $595, respectively. 
We were in compliance with all applicable covenants under all of our outstanding debt agreements at December 31, 2018 and
2017.
Future maturities of all long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2018 are as follows: 2019, $1,546; 2020, $1,585; 2021,
$698; 2022, $1,593; 2023, $1,000 and thereafter, $11,644.
13. Commitments and Contingencies
Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings
In the ordinary course of business, we are defendants in, or parties to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions or
proceedings. To the extent a plaintiff or plaintiffs in the following cases have specified in their complaint or in other court filings
the amount of damages being sought, we have noted those alleged damages in the descriptions below. With respect to
-124-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
the cases described below, we contest liability and/or the amount of damages in each matter and believe we have meritorious
defenses.
Where available information indicates that it is probable that a loss has been incurred as of the date of the consolidated
financial statements and we can reasonably estimate the amount of that loss, we accrue the estimated loss by a charge to income. In
many proceedings, however, it is difficult to determine whether any loss is probable or reasonably possible. In addition, even where
loss is possible or an exposure to loss exists in excess of the liability already accrued with respect to a previously identified loss
contingency, it is not always possible to reasonably estimate the amount of the possible loss or range of loss.
With respect to many of the proceedings to which we are a party, we cannot provide an estimate of the possible losses, or the
range of possible losses in excess of the amount, if any, accrued, for various reasons, including but not limited to some or all of the
following: (i) there are novel or unsettled legal issues presented, (ii) the proceedings are in early stages, (iii) there is uncertainty as
to the likelihood of a class being certified or decertified or the ultimate size and scope of the class, (iv) there is uncertainty as to the
outcome of pending appeals or motions, (v) there are significant factual issues to be resolved, and/or (vi) in many cases, the
plaintiffs have not specified damages in their complaint or in court filings. For those legal proceedings where a loss is probable, or
reasonably possible, and for which it is possible to reasonably estimate the amount of the possible loss or range of losses, we
currently believe that the range of possible losses, in excess of established reserves is, in the aggregate, from $0 to approximately
$250 at December 31, 2018. This estimated aggregate range of reasonably possible losses is based upon currently available
information taking into account our best estimate of such losses for which such an estimate can be made.
Blue Cross Blue Shield Antitrust Litigation
We are a defendant in multiple lawsuits that were initially filed in 2012 against the BCBSA and Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield
licensees, or Blue plans, across the country. The cases were consolidated into a single multi-district proceeding captioned In re Blue
Cross Blue Shield Antitrust Litigation that is pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama, or the
Court. Generally, the suits allege that the BCBSA and the Blue plans have conspired to horizontally allocate geographic markets
through license agreements, best efforts rules that limit the percentage of non-Blue revenue of each plan, restrictions on
acquisitions rules governing the BlueCard and National Accounts programs and other arrangements in violation of the Sherman
Antitrust Act, or Sherman Act, and related state laws. The cases were brought by two putative nationwide classes of plaintiffs,
health plan subscribers and providers, and actions filed in Alabama, Arkansas, California, Florida, Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas,
Kansas City, Louisiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, New Hampshire, North Carolina, North
Dakota, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Vermont and Virginia have been
consolidated into the multi-district proceeding.
In response to cross motions for partial summary judgment by plaintiffs and defendants, the Court issued an order in April
2018 determining that the defendants’ aggregation of geographic market allocations and output restrictions are to be analyzed under
a per se standard of review, and the BlueCard program and other alleged Section 1 Sherman Act violations are to be analyzed under
the rule of reason standard of review. The Court also found that there remain genuine issues of material fact as to whether
defendants operate as a single entity with regard to the enforcement of the Blue Cross Blue Shield trademarks. In June 2018, in
response to a motion filed by the defendants, the Court certified its April order for interlocutory appeal to the United States Court of
Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, or the Eleventh Circuit. Also in June 2018, the defendants filed, with the Eleventh Circuit Court
of Appeals, a petition for permission to appeal the April order, which Plaintiffs opposed. In December 2018, the Eleventh Circuit
denied the petition. No dates have been set for either the final pretrial conferences or trials in these actions. We intend to vigorously
defend these suits; however, their ultimate outcome cannot be presently determined.
Blue Cross of California Taxation Litigation
In July 2013, our California affiliate Blue Cross of California (doing business as Anthem Blue Cross), or BCC, was named as a
defendant in a California taxpayer action filed in Los Angeles County Superior Court, captioned Michael D. Myers v. State Board
of Equalization, et al. This action was brought under a California statute that permits an individual taxpayer to sue a governmental
agency when the taxpayer believes the agency has failed to enforce governing law. Plaintiff contends that BCC, a licensed Health
Care Service Plan, or HCSP, is an “insurer” for purposes of taxation despite acknowledging it is not an “insurer” under regulatory
law. At the time, under California law, “insurers” were required to pay
-125-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
a gross premiums tax, or GPT, calculated as 2.35% on gross premiums. As a licensed HCSP, BCC has paid the California Corporate
Franchise Tax, or CFT, the tax paid by California businesses generally. Plaintiff contends that BCC must pay the GPT rather than
the CFT, and seeks a writ of mandate directing the taxing agencies to collect the GPT and an order requiring BCC to pay GPT back
taxes, interest, and penalties, for the eight-year period prior to the filing of the complaint.
In March 2018, the Court denied BCC’s motion for judgment on the pleadings and similar motions brought by other entities.
We filed a writ of mandate in the California Court of Appeal. The Court of Appeal accepted our writ, and we anticipate that a
hearing on our writ will occur in mid-2019. Because GPT is constitutionally imposed in lieu of certain other taxes, BCC has filed
protective tax refund claims with the City of Los Angeles, the California Department of Health Care Services and the Franchise Tax
Board to protect its rights to recover certain taxes previously paid should BCC eventually be determined to be subject to the GPT
for the tax periods at issue in the litigation. BCC intends to vigorously defend this suit; however, its ultimate outcome cannot be
presently determined.
Express Scripts, Inc. Pharmacy Benefit Management Litigation
In March 2016, we filed a lawsuit against Express Scripts, Inc., or Express Scripts, our vendor for pharmacy benefit
management, or PBM, services, captioned Anthem, Inc. v. Express Scripts, Inc., in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District
of New York. The lawsuit seeks to recover over $14,800 in damages for pharmacy pricing that is higher than competitive
benchmark pricing under the agreement between the parties, or ESI PBM Agreement, over $158 in damages related to operational
breaches, as well as various declarations under the ESI PBM Agreement between the parties, including that Express Scripts: (i)
breached its obligation to negotiate in good faith and to agree in writing to new pricing terms; (ii) is required to provide competitive
benchmark pricing to us through the term of the ESI PBM Agreement; (iii) has breached the ESI PBM Agreement and that we can
terminate the ESI PBM Agreement; and (iv) is required under the PBM Agreement to provide post-termination services, at
competitive benchmark pricing, for one year following any termination.
Express Scripts has disputed our contractual claims and is seeking declaratory judgments: (i) regarding the timing of the
periodic pricing review under the ESI PBM Agreement; (ii) that it has no obligation to ensure that we receive any specific level of
pricing, that we have no contractual right to any change in pricing under the ESI PBM Agreement and that its sole obligation is to
negotiate proposed pricing terms in good faith; and (iii) that we do not have the right to terminate the ESI PBM Agreement. In the
alternative, Express Scripts claims that we have been unjustly enriched by its payment of $4,675 at the time of the ESI PBM
Agreement. In March 2017, the court granted our motion to dismiss Express Scripts’ counterclaims for (i) breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and (ii) unjust enrichment with prejudice. The only remaining claims are for breach of
contract and declaratory relief. We intend to vigorously pursue our claims and defend against any counterclaims, which we believe
are without merit; however, the ultimate outcome cannot be presently determined.
ERISA Litigation
We are a defendant in a class action lawsuit that was initially filed in June 2016 against Anthem, Inc. and Express Scripts,
which has been consolidated into a single multi-district lawsuit captioned In Re Express Scripts/Anthem ERISA Litigation, in the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The consolidated complaint was filed by plaintiffs against Express
Scripts and us on behalf of all persons who are participants in or beneficiaries of any ERISA or non-ERISA healthcare plan from
December 1, 2009 to the present in which we provided prescription drug benefits through the ESI PBM Agreement and paid a
percentage based co-insurance payment in the course of using that prescription drug benefit. The plaintiffs allege that we breached
our duties, either under ERISA or with respect to the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing implied in the health plans, (i)
by failing to adequately monitor Express Scripts’ pricing under the ESI PBM Agreement and (ii) by placing our own pecuniary
interest above the best interests of our insureds by allegedly agreeing to higher pricing in the ESI PBM Agreement in exchange for
the purchase price for our NextRx PBM business, and (iii) with respect to the non-ERISA members, by negotiating and entering
into the ESI PBM Agreement that was allegedly detrimental to the interests of such non-ERISA members. Plaintiffs seek to hold us
and Express Scripts jointly and severally liable and to recover all losses suffered by the proposed class, equitable relief,
disgorgement of alleged ill-gotten gains, injunctive relief, attorney’s fees and costs and interest.
In April 2017, we filed a motion to dismiss the claims brought against us, and it was granted, without prejudice, in January
2018. Plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which was
-126-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
heard in October 2018. We intend to vigorously defend this suit; however, its ultimate outcome cannot be presently determined.
Cigna Corporation Merger Litigation
In July 2015, we and Cigna announced that we entered into the Cigna Merger Agreement, pursuant to which we would acquire
all outstanding shares of Cigna. In July 2016, the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, along with certain state attorneys general,
filed a civil antitrust lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, or District Court, seeking to block the merger.
In February 2017, Cigna purported to terminate the Cigna Merger Agreement and commenced litigation against us in the Delaware
Court of Chancery, or Delaware Court, seeking damages, including the $1,850 termination fee pursuant to the terms of the Cigna
Merger Agreement, and a declaratory judgment that its purported termination of the Cigna Merger Agreement was lawful, among
other claims, which is captioned Cigna Corp. v. Anthem Inc.
Also in February 2017, we initiated our own litigation against Cigna in the Delaware Court seeking a temporary restraining
order to enjoin Cigna from terminating the Cigna Merger Agreement, specific performance compelling Cigna to comply with the
Cigna Merger Agreement and damages, which is captioned Anthem Inc. v. Cigna Corp. In April 2017, the U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia affirmed the ruling of the District Court, which blocked the merger. In May 2017, after the
Delaware Court denied our motion to enjoin Cigna from terminating the Cigna Merger Agreement, we delivered to Cigna a notice
terminating the Cigna Merger Agreement.
The litigation in Delaware is ongoing with trial scheduled to commence in late February 2019. We believe Cigna’s allegations
are without merit and we intend to vigorously pursue our claims and defend against Cigna’s allegations; however, the ultimate
outcome of our litigation with Cigna cannot be presently determined.
In October 2018, a shareholder filed a derivative lawsuit in the State of Indiana Marion County Superior Court, captioned
Henry Bittmann, Derivatively, et al. v. Joseph R Swedish, et al., purportedly on behalf of Anthem and its shareholders against
certain current and former directors and officers alleging breaches of fiduciary duties, unjust enrichment and corporate waste
associated with the Cigna Merger Agreement. This case has been stayed at the request of the parties pending the outcome of our
litigation with Cigna in the Delaware Court. This lawsuit’s ultimate outcome cannot be presently determined.
U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) Civil Investigative Demands
Beginning in December 2016, the DOJ has issued civil investigative demands to us to discover information about our chart
review and risk adjustment programs under Parts C and D of the Medicare Program. We understand the DOJ is investigating the
programs of other Medicare Advantage health plans, along with providers and vendors. We continue to cooperate with the DOJ’s
investigation, and the ultimate outcome cannot presently be determined.
Cyber Attack Regulatory Proceedings and Litigation
In February 2015, we reported that we were the target of a sophisticated external cyber attack. The attackers gained
unauthorized access to certain of our information technology systems and obtained personal information related to many
individuals and employees, such as names, birth dates, healthcare identification/social security numbers, street addresses, email
addresses, phone numbers and employment information, including income data. To date, there is no evidence that credit card or
medical information, such as claims, test results or diagnostic codes, were targeted, accessed or obtained, although no assurance
can be given that we will not identify additional information that was accessed or obtained.
Upon discovery of the cyber attack, we took immediate action to remediate the security vulnerability and retained a
cybersecurity firm to evaluate our systems and identify solutions based on the evolving landscape. We have provided credit
monitoring and identity protection services to those who have been affected by this cyber attack. We have continued to implement
security enhancements since this incident. We have incurred expenses subsequent to the cyber attack to investigate and remediate
this matter and expect to continue to incur expenses of this nature in the foreseeable future. We recognize these expenses in the
periods in which they are incurred.
Federal and state agencies, including state insurance regulators, state attorneys general, the HHS Office of Civil Rights and the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, are investigating, or have investigated, events related to the cyber attack, including how it
occurred, its consequences and our responses. In connection with the resolution of the National Association of
-127-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Insurance Commissioners’ multistate targeted market conduct and financial exam in December 2016, we agreed to provide a
customized credit protection program, equivalent to a credit freeze, for our members who were under the age of eighteen on
January 27, 2015. No fines or penalties were imposed on us. In October 2018, we resolved the investigation by the HHS Office of
Civil Rights. The resolution included a monetary settlement along with an agreement to a two-year Corrective Action Plan.
Additionally, an ongoing investigation by a multi-state group of Attorneys General remains outstanding. Although we are
cooperating in this investigation, we may be subject to additional fines or other obligations, which may have an adverse effect on
how we operate our business and an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
Civil class actions were filed in various federal and state courts by current or former members and others seeking damages that
they alleged arose from the cyber attack. In June 2015, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation entered an order transferring
the consolidated civil actions to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, or the U.S. District Court, in a matter
captioned In Re Anthem, Inc. Data Breach Litigation. The parties agreed to settle plaintiffs’ claims on a class-wide basis for a total
settlement payment of $115. In August 2017, the U.S. District Court issued an order of preliminary approval of the settlement. The
U.S. District Court held hearings on plaintiffs’ motion for final approval and class counsel’s fee petition in February and June 2018
and appointed a special master to review class counsel’s fee petition. Final approval of the settlement was granted by the U.S.
District Court in August 2018. All appeals that were filed with the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals by class-member objections
challenging approval of the settlement have been resolved. This matter is now closed. The three state court cases related to the
cyber attack that were proceeding outside of this multidistrict litigation have been resolved and dismissed with prejudice.
We have contingency plans and insurance coverage for certain expenses and potential liabilities of this nature and will pursue
coverage for all applicable losses; however, the ultimate outcome of our pursuit of insurance coverage cannot be presently
determined. We intend to vigorously defend the remaining regulatory actions related to the cyber attack; however, their ultimate
outcome cannot be presently determined.
Other Contingencies
From time to time, we and certain of our subsidiaries are parties to various legal proceedings, many of which involve claims for
coverage encountered in the ordinary course of business. We, like HMOs and health insurers generally, exclude certain healthcare
and other services from coverage under our HMO, PPO and other plans. We are, in the ordinary course of business, subject to the
claims of our enrollees arising out of decisions to restrict or deny reimbursement for uncovered services. The loss of even one such
claim, if it results in a significant punitive damage award, could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, the risk of
potential liability under punitive damage theories may increase significantly the difficulty of obtaining reasonable settlements of
coverage claims.
In addition to the lawsuits described above, we are also involved in other pending and threatened litigation of the character
incidental to our business, and are from time to time involved as a party in various governmental investigations, audits, reviews and
administrative proceedings. These investigations, audits, reviews and administrative proceedings include routine and special
inquiries by state insurance departments, state attorneys general, the U.S. Attorney General and subcommittees of the U.S.
Congress. Such investigations, audits, reviews and administrative proceedings could result in the imposition of civil or criminal
fines, penalties, other sanctions and additional rules, regulations or other restrictions on our business operations. Any liability that
may result from any one of these actions, or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
position or results of operations.
Contractual Obligations and Commitments
Express Scripts, through our ESI PBM Agreement, is the provider of certain PBM services to our plans. In October 2017, we
established a new pharmacy benefits manager, called IngenioRx, and entered into a five-year agreement with CaremarkPCS Health,
L.L.C., or CVS Health, which is a subsidiary of CVS Health Corporation, to begin offering PBM solutions, or the CVS PBM
Agreement. In January 2019, we exercised our contractual right to terminate the ESI PBM Agreement earlier than the original
expiration date of December 31, 2019 due to the recent acquisition of Express Scripts by Cigna. As a result of exercising our early
termination right, the ESI PBM Agreement will now terminate on March 1, 2019, and the twelve-month transition period provided
for in the ESI PBM Agreement to migrate the services begins on March 2, 2019. At that time CVS Health is able to begin providing
certain PBM services to IngenioRx, pursuant to the CVS PBM Agreement. Notwithstanding our termination of the ESI PBM
Agreement, the litigation between us and Express Scripts
-128-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
regarding the ESI PBM Agreement continues. In March 2016, we filed a lawsuit against Express Scripts seeking to recover
damages for pharmacy pricing that is higher than competitive benchmark pricing, damages related to operational breaches, as well
as various declarations under the ESI PBM Agreement between the parties. For additional information regarding this lawsuit, refer
to the Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings-Express Scripts, Inc. Pharmacy Benefit Management Litigation section above. We
believe we have appropriately recognized all rights and obligations under the ESI PBM Agreement as of December 31, 2018.
Vulnerability from Concentrations
Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents,
investment securities, premium receivables and instruments held through hedging activities. All investment securities are managed
by professional investment managers within policies authorized by our Board of Directors. Such policies limit the amounts that
may be invested in any one issuer and prescribe certain investee company criteria. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to
premium receivables are limited due to the large number of employer groups that constitute our customer base in the states in
which we conduct business. As of December 31, 2018, there were no significant concentrations of financial instruments in a single
investee, industry or geographic location.
14. Capital Stock 
Stock Incentive Plans
Our Board of Directors has adopted the 2017 Anthem Incentive Compensation Plan, or 2017 Incentive Plan, which has been
approved by our shareholders. The term of the 2017 Incentive Plan is such that no awards may be granted on or after May 18, 2027.
The 2017 Incentive Plan gives authority to the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors to make incentive awards to our
non-employee directors, employees and consultants, consisting of stock options, stock, restricted stock, restricted stock units, cash-
based awards, stock appreciation rights, performance shares and performance units. The 2017 Incentive Plan limits the number of
available shares for issuance to 37.5 shares, subject to adjustment as set forth in the 2017 Incentive Plan.
Stock options are granted for a fixed number of shares with an exercise price at least equal to the fair value of the shares at the
grant date. Historically, stock options have vested over three years in equal semi-annual installments and generally have a term of
ten years from the grant date. Amendments to the 2017 Incentive Plan, effective July 1, 2018, require future grants of stock options
to vest in three equal annual installments.
Certain option grants contain provisions whereby the employee continues to vest in the award subsequent to termination due to
retirement. Our attribution method for newly granted awards considers all vesting and other provisions, including retirement
eligibility, in determining the requisite service period over which the fair value of the awards will be recognized.
Awards of restricted stock or restricted stock units are issued at the fair value of the stock on the grant date and may also
include one or more performance measures that must be met for the award to vest. The restrictions lapse in three equal annual
installments. Performance units issued in 2018 will vest in 2021, based on earnings targets over the three year period of 2018 to
2020. Performance units issued in 2017 will vest in 2020, based on earnings targets over the three year period of 2017 to 2019.
Performance units issued in 2016 will vest in 2019, based on earnings targets over the three year period of 2016 to 2018.
For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we recognized share-based compensation expense of $226, $170 and
$165, respectively, as well as related tax benefits of $61, $68 and $61, respectively.
-129-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
A summary of stock option activity for the year ended December 31, 2018 is as follows:
 Number of
SharesWeighted-Average
Option Price per
Share  Weighted-Average
Remaining
Contractual Life
(Years)Aggregate
Intrinsic
Value
Outstanding at January 1, 2018 4.3$ 124.31  
Granted 0.9 232.79  
Exercised (1.3) 112.72  
Forfeited or expired (0.2) 189.52  
Outstanding at December 31, 2018 3.7 149.65 6.15$ 416
Exercisable at December 31, 2018 2.4 125.88 5.00$ 331
The intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 amounted to $172, $192
and $103, respectively. We recognized tax benefits of $47, $76 and $38 in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, from option exercises
and disqualifying dispositions. During the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we received cash of $141, $200 and
$95, respectively, from exercises of stock options.
The total fair value of restricted stock awards that vested during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 was $237,
$127 and $185, respectively.
A summary of the status of nonvested restricted stock activity, including restricted stock units, for the year ended
December 31, 2018 is as follows:
 Restricted
Stock Shares
and Units  Weighted-Average
Grant Date
Fair Value
per Share
Nonvested at January 1, 2018 2.0 $ 152.20
Granted 0.9 233.73
Vested (1.0) 147.93
Forfeited (0.2) 188.06
Nonvested at December 31, 2018 1.7 183.32
During the year ended December 31, 2018, we granted approximately 0.3 restricted stock units that are contingent upon us
achieving earning targets over the three year period of 2018 to 2020. These grants have been included in the activity shown above,
but will be subject to adjustment at the end of 2020, based on results in the three year period.
During the year ended December 31, 2018, we granted an additional 0.2 restricted stock units, associated with our 2015 grants,
that were earned as a result of satisfactory completion of performance measures between 2015 and 2017. These grants and vested
shares have been included in the activity shown above.
As of December 31, 2018, the total remaining unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested stock options and
restricted stock, including restricted stock units, amounted to $22 and $136, respectively, which will be amortized over the
weighted-average remaining requisite service periods of 11 months and 12 months, respectively.
As of December 31, 2018, there were approximately 26.9 shares of common stock available for future grants under the 2017
Incentive Plan.
 Fair Value
We use a binomial lattice valuation model to estimate the fair value of all stock options granted. Expected volatility
assumptions used in the binomial lattice model are based on an analysis of implied volatilities of publicly traded options on our
stock and historical volatility of our stock price. The risk-free interest rate is derived from the U.S. Treasury strip rates at the time
of the grant. The expected term of the options was derived from the outputs of the binomial lattice model, which
-130-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
incorporates post-vesting forfeiture assumptions based on an analysis of historical data. The dividend yield was based on our
estimate of future dividend yields. Similar groups of employees that have dissimilar exercise behavior are considered separately for
valuation purposes. We utilize the multiple-grant approach for recognizing compensation expense associated with each separately
vesting portion of the share-based award.
The following weighted-average assumptions were used to estimate the fair values of options granted during the years ended
December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016:
 2018 2017  2016
Risk-free interest rate 2.90% 2.31% 1.76%
Volatility factor 30.00% 32.00% 32.00%
Dividend yield (annual) 1.30% 1.60% 2.00%
Weighted-average expected life (years) 3.70 4.00 4.10
The following weighted-average fair values were determined for the years ending December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016:
 2018 2017 2016
Options granted during the year $ 55.48$ 40.88$ 30.56
Restricted stock awards granted during the year 233.73 174.44 131.81
The binomial lattice option-pricing model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock
price volatility. Because our stock option grants have characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and
because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in our opinion, existing models do
not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of our stock option grants.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
We have registered 14.0 shares of common stock for the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or the Stock Purchase Plan, which is
intended to provide a means to encourage and assist employees in acquiring a stock ownership interest in Anthem. Pursuant to the
terms of the Stock Purchase Plan, an employee is permitted to purchase no more than $25,000 (actual dollars) worth of stock in any
calendar year, based on the fair value of the stock at the end of each plan quarter. Employees become participants by electing
payroll deductions from 1% to 15% of gross compensation. Once purchased, the stock is accumulated in the employee’s investment
account. The Stock Purchase Plan allows participants to purchase shares of our common stock at a price per share of 95% of the
fair value of a share of common stock on the last trading day of the plan quarter. The employee stock purchase plan discount is not
recognized as compensation expense based on GAAP guidance. There were 0.2 shares issued during the year ended December 31,
2018. As of December 31, 2018, 5.0 shares were available for issuance under the Stock Purchase Plan.
Effective January 1, 2019, the price per share for the shares purchased under the Stock Purchase Plan will be 90% of the fair
value of a share of common stock on the lower of the first or last trading day of the plan quarter. This additional discount will result
in compensation expense beginning in the first quarter of 2019. Participants will be required to hold shares purchased under the
Stock Purchase Plan for at least one year from the purchase date.
Use of Capital and Stock Repurchase Program
We regularly review the appropriate use of capital, including acquisitions, common stock and debt security repurchases and
dividends to shareholders. The declaration and payment of any dividends or repurchases of our common stock or debt is at the
discretion of our Board of Directors and depends upon our financial condition, results of operations, future liquidity needs,
regulatory and capital requirements and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors.
-131-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
A summary of the cash dividend activity for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 is as follows: 
Declaration Date Record Date Payment Date  Cash Dividend per
Share  Total
Year ended December 31, 2018     
January 30, 2018 March 9, 2018 March 23, 2018 $ 0.75 $ 192
April 24, 2018 June 8, 2018 June 25, 2018 0.75 196
July 24, 2018 September 10, 2018 September 25, 2018 0.75 195
October 30, 2018 December 5, 2018 December 21, 2018 0.75 193
      
Year ended December 31, 2017     
February 22, 2017 March 10, 2017 March 24, 2017 $ 0.65 $ 172
April 27, 2017 June 9, 2017 June 23, 2017 0.65 172
July 25, 2017 September 8, 2017 September 25, 2017 0.70 181
October 24, 2017 December 5, 2017 December 21, 2017 0.70 180
On January 29, 2019, our Audit Committee declared a quarterly cash dividend to shareholders of $0.80 per share on the
outstanding shares of our common stock. This quarterly dividend is payable on March 29, 2019 to the shareholders of record as of
March 18, 2019.
Under our Board of Directors’ authorization, we maintain a common stock repurchase program. On December 7, 2017, the
Board of Directors authorized a $5,000 increase to the common stock repurchase program. Repurchases may be made from time to
time at prevailing market prices, subject to certain restrictions on volume, pricing and timing. The repurchases are effected from
time to time in the open market, through negotiated transactions, including accelerated share repurchase agreements, and through
plans designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Our stock repurchase program
is discretionary as we are under no obligation to repurchase shares. We repurchase shares under the program when we believe it is a
prudent use of capital. The excess cost of the repurchased shares over par value is charged on a pro rata basis to additional paid-in
capital and retained earnings.
A summary of common stock repurchases for the period January 1, 2019 through February 7, 2019 (subsequent to
December 31, 2018) and for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 is as follows:
 January 1, 2019
through
February 7, 2019 Years Ended December 31
 2018  2017
Shares repurchased 0.6 6.8 10.5
Average price per share $ 261.26$ 248.34 $ 189.93
Aggregate cost $ 165$ 1,685 $ 1,998
Authorization remaining at end of year $ 5,328$ 5,493 $ 7,178
We expect to utilize the remaining authorized amount over a multi-year period, subject to market and industry conditions.
For additional information regarding the use of capital for debt security repurchases, see Note 12, “Debt.”
-132-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
15. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
A reconciliation of the components of accumulated other comprehensive loss at December 31, 2018 and 2017 is as follows:
 2018  2017
Investments:  
Gross unrealized gains $ 173 $ 940
Gross unrealized losses (371) (105)
Net pretax unrealized (losses) gains (198) 835
Deferred tax asset (liability) 39 (301)
Net unrealized (losses) gains on investments (159) 534
Non-credit components of OTTI on investments:  
Gross unrealized losses (3) —
Deferred tax asset 1 —
Net unrealized non-credit component of OTTI on investments (2) —
Cash flow hedges:  
Gross unrealized losses (311) (359)
Deferred tax asset 65 126
Net unrealized losses on cash flow hedges (246) (233)
Defined benefit pension plans:  
Deferred net actuarial loss (751) (625)
Deferred prior service cost (1) (1)
Deferred tax asset 193 244
Net unrecognized periodic benefit costs for defined benefit pension plans (559) (382)
Postretirement benefit plans:  
Deferred net actuarial loss (58) (77)
Deferred prior service credits 34 46
Deferred tax asset 6 12
Net unrecognized periodic benefit costs for postretirement benefit plans (18) (19)
Foreign currency translation adjustments:  
Gross unrealized losses (3) (2)
Deferred tax asset 1 1
Net unrealized losses on foreign currency translation adjustments (2) (1)
Accumulated other comprehensive loss $ (986) $ (101)
We adopted the FASB standard on accounting for non-consolidated equity investments (ASU 2016-01) on January 1, 2018 as a
cumulative-effect adjustment and reclassified $320 of unrealized gains on equity investments, net of tax, from accumulated other
comprehensive loss to retained earnings on our consolidated balance sheet. We also adopted the FASB standard on reclassification
of certain tax effects from accumulated other comprehensive income (ASU 2018-02) on January 1, 2018 and reclassified $91 of
stranded tax effects from accumulated other comprehensive loss to retained earnings on our consolidated balance sheet. See Note 2,
“Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies – Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance” for further information on
these standards.
-133-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Other comprehensive income (loss) reclassification adjustments for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 are as
follows:
 2018  2017 2016
Investments:    
Net holding (loss) gain on investment securities arising during the period, net
of tax benefit (expense) of $133, ($153), and ($119), respectively $ (465) $ 280$ 186
Reclassification adjustment for net realized loss (gain) on investment
securities, net of tax (benefit) expense of $(13), $58, and $37, respectively 47 (107) (68)
Total reclassification adjustment on investments (418) 173 118
Non-credit component of OTTI on investments:    
Non-credit component of OTTI on investments, net of tax benefit (expense)
of $1, ($3), and ($3), respectively (2) 4 5
Cash flow hedges:    
Holding gain (loss), net of tax (expense) benefit of $(10), $35, and $47,
respectively 37 (65) (87)
Other:    
Net change in unrecognized periodic benefit costs for defined benefit pension
and postretirement benefit plans, net of tax benefit (expense) of $29, $(35),
and $5, respectively (90) 51 (13)
Foreign currency translation adjustment, net of tax expense of $0, ($1), and
($1), respectively (1) 3 2
Net (loss) gain recognized in other comprehensive loss, net of tax benefit (expense)
of $140, ($99), and ($34), respectively $ (474) $ 166$ 25
16. Reinsurance
We reinsure certain risks with other companies and assume risk from other companies. We remain primarily liable to
policyholders under ceded insurance contracts and are contingently liable for amounts recoverable from reinsurers in the event that
such reinsurers do not meet their contractual obligations. In conjunction with the ACA temporary reinsurance premium stabilization
program that was effective for 2014 through 2016, we recognized assessments upon our fully-insured non-grandfathered individual
market plans that were eligible for reinsurance recoveries as ceded premiums and estimated reinsurance recoveries as a reduction to
benefit expense. Assessments upon all other lines of business that were not eligible for reinsurance recoveries were recognized in
selling, general and administrative expense.
A summary of direct, assumed and ceded premiums written and earned for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016
is as follows:
 2018 2017  2016
Written Earned Written Earned  Written  Earned
Direct $ 84,835 $ 85,213 $ 83,974 $ 83,418 $ 78,200 $ 78,726
Assumed 264 259 275 275 217 217
Ceded (51) (51) (44) (45) (80) (83)
Net premiums $ 85,048 $ 85,421 $ 84,205 $ 83,648 $ 78,337 $ 78,860
Percentage—assumed to net
premiums 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% 0.3%
-134-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
A summary of net premiums written and earned by segment (see Note 19, “Segment Information”) for the years ended
December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 is as follows:
 2018 2017  2016
Written Earned Written Earned  Written  Earned
Reportable segments:     
Commercial & Specialty
Business $ 30,661$ 30,532$ 35,382$ 35,503 $ 33,101 $ 33,577
Government Business 54,387 54,889 48,823 48,145 45,236 45,283
Net premiums $ 85,048$ 85,421$ 84,205$ 83,648 $ 78,337 $ 78,860
The effect of reinsurance on benefit expense for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 is as follows:
 2018 2017  2016
Direct $ 71,749$ 72,135 $ 67,222
Assumed 219 217 184
Ceded (73) (116) (572)
Net benefit expense $ 71,895$ 72,236 $ 66,834
 The effect of reinsurance on certain assets and liabilities at December 31, 2018 and 2017 is as follows:
 2018  2017
Policy liabilities, assumed $ 50 $ 54
Unearned income, assumed 6 1
Premiums payable, ceded 17 9
Premiums receivable, assumed 37 33
17. Leases
We lease office space and certain computer and related equipment using noncancelable operating leases. At December 31,
2018, future lease payments for operating leases with initial or remaining noncancelable terms of one year or more consisted of the
following:
2019 $ 192
2020 165
2021 139
2022 127
2023 109
Thereafter 385
Total minimum payments required $ 1,117
We have certain lease agreements that contain contingent payment provisions. Under these provisions, we pay contingent
amounts in addition to base rent, primarily based upon annual changes in the consumer price index. The schedule above contains
estimated amounts for potential future increases in lease payments based on the contingent payment provisions.
Lease expense for 2018, 2017 and 2016 was $207, $205 and $207, respectively.
-135-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
18. Earnings per Share
The denominator for basic and diluted earnings per share at December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 is as follows:
 2018  2017 2016
Denominator for basic earnings per share—weighted-average shares 258.1 261.5 262.9
Effect of dilutive securities—employee stock options, non-vested restricted stock awards,
convertible debentures and equity units 6.1 6.3 5.2
Denominator for diluted earnings per share 264.2 267.8 268.1
During the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, weighted-average shares related to certain stock options of 0.3,
0.4 and 2.2, respectively, were excluded from the denominator for diluted earnings per share because the stock options were anti-
dilutive. The Equity Unit purchase contracts were settled in May 2018, and approximately 6.0 shares of our common stock were
issued and included in the basic earnings per share calculation.
During the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we issued approximately 0.3, 0.4 and 0.5 restricted stock units,
respectively, of which vesting was contingent upon us meeting certain earnings targets. Contingent restricted stock units are
excluded from the denominator for diluted earnings per share and are included only if and when the contingency is met. The 2018
contingent restricted stock units are being measured over the three year period of 2018 through 2020, the 2017 contingent restricted
stock units are being measured over the three year period of 2017 through 2019 and the 2016 contingent restricted stock units are
being measured over the three year period of 2016 through 2018. Contingent restricted stock units vest in March of the year
following each measurement period.
19. Segment Information
Our organizational structure is comprised of three reportable segments: Commercial & Specialty Business; Government
Business; and Other.
Our Commercial & Specialty Business segment includes our Local Group, National Accounts, Individual and Specialty
businesses. Business units in the Commercial & Specialty Business segment offer fully-insured health products; provide a broad
array of managed care services to self-funded customers including claims processing, underwriting, stop loss insurance, actuarial
services, provider network access, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs and other administrative
services; and provide an array of specialty and other insurance products and services such as dental, vision, life and disability
insurance benefits.
Our Government Business segment includes our Medicare and Medicaid businesses, National Government Services, or NGS,
and services provided to the federal government in connection with FEP®. Our Medicare business includes services such as
Medicare Supplement plans; Medicare Advantage, including Special Needs Plans; Medicare Part D; and dual-eligible programs
through Medicare-Medicaid Plans. Our Medicaid business includes our managed care alternatives through publicly funded
healthcare programs, including Medicaid, ACA-related Medicaid expansion programs, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families
programs, programs for seniors and people with disabilities, Children’s Health Insurance Programs, and specialty programs such as
those focused on long-term services and support, HIV/AIDS, foster care, behavioral health and/or substance abuse disorders, and
intellectual disabilities or developmental disabilities. NGS acts as a Medicare contractor for the federal government in several
regions across the nation.
Our Other segment includes certain eliminations and corporate expenses not allocated to either of our other reportable
segments.
We define operating revenues to include premium income and administrative fees and other revenues. Operating revenues are
derived from premiums and fees received, primarily from the sale and administration of health benefit products. Operating gain, a
non-GAAP measure, is calculated as total operating revenue less benefit expense and selling, general and administrative expense.
Through our participation in various federal government programs, we generated approximately 19.8%, 17.8% and 18.2% of
our total consolidated revenues from agencies of the U.S. government for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016,
respectively. These revenues are contained in the Government Business segment.
-136-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
The accounting policies of the segments are consistent with those described in the summary of significant accounting policies
in Note 2, “Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies,” except that certain shared administrative expenses for each
segment are recognized on a pro rata allocated basis, which in the aggregate approximates the consolidated expense. Any difference
between the allocated expenses and actual consolidated expense is included in other expenses not allocated to reportable segments.
Intersegment sales and expenses are recorded at cost and eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. We evaluate
performance of the reportable segments based on operating gain or loss as defined above. We evaluate net investment income, net
realized gains on financial instruments, OTTI losses recognized in income, interest expense, amortization expense, gain or loss on
extinguishment of debt, income taxes, assets and liabilities on a consolidated basis as these items are managed in a corporate shared
service environment and are not the responsibility of segment operating management.
During the fourth quarter of 2018, we reclassified certain ancillary businesses to align how our segments are currently being
managed. Prior year amounts have been reclassified for comparability.
Financial data by reportable segment for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 is as follows:
 Commercial &
Specialty
Business  Government
Business  Other Total
Year ended December 31, 2018    
Operating revenue $ 35,782 $ 55,567 $ (8)$ 91,341
Operating gain (loss) 3,629 1,895 (98) 5,426
Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment — — 652 652
Year ended December 31, 2017    
Operating revenue $ 40,363 $ 48,702 $ (4)$ 89,061
Operating gain (loss) 2,847 1,445 (117) 4,175
Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment — — 601 601
Year ended December 31, 2016    
Operating revenue $ 38,347 $ 45,850 $ (3)$ 84,194
Operating gain (loss) 3,148 1,827 (174) 4,801
Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment — — 576 576
 The major product revenues for each of the reportable segments for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 are as
follows:
 2018 2017  2016
Commercial & Specialty Business   
Managed care products $ 29,013$ 33,971 $ 32,134
Managed care services 5,115 4,732 4,616
Dental/Vision products and services 1,220 1,218 1,182
Other 434 442 415
Total Commercial & Specialty Business 35,782 40,363 38,347
Government Business   
Managed care products 54,889 48,145 45,283
Managed care services 678 557 567
Total Government Business 55,567 48,702 45,850
Other   
Other (8) (4) (3)
Total product revenues $ 91,341$ 89,061 $ 84,194
-137-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
The classification between managed care products and managed care services in the above table primarily distinguishes
between the levels of risk assumed. Managed care products represent insurance products where we bear the insurance risk, whereas
managed care services represent product offerings where we provide claims adjudication and other administrative services to the
customer, but the customer principally bears the insurance risk. 
Asset, liability and equity details by reportable segment have not been disclosed, as we do not internally report such
information. 
A reconciliation of reportable segment operating revenues to the amounts of total revenues included in the consolidated
statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 is as follows:
 2018 2017  2016
Reportable segments operating revenues $ 91,341$ 89,061 $ 84,194
Net investment income 970 867 779
Net realized (losses) gains on financial instruments (180) 145 5
Other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in income (26) (33) (115)
Total revenues $ 92,105$ 90,040 $ 84,863
A reconciliation of reportable segment operating gain to income before income tax expense included in the consolidated
statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 is as follows:
 2018 2017  2016
Reportable segments operating gain $ 5,426$ 4,175 $ 4,801
Net investment income 970 867 779
Net realized (losses) gains on financial instruments (180) 145 5
Other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in income (26) (33) (115)
Interest expense (753) (739) (723)
Amortization of other intangible assets (358) (169) (192)
Loss on extinguishment of debt (11) (282) —
Income before income tax expense $ 5,068$ 3,964 $ 4,555
20. Related Party Transactions
We have a 19.50% equity investment in National Accounts Service Company, LLC, or NASCO, which processes National
Accounts claims and provides other administrative services for us and certain other Blue Cross Blue Shield plans. Administrative
expenses incurred related to NASCO services totaled $79, $73 and $80, for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016,
respectively. Amounts due to NASCO were $5 and $6 at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
21. Statutory Information
The majority of our insurance and HMO subsidiaries report their accounts in conformity with accounting practices prescribed
or permitted by state insurance regulatory authorities, commonly referred to as statutory accounting, which vary in certain respects
from GAAP. However, certain of our insurance and HMO subsidiaries, including BCC, Blue Cross of California Partnership Plan,
Inc., Golden West Health Plan, Inc. and CareMore Health Plan are regulated by the California Department of Managed Health
Care, or DMHC, and report their accounts in conformity with GAAP (these entities are collectively referred to as the “DMHC
regulated entities”). Typical differences of GAAP reporting as compared to statutory reporting are the inclusion of unrealized gains
or losses relating to fixed maturity securities in shareholders’ equity, recognition of all assets including those that are non-admitted
for statutory purposes and recognition of all deferred tax assets without regard to statutory limits. The National Association of
Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, developed a codified version of the statutory accounting principles, designed to foster more
consistency among the states for accounting guidelines and reporting. Prescribed statutory accounting practices are set forth in a
variety of publications of the NAIC as well as state laws, regulations and general administrative rules.
-138-
Anthem, Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Our ability to pay dividends and credit obligations is significantly dependent on receipt of dividends from our subsidiaries. The
payment of dividends to us by our insurance and HMO subsidiaries without prior approval of the insurance departments of each
subsidiary’s domiciliary jurisdiction is limited by formula. Dividends in excess of these amounts are subject to prior approval by
the respective state insurance departments or the DMHC.
Our statutory basis insurance and HMO subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital, or RBC, requirements. RBC is a method
developed by the NAIC to determine the minimum amount of statutory capital appropriate for an insurance company or HMO to
support its overall business operations in consideration of its size and risk profile. The formula for determining the amount of RBC
specifies various factors, weighted based on the perceived degree of risk, which are applied to certain financial balances and
financial activity. Below minimum RBC requirements are classified within certain levels, each of which requires specified
corrective action. Additionally, the DMHC regulated entities are subject to capital and solvency requirements as prescribed by the
DMHC. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, all of our regulated subsidiaries exceeded the minimum RBC requirements and/or
capital and solvency requirements of their applicable governmental regulator. The statutory RBC necessary to satisfy regulatory
requirements of our statutory basis insurance and HMO subsidiaries was approximately $4,800 and $4,700 as of December 31,
2018 and 2017, respectively. The tangible net equity required for the DMHC regulated entities was approximately $570 and $670
as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Statutory-basis capital and surplus of our insurance and HMO subsidiaries and capital and surplus of our other regulated
subsidiaries, excluding the DMHC regulated entities, was $12,038 and $11,666 at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Statutory-basis net income of our insurance and HMO subsidiaries and net income of our other regulated subsidiaries, excluding
the DMHC regulated entities, was $3,412, $2,674 and $2,613 for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. GAAP equity of the DMHC
regulated entities was $3,125 and $2,917 at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. GAAP net income of the DMHC regulated
entities was $789, $1,047 and $775 for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
22. Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
Selected quarterly financial data is as follows:
 For the Quarter Ended
 March 31 June 30  September 30 December 31
2018     
Total revenues $ 22,537 $ 22,944 $ 23,251$ 23,373
Income before income tax expense 1,780 1,504 1,242 542
Net income 1,312 1,054 960 424
   
Basic net income per share $ 5.13 $ 4.07 $ 3.70$ 1.64
Diluted net income per share 4.99 3.98 3.62 1.61
     
2017     
Total revenues $ 22,525 $ 22,407 $ 22,426$ 22,682
Income before income tax expense 1,514 1,205 1,119 126
Net income 1,009 855 747 1,232
     
Basic net income per share $ 3.82 $ 3.23 $ 2.87$ 4.80
Diluted net income per share 3.73 3.16 2.80 4.67
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
DISCLOSURE.
There have been no changes in or disagreements with our independent registered public accounting firm on accounting or
financial disclosures.
-139-
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
We carried out an evaluation as of December 31, 2018, under the supervision and with the participation of our management,
including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure
controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective in timely alerting them to material
information relating to us (including our consolidated subsidiaries) required to be disclosed in our reports under the Exchange Act.
In addition, based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure
controls and procedures were effective in ensuring that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or
submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
Management, under the supervision and with the participation of the principal executive officer and principal financial officer,
of Anthem, Inc., or the Company, is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting,
or Internal Control, as such term is defined in the Exchange Act. The Company’s Internal Control is designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of the Company’s financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
reporting purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. The Company’s Internal Control
includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and that receipts and expenditures of
the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and
(iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the
Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of inherent limitations in any Internal Control, no matter how well designed, misstatements due to error or fraud may
occur and not be detected. Accordingly, even effective Internal Control can provide only reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP.
Management, under the supervision and with the participation of the principal executive officer and principal financial officer,
assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s Internal Control as of December 31, 2018. Management’s assessment was based on
criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission.
The Company completed its acquisition of America's 1st Choice on February 15, 2018. As permitted by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, management's assessment as of December 31, 2018 did not include the Internal Control of America's 1st
Choice, which is included in the Company's consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2018. Such operations of
America's 1st Choice constituted 0.5% and 0.6% of the Company's total assets and net assets, respectively, as of December 31,
2018, and 1.9% and 1.9% of the Company's total revenue and net income for the year then ended.
Based on management’s assessment, which excluded an assessment of Internal Control of America's 1st Choice, management
has concluded that the Company’s Internal Control was effective as of December 31, 2018 to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in
accordance with GAAP.
-140-
Ernst & Young LLP, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the consolidated financial
statements of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2018, and has also issued an audit report dated February 20, 2019, on
the effectiveness of the Company’s Internal Control as of December 31, 2018, which is included in this Annual Report on Form 10-
K.
/S/    GAIL K. BOUDREAUX  /S/    JOHN E. GALLINA
President and Chief Executive Officer  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the three months ended
December 31, 2018 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting.
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Anthem, Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited Anthem, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, based on criteria established in
Internal Control–Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013
framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Anthem, Inc. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, based on the COSO criteria.
As indicated in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, management's assessment
of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include the internal controls of America's
1st Choice, which is included in the 2018 consolidated financial statements of the Company and constituted 0.5% and 0.6% of total
and net assets, respectively, as of December 31, 2018, and 1.9% and 1.9% of revenues and net income, respectively, for the year
then ended. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting of the Company also did not include an evaluation of the internal
control over financial reporting of America's 1st Choice.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States)
(PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets of Anthem, Inc. as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the related consolidated statements
of income, comprehensive income, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2018, and the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(c) and our report dated
February 20, 2019 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment
of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with
respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities
and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.
-141-
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of
the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that
could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because
of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/    ERNST & YOUNG LLP
Indianapolis, Indiana
February 20, 2019
-142-
ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION.
None.
PART III
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.
The information required by this Item concerning our Executive Officers, Directors and nominees for Director, Audit
Committee members and financial expert(s) and concerning disclosure of delinquent filers under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act
and our Standards of Ethical Business Conduct is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive Proxy Statement for our
2019 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end
of our last fiscal year.
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
The information required by this Item concerning remuneration of our Executive Officers and Directors, material transactions
involving such Executive Officers and Directors and Compensation Committee interlocks, as well as the Compensation Committee
Report and Pay Ratio Disclosure are incorporated herein by reference from our definitive Proxy Statement for our 2019 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders, which will be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of our last
fiscal year.
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.
The information required by this Item concerning the stock ownership of management and five percent beneficial owners and
securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive Proxy
Statement for our 2019 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120
days after the end of our last fiscal year.
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE.
The information required by this Item concerning certain relationships and related person transactions and director
independence is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive Proxy Statement for our 2019 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders, which will be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of our last fiscal year.
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES.
The information required by this Item concerning principal accountant fees and services is incorporated herein by reference
from our definitive Proxy Statement for our 2019 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will be filed with the SEC pursuant to
Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of our last fiscal year.
-143-
PART IV
ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.
(a) 1. Financial Statements:
The following consolidated financial statements of the Company are set forth in Part II, Item 8:
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2018 and 2017
Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
2. Financial Statement Schedule:
The following financial statement schedule of the Company is included in Item 15(c):
Schedule II—Condensed Financial Information of Registrant (Parent Company Only).
All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulations of the SEC are not required
under the related instructions, are inapplicable, or the required information is included in the consolidated financial
statements, and therefore, have been omitted.
3. Exhibits required to be filed as part of this report:
Exhibit
Number Exhibit
2.1 Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 23, 2015 among Anthem, Inc., Anthem Merger Sub. Corp. and
Cigna Corporation, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
July 27, 2015.
3.1 Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company, as amended and restated effective May 16, 2018,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 16, 2018.
3.2 Bylaws of the Company, as amended and restated effective May 16, 2018, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2
to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 16, 2018.
4.1 Form of Specimen Certificate of the Company’s common stock, $0.01 par value per share, incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Post-Effective Amendment No.1 to Form S-8 Registration Statement filed on May
23, 2017.
4.2 Indenture, dated as of December 9, 2004, between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.,
as trustee, including the Form of the Company’s 5.950% Notes due 2034, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 15, 2004, SEC File No. 001-16751.
4.3 Indenture, dated as of January 10, 2006, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company,
N.A. (formerly known as The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.), as trustee, incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 11, 2006, SEC File No. 001-16751.
 (a)Form of 5.85% Notes due 2036, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on January 11, 2006, SEC File No. 001-16751.
-144-
Exhibit
Number Exhibit
 (b)Form of 6.375% Notes due 2037, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on June 8, 2007, SEC File No. 001-16751.
 (c)Form of 4.350% Notes due 2020, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on August 12, 2010, SEC File No. 001-16751.
 (d)Form of 5.800% Notes due 2040, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on August 12, 2010, SEC File No. 001-16751.
 (e)Form of 3.700% Notes due 2021, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on August 15, 2011, SEC File No. 001-16751.
 (f)Form of 3.125% Notes due 2022, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on May 7, 2012, SEC File No. 001-16751.
 (g)Form of 4.625% Notes due 2042, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on May 7, 2012, SEC File No. 001-16751.
 (h)Form of 3.300% Notes due 2023, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on September 10, 2012, SEC File No. 001-16751.
 (i)Form of 4.650% Notes due 2043, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on September 10, 2012, SEC File No. 001-16751.
 (j)Form of 5.100% Notes due 2044, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on July 31, 2013, SEC File No. 001-16751.
 (k)Form of 2.250% Notes due 2019, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on August 12, 2014.
 (l)Form of 3.500% Notes due 2024, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on August 12, 2014.
 (m)Form of 4.650% Notes due 2044, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on August 12, 2014.
 (n)Form of 4.850% Notes due 2054, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on August 12, 2014.
4.4 Indenture dated as of October 9, 2012 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company,
N.A. as trustee, including the Form of the 2.750% Senior Convertible Debentures due 2042, incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 9, 2012, SEC File No. 001-
16751.
4.5 Subordinated Indenture, dated as of May 12, 2015, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A., as trustee, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on May 12, 2015.
 (a)First Supplemental Indenture to the Subordinated Indenture, dated as of May 12, 2015, between the Company
and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, including the Form of 1.90%
Remarketable Subordinated Notes due 2028, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 12, 2015.
4.6 Indenture dated as of November 21, 2017 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A. as trustee, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on November 21, 2017.
 (a)Form of 2.500% Notes due 2020, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on November 21, 2017.
 (b)Form of 2.950% Notes due 2022, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on November 21, 2017. 
 (c)Form of 3.350% Notes due 2024, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on November 21, 2017. 
 (d)Form of 3.650% Notes due 2027, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on November 21, 2017.
-145-
Exhibit
Number Exhibit
 (e)Form of 4.375% Notes due 2047, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on November 21, 2017.
 (f)Form of 4.101% Notes due 2028, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on March 2, 2018.
 (g)Form of 4.550% Notes due 2048, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on March 2, 2018.
4.7  Upon the request of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company will furnish copies of any other
instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the Company or its subsidiaries.
10.1* Anthem Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective December 2, 2014, incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 2, 2014.
 (a)Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement for 2013, incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2(s) to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2013, SEC File No. 001-76751.
 (b)Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement for 2014, incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2(p) to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2014.
 (c)Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement for 2015, incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2(n) to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2015.
 (d)Form of Amendment, dated March 9, 2016, to Incentive Compensation Plan Nonqualified Stock Option Award
Agreement for 2014, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(m) to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2016.
 (e)Form of Amendment, dated March 9, 2016, to Incentive Compensation Plan Nonqualified Stock Option Award
Agreement for 2015, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(p) to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2016.
 (f)Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement for 2016 and 2017,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(s) to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended March 31, 2016.  
 (g)Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for 2016 and 2017,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(t) to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended March 31, 2016.
 (h)Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Performance Stock Unit Award Agreement for 2016, incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2(u) to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2016.
10.2*2017 Anthem Incentive Compensation Plan, effective May 18, 2017, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 18, 2017. 
 (a)Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Performance Stock Unit Award Agreement for 2017, incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1(r) to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
30, 2017.
 (b)Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Performance Stock Unit Award Agreement for the Chief Executive
Officer for 2017, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(b) to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2017.
 (c)First Amendment, effective January 1, 2018, to 2017 Anthem Incentive Compensation Plan, incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2(c) to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2017.
 (d)Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement for 2018, incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2(d) to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2018.
 (e)Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for 2018, incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2(e) to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2018.
-146-
Exhibit
Number Exhibit
 (f)Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Performance Stock Unit Award Agreement for 2018, incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2(f) to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2018.
 (g)Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Performance Stock Unit Award Agreement for Executive Vice President
and CEO of IngenioRx, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(g) to the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2018.
 (h)Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement commencing July 2018,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(h) to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2018.
 (i)Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement commencing July 2018,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(i) to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2018.
 (j)Form of Incentive Compensation Plan Performance Stock Unit Award Agreement commencing July 2018,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2(j) to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2018.
 (k)Second Amendment, effective August 6, 2018, to 2017 Anthem Incentive Compensation Plan incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2(k) to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
30, 2018.
10.3*Anthem, Inc. Comprehensive Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective
December 2, 2014, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2014.
10.4*Anthem, Inc. Executive Agreement Plan, as amended and restated effective December 2, 2014, incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014.
 (a)First Amendment, dated March 9, 2016, to Executive Agreement Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.4(a) to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2016.  
 (b)Second Amendment, dated January 6, 2017, to Executive Agreement Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.3(b) to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016.
  
 (c)Third Amendment, dated August 27, 2018, to Executive Agreement Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.4(c) to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2018.
10.5*Anthem, Inc. Executive Salary Continuation Plan, as amended and restated effective December 2, 2014,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2015.
10.6*Anthem, Inc. Directed Executive Compensation Plan amended effective January 1, 2019.
10.7*Anthem, Inc. Board of Directors Compensation Program, as amended effective May 18, 2017, incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2017.
10.8*Anthem Board of Directors’ Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective December 2, 2014,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2014.
10.9* (a)Form of Employment Agreement between the Company and each of the following: John E. Gallina, Brian T.
Griffin, Peter D. Haytaian, Gloria McCarthy and Thomas C. Zielinski, incorporated by reference to Exhibit A
to Exhibit 10.41 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007,
SEC File No. 001-16751.
 (b)Form of Employment Agreement between the Company and Gail Boudreaux, incorporated by reference to
Exhibit A to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 6, 2017.
 (c)Form of Employment Agreement between the Company and each of the following: Felicia F. Norwood,
Prakash Patel and Leah Stark incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9(d) to the Company’s Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2018.
-147-
Exhibit
Number Exhibit
10.10*Offer Letter, by and between the Company and Gail Boudreaux, dated as of November 5, 2017, incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 6, 2017.
10.11*Transition Letter Agreement between the Company and Joseph R. Swedish, dated as of November 5, 2017,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 6,
2017.
10.12 Blue Cross License Agreement by and between Blue Cross Blue Shield Association and the Company, including
revisions, if any, adopted by the Member Plans through September 27, 2018.
10.13 Blue Shield License Agreement by and between Blue Cross Blue Shield Association and the Company, including
revisions, if any, adopted by the Member Plans through September 27, 2018.
21 Subsidiaries of the Company.
23 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
31.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and Rule 15d-14(a) of the Exchange Act Rules,
as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and Rule 15d-14(a) of the Exchange Act Rules,
as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
101 The following materials from Anthem, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018,
formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets; (ii) the
Consolidated Statements of Income; (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income; (iv) the
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows; (v) the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity; (vi) the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements and (vii) Financial Statement Schedule II.
* Indicates management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.
(b) Exhibits
The response to this portion of Item 15 is set forth in paragraph (a) 3 above.
(c) Financial Statement Schedule
Schedule II—Condensed Financial Information of Registrant (Parent Company Only).
ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY.
None.
-148-
Schedule II—Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
Anthem, Inc. (Parent Company Only)
Balance Sheets
(In millions, except shar e data)December  31,
2018December  31,
2017
Assets  
Current assets:  
Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,290 $ 956
Fixed maturity securities, current (amortized cost of $589 and $342) 573 346
Equity securities, current 86 1,458
Other invested assets, current 10 5
Other receivables 131 61
Income taxes receivable — 75
Net due from subsidiaries 170 2,428
Securities lending collateral 35 15
Other current assets 320 228
Total current assets 2,615 5,572
Long-term investments:  
Equity securities 6 6
Other invested assets, long-term 616 644
Property and equipment, net 186 118
Deferred tax assets, net 209 162
Investments in subsidiaries 44,877 40,21 1
Other noncurrent assets 225 89
Total assets $ 48,734 $ 46,802
Liabilities and shar eholders’  equity  
Liabilities  
Current liabilities:  
Accounts payable and accrued expenses $ 1,429 $ 1,232
Security trades pending payable — 11
Securities lending payable 35 14
Income taxes payable 112 —
Current portion of long-term debt 849 1,275
Other current liabilities 235 219
Total current liabilities 2,660 2,751
Long-term debt, less current portion 17,192 17,357
Other noncurrent liabilities 341 191
Total liabilities 20,193 20,299
Commitments and contingencies—Note 5
Shar eholders’  equity  
Preferred stock, without par value, shares authorized - 100,000,000; shares issued and outstanding - none — —
Common stock, par value $0.01, shares authorized - 900,000,000; shares issued and outstanding -
257,395,577 and 256,084,913 3 3
Additional paid-in capital 9,536 8,547
Retained earnings 19,988 18,054
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (986) (101)
Total shar eholders’  equity 28,541 26,503
Total liabilities and shar eholders’  equity $ 48,734 $ 46,802
 
See accompanying notes.
-149-
Anthem, Inc. (Parent Company Only)
Statements of Income
 Years ended December 31
(In millions) 2018 2017 2016
Revenues  
Net investment income $ 39$ 64$ 75
Net realized losses on financial instruments (46) (18) (195)
Other-than-temporary impairment losses on investments:  
Total other-than-temporary impairment losses on investments (15) (7) (65)
Portion of other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in other
comprehensive (loss) income — — 17
Other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in income (15) (7) (48)
Other revenue 2 — —
Total (losses) revenues (20) 39 (168)
Expenses  
General and administrative expense 86 437 270
Interest expense 723 727 719
Loss on extinguishment of debt 11 283 —
Total expenses 820 1,447 989
Loss before income tax credits and equity in net income of subsidiaries (840) (1,408) (1,157)
Income tax credits (238) (216) (439)
Equity in net income of subsidiaries 4,352 5,035 3,188
Net income $ 3,750$ 3,843$ 2,470
 See accompanying notes.
-150-
Anthem, Inc. (Parent Company Only)
Statements of Comprehensive Income
 Years ended December 31
(in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Net income $ 3,750$ 3,843$ 2,470
Other comprehensive income, net of tax:  
Change in net unrealized gains/losses on investments (418) 173 118
Change in non-credit component of other-than-temporary impairment losses on
investments (2) 4 5
Change in net unrealized gains/losses on cash flow hedges 37 (65) (87)
Change in net periodic pension and postretirement costs (90) 51 (13)
Foreign currency translation adjustments (1) 3 2
Other comprehensive (loss) income (474) 166 25
Total comprehensive income $ 3,276$ 4,009$ 2,495
 
See accompanying notes.
-151-
Anthem, Inc. (Parent Company Only)
Statements of Cash Flows
 Years ended December  31
(In millions) 2018 2017  2016
Operating activities     
Net income $ 3,750 $ 3,843  $ 2,470
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:    
Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries (744) (2,437 ) (502)
Net realized losses on financial instruments 46 18 195
Other -than-temporary impairment losses recognized in income 15 7 48
Loss on extinguishment of debt 11 283  —
Loss on disposal of assets — — 2
Deferred income taxes (43) (33) (7)
Amortization, net of accretion 43 25 34
Depreciation expense 70 69 70
Share-based compensation 226 170  165
Excess tax benefits from share-based compensation — — (54)
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:    
Receivables, net (73) (17) 18
Other invested assets, current (5) (1) 1
Other assets (225) (102) 213
Amounts due to/from subsidiaries 2,259 (1,034 ) (1,488 )
Accounts payable and accrued expenses 303 491  44
Other liabilities 154 (61) (31)
Income taxes 187 (6) 198
Other , net 1 (2) 5
Net cash pr ovided by operating activities 5,975 1,213  1,381
Investing activities     
Purchases of investments (800) (3,814 ) (2,875 )
Proceeds from sales, maturities, calls and redemptions of investments 1,865 2,595  3,310
Changes in collateral and settlement of non-hedging derivatives — 65 (34)
Capitalization of subsidiaries (4,379 ) (124) (295)
Changes in securities lending collateral (21) 25 92
Purchases of property and equipment, net of sales (137) (44) (99)
Other , net 4 18 (8)
Net cash (used in) pr ovided by investing activities (3,468 ) (1,279 ) 91
Financing activities     
Net (repayments of) proceeds from commercial paper borrowings (107) 175  (53)
Proceeds from long-term borrowings 835 5,458  —
Repayments of long-term borrowings (1,684 ) (2,815 ) —
Changes in securities lending payable 21 (25) (91)
Changes in bank overdrafts (107) 51 30
Proceeds from sale of put options 1 1 —
Proceeds from issuance of common stock under Equity Units stock purchase contracts 1,250 — —
Repurchase and retirement of common stock (1,685 ) (1,998 ) —
Change in collateral and settlements of debt-related derivatives 23 (149) (360)
Cash dividends (812) (737) (715)
Proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans 173 225  120
Taxes paid through withholding of common stock under employee stock plans (81) (47) (67)
Excess tax benefits from share-based compensation — — 54
Net cash (used in) pr ovided by financing activities (2,173 ) 139  (1,082 )
Change in cash and cash equivalents 334 73 390
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 956 883  493
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 1,290 $ 956  $ 883
 
See accompanying notes.
-152-
Anthem, Inc.
(Parent Company Only)
Notes to Condensed Financial Statements
December 31, 2018
(In Millions, Except Per Share Data)
1. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies
In the parent company only financial statements of Anthem, Inc., or Anthem, Anthem’s investment in subsidiaries is stated at
cost plus equity in undistributed earnings of the subsidiaries. Anthem’s share of net income of its unconsolidated subsidiaries is
included in income using the equity method of accounting.
Certain amounts presented in the parent company only financial statements are eliminated in the consolidated financial
statements of Anthem.
Certain prior year amounts have been adjusted to conform to the current year rounding convention of reporting financial data
in whole millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted.
Anthem’s parent company only financial statements should be read in conjunction with Anthem’s audited consolidated
financial statements and the accompanying notes included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
2. Subsidiary Transactions
Dividends from Subsidiaries
Anthem received cash dividends from subsidiaries of $3,606, $2,268 and $2,689 during 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Dividends to Subsidiaries
Certain subsidiaries of Anthem own shares of Anthem common stock. Anthem paid cash dividends to subsidiaries related to
these shares of common stock in the amount of $36, $32 and $31 during 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Investments in Subsidiaries
Capital contributions to subsidiaries were $4,379, $124 and $295 during 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Amounts Due to and From Subsidiaries
At December 31, 2018 and 2017, Anthem reported amounts due from subsidiaries of $170 and $2,428, respectively. The
amounts due from subsidiaries primarily include amounts for allocated administrative expenses or cash held overnight at the parent
level resulting from daily cash management activities. These items are routinely settled, and as such, are classified as current assets
or liabilities.
Guarantees on Behalf of Subsidiaries
Anthem guarantees contractual or financial obligations or solvency requirements for certain of its subsidiaries. These
guarantees approximated $580 at December 31, 2018. There were no payments made on these guarantees in 2018.
3. Derivative Financial Instruments
The information regarding derivative financial instruments contained in Note 5, “Derivative Financial Instruments,” of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of Anthem and its subsidiaries, included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, is incorporated herein by reference.
-153-
4. Long-Term Debt
The information regarding long-term debt contained in Note 12, “Debt,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of
Anthem and its subsidiaries, included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, is incorporated herein by reference.
5. Commitments and Contingencies
The information regarding commitments and contingencies contained in Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies,” of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of Anthem and its subsidiaries, included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, is incorporated herein by reference.
6. Capital Stock
The information regarding capital stock contained in Note 14, “Capital Stock,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements of Anthem and its subsidiaries, included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, is incorporated herein
by reference.
-154-
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
ANTHEM, INC.
  
By: /s/    GAIL K. BOUDREAUX       
 Gail K. Boudreaux
President and Chief Executive Officer
Dated: February 20, 2019
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 
Signature   Title Date
/s/    GAIL K. BOUDREAUX   President and Chief Executive Officer, Director
(Principal Executive Officer)February 20, 2019
Gail K. Boudreaux  
/s/    JOHN E. GALLINA          Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer)February 20, 2019
John E. Gallina  
/s/    RONALD W. PENCZEK          Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer
(Principal Accounting Officer)February 20, 2019
Ronald W. Penczek  
/s/    ELIZABETH E. TALLETT Chair of the Board February 20, 2019
Elizabeth E. Tallett  
/s/ R. KERRY CLARK         Director February 20, 2019
R. Kerry Clark  
/s/ ROBERT L. DIXON, JR.          Director February 20, 2019
Robert L. Dixon, Jr.  
/s/    LEWIS HAY III       Director February 20, 2019
Lewis Hay III  
/s/    JULIE A. HILL          Director February 20, 2019
Julie A. Hill  
/s/    BAHIJA JALLAL   Director February 20, 2019
Bahija Jallal  
/s/    ANTONIO F. NERI Director February 20, 2019
Antonio F. Neri  
/s/    RAMIRO G. PERU          Director February 20, 2019
Ramiro G. Peru  
/s/ GEORGE A. SCHAEFER, JR.        Director February 20, 2019
George A. Schaefer, Jr.  
  
  
-155-
