UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
☑ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2021
or
☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from      to
Commission file number:
1-6523
Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter:
Bank of America Corporation
State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization:
Delaware
IRS Employer Identification No.:
56-0906609
Address of principal executive offices:
Bank of America Corporate Center
100 N. Tryon Street
Charlotte, North Carolina 28255
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:
(704) 386-5681
Securities registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class Trading Symbol(s)Name of each exchange on which
registered
Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share BAC New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share BAC PrE New York Stock Exchange
 of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share BAC PrB New York Stock Exchange
 of 6.000% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series GG
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share BAC PrK New York Stock Exchange
 of 5.875% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series HH
7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L BAC PrL New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,200th interest in a share BML PrG New York Stock Exchange
of Bank of America Corporation Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1
Title of each class Trading Symbol(s)Name of each exchange on which
registered
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,200th interest in a share BML PrH New York Stock Exchange
 of Bank of America Corporation Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,200th interest in a share BML PrJ New York Stock Exchange
 of Bank of America Corporation Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 4
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,200th interest in a share BML PrL New York Stock Exchange
 of Bank of America Corporation Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 5
Floating Rate Preferred Hybrid Income Term Securities of BAC Capital BAC/PF New York Stock Exchange
 Trust XIII (and the guarantee related thereto)
5.63% Fixed to Floating Rate Preferred Hybrid Income Term Securities BAC/PG New York Stock Exchange
 of BAC Capital Trust XIV (and the guarantee related thereto)
Income Capital Obligation Notes initially due December 15, 2066 of MER PrK New York Stock Exchange
Bank of America Corporation
Senior Medium-Term Notes, Series A, Step Up Callable Notes, due BAC/31B New York Stock Exchange
 November 28, 2031 of BofA Finance LLC (and the guarantee
of the Registrant with respect thereto)
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share BAC PrM New York Stock Exchange
 of 5.375% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series KK
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share BAC PrN New York Stock Exchange
of 5.000% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series LL
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share BAC PrO New York Stock Exchange
of 4.375% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series NN
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share BAC PrP New York Stock Exchange
of 4.125% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series PP
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share BAC PrQ New York Stock Exchange
of 4.250% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series QQ
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share BAC PrS New York Stock Exchange
of 4.750% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series SS
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ☑ No ☐
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ☐ No ☑
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes ☑ No ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such
files).  Yes ☑ No ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an
emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth
company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer ☑ Accelerated filer ☐ Non-accelerated filer ☐ Smaller reporting company ☐
                                            Emerging growth company ☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any
new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of its internal
control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that
prepared or issued its audit report.  ☑
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes ☐ No ☑
As of June 30, 2021, the aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock (“Common Stock”) held by non-affiliates was approximately
$349,925,254,902. At February 18, 2022, there were 8,069,801,301 shares of Common Stock outstanding.
Documents incorporated by reference: Portions of the definitive proxy statement relating to the registrant’s 2022 annual meeting of shareholders are
incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K in response to Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of Part III.
Table of Contents
Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries
Part I  Page
Item 1. Business 2
Item 1A .Risk Factors 7
Item 1B. Unresolved Staf f Comments 24
Item 2. Properties 24
Item 3. Legal Proceedings 24
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24
Part II   
Item 5. Market for Registrant’ s Common Equity , Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities24
Item 6. [Reserved] 25
Item 7. Management’ s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 86
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 86
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 171
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 171
Item 9B. Other Information 171
Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 172
Part III   
Item 10. Directors, Executive Of ficers and Corporate Governance 172
Item 11. Executive Compensation 173
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 173
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 173
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 173
Part IV   
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 174
Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 177
1 Bank of America
Part I
Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries
Item 1. Business
Bank of America Corporation is a Delaware corporation, a bank
holding company (BHC) and a financial holding company . When
used in this report, “the Corporation,” “we,” “us” and “our” may
refer to Bank of America Corporation individually , Bank of
America Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of Bank of
America Corporation’ s subsidiaries or affiliates. As part of our
efforts to streamline the Corporation’ s organizational structure
and reduce complexity and costs, the Corporation has reduced
and intends to continue  to reduce the number of its corporate
subsidiaries, including through intercompany mergers.
Bank of America is one of the world’ s largest financial
institutions, serving individual consumers, small- and middle-
market businesses, institutional investors, large corporations and
governments with a full range of banking, investing, asset
management and other financial and risk management products
and services. Our princ ipal executive offices are located in the
Bank of America Corporate Center , 100 North Tryon Street,
Charlotte, North Carolina 28255.
Bank of America’ s website is www .bankofamerica.com, and
the Investor Relations portion of our website is
http://investor .bankofamerica.com. We use our website to
distribute company information, including as a means of
disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with
our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. We routinely
post and make accessible financial and other information,
including environment al, social and governance (ESG)
information, regarding the Corporation on our website. Investors
should moni tor the Investor Relations portion of our website, in
addition to our press releases, U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) filings, public conference calls and webcasts.
Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q, Curre nt Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) are available on
the Investor Relations portion of our website as soon as
reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports
with, or furnish them to, the SEC and at the SEC’ s website,
www .sec.gov . Notwithstanding the foregoing, the information
contained on our website as referenced in this paragraph, or
otherwise in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, is not incorporated
by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Also, we
make availa ble on the Investor Relations portion of our website:
(i) our Code of Conduct; (ii) our Corporate Governance
Guidelines; and (iii) the charter of each active committee of our
Board of Directors (the Board). Our Code of Conduct constitutes
a “code of ethics” and a “code of business conduct and ethics”
that applies to the required individuals associated with the
Corporation for purposes of the respective rules of the SEC and
the New York Stock Exchange. We also intend to disclose any
amendments to our Code of Conduct and waivers of our Code of
Conduct required to be disclosed by the rules of the SEC and the
New York Stock Exchan ge on the Investor Relations portion of
our website. All of these corporate governance materials are also
available free of charge in print to shareholde rs who request
them in writing to: Bank of America Corporation, Attention: Office
of the Corporate Secretary , Bank of America Corporate Center ,
100 North Tryon Street, NC1-007-56-06, Charlotte, North
Carolina 28255.Segments
Through our various bank and nonbank subsidiaries throughout
the U.S. and in international markets, we provide a diversified
range of banking and nonbank financial services and products
through four business segments: Consumer Banking , Glob al
Wealth & Investment Management (GWIM) , Global Banking and
Global Markets , with the remaining operations recorded in All
Other . Additional information related to our business segments
and the products and services they provide is included in the
information set forth on pages 36 through 46 of Item 7.
Management’ s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations (MD&A) and Note 23 – Business
Segment Information  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Competition
We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors
include banks, thrifts, credit unions, investmen t banking firms,
investment advisory firms, brokerage firms, investment
companies, insurance companies, mortgage banking companies,
credit card issuers, mutual fund companies, hedge funds, private
equity firms, and e-commerce and other internet-based
companies. We compete with some of these competitors globally
and with others on a regional or product-specific basis.
Competition is based on a number of factors including, among
others, customer service, quality and range of products and
services offered, technology , price, fees, reputati on, interest rates
on loans and deposits, lending limits, customer convenience and
experience and relationships in relevant markets. Our ability to
continue to compete effectively also depends in large part on our
ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate our
existing employees, while managing compensation and other
costs.
Human Capital Resources
We strive to make Bank of America a great place to work for our
employees. We value our employees and seek to establish and
maintain human resource policies that are consistent with our
core values and that help realize the power of our people. Our
Board and its Compen sation and Human Capital Committee
provide oversight of our human capital manage ment strategies,
programs and practices . The Corporation’ s senior management
provides regular briefing s on human capital matters to the Board
and its Committees to facilitate the Board’ s oversight.
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Corporation employed
approximately 208,000 and 213,000 employee s, of which 80
percent and 82 percent were located in the U.S., respectively .
None of our U.S. employees are subject to a collective
bargaining agreement. Additionally , in 2021 and 2020, the
Corporation’ s compensation and benefits expense was $36.1
billion and $32.7 billion, or 61 percent and 59 percent, of total
noninterest expense.
Diversity and Inclusion
The Corporation’ s commitment to diversity and inclusion starts at
the top with oversight from our Board and CEO. The
Corporation’ s senior management sets the diversity and inclusion
goals, and the Chief Human Resources Officer and Chief
Diversity & Inclusion Officer partner with our CEO and senior
management to drive our diversity and inclusion strategy ,
programs, initiatives and policies. The Global Diversity and
Inclusion Council, which consists of senior executives from every
line of business and region, is chaired by our CEO and has
Bank of America 2
been in place for over 20 years. The Council sponsors and
supports business, operating unit and region al diversity and
inclusion councils to ensure alignment with enterprise diversity
strategies and goals.
Our practices and policies have resulted in strong
representation across the Corporation where our broad employee
population mirrors the clients and communities we serve. We
have a Board and senior management team that are 50 percent
and 55 percent racially , ethnically and gender diverse. As of
December 31, 2021, of global employees who self-identified, 50
percent of employees were women, and, among U.S.-based
employees who self-identified, 49 percent were people of color ,
including 13 percent who were Asian, 14 percent who were
Black/African American and 19 percent who were
Hispanic/Latino. As of December 31, 2021, the Corporation’ s top
three management levels in relation to the CEO were composed
of more than 42 percen t women globally and 24 percent people
of color in the U.S., including eight percent who were Asian, nine
percent who were Black/African American and six percent who
were Hispanic/Latino. Additionally , as of December 31, 2021, the
Corporation’ s managers at all levels were composed of 42
percent women globally and 41 percent peopl e of color in the
U.S., includi ng 13 percent who were Asian, 10 percent who were
Black/African American and 16 percent who were
Hispanic/Latino. These workforce diversity metrics are reported
regularly to the senior management team and to the Board.
We invest in our talent by offering a range of development
programs and resources that allow employees to develop and
progress in their careers. We reinforce our commitment to
diversity and inclusion by investing internally in our employee
networks and by facilitating enterprise-wide  learning and
conversations about various diversity and inclusion topics and
issues. Further , we partner with various external organizations,
which focus on advancing diverse talent. We also have practices
in place for attracting and retaining diverse talent, including
campus recruitment. For example, in 2021, 46 percent of our
global camp us hires were women, and, in the U.S., 53 percent
were people of color .
Employee Engagement and Talent Retention
As part of our ongoing efforts to make the Corporation a great
place to work, we have conducted a confidential annual
Employee Engagement Survey (Survey) for nearly two decades.
The Survey results are reviewed by the Board and senior
management and used to assist in reviewing the Corporation’ s
human capital strategies, programs and practices. In 2021, 89
percent of the Corporation’ s employees participated in the
Survey , and our Employee Engagement Index, an overall
measure of employee satisfaction with the Corporation, was 88
percent. Our turnover among employees was 12 percent in 2021
and seven percent in 2020. Our pre-pandemic levels of turnover
in 2019 and 2018 were 11 percent and 12 percent.
Additionally , the Corporation provides a variety  of resources
to help employees grow in their current roles and build new skills,
including resources to help employees find new opportunities, re-
skill and seek leadership positions. The learning and
development strategy is grounded in the development of
horizontal skills delivere d throughout the organization. Senior
leaders, managers and teammates are onboarded and build
horizontal skills, as well as role-specific skills, to drive high
performance. This approach also facilitates internal mobility and
promotion of talent to build a bench of qualified managers and
leaders. In 2021, more than 26,000 employees found new roles
within the Corporation and wedelivered more than 10 million hours of training and development
to our teammates through the Corporation’ s training academy .
Fair and Equitable Compensation
The Corpora tion is committed to racial and gend er pay equity by
striving to compensate all of our employees fairly and equitably .
We maintain robust policies and practices that reinforce our
commitment, including reviews conducted by a third-party
consultant with oversight from our Board and senior
management. In 2021, our review covered our regional hubs
(U.S., U.K., France, Ireland, Hong Kong and Singapore) and
India and showed that compensation received by women, on
average, was greater than 99 percent of that received by men in
comparable positions and, in the U.S., compensation received by
people of color was, on average, greater than 99 percent of that
received by teammates who are not people of color in
comparable positions.
We also strive to pay our employees fairly based on market
rates for their roles, experience and how they perform. We
regularly benchmark against other companies both within and
outside our industry to help ensure our pay is competitive. In the
fourth quarter of 2021, we raised our minimum hourly wage for
U.S. employ ees to $21 per hour, which is above all governmental
minimum wage levels in all jurisdictions in which we operate in
the U.S., and announce d plans to increase to $25 per hour by
2025.
Health and Wellness – 2021 Focus
The Corporation also is committed to supporting employees’
physical, emotional and financial wellness by offering flexible and
competitive benefits, including comprehensi ve health and
insurance benefits and wellness resources. In 2021, we
continued efforts to support our employees through the ongoing
health crisis resulting from the Coronavirus Disease 2019
(COVID-19) pandemic (the pandemic). We continued to monitor
guidance from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, medical boards and health authorities and prioritized
sharing such guidance with our teammates. Other benefits and
resources related to the pandemic included offering no-cost
COVID-19 testing, paid time off to allow teammates to get
vaccinated for COVID-19, providing teammates with incentives
for getting the vaccine and booster , hosting a medical expert
education series and providing on-site COVID-19 vaccine and
booster clinics.
We continued our efforts around providing affordable access
to healthcare, including offering no-cost, 24/7 access to virtual
general medical and behavioral health resources to help our
enrolled U.S. teammates stay healthy , both physically and
emotionally . We kept U.S. health insurance prem iums unchanged
for teammates earning less than $50,000 for the ninth year in a
row, and had nominal premium increases for teammates earning
from $50,00 0 to $100,000 for the fifth year in a row. We also
provided preventative care medications at no cost for U.S.
teammates enrolled in the Bank’ s medical plan.
We have expanded our child and adult care solutions for
eligible U.S. teammates to help better support their families and
dependents, including providing up to 50 days of backup care for
both adults and children and expanding access to our
reimbursement program  to help employees manage child care
expenses. Additional support to working parents includes
parental leave and time off from work to care for and bond with a
newborn or adopted child (16 weeks paid plus 10 weeks unpaid
for a total of up to 26 weeks).
3 Bank of America
For more information about our human capital management,
see the Corporation’ s website and 2021 Annual Report to
shareholders that will be available on the Investor Relations
portion of our website in March 2022 (the content of which is not
incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K).
Government Supervision and Regulation
The following discussion describes, among other things,
elements of an extens ive regulatory framework applicable to
BHCs, finan cial holding  companies, banks and broker-dealers,
including specific information about Bank of America.
We are subject to an extensive regulatory framework
applicable to BHCs, financial holding companies and banks and
other financial services entities. U.S. federal regulation of banks,
BHCs and financial holding companies is intended primarily for
the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund
(DIF) rather than for the protection of shareholders and creditors.
As a registered financial holding company and BHC, the
Corporation is subject to the supervision of, and regular
inspection by, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System (Federal Reserve). Our U.S. bank subsidiaries (the
Banks), organized as national banking associations, are subject
to regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Federal Reserve. In
addition, the Federal Reserve and the OCC have adopted
guidelines that establish minimum standards for the design,
implementation and board oversight of BHCs’  and national banks’
risk governance frameworks. U.S. financial holding companies,
and the companies under their control, are permitted to engage
in activities considered “financial in nature” as defined by the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and related Federal Reserve
interpretations. The Corporation's status as a financial holding
company is conditioned upon maintaining certain eligibility
requirements for both the Corporation and its U.S. depository
institution subsidiaries,  including minimum capital ratios,
supervisory ratings and, in the case of the depos itory institutions,
at least satisfactory Com munity Reinvestment Act ratings. Failure
to be an eligible financial holding company could result in the
Federal Reserve limiting  Bank of America's activities, including
potential acquisitions.
The scope of the laws and regulations and the intensity of the
supervision to which we are subject have increased over the past
several years, beginning with the response to the financial crisis,
as well as other factors such as technological and market
changes. In addition, the banking and financial services sector is
subject to substantial regulatory enforcement and fines. Many of
these chang es have occurred as a result of the 2010 Dodd-Frank
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Financial
Reform Act). We cannot assess whether there will be any
additional major changes in the regulatory environment and
expect that our business will remain subject to continuing and
extensive regulation and supervision.
We are also subject to various other laws and regulations, as
well as supervision and examination by other regulatory
agencies, all of which directly or indirectly affect our entities,
management and ability to make distributions to shareholders.
For instance, our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to both
U.S. and international regulation, including supervision by the
SEC, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and New York Stock
Exchange, among others; our futures commission merchant
subsidiaries supporting commodities and deriva tives businesses
in the U.S. are subject to regulation by andsupervision of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
(CFTC), National Futur es Association, the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange, and in the case of the Banks, certain banking
regulators; our insurance activities are subject to licensing and
regulation by state insurance regulatory agencies; and our
consumer financial products and services are regulated by the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).
Our non-U.S. businesses are also subject to extensive
regulation by various non-U.S. regulators, including
governments, securities exchanges, prudential regulators, central
banks and other regulatory bodies, in the jurisdictions in which
those businesses operate. For example, our financial services
entities in the United Kingdom (U.K.), Ireland and France are
subject to regulation by the Prudential Regulatory Authority and
Financial Conduct Authority , the European Central Bank and
Central Bank of Ireland, and the Autorité de Contrôle Prudentiel
et de Résolution and Autorité des Marc hés Financiers,
respectively .
Source of Strength
Under the Financial Reform Act and Federal Reserve policy ,
BHCs are expected to act as a source of financial strength to
each subsidiary bank and to commit resources  to support each
such subsidiary . Similarly , under the cross-guarantee provisions
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of
1991 (FDICIA), in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by
the FDIC, either as a result of default of a bank subsidiary or
related to FDIC assistance provided to such a subsidiary in
danger of default, the affiliate banks of such a subsidiary may be
assessed for the FDIC’ s loss, subject to certain exceptions.
Transactions with Affiliates
Pursuant to Section 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, as
implemented by the Federal Reserve’ s Regulation W, the Banks
are subject to restriction s that limit certain types of transactions
between the Banks and their nonbank affiliates.  In general, U.S.
banks are subject to quantitative and qualitative limits on
extensions of credit, purchases of assets and certain other
transactions involving their nonbank affiliates. Additionally ,
transactions between U.S. banks and their nonbank affiliates are
required to be on arm’s length terms and must be consistent with
standards of safety and soundness.
Deposit Insurance
Deposits placed at U.S. domiciled banks are insured by the
FDIC, subject to limits and conditions of applicable law and the
FDIC’ s regulations. Pursuant to the Financial Reform Act, FDIC
insurance coverage limits are $250,000 per depositor , per
insured bank for each account ownership category . All insured
depository institutions are required to pay assessments to the
FDIC in order to fund the DIF .
The FDIC is required to maintain at least a designated
minimum ratio of the DIF to insured deposits in the U.S. The
FDIC adopted regulations that establish a long-term target DIF
ratio of greater than two percent. As of the date of this report, the
DIF ratio is below this required target, and the FDIC has adopted
a restoration plan that may result in increased deposit insurance
assessments. Deposit insurance assessment rates are subject to
change by the FDIC and will be impacted by the overall economy
and the stability of the banking industry as a whole. For more
information regarding deposit insurance, see Item 1A. Risk
Factors – Regulatory , Compliance and Legal on page 18.
Bank of America 4
Capital, Liquidity and Operational Requirements
As a financial holding company , we and our bank subsidiaries are
subject to the regulatory  capital and liquidity rules issued by the
Federal Reserve and other U.S. banking regulators, including the
OCC and the FDIC. These rules are complex and are evolving as
U.S. and international regulatory authorities propose and enact
amendments to these rules. The Corporation seeks to manage
its capital position to maintain sufficient capital to satisfy these
regulatory rules and to support our business activities. These
continually evolving rules are likely to influence our planning
processes and may require additional regulatory capital and
liquidity , as well as impose additional operational and compliance
costs on the Corporation.
For more information on regulatory capital rules, capital
composition and pending or proposed regulatory capital changes,
see Capital Management on page 49, and Note 16 – Regulatory
Requirements and Restrictions  to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, which are incorporated by reference in this Item 1.
Distributions
We are subject to various regulatory policies and requirements
relating to capital actions, including payment of dividends and
common stock repurchases. For instance, Federal Reserve
regulations require major U.S. BHCs to submit a capital plan as
part of an annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review
(CCAR).
Our ability to pay dividends and make common stock
repurchases depends in part on our ability to maintain regulatory
capital levels above minimum requirements plus buffers and non-
capital standards established under the FDICIA. To the extent
that the Federal Reserve increases our stress capital buffer
(SCB), global systemically important bank (G-SIB) surcharge or
countercyclical capital buffer, our returns of capital to
shareholders could decrease. As part of its CCAR, the Federal
Reserve conducts stress testing on parts of our business using
hypothetical economic scenarios prepared by the Federal
Reserve. Those scenarios may affect our CCAR stress test
results, which may impa ct the level of our SCB. Additionally , the
Federal Reserve may impose limitations or prohibitions on taking
capital actions such as paying or increasing common stock
dividends or repurchasing common stock. For example, as a
result of the economic uncertainty resulting from the pandemic, in
the second half of 2020 the Federal Reserve introduced certain
limitations to capital distributions for all large banks, including the
Corporation, which were removed ef fective July 1, 2021.
If the Feder al Reserve finds that any of our Banks are not
“well-capitalized” or “well-managed,” we would  be required to
enter into an agreement  with the Federal Reserve to comply with
all applicable capital and management requirements, which may
contain additional limitations or conditions relating to our
activities. Additionally , the applicable federal regulatory authority
is authorized to determi ne, under certain circum stances relating
to the financial condition of a bank or BHC, that the payment of
dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit
payment thereof.
For more information regarding the requiremen ts relating to
the payment of dividends, including the minimum capital
requirements, see Note 13 – Shareholders’  Equity  and Note 16 –
Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions  to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
Many of our subsidiaries, including our bank and broker-
dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend
payments, or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce theflow of funds from those  subsidiaries to the parent company or
other subsidiaries. The rights of the Corporation, our
shareholders and our creditors to participate in any distribution of
the assets or earnings of our subsidiaries are further subject to
the prior claims of creditors of the respective subsidiaries.
Resolution Planning
As a BHC  with greater than $250 billion of assets, the
Corporation is required by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC to
periodically submit a plan for a rapid and orderly  resolution in the
event of material financial distress or failure.
Such resolut ion plan is intended to be a detailed roadmap for
the orderly resolution of the BHC, including the continued
operations or solvent wind down of its material entities, pursuant
to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code under one or more hypothetical
scenarios assuming no extraordinary government assistance.
If both the Federal Reserve and the FDIC deter mine that the
BHC’ s plan is not credible, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC
may jointly impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity
requirements or restrictions on growth, activities or operations. A
summary of our plan is available on the Federal Reserve and
FDIC websites.
The FDIC also requires the submission of a resolution plan for
Bank of America, National Association (BANA), which must
describe how the insured depository institution would be resolved
under the bank resolution provisions of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act. A description of this plan is available on the
FDIC’ s website.
We continue to make substantial progress to enhance our
resolvability , which includes continued impro vements to our
preparedness capabilitie s to implement our resolution plan, both
from a financial and operational standpoint.
Across international jurisdictions, resolution planning is the
responsibility of national resolution authoritie s (RA). Among
those, the jurisdictions with the greatest impact to the
Corporation’ s subsidiari es are the U.K., Ireland and France,
where rules have been issued requiring the submission of
significant information about locally incorporated subsidiaries as
well as the Corporation’ s banking branches located in those
jurisdictions that are deemed to be material for resolution
planning purposes. As a result of the RA's review of the
submitted information, we could be required to take certain
actions over the next several years that could increase operating
costs and potentially result in the restructuring of certain
businesses and subsidiaries.
For more information regarding our resolution plan, see Item
1A. Risk Factors – Liquidity on page 10.
Insolvency and the Orderly Liquidation Authority
Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC may be
appointed receiver of an insured depository institution if it is
insolvent or in certain other circumstances. In addition, under the
Financial Reform Act, when a systemically important financial
institution (SIFI) such as the Corporation is in default or danger of
default, the FDIC may be appointed receiver in order to conduct
an orderly liquidation of such institution. In the event of such
appointment, the FDIC could, among other things, invoke the
orderly liquidation authority , instead of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code,
if the Secretary of the Treasury makes certain financial distress
and systemic risk determinations. The orderly liquidation
authority is modeled in part on the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act, but also adopts certain concepts from the U.S. Bankruptcy
Code.
5 Bank of America
The orderly liquidation authority contains certain differences
from the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. For example, in certain
circumstances, the FDIC could permit payment of obligations it
determines to be systemically significant (e.g., short-term
creditors or operating creditors) in lieu of paying other obligations
(e.g., long-term creditors) without the need to obtain creditors’
consent or prior court review . The insolvency and resolution
process could also lead to a large reduction or total elimination of
the value of a BHC’ s outstanding equity , as well as impairment or
elimination of certain debt.
Under the FDIC’ s “single  point of entry” strategy for resolving
SIFIs, the FDIC could replace a distressed BHC with a bridge
holding company , which could continue operations and result in
an orderly resolution of the underlying bank, but whose equity is
held solely for the benefit of creditors of the original BHC.
Furthermore, the Federal Reserve requires  that BHCs
maintain minimum levels of long-term debt required to provide
adequate loss absorbing capacity in the event of a resolution.
For more information regarding our resolution, see Item 1A.
Risk Factors – Liquidity on page 10.
Limitations on Acquisitions
The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act
of 1994 permits a BHC to acquire banks locate d in states other
than its home state without regard to state law, subject to certain
conditions, including the condition that the BHC, after and as a
result of the acquisition,  controls no more than 10 percent of the
total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the
U.S. and no more than 30 percent or such lesser or greater
amount set by state law of such deposits in that state. At June
30, 2021, we held greater than 10 percent of the total amount of
deposits of insured depository institutions in the U.S.
In addition, the Financial Reform Act restricts acquisitions by
a financial institution if, as a result of the acquisition, the total
liabilities of the financia l institution would exceed 10 percent of
the total liabilities of all financial institutions in the U.S. At June
30, 2021, our liabilities did not exceed 10 percent of the total
liabilities of all financial institutions in the U.S.
The Volcker Rule
The Volcker Rule prohibits insured depository  institutions and
companies affiliated with insured deposi tory institutions
(collectively , banking entities) from engagin g in short-term
proprietary trading of certain securities, derivatives, commodity
futures and options for their own account. The Volcker Rule also
imposes limits on banking entities’  investments in, and other
relationships with, hedge funds and private equity funds. The
Volcker Rule provides exemptions for certain activities, including
market making, underw riting, hedging, trading in government
obligations, insurance company activities and organizing and
offering hedge funds and private equity funds. The Volcker Rule
also clarifies that certain activities are not prohibited, including
acting as agent, broker or custodian. A banking entity with
significant trading operations, such as the Corporation, is
required to maintain a detailed compliance program to comply
with the restrictions of the V olcker Rule.
Derivatives
Our derivatives operations are subject to extensive regulation
globally . These operations are subject to regulation under the
Financial Reform Act, the European Union (EU) Markets in
Financial Instruments Directive and Regulation, the European
Market Infrastructure Regulation, analogous U.K. regulatory
regimes and similar regulatory regimes in other jurisdictions that
regulate or will regulate the derivatives markets in which weoperate by, among other things: requiring clearing and exchange
trading of certain derivatives; enforcing existing or imposing new
capital, margin, reporting, registration and business conduct
requirements for certain market participants; imposing position
limits on certain over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives; and
imposing derivatives trading transparency requirements. These
regulations are already in effect in many markets in which we
operate.
In addition, many G-20 jurisdictions, including the U.S., U.K.,
and Japan, have adopted resolution stay regulations to address
concerns that the close-out of derivatives and other financial
contracts in resolution could impede orderly resolution of G-SIBs,
and additional jurisdictions are expected to follow suit. In
addition, the EU has implemented EU-wide resolution stay
requirements. Generally , these resolution stay regulations require
amendment of certain financial contracts to provide for
contractual recognition of stays of termination rights under
various statutory resolution regimes and a stay on the exercise of
cross-default rights based on an affiliate’ s entry into insolvency
proceedings. As resolution stay regulations of a particular
jurisdiction applicable to us go into effect, we amend impacted
financial contracts in compliance with such regulations either as a
regulated entity or as a counterparty facing a regulated entity in
such jurisdiction.
Consumer Regulations
Our consumer businesses are subject to extensive regulation
and oversight by federal and state regulators. Certain federal
consumer finance laws to which we are subje ct, including the
Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Home Mortgage  Disclosure Act,
Electronic Fund Transfer Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Real
Estate Settle ment Proce dures Act, unfair , deceptive, or abusive
acts or practices (UDAAP), Truth in Lending Act and Truth in
Savings Act, are enforce d by the CFPB. Other federal consumer
finance laws, such as the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, are
enforced by the OCC.
Privacy and Information Security
We are subject to many U.S. federal, state and international laws
and regulations governing requirements for maintaining policies
and procedures regarding the disclosure, use and protection of
the non-public confidential information of our customers and
employees. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires us to
periodically disclose Bank of America’ s privacy policies and
practices relating to sharing such information and enables retail
customers to opt out of our ability to share information with
unaffiliated third parties, under certain circumstances. The
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and other laws also require us to
implement a comprehe nsive information security program that
includes administrative, technical and physical safeguards to
provide the security and confidentiality of customer records and
information. Security and privacy policies and procedures for the
protection of personal and confidential information are in effect
across all businesses and geographic locations.
Other laws and regulations, at the international, federal and
state level, impact our ability to share certain information with
affiliates and non-af filiates for marketing and/o r non-marketing
purposes, or contact customers with marketing offers and
establish certain rights of consumers in connection with their
personal information. For example, California’ s Consumer
Privacy Act (CCP A), which went into effect in January 2020, as
modified by the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), provides
consumers with the right to know what personal data is being
collected, know whether their personal data is sold or disclosed
and to whom and opt out of the sale of their personal data,
Bank of America 6
among other rights. In addition, in the EU, the General Data
Protection Regulation (GDPR) replaced the Data Protection
Directive and related implementing national laws in its member
states. The CCPA's, CPRA's and GDPR’ s impact on the
Corporation was assessed and addre ssed through
comprehensive compliance implementation programs. These
existing and evolving legal requirements in the U.S. and abroad,
as well as court proceedings and changing guidance from
regulatory bodies with respect to the validity of cross-border data
transfer mechanisms from the EU, continue to lend uncertainty to
privacy compliance globally .
Item 1A. Risk Factors
The discussion below addresses the Corporation’ s material risk
factors of which we are aware. Any risk factor , either by itself or
together with other risk factors, could materially and adversely
affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows and/or
financial condition. The considerations and risks that follow are
organized within relevant headings but may be relevant to other
headings as well. Other factors not currently known to us or that
we currently deem immaterial could also adversely affect our
businesses, results of operations, cash flows and/or financial
condition. Therefore, the risk factors below should not be
considered all of the potential risks that we may face. For more
information on how we manage risks, see Managing Risk in the
MD&A  on page 46. For more information about the risks
contained in the Risk Factors section, see Item 1. Business on
page 2, MD&A  on page 26 and Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements on page 94.
Summary of Risk Factors
Coronavirus Disease
●    The impa cts of the pandemic have adversely affected, and
may continue to adversely affect us, and the pandemic’ s
duration and future impacts remain uncertain.
Market
●    Our business and results of operations may be adversely
affected by the financ ial markets, fiscal, monetary , and
regulatory policies, and economic conditions generally .
●    Increased market volatility and adverse chan ges in financial
or capital market conditions may increase our market risk.
●    We may incur losses if asset values decline, including due to
changes in interest rates and prepayment speeds.
Liquidity
●    If we are unable to access the capital markets or continue to
maintain deposits, or our borrowing costs increase, our
liquidity and competitive position will be negatively af fected.
●    Reduction in our credit ratings could significantly limit our
access to funding or the capital markets, increase borrowing
costs or trigger additional collateral or funding requirements.
●    Bank of America Corporation is a holding company , is
dependent on its subsidiaries for liquidity and may be
restricted from transferring funds from subsidiaries.
●    Our liquidity and financial condition, and the ability to pay
dividends to shareholders and to pay obligations could be
materially adversely af fected in the event of a resolution.
Credit
●    Economic or market  disruptions and insuf ficient credit loss
reserves may result in a higher provision for credit losses.
●    Our concentrations of credit risk could adversely affect our
credit losses, results of operations and financial condition.●    We may be adversely affected if the U.S. housing market
weakens or home prices decline.
●    Our derivatives businesses may expose us to unexpected
risks and potential losses.
Geopolitical
●    We are subject to numerous political, economic, market,
reputational, operationa l, compliance, legal, regulatory and
other risks in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Business Operations
●    A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or
infrastructure or business continuity plans, or those of third
parties or the financial services industry , could disrupt our
critical business operations and customer servi ces, result in
additional risk exposures, and adversely impact our results of
operations and financial condition, and cause legal or
reputational harm.
●    A cyberat tack, information or security breach,  or a technology
failure of ours or of a third party could adversely affect our
ability to conduct our business, manage our exposure to risk,
result in the disclosure and/or misuse of information and/or
fraudulent activity , and increase our operational and security
systems and critical infrastructure costs.
●    Failure to satisfy our obligations as servicer for residential
mortgage securitizations , loans owned by other entities and
other losses we could incur as servicer , could adversely
impact our reputation, servicing costs or results of operations.
●    Changes in the structure of and relations hip among the
government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs) could adversely
impact our business.
●    Our risk management framework may not be effective in
mitigating risk and reducing the potential for losses.
Regulatory, Compliance and Legal
●    We are subject to comprehensive government legislation and
regulations and certain settlements, orders and agreements
with government authorities from time to time.
●    We are subject to significant financial and reputational risks
from potential liability arising from lawsuits and regulatory and
government action.
●    U.S. federal banking agencies may require us to increase our
regulatory capital, total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC), long-
term debt or liquidity requirements.
●    Changes in accounting standards or assumptions in applying
accounting policies could adversely af fect us.
●    We may be adversely affected by changes in U.S. and non-
U.S. tax laws and regulations.
Reputation
●    Damag e to our reputation could harm our businesses,
including our competitive position and business prospects.
Other
●    Reforms  to and replacement of Interbank Offered Rates
(IBORs) and certain other rates or indices may adversely
affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results
of operations.
●    We face significant and increasing competition in the financial
services industry .
●    Our inability to adapt our business strategie s, products and
services could harm our business.
●    We could suffer opera tional, reputational and financial harm if
our models and strategies fail to properly anticipate and
7 Bank of America
manage risk.
●    Failure to properly manage data may result in our inability to
manage risk and business needs, errors in our day-to-day
operations, critical reporting and strategic decision-making,
inaccurate reporting and non-compliance with laws, rules and
regulations.
●    Our operations, businesses and custom ers could be
materially adversely affected by the impacts related to climate
change.
●    Our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical
to our success, business prospects and competitive position.
The above summary is qualified in its entirety to the more
detailed discussion of the Corporation’ s material risk factors set
forth below .
Coronavirus Disease
The impacts of the pandemic have adversely affected, and
may continue to adversely affect us, and the pandemic’ s
duration and future impacts remain uncertain.
Since the onset of the pandemic, the negative economic
conditions and disruptions arising from it have adversely
impacted our financial results to varying degrees and in various
respects, including as a result of periods of increased allowance
for credit losses followed by subsequent declines, and continued
elevated noninterest expense. The pandem ic’s impact on
economic conditions and activity remains uncertain and will
continue to evolve by region, country and state, and it is possible
that new or evolving variants of COVID-19 could result in
increased business disruptions and contribute to a potential
economic downturn. In recent months, the U.S. and other regions
of the world have experi enced supply chain disru ptions and labor
shortages, and the global economy and supply chains remain
vulnerable. Pandemic developments and certain responses have
also resulte d in inflationary pressure and ultimately may
contribute to the develop ment of a prolonged, disruptive period of
high inflation in the U.S. and globally .
The economic impact of the pandemic may continue to
adversely affect certain  of our businesses and our results of
operations, including decreased demand for and use of our
products and services; lower fees, including asset management
fees; lower sales and trading revenue due to decreased market
liquidity resulting from heightened volatility; higher levels of
uncollectible reversed charges in our merchant services
business; increased noninterest expense, including operational
losses; and increased credit losses due to a deterioration in the
financial condition of our consumer and comm ercial borrowers,
which could result in their inability to fulfill contractual obligations,
may vary by region, sector or industry and could be exacerbated
by the expiration of government assistance. Additionally , our
liquidity and/or regulatory capital could be adversely impacted by
customers’  withdrawal of deposits, inability to repay loans and
reduced usage of banking products, volatility and disruptions in
the capital and credit markets, changes in the value of securities,
derivatives and other financial instruments resulting in increased
margin requirements, volatility in foreign exchange rates and
customer draws on lines of credit. Adverse macroeconomic
conditions could also result in potential downgrades to our credit
ratings, negative impacts to regulatory capital and liquidity and
reinstated restrictions on dividends and/or common stock
repurchases.
We continue to execute business continuity plans in
connection with the pandemic. If we become unable to operateour businesses from remote locations including, for example,
because of an internal or external failure of our information
technology infrastructur e, we experience increased rates of
employee illness or unavailability , or governmental restrictions
are placed on our employees or operations, our business
continuity plans could be adversely affected and result in
disruption to our businesses. Additionally , we continue to rely on
third parties who could experience business interruptions as a
result of the pandemic, which could increase  our risks and
adversely impact our businesses.
In connectio n with the pandemic, various governmental fiscal
and monetary relief programs were implemented in an effort to
stimulate the global economy and avert negative economic or
market conditions. Our participation in such programs could
result in reputational harm and government actions and
proceedings, and has resulted in, and may continue to result in,
litigation, including class actions. Such actions may result in
judgments, orders, settlements, penalties, and fines. Our
participation in such programs has also resulted and will continue
to result in losses, including from the Paycheck Protection
Program (PPP) and the processing of unemployment benefits for
California and certain other states.
We continue to closely monitor the pandemic and related
risks as they evolve globally and in the U.S. The magnitude and
duration of the pandemi c and its future direct and indirect effects
on global health, the global economy and our businesses, results
of operations and financial condition are uncertain and depend
on future developments that cannot be predicted, including the
likelihood of future surge s of COVID-19 cases and the spread of
more easily communicable and/or dangerous variants of COVID-
19, the availability , usage and acceptance of effective medical
treatments and vaccines (including additional doses of vaccines)
in the U.S. and globally and future public  response and
government actions, including travel bans and restrictions,
limitations on business activity , vaccine mandate s and additional
stimulus legislation. The pandemic may cause setbacks to the
global or national econo mic recovery or longer lasting effects on
economic conditions than are currently anticipa ted, changes in
financial markets, changes in fiscal, monetary and tax regulatory
environments, and changes in client preferences and behavior ,
which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses,
results of operations and financial condition.
Market
Our business and results of operations may be adversely
affected by the financial markets, fiscal, monetary , and
regulatory policies, and economic conditions generally .
General economic, political, social and health conditions in
the U.S. and in one or more countries abroad affect markets in
the U.S. and abroad and our business. In particular , markets in
the U.S. or abroad may be affected by the level and volatility of
interest rates, availability and market conditions of financing,
unexpected changes in gross domestic product (GDP), economic
growth or its sustainability , inflation, supply chain disruptions,
consumer spending, employment levels, labor shortages, wage
stagnation, federal government shutdowns, deve lopments related
to the U.S. federal debt ceiling, energy prices, home prices,
commercial property values, bankruptcies, a default by a
significant market participant or class of counterparties,
fluctuations or other significant changes in both debt and equity
capital markets and currencies, liquidity of the global financial
markets, the growth of global trade and commerce, trade
policies, the availability and cost of capital and credit, disruption
of communication, transportation or energy infrastructure and
Bank of America 8
investor sentiment and confidence. Additionally , global markets,
including energy and commodity markets, may be adversely
affected by the current or anticipated impact of climate change,
extreme weather events or natural disasters, the emergence or
continuation of widespread health emergencie s or pandemics,
cyberattacks or campaigns, military conflict, including escalating
military tension between Russia and Ukraine, terrorism or other
geopolitical events. Market fluctuations may impact our margin
requirements and affect our business liquidity . Also, any sudden
or prolonged  market downturn in the U.S. or abroad, as a result
of the above  factors or otherwise, could result in a decline in net
interest income and noninterest income and adversely affect our
results of operations and financial condition, including capital and
liquidity levels. For example, global developmen ts in connection
with the ongoing pandemic, including supply chain disruptions,
high inflation, changes to industries such as commercial real
estate, the emergence of new variants and significant restrictions
on households and businesses in certain countries, have
adversely impacted and may continue to adversely impact
financial markets and macroeconomic conditions  and could result
in additional market volatility and disruptions globally .
Actions taken by the Federal Reserve, including changes in
its target funds rate, balance sheet management, and lending
facilities, and other central banks are beyond our control and
difficult to predict. These actions can affect interest rates and the
value of financial instruments and other assets and liabilities and
can impact our borrowers. Sudden changes in monetary policy ,
for example in response  to high inflation, could lead to financial
market volatility , increases in market interest rates, and a
flattening or inversion of the yield curve. The continued
protracted period of lower interest rates has resulted in lower
revenue through lower net interest income, which has adversely
affected our results of operations. Continued low U.S. interest
rates, potentially resulting from a further extended period of
accommodative monetary policy and/or an economic downturn
could have a further adverse impact on us, including our net
interest income and results of operations.
Changes to existing U.S. laws and regulatory policies and
evolving priorities, including those related to financial regulation,
taxation, international trade, fiscal policy , climate change
(including required reduction of greenhouse gas emissions) and
healthcare, may adversely impact U.S. or global economic
activity and our customers', our counterparties' and our earnings
and operatio ns. For example, the expiration of pandemic-related
government assistance in the U.S. could result in a reduction in
economic activity and lead to a deterioration in households’
finances, particularly if consumers also continue to face high
inflation. A slowdown in consumer demand could limit the ability
of firms to pass on fast-rising costs for labor and other inputs,
weighing on earnings and potentially leading to an equity market
downturn. Significant fiscal policy changes and/or initiatives may
also raise the federal debt, affect businesses and household
after-tax incomes and increase uncertainty surrounding the
formulation and direction  of U.S. monetary policy and volatility of
interest rates. A rise in U.S. interest rates could increase the
likelihood of a more volatile and appreciating U.S. dollar .
Changes, or proposed changes, to certain U.S. trade and
international investment policies, particularly with important
trading partn ers (includ ing China and the EU) have in recent
years negatively impacted financial markets. An escalation of
tensions could lead to further measures that adversely affect
financial markets, disrupt world trade and commerce and lead to
trade retaliation, including through the use of tariffs, foreign
exchange measuresor the large-scale sale of U.S. Treasury Bonds. Actions taken by
other countries, particularly China, to restrict the activities of
businesses, could also negatively af fect financial markets.
Any of these developments could adversel y affect our
consumer and commercial businesses, our customers, our
securities and derivatives portfolios, including the risk of lower re-
investment rates within those portfolios, our level of charge-of fs
and provisio n for credit losses, the carrying value of our deferred
tax assets, our capital levels, our liquidity and our results of
operations. Additionally , the transition from IBORs and other
benchmark rates to alternative reference rates (ARRs) could
negatively impact markets globally and our business, and/or
magnify any negative impact of the above referenced factors on
our business, customers and results of operations.
Increased market volatility and adverse chan ges in financial
or capital market conditions may increase our market risk.
Our liquidity , competitive position, business , results of
operations and financial condition are affected by market risks
such as changes in interest and currency exchange rates,
fluctuations (significant or otherwise) in equity and futures prices,
lower trading volumes and prices of securitized products, the
implied volatility of interest rates and credit spreads and other
economic and business factors. These market risks may
adversely affect, among other things, the value of our securities,
trading assets and other financial instruments, the cost of debt
capital and our access  to credit markets, the value of assets
under management (AUM), fee income relating to AUM,
customer allocation of capital among investment alternatives, the
volume of client activity in our trading operations, investment
banking fees, the general profitability and risk level of the
transactions in which we engage and our competitiveness with
respect to deposit pricin g. For example, the value of certain of
our assets is sensitive to changes in market interest rates. If the
Federal Reserve or a non-U.S. central bank changes or signals a
change in monetary policy , market interest rates or credit spreads
could be affected, which could adversely impact the value of
such assets. Changes to fiscal policy , including expansion of U.S.
federal deficit spending and resultant debt issuance, could also
affect market interest rates. In addition, although some interest
rates have begun to rise and elevated inflation could lead to
further increases, the continued low interest rate environment
has had and could continue to have a negative impact on our
results of operations, including on future revenue and earnings
growth. A flattening or inversion of the yield curve could also
negatively impact our results of operations, including revenue
and earnings.
We use various models and strategies to assess and control
our market risk exposures, but those are subject to inherent
limitations. In times of market stress or other unforeseen
circumstances, previously uncorrelated indicato rs may become
correlated and vice versa. These types of market movements
may limit the effectivene ss of our hedging strategies and cause
us to incur significant losses. These changes in correlation can
be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk or
trading models with assu mptions or algorithms similar to ours. In
these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk
positions due to activity of other market participants or
widespread market dislocations, including circu mstances where
asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for
certain assets. To the extent that we own securities that do not
have an established liquid trading market or are otherwise
subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to
reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated
with such positions.
9 Bank of America
We may incur losses if asset values decline, including due
to changes in interest rates and prepayment speeds.
We have a large portfolio of financial instruments, including
loans and loan commitments, securities financing agreements,
asset-backed secured financings, derivative asse ts and liabilities,
debt securities, marketable equity securities and certain other
assets and liabilities that we measure at fair value that are
subject to valuation and impairment assessment s. We determine
these values  based on applicable accounting guidance, which,
for financial instruments measured at fair value, requires an entity
to base fair value on exit price and to maximize the use of
observable inputs and minimize the use of unobs ervable inputs in
fair value measurements. The fair values of these financial
instruments include adjustments for market liquid ity, credit quality ,
funding impact on certain derivatives and other transaction-
specific factors, where appropriate.
Gains or losses on these instruments can have a direct
impact on our results of operations, unless we have effectively
hedged our exposures. Increases in interest rates may result in a
decrease in residential mortgage loan origina tions and could
impact the origination of corporate debt. In addition, increases in
interest rates or changes in spreads may adversely impact the
fair value of debt securi ties and, accordingly , for debt securities
classified as available for sale, may adversely affect accumulated
other comprehensive income and, thus, capital levels. These
market moves also may adversely impact the value of debt
securities we hold to meet regulatory liquidity requirements.
Decreases in interest rates may increase prepayment speeds of
certain assets, and, therefore, may adversely affect net interest
income.
Fair values may be impacted by declining values of the
underlying assets or the prices at which observable market
transactions occur and the continued availability of these
transactions or indices. The financial strength of counterparties,
with whom we have economically hedged some of our exposure
to these assets, also will affect the fair value of these assets.
Sudden declines and volatility in the prices of assets may curtail
or eliminate trading activities in these assets, which may make it
difficult to sell, hedge or value these assets. The inability to sell or
effectively hedge assets reduces our ability to limit losses in such
positions, and the difficulty in valuing assets may increase our
risk-weighted assets (RWA), which requires us to maintain
additional capital and increases our funding costs. Values of AUM
also impact revenues in our wealth management and related
advisory businesses for asset-based management and
performance fees. Declines in values of AUM can result in lower
fees earned for managing such assets.
Liquidity
If we are unable to access the capital markets or continue to
maintain deposits, or our borrowing costs  increase, our
liquidity and competitive position will be negatively affected.
Liquidity is essential to our businesses. We fund our assets
primarily with globally sourced deposits in our bank entities, as
well as secured and unsecured liabilities transacted in the capital
markets. We rely on certain secured funding sources, such as
repo markets, which are typically short-term and credit-sensitive.
We also engage in asset securitization transactions, including
with the GSEs, to fund consumer lending activi ties. Our liquidity
could be adversely affected by any inability to access the capital
markets, illiquidity or volatility in the capital markets, the decrease
in value of eligible collateral or increased collateral requirements
(including as a result of credit concerns for short-term borrowing),
changes to our relations hips with our funding providers based on
real or perceived changes in our riskprofile, prolo nged federa l government shutdowns, or changes in
regulations, guidance or GSE status that impact our funding
avenues or ability to access certain funding sources. Additionally ,
our liquidity may be negatively impacted by the unwillingness or
inability of the Federal Reserve to act as lender of last resort,
unexpected simultaneo us draws on lines of credit, slower
customer payment rates, restricted access to the assets of prime
brokerage clients, the withdrawal of or failure to attract customer
deposits or invested funds (which could result from customer
attrition for higher yields, the desire for more conservative
alternatives, changes in customer behavior or our customers’
increased need for cash), increased regulatory  liquidity , capital
and margin requirements for our U.S. or international banks and
their nonbank subsidiaries, which could result in the inability to
transfer liquidity internally and inefficient funding, changes in
patterns of intraday liquidity usage resulting from a counterparty
or technology failure or other idiosyncratic event or failure or
default by a significant market participant or third party (including
clearing agents, custodians, central banks or central
counterparties (CCPs)). These factors also have the potential to
increase our borrowing costs and negatively impact our liquidity .
Several of these factors may arise due to circumstances
beyond our control, such as general market volatility , disruption,
shock or stress, the emergence or continuation of widespread
health emergencies or pandemics, Federal Reserve policy
decisions (including fluctuations in interest rates or Federal
Reserve balance sheet composition), negative views or loss of
confidence about the Corporation (including short- and long-term
business prospects) or the financial services industry generally or
due to a specific news event, changes in the regulatory
environment or governmental fiscal or monetary  policies, actions
by credit rating agencie s or an operational problem that affects
third parties or us. The impact of these events, whether within our
control or not, could include an inability to sell assets or redeem
investments, unforeseen outflows of cash, the need to draw on
liquidity facilities, the reduction of financing balances and the loss
of equity secured funding, debt repurchases to support the
secondary market or meet client requests, the need for additional
funding for commitments and contingencies and unexpected
collateral calls, among other things, the result of which could be
increased costs, a liquid ity shortfall and/or impact on our liquidity
coverage ratio.
Our liquidity and cost of obtaining funding is directly related to
prevailing market conditions, including changes in interest and
currency exchange rates, significant fluctuations in equity and
futures prices, lower trading volumes and prices of securitized
products and our credit spreads. Credit spreads reflect the
published credit ratings, or other assessments of credit risk and
relative value by market participants, of the Corporation and
represent the risk premiu ms that our funding providers demand in
excess of a benchmark interest rate, for examp le, U.S. Treasury
securities rates. Increases in interest rates and our credit spreads
can increase  the cost of our funding and result in mark-to-market
or credit valuation adjustment exposures. Changes in our credit
spreads are market-driven and may be influenced by market
perceptions of our creditworthiness, including changes in our
credit ratings. Changes to interest rates and our credit spreads
occur continuously and may be unpredictable and highly volatile.
We may also experien ce spread compression as a result of
offering higher than expected deposit rates in order to attract and
maintain deposits due to increased marketplace rate competition.
Additionally , concentrations within our funding
Bank of America 10
profile, such as maturi ties, currencies or counterparties, can
reduce our funding ef ficiency .
Reduction in our credit ratings could significantly limit our
access to funding or the capital markets, increase borrowing
costs or trigger additional collateral or funding
requirements.
Our borrowi ng costs and ability to raise funds are directly
impacted by our credit ratings. In addition, credit ratings may be
important to customers or counterparties when we compete in
certain markets and seek to engage in certain transactions,
including OTC derivatives. Credit ratings and outlooks are
opinions expressed by rating agencies on our creditworthiness
and that of our obligations or securities, including long-term debt,
short-term borrowings, preferred stock and asse t securitizations.
Our credit ratings are subject to ongoing review by rating
agencies, which consider a number of factors, including our
financial strength, perfo rmance, prospects and operations and
factors not under our control, such as the macroeconomic and
geopolitical environment, including any continued
macroeconomic stress caused by the pandemic, or changes the
rating agenc ies may make to the methodolog ies they use to
determine our ratings.
Rating agencies could make adjustments to our credit ratings
at any time, and there can be no assurance as to whether or
when any downgrades could occur . A reduction  in certain of our
credit ratings could result in a wider credit spread and negatively
affect our liquidity , acce ss to credit markets, the related cost of
funds, our businesses and certain trading revenues, particularly
in those businesses where counterparty creditworthiness is
critical. If the short-term  credit ratings of our parent company , or
bank or broker-dealer subsidiaries, were downgraded by one or
more levels, we may experience loss of access to short-term
funding sources such as repo financing, and/or incur increased
cost of funds and increased collateral requirements. Under the
terms of certain OTC derivative contracts and other trading
agreements, if our or our subsidiaries’  credit ratings are
downgraded, the counterparties may require additional collateral
or terminate these contracts or agreements.
While certain potential impacts are contractual and
quantifiable, the full consequences of a credit rating downgrade
to a financial institution are inherently uncertain, as they depend
upon numerous dynamic, complex and inter-related factors and
assumptions, including whether any downgrade of a firm’s long-
term credit ratings precipitates downgrades to its short-term
credit ratings, and assumptions about the potential behaviors of
various customers, investors and counterparties.
Bank of America Corporation is a holding company , is
dependent on its subsidiaries for liquidity and may be
restricted from transferring funds from subsidiaries.
Bank of America Corporation, as the parent company , is a
separate and distinct legal entity from our bank and nonbank
subsidiaries. We evaluate and manage liquidity on a legal entity
basis. Legal entity liquid ity is an important consideration as there
are legal, regulatory , contractual and other limitations on our
ability to utilize liquidity from one legal entity to satisfy the liquidity
requirements of another , including the parent company , which
could result in adverse liquidity events. The parent company
depends on dividends, distributions, loans and other payments
from our bank and nonbank subsidiaries to fund dividend
payments on our commo n stock and preferred stock and to fund
all payments on our other obligations, including debt obligations.
Any inability  of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make
payments to us may adversely affect our cash flow and financial
condition.Many of our subsidiaries, including our bank and broker-
dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend
payments, or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the
flow of funds from those  subsidiaries to the parent company or
other subsidiaries. Our bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries are
subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or transact with
affiliates, minimum regulatory capital and liquidity requirements
and restrictions on their ability to use funds deposited with them
in bank or brokerage accounts to fund their businesses.
Intercompany arrangements we entered into in connection with
our resolution planning submissions could restrict the amount of
funding available to the parent company from our subsidiaries
under certain adverse conditions.
Additional restrictions on related party transactions, increased
capital and liquidity requirements and additional limitations on the
use of funds on deposit in bank or brokerage accounts, as well
as lower earnings, can reduce the amount of funds available to
meet the obligations of the parent company and even require the
parent company to provide additional funding to such
subsidiaries. Also, regulatory action that requires additional
liquidity at each of our subsidiaries could impede access to funds
we need to pay our obligations or pay dividends. In addition, our
right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’ s
liquidation or reorganization is subject to prior claims of the
subsidiary’ s creditors.
Our liquidity and financial condition, and the ability to pay
dividends to shareholders and to pay obligations could be
materially adversely affected in the event of a resolution.
Bank of America Corporation, our parent holding company , is
required to periodically submit a plan to the FDIC and Federal
Reserve describing its resolution strategy under the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code in the event of material financial distress or
failure. In the current plan, Bank of America Corporation’ s
preferred resolution strategy is a “single point of entry” strategy .
This strategy provides that only the parent holding company
would file for bankruptcy under the U.S. Bankr uptcy Code and
contemplates providing certain key operating subsidiaries with
sufficient capital and liquidity to operate through severe stress
and to enable such subsidiaries to continue operating or be
wound down in a solvent manner following a bankruptcy of the
parent holding company . Bank of America Corporation has
entered into intercompany arrangements resulting in the
contribution of most of its capital and liquidity to key subsidiaries.
Pursuant to these arrangements, if Bank of America
Corporation’ s liquidity resources deteriorate so severely that
resolution becomes imminent, Bank of America Corporation will
no longer be able to draw liquidity from its key subsidiaries, and
will be required to contribute its remaining financial assets to a
wholly-owned holding company subsidiary , which  could materially
and adverse ly affect our liquidity and financial condition and the
ability to return capital to shareholders, including through the
payment of dividends and repurchase of the Corporation’ s
common stock, and meet our payment obligations.
If the FDIC and Federal Reserve jointly determine that Bank of
America Corporation’ s resolution plan is not credible, they could
impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements
or restrictions on our growth, activities or opera tions. We could
also be required to take certain actions that could impose
operating costs and could potentially result in the divestiture of
certain assets or restructuring of businesses and subsidiaries.
Additionally , under the Financial Reform Act, when a G-SIB
such as Bank of Americ a Corporation is in default or danger of
default, the FDIC may be appointed receiver in order to conduct
11 Bank of America
an orderly liquidation of such institution. In the event of such
appointment, the FDIC could, among other things, invoke the
orderly liquidation authority , instead of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code,
if the Secret ary of the Treasury makes certain financial distress
and systemic risk determinations. In 2013, the FDIC issued a
notice descr ibing its preferred “single point of entry” strategy for
resolving a G-SIB. Unde r this approach, the FDIC could replace
Bank of America Corporation with a bridge holding company ,
which could continue operations and result in an orderly
resolution of the underly ing bank, but whose equity would be held
solely for the benefit of our creditors. The FDIC’ s “single point of
entry” strategy may result in our security holders suffering greater
losses than would have been the case under a bankruptcy
proceeding or a dif ferent resolution strategy .
To the extent that the Corporation is resolved under the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code or the FDIC’ s orderly liquidation authority , third-
party credito rs of the Corporation’ s subsidiar ies may receive
significant or full recoveries on their claims while security holders
of Bank of America Corp oration could face signif icant or complete
losses.
Credit
Economic or market disruptions and insufficient credit loss
reserves may result in a higher provision for credit losses.
A number of our products expose us to credit risk, including
loans, letters of credit, derivatives, debt securities, trading
account assets and assets held-for-sale. Deterioration in the
financial condition of our consumer and comm ercial borrowers,
counterparties or underlying collateral could adversely affect our
financial condition and results of operations.
Our credit portfolios may be impacted by global and U.S.
macroeconomic and market conditions, events and disruptions,
including declines in GDP, consumer spending or property
values, asset price corrections, increasing consumer and
corporate leverage, increases in corporate bond spreads, rising
or elevated unemploym ent levels, rising or elevated inflation,
fluctuations in foreign exchange or interest rates, as well as
widespread health emergencies or pandemics, extreme weather
events and the impacts of climate change and domestic and
global efforts to transition to a low-carbon economy . Significant
economic or market stresses and disruptions typically have a
negative impact on the business environment and financial
markets, which could impact the underlying credit quality of our
borrowers, counterparties and assets. Property value declines or
asset price corrections could increase the risk of borrowers or
counterparties defaulting or becoming delinquent in their
obligations to us, and could decrease the value  of the collateral
we hold, which could increase credit losses. Credit risk could also
be magnified by lending to leveraged borrowers or declining
asset prices, including property or collateral values, unrelated to
macroeconomic stress. Simultaneous drawdowns on lines of
credit and/or  an increase in a borrower ’s leverag e in a weakening
economic environment could result in deterioration in our credit
portfolio, should borrowers be unable to fulfill competing financial
obligations. Increased delinquency and default rates could
adversely affect our credit portfolios, including consumer credit
card, home equity and residential mortgage portfolios through
increased charge-of fs and provisions for credit losses.
Although macroeconom ic conditions have improved during
2021 in comparison to 2020, the pandemic and the related
impacts of inflationary conditions, high input costs and supply
chain disrup tions, unem ployment or labor shortages and the
expiration of pandemic-related government  benefits and
programs could negatively impact the ability of consumer andcommercial borrowers or counterparties to meet their financial
obligations. Additionally , the pandemic continues to impact the
economy and certain sectors remain at risk (e.g., travel and
entertainment, as well as commercial real estate office
exposure). To the extent the pandemic worsens, as a result of
new variants or otherwise, resulting in restrictions on economic
activity or other negative impacts on the macroeconomic
environment, our credit portfolio and allowance for credit losses
could be adversely impacted.
We establish an allowance for credit losses, which includes
the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for
unfunded lending comm itments, based on management's best
estimate of lifetime expected credit losses inherent in our
relevant financial assets. The process to determine the allowance
for credit losses uses models and assumptions that require us to
make difficult and complex judgments that are often interrelated.
This includes forecasting how borrowers or counterparties will
perform in changing and unprecedented economic conditions,
such as predicting devel opments in public health and fiscal policy
related to the pandem ic. The ability of our borrowers or
counterparties to repay their obligations will likely be impacted by
changes in future economic conditions, which in turn could
impact the accuracy of our loss forecasts and allowance
estimates. There is also the possibility that we have failed or will
fail to accurately identify the appropriate economic indicators or
accurately estimate their impacts to our borrowers or
counterparties, which similarly could impact the accuracy of our
loss forecasts and allowance estimates.
If the models , estimates and assumptions we use to establish
reserves or the judgme nts we make in extending credit to our
borrowers or counterparties, which are more sensitive due to the
current macroeconomic environment, including as a result of the
uncertainty regarding the magnitude and duration of the
pandemic, prove inaccurate in predicting future events, we may
suffer unexpected losses. In addition, changes to external factors
can negativ ely impact our recognition of credit losses in our
portfolios and allowance for credit losses.
The allowance for credit losses is our best estimate of
expected credit losses; however , there is no guarantee that it will
be sufficient to address credit losses, particularly if the economic
outlook deteriorates significantly and quickly . In such an event,
we may increase our allowance which would reduce our
earnings. Additionally , to the extent that economic conditions
worsen as a result of COVID-19 or otherwise , impacting our
consumer and commercial borrowers, counterparties or
underlying collateral, and credit losses are worse than expected,
we may increase our provision for credit losses, which could
have an adverse effect on our results of operations and could
negatively impact our financial condition.
Our concentrations  of credit risk could adversely affect our
credit losses, results of operations and financial condition.
In the ordinary course of our business, we may be subject to
concentrations of credit risk because of a common characteristic
or common sensitivity to economic, financial, public health or
business developments. For example, concentrations of credit
risk may reside in a particular industry , geography , product, asset
class, coun terparty or within any pool of exposures with a
common risk characteristic. A deterioration in the financial
condition or prospects of a particular industry , geographic
location, product or asset class, or a failure or downgrade of, or
default by, any particu lar entity or group of entities could
negatively affect our businesses, and it is possible our limits and
credit monitoring exposure controls will not function as
anticipated.
Bank of America 12
While our activities expose us to many different industries and
counterparties, we routinely execute a high volume of
transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry ,
predominantly comprise d of broker-dealers, commercial banks,
investment banks, insur ers, mutual funds, hedge funds, central
clearing counterparties and other institutional clients, resulting in
significant credit concentration with respect to these industries.
Financial services institutions and other counterparties are inter-
related because of trading, funding, clearing or other
relationships. As a result, defaults by one or more counterparties,
or market uncertainty about the financial stabilit y of one or more
financial services institu tions, or the financial services industry
generally , could lead to market-wide liquidity disruptions, losses
and defaults.
Many of these transacti ons expose us to credit risk and, in
some cases, disputes and litigation in the event of default of a
counterparty . In addition, our credit risk may be heightened by
market risk when the collateral held by us cannot be liquidated or
is liquidated  at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of
the loan or derivatives exposure due to us, which may occur as a
result of events that impact the value of the collateral, such as an
asset price correction or fraud. Further , disputes with obligors as
to the valuation of collat eral could increase in times of significant
market stres s, volatility or illiquidity , and we could suffer losses
during such periods if we are unable to realize the fair value of
the collateral or manage declines in the value of collateral.
Our commercial portfolios include exposure s to certain
industries, including asset managers and funds, real estate,
finance companies and capital goods. Econom ic weaknesses,
sustained elevated inflation, adverse business conditions, market
disruptions, rising interest or capitalization rates, the collapse of
speculative bubbles, greater volatility in areas where we have
concentrated credit risk or deterioration in real estate values or
household incomes may cause us to experience a decrease in
cash flow and higher credit losses in either our consumer or
commercial portfolios or cause us to write down the value of
certain assets. Additionally , we could experienc e continued and
long-term negative impacts to our commercial credit exposure
and an increase in credit losses within those industries that
continue to be disproportionately impacted by COVID-19 or are
permanently impacted by a change in consu mer preferences
resulting from COVID-19 (e.g., travel and entertainment, as well
as commercial real estate office exposure) or other industry
disruptions.
Furthermore, we have concentrations of credit risk with
respect to our consume r real estate, auto, consumer credit card
and commercial real estate portfolios, which represent a
significant percentage of our overall credit portfolio. The U.S. has
experienced a meaningful increase in property prices over the
past year and a decreas e in home price valuations or commercial
real estate valuations in certain markets where we have large
concentrations, as well as more broadly within the U.S. or
globally , could result in increased servicing expenses, defaults,
delinquencies or credit losses. In particular , the impact of climate
change, such as rising average global temperatures and rising
sea levels, and the increasing frequency and severity of extreme
weather events and natural disasters such as droughts, floods,
wildfires and hurricanes  could negatively impact collateral, the
valuations of home prices or commercial real estate or our
customers’  ability and/or willingness to pay fees, outstanding
loans or afford new products. This could also cause insurability
risk and/or increased insurance costs to customers.We also enter into transactions with sovereign nations, U.S.
states and municipalities. Unfavorable economic or political
conditions, disruptions to capital markets, curre ncy fluctuations,
changes in oil prices, social instability and changes in
government or monetary policies could adver sely impact the
operating budgets or credit ratings of these government entities
and expose us to credit and liquidity risk.
Liquidity disruptions in the financial markets may result in our
inability to sell, syndica te or realize the value of our positions,
leading to increased concentrations, which could increase the
credit and market risk associated with our positions, as well as
increase our R WA.
We may be adversely affected if the U.S. housing market
weakens or home prices decline.
Although the U.S. has experienced a meaningful increase in
home prices in 2021, we remain conscious of geographic
markets where housing price growth has increased significantly
that could be vulnerable  to declines in future periods and may
negatively impact the demand and underlying collateral for many
of our products. Additionally , our mortgage loan production
volume is generally influenced by the rate of growth in residential
mortgage debt outstanding and the size of the residential
mortgage market, both of which may be adversely affected by
rising intere st rates. Any downturn in the cond ition of the U.S.
housing market, similar to the 2008 financial crisis or otherwise,
could result in both significant write-downs of asset values in
several asset classes, notably mortgage-backed securities, and
exposure to monolines. If the U.S. housing market were to
weaken, the value of real estate could decline, which could result
in increased credit losses and delinquent servicing expenses,
negatively affect our representations and warranties exposures,
and adversely affect our financial condition and results of
operations.
Our derivat ives busine sses may expose us to unexpected
risks and potential losses.
We are party to a large  number of derivatives transactions
that may expose us to unexpected market, credi t and operational
risks that could cause us to suffer unexpected losses. Severe
declines in asset values, unanticipated credit events or
unforeseen circumstances that may cause previously
uncorrelated factors to become correlated and vice versa, may
create losses resulting from risks not appropriately taken into
account or anticipated in the development, structuring or pricing
of a derivative instrument. Certain OTC derivative contracts and
other trading agreements provide that upon the occurrence of
certain specified events, such as a change in the credit rating of
the Corpora tion or one or more of its affiliates, we may be
required to provide additional collateral or take other remedial
actions and could experience increased difficulty obtaining
funding or hedging risks. In some cases our counterparties may
have the right to terminate or otherwise diminish our rights under
these contracts or agreements.
We are also a member of various central counterparties
(CCPs), in part due to regulatory requirements for mandatory
clearing of derivative transactions, which potentially increases
our credit risk exposures  to CCPs. In the event that one or more
members of the CCP  defaults on its obligatio ns, we may be
required to pay a portion  of any losses incurred by the CCP  as a
result of that default. A CCP  may modify , in its discretion, the
margin we are required  to post, which could mean unexpected
and increase d exposure to the CCP. As a clearing member , we
are exposed  to the risk of non-performance by our clients for
which we clear transactions, which may not be covered by
13 Bank of America
available collateral. Additionally , default by a significant market
participant may result in further risk and potential losses.
Geopolitical
We are subject to numerous political, economic, market,
reputational, operational, compliance, legal,  regulatory and
other risks in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
We do business throughout the world, including in emerging
markets. Economic or geopolitical stress in one or more countries
could have a negative impact regionally or globally, resulting in,
among other things, market volatility , reduced market value and
economic output. Our liquidity and credit risk could be adversely
impacted by and our businesses and revenues derived from non-
U.S. jurisdictions are subject to risk of loss from financial, social
or judicial instability , changes in government leadership, including
as a result  of electoral outcomes or otherw ise, changes in
governmental policies or policies of central banks, expropriation,
nationalization and/or confiscation of assets, price controls, high
inflation, natural disasters, the emergence or continuation of
widespread health emergencies or pandemics, capital controls,
currency re-denominatio n risk from a country exiting the EU or
otherwise, currency fluctuations, foreign exchange controls or
movements (caused by devaluation or de-pegging), unfavorable
political and diplomatic developments, oil price  fluctuations and
changes in legislation. These risks are especially elevated in
emerging markets. Additionally , continued tensions between the
U.S. and important trading partners, particula rly China, may
result in sanctions, further tariff increases or other restrictive
actions on cross-border trade, investment, and transfer of
information technology that weigh on trade volumes, raise costs
for produce rs, and adversely affect our businesses and
revenues, as well as our customers and counterparties.
A number of non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we do business
have been or may be negatively impacted by slowing growth or
recessionary conditions, market volatility and/or political or civil
unrest. The ongoing pandemic had a severe negative impact on
global GDP, and despite significant progress in 2021, it appears
that the global economy faces an uncertain and uneven recovery
ahead. While the U.S. and numerous other countries have
recovered to pre-pandemic levels of output, many countries and
areas within countries are recovering more slowly . Economic
weakness may prove persistent in many countries and regions,
including certain regions of Europe, Japan and numerous
emerging markets. Moreover , economic activity remains
vulnerable to ongoing public health uncertainties with respect to
the pandemic, and a number of countries are still imposing
significant restrictions on residents and businesses. Global
supply chain  disruptions , labor shortages, wage pressures and
elevated inflation in many countries pose further challenges,
especially in the form of volatility in financial markets.
Additionally , foreign exchange rates against the U.S. dollar are at
risk of significant depreciation as the Federal Reserve raises
interest rates.
We also invest or trade in the securities of corporations and
governments located in non-U.S. jurisdic tions, including
emerging markets. Revenues from the trading of non-U.S.
securities may be subje ct to negative fluctuations as a result of
the above factors. Furthermore, the impact of these fluctuations
could be magnified because non-U.S. trading markets,
particularly in emerging markets, are generally smaller , less liquid
and more volatile than U.S. trading markets. Risks in one nation
can limit our opportunities for portfolio growth and negatively
affect our operations in other nations, including our U.S.
operations. Market and economic disruptions of all typesmay affect consumer confidence levels and spending, corporate
investment and job creation, bankruptcy rates, levels of
incurrence and default on consumer and corporate debt,
economic growth rates and asset values, among other factors.
Any such unfavorable conditions or developments could
adversely impact us.
As a result of the pande mic and fiscal policy responses to it,
including the increased purchase of government bonds and other
financial assets by central banks, government debt levels have
increased significantly raising the risk of volatility , significant
valuation changes, political tensions among EU members
regarding fiscal policy or defaults on or devaluation of sovereign
debt, which could expose us to substantial losses.
Our non-U.S. businesses are also subject to extensive
regulation by governmen ts, securities exchanges and regulators,
central banks and other regulatory bodies. In many countries, the
laws and regulations applicable to the financial services and
securities industries are uncertain and evolving , and it may be
difficult for us to determin e the exact requirements of local laws in
every market or manage our relationships with multiple regulators
in various jurisdictions. Our potential inability to remain in
compliance with local laws in a particular market and manage our
relationships with regulators could result in increased expenses
and changes to our organizational structure and adversely affect
our business es and results of operations in that market, as well
as our reputation in general.
In connection with the U.K.’ s exit from the EU, we are now
subject to different laws and regulations, which are expected to
diverge further over time, and are subject to the oversight of
additional regulatory authorities. As political and regulatory
environments evolve, further changes to the legal and regulatory
framework under which our subsidiaries provide products and
services in the U.K. and in the EU may result in additional
compliance costs and have negative tax consequences or an
adverse impact on our results of operations.
In addition to non-U.S. legislation, our international operations
are also subject to U.S. legal requirements, which subjects us to
operational and compliance costs and risks. For example, our
operations are subject to U.S. and non-U.S. laws and regulations
relating to bribery and corruption, anti-money laundering, and
economic sanctions, which can vary by jurisdiction. The
increasing speed and novel ways in which funds circulate could
make it more challengin g to track the movement of funds and
heighten financial crimes risk. Our ability to comply with these
legal requirements depends on our ability to continually improve
surveillance, detection and reporting and analytic capabilities.
In the U.S., debt ceiling  and budget deficit concerns, which
have increas ed the possibility of U.S. government defaults on its
debt and/or downgrades to its credit ratings, and prolonged
government shutdowns could weaken the U.S. dollar , cause
market volatility , negatively impact the globa l economy and
banking system and adversely affect our financial condition,
including our liquidity . Additionally , changes in fiscal, monetary or
regulatory policy, including as a result of labor shortages, wage
pressures, supply chain disruptions and higher inflation, could
increase our compliance costs and adversely affect our business
operations, organization al structure and results of operations. We
are also subject to geopolitical risks, including economic
sanctions, acts or threats of international or domestic terrorism,
actions taken by the U.S. or other governme nts in response
thereto, state-sponsored cyberattacks or campaigns, civil unrest
and/or milita ry conflicts,  which could adversely affect business
and economic conditions abroad and in the U.S. For example,
escalating military tensions between Russia and Ukraine could
result in regional instability and adversely impact
Bank of America 14
commodity and other financial markets as well as economic
conditions, especially in Europe. Additionally , this could magnify
inflationary pressure resulting from the pandemic and extend any
prolonged period of higher inflation.
Business Operations
A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems
or infrastructure or business continuity plans, or those of
third parties or the financial services industry , could disrupt
our critical business operations and customer services,
result in additional risk exposures, and adversely impact our
results of operations and financial condition, and cause
legal or reputational harm.
The potential for operational risk exposure exists throughout
our organiza tion and as a result of our interactions with, and
reliance on, third parties (including their downstream service
providers) and the financial services industry infrastructure. Our
operational and security systems infrastructur e, including our
computer systems, emerging technologies, data management
and internal processes, as well as those of third parties, are
integral to our performan ce. We also rely on our employees and
third parties (including downstream service providers) in our day-
to-day and ongoing operations, who may, as a result of human
error, misconduct (including errors in judgment, malice,
fraudulent activity and/or engaging in violations of applicable
policies, laws, rules or procedures), malfeasanc e or a failure or
breach of systems or infrastructure cause disruptions to our
organization and expose us to operational losses, regulatory risk
and reputational harm. The Corporation’ s and third parties’
inability to properly introduce, deploy and manage changes to
internal financial and governance processes, existing products,
services and technology , as well as new produc t innovations and
technology could also result in additional operational and
regulatory risk.
Additionally , our financial, accounting, data processing and
transmission, storage, backup or other opera ting or security
systems and infrastructure, or those of third parties with whom
we interact or upon whom we rely, may be ineffective or fail to
operate properly or become disabled or damage d as a result of a
number of factors including events that are wholly or partially
beyond our or such third party’ s control, which could adversely
affect our ability to proce ss transactions or provide services. We
could also experience prolonged computer and network outages
resulting in disruptions to our critical business operations and
customer services, including abuse or failure of our electronic
trading and algorithmic platforms. We may experience sudden
increases in customer transaction volume  or electrical,
telecommunications or other major physical infrastructure
outages, newly identified vulnerabilities in key hardware or
software, failure of aging infrastructure and technology project
implementation challenges, which could result in prolonged
operational outages. Climate change is increasing the frequency
and severity of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, wildfires,
tornadoes, hurricanes and floods, which could result in increased
exposure to operationa l risks, including outag es. Additionally ,
events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters,
including civil unrest and terrorist acts, could result in operational
disruptions and prolonged operational outages.
We continue to execute  our business continuity plans due to
the pandemic and will likely continue to be subject to heightened
operational risks to the extent that the pandem ic persists. We
also continue to have greater reliance on remote access tools
and technology and employees’  personal system s and increased
data utilization and be increasingly depen dent upon our
information technology infrastructure to operate ourbusinesses remotely due to the increased number of employees
who work from home  and evolving custom er preferences,
including increased reliance on digital banking and other digital
services provided by our businesses. Effective  management of
our business continuity depends on the security , reliability and
adequacy of such syste ms. We also continue to be at risk of
business disruptions due to illness and unavailability as the
pandemic persists, including from the emergence of new
variants, particularly if they are more transmissible and/or severe.
Regardless of the measures we have taken to implement
training, procedures, backup systems and other safeguards to
support our operations and bolster our operational resilience, our
ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by any
significant disruptions to us or to third parties  (including their
downstream service providers) with whom we interact or upon
whom we rely, includin g systemic cyber events that result in
system outages and unavailability of part or all of the internet,
cloud service s and/or the financial services industry infrastructure
(including critical banking activities). Our ability to implement
backup systems and other safeguards with respect to third-party
systems and the financial services industry infrastructure is more
limited than with respect to our own systems.
Furthermore, to the extent that backup systems are available
and utilized, they may not process data as quickly as our primary
systems and some data might not have been backed up. We
regularly update the systems on which we rely to support our
operations and growth and to remain compliant with all applicable
laws, rules and regulations globally . This updating entails
significant costs and creates risks associated with implementing
new systems and integrating them with existing ones, including
business interruptions.
A failure or breach of our operational or security systems or
infrastructure or business continuity plans resulting in disruption
to our critical business operations and customer services and/or
failure to identify and effectively respond to operational risks in a
timely manner could expose us to market abuse, regulatory ,
market, privacy and liquidity risk, and adversely impact our
results of operations and financial condition, as well as cause
legal or reputational harm.
A cyberattack, information or security breach, or a
technology failure of ours or of a third party could adversely
affect our ability to conduct our business, manage our
exposure to risk, result in the disclosure and/or misuse of
information and/or fraudulent activity and increase our
operational and security systems and critical infrastructure
costs.
Our business is highly dependent on the security , controls
and efficacy of our infrastructure, comp uter and data
management systems, as well as those of our customers,
suppliers, counterparties and other third parties  (including their
downstream service providers) the financial services industry and
financial data aggregato rs, with whom we interact, on whom we
rely or who have access to our customers' personal or account
information. Our business relies on effective acce ss management
and the secure collection, processing, transmission, storage and
retrieval of confidential, proprietary , personally identifiable and
other information in our computer and data management systems
and networks, and in the computer and data management
systems and networks of third parties. In addition, to remotely
access our network, products and services, our employees,
customers, suppliers, counterparties and other third parties
increasingly use personal mobile devices or computing devices
that are outside of our
15 Bank of America
network and control environments and are subject to their own
cybersecurity risks.
We, our employees, customers, regulators and third parties
(including providers of products and services) are regularly the
target of an increasing number of cyber threats and attacks and
will continue to be. Cyber threats and techniques used in
cyberattacks are pervasive, sophisticated, rapidly evolving,
difficult to prevent and include computer viruses, malicious or
destructive code (such as ransomware), social engineering
(including phishing, vishing and smishing), denial of service or
information or other security breach tactics that could result in
disruptions to our busine sses and operations, the loss of funds of
the Corporation and/or its clients and the unauthorized release,
gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction or theft of
confidential, proprietar y and other information, including
intellectual property , of ours, our employees, our customers or of
third parties. Cybersecurity risks have also significantly increased
in recent years in part due to the growing number and
increasingly sophisticate d activities of maliciou s cyber actors,
including organized crime groups, hackers, terrorist
organizations, extremist parties, hostile foreign governments and
state-sponsored actors, in some instances acting to promote
political ends responding to policies and/or actions of the U.S.
government. We are also subject to cyberattacks by disgruntled
employees, activists and other third parties, including those
involved in corporate espionage.
Our cybersecurity risk and exposure remains heightened
because of, among other things, the evolving nature and
pervasiveness of cyber threats, our prominent size and scale, our
high-profile brand, our geographic footprint and international
presence and our role in the financial services industry and the
broader economy . The financial services industry , including the
Corporation, is particularly at risk because of the use of and
reliance on digital banking and other digital services, including
mobile banking products, such as mobile payments, and other
web- and cloud-based products and applic ations and the
development of additional remote connectivity solutions, which
increase cybersecurity risks and exposure. Acceptance and use
of such digital banking products and services has substantially
increased since the onset of the pandemic. Additionally , the
proliferation of third-party financial data aggregators and
emerging technologies, including our use of automation, artificial
intelligence (AI) and robotics, increase our cybersecurity risks
and exposure.
We continue to execute  our business continuity plans due to
the pandemic. Accordingly , our risk and exposure to cyberattacks
and security breaches remain magnified due to our continued
reliance on remote access tools and technology , resulting in
increased reliance on virtual/digital interactions and a larger
number of access point s to our networks that must be secured.
This increased risk of unauthorized access to our networks
results in greater amounts of information being available for
access, including from employees’  personal devices over which
we do not have the same controls as we do when a larger
employee population is working from our offices. Greater demand
on our information technology infrastructure and security tools
and processes will likely  continue as the pandemic persists and
may be experienced permanently .
We also face indirect technology , cybersecurity and
operational risks relating to the customers, clients and other third
parties (including their downstream service providers) and the
financial services industry with whom we do business, upon
whom we rely to facilita te or enable our business activities or
upon whom  our customers rely. Other indirec t risks relate to
providers of products and/or services, financial counterparties,financial data aggregators, financial intermediaries, such as
clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses, regulators,
providers of critical infrastructure, such as internet access and
electrical power , and retailers for whom we process transactions.
We are also at addition al risk resulting from critical third-party
information security and open-source software vulnerabilities.
Additionally , we have exposure to cyber threats as a result of
our continuous transmission of sensitive information to, and
storage of such information by, third parties, including providers
of products and/or services, and regulators, the outsourcing of
some of our business operations, and system and customer
account updates and conversions. Further , any such event may
not be disclosed to us in a timely manner . Similarly , any failure,
cyberattack or other information or security breach that
significantly degrades, deletes or compromises  our systems or
data could adversely impact third parties, counterparties and the
critical infrastructure of the financial services industry .
As a result of increasing  consolidation, interdependence and
complexity of financial entities and technology systems, a
technology failure, cyberattack or other information or security
vulnerability , failure or breach that significantly exposes,
degrades, deletes or compromises the systems or data of one or
more financial entities or third parties (or their downstream
service providers) could have a material impact on us, our
counterparties or other market participants and ultimately have
an adverse impact on financial stability in the U.S. and/or
globally . This consolidation, interconnectivity and complexity
increases the risk of operational failure, on both individual and
industry-wide bases, as disparate systems need to be integrated,
often on an accelerated basis.
Cyber threa ts and the techniques used in cyberattacks
change rapidly . Despite substantial efforts to protect the integrity
and resilience of our systems and implement controls, processes,
policies and other protective measures, we may not be able to
anticipate or detect cyberattacks or information or security
breaches and implement effective preventiv e or defensive
measures to address or mitigate such attacks or breaches. Even
the most advanced internal control environment is vulnerable to
compromise. Internal access management failur es could result in
the compromise or unauthorized exposure of confidential data.
Cyberattacks or security breaches could persist for an
extended period of time before being detecte d. It could take
considerable additional time for us to determine the scope,
extent, amount, and type of information compromised, at which
time the impact on the Corporation and measures to recover and
restore to a business-as -usual state may be difficult to assess. As
cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend
significant additional money and resources to modify or enhance
our protective measures, investigate and remediate any
information security , software or network vulnerabilities or
incidents whether specific to us, a third party , the industry or
businesses in general, and develop our capabilities to respond
and recover . As a result, increasing resources to develop and
enhance our controls, processes and practices designed to
protect our systems, workstations, intellectual property and
proprietary information, software, data and networks from attack,
damage or unauthorized access, remains a critical priority .
Although to date we have not experienced any material losses
or other material consequences relating to technology failure,
cyberattacks or other information or security breaches, whether
directed at us or third parties, there can be no assurance that our
controls and procedures in place to monitor
Bank of America 16
and mitigate the risks of cyber threats, including  the remediation
of critical information security and software vulnerabilities, will be
sufficient and/or timely and that we will not suffer material losses
or consequ ences in the future. Successful penetration or
circumvention of system security could result in negative
consequences, including loss of customers and business
opportunities, the withdrawal of customer deposits,
misappropriation or destruction of our intellectual property ,
proprietary information or confidential information and/or the
confidential, proprietary or personally identifiab le information of
certain parties, such as our employees, customers, providers of
products and services, counterparties and other third parties, or
damage to their computers or systems. Also, any technology
failure, cybe rattack, successful penetration or circumvention of
our networks and systems or other information or security
breach, termination or constraint of any third party (including their
downstream service providers), the financial services industry
infrastructure or financial data aggregators, could, among other
things, adversely affect our ability to conduct day-to-day business
activities, effect transac tions, service our clients, manage our
exposure to risk or expand our businesses, result in fraudulent or
unauthorized transactio ns or cause prolonged  computer and
network outages resulting in material disruptio ns to our or our
customers’  or other third parties’  network access or critical
business operations and customer services, in the U.S. and/or
globally .
Cyberattacks or other information or security breaches,
whether directed at us or third parties, may result in significant
lost revenue , give rise to losses and claims brought by third
parties, litigation exposure, government fines, penalties or
intervention and other negative consequences. Furthermore, the
public perce ption that a cyberattack on our systems has been
successful, whether or not this perception is correct, may
damage our reputation with customers and third parties with
whom we do business and/or result in the loss of confidence in
our security measures. Additionally , our failure to communicate
cyber incidents appropriately to relevant parties could result in
regulatory , privacy , opera tional and reputational risk. Although we
maintain cyber insurance, there can be no assurance that
liabilities or losses we may incur will be cove red under such
policies or that the amount of insurance will be adequate.
Cyberattacks or other information or security breaches could also
result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws in the
U.S. and abroad, reimbursement or other compensatory costs,
additional compliance costs, and our internal controls or
disclosure controls being rendered ineffective. The occurrence of
any of these events could adversely impact our results of
operations, liquidity and financial condition.
Failure to satisfy our obligations as servicer for residential
mortgage securitizations, loans owned by other entities and
other losses we could incur as servicer , could adversely
impact our reputation, servicing costs or results of
operations.
We and our legacy companies service mortgage loans on
behalf of third-party securitization vehicles and other investors. If
we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer or
master servicer , we may be subject to terminatio n if the breach is
not cured within a specified period of time following notice, which
could cause us to lose servicing income. In addition, we may
have liability for any failure by us, as a servicer or master
servicer , for any act or omission on our part that involves willful
misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard of
our duties. If any such breach was found to have occurred, it may
harm our reputation, increase our servicing costs, result in
litigation or regulatory action or adversely impact our results ofoperations. Additionally , with respect to foreclosures, we may
incur costs or losses due to irregularities in the underlying
documentation, or if the validity of a foreclosure action is
challenged by a borrower or overturned by a court because of
errors or deficiencies in the foreclosure process. We may also
incur costs or losses relating to delays or alleged deficiencies in
processing documents necessary to comply with state law
governing foreclosure.
Changes in the structure of and relationship among the
GSEs could adversely impact our business.
During 2021, we sold approximately $3.2 billion of loans to
GSEs, primarily Freddie Mac (FHLMC). FHLMC and Fannie Mae
(FNMA) are currently in conservatorship with their primary
regulator , the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHF A) acting as
conservator . In September 2019, the Treasury Department
published a proposal to recapitalize FHLMC and FNMA  and
remove them from conse rvatorship as well as reduce their role in
the marketplace. Consistent with this proposal, in January 2021,
the Treasury Department further amended the agreement that
governs the conservatorship of FHLMC and FNMA  and
delineated the continued objective to remove the GSEs from
conservatorship. However , we cannot predict the future
prospects of the GSEs, timing of the recapitalization or release
from conser vatorship, or content of legislative or rulemaking
proposals regarding the future status of the GSE s in the housing
market. Additionally , if the GSEs were to take a reduced role in
the marketplace, including by limiting the mortgage products they
offer, we could be required to seek alternative funding sources,
retain additional loans on our balance sheet, secure funding
through the Federal Home Loan Bank system, or securitize the
loans through Private Label Securitizatio n. Accordingly ,
uncertainty regarding their future and the mortgage-backed
securities they guarantee continues to exist for the foreseeable
future.
Any of these developme nts could adversely affect the value of
our securities portfolios, capital levels, liquidity and results of
operations.
Our risk management framework may not be effective in
mitigating risk and reducing the potential for losses.
Our risk management framework is designed to minimize risk
and loss to us. We seek to effectively and consistently identify ,
measure, monitor , report and control the types of risk to which we
are subject, including strategic, credit, legal, climate, market,
liquidity , compliance, operational and reputational risks. While we
employ a broad and diversified set of controls and risk mitigation
techniques, including modeling and forecasting, hedging
strategies and techniques that seek to balance our ability to profit
from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses, our
ability to control and mitigate risks that result in losses is
inherently limited by our ability to identify all risks, including
emerging and unknown risks, anticipate the timing of risks, apply
effective hedging strateg ies, make correct assum ptions, manage
and aggregate data correctly and efficiently , and develop risk
management models to assess and control risk.
Our ability to manage risk is dependent on our ability to
consistently execute all elements of our risk management
program and develop and maintain a culture of managing risk
well through out the Corporation and manage risks associated
with third parties (including their downstream service providers),
including providers of products and/or services, to enable
effective risk management and ensure that risks are
appropriately considered, evaluated and responded to in a timely
manner . Uncertain economic conditions, heightened
17 Bank of America
legislative and regulatory scrutiny of and change within the
financial services indus try, the pace of technological changes,
accounting and market developments, the failure of employees to
comply with our policies and Risk Framework and the overall
complexity of our operations, among other developments, may
result in a heightened level of risk for us. We have experienced
increased operational, reputational and compliance risk as a
result of the need to rapidly implement multiple and varying
pandemic relief programs, such as PPP and the processing of
unemployment benefits for California and certain other states,
which have resulted and will continue to result in losses, in
addition to the continued execution of our business continuity
plans due to the pandemic. Our failure to manage evolving risks
or properly anticipate, manage, control or mitigate risks could
result in additional losses.
Regulatory , Compliance and Legal
We are subject to comprehensive government legislation
and regula tions and certain settlements, orders and
agreements with government authorities from time to time.
We are subject to comprehensive regulation under federal
and state laws in the U.S. and the laws of the various
jurisdictions in which we operate, including increasing and
complex economic sanctions regimes. These laws and
regulations significantly affect and have the potential to restrict
the scope of our existin g businesses, limit our ability to pursue
certain business opportunities, including the products and
services we offer, reduce certain fees and rates or make our
products and services more expensive for our clients.
Additionally , we are required to file various financial and non-
financial regulatory reports to comply with laws and rules in the
jurisdictions in which we operate.
We continue to adjust our business and operations, legal
entity struct ure and our policies, processes, procedures and
controls, including with regard to capita l and liquidity
management, risk management and data management, to
comply with currently effective laws and regulations, as well as
final rulemaking, guidance and interpretation  by regulatory
authorities, including the Department of Treasu ry (including the
Internal Revenue Service (IRS)), Federal Reserve, OCC, CFPB,
Financial Stability Oversight Council, FDIC, Department of Labor ,
SEC and CFTC in the U.S. and foreign regulators and other
government authorities.  Further , we could become subject to
future legislation and regulatory requirements beyond those
currently proposed, adopted or contemplated in the U.S. or
abroad, including policies and rulemaking related to the Financial
Reform Act, the pandemic, emerging technolo gies and climate
change. The cumulative effect of all of the legislation and
regulations on our business, operations and profitability remains
uncertain. This uncertainty necessitates that in our business
planning we make certa in assumptions with respect to the scope
and requirements of prospective and proposed rules. If these
assumptions prove incorrect, we could be subject to increased
regulatory and compliance risks and costs as well as potential
reputational harm. In addition, U.S. and international regulatory
initiatives may overlap, and non-U.S. regulation s and initiatives
may be inconsistent or may conflict with current or proposed U.S.
regulations, which could lead to compliance risks and increased
costs.
Our regulators’  prudential and supervisory authority gives
them broad power and discretion to direct our actions, and they
have assumed an active oversight, inspection and investigatory
role across the financial services industry . Regul atory focus is not
limited to laws and regulations applicable to the financial services
industry , but extends to other significant laws andregulations that apply across industries and jurisdictions,
including those related to data management and privacy , anti-
money laundering, anti-corruption and economic sanctions.
We are also subject to laws, rules and regulations in the U.S.
and abroad,  including GDPR, CCPA and CPRA, and a number of
additional jurisdictions enacting or considerin g similar laws,
regarding compliance with our privacy policies and the
disclosure, collection, use, sharing and safeguarding of
personally identifiable information of certain parties, such as our
employees, customers, suppliers, counterparties and other third
parties, the violation of which could result in litigation, regulatory
fines and enforcement actions. The complexity and risk of
compliance has been magnified by the collection of employee
health information in response to the pandemic. Additionally , we
will likely be subject to new and evolving data privacy laws in the
U.S. and abroad, which could result in additional costs of
compliance, litigation, regulatory fines and enforcement actions.
In particular , there is increased complexity and uncertainty ,
including potential suspension or prohibition, regarding the
standards used by the Corporation for cross-border flows and
transfers of personal data from the European Economic Area
(EEA) to the U.S. and other jurisdictions outside of the EEA
resulting from a decision of the Court of Justic e of the EU and
guidance from the Europ ean Data Protection Board. Additionally ,
the European Commission has published new standards of
personal data transfer , and China and the U.K. have commenced
consultation efforts to establish standards for personal data
transfers. If cross-border personal data transfer s are suspended
or restricted  or we are required to implement distinct processes
for each jurisdiction’ s standards, this could result in operational
disruptions to our businesses, additional costs, increased
enforcement activity , new contract negotiations with third parties,
and/or modification of our cross-border data management.
As part of their enforcement authority , our regulators and
other government authorities have the authority to, among other
things, conduct investigations and assess significant civil or
criminal monetary penalties or restitution and issue cease and
desist orders  and initiate injunctive actions. The amounts paid by
us and other financial institutions to settle proceedings or
investigations have, in some instances, been substantial and
may increase. In some cases, governmental authorities have
required criminal pleas or other extraordinary terms as part of
such resolutions, which could have significant consequences,
including reputational harm, loss of customers, restrictions on the
ability to access capital markets, and the inability to operate
certain businesses or of fer certain products for a period of time.
The Corporation and the conduct of its employees and
representatives, includi ng conduct that could harm clients,
customers, employees or the integrity of the markets, are subject
to regulatory scrutiny across jurisdictions. The complexity of the
federal and state regulatory and enforcement regimes in the
U.S., couple d with the global scope of our operations and the
regulatory environment worldwide, also means that a single
event or practice or a series of related events or practices may
give rise to a significant number of overlapping investigations and
regulatory proceedings,  either by multiple federal and state
agencies in the U.S. or by multiple regula tors and other
governmental entities in different jurisdictio ns. Additionally ,
actions by other members of the financial services industry
related to business activities in which we participate may result in
investigations by regulators or other government authorities.
Responding to inquiries, investigations, lawsuits and proceedings
is time-consuming and expensive and can divert senior
management attention from our business. The
Bank of America 18
outcome of such procee dings, which may last a number of years,
may be dif ficult to predict or estimate.
We are and may become subject to the terms of settlements,
orders and agreements that we have entered into with
government entities and regulatory authorities, which impose, or
could impose, significant operational and compliance costs on us
as they typically require us to enhance our procedures and
controls, expand our risk and control functions within our lines of
business, invest in technology and hire significant numbers of
additional risk, control and compliance personnel. Moreover , if we
fail to meet the requirem ents of the regulatory settlements, orders
or agreements to which we are subject, or, more generally , fail to
maintain risk and control procedures and processes that meet
the heightened standards established by our regulators and other
government authorities, we could be required to enter into further
settlements, orders or agreements and pay additional fines,
penalties or judgments, or accept material regulatory restrictions
on our businesses.
While we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk
management and compliance programs to identify , assess,
monitor and report on employees conduct, applicable laws,
policies and procedures, compliance risks will continue to exist,
particularly as we adapt to new and evolving laws, rules and
regulations. Additionally , changing U.S. fiscal , monetary and
regulatory policies, and evolving priorities, may result in ongoing
regulatory uncertainties. There is no guarantee that our risk
management and compliance programs will be consistently
executed to successfully manage compliance risk. We also rely
upon third parties who may expose us to compliance and legal
risk. Future legislative or regulatory actions, and any required
changes to our busines s or operations, or those of third parties
(including their downstream providers) upon whom we rely,
resulting from such developments and actions could result in a
significant loss of revenue, impose additional compliance and
other costs or otherwise  reduce our profitability , limit the products
and service s that we offer or our ability to pursue certain
business opportunities, require us to dispose of or curtail certain
businesses, affect the value of assets that we hold, require us to
increase our prices and therefore reduce demand for our
products, or otherwise adversely affect our businesses. In
addition, investigations, legal and regulatory proceedings and
other contingencies will arise from time to time that may result in
fines, regulatory sanctions, penalties, equitable relief and
changes to our business practices. As a result, we are and will
continue to be subject to heightened compliance and operating
costs that could adversely af fect our results of operations.
We are subject to significant financial and reputational risks
from potential liability arising from lawsuits and regulatory
and government action.
We continue to face significant legal risks in our business,
with a high volume of claims against us and other financial
institutions. The amount of damages, penalties and fines that
litigants and regulators seek from us and other financial
institutions continues to be high. This includes disputes with
consumers, customers and other counterparties.
Financial institutions, including us, continue to be the subject
of claims alleging anti-competitive conduct with respect to various
products and markets, including U.S. antitrust class actions
claiming joint and several liability for treble damages. As
disclosed in Note 12 — Commitments and Contingencies  to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, we also face contractual
indemnification and loan-repurchase claims arising from alleged
breaches of representations and warranties in the sale ofresidential mortgages by legacy companies, which may result in
a requirement that we repurchase the mortgage loans, or
otherwise make whole or provide other remedies to
counterparties.
In addition, regulatory authorities have had a supervisory
focus on enforcement, including in connectio n with customer
complaints, alleged violations of law and customer harm. For
example, U.S. regulators and government agencies have
pursued claims against financial institutions under the Financia l
Institutions Reform, Recovery , and Enforcement Act, the False
Claims Act, fair lending laws and regulations (including the Equal
Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act), antitrust laws,
and consum er protec tion laws and regula tions, including
prohibitions on unfair , deceptive, and/or abusive acts and
practices under the Consumer Financial Protection Act and the
Federal Trade Comm ission Act. Such claims may carry
significant and, in certain cases, treble damages. There is also
an increase d focus on compliance with global laws, rules and
regulations related to the collection, use, sharing and
safeguarding of personally identifiable informatio n and corporate
data. Additionally , misconduct  by the Corporation’ s employees
and representatives, including unethical, fraudu lent, improper or
illegal conduct, or other unfair , deceptiv e, abusive or
discriminatory business practices, can result in litigation and/or
government investigatio ns and enforcement actions, and cause
significant reputational harm. There is also increased scrutiny of
climate change-related policies, goals and disclosure, which
could result in litigation and regulatory investigations and actions.
The global environment of extensive investigations,
regulation, regulatory compliance burdens,  litigation and
regulatory enforcement, combined with uncertainty related to the
continually evolving regulatory environment, have affected and
will likely continue to affect operational and comp liance costs and
risks, including the limitation or cessation of our ability or
feasibility to continue providing certain products and services.
Lawsuits and regulatory actions have resulted in and will likely
continue to result in judgments, orders settlements, penalties and
fines adverse to us. Further , the Corporation's participation in
implementing governm ent relief measures related to the
pandemic and other federal and state govern ment assistance
programs, including the processing of unemployment benefits for
California and certain other states, may lead to additional such
judgments, orders, settlements, penalties and fines. Litigation
and investigation costs, substantial legal liability or significant
regulatory or government action against us could have material
adverse effects on our business, financial condition, including
liquidity , and results of operations, and/or cause significant
reputational harm to us.
U.S. federal banking agencies may require us to increase
our regulatory capital, total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC),
long-term debt or liquidity requirements.
We are subject to U.S. regulatory capital and liquidity rules.
These rules, among  other things, establish minimum
requirements to qualify as a well-capitalized institution. If any of
our subsidiary insured depository institutions fails to maintain its
status as well capitalized under the applicable regulatory capital
rules, the Federal Reserve will require us to agree to bring the
insured depository institution back to well-capita lized status. For
the duration  of such an agreement, the Feder al Reserve may
impose restrictions on our activities. If we were to fail to enter into
or comply with such an agreement, or fail to comply with the
terms of such agreemen t, the Federal Reserve may impose more
severe restrictions on our activities, including
19 Bank of America
requiring us to cease and desist activities permitted under the
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.
Capital and liquidity requirements are frequently introduced
and amended. It is possible that regulators may increase
regulatory capital requi rements including TLAC and long-term
debt requirements, change how regulatory capital is calculated or
increase liquidity requirements. Our ability to return capital to our
shareholders depends in part on our ability to maintain regulatory
capital levels above minimum requirements plus buffers. To the
extent that increases occur in our SCB, G-SIB surcharge or
countercyclical capital buffer, our returns of capital to
shareholders could decrease. For example, our G-SIB surcharge
is expected to increase  by 50 basis points to 3.0 percent on
January 1, 2024.
As part of its CCAR, the Federal Reserve conducts stress
testing on parts of our business using hypothetical economic
scenarios prepared by the Federal Reserve. Those scenarios
may affect our CCAR stress test results, which may impact the
level of our SCB requiring us to hold additional capital.
Additionally , the Federal Reserve could reinstitute limitations or
prohibitions on taking capital actions, such as paying or
increasing dividends or repurchasing common stock as a result
of the economic impact of the ongoing pandem ic or otherwise
impose such limitations in connection with other economic
disruptions or events.
A significant component of regulatory capital ratios is
calculating our RWA and our leverage exposure, which may
increase. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has also
revised several key methodologies for measuring RWA that have
not yet been implemented in the U.S., including a standardized
approach for operational risk, revised market risk requirements
and constraints on the use of internal models, as well as a capital
floor based on the revised standardized approaches. U.S.
banking regulators may update the U.S. Basel 3 rules to
incorporate the Basel Committee revisions . Banks have
experienced an increase in balance sheets, increasing leverage
exposures and causing leverage-based ratios to overtake risk-
based capital ratios.
Changes to and compliance with the regulatory capital and
liquidity requirements may impact our operations by requiring us
to liquidate assets, increase borrowings, issue additional equity
or other securities, cease or alter certain operations or hold
highly liquid  assets, which may adversely affect our results of
operations.
Changes in account ing standards or assumptions in
applying accounting policies could adversely affect us.
Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how
we record and report our financial condition and results of
operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and
assumptions that may affect the reported value of our assets or
liabilities and results of operations and are critical because they
require management to make difficult, subjective and complex
judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. If those
assumptions, estimates or judgments were misapplied, we could
be required to correct and restate prior-period financial
statements. Accounting standard-setters and those who interpret
the accounting standards, including the SEC, banking regulators
and our independent registered public accounting firm may also
amend or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions
on how various standards should be applied. These changes
may be difficult to predict and could impact how we prepare and
report our financial statements. In some cases, we could be
required to apply a new or revisedstandard retrospectively , resulting in us revising prior-period
financial statements.
We may be adversely affected by changes in U.S. and non-
U.S. tax laws and regulations.
It is possible  that governmental authorities in the U.S. and/or
other countries could further amend or repeal tax laws in a way
that would materially adversely affect us, including the possibility
that aspects  of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could be
amended in the future. Any future change in tax laws and
regulations or interpretations of current or future tax laws and
regulations could materially adversely affect our results of
operations. Additionally , U.S. and foreign tax laws are complex
and our judgments, interpretations or applications of such tax
laws could differ from that of the relevant governmental authority .
This could result in additional tax liabilities and interest, penalties,
the reduction of certain  tax benefits and/or the requirement to
make adjustments to amounts recorded, which could be material.
In addition, we have U.K. net deferred tax assets (DTA) which
consist primarily of net operating losses that are expected to be
realized by certain subsidiaries over an extended number of
years. Adverse developments with respect to tax laws or to other
material factors, such as prolonged worsening of Europe’ s capital
markets or changes in the ability of our U.K. subsidiaries to
conduct business in the EU, could lead our management to
reassess and/or change its current conclusion that no valuation
allowance is necessary with respect to our U.K. net DT A.
Reputation
Damage to our reputation could harm our businesses,
including our competitive position and business prospects.
Our ability to attract and retain customers, clients, investors
and employ ees is impacted by our reputation. Harm to our
reputation can arise from various sources, including officer,
director and/or employee activities, such as fraud, misconduct
and unethic al behavior (such as employees’  sales practices),
security breaches, litigation or regulatory matters and their
outcomes, compensati on practices, lending practices, the
suitability or reasonable ness of recommending particular trading
or investment strategies, including the reliability of our research
and models and prohibiting clients from engaging in certain
transactions.
Additionally , our reputation may be harmed by failing to
deliver the products and standards of service and quality
expected by our customers, clients and the community , the
failure to recognize and address customer complaints,
compliance failures, the inability to manage technology change or
maintain effective data management, cyber incidents, prolonged
or repeated system outages, internal and external fraud,
inadequacy of responsiveness to internal controls, unintended
disclosure of personal, proprietary or confidential information,
conflicts of interest and breach of fiduciary obligations, the
handling of health emergencies or pandemics, and the activities
of our clients, customers, counterparties and third parties,
including providers of products and/or services. For example, our
reputation may be harmed in connection with our implementation
of government programs to provide relief to address the
economic impact of the pandemic and other federal and state
government assistance programs, including the processing of
unemployment benefits for California and certain other states, as
well as how we handle employee matters related to the
pandemic. Our reputation may also be negatively impacted by
our ESG practices and disclosures, our businesses
Bank of America 20
and our customers, including practices and disclosures related to
climate change.
Actions by the financial services industry generally or by
certain members or individuals in the industry also can adversely
affect our reputation. Also, adverse publicity or negative
information posted on social media by employees, the media or
otherwise, whether or not factually correct, may adversely impact
our business prospects or financial results.
We are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations
regarding privacy , fair lending activity , UDAAP , electronic funds
transfers, know-your-customer requirements, data protection,
including the GDPR, CCPA and CPRA, cross-border data
movement and other matters. Principles concerning the
appropriate scope of consumer and commercial privacy vary
considerably in different jurisdictions, and regulatory and public
expectations regarding the definition and scope of consumer and
commercial privacy may remain fluid. It is possible that these
laws may be interpreted  and applied by various jurisdictions in a
manner inconsistent with our current or future practices, or that is
inconsistent with one another . If personal, confidential or
proprietary information of customers or clients in our possession,
or in the possession of third parties (including their downstream
service providers) or financial data aggregators, is mishandled,
misused or mismanage d, or if we do not timely or adequately
address such information, we may face regula tory, reputational
and operational risks which could adversely affect our financial
condition and results of operations.
We could suffer reputatio nal harm if we fail to properly identify
and manage potential conflicts of interest. Management of
potential conflicts of interest has become increasingly complex as
we expand our business activities through more numerous
transactions, obligations and interests with and among our
clients. The failure to adequately address, or the perceived failure
to adequately address, conflicts of interest could affect the
willingness of clients to use our products and services, or give
rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which could adversely
affect our business.
Our actual or perceived  failure to address these and other
issues, such  as operational risks, gives rise to reputational risk
that could harm us and our business prosp ects. Failure to
appropriately address any of these issues could also give rise to
additional regulatory restrictions, legal risks and reputational
harm, which could, among other consequenc es, increase the
size and number of litigation claims and dama ges asserted or
subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties, and cause
us to incur related costs and expenses.
Other
Reforms to and replacement of IBORs and certain other
rates or indices may adversely affect our reputation,
business, financial condition and results of operations.
There continues to be a major transition in progress in the
global financial markets with respect to the replacement of
IBORs, including the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR),
and certain other rates or indices that serve as “benchmarks.”
Such benchmarks have been used extensively across the global
financial markets and in our business. In partic ular, LIBOR has
historically been used in many of our products and contracts,
including derivatives, consumer and commercial loans,
mortgages, floating-rate notes and other adjustable-rate products
and financia l instrumen ts. The aggregate notional amount of
these products and contracts referencing LIBOR or other IBORs
remains material to our business. At the end of 2021, the global
financial markets generally transitioned awayfrom the use of all LIBOR settings (except for certain U.S. dollar
(USD) LIBO R settings). However , there continue to be risks and
challenges associated with the transition from IBORs that may
result in consequences that cannot be fully anticipated, which
expose us to various financial, operational, supervisory , conduct
and legal risks, which we continue to monitor closely .
Through a multi-year effort by the industry and regulators,
ARRs have been identified and/or developed and are being used
to replace LIBOR and other IBORs. However , market and client
adoption of ARRs, may vary across or within categories of
contracts, products and services, resulting in market
fragmentation, decreas ed trading volumes and liquidity ,
increased complexity and modeling and operati onal risks. ARRs
have comp ositions and characteristics that differ from the
benchmarks they replace, in some cases have limited history ,
and may demonstrate less predictable perform ance over time
than the benchmarks they replace. For example, certain ARRs
are calculated on a compounded or weighted-average basis and,
unlike IBORs, do not reflect bank credit risk and therefore
typically require a spread adjustment. There are important
differences between the fallbacks, triggers and calculation
methodologies being implemented in cash and derivatives
markets (including within cash markets). Any mismatch between
the adoption of ARRs in loans, securities and derivatives markets
may impact hedging or other financial arrangements we have
implemented, and as a result we may experience unanticipated
market exposures. Changes resulting from transition to
successor or alternative rates may adversely affect the yield on
loans or securities held by us, amounts paid on securities we
have issued, amounts received and paid on derivatives we have
entered into, the value of such loans, securities or derivative
instruments, the trading market for such products and contracts,
and our ability to effectively use hedging instruments to manage
risk. There can be no assurance that existing assets and
liabilities based on or linked to IBORs that have not already
transitioned to ARRs will successfully transition.
Given the continuation of certain USD LIBOR settings until
June 30, 2023, IBOR -based products and contracts (IBOR
Products) linked to these LIBOR settings will still have to be
transitioned by such time. Although a significant majority of the
aggregate notional amount of our IBOR-based products maturing
after 2021 include or have been updated to include fallbacks to
ARRs, the transitioning of certain IBOR Prod ucts that do not
include fallback provisio ns or adequate fallback mechanisms will
require additional efforts to modify their terms. Some outstanding
IBOR Produ cts are particularly challenging to modify due to the
requirement that all impacted parties consent to such
modification. To address such challenges in IBOR Products,
legislation has been adopted in various jurisdictions, including the
EU, U.K. and New York State, and federal legislation is pending
in the U.S. Congress. Litigation, disputes or other action may
occur as a result of the interpretation or applicat ion of legislation,
in particular , if there is an overlap between laws in different
jurisdictions.
Some of our IBOR Products, in particular LIBOR-based
products and contracts, may contain language giving the
calculation agent (which may be us) discretion to determine the
successor rate (including the ARR and/or the applicable spread
adjustment) to the existing benchmark. We may face a risk of
litigation, disputes or other actions from clients, counterparties,
customers, investors or others based on various claims, for
example that the Corpo ration incorrectly interpreted or enforced
IBOR-based contract provisions, failed to appropriately
communicate the ef fect that the transition to ARRs will have on
21 Bank of America
existing and future products, treated affected parties unfairly or
made inappr opriate product recommendations to or investments
on behalf of its clients, or engaged in anti-competitive behavior or
unlawfully manipulated markets or benchmarks.
We have launched, and expect to continue to develop, launch
and support, ARR-based products and services. There is no
guarantee that liquidity in ARR-based products will develop, and
it is possible that ARR-based products, including products using
credit sensitive rates, will perform differently to IBOR Products
during times of economic stress, adverse or volatile market
conditions and across the credit and economic cycle, which may
impact the value, return  on and profitability of our ARR-based
assets. New financial products linked to ARRs may have
additional legal, financia l, tax, operational, market, compliance,
reputational, competitive or other risks to us, our clients and other
market participants. In particular , banking regulators in the U.S.
and globally have incre ased regulatory scrutiny and intensified
supervisory focus of financial institution LIBOR transition plans,
preparations and readiness, including the Corporation’ s use of
credit-sensitive rates like the Bloomberg Short- Term Bank Yield
Index, which  could result in a regulatory action, litigation and/or
the need to change the products of fered by our businesses.
Failure to meet industry -wide IBOR transition milestones and
to cease issuance of IBOR Products by relevan t cessation dates
may, subject to certain regulatory except ions, result in
supervisory enforcemen t by applicable regulato rs, increase our
cost of, and access to, capital and other consequences.
The market transition may also alter our risk profile and risk
management strategies, including derivative s and hedging
strategies, modeling and analytics, valuation tools, product
design and systems, controls, procedures and operational
infrastructure. This may prove challenging given the limited
history of many of the proposed ARRs and may increase the
costs and risks relate d to potential regulat ory compliance,
requirements or inquiries. Among other risks, various IBOR
Products transition to ARRs at different times or in different
manners, with the result that we may face significant unexpected
interest rate, pricing or other exposures across business or
product lines. Continuing reforms to market transition and other
factors may adversely affect our business, including the ability to
serve customers and maintain market share, financial condition
or results of operations and could result in reputational harm to
us.
We face significant and increasing competition in the
financial services industry .
We operate in a highly competitive environment and
experience intense competition from local and global financial
institutions as well as new entrants, in both domestic and foreign
markets, in which we compete on the basis of a number of
factors, including customer service, quality and range of products
and services  offered, technology , price, fees, reputation, interest
rates on loans and deposits, lending limits, customer
convenience and experience and relationsh ips in relevant
markets. Additionally , the changing regulatory environment may
create competitive disadvantages for us given geography-driven
capital and liquidity requirements.
In addition, emerging technologies and advan ces and the
growth of e-commerce have lowered geograph ic and monetary
barriers of other financial institutions, made it easier for non-
depository institutions to offer products and services that
traditionally were banking products and allowed non-traditional
financial service providers and technology companies tocompete with traditional financial service companies in providing
electronic and internet-based financial solutions and services,
including electronic securities trading with low or no fees and
commissions, marketplace lending, financial data aggregation
and payment processing, including real-time payment platforms.
Further , clients may choose to conduct business with other
market participants who engage in business or offer products in
areas we deem speculative or risky. Increased competition may
negatively affect our earnings by creating pressure to lower
prices, fees, commissions or credit standards on our products
and service s, requiring  additional investment to improve the
quality and delivery of our technology and/or reducing our market
share, or affecting the willingness of our clients  to do business
with us.
Our inability to adapt our business strategies, products and
services could harm our business.
Our business model is based on a divers ified mix of
businesses that provide a broad range of financ ial products and
services, delivered through multiple distribution channels. Our
success depends on our, and our third-party providers of
products and services’  ability to adapt and develop our business
strategies, products, services and technology to rapidly evolving
industry standards and consumer preferences. In particular , the
emergence of the pandemic has resulted in incre ased reliance on
digital banking and other digital services provided by the
Corporation’ s businesses. There is increasing pressure by
competitors to provide products and services on more attractive
terms, includ ing lower fees and higher interest rates on deposits,
and offer lower cost investment strategies, which may impact our
ability to grow revenue and/or effectively compete. Additionally ,
legislative and regulatory developments may affect the
competitive landscape and impact the products and services that
we can offer. Further , we may be impacted by the growth of non-
depository institutions that offer traditional banking products at
higher rates or with low or no fees, or otherwise  offer alternative
products. This can reduce our net interest margin and revenues
from our fee-based products and services, either from a
decrease in the volume of transactions or through a compression
of spreads.
The widespread adoption and rapid evolu tion of new
technologies, including analytic capabilities, self-service digital
trading platforms, internet services, distributed ledgers, such as
the blockch ain system,  cryptocurrencies, Central Bank Digital
Currencies (CBDCs) and payment systems , could require
substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our existing products
and service s as we grow and develop our online and mobile
banking channel strategies in addition to remote connectivity
solutions. As CBDC initiatives evolve and mature, our businesses
and results of operations could be adversely impacted, including
as a result of the introduction of new competitor s to the payment
ecosystem and increase d volatility in deposits and/or significant
long-term reduction in deposits (i.e., financial disintermediation).
Also, we may not be as timely or successful in developing or
introducing new products and services, integrating new products
or services into our existing offerings, responding, managing or
adapting to changes in consumer behavior , preferences,
spending, investing and/or saving habits, achieving market
acceptance of our products and services, reducing costs in
response to pressures to deliver products and services at lower
prices or sufficiently developing and maintaining loyal customers.
The Corporation’ s or its third-party providers of products and
services’  inability or resistance to timely innovate or adapt its
operations, products and services
Bank of America 22
to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences could
result in service disruptions and harm our business and
adversely af fect our results of operations and reputation.
We could suffer operational, reputational and financial harm
if our models and strategies fail to properly anticipate and
manage risk.
We use models and strategies extensively to forecast losses,
project revenue, measure and assess capital and liquidity
requirements for credit, market, operational and strategic risks,
assist in capital planning and assess and control our operations
and financial condition. Model Risk Management is a dedicated
and indepe ndent risk function that defines model risk
governance, policy and guidelines for the Corporation based on
laws, rules and regulations, as well as internal requirements.
Under our Enterprise Model Risk Policy , Model Risk
Management is required to perform model oversight, including
independent validation before initial use, ongoing monitoring
reviews through outcomes analysis and benchmarking, and
periodic revalidation. Models are subject to inherent limitations
due to the use of simplifying assumptions, uncertainty regarding
economic and financial outcomes, and emerging risks from the
use of applications that rely on AI.
Our models and strategies may not be sufficiently predictive
of future results due to limited historical patterns, extreme or
unanticipated market movements or custome r behavior and
liquidity , especially during severe market downturns or stress
events, which could limit their effectiveness and require timely
recalibration. The models that we use to assess  and control our
market risk exposures also reflect assumptions about the degree
of correlation among prices of various asset classes or other
market indicators, which may not be representative of the next
downturn and would magnify the limitations inherent in using
historical data to manage risk. Our models may be adversely
impacted as a result of human error and may not be effective if
we fail to properly oversee and review them at regular intervals
and detect their flaws during our review and monitoring
processes, they contain erroneous data, assumptions,
valuations, formulas or algorithms or our applications running the
models do not perform as expected. Regardless of the steps we
take to ensure effective  controls, governance, monitoring and
testing, and impleme nt new technology and automated
processes, we could suffer operational, reputatio nal and financial
harm if models and strategies fail to properly anticipate and
manage current and evolving risks.
Failure to properly manage data may result in our inability to
manage risk and business needs, errors in our day-to-day
operations, critical reporting and strategic decision-making,
inaccurate reporting and non-compliance with laws, rules
and regulations.
Our ability to obtain, create, report and maintain information,
including the data associated with it, during our normal course of
business is a foundational component of our business and of
managing relationships with customers. Additionally , we rely on
our ability to manage data in an accurate, timely and complete
manner , including the capture, transport, aggregation, validation,
processing, quality , interpretation, protection, maintenance,
retention, external transm ission and use. Our policies, programs,
processes and practices govern how data risk is managed
globally . While we continuously update our policies, programs,
processes and practices  and implement emerg ing technologies,
such as automation, AI and robotics, our data management
processes may not be effective and are subjec t to weaknesses
and failures, including human error, data limitations, process
delays, system failure or failed controls.Failure to properly mana ge data effectively in an accurate, timely
and complete manner may impact its quality and reliability and
our ability to manage current and emerging risk, produce
accurate financial, regulatory and operational reporting, detect or
surveil potential misconduct or non-compliance with laws, rules
and regulatio ns, as well as to manage changing business needs,
strategic decision-making and day-to-day operations. The failure
to establish and maintain effective, efficient and controlled data
management could adversely impact our ability to develop our
products and relationships with our customers, increase
regulatory risk and operational losses, and damage our
reputation.
Our opera tions, businesses and customers could be
materially adversely affected by the impacts related to
climate change.
There is an increasing  concern over the risks of climate
change and related environmental sustainabilit y matters, which
present short-term and an increasing amount of long-term risks
to us. The physical risks of climate change includ e rising average
global temperatures, rising sea levels and an increase in the
frequency and severity of extreme weather events and natural
disasters, including floods, wildfires, hurricanes and tornados.
Such disasters could disrupt our operations or the operations of
customers or third partie s on which we rely. Such disasters could
result in market volatility or negatively impact our customers’
ability to repay outstandi ng loans, result in rapid deposit outflows,
cause supply chain and/or distribution network disruptions,
damage collateral or result in the deterioration of the value of
collateral or insurance shortfalls.
Additionally , climate change concerns could result in transition
risk. Chang es in consumer preferences or technology and
additional legislation, regulatory and legal require ments, including
those associated with the transition to a low-carbon economy ,
could restric t the scope of our existing businesse s, limit our ability
to pursue certain business activities and offer certain products
and services, amplify credit and market risks, negatively impact
asset values, increase expenses, including as a result of
strategic planning and technology and market changes, and/or
otherwise adversely impact us, our businesses or our customers.
Our response to climate change, our climate change strategies,
policies, goals, commitments and disclosure, and/or our ability to
achieve our climate-related goals and commitments (which are
subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of
our control) could result in reputational harm as a result of
negative public sentiment, regulatory scrutin y, litigation and
reduced investor and stakeholder confidence.
Our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is
critical to our success, business prospects and competitive
position.
Our perform ance and competitive position is heavily
dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals.
Competition for qualified personnel within the financial services
industry and from businesses outside the financial services
industry is intense.
Our competitors include global institutions and institutions
subject to different compensation and hiring regulations than
those imposed on U.S. institutions and financial institutions. Also,
our ability to attract and retain employees could be impacted by
the pande mic, including changing workforce concerns,
expectations, practices and preferences (including remote work),
and increasing labor shortages and competition for labor , which
could increase labor costs.
In order to attract and retain qualified person nel, we must
provide market-level compensation. As a large financial and
banking institution, we are and may become subject to
23 Bank of America
additional limitations on compensation practices, which may or
may not affect our competitors, by the Federal Reserve, the
OCC, the FDIC and other regulators around the world. EU and
U.K. rules limit and subject to clawback certain forms of variable
compensation for senior employees. Furthermore, a substantial
portion of our annual incentive compensation paid to our senioremployees, as well as certain periodic awards to both senior and
broad-based groups of employees, consist of long-term equity-
based award s, the value of which is based on the price of our
common stock when the awards vest. Our business prospects
and competitive position could be adversely affected if we cannot
attract and retain qualified individuals.
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
None
Item 2. Properties
As of December 31, 2021, certain principal of fices and other materially important properties consisted of the following:
Facility Name LocationGeneral Character of the Physical
Property Primary Business SegmentProperty
StatusProperty
Square Feet 
Bank of America Corporate
CenterCharlotte, NC 60 Story Building Principal Executive Offices Owned 1,212,177
Bank of America Tower at
One Bryant ParkNew York, NY 55 Story BuildingGWIM, Global Banking and
 Global MarketsLeased 1,836,575
 Bank of America Financial
CentreLondon, UK 4 Building Campus Global Banking and Global Markets Leased 566,920
Cheung Kong Center Hong Kong 62 Story Building Global Banking and Global Markets Leased 149,790
For leased properties, property square feet represents the square footage occupied by the Corporation.
The Corporation has a 49.9 percent joint venture interest in this property .
We own or lease approximately 71.8 million square feet in
over 20,000  facilities and ATM locations globally , including
approximately 66.8 million square feet in the U.S. (all 50 states
and the District of Colum bia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico
and Guam) and approximately 5.0 million square feet in
approximately 35 countries.
We believe our owned and leased properties are adequate for
our busines s needs and are well maintained. We continue to
evaluate our owned and leased real estate and may determine
from time to time that certain of our premises and facilities, or
ownership structures, are no longer necessary for ouroperations. In connection therewith, we regula rly evaluate the
sale or sale/leaseback of certain properties, and we may incur
costs in connection with any such transactions.
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
See Litigation and Regu latory Matters in Note 12 – Commitments
and Conting encies  to the Consolidated Financial Statements,
which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
None
Part II
Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries
Item 5. Market for Registrant’ s Common Equity , Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities
The principal market on which our common stock is traded is the
New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “BAC.” As of
February 18, 2022, there were 148,551 registe red shareholders
of common stock.
The table below presents share repurchase activity for the
three months ended December 31, 2021. The primary source of
funds for cash distributio ns by the Corporation to its shareholders
is dividends received from its bank subsidiaries.Each of the bank subsidiaries is subject to various regulatory
policies and requirements relating to the payment of dividends,
including requirements to maintain capital above regulatory
minimums. All of the Corporation’ s preferred stock outstanding
has preference over the Corporation’ s common stock with
respect to payment of dividends.
(Dollars in millions, except per share information; shares in thousands)Total Common
Shares
Purchased Weighted-
Average Per
Share PriceTotal Shares
Purchased as
Part of Publicly
Announced
Programs Remaining
Buyback
Authority
Amounts 
October 1 - 31, 2021 61,395 $ 45.53 61,390 $ 23,850 
November 1 - 30, 2021 71,187 47.27 71,186 20,624 
December 1 - 31, 2021 30,895 44.45 30,894 19,311 
Three months ended December 31, 2021 163,477 46.08 163,470 
Includes shares of the Corporation's common stock acquired by the Corporation in connection with satisfaction of tax withholding obligations on vested restricted stock or restricted stock units and
certain forfeitures and terminations of employment-related awards and for potential re-issuance to certain employees under equity incentive plans.
On October 20, 2021, the Corporation announced its Board of Directors (Board) authorized the repurchase of up to $25 billion of common stock over time (October Authorization). The Board also
authorized repurch ases to offset shares awarded under equity-based compensation plans. This October Authorization replaced the April 15, 2021 authorization for repurchases of up to $25 billion of
common stock (April Authorization, and together with the October Authorization, the Board Authorizations). During the three months ended December 31, 2021, pursuant to the Board Authorizations,
the Corporation repurchased approximately 163 million shares, or $7.5 billion, of its common stock, including to offset shares awarded under equity-based compensation plans. For more information,
see Capital Management - CCAR and Capital Planning in the MD&A  on page 49 and Note 13 – Shareholders’  Equity  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Remaining Buybac k Authority Amounts represents the remaining buyback authority of the October Authorization. At the time the April Authorization was replaced with the October Authorization, the
Corporation had $9.4 billion of remaining buyback authority available under the April Authorization. Such remaining buyback authority was canceled in the October Authorization. Excludes
repurchases to of fset shares awarded under equity-based compensation plans.
The Corporation did not have any unregistered sales of equity securities during the three months ended December 31, 2021.(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
(1,2) (2) (3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
Bank of America 24
Item 6. [Reserved]
Item 7. Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Table of Contents
Page
Executive Summary 26
Recent Developments 27
Financial Highlights 28
Balance Sheet Overview 30
Supplemental Financial Data 31
Business Segment Operations 36
Consumer Banking 37
Global W ealth & Investment Management 40
Global Banking 42
Global Markets 44
All Other 45
Managing Risk 46
Strategic Risk Management 49
Capital Management 49
Liquidity Risk 54
Credit Risk Management 59
Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management 60
Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management 65
Non-U.S. Portfolio 71
Loan and Lease Contractual Maturities 72
Allowance for Credit Losses 73
Market Risk Management 75
Trading Risk Management 76
Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book 79
Mortgage Banking Risk Management 80
Compliance and Operational Risk Management 80
Reputational Risk Management 81
Climate Risk Management 81
Complex Accounting Estimates 82
Non-GAAP  Reconciliations 85
25 Bank of America
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
Bank of America Corporation (the “Corpor ation”) and its
management may make certain statements  that constitute
“forward-looking stateme nts” within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can
be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical
or current facts. Forward-looking statements often use words
such as “anticipates,” “targets,” “expects,” “hopes,” “estimates,”
“intends,” “plans,” “goals,” “believes,” “continue” and other similar
expressions or future or conditional verbs such  as “will,” “may ,”
“might,” “should,” “would” and “could.” Forward-looking
statements represent the Corporation’ s current expectations,
plans or forecasts of its future results, revenues, provision for
credit losses, expenses, efficiency ratio, capital measures,
strategy and future business and economic conditions more
generally , and other future matters. These statements are not
guarantees of future results or performance and involve certain
known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions that
are difficult to predict and are often beyond the Corporation’ s
control. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from
those expre ssed in, or implied by, any of these  forward-looking
statements.
You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking
statement and should consider the following uncertainties and
risks, as well as the risks and uncertainties more fully discussed
under Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K :
and in any of the Corporation’ s subsequent Securities and
Exchange Commission Filings: the Corporation’ s potential
judgments, orders, settlements, penalties, fines and reputational
damage resulting from pending or future litigation and regulatory
investigations, proceedings and enforcement actions, including
as a result of our participation in and execution of government
programs related to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
pandemic, such as the processing of unemployment benefits for
California and certain other states; the possibility that the
Corporation’ s future liabilities may be in exces s of its recorded
liability and estimated range of possible loss for litigation, and
regulatory and government actions; the possibility that the
Corporation could face increased claims from one or more
parties involved in mortgage securitizations; the Corporation’ s
ability to resolve representations and warranties repurchase and
related claims; the risks related to the discontinuation of the
London Interbank Offered Rate and other reference rates,
including increased expenses and litigation and the effectiveness
of hedging strategies; uncertainties about the financial stability
and growth rates of non-U.S. jurisdictions, the risk that those
jurisdictions may face difficulties servicing their sovereign debt,
and related stresses on financial markets, currencies and trade,
and the Corporation’ s exposures to such risks, including direct,
indirect and operational; the impact of U.S. and global interest
rates, inflati on, currency  exchange rates, econ omic conditions,
trade polici es and tensions, including tariffs, and potential
geopolitical instability; the impact of the interest rate and
inflationary environment on the Corporation’ s business, financial
condition and results of operations; the possibility that future
credit losses may be higher than currently expected due to
changes in economic assumptions, customer behavior , adverse
developments with respect to U.S. or global economic conditions
and other uncertainties, including the impact of supply chain
disruptions, inflationary pressures and labor shortages on the
economic recovery and our business; the Corporation's
concentration of credit risk; the Corporation’ s ability to achieve its
expense targets and expectations regarding revenue, net interest
income, provision for credit losses, net charge-offs, effective taxrate, loan growth or other projections; adverse changes to the
Corporation’ s credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies;
an inability to access capital markets or maintain deposits or
borrowing costs; estimates of the fair value and other accounting
values, subject to impairment assessments, of certain of the
Corporation’ s assets and liabilities; the estimated or actual
impact of changes in accounting standards or assumptions in
applying those standards; uncertainty regard ing the content,
timing and impact of regulatory capital and liquidity requirements;
the impact of adverse changes to total loss-absorbing capacity
requirements, stress capital buffer requiremen ts and/or global
systemically important bank surcharges; the potential impact of
actions of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System on the Corporation’ s capital plans; the effect of changes
in or interp retations of income tax laws and regulations; the
impact of implementation and compliance with U.S. and
international laws, regulations and regulatory  interpretations,
including, but not limited to, recovery and resolution planning
requirements, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
assessments, the Volcker Rule, fiduciary standards, derivatives
regulations and the Coronavirus Aid, Relief,  and Economic
Security Act and any similar or related rules and regulations; a
failure or disruption in or breach of the Corporation’ s operational
or security systems or infrastructure, or those  of third parties,
including as a result of cyberattacks or campaigns; the transition
and physical impacts of climate change; our ability to achieve
environmental, social and governance goals and commitments or
the impact of any changes in the Corporation’ s sustainability
strategy or commitments generally; the impact of any future
federal government shutdown and uncertaint y regarding the
federal government’ s debt limit or changes in fiscal, monetary or
regulatory policy; the emergence of widespread health
emergencies or pandemics, including the magnit ude and duration
of the COVID-19 pande mic and its impact on the U.S. and/or
global, financial market conditions and our business, results of
operations, financial condition and prospects ; the impact of
natural disasters, extreme weather events, military conflict,
terrorism or other geopolitical events; and other matters.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they
are made, and the Corporation undertakes no obligation to
update any forward-looking statement to reflect the impact of
circumstances or events that arise after the date the forward-
looking statement was made.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements referred to in
the Manag ement’ s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) are incorporated by
reference into the MD&A. Certain prior-year amounts have been
reclassified to conform to current-year presentation. Throughout
the MD&A, the Corp oration uses certain acronyms and
abbreviations which are defined in the Glossary .
Executive Summary
Business Overview
The Corporation is a Delaware corporation, a bank holding
company (BHC) and a financial holding company . When used in
this report, “the Corporation,” “we,” “us” and “our” may refer to
Bank of America Corporation individually , Bank of America
Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of Bank of America
Corporation’ s subsidiari es or affiliates. Our principal executive
offices are located in Charlotte, North Carolina. Through our
various bank and nonbank subsidiaries throughout the U.S. and
in international markets, we provide a diversified range of
Bank of America 26
banking and nonbank financial services and products through
four business segments: Consumer Banking , Global Wealth &
Investment Management (GWIM) , Global Banking  and Global
Markets , with the remaining operations recorded in All Other . We
operate our banking activities primarily under the Bank of
America, National Association (Bank of America, N.A. or BANA)
charter . At December 31, 2021, the Corporation  had $3.2 trillion
in assets and a headcount of approximately 208,000 employees.
As of December 31, 2021, we served clients through
operations across the U.S., its territories and approximately 35
countries. Our retail banking footprint covers all major markets in
the U.S., and we serve approximately 67 million consumer and
small business clients with approximately 4,200 retail financial
centers, approximately 16,000 ATMs, and leadin g digital banking
platforms (www .bankofamerica.com) with approximately 41
million active users, including approximately 33 million active
mobile users . We offer industry-leading support to approximately
three million  small business households. Our GWIM  businesses ,
with client balances of $3.8 trillion, provide tailored solutions to
meet client needs throu gh a full set of investme nt management,
brokerage, banking, trust and retirement products. We are a
global leader in corporate and investment banking and trading
across a broad range of asset classes serving corporations,
governments, institutions and individuals around the world.
Recent Developments
Capital Management
On February 2, 2022, the Corporation announced that the Board
of Directors declared a quarterly cash common stock dividend of
$0.21 per share, payable on March 25, 2022 to shareholders of
record as of March 4, 2022.
For more information on our capital resources and regulatory
developments, see Capital Management on page 49.
COVID-19 Pandemic
The Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)  pandemic (the
pandemic) has impacted the Corporation and may continue to do
so, as uncertainty rema ins about the duration of the pandemic
and the timing and stren gth of the global economic recovery . As
the pandem ic continues to evolve, we regularly evaluate
protocols and processes in place to execute our business
continuity plans. In conjunction with our efforts to support clients
affected by the pandemic, we have cumulatively originated $35.4
billion in loans under the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP)
with amounts outstanding of $4.7 billion and $22.7 billion at
December 31, 2021 and 2020. For more information on PPP
loans, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The future direct and indirect impact of the pandemic on our
businesses, results of operations and financial condition remains
uncertain. Should current economic conditions deteriorate or if
the pandemic worsens due to various factors,including through the spread of more easily  communicable
variants of COVID-19, such conditions could have an adverse
effect on our businesses and results of opera tions and could
adversely af fect our financial condition.
For more information on how the risks related to the
pandemic adversely affect our businesses, results of operations
and financial condition, see Part 1. Item 1A. Risk Factors on
page 8.
LIBOR and Other Benchmark Rates
Subject to the continued publication of certain non-representative
London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) benchmark settings
based on a modified calculation (i.e., on a “synthetic” basis),
British Pound Sterling, Euro, Swiss Franc and Japanese Yen
LIBOR settings and one-week and two-month U.S. dollar (USD)
LIBOR settings ceased or became no longer representative of
the underlyi ng market the rates seek to measure (i.e., non-
representative) immedia tely after December 31, 2021, and the
remaining USD LIBOR settings (i.e., overnight, one month, three
month, six month and 12 month) will cease or become non-
representative immediat ely after June 30, 2023. Separately , the
Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
(OCC) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)
issued supervisory guidance encouraging banks to cease
entering into new contra cts that use USD LIBOR as a reference
rate by December 31, 2021 subject to certain regulatory-
approved exceptions (USD LIBOR Guidance).
As a result, a major transition has been and continues to be in
progress in the global financial markets with respect to the
replacement of Interbank Offered Rates (IBORs). This is a
complex process impacting a variety of our businesses and
operations. IBORs have historically been used in many of the
Corporation’ s products and contracts, including derivatives,
consumer and commerc ial loans, mortgages, floating-rate notes
and other adjustable-rat e products and financial instruments. In
response, the Corporati on established an enter prise-wide IBOR
transition program, with active involvement of senior
management and regular reports to the Management Risk
Committee (MRC) and Enterprise Risk Committee (ERC). The
program continues to drive the Corporation's industry and
regulatory engagement, client and financial contract changes,
internal and external communications, technology and operations
modifications, including updates to its operational models,
systems and processes, introduction of new products, migration
of existing clients, and program strategy and governance.
As of December 31, 2021, the Corporation has transitioned or
otherwise addressed IBOR-based products and contracts
referencing the rates that ceased or became non-representative
after December 31, 2021, including LIBOR-linked commercial
loans, LIBOR-based adjustable-rate consumer mortgages,
LIBOR-linked derivatives  and interdealer trading of certain USD
LIBOR and other interest rate swaps, and related hedging
27 Bank of America
arrangements. Additionally , in accordance with the USD LIBOR
Guidance, the Corporation has ceased entering into new
contracts that use USD LIBOR as a reference  rate, subject to
certain regulatory-approved exceptions.
The Corpora tion launche d capabilities and services to support
the issuance and trading in products indexed to various
alternative reference rates (ARRs) and developed employee
training programs as well as other internal and external sources
of information on the various challenges and opportunities that
the replacement of IBORs has presented and continues to
present. The Corporation continues to monitor a variety of market
scenarios as part of its transition efforts, including risks
associated with insuf ficient preparation by individual market
participants or the overall market ecosystem, ability of market
participants to meet regulatory and industry-wide recommended
milestones and access and demand by clients and market
participants to liquidity in certain products, including LIBOR
products.
With respect to the transition of LIBOR products referencing
USD LIBOR  settings ceasing or becoming non-r epresentative as
of June 30, 2023, a significant majority of the Corporation’ s
notional contractual exposure to such LIBOR currencies, of which
the significant majority is derivatives contracts, have been
remediated (i.e., updated to include fallback provisions to ARRs
based on market driven protocols, regulatory guidance and
industry-recommended fallback provisions and related
mechanisms) and the Corporation is continuing to remediate the
remaining USD LIBOR exposure. The remain ing exposure, a
majority of which is made up of derivatives and commercial loans
and which represents a small minority of outstanding USD LIBOR
notional contractual exposure of the Corporation, will require
active dialog ue with clients to modify the contracts. For any
residual exposures after June 2023 that continue to have no
fallback provisions, the Corporation is assessing and planning to
leverage relevant contractual and statutory solutions, including
relevant state legislation and any future federal legislation, to
transition such exposure to ARRs.
The Corporation has implemented regulato ry, tax and
accounting changes and continues to monitor current and
potential impacts of the transition, including Internal Revenue
Service tax regulations and guidance and Financial Accounting
Standards Board guidance. In addition, the Corporation has
engaged impacted clients in connection with the transition by
providing ARRs education and the timing of transition events.
The Corporation is also working actively with global regulators,
industry working groups and trade associat ions. For more
information on the expected replacement of LIBOR and other
benchmark rates, see Item 1A. Risk Factors – Other on page 21.
Changes to Overdraft Services
In January 2022, the Corporation announced changes to its
overdraft services for consumer and small business clients,
which include eliminating non-suf ficient funds (NSF) fees
beginning in February 2022 and reducing overdraft fees from $35
to $10 beginning in May 2022. Fees from overdraft services were
approximately $1 billion in 2021 and recorded in Consumer
Banking  as service charges in the Consolidated Statement of
Income. Due to the policy changes, in 2022 the Corporation
expects a significant reduction in NSF and overdraft fees.Financial Highlights
Table 1Summary Income Statement and Selected
Financial Data
(Dollars in millions, except per share information) 2021 2020
Income statement
Net interest income $ 42,934 $ 43,360 
Noninterest income 46,179 42,168 
Total revenue, net of interest expense 89,113 85,528 
Provision for credit losses (4,594) 11,320 
Noninterest expense 59,731 55,213 
Income before income taxes 33,976 18,995 
Income tax expense 1,998 1,101 
Net income 31,978 17,894 
Preferred stock dividends 1,421 1,421 
Net income applicable to common
shareholders $ 30,557 $ 16,473 
Per common share information   
Earnings $ 3.60 $ 1.88 
Diluted earnings 3.57 1.87 
Dividends paid 0.78 0.72 
Performance ratios
Return on average assets 1.05 % 0.67 %
Return on average common shareholders’
equity 12.23 6.76 
Return on average tangible common
shareholders’ equity 17.02 9.48 
Efficiency ratio 67.03 64.55 
Balance sheet at year end   
Total loans and leases $ 979,124 $ 927,861 
Total assets 3,169,495 2,819,627 
Total deposits 2,064,446 1,795,480 
Total liabilities 2,899,429 2,546,703 
Total common shareholders’ equity 245,358 248,414 
Total shareholders’ equity 270,066 272,924 
For definitions, see Key Metrics on page 169.
Return on average tangible common shareholders’  equity is a non-GA AP financial measure.
For more information and a corresponding reconciliation to the most closely related financial
measures defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
(GAAP), see Non-GAAP  Reconciliations on page 85.
Net income was $32.0 billion or $3.57 per diluted share in 2021
compared to $17.9 billion or $1.87 per diluted share in 2020. The
increase in net income was due to improvemen t in the provision
for credit losses and higher revenue, partially offset by higher
noninterest expense.
For discussion and analysis of our consolidated and business
segment results of operations for 2020 compared to 2019, see
the Financial Highlights and Business Segment Operations
sections in the MD&A  of the Corporation's 2020 Annual Report
on Form 10-K.
Net Interest Income
Net interest  income decreased $426 million to $42.9 billion in
2021 compared to 2020. Net interest yield on a fully taxable-
equivalent (FTE) basis decreased 24 basis points (bps) to 1.66
percent for 2021. The decrease in net interest income was
primarily driven by lower interest rates and average loan
balances, partially offset by higher average balances of debt
securities. For more information on net interest yield and the FTE
basis, see Supplementa l Financial Data on page 31, and for
more information on interest rate risk management, see Interest
Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book on page 79.(1)
(1)
(2)
 (1)
(1)
(2)
Bank of America 28
Noninterest Income
Table 2Noninterest Income
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Fees and commissions:
Card income $ 6,218 $ 5,656 
Service charges 7,504 7,141 
Investment and brokerage services 16,690 14,574 
Investment banking fees 8,887 7,180 
Total fees and commissions 39,299 34,551 
Market making and similar activities 8,691 8,355 
Other income (1,811) (738)
Total noninterest income $ 46,179 $ 42,168 
Noninterest income increased $4.0 billion to $46.2 billion in 2021
compared to 2020. The following highlights the significant
changes.
●    Card income increased $562 million primarily driven by
increased client activity and merchant services revenue.
●    Service  charges increased  $363 million  primarily due to
higher treas ury and credit service charges and increased
client activity .
●    Investment and brokerage services increased $2.1 billion
primarily driven by higher market valuations and assets under
management (AUM) flows, partially offset by declines in AUM
pricing.
●    Investment banking fees increased $1.7 billion primarily due
to higher advisory fees as well as higher debt and equity
issuance fees.
●    Market making and similar activities increased $336 million
primarily driven by strong sales and trading performance in
Equities, partially offset by a weaker performance in Fixed
Income, Currencies and Commodities (FICC), which
benefited from a more favorable market environment in 2020.
●    Other income decreased $1.1 billion primarily due to a $704
million gain on sales of certain mortgage loans in the prior
year, as well as higher partnership losses on tax credit
investments.
Provision for Credit Losses
The provision for credit losses improved $15.9 billion to a benefit
of $4.6 billion in 2021  compared to 2020. The benefit was
primarily due to improvements in the macroeconomic outlook and
credit qualit y. For more information on the provision for credit
losses, see Allowance for Credit Losses on page 73.Noninterest Expense
Table 3Noninterest Expense
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Compensation and benefits $ 36,140 $ 32,725 
Occupancy and equipment 7,138 7,141 
Information processing and communications 5,769 5,222 
Product delivery and transaction related 3,881 3,433 
Marketing 1,939 1,701 
Professional fees 1,775 1,694 
Other general operating 3,089 3,297 
Total noninterest expense $ 59,731 $ 55,213 
Noninterest expense increased $4.5 billion to $59.7 billion in
2021 compa red to 2020. The increase was primarily due to
higher compensation and benefits expense , higher costs
associated with processing transactional card claims related to
state unemployment benefits, a contribution to the Bank of
America Foundation and an impairment charge for real estate
rationalization.
Income Tax Expense
Table 4Income Tax Expense
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Income before income taxes $ 33,976 $ 18,995 
Income tax expense 1,998 1,101 
Effective tax rate 5.9 % 5.8 %
Income tax expense was $2.0 billion for 2021 compared to $1.1
billion in 2020, resulting in an effective tax rate of 5.9 percent
compared to 5.8 percent.
The effective tax rates for 2021 and 2020 were driven by the
impact of our recurring tax preference benefits and positive
income tax adjustments from the impact of U.K. tax law changes
discussed below . Our recurring tax preference benefits primarily
consist of tax credits from environmental, social and governance
(ESG) inves tments in affordable housing and renewable energy ,
aligning with our responsible growth strategy to address global
sustainability challenges. Absent these tax credits, the impact of
the U.K. tax law change s and other discrete items, the effective
tax rates would have been approximately 25 percent and 26
percent for 2021 and 2020.
In June 2021, the U.K. enacted the 2021 Finance Act, which
included an increase in the U.K. corporation income tax rate to
25 percent from 19 percent. This change is effective April 1, 2023
and unfavorably affects income tax expense on future U.K.
earnings. In addition, in July 2020, the U.K. enacted a repeal of
the final two percent of scheduled decreas es in the U.K.
corporation income tax rate. As a result, in 2021 and 2020, the
Corporation recorded write-ups of U.K. net deferred tax assets of
approximately $2.0 billion and $700 million, with corresponding
positive income tax adjustments. These write-up s were reversals
of previously recorded write-downs of net deferred tax assets for
prior changes in the U.K. corporation income tax rate.
29 Bank of America
Balance Sheet Overview
Table 5Selected Balance Sheet Data
 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 $ Change % Change
Assets   
Cash and cash equivalents $ 348,221 $ 380,463 $ (32,242) (8)%
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell 250,720 304,058 (53,338) (18)
Trading account assets 247,080 198,854 48,226 24 
Debt securities 982,627 684,850 297,777 43 
Loans and leases 979,124 927,861 51,263 6 
Allowance for loan and lease losses (12,387) (18,802) 6,415 (34)
All other assets 374,110 342,343 31,767 9 
Total assets $ 3,169,495 $ 2,819,627 $ 349,868 12 
Liabilities
Deposits $ 2,064,446 $ 1,795,480 $ 268,966 15 
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase 192,329 170,323 22,006 13 
Trading account liabilities 100,690 71,320 29,370 41 
Short-term borrowings 23,753 19,321 4,432 23 
Long-term debt 280,117 262,934 17,183 7 
All other liabilities 238,094 227,325 10,769 5 
Total liabilities 2,899,429 2,546,703 352,726 14 
Shareholders’ equity 270,066 272,924 (2,858) (1)
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $ 3,169,495 $ 2,819,627 $ 349,868 12 
Assets
At December 31, 2021, total assets were approximately $3.2
trillion, up $349.9 billion  from December 31, 2020. The increase
in assets was primarily due to higher debt securities that were
primarily funded by deposit growth, an increa se in loans and
leases and higher tradin g account assets, partially offset by lower
federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under
agreements to resell and cash and cash equivalents.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents decreased $32.2 billion primarily
driven by higher investments in debt securities .
Federal Funds Sold and Securities Borrowed or
Purchased Under Agreements to Resell
Federal funds transactions involve lending reserve balances on a
short-term basis. Securities borrowed or purchased under
agreements to resell are collateralized lending transactions
utilized to accommodate customer transactions, earn interest rate
spreads and obtain securities for settlement and for collateral.
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under
agreements to resell decreased $53.3 billion primarily due to the
investment of excess cash into debt securities.
Trading Account Assets
Trading account assets consist primarily of long positions in
equity and fixed-income  securities including U.S. government
and agency securities, corporate securities  and non-U.S.
sovereign debt. Trading  account assets increased $48.2 billion
primarily due to an increase in inventory within Global Markets .
Debt Securities
Debt securities primarily include U.S. Treasury and agency
securities, mortgage-backed securities (MBS), principally agency
MBS, non-U.S. bonds, corporate bonds and municipal debt. We
use the debt securities portfolio primarily to manage interest rate
and liquidity  risk and to leverage market condi tions that create
economically attractive returns on these investments. Debt
securities increased $297.8 billion primarily driven by the
deployment of deposit inflows. For more information on debtsecurities, see Note 4 – Securities  to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
Loans and Leases
Loans and leases increased $51.3 billion primarily driven by
growth in commercial loans and higher securities-based lending
within consumer loans. For more information on the loan
portfolio, see Credit Risk Management on page 59.
Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses
The allowan ce for loan and lease losses decreased $6.4 billion
primarily due to improvements in the macroeconomic outlook and
credit quality . For more information, see Allowance for Credit
Losses on page 73.
All Other Assets
All other assets increase d $31.8 billion primarily driven by higher
margin loans and loans held-for-sale (LHFS).
Liabilities
At December 31, 2021, total liabilities were approximately $2.9
trillion, up $352.7 billion from December 31, 2020, primarily due
to deposit growth.
Deposits
Deposits increased $269.0 billion primarily due to an increase in
retail and wholesale deposits.
Federal Funds Purchased and Securities Loaned or
Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase
Federal funds transactio ns involve borrowing reserve balances
on a short-term basis. Securities loaned or sold under
agreements to repurchase are collateral ized borrowing
transactions utilized to accommodate custom er transactions,
earn interes t rate spreads and finance assets  on the balance
sheet. Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold
under agree ments to repurchase increased $22.0 billion primarily
driven by client activity within Global Markets .
Trading Account Liabilities
Trading account liabilities consist primarily of short positions in
equity and fixed-income securities including U.S. Treasury and
agency securities, corporate securities and non-U.S. sovereign
Bank of America 30
debt. Tradin g account liabilities increased $29.4  billion primarily
due to higher levels of short positions within Global Markets .
Short-term Borrowings
Short-term borrowings provide an additional funding source and
primarily consist of Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) short-term
borrowings, notes payable and various other borrowings that
generally have maturities of one year or less. Short-term
borrowings increased $4.4 billion primarily due to an increase in
short-term commercial paper issuances to manage liquidity
needs. For more information on short-term borrowings, see Note
10 – Securities Financing Agreements, Short-term Borrowings
and Restricted Cash  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Long-term Debt
Long-term debt increased $17.2 billion primarily due to debt
issuances, partially offset by maturities, redemptions and
valuation adjustments. For more information on long-term debt,
see Note 11 – Long-term Debt  to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
Shareholders’ Equity
Shareholders’  equity decreased $2.9 billion primarily due to
returns of capital to shareholders through common stock
repurchases and common and preferred stock dividends, market
value decreases on derivatives and debt securities and the
redemption of preferred stock, partially of fset by net income.
Cash Flows Overview
The Corporation’ s operating assets and liabili ties support our
global marke ts and lending activities. We believe that cash flows
from operations, available cash balances and our ability to
generate cash through short- and long-term debt are sufficient to
fund our operating liquidity needs. Our investing activities
primarily include the debt securities portfolio and loans and
leases. Our financing activities reflect cash flows primarily related
to customer deposits, securities financing agreements, long-term
debt and common and preferred stock. For more information on
liquidity , see Liquidity Risk on page 54.
Supplemental Financial Data
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In this Form 10-K, we present certain non-GAAP  financial
measures. Non-GAAP  financial measures exclude certain items
or otherwise  include components that differ from the most directly
comparable measures calculated in accordance with GAAP . Non-
GAAP  financial measures are provided as additional useful
information to assess our financial condition, results of operations
(including period-to-perio d operating performance) or compliance
with prospective regulatory requirements. These non-GAAP
financial measures are not intended as a substitute for GAAP
financial measures and may not be defined or calculated the
same way as non-GAAP  financial measures used by other
companies.
We view net interest income and related ratios and analyses
on an FTE basis, which when presented on a consolidated basis
are non-GAAP  financial measures. To derive the FTE basis, net
interest income is adjus ted to reflect tax-exempt income on an
equivalent before-tax basis with a corresponding increase in
income tax expense. For purposes of this calculation, we use the
federal statutory tax rate of 21 percent and a representative state
tax rate. Net interest yield, which measures the basis points we
earn over the cost of funds, utilizes net interest income on an
FTE basis. We believe that presentation of these items on an
FTE basis allows for comparison of amounts fromboth taxable and tax-exempt sources and is consistent with
industry practices.
We may present certain key performance indicators and
ratios exclud ing certain  items (e.g., debit valuation adjustment
(DVA) gains (losses)) which result in non-GAAP  financial
measures. We believe that the presentation of measures that
exclude these items is useful because such measures provide
additional information to assess the underlying operational
performance and trends of our businesses and to allow better
comparison of period-to-period operating performance.
We also evaluate our business based on certa in ratios that
utilize tangib le equity , a non-GAAP  financial measure. Tangible
equity represents shareholders’  equity or common shareholders’
equity reduc ed by goodwill and intangible assets (excluding
mortgage servicing rights (MSRs)), net of related deferred tax
liabilities (“adjusted” shareholders’  equity  or common
shareholders’  equity). These measures are used to evaluate our
use of equity . In addition, profitability , relationship and investment
models use both return on average tangible common
shareholders’  equity and return on average tangible
shareholders’  equity as key measures to support our overall
growth objectives. These ratios are as follows:
●    Return on average tangible common shareholders’  equity
measures our net income applicable to common shareholders
as a percen tage of adjusted average common shareholders’
equity . The tangible common equity ratio represents adjusted
ending comm on shareho lders’  equity divided by total tangible
assets.
●    Return on average tangible shareholders’  equity measures
our net income as a percentage of adjusted average total
shareholders’  equity . The tangible equity ratio represents
adjusted ending shareholders’  equity divided by total tangible
assets.
●    Tangible book value per common share represents adjusted
ending common shareholders’  equity divided by ending
common shares outstanding.
We believe ratios utilizing tangible equity provide additional
useful inform ation because they present measures of those
assets that can generate income. Tangible book value per
common share provides additional useful information about the
level of tangible assets in relation to outstanding shares of
common stock.
The aforementioned supplemental data and performance
measures are presented in Tables 6 and 7.
For more information on the reconciliation of these non-GAAP
financial measures to the corresponding GAAP  financial
measures, see Non-GAAP  Reconciliations on page 85.
Key Performance Indicators
We present certain key financial and nonfinancial performance
indicators (key performance indicators) that management uses
when assessing our consolidated and/or segment results. We
believe they are useful to investors because they provide
additional information about our underly ing operational
performance and trends. These key performance indicators
(KPIs) may not be defined or calculated in the same way as
similar KPIs used by other companies. For information on how
these metrics are defined, see Key Metrics on page 169.
Our consolidated key performance indicators, which include
various equity and credit metrics, are presented in Table 1 on
page 28, Table 6 on page 32 and Table 7 on page 33.
For informa tion on key segment performance metrics, see
Business Segment Operations on page 36.
31 Bank of America
Table 6Selected Annual Financial Data
(In millions, except per share information) 2021 2020 2019
Income statement  
Net interest income $ 42,934 $ 43,360 $ 48,891 
Noninterest income 46,179 42,168 42,353 
Total revenue, net of interest expense 89,113 85,528 91,244 
Provision for credit losses (4,594) 11,320 3,590 
Noninterest expense 59,731 55,213 54,900 
Income before income taxes 33,976 18,995 32,754 
Income tax expense 1,998 1,101 5,324 
Net income 31,978 17,894 27,430 
Net income applicable to common shareholders 30,557 16,473 25,998 
Average common shares issued and outstanding 8,493.3 8,753.2 9,390.5 
Average diluted common shares issued and outstanding 8,558.4 8,796.9 9,442.9 
Performance ratios    
Return on average assets 1.05 % 0.67 % 1.14 %
Return on average common shareholders’ equity 12.23 6.76 10.62 
Return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity 17.02 9.48 14.86 
Return on average shareholders’ equity 11.68 6.69 10.24 
Return on average tangible shareholders’ equity 15.71 9.07 13.85 
Total ending equity to total ending assets 8.52 9.68 10.88 
Total average equity to total average assets 9.02 9.96 11.14 
Dividend payout 21.51 38.18 23.65 
Per common share data    
Earnings $ 3.60 $ 1.88 $ 2.77 
Diluted earnings 3.57 1.87 2.75 
Dividends paid 0.78 0.72 0.66 
Book value 30.37 28.72 27.32 
Tangible book value 21.68 20.60 19.41 
Market capitalization $ 359,383 $ 262,206 $ 311,209 
Average balance sheet    
Total loans and leases $ 920,401 $ 982,467 $ 958,416 
Total assets 3,034,623 2,683,122 2,405,830 
Total deposits 1,914,286 1,632,998 1,380,326 
Long-term debt 237,703 220,440 201,623 
Common shareholders’ equity 249,787 243,685 244,853 
Total shareholders’ equity 273,757 267,309 267,889 
Asset quality    
Allowance for credit losses $ 13,843 $ 20,680 $ 10,229 
Nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties 4,697 5,116 3,837 
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding 1.28 % 2.04 % 0.97 %
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases 271 380 265 
Net charge-offs $ 2,243 $ 4,121 $ 3,648 
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding 0.25 % 0.42 % 0.38 %
Capital ratios at year end    
Common equity tier 1 capital 10.6 % 11.9 % 11.2 %
Tier 1 capital 12.1 13.5 12.6 
Total capital 14.1 16.1 14.7 
Tier 1 leverage 6.4 7.4 7.9 
Supplementary leverage ratio 5.5 7.2 6.4 
Tangible equity 6.4 7.4 8.2 
Tangible common equity 5.7 6.5 7.3 
For definition, see Key Metrics on page 169.
Tangible equity ratios and tangible book value per share of common stock are non-GAAP  financial measures. For more information on these ratios and corresponding reconciliations to GAAP
financial measures, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 31 and Non-GAAP  Reconciliations on page 85.
Includes the allowance for loan and leases losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments.
Balances and ratios do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option. For additional exclusions from nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties, see Consumer Portfolio
Credit Risk Management – Nonperforming Consumer Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity on page 64 and corresponding Table 27 and Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management –
Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity on page 68 and corresponding Table 34.
For more information, including which approach is used to assess capital adequacy , see Capital Management on page 49.(1)
(1)
(1, 2)
(1)
(1, 2)
(1)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(4)
(4)
(4)
(5)
(2)
(2)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
Bank of America 32
Table 7Selected Quarterly Financial Data
2021 Quarters 2020 Quarters
(In millions, except per share information) Fourth Third Second First Fourth Third Second First
Income statement    
Net interest income $ 11,410  $ 11,094 $ 10,233 $ 10,197 $ 10,253 $ 10,129 $ 10,848 $ 12,130 
Noninterest income 10,650  11,672 11,233 12,624 9,846 10,207 11,478 10,637 
Total revenue, net of interest expense 22,060  22,766 21,466 22,821 20,099 20,336 22,326 22,767 
Provision for credit losses (489) (624) (1,621) (1,860) 53 1,389 5,117 4,761 
Noninterest expense 14,731  14,440 15,045 15,515 13,927 14,401 13,410 13,475 
Income before income taxes 7,818  8,950 8,042 9,166 6,119 4,546 3,799 4,531 
Income tax expense 805 1,259 (1,182) 1,116 649 (335) 266 521 
Net income 7,013  7,691 9,224 8,050 5,470 4,881 3,533 4,010 
Net income applicable to common shareholders 6,773  7,260 8,964 7,560 5,208 4,440 3,284 3,541 
Average common shares issued and outstanding 8,226.5  8,430.7 8,620.8 8,700.1 8,724.9 8,732.9 8,739.9 8,815.6 
Average diluted common shares issued and
outstanding 8,304.7  8,492.8 8,735.5 8,755.6 8,785.0 8,777.5 8,768.1 8,862.7 
Performance ratios       
Return on average assets 0.88 % 0.99 % 1.23 % 1.13 % 0.78 % 0.71 % 0.53 % 0.65 %
Four-quarter trailing return on average assets 1.05 1.04 0.97 0.79 0.67 0.75 0.81 0.99 
Return on average common shareholders’  equity 10.90  11.43 14.33 12.28 8.39 7.24 5.44 5.91 
Return on average tangible common shareholders’
equity 15.25  15.85 19.90 17.08 11.73 10.16 7.63 8.32 
Return on average shareholders’  equity 10.27  11.08 13.47 11.91 8.03 7.26 5.34 6.10 
Return on average tangible shareholders’  equity 13.87  14.87 18.11 16.01 10.84 9.84 7.23 8.29 
Total ending equity to total ending assets 8.52 8.83 9.15 9.23 9.68 9.82 9.69 10.11 
Total average equity to total average assets 8.56 8.95 9.11 9.52 9.71 9.76 9.85 10.60 
Dividend payout 25.33  24.10 17.25 20.68 30.11 35.36 47.87 44.57 
Per common share data       
Earnings $ 0.82 $ 0.86 $ 1.04 $ 0.87 $ 0.60 $ 0.51 $ 0.38 $ 0.40 
Diluted earnings 0.82 0.85 1.03 0.86 0.59 0.51 0.37 0.40 
Dividends paid 0.21 0.21 0.18 0.18 0.18 0.18 0.18 0.18 
Book value 30.37  30.22 29.89 29.07 28.72 28.33 27.96 27.84 
Tangible book value 21.68  21.69 21.61 20.90 20.60 20.23 19.90 19.79 
Market capitalization $ 359,383  $ 349,841 $ 349,925 $ 332,337 $ 262,206 $208,656 $ 205,772 $184,181 
Average balance sheet       
Total loans and leases $ 945,062  $ 920,509 $ 907,900 $ 907.723 $ 934,798 $974,018 $1,031,387 $990,283 
Total assets 3,164,118  3,076,452 3,015,113 2,879.221 2,791,874 2,739,684 2,704,186 2,494,928 
Total deposits 2,017,223  1,942,705 1,888,834 1,805.747 1,737,139 1,695,488 1,658,197 1,439,336 
Long-term debt 248,525  248,988 232,034 220.836 225,423 224,254 221,167 210,816 
Common shareholders’  equity 246,519  252,043 250,948 249,648 246,840 243,896 242,889 241,078 
Total shareholders’  equity 270,883  275,484 274,632 274,047 271,020 267,323 266,316 264,534 
Asset quality      
Allowance for credit losses $ 13,843  $ 14,693 $ 15,782 $ 17,997 $ 20,680 $ 21,506 $ 21,091 $ 17,126 
Nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed
properties 4,697  4,831 5,031 5,299 5,116 4,730 4,611 4,331 
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage
of total loans and leases outstanding 1.28 % 1.43 % 1.55 % 1.80 % 2.04 % 2.07 % 1.96 % 1.51 %
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage
of total nonperforming loans and leases 271 279 287 313 380 431 441 389 
Net charge-of fs $ 362 $ 463 $ 595 $ 823 $ 881 $ 972 $ 1,146 $ 1,122 
Annualized net charge-of fs as a percentage of
average loans and leases outstanding 0.15 % 0.20 % 0.27 % 0.37 % 0.38 % 0.40 % 0.45 % 0.46 %
Capital ratios at period end      
Common equity tier 1 capital 10.6 % 11.1 % 11.5 % 11.8 % 11.9 % 11.9 % 11.4 % 10.8 %
Tier 1 capital 12.1 12.6 13.0 13.3 13.5 13.5 12.9 12.3 
Total capital 14.1 14.7 15.1 15.6 16.1 16.1 14.8 14.6 
Tier 1 leverage 6.4 6.6 6.9 7.2 7.4 7.4 7.4 7.9 
Supplementary leverage ratio 5.5 5.6 5.9 7.0 7.2 6.9 7.1 6.4 
Tangible equity 6.4 6.7 7.0 7.0 7.4 7.4 7.3 7.7 
Tangible common equity 5.7 5.9 6.2 6.2 6.5 6.6 6.5 6.7 
Total loss-absorbing capacity and long-term debt
metrics
Total loss-absorbing capacity to risk-weighted assets 26.9 % 27.7 % 27.7 % 26.8 % 27.4 % 26.9 % 26.0 % 24.6 %
Total loss-absorbing capacity to supplementary
leverage exposure 12.1 12.4 12.5 14.1 14.5 13.7 14.2 12.8 
Eligible long-term debt to risk-weighted assets 14.1 14.4 14.1 13.0 13.3 12.9 12.4 11.6 
Eligible long-term debt to supplementary leverage
exposure 6.3 6.4 6.3 6.8 7.1 6.6 6.7 6.1 
For definitions, see Key Metrics on page 169.
Calculated as total net income for four consecutive quarters divided by annualized average assets for four consecutive quarters.
Tangible equity ratios and tangible book value per share of common stock are non-GAAP  financial measures. For more information on these ratios and corresponding reconciliations to GAAP
financial measures, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 31 and Non-GAAP  Reconciliations on page 85.
Includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments.
Balances and ratios do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option. For additional exclusions from nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties, see Consumer Portfolio
Credit Risk Management – Nonperforming Consumer Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity on page 64 and corresponding Table 27 and Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management –
Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity on page 68 and corresponding Table 34.
For more information, including which approach is used to assess capital adequacy , see Capital Management on page 49.(1)
 (2)
(1)
 (3)
(1)
 (3)
(1)
(1)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(5)
(5)
(5)
(6)
 (3)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
33 Bank of America
Table 8Average Balances and Interest Rates - FTE
Basis
Average
BalanceInterest
Income/
Expense Yield/
RateAverage
BalanceInterest
Income/
ExpenseYield/
RateAverage
BalanceInterest
Income/
ExpenseYield/
Rate
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Earning assets          
Interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve,
non-
   U.S. central banks and other banks $ 255,595  $ 172 0.07 % $ 253,227 $ 359 0.14 % $ 125,555 $ 1,823 1.45 %
Time deposits placed and other short-term
investments 7,603  15 0.19 8,840 29 0.33 9,427 207 2.19 
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or
purchased
   under agreements to resell 267,257  (90) (0.03) 309,945 903 0.29 279,610 4,843 1.73 
Trading account assets 147,891  3,823  2.58 148,076 4,185 2.83 148,076 5,269 3.56 
Debt securities 905,169  12,433  1.38 532,266 9,868 1.87 450,090 11,917 2.65 
Loans and leases          
Residential mortgage 216,983  5,995  2.76 236,719 7,338 3.10 220,552 7,651 3.47 
Home equity 31,014  1,066  3.44 38,251 1,290 3.37 44,600 2,194 4.92 
Credit card 75,385  7,772  10.31  85,017 8,759 10.30 94,488 10,166 10.76 
Direct/Indirect and other consumer 96,472  2,276  2.36 89,974 2,545 2.83 90,656 3,261 3.60 
Total consumer 419,854  17,109  4.08 449,961 19,932 4.43 450,296 23,272 5.17 
U.S. commercial 324,795  8,606  2.65 344,095 9,712 2.82 321,467 13,161 4.09 
Non-U.S. commercial 99,584  1,752  1.76 106,487 2,208 2.07 103,918 3,402 3.27 
Commercial real estate 60,303  1,496  2.48 63,428 1,790 2.82 62,044 2,741 4.42 
Commercial lease financing 15,865  462 2.91 18,496 559 3.02 20,691 718 3.47 
Total commercial 500,547  12,316  2.46 532,506 14,269 2.68 508,120 20,022 3.94 
Total loans and leases 920,401  29,425  3.20 982,467 34,201 3.48 958,416 43,294 4.52 
Other earning assets 112,512  2,321  2.06 83,078 2,539 3.06 69,089 4,478 6.48 
Total earning assets 2,616,428  48,099  1.84 2,317,899 52,084 2.25 2,040,263 71,831 3.52 
Cash and due from banks 31,214   31,885  26,193  
Other assets, less allowance for loan and lease losses 386,981    333,338   339,374   
Total assets $3,034,623    $2,683,122   $2,405,830   
Interest-bearing liabilities          
U.S. interest-bearing deposits          
Demand and money market deposits $ 925,970  $ 314 0.03 % $ 829,719 $ 977 0.12 % $ 741,126 $ 4,471 0.60 %
Time and savings deposits 161,512  170 0.11 170,750 734 0.43 166,463 1,883 1.13 
Total U.S. interest-bearing deposits 1,087,482  484 0.04 1,000,469 1,711 0.17 907,589 6,354 0.70 
Non-U.S. interest-bearing deposits 82,769  53 0.06 77,046 232 0.30 71,468 834 1.17 
Total interest-bearing deposits 1,170,251  537 0.05 1,077,515 1,943 0.18 979,057 7,188 0.73 
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold
   under agreements to repurchase 210,848  461 0.22 188,511 1,229 0.65 198,533 4,404 2.22 
Short-term borrowings and other interest bearing
   liabilities 106,975  (819) (0.77) 104,955 (242) (0.23) 77,899 2,804 3.60 
Trading account liabilities 54,107  1,128  2.08 41,386 974 2.35 45,449 1,249 2.75 
Long-term debt 237,703  3,431  1.44 220,440 4,321 1.96 201,623 6,700 3.32 
Total interest-bearing liabilities 1,779,884  4,738  0.27 1,632,807 8,225 0.50 1,502,561 22,345 1.49 
Noninterest-bearing sources          
Noninterest-bearing deposits 744,035    555,483   401,269   
Other liabilities 236,947    227,523   234,111   
Shareholders’  equity 273,757    267,309   267,889   
Total liabilities and shareholders’  equity $3,034,623    $2,683,122   $2,405,830   
Net interest spread   1.57 %   1.75 %   2.03 %
Impact of noninterest-bearing sources   0.09   0.15   0.40 
Net interest income/yield on earning assets  $ 43,361  1.66 %  $ 43,859 1.90 %  $ 49,486 2.43 %
Includes the impact of interest rate risk management contracts. For more information, see Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book on page 79.
For more information on negative interest, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Nonperforming loans are included in the respective average loan balances. Income on these nonperforming loans is generally recognized on a cost recovery basis.
Includes U.S. commercial real estate  loans of $56.5 billion, $59.8 billion and $57.3 billion, and non-U.S. commercial real estate loans of $3.8 billion, $3.6 billion and $4.7 billion for 2021, 2020 and
2019, respectively .
Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
Includes $30.4 billion, $34.3 billion and $35.5 billion of structured notes and liabilities for 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively .
Net interest income includes FTE adjustments of $427 million, $499 million and $595 million for 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively .(1)  (1)  (1)
 (2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(2,5)
(6)
(7)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
Bank of America 34
Table 9Analysis of Changes in Net Interest Income - FTE Basis
Due to Change in 
Net ChangeDue to Change in 
Net Change Volume Rate Volume Rate
(Dollars in millions) From 2020 to 2021 From 2019 to 2020
Increase (decrease) in interest income
Interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve, non-U.S. central banks and other
banks $ (1)$ (186)$ (187)$ 1,849 $(3,313)$ (1,464)
Time deposits placed and other short-term investments (4) (10) (14) (13) (165) (178)
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell (128) (865) (993) 519 (4,459) (3,940)
Trading account assets — (362) (362) 3 (1,087) (1,084)
Debt securities 7,059 (4,494) 2,565 2,188 (4,237) (2,049)
Loans and leases
Residential mortgage (612) (731) (1,343) 563 (876) (313)
Home equity (245) 21 (224) (312) (592) (904)
Credit card (994) 7 (987) (1,018) (389) (1,407)
Direct/Indirect and other consumer 185 (454) (269) (22) (694) (716)
Total consumer (2,823) (3,340)
U.S. commercial (553) (553) (1,106) 912 (4,361) (3,449)
Non-U.S. commercial (147) (309) (456) 80 (1,274) (1,194)
Commercial real estate (89) (205) (294) 63 (1,014) (951)
Commercial lease financing (80) (17) (97) (76) (83) (159)
Total commercial (1,953) (5,753)
Total loans and leases (4,776) (9,093)
Other earning assets 904 (1,122) (218) 905 (2,844) (1,939)
Net decrease in interest income $ (3,985) $ (19,747)
Increase (decrease) in interest expense
U.S. interest-bearing deposits
Demand and money market deposit accounts $ 134 $ (797)$ (663)$ 507 $(4,001)$ (3,494)
Time and savings deposits (39) (525) (564) 46 (1,195) (1,149)
Total U.S. interest-bearing deposits (1,227) (4,643)
Non-U.S. interest-bearing deposits 16 (195) (179) 67 (669) (602)
Total interest-bearing deposits (1,406) (5,245)
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to
   repurchase 142 (910) (768) (219) (2,956) (3,175)
Short-term borrowings and other interest bearing liabilities (4) (573) (577) 974 (4,020) (3,046)
Trading account liabilities 298 (144) 154 (111) (164) (275)
Long-term debt 338 (1,228) (890) 619 (2,998) (2,379)
Net decrease in interest expense (3,487) (14,120)
Net decrease in net interest income $ (498) $ (5,627)
The chan ges for each category of interest income and expense are divided between the portion of change attributable to the variance in volume and the portion of change attributable to the variance
in rate for that category . The unallocated change in rate or volume variance is allocated between the rate and volume variances.
Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-period presentation.
Includes changes in FTE basis adjustments of a $72 million decrease from 2020 to 2021 and a $96 million decrease from 2019 to 2020.(1) (1)
(2)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
35 Bank of America
Business Segment Operations
Segment Description and Basis of Presentation
We report our results of operations through the following four business segments: Consumer Banking, GWIM, Global Banking and
Global Markets , with the remaining operations recorded in All Other. We manag e our segments and report their results on an FTE
basis. The primary activities, products and businesses of the business segments and All Other  are shown below .
We periodically review capital allocated to our businesses and
allocate capital annually during the strategic and capital planning
processes. We utilize a methodology that consid ers the effect of
regulatory capital requirements in addition to internal risk-based
capital mode ls. Our internal risk-based capital models use a risk-
adjusted methodology incorporating each segment’ s credit,
market, interest rate, business and operational risk components.
For more information on the nature of these risks, see Managing
Risk on page 46. The capital allocated to the business segments
is referred to as allocated capital. Allocated equity in the reporting
units is comprised of allocated capital plus capit al for the portion
of goodwill and intangibles specifically assigned to the reporting
unit. For more information, including the definition of a reporting
unit, see Note 7 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets  to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
For information on our presentation of financial information on
an FTE basis, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 31,and for reconciliations to consolidated total revenue, net income
and year-end total assets, see Note 23 – Business Segment
Information  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Effective October 1, 2021, a business activity previously
included in Global Mark ets is being reported as a liquidating
business in All Other , consistent with a realignment in
performance reporting to senior management. The activity was
not material to Global Markets’  results of operations and
historical results have not been restated. For more information,
see Note 23 – Business Segment Information to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Key Performance Indicators
We present certain key financial and nonfinancial performance
indicators that management uses when evaluating segment
results. We believe they are useful to investors because they
provide additional inform ation about our segm ents’ operational
performance, customer trends and business growth.
Bank of America 36
Consumer Banking
Deposits Consumer Lending Total Consumer Banking
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020 % Change
Net interest income $ 14,358 $ 13,739 $ 10,571 $ 10,959 $ 24,929 $ 24,698 1 %
Noninterest income:
Card income (28) (20) 5,200 4,693 5,172 4,673 11 
Service charges 3,535 3,416 3 1 3,538 3,417 4 
All other income 223 310 143 164 366 474 (23)
Total noninterest income 3,730 3,706 5,346 4,858 9,076 8,564 6 
Total revenue, net of interest expense 18,088 17,445 15,917 15,817 34,005 33,262 2 
Provision for credit losses 240 379 (1,275) 5,386 (1,035) 5,765 (118)
Noninterest expense 11,650 11,508 7,640 7,374 19,290 18,882 2 
Income before income taxes 6,198 5,558 9,552 3,057 15,750 8,615 83 
Income tax expense 1,519 1,362 2,340 749 3,859 2,111 83 
Net income $ 4,679 $ 4,196 $ 7,212 $ 2,308 $ 11,891 $ 6,504 83 
Effective tax rate 24.5 % 24.5 %
Net interest yield 1.48 % 1.69 % 3.77 % 3.53 % 2.45 2.88 
Return on average allocated capital 39 35 27 9 31 17 
Efficiency ratio 64.41 65.97 48.00 46.62 56.73 56.77 
Balance Sheet
Average
Total loans and leases $ 4,431 $ 5,144 $ 279,630 $ 310,436 $ 284,061 $ 315,580 (10)%
Total earning assets 973,018 813,779 280,080 310,862 1,016,751 858,724 18 
Total assets 1,009,387 849,924 285,532 314,599 1,058,572 898,606 18 
Total deposits 976,093 816,968 6,934 6,698 983,027 823,666 19 
Allocated capital 12,000 12,000 26,500 26,500 38,500 38,500 — 
Year end
Total loans and leases $ 4,206 $ 4,673 $ 282,305 $ 295,261 $ 286,511 $ 299,934 (4)%
Total earning assets 1,048,009 899,951 282,850 295,627 1,090,331 945,343 15 
Total assets 1,082,449 939,629 289,220 299,185 1,131,142 988,580 14 
Total deposits 1,049,085 906,092 5,910 6,560 1,054,995 912,652 16 
Estimated at the segment level only .
In segments and businesses where the total of liabilities and equity exce eds assets, we allocate assets from All Other to match  the segments’  and businesses’  liabilities and allocated shareh olders’
equity . As a result, total earning assets and total assets of the businesses may not equal total Consumer Banking .
Consumer Banking,  comprised of Depos its and Consumer
Lending, offers a diversified range of credit, banking and
investment products and services to consumers and small
businesses. Deposits and Consumer Lending include the net
impact of migrating customers and their related deposit,
brokerage asset and loan balances between Deposits, Consumer
Lending and GWIM , as well as other client-managed businesses.
Our customers and clients have access to a coast-to-coast
network including financial centers in 38 states and the District of
Columbia. As of December 31, 2021, our network includes
approximately 4,200 financial centers, approximately 16,000
ATMs, nationwide call centers and leading digital banking
platforms with more than 41 million active users, including
approximately 33 million active mobile users .
Consumer Banking Results
Net income for Consumer Banking  increased $5.4 billion to $11.9
billion prima rily due to improvement in the provision for credit
losses and higher revenue, partially offset by higher noninterest
expense. Net interest income increased $231 million to $24.9
billion primarily due to the benefit of higherdeposit balances and the acceleration of net capitalized loan fees
due to PPP loan forgiv eness, partially offset by lower interest
rates and loan balances. Noninterest income increased $512
million to $9.1 billion primarily driven by higher card income and
service charges due to increased client activity , partially offset by
the allocation of asset and liability management (ALM) results.
The provision for credit losses improved $6.8 billion to a
benefit of $1.0 billion primarily driven by reserve  releases due to
improvements in the macroeconomic outlook and credit quality .
Noninterest expense increased $408 million to $19.3 billion
primarily driven by an impairment charge for real estate
rationalization, the contribution to the Bank of America
Foundation, cost of increased client activity and continued
investments for business growth, including the merchant services
platform, partially of fset by lower COVID-19 related costs.
The return on average allocated capital was 31 percent, up
from 17 percent, driven by higher net income. For more
information on capital allocated to the business segments, see
Business Segment Operations on page 36.(1)
 (2)
(2)
(2)
 (2)
(1)
(2)
37 Bank of America
Deposits
Deposits includes the results of consumer deposit activities that
consist of a comprehensive range of products provided to
consumers and small businesses. Our deposit products include
noninterest- and interest-bearing checking accounts, money
market savings accounts, traditional savings accounts, CDs and
IRAs, as well as investment accounts and produ cts. Net interest
income is allocated to the deposit products using our funds
transfer pricing process that matches assets and liabilities with
similar interest rate sensitivity and maturity characteristics.
Deposits generates fees such as account service fees, non-
sufficient funds fees, overdraft charges and ATM fees, as well as
investment and brokerage fees from Consumer Investment
accounts. Consumer Investments serves investment client
relationships through the Merrill Edge integrate d investing and
banking service platform, providing investm ent advice and
guidance, client brokera ge asset services, self-directed online
investing and key banking capabilities including access to the
Corporation’ s network of financial centers and ATMs.
Net income for Deposits  increased $483 million to $4.7 billion
due to higher revenue and lower provision for credit losses,
partially offset by higher noninterest expense. Net interest
income increased $619 million to $14.4 billion primarily due to the
benefit of higher deposit balances. Noninterest income increased
$24 million to $3.7 billion primarily driven by higher service
charges and investment and brokerage fees, largely offset by the
allocation of ALM results.
The provision for credit losses decreased $139 million to $240
million due to an improved macroeconomic outlook. Noninterest
expense increased $142 million to $11.7 billion primarily driven
by an impairment charg e for real estate rationalization, and the
cost of increased client activity and continued investments for
business growth, partially offset by lower COVID-19 related
costs.
Average deposits increased $159.1 billion to $976.1 billion
primarily due to net inflows of $90.4 billion in checking and time
deposits and $68.0 billion in traditional savings and money
market savings driven by strong organic growth and government
stimulus measures.The table below provides key performance indicators for
Deposits. Management uses these metrics, and we believe they
are useful to investors because they provide additional
information to evaluate our deposit profitability and digital/mobile
trends.
Key Statistics – Deposits
2021 2020
Total deposit spreads (excludes noninterest costs)1.69% 1.94%
Year End
Consumer investment assets (in millions) $368,831 $306,104
Active digital banking users (in thousands) 41,365 39,315
Active mobile banking users (in thousands) 32,980 30,783
Financial centers 4,173 4,312
ATMs 16,209 16,904
Includes deposits held in Consumer Lending.
Includes client brokerage assets, deposit sweep balances and AUM in Consumer Banking .
Represents mobile and/or online active users over the past 90 days.
Represents mobile active users over the past 90 days.
Consumer investment assets increased $62.7 billion to
$368.8 billion driven by market performance and client flows.
Active mobile banking users increased approximately two million,
reflecting continuing changes in our customers’  banking
preferences. We had a net decrease of 139 financial centers as
we continue to optimize our consumer banking network.
Consumer Lending
Consumer Lending offers products to consumers and small
businesses across the U.S. The products offered include debit
and credit cards, residential mortgages and home equity loans,
and direct and indirect loans such as automotive, recreational
vehicle and consumer personal loans. In additio n to earning net
interest spread revenue on its lending activities, Consumer
Lending generates interchange revenue from debit and credit
card transactions, late fees, cash advance fees, annual credit
card fees, mortgage banking fee income and other miscellaneous
fees. Consumer Lending products are available to our customers
through our retail network, direct telephone, and online and
mobile chan nels. Cons umer Lending results also include the
impact of servicing residential mortgages and home equity loans,
including loans held on the balance sheet of Consumer Lending
and loans serviced for others.(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Bank of America 38
Net income for Consumer Lending was $7.2 billion, an
increase of $4.9 billion, primarily due to improvement in the
provision for credit losses. Net interest income declined $388
million to $10.6 billion primarily due to lower interest rates and
loan balances. Noninterest income increased $488 million to $5.3
billion primarily driven by higher card income due to increased
client activity .
The provisio n for credit losses improved $6.7 billion to a
benefit of $1.3 billion primarily driven by reserve  releases due to
improvements in the macroeconomic outlook and credit quality .
Noninterest expense increased $266 million to $7.6 billion
primarily driven by continued investments for business growth,
partially of fset by lower COVID-19 related costs.
Average loans decreased $30.8 billion to $279.6 billion
primarily driven by a decline in residential mortgage and credit
card loans.
The table below provides key performance indicators for
Consumer Lending. Management uses these metrics, and we
believe they are useful to investors because they provide
additional information about loan growth and profitability .
Key Statistics – Consumer Lending
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Total credit card 
Gross interest yield 10.17 % 10.27 %
Risk-adjusted margin 10.17 9.16 
New accounts (in thousands) 3,594 2,505 
Purchase volumes $ 311,571 $ 251,599 
Debit card purchase volumes $ 473,770 $ 384,503 
Includes GWIM's  credit card portfolio.
Calculated as the ef fective annual percentage rate divided by average loans.
Calculated as the difference betwee n total revenue, net of interest expense, and net credit
losses divided by average loans.During 2021, the total risk-adjusted margin increased 101 bps
primarily driven by lower net credit losses, highe r fee income and
higher net interest margin. Total credit card purchase volumes
increased $60.0 billion to $311.6 billion as spending continued to
recover , with improvements across all catego ries. Debit card
purchase volumes increased $89.3 billion to $473.8 billion due to
continued retail growth from the pandemic recovery, as well as
the impact of government stimulus measures, and tax refunds.
Key Statistics – Loan Production 
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Consumer Banking:
First mortgage $ 45,976 $ 43,197 
Home equity 3,996 6,930 
Total :
First mortgage $ 79,692 $ 69,086 
Home equity 4,895 8,160 
The loan productio n amounts represent the unpaid principal balance of loans and, in the case
of home equity , the principal amount of the total line of credit.
In addition to loan production in Consumer Banking , there is also first mortgage and home
equity loan production in GWIM.
First mortgage loan originations for Consumer Banking  and
the total Corporation increased $2.8 billion and $10.6 billion
during 2021 primarily driven by higher demand.
Home equity production in Consumer Banking and the total
Corporation  decreased $2.9 billion and $3.3 billion during 2021
primarily driven by lower demand due to increased borrower
liquidity .(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
39 Bank of America
Global W ealth & Investment Management
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 % Change
Net interest income $ 5,664 $ 5,468 4 %
Noninterest income:
Investment and brokerage services 14,312 12,270 17 
All other income 772 846 (9)
Total noninterest income 15,084 13,116 15 
Total revenue, net of interest expense 20,748 18,584 12 
Provision for credit losses (241) 357 n/m
Noninterest expense 15,258 14,160 8 
Income before income taxes 5,731 4,067 41 
Income tax expense 1,404 996 41 
Net income $ 4,327 $ 3,071 41 
Effective tax rate 24.5 % 24.5 %
Net interest yield 1.51 1.73 
Return on average allocated capital 26 21 
Efficiency ratio 73.54 76.19 
Balance Sheet
Average
Total loans and leases $ 196,899 $ 183,402 7 %
Total earning assets 374,273 316,008 18 
Total assets 386,918 328,384 18 
Total deposits 340,124 287,123 18 
Allocated capital 16,500 15,000 10 
Year end
Total loans and leases $ 208,971 $ 188,562 11 %
Total earning assets 425,112 356,873 19 
Total assets 438,275 369,736 19 
Total deposits 390,143 322,157 21 
n/m = not meaningful
GWIM  cons ists of two primary businesses: Merrill Wealth
Management (MWM) and  Bank of America Private Bank.
MWM's advisory business provides a high-touch client
experience through a network of financial advisors focused on
clients with over $250,000 in total investable assets. MWM
provides tailored solutions to meet clients' needs through a full
set of investment management, brokerage , banking and
retirement products.
Bank of America Private Bank, together with MWM's Private
Wealth Management business, provides comprehensive wealth
management solutions targeted to high net worth and ultra high
net worth clients, as well as customized solutions to meet clients'
wealth struc turing, investment management, trust and banking
needs, including specialty asset management services.
Net income for GWIM  incre ased $1.3 billion to $4.3 billion
driven by higher revenue and improvement in the provision for
credit losses, partially offset by higher noninterest expense. The
operating margin was 28 percent compared to 22 percent a year
ago.
Net interest income increased $196 million to $5.7 billion due
to the benefits of loan and deposit growth, partially offset by
lower interest rates.
Noninterest income, which primarily includes investment and
brokerage services income, increased $2.0 billion to $15.1billion primarily due to higher market valuations and positive AUM
flows, partially of fset by declines in AUM pricing.
The provisio n for credit losses improved $598  million to a
benefit of $241 million primarily due to improvements in the
macroeconomic outlook  and credit quality . Noninterest expense
increased $1.1 billion to $15.3 billion primarily driven by higher
revenue-related incentives.
The return on average allocated capital was 26 percent, up
from 21 percent, due to higher net income, partially offset by an
increase in allocated capital. For more information on capital
allocated to the business segments, see Business Segment
Operations on page 36.
Average loans increased $13.5 billion to $196.9 billion
primarily driven by secu rities-based lending, custom lending and
residential mortgage. Average deposits increased $53.0 billion to
$340.1 billion primarily driven by inflows from new accounts and
client responses to market volatility .
MWM revenue of $17.4 billion increased 14 percent primarily
driven by the benefits of higher market valuations, positive AUM
flows and loan and deposit growth.
Bank of America Private Bank revenue of $3.3 billion
remained relatively flat with the benefits of higher market
valuations, AUM flows, and loan and deposit growth mostly offset
by the realignment of certain business results to MWM.
Bank of America 40
Key Indicators and Metrics
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Revenue by Business
Merrill Wealth Management $ 17,448 $ 15,292 
Bank of America Private Bank 3,300 3,292 
Total revenue, net of interest expense $ 20,748 $ 18,584 
Client Balances by Business, at period end
Merrill Wealth Management $ 3,214,881 $ 2,808,340 
Bank of America Private Bank 625,453 541,464 
Total client balances $ 3,840,334 $ 3,349,804 
Client Balances by Type, at period end
Assets under management $ 1,638,782 $ 1,408,465 
Brokerage and other assets 1,655,021 1,479,614 
Deposits 390,143 322,157 
Loans and leases 212,251 191,124 
Less: Managed deposits in assets under management (55,863) (51,556)
Total client balances $ 3,840,334 $ 3,349,804 
Assets Under Management Rollforward
Assets under management, beginning of period $ 1,408,465 $ 1,275,555 
Net client flows 66,250 19,596 
Market valuation/other 164,067 113,314 
Total assets under management, end of period $ 1,638,782 $ 1,408,465 
Total wealth advisors, at period end 18,846 20,103 
Includes margin receivables which are classified in customer and other receivables on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Includes advisors across all wealth management businesses in GWIM  and Consumer Banking. Prior period has been revised to conform to current-period presentation.
Client Balances
Client balances managed under advisory and/or discretion of
GWIM  are AUM and are typically held in diversified portfolios.
Fees earned  on AUM are calculated as a percentage of clients’
AUM balances. The asset management fees charged to clients
per year depend on various factors, but are commonly driven by
the breadth of the client’ s relationship. The net client AUM flowsrepresent the net change in clients’  AUM balances over a
specified period of time, exclu ding market
appreciation/depreciation and other adjustments.
Client balances increased $490.5 billion, or 15 percent, to
$3.8 trillion at December 31, 2021 compared to December 31,
2020. The increase in client balances was primarily due to higher
market valuations and positive client flows.(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
41 Bank of America
Global Banking
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 % Change
Net interest income $ 8,511 $ 9,013 (6)%
Noninterest income:
Service charges 3,523 3,238 9 
Investment banking fees 5,107 4,010 27 
All other income 3,734 2,726 37 
Total noninterest income 12,364 9,974 24 
Total revenue, net of interest expense 20,875 18,987 10 
Provision for credit losses (3,201) 4,897 n/m
Noninterest expense 10,632 9,342 14 
Income before income taxes 13,444 4,748 n/m
Income tax expense 3,630 1,282 n/m
Net income $ 9,814 $ 3,466 n/m
Effective tax rate 27.0 % 27.0 %
Net interest yield 1.55 1.86 
Return on average allocated capital 23 8 
Efficiency ratio 50.93 49.20 
Balance Sheet
Average
Total loans and leases $ 329,655 $ 382,264 (14)%
Total earning assets 549,749 485,688 13 
Total assets 611,304 542,302 13 
Total deposits 522,790 456,562 15 
Allocated capital 42,500 42,500 — 
Year end
Total loans and leases $ 352,933 $ 339,649 4 %
Total earning assets 574,583 522,650 10 
Total assets 638,131 580,561 10 
Total deposits 551,752 493,748 12 
n/m = not meaningful
Global Banking , which includes Global Corporate Banking,
Global Commercial Banking, Business Banking and Global
Investment Banking, provides a wide range of lending-related
products and services, integrated working capital management
and treasury solutions, and underwriting and advisory services
through our network of offices and client relation ship teams. Our
lending products and services include commercial loans, leases,
commitment facilities, trade finance, commercial real estate
lending and asset-based  lending. Our treasury solutions business
includes treasury management, foreign exchange, short-term
investing options and merchant services. We also provide
investment banking products to our clients such as debt and
equity underwriting and distribution, and merger-related and
other advisory services. Underwriting debt and equity issuances,
fixed-income and equity research, and certain market-based
activities are executed through our global broker-dealer affiliates,
which are our primary dealers in several countries. Within Global
Banking , Global Corporate Banking clients generally include
large global corporations , financial institutions and leasing clients.
Global Commercial Banking clients generally include middle-
market companies, commercial real estate firms and not-for-profit
companies. Business Banking clients include mid-sized U.S.-
based busin esses requi ring customized and integrated financial
advice and solutions.
Net income for Global Bank ing increa sed $6.3 billion to $9.8
billion driven  by improvement in the provision for credit losses
and higher revenue, partially offset by higher noninterest
expense.
Net interest income decreased $502 million to $8.5 billionprimarily due to the impact of lower average loan balances and
deposit spreads, partially offset by the benefits of higher deposit
balances and credit spreads.
Noninterest income increased $2.4 billion to $12.4 billion
driven by higher investm ent banking fees, higher  valuation-driven
adjustments on the fair value loan portfolio, debt securities and
leveraged loans, higher income from ESG investment activities,
as well as higher treasury and credit service charges.
The provision for credit losses improved $8.1 billion to a
benefit of $3.2 billion primarily driven by reserve  releases due to
improvements in the macroeconomic outlook and credit quality .
Noninterest expense increased $1.3 billion to $10.6 billion,
primarily due to higher  revenue-related incentives and higher
operating costs.
The return on average allocated capital was 23 percent, up
from eight percent, due to higher net income. For more
information on capital allocated to the business segments, see
Business Segment Operations on page 36.
Global Corporate, Global Commercial and
Business Banking
Global Corporate, Global Commercial and Business Banking
each include  Business Lending and Global Transaction Services
activities. Business Lending includes various  lending-related
products and services, and related hedging activities, including
commercial loans, leases, commitment facilitie s, trade finance,
real estate lending and asset-based lending. Global Transaction
Services includes depo sits, treasury management, credit card,
foreign exchange and short-term investment products.
Bank of America 42
The table below and following discussion present a summary of the results, which exclude certain investment banking, merchant
services and PPP  activities in Global Banking.
Global Corporate, Global Commercial and Business
Banking
Global Corporate Banking Global Commercial Banking Business Banking Total
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020
Revenue
Business Lending $ 3,725 $ 3,552 $ 3,676 $ 3,743 $ 225 $ 261 $ 7,626 $ 7,556 
Global Transaction Services 3,127 2,986 3,209 3,169 889 893 7,225 7,048 
Total revenue, net of interest
expense $ 6,852 $ 6,538 $ 6,885 $ 6,912 $ 1,114 $ 1,154 $ 14,851 $ 14,604 
Balance Sheet
Average
Total loans and leases $ 150,159 $ 179,393 $ 161,012 $ 182,212 $ 12,763 $ 14,410 $ 323,934 $ 376,015 
Total deposits 251,303 216,371 213,708 191,813 56,321 48,214 521,332 456,398 
Year end
Total loans and leases $ 163,027 $ 153,126 $ 175,228 $ 164,641 $ 12,822 $ 13,242 $ 351,077 $ 331,009 
Total deposits 259,160 233,484 232,670 207,597 57,848 52,150 549,678 493,231 
Business Lending revenue increased $70 million in 2021
compared to 2020 primarily due to higher credit spreads and
income from ESG investment activities, partially offset by the
impact of lower average loan balances.
Global Transaction Services revenue increased $177 million
in 2021 compared to 2020 driven by the benefit of higher deposit
balances and treasury service charges, partially offset by lower
deposit spreads.
Average loans and leases decreased 14 percent in 2021
compared to 2020 driven by client paydowns and lower demand.
Average deposits increased 14 percent primarily driven by
elevated balances from prior-year inflows on client responses to
market volatility and government stimulus measures.
Global Investment Banking
Client teams  and product specialists underwri te and distribute
debt, equity and loan products, and provide advisory services
and tailored risk management solutions. The economics of
certain inves tment banking and underwriting activities are shared
primarily between Global Banking and Global Markets  under an
internal revenue-sharing arrangement.  Global Banking originates
certain deal-related transactions with our corporate and
commercial clients that are executed and distributed byGlobal Markets . To provide a complete discussion of our
consolidated investment banking fees, the following table
presents total Corporation investment banking fees and the
portion attributable to Global Banking.
Investment Banking
Fees
Global Banking Total Corporation
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2021 2020
Products
Advisory $ 2,139 $ 1,458 $ 2,311 $ 1,621 
Debt issuance 1,736 1,555 4,015 3,443 
Equity issuance 1,232 997 2,784 2,328 
Gross investment
banking fees 5,107 4,010 9,110 7,392 
Self-led deals (93) (93) (223) (212)
Total investment
banking fees $ 5,014 $ 3,917 $ 8,887 $ 7,180 
Total Corpo ration inves tment banking fees, excluding self-led
deals, of $8.9 billion, which are primarily included within Global
Banking  and Global Markets, increased 24 percent primarily
driven by higher adviso ry fees as well as higher debt issuance
and equity issuance fees.
43 Bank of America
Global Markets
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 % Change
Net interest income $ 4,011 $ 4,646 (14)%
Noninterest income:
Investment and brokerage services 1,979 1,973 — 
Investment banking fees 3,616 2,991 21 
Market making and similar activities 8,760 8,471 3 
All other income 889 684 30 
Total noninterest income 15,244 14,119 8 
Total revenue, net of interest expense 19,255 18,765 3 
Provision for credit losses 65 251 (74)
Noninterest expense 13,032 11,417 14 
Income before income taxes 6,158 7,097 (13)
Income tax expense 1,601 1,845 (13)
Net income $ 4,557 $ 5,252 (13)
Effective tax rate 26.0 % 26.0 %
Return on average allocated capital 12 15 
Efficiency ratio 67.68 60.84 
Balance Sheet
Average
Trading-related assets:
Trading account securities $ 291,505 $ 243,519 20 %
Reverse repurchases 113,989 104,697 9 
Securities borrowed 100,292 87,125 15 
Derivative assets 43,582 47,655 (9)
Total trading-related assets 549,368 482,996 14 
Total loans and leases 91,339 73,062 25 
Total earning assets 541,391 482,171 12 
Total assets 785,998 685,047 15 
Total deposits 51,833 47,400 9 
Allocated capital 38,000 36,000 6 
Year end
Total trading-related assets $ 491,160 $ 421,698 16 %
Total loans and leases 114,846 78,415 46 
Total earning assets 561,135 447,350 25 
Total assets 747,794 616,609 21 
Total deposits 46,374 53,925 (14)
Global Markets  offers sales and trading services and research
services to institutional clients across fixed-income, credit,
currency , commodity and equity businesses. Global Markets
product coverage includes securities and derivative products in
both the primary and secondary markets. Global Markets
provides market-making , financing, securities clearing, settlement
and custody services globally to our institutional investor clients
in support of their investing and trading activities. We also work
with our commercial and corporate clients to provide risk
management products using interest rate, equity , credit, currency
and commodity derivatives, foreign exchange, fixed-income and
mortgage-related produ cts. As a result of our market-making
activities in these products, we may be required to manage risk in
a broad range of financial products including government
securities, equity and equity-linked securities,  high-grade and
high-yield corporate debt securities, syndicated loans, MBS,
commodities and asset-backed securities. The economics of
certain inves tment banking and underwriting activities are shared
primarily between Global Markets  and Global Banking  under an
internal revenue-sharing arrangement. Global Bank ing originates
certain deal-related transactions with our corporate and
commercial clients that are executed and distributed by Global
Markets . For information oninvestment banking fees on a consolidated basis, see page 43.
The followin g explanati ons for year-over-year changes for
Global Markets , including those disclosed under Sales and
Trading Revenue, are the same for amounts including and
excluding net DVA. Amounts excluding net DVA are a non-GAAP
financial measure. For more information on net DVA, see
Supplemental Financial Data on page 31.
Net income for Global Markets decreased $695 million to $4.6
billion. Net DVA losses were $54 million compared to losses of
$133 million in 2020. Excluding net DVA, net income decreased
$755 million to $4.6 billion. These decreases were primarily
driven by higher noninterest expense, partially offset by higher
revenue and lower provision for credit losses.
Revenue increased $490 million to $19.3 billion primarily
driven by higher investm ent banking fees and sales and trading
revenue. Sales and trading revenue increased $172 million, and
excluding net DVA, increased $93 million. These increases were
driven by higher revenue in Equities, partially offset by lower
revenue in FICC.
The provision for credit losses decreased $186 million
primarily due to an improved macroeconomic outlook.
Noninterest expense increased $1.6 billion to $13.0 billion
primarily driven by higher revenue-related expenses for sales
and trading as well as costs associated with processing
Bank of America 44
transactional card claims related to state unemployment benefits.
Average total assets increased $101.0 billion to $786.0 billion.
Year-end total assets increased $131.2 billion to $747.8 billion.
Both increases were primarily due to higher client balances in
Equities and higher levels of inventory and loan growth in FICC.
The return on average allocated capital was 12 percent, down
from 15 percent, reflecting lower net income and an increase in
allocated capital. For more information on capital allocated to the
business segments, see Business Segment Operations on page
36.
Sales and Trading Revenue
Sales and trading revenue includes unrealized and realized gains
and losses on trading and other assets which  are included in
market making and similar activities, net interest income, and
fees primarily from commissions on equity securities. Sales and
trading revenue is segregated into fixed-income (government
debt obligations, investment and non-investment grade corporate
debt obligations, commercial MBS, residential mortgage-backed
securities, collateralized loan obligations, interest rate and credit
derivative contracts), currencies (interest rate and foreign
exchange contracts), commodities (primarily futures, forwards,
swaps and options) and equities (equity-linked  derivatives and
cash equity activity). The following table and related discussion
present sales and trading revenue, substantially  all of which is in
Global Markets,  with the remainder in Global Banking . In
addition, the following table and related discussion present sales
and trading revenue,excluding net DVA, which is a non-GAAP  financial measure. For
more information on net DVA, see Supplemental Financial Data
on page 31.
Sales and Trading Revenue 
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Sales and trading revenue
Fixed income, currencies and commodities $ 8,761 $ 9,595 
Equities 6,428 5,422 
Total sales and trading revenue $ 15,189 $ 15,017 
Sales and trading revenue, excluding net DVA 
Fixed income, currencies and commodities $ 8,810 $ 9,725 
Equities 6,433 5,425 
Total sales and trading revenue, excluding net
DVA $ 15,243 $ 15,150 
For more information on sales and trading revenue, see Note 3 – Deriva tives to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Includes FTE adjustments of $421 million and $196 million for 2021 and 2020.
Includes Global Banking  sales and trading revenue of $510 million and $479 million for 2021
and 2020.
FICC and Equities sales and tradin g revenue, excluding net DVA, is a non-GAAP  financial
measure. FICC net DVA losses were  $49 million and $130 million for 2021 and 2020. Equities
net DV A losses were $5 million and $3 million for 2021 and 2020.
FICC reven ue decreased $915 million driven  by reduced
activity in macro products, partially offset by stronger
performance in credit and municipal products, and gains in
commodities (partially offset by related losses in another
segment) from market volatility driven by a weather-related event
in the first quarter of 2021. Equities revenue increased $1.0
billion driven  by growth in client financing activities, a stronger
trading performance and increased client activity .
All Other
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 % Change
Net interest income $ 246 $ 34 n/m
Noninterest income (loss) (5,589) (3,605) 55 %
Total revenue, net of interest expense (5,343) (3,571) 50 
Provision for credit losses (182) 50 n/m
Noninterest expense 1,519 1,412 8 
Loss before income taxes (6,680) (5,033) 33 
Income tax benefit (8,069) (4,634) 74 
Net income (loss) $ 1,389 $ (399) n/m
Balance Sheet
Year Ended December 31
Average 2021 2020 % Change
Total loans and leases $ 18,447 $ 28,159 (34)%
Total assets 191,831 228,783 (16)
Total deposits 16,512 18,247 (10)
Year endDecember 31
2021December 31
2020 % Change
Total loans and leases $ 15,863 $ 21,301 (26)%
Total assets 214,153 264,141 (19)
Total deposits 21,182 12,998 63 
In segme nts wher e the total of liabilities and equity exceeds assets, which are generally deposit-taking segments, we allocate assets from All Other  to those segments to match liabilit ies (i.e.,
deposits) and allocated shareholders’  equity . Average allocated assets were $1.1 trillion and $763.1 billion for 2021 and 2020, and year-end allocated assets were $1.2 trillion and $977.7 billion at
December 31, 2021 and 2020.
n/m = not meaningful
All Other primarily consists of ALM activities, liquidating
businesses and certain expenses not otherwise allocated to a
business segment. ALM activities encompass interest rate and
foreign currency risk management activities for which
substantially all of the results are allocated to our business
segments. For more information on our ALM activities, see Note
23 – Business Segm ent Information  to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.Net income increased $1.8 billion  to $1.4 billion  primarily due
to a higher income tax benefit and improvement in the provision
for credit losses, partially of fset by lower revenue.
Revenue decreased $1.8 billion  primarily due to higher
partnership losses for ESG investments and a $704 million gain
on sales of certain mortgage loans in the prior year .(1, 2, 3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)    
(4)    
(1)
(1)
(1)
45 Bank of America
The provision for credit losses improved $232 million to a
benefit of $182 million primarily due to an improved
macroeconomic outlook.
Noninterest expense increased $107 million primarily due to
higher technology costs and the realignment of a liquidating
business activity from Global Markets  to All Other in the fourth
quarter of 2021, partially offset by lower litigation expense. For
more information on realignment of the business activity , see
Note 23 – Business Segment Information to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
The income tax benefit was $8.1 billion in 2021 compared to a
benefit of $4.6 billion in 2020. The increase in the tax benefit was
primarily driven by the impact of U.K. tax law changes and
increased income tax credits in 2021. For more information on
U.K. tax law changes, see Financial Highlights – Income Tax
Expense on page 29. Both years included income tax benefit
adjustments to eliminate the FTE treatment of certain tax credits
recorded in Global Banking .
Managing Risk
Risk is inherent in all our business activities. Sound risk
management enables us to serve our customer s and deliver for
our shareholders. If not managed well, risk can result in financial
loss, regulatory sanctions and penalties, and damage to our
reputation, each of which may adversely impact our ability to
execute our business strategies. We take a comprehensive
approach to risk management with a defined Risk Framework
and an articulated Risk Appetite Statement, which are approved
annually by the ERC and the Board.
The seven key types of risk faced by the Corporation are
strategic, credit, marke t, liquidity , compliance, operational and
reputational.
●    Strategic risk is the risk to current or projected financial
condition arising from incorrect assumptions about external or
internal factors, inappropriate business plans, ineffective
business strategy execu tion or failure to respond in a timely
manner to changes in the regulatory , macroeconomic or
competitive environment s in the geographic locations in which
we operate.
●    Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from the inability or failure
of a borrower or counterparty to meet its obligations.
●    Market risk is the risk that changes in market conditions
adversely impact the value of assets or liabilities or otherwise
negatively impact earnings. Market risk is composed of price
risk and interest rate risk.
●    Liquidity risk is the inability to meet expected or unexpected
cash flow and collateral needs while continuing to support our
businesses and customers under a range of economic
conditions.
●    Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions,
material financial loss or damage to the reputation of the
Corporation arising from the failure of the Corporation to
comply with the requirements of applicable laws, rules and
regulations and our internal policies and procedures.
●    Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or
failed internal processes or systems, people  or external
events.
●    Reputational risk is the risk that negative perce ption of the
Corporation may adversely impact profitability or operations.
The following sections address in more detail the specific
procedures, measures and analyses of the major categories of
risk. This discussion of managing risk focuses on the currentRisk Framew ork that, as part of its annual review process, was
approved by the ERC and the Board.
As set forth in our Risk Framework, a culture of managing risk
well is fundamental to our values and our purpose, and how we
drive Responsible Growth. It requires us to focus on risk in all
activities and encourages the necessary mindset and behavior to
enable effective risk management and promote sound risk-taking
within our risk appetite. Sustaining a culture of managing risk well
throughout the organization is critical to the success of the
Corporation and is a clear expectation of our executive
management team and the Board.
Our Risk Framework serves as the foundation for the
consistent and effective management of risks facing the
Corporation. The Risk Framework sets forth roles and
responsibilities for the management of risk and provides a
blueprint for how the Board, through delegation of authority to
committees and executive officers, establishes risk appetite and
associated limits for our activities.
Executive management assesses, with Board oversight, the
risk-adjusted returns of each business. Managem ent reviews and
approves the strategic and financial operating plans, as well as
the capital plan and Risk Appetite Statement, and recommends
them annually to the Board for approval. Our strategic plan takes
into consideration return objectives and financial resources,
which must align with risk capacity and risk appetite.
Management sets financial objectives for each business by
allocating capital and setting a target for return on capital for
each busine ss. Capital allocations and operating limits are
regularly evaluated as part of our overall governance processes
as the businesses and the economic environment in which we
operate continue to evolve. For more inform ation regarding
capital allocations, see Business Segment Operations on page
36.
The Corporation’ s risk appetite indicates the amount of
capital, earnings or liquidity we are willing to put at risk to achieve
our strategi c objectives and business plans, consistent with
applicable regulatory requirements. Our risk appetite provides a
common set of measures for senior management and the Board
to clearly indicate the level of risk we are willing to take in
alignment with our strate gic and capital plans and ensure that the
Corporation’ s risk profile remains aligned with our risk appetite.
Our risk appetite is formally articulated in the Risk Appetite
Statement, which includes both qualitative components and
quantitative limits.
Our overall capacity to take risk is limited; therefore, we
prioritize the risks we take in order to maintain a strong and
flexible financial position so we can withst and challenging
economic conditions and take advantage of organic growth
opportunities. Therefore, we set objectives and targets for capital
and liquidity that are intended to permit us to continue to operate
in a safe and sound manner , including during periods of stress.
Our lines of business operate with risk limits  (which may
include credit, market and/or operational limits , as applicable)
that align with the Corporation’ s risk appetite. Executive
management is responsible for tracking and reporting
performance measurements as well as any exceptions to
guidelines or limits. The Board, and its committees when
appropriate, oversee financial performance, execution of the
strategic and financial operating plans, adherence to risk appetite
limits and the adequacy of internal controls.
For a more detailed discussion of our risk management
activities, see the discussion below and pages 49 through 82.
For more information about the Corporation's risks related to
the pandemic, see Item 1A. Risk Factors on page 8. These
Bank of America 46
COVID-19 related risks are being managed within our Risk
Framework and supporting risk management programs.
Risk Management Governance
The Risk Framework describes delegations of authority whereby
the Board and its committees may delegate authority to
management-level committees or executive officers. Such
delegations may authorize certain decision-making and approvalfunctions, which may be evidenced in documents such as
committee charters, job descriptions, meetin g minutes and
resolutions.
The chart below illustrates the interrelationshi p among the
Board, Board committees and management committees that
have the majority of risk oversight responsibilities for the
Corporation.
Board of Directors and Board Committees
The Board is composed  of 16 directors, all but one of whom are
independent. The Board authorizes managemen t to maintain an
effective Risk Framework and oversees compliance with safe
and sound banking practices. In addition, the Board or its
committees conduct inquiries of, and receiv e reports from
management on, risk-related matters to assess scope or
resource limitations that could impede the ability of Global Risk
Management (GRM) and/or Corporate Audit to execute its
responsibilities. The Board committees discusse d below have the
principal responsibility for enterprise-wide oversight of our risk
management activities. Through these activities , the Board and
applicable committees are provided with information on our risk
profile and oversee executive management addressing key risks
we face. Other Board committees, as described below , provide
additional oversight of specific risks.
Each of the committees  shown on the above chart regularly
reports to the Board on risk-related matters within the
committee’ s responsibil ities, which is intende d to collectively
provide the Board with integrated insight about our management
of enterprise-wide risks.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee oversees the qualifications, performance
and indepe ndence of the Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm, the performance of our corporate audit function,
the integrity of our consolidated financial statements, our
compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, and makes
inquiries of management or the Chief Audit Executive (CAE) to
determine whether there are scope or resource limitations that
impede the ability of Corporate Audit to execute its
responsibilities. The Audit Committee is also responsible for
overseeing compliance risks pursuant to the New York Stock
Exchange listing standards.
Enterprise Risk Committee
The ERC has primary responsibility for oversight of the Risk
Framework and key risks we face and of the Corporation’ soverall risk appetite. It approves the Risk Framework and the
Risk Appet ite Statem ent and further recommends these
documents to the Board for approval. The ERC oversees senior
management’ s responsibilities for the identification,
measurement, monitorin g and control of key risks we face. The
ERC may consult with other Board committees on risk-related
matters.
Other Board Committees
Our Corporate Governance, ESG, and Sustainability Committee
oversees our Board’ s governance processes , identifies and
reviews the qualifications of potential Board members,
recommends nominees for election to our Board, recommends
committee appointments for Board approval and reviews our
ESG and stockholder engagement activities.
Our Compensation and Human Capital Committee oversees
establishing, maintainin g and administering our compensation
programs and employee  benefit plans, including approving and
recommending our Chief Executive Officer’s (CEO)
compensation to our Board for further approval by all
independent directors; reviewing and approvin g our executive
officers’  compensation, as well as compensation for non-
management directors; and reviewing certain other human
capital management topics.
Management Committees
Management committee s receive their authority  from the Board,
a Board committee, another management committee or from one
or more executive officers. Our primary management risk
committee is the MRC. Subject to Board oversight, the MRC is
responsible for management oversight of key risks facing the
Corporation, including an integrated evaluation of risk, earnings,
capital and liquidity .
Lines of Defense
We have clear ownership and accountability for managing risk
across three  lines of defense: Front Line Units (FLUs), GRM and
Corporate Audit. We also have control functions  outside of FLUs
and GRM (e.g., Legal and Global Human Resources). The three
47 Bank of America
lines of defense are integrated into our management-level
governance structure. Each of these functional roles is further
described in this section.
Executive Officers
Executive officers lead various functions representing the
functional roles. Authority for functional roles may be delegated to
executive officers from the Board, Board committees or
management-level comm ittees. Executive officers, in turn, may
further delegate responsibilities, as appropriate, to management-
level committees, management routines or individuals. Executive
officers review our activities for consistency with our Risk
Framework, risk appetite, and applicable strate gic, capital and
financial operating plans, as well as applicable policies and
standards. Executive officers and other employees make
decisions individually on a day-to-day basis, consistent with the
authority they have been delegated. Executive officers and other
employees may also serve on committees and participate in
committee decisions.
Front Line Units
FLUs, which  include the lines of business as well as Global
Technology and Global Operations, are responsible for
appropriately assessing and effectively managing all of the risks
associated with their activities.
Three organ izational units that include FLU activities and
control function activities, but are not part of GRM are first, the
Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Group; second, the Chief
Administrative Officer (CAO) Group; and third, Global Strategy
and Enterprise Platforms (GSEP).
Global Risk Management
GRM is part of our control functions and operates as our
independent risk management function. GRM, led by the Chief
Risk Officer (CRO), is responsible for independently assessing
and overseeing risks within FLUs and other control functions.
GRM establishes written enterprise policies and procedures
outlining how aggregate risks are identified, measured, monitored
and controlled.
The CRO has the stature, authority and independence needed
to develop and imple ment a meaningful risk management
framework and practices to guide the Corporation in managing
risk. The CRO has unrestricted access to the Board and reports
directly to both the ERC and the CEO. GRM is organized into
horizontal risk teams that cover a specific risk area and vertical
CRO teams that cover a particular FLU or control function. These
teams work collaboratively in executing their respective duties.
Corporate Audit
Corporate Audit and the CAE maintain their independence from
the FLUs, GRM and other control functions by reporting directly
to the Audit Committee.  The CAE administratively reports to the
CEO. Corporate Audit provides independent assessment and
validation through testing of key processes and controls across
the Corporation. Corporate Audit includes Credit Review , which
provides an independen t assessment of credit lending decisions
and the effectiveness of credit processe s across the
Corporation’ s credit platform through examinations and
monitoring.
Risk Management Processes
The Risk Framework requires that strong risk management
practices are integrated in key strategic, capital and financial
planning processes and in day-to-day business processes across
the Corporation, thereby ensuring risks are appropriatelyconsidered, evaluated and responded to in a timely manner . We
employ an effective risk management process, referred to as
Identify , Measure, Monitor and Control, as part of our daily
activities.
Identify  – To be effectively managed, risks must be proactively
identified and well understood. Proper risk identification
focuses on recognizing and understanding key risks inherent in
our business  activities or key risks that may arise from external
factors. Each employee is expected to identify and escalate
risks promptly . Risk identification is an ongoing process that
incorporates input from FLUs and control functions. It is
designed to be forward-looking and to capture relevant risk
factors across all of our lines of business.
Measure  – Once a risk is identified, it must be prioritiz ed and
accurately measured through a systematic process including
quantitative and qualitative components. Risk is measured at
various levels, including, but not limited to, risk type, FLU and
legal entity , and also on an aggregate basis. This risk
measurement process helps to capture changes in our risk
profile due to changes in strategic direction, concentrations,
portfolio quality and the overall economic environment. Senior
management considers how risk exposures might evolve under
a variety of stress scenarios.
Monitor  – We monitor risk levels  regularly to track adherence to
risk appetite, policies and standards. We also regularly update
risk assessments and review risk exposures. Through our
monitoring, we know our level of risk relative to limits and can
take action in a timely manner . We also know when risk limits
are breached and have processes to appropriately report and
escalate exceptions. This includes timely requests for approval
to manage rs and alerts to executive management,
management-level committees or the Board (directly or
through an appropriate committee).
Control  – We establ ish and communicate risk limits and controls
through policies, standa rds, procedures and processes. The
limits and controls can be adjusted by the Board or
management when conditions or risk tolerances warrant.
These limits may be absolute (e.g., loan amount, trading
volume, operational loss) or relative (e.g., percentage of loan
book in higher-risk categories). Our FLUs are held accountable
for performing within the established limits.
The formal processes used to manage risk represent a part of
our overall risk management process. We instill a strong and
comprehensive culture  of managing risk well through
communications, training, policies, procedures and organizational
roles and responsibilities. Establishing a culture reflective of our
purpose to help make our customers’  financial lives better and
delivering on Responsib le Growth is also critical to effective risk
management. We are committed to the highest principles of
ethical and professiona l conduct. Conduct risk is the risk of
improper actions, behaviors or practices that are illegal, unethical
and/or contr ary to our core values that could result in harm to the
Corporation, our shareholders or our custome rs, damage the
integrity of the financial markets, or negatively impact our
reputation. We have established protocols and structures so that
conduct risk is governed and reported across the Corporation
appropriately . All employees are held accountable for adhering to
the Code of Conduct, operating within our risk appetite and
managing risk in their daily business activities. In addition, our
performance management and compensation practices
encourage responsible risk-taking that is consistent with our Risk
Framework and risk appetite.
Bank of America 48
Corporation-wide Stress Testing
Integral to our Capital Planning, Financial Planning and Strategic
Planning processes, we conduct capital scena rio management
and stress forecasting on a periodic basis to better understand
balance sheet, earnings and capital sensitivities to certain
economic and business scenarios, including  economic and
market conditions that are more severe than anticipated. These
stress forec asts provide an understanding of the potential
impacts from our risk profile on the balance sheet, earnings and
capital, and serve as a key component of our capital and risk
management practices. The intent of stress testing is to develop
a comprehensive understanding of potential impacts of on- and
off-balance sheet risks at the Corporatio n and certain
subsidiaries and how they impact financial resiliency , which
provides confidence to management, regulators and our
investors.
Contingency Planning
We have developed and maintain contingency plans that are
designed to prepare us in advance to respond in the event of
potential adverse economic, financial or mark et stress. These
contingency plans include our Capital Contin gency Plan and
Financial Contingency and Recovery Plan, which provide
monitoring, escalation, actions and routines designed to enable
us to increase capital, access funding sources and reduce risk
through consideration of potential options that include asset
sales, busin ess sales, capital or debt issuanc es, or other de-
risking strate gies. We also maintain a Resolut ion Plan to limit
adverse systemic impacts that could be associated with a
potential resolution of Bank of America.
Strategic Risk Management
Strategic risk is embedded in every business and is one of the
major risk categories along with credit, market, liquidity ,
compliance, operational  and reputational risks. This risk results
from incorrect assumptions about external or internal factors,
inappropriate business  plans, ineffective business strategy
execution, or failure to respond in a timely manner to changes in
the regulatory , macroeconomic or competitive environments in
the geographic locations in which we operate, such as competitor
actions, changing customer preferences, product obsolescence
and technology developments. Our strategic plan is consistent
with our risk appetite, capital plan and liquidity requirements, and
specifically addresses strategic risks.
On an annual basis, the Board reviews and approves the
strategic plan, capital plan, financial operating plan and Risk
Appetite Statement. With oversight by the Board, executive
management directs the lines of business to execute our
strategic plan consistent with our core operating principles and
risk appetit e. The executive management team monitors
business performance throughout the year and provides the
Board with regular progress reports on whether strategic
objectives and timelines are being met, including reports on
strategic risks and if additional or alternative actions need to be
considered or implemen ted. The regular executive reviews focus
on assessing forecasted earnings and returns on capital, the
current risk profile, current capital and liquidi ty requirements,
staffing levels and changes required to support the strategic plan,
stress testing results, and other qualitative factors such as
market growth rates and peer analysis.
Significant strategic actions, such as capital actions, material
acquisitions or divestitures, and resolution plans are reviewed
and approved by the Board. At the business level, processes are
in place to discuss the strategic risk implications of new,
expanded or modified businesses, products or servicesand other strategic initiatives, and to provide formal review and
approval where required . With oversight by the Board and the
ERC, executive management performs similar analyses
throughout the year, and evaluates changes to the financial
forecast or the risk, capital or liquidity positi ons as deemed
appropriate to balance and optimize achieving the targeted risk
appetite, shareholder returns and maintainin g the targeted
financial strength. Proprietary models are used to measure the
capital requirements for credit, country , market, operational and
strategic risks. The allocated capital assigned to each business is
based on its unique risk profile. With oversight by the Board,
executive management assesses the risk-adjusted returns of
each busine ss in approving strategic and financial operating
plans. The businesses use allocated capital to define business
strategies, and price products and transactions.
Capital Management
The Corpora tion manages its capital position so that its capital is
more than adequate to support its business activities and aligns
with risk, risk appetite and strategic planning. Additionally , we
seek to maintain safety and soundness at all times, even under
adverse scenarios, take advantage of organic growth
opportunities, meet obligations to creditors and counterparties,
maintain ready access to financial markets, continue to serve as
a credit intermediary , remain a source of strength for our
subsidiaries, and satisfy current and future regulatory capital
requirements. Capital management is integrated into our risk and
governance processes, as capital is a key consideration in the
development of our strategic plan, risk appetite and risk limits.
We conduct an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment
Process (ICAAP) on a periodic basis. The ICAAP  is a forward-
looking assessment of our projected capital needs and
resources, incorporatin g earnings, balance sheet and risk
forecasts under baseline and adverse econo mic and market
conditions. We utilize periodic stress tests to assess the potential
impacts to our balance sheet, earnings, regulatory capital and
liquidity under a variety of stress scenarios. We perform
qualitative risk assessments to identify and assess material risks
not fully captured in our forecasts or stress tests. We assess the
potential capital impacts of proposed changes to regulatory
capital requirements. Management assesses ICAAP  results and
provides documented quarterly assessments of the adequacy of
our capital guidelines and capital position to the Board or its
committees.
We periodically review capital allocated to our businesses and
allocate capital annually during the strategic and capital planning
processes. For more information, see Business Segment
Operations on page 36.
CCAR and Capital Planning
The Federal  Reserve requires BHCs to submit a capital plan and
planned capital actions on an annual basis, consistent with the
rules governing the Com prehensive Capital Analysis and Review
(CCAR) capital plan. Based on the results of our 2021 CCAR
capital plan and related supervisory stress tests , we are subject
to a 2.5 percent stress capital buffer (SCB), unchanged from the
prior level, effective October 1, 2021 through September 30,
2022. Our Common equity tier 1 (CET1) capital ratio under the
Standardized approach must remain above 9.5 percent during
this period in order to avoid restrictions on capital distributions
and discretionary bonus payments.
Due to uncertainty resulting from the pandemic, the Federal
Reserve imposed various restrictions on share repurchase
programs and dividends during 2020 and the first half of 2021.
49 Bank of America
In conjunction with its release of 2021 CCAR supervisory stress
test results, the Federa l Reserve announced those restrictions
would end as of July 1, 2021 for large bank s, including the
Corporation, and large banks would be subje ct to the normal
restrictions under the Federal Reserve's SCB framework. On
October 20, 2021, we announced that the Board renewed the
Corporation’ s $25 billion common stock repurchase program
previously announced in April 2021. The Board’ s authorization
replaced the previous program. As with the April authorization,
the Board also authorized common stock repurchases to offset
shares awarded under the Corporation’ s equity-based
compensation plans. Pursuant to the Board’ s authorization,
during 2021 we repurchased $25.1 billion of common stock,
including repurchases to offset shares awarded under equity-
based compensation plans.
The timing and amount of common stock repurchases made
pursuant to our stock repurchase program are subject to various
factors, including the Corporation’ s capital position, liquidity ,
financial performance and alternative uses of capital, stock
trading price, regulatory requirements and general market
conditions, and may be suspended at any time. Such
repurchases may be effected through open market purchases or
privately negotiated transactions, including repurchase plans that
satisfy the conditions of Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act).
Regulatory Capital
As a financ ial services holding company , we are subject to
regulatory capital rules, including Basel 3, issued by U.S. banking
regulators. Basel 3 established minimum capital ratios and buffer
requirements and outlined two methods of calculating risk-
weighted assets (RWA), the Standardized approach and the
Advanced approaches.  The Standardized approach relies
primarily on supervisory risk weights based on exposure type,
and the Advanced approaches determine risk weights based on
internal models.
The Corporation's depository institution subsidiaries are also
subject to the Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) framework. The
Corporation and its primary affiliated banking entity , BANA, are
Advanced approaches institutions under Basel 3 and are
required to report regulatory risk-based capital ratios and RWA
under both the Standardized and Advanced approaches. The
approach that yields the lower ratio is used to assess capital
adequacy , including under the PCA framework. As of
December 31, 2021, the CET1, Tier 1 capital and Total capital
ratios for the Corporation were lower under the Standardized
approach.
Minimum Capital Requirements
In order to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and
discretionary bonus payments, the Corporation  must meet risk-
based capital ratio requirements that include a capitalconservation buffer of 2.5 percent (under the Advanced
approaches only), an SCB (under the Standardized approach
only), plus any applicable countercyclical capital buffer and a
global systemically important bank (G-SIB) surcharge. Including
a regulatory  minimum requirement of 4.5 percent, an SCB of 2.5
percent and a G-SIB surcharge of 2.5 percent, the Corporation's
CET1 capita l ratio must be a minimum of 9.5 percent under both
the Standardized and Advanced approaches.
The Corporation is required to calculate its G-SIB surcharge
on an annual basis under two methods and is subject to the
higher of the resulting two surcharges. Method 1 is consistent
with the approach prescribed by the Basel Committee’ s
assessment methodolo gy and is calculated using specified
indicators of systemic importance. Method 2 modifies the Method
1 approach by, among other factors, including a measure of the
Corporation’ s reliance on short-term wholesa le funding. The
Corporation’ s G-SIB surcharge, which is higher under Method 2,
is expected to increase to 3.0 percent on January 1, 2024 unless
its surcharge calculated as of December 31, 2022 is lower than
3.0 percent.
The current SCB of 2.5 percent, which remains effective from
October 1, 2021 through September 30, 2022, could change
based on results of the 2022 CCAR capital plan and related
supervisory stress tests to be submitted in the first half of 2022.
The Corporation is also required to maintain a minimum
supplementary leverage ratio (SLR) of 3.0 percent plus a
leverage buffer of 2.0 percent in order to avoid certain restrictions
on capital distributions and discretionary bonus  payments. Our
insured depository institution subsidiaries are required to
maintain a minimum 6.0 percent SLR to be considered well
capitalized under the PCA framework. The numerator of the SLR
is quarter-end Basel 3 Tier 1 capital. The denominator is total
leverage exposure base d on the daily average of the sum of on-
balance sheet exposures less permitted deductions, and
applicable temporary exclusions, as well as the simple average
of certain off-balance sheet exposures, as of the end of each
month in a quarter . The temporary exclusions expired after March
31, 2021 and were not applicable for December 31, 2021. For
more information, see Capital Management – Regulatory
Developments on page 54.
Capital Composition and Ratios
Table 10 presents Bank of America Corporation’ s capital ratios
and related information in accordance with Basel 3 Standardized
and Advanced approaches as measured at December 31, 2021
and 2020. For the periods presented herein, the Corporation met
the definition of well capitalized under current regulatory
requirements.
Bank of America 50
Table 10Bank of America Corporation Regulatory Capital under Basel 3
Standardized
Approach Advanced
Approaches Regulatory
Minimum 
(Dollars in millions, except as noted) December 31, 2021
Risk-based capital metrics:
Common equity tier 1 capital $ 171,759 $ 171,759 
Tier 1 capital 196,465 196,465 
Total capital 227,592 220,616 
Risk-weighted assets (in billions) 1,618 1,399 
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 10.6 % 12.3 % 9.5 %
Tier 1 capital ratio 12.1 14.0 11.0 
Total capital ratio 14.1 15.8 13.0 
Leverage-based metrics:
Adjusted quarterly average assets (in billions) $ 3,087 $ 3,087 
Tier 1 leverage ratio 6.4 % 6.4 % 4.0 
Supplementary leverage exposure (in billions) $ 3,604 
Supplementary leverage ratio 5.5 % 5.0 
December 31, 2020
Risk-based capital metrics:
Common equity tier 1 capital $ 176,660 $ 176,660 
Tier 1 capital 200,096 200,096 
Total capital 237,936 227,685 
Risk-weighted assets (in billions) 1,480 1,371 
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 11.9 % 12.9 % 9.5 %
Tier 1 capital ratio 13.5 14.6 11.0 
Total capital ratio 16.1 16.6 13.0 
Leverage-based metrics:
Adjusted quarterly average assets (in billions) $ 2,719 $ 2,719 
Tier 1 leverage ratio 7.4 % 7.4 % 4.0 
Supplementary leverage exposure (in billions) $ 2,786 
Supplementary leverage ratio 7.2 % 5.0 
Capital ratios as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 are calculated using the regulatory capital rule that allows a five-year transition period related  to the adoption of the current expected credit losses
(CECL) accounting standard.
The capital conservation buffer and G-SIB surcharge were 2.5 percent at both December 31, 2021 and 2020. At both December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Corporation's SCB of 2.5 percent was applied
in place of the capital conservation buffer under the Standardized approa ch. The countercyclical capital buffer for both periods was zero. The CET1 capital regulatory minimum is the sum of the CET1
capital ratio minimum of 4.5 percent, our G-SIB surcharge of 2.5 percent and our SCB or the capital conservation buffer, as applicable, of 2.5 percent. The SLR regulatory minimum includes a
leverage buf fer of 2.0 percent.
Total capital under the Advanced approaches dif fers from the Standardized approach due to dif ferences in the amount permitted in Tier 2 capital related to the qualifying allowance for credit losses.
Reflects total average assets adjusted for certain Tier 1 capital deductions.
Supplementary leverage exposure at December 31, 2020 reflects the temporary exclusion of U.S. Treasury securities and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks. The temporary relief expired after
March 31, 2021 and is not reflected in supplementary leverage exposure at December 31, 2021.
At Decembe r 31, 2021, CET1 capital was $171.8 billion, a
decrease of $4.9 billion from December 31, 2020, driven by
common stock repurchases, dividends and decreases in net
unrealized gains on available-for-sale (AFS) debt securities
included in accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI),
partially offset by earnings. Tier 1 capital decreased $3.6 billion
primarily driven by the same factors as CET1  capital, partially
offset by non-cumulativ e perpetual preferred stock issuances.
Total capital under the Standardized approach decreased $10.3
billion prima rily due to the same factors driving  the decrease in
CET1 capital, and a decrease in the adjusted allowance for credit
losses included in Tier 2 capital. R WA under theStandardized approach, which yielded the lower CET1 capital
ratio at Dece mber 31, 2021, increased $138.1 billion during 2021
to $1,618 billion primaril y due to loan growth in Global Bank ing,
strong client  activity in Global Mark ets and an increase in debt
securities resulting from the deployment of cash received from
deposit inflows. Supplementary leverage exposure at
December 31, 2021 increased $818.1 billion during 2021
primarily due to the expiration of the Federal Reserve’ s
temporary relief to exclude U.S. Treasury securities and deposits
at Federal Reserve Banks and an increase in debt securities
resulting from the deployment of cash received from deposit
inflows.(1) (1) (2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
51 Bank of America
Table 11 shows the capital composition at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Table 11Capital Composition under Basel 3
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Total common shareholders’ equity $ 245,358 $ 248,414 
CECL transitional amount 2,508 4,213 
Goodwill, net of related deferred tax liabilities (68,641) (68,565)
Deferred tax assets arising from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards (7,743) (5,773)
Intangibles, other than mortgage servicing rights, net of related deferred tax liabilities (1,605) (1,617)
Defined benefit pension plan net assets (1,261) (1,164)
Cumulative unrealized net (gain) loss related to changes in fair value of financial liabilities attributable to own creditworthiness,
 net-of-tax 1,400 1,753 
Accumulated net (gain) loss on certain cash flow hedges 1,870 (436)
Other (127) (165)
Common equity tier 1 capital 171,759 176,660 
Qualifying preferred stock, net of issuance cost 24,707 23,437 
Other (1) (1)
Tier 1 capital 196,465 200,096 
Tier 2 capital instruments 20,750 22,213 
Qualifying allowance for credit losses 10,534 15,649 
Other (157) (22)
Total capital under the Standardized approach 227,592 237,936 
Adjustment in qualifying allowance for credit losses under the Advanced approaches (6,976) (10,251)
Total capital under the Advanced approaches $ 220,616 $ 227,685 
Includes the impact of the Corporation's adoption of the CECL  accounting standard on January 1, 2020 and 25 percent of the increase in reserves since the initial adoption.
Includes amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income related to the hedging of items that are not recognized at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Includes the impact of transition provisions related to the CECL  accounting standard.
Table 12 shows the components of R WA as measured under Basel 3 at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Table 12Risk-weighted Assets under Basel 3
Standardized
ApproachAdvanced
ApproachesStandardized
ApproachAdvanced
Approaches
December 31
(Dollars in billions) 2021 2020
Credit risk $ 1,549 $ 913 $ 1,420 $ 896 
Market risk 69 69 60 60 
Operational risk n/a 378 n/a 372 
Risks related to credit valuation adjustments n/a 39 n/a 43 
Total risk-weighted assets $ 1,618 $ 1,399 $ 1,480 $ 1,371 
n/a = not applicable(1)
(2)
(3)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
Bank of America 52
Bank of America, N.A. Regulatory Capital
Table 13 presents regulatory capital information for BANA  in accordance with Basel 3 Standardized and Advanced approaches as
measured at December 31, 2021 and 2020. BANA  met the definition of well capitalized under the PCA  framework for both periods.
Table 13Bank of America, N.A. Regulatory Capital under Basel 3
Standardized
Approach Advanced
Approaches Regulatory
Minimum 
(Dollars in millions, except as noted) December 31, 2021
Risk-based capital metrics:
Common equity tier 1 capital $ 182,526 $ 182,526 
Tier 1 capital 182,526 182,526 
Total capital 194,773 188,091 
Risk-weighted assets (in billions) 1,352 1,048 
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 13.5 % 17.4 % 7.0 %
Tier 1 capital ratio 13.5 17.4 8.5 
Total capital ratio 14.4 17.9 10.5 
Leverage-based metrics:
Adjusted quarterly average assets (in billions) $ 2,414 $ 2,414 
Tier 1 leverage ratio 7.6 % 7.6 % 5.0 
Supplementary leverage exposure (in billions) $ 2,824 
Supplementary leverage ratio 6.5 % 6.0 
December 31, 2020
Risk-based capital metrics:
Common equity tier 1 capital $ 164,593 $ 164,593 
Tier 1 capital 164,593 164,593 
Total capital 181,370 170,922 
Risk-weighted assets (in billions) 1,221 1,014 
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 13.5 % 16.2 % 7.0 %
Tier 1 capital ratio 13.5 16.2 8.5 
Total capital ratio 14.9 16.9 10.5 
Leverage-based metrics:
Adjusted quarterly average assets (in billions) $ 2,143 $ 2,143 
Tier 1 leverage ratio 7.7 % 7.7 % 5.0 
Supplementary leverage exposure (in billions) $ 2,525 
Supplementary leverage ratio 6.5 % 6.0 
Capital ratios for both December 31, 2021 and 2020 are calculated using the regulatory capital rule that allows a five-year transition period related to the adoption of CECL.
Risk-based capital  regulatory minimums at both December 31, 2021 and 2020 are the minimum ratios under Basel 3 including a capital conservation buffer of 2.5 percent. The regulatory minimums
for the leverage ratios as of both period ends are the percent required to be considered well capitalized under the PCA  framework.
Total capital under the Advanced approaches dif fers from the Standardized approach due to dif ferences in the amount permitted in Tier 2 capital related to the qualifying allowance for credit losses.
Reflects total average assets adjusted for certain Tier 1 capital deductions.
Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity Requirements
Total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) consists of the
Corporation’ s Tier 1 capital and eligible long-term debt issued
directly by the Corporation. Eligible long-term debt for TLAC
ratios is comprised of unsecured debt that has a remaining
maturity of at least one year and satisfies additional requirements
as prescribed in the TLAC final rule. As with therisk-based capital ratios and SLR, the Corporation is required to
maintain TLAC ratios in excess of minimum requirements plus
applicable buffers to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and
discretionary bonus payments. Table 14 presents the
Corporation's TLAC and long-term debt ratios and related
information as of December 31, 2021 and 2020.(1) (1) (2)
(3)
(4)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
53 Bank of America
Table 14Bank of America Corporation Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity and Long-Term Debt
TLAC Regulatory
Minimum Long-term
DebtRegulatory
Minimum 
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2021
Total eligible balance $ 435,904 $ 227,714 
Percentage of risk-weighted assets 26.9 % 22.0 % 14.1 % 8.5 %
Percentage of supplementary leverage exposure 12.1 9.5 6.3 4.5 
December 31, 2020
Total eligible balance $ 405,153 $ 196,997 
Percentage of risk-weighted assets 27.4 % 22.0 % 13.3 % 8.5 %
Percentage of supplementary leverage exposure 14.5 9.5 7.1 4.5 
As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, TLAC ratios are calculated using the regulatory capital rule that allows a five-year transition period related to the adoption of CECL.
The TLAC RWA regulatory minimum  consists of 18.0 percent plus a TLAC RWA buffer comprised of 2.5 percent plus the Method 1 G-SIB surcharge of 1.5 percent. The countercyclical buffer is zero
for both periods. The TLAC supplementary leverage exposure regulatory minimum consists of 7.5 percent plus a 2.0 percent TLAC leverage buffer. The TLAC RWA and leverage buffers must be
comprised solely of CET1 capital and Tier 1 capital, respectively .
The long-term debt RWA regulatory minimum is comprised of 6.0 percent plus an additional 2.5 percent requirement based on the Corporation’ s Method 2 G-SIB surcharge. The long-term debt
leverage exposure regulatory minimum is 4.5 percent.
The approach that yields the higher R WA is used to calculate TLAC and long-term debt ratios, which was the Standardized approach as of December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Supplementary leverage exposure at December 31, 2020 reflects the temporary exclusion of U.S. Treasury Securities and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks. The temporary relief expired after
March 31, 2021 and is not reflected in supplementary leverage exposure at December 31, 2021.
Regulatory Developments
Supplementary Leverage Ratio
On March 19, 2021, U.S. banking regulators announced that
temporary changes issued in 2020 for BHCs and depository
institutions would expire as scheduled after March 31, 2021.
These temp orary changes to the SLR allowed the exclusion of
on-balance sheet amounts of U.S. Treasury securities and
deposits at Federal Reserve Banks from the calculation of
supplementary leverage exposure. While the temporary relief
automatically applied to the Corporation, the Corporation’ s lead
depository institution, Bank of America, N.A., did not opt to take
advantage of the SLR relief offered by the OCC. At December
31, 2021, the Corporation’ s SLR was 5.5 percent, which exceeds
the 5.0 percent minimum required by the Federal Reserve.
Regulatory Capital and Securities Regulation
The Corpora tion’s princ ipal U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are
BofA  Securit ies, Inc. (BofAS), Merrill Lynch Profe ssional Clearing
Corp. (MLPCC) and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated (MLPF&S). The Corporation's principal European
broker-dealer subsidiaries are Merrill Lynch International (MLI)
and BofA  Securities Europe SA  (BofASE).
The U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the net
capital requirements of Rule 15c3-1 under the Exchange Act.
BofAS computes its minimum capital requirements as an
alternative net capital broker-dealer under Rule 15c3-1e, and
MLPCC and MLPF&S compute their minimum capital
requirements in accordance with the alternative standard under
Rule 15c3-1. BofAS and MLPCC are also registered as futures
commission merchants and are subject to Com modity Futures
Trading Commission (CFTC) Regulation 1.17. The U.S. broker-
dealer subsidiaries are also registered with the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority , Inc. (FINRA). Pursuant to FINRA  Rule
4110, FINRA  may impose higher net capital requirements than
Rule 15c3-1 under the Exchange Act with respe ct to each of the
broker-dealers.
BofAS provi des institutio nal services, and in accordance with
the alternative net capital requirements, is required to maintain
tentative net capital in excess of $5.0 billion and net capital in
excess of the greater of $1.0 billion or a certain percentage of its
reserve requirement in addition to a certain percentage of
securities-based swap risk margin. BofAS must also notify the
SEC in the event its tentative net capital is less than $6.0 billion.
BofAS is also required to hold a certain percentage of itscustomers' and affiliates' risk-based margin in order to meet its
CFTC minimum net capital requirement. At December 31, 2021,
BofAS had tentative net capital of $19.4 billion. BofAS also had
regulatory net capital of $16.6 billion, which exceeded the
minimum requirement of $3.5 billion.
MLPCC is a fully-guaranteed subsidiary of BofAS and
provides clearing and settlement services as well as prime
brokerage and arranged financing services for institutional
clients. At December 31, 2021, MLPCC’ s regulatory net capital of
$6.2 billion exceeded the minimum requirement of $1.5 billion.
MLPF&S provides retail services. At Decemb er 31, 2021,
MLPF&S' regulatory net capital was $5.7 billion, which exceeded
the minimum requirement of $199 million.
Our European broker-dealers are regulated by non-U.S.
regulators. MLI, a U.K. investment firm, is regulated by the
Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct
Authority and is subject to certain regulatory capital
requirements. At December 31, 2021, MLI’s capital resources
were $33.6 billion, which exceeded the minimum Pillar 1
requirement of $14.0 billion. BofASE, a French investment firm, is
regulated by the Autorité de Contrôle Prudentiel  et de Résolution
and the Autorité des Marchés Financiers, and is subject to certain
regulatory capital requirements. At Decem ber 31, 2021,
BofASE's capital resources were $7.9 billion, which exceeded the
minimum Pillar 1 requirement of $2.8 billion.
Liquidity Risk
Funding and Liquidity Risk Management
Our primary liquidity risk management objective is to meet
expected or unexpected cash flow and collater al requirements,
including payments under long-term debt agreements,
commitments to extend credit and customer deposit withdrawals,
while continuing to support our businesses and customers under
a range of economic conditions. To achieve that objective, we
analyze and monitor our liquidity risk under expected and
stressed conditions, maintain liquidity and access to diverse
funding sources, including our stable deposit base, and seek to
align liquidit y-related incentives and risks. These liquidity risk
management practices have allowed us to effectively manage the
market fluctuation from the pandemic. For more information on
the risks of the pandem ic, see Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors –
Coronavirus Disease on page 8 and Executive Summary –
Recent Developments – COVID-19(1) (2) (3)
(4)
 (5)
(4)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
Bank of America 54
Pandemic on page 27.
We define liquidity as readily available assets, limited to cash
and high-quality , liquid, unencumbered securities that we can use
to meet our contractual and contingent financial obligations as
they arise. We manage our liquidity position through line-of-
business and ALM activities, as well as through our legal entity
funding strategy , on both a forward and current (including
intraday) basis under both expected and stressed conditions. We
believe that a centralized approach to funding and liquidity
management enhances our ability to monitor liquidity
requirements, maximizes access to funding sources, minimizes
borrowing costs and facilitates timely responses to liquidity
events.
The Board approves our liquidity risk policy and the Financial
Contingency and Recovery Plan. The ERC establishes our
liquidity risk tolerance levels. The MRC is responsible for
overseeing liquidity risks and directing manage ment to maintain
exposures within the established tolerance levels. The MRC
reviews and monitors our liquidity position and stress testing
results, approves certain liquidity risk limits and reviews the
impact of strategic decisions on our liquidity . For more
information, see Managing Risk on page 46. Under this
governance framework , we developed certa in funding and
liquidity risk management practices which include: maintaining
liquidity at the parent  company and select ed subsidiaries,
including our bank subsidiaries and other regulated entities;
determining what amounts of liquidity are appropriate for these
entities based on analys is of debt maturities and other potential
cash outflows, including those that we may experience during
stressed market conditions; diversifying funding sources,
considering our asset profile and legal entity structure; and
performing contingency planning.
NB Holdings Corporation
The parent company , which is a separate and distinct legal entity
from our bank and nonbank subsidiaries, has an intercompany
arrangement with our wholly-owned holding company subsidiary ,
NB Holdings Corporation (NB Holdings). We have transferred,
and agreed to transfer , additional parent company assets not
required to satisfy anticipated near-term expenditures to NB
Holdings. The parent company is expected to continue to have
access to the same flow of dividends, interest and other amounts
of cash necessary to service its debt, pay dividends and perform
other obliga tions as it would have had it not entered into these
arrangements and transferred any assets. These arrangements
support our preferred single point of entry resolution strategy ,
under which only the parent company would be resolved under
the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
In consideration for the transfer of assets, NB Holdings issued
a subo rdinated note to the parent company in a principal amount
equal to the value of the transferred assets.  The aggregate
principal amount of the note will increase by the amount of any
future asset transfers. NB Holdings also provided the parent
company with a commi tted line of credit that allows the parent
company to draw funds necessary to service near-term cash
needs. These arrangements support our preferred single point of
entry resolution strategy , under which only the parent company
would be resolved under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. These
arrangements include provisions to terminate the line of credit,
forgive the subordinated note and require the parent company to
transfer its remaining financial assets to NB Holdings if our
projected liquidity resources deteriorate so severely that
resolution of the parent company becomes imminent.Global Liquidity Sources and Other Unencumbered
Assets
We maintain liquidity available to the Corporation, including the
parent company and selected subsidiaries, in the form of cash
and high-quality , liquid, unencumbered securities. Our liquidity
buffer, referred to as Global Liquidity Sources (GLS), is
comprised of assets that are readily available to the parent
company and selected subsidiaries, including holding company ,
bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries, even during stressed
market cond itions. Our cash is primarily on deposit with the
Federal Reserve Bank and, to a lesser extent, central banks
outside of the U.S. We limit the composition of high-quality , liquid,
unencumbered securitie s to U.S. government  securities, U.S.
agency securities, U.S. agency MBS and other investment-grade
securities, and a select group of non-U.S. government securities.
We can obtain cash for these securities, even in stressed
conditions, through repurchase agreements or outright sales. We
hold our GLS in legal entities that allow us to meet the liquidity
requirements of our global businesses, and we consider the
impact of potential regulatory , tax, legal and other restrictions that
could limit the transferability of funds among entities.
Table 15 presents average GLS for the three months ended
December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Table 15Average Global Liquidity Sources
Three Months Ended
December 31
(Dollars in billions) 2021 2020
Bank entities $ 1,006 $ 773 
Nonbank and other entities 152 170 
Total Average Global Liquidity
Sources $ 1,158 $ 943 
Nonbank includes Parent, NB Holdings and other regulated entities.
Our bank subsidiaries’  liquidity is primarily driven by deposit
and lending activity , as well as securities valuation and net debt
activity . Bank subsidiarie s can also generate incremental liquidity
by pledging a range of unencumbered loans and securities to
certain FHLBs and the Federal Reserve Discount Window . The
cash we could have obtained by borrowing against this pool of
specifically-identified eligible assets was $322 billion and $306
billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020. We have established
operational procedures to enable us to borrow against these
assets, including regularly monitoring our total pool of eligible
loans and securities collateral. Eligibility is defined in guidelines
from the FHLBs and the Federal Reserve and is subject to
change at their discretion. Due to regulatory restrictions, liquidity
generated by the bank subsidiaries can generally be used only to
fund obligations within the bank subsidiaries, and transfers to the
parent comp any or nonbank subsidiaries may be subject to prior
regulatory approval.
Liquidity is also held in nonbank entities, includin g the Parent,
NB Holdings and other regulated entities. Parent company and
NB Holdings liquidity is typically in the form of cash deposited at
BANA, which is exclude d from the liquidity at bank subsidiaries,
and high-quality , liquid, unencumbered securitie s. Liquidity held
in other regulated entities, comprised primarily of broker-dealer
subsidiaries, is primarily available to meet the obligations of that
entity , and transfers to the parent company or to any other
subsidiary may be subject to prior regulatory approval due to
regulatory restrictions and minimum requirements. Our other
regulated entities also hold unencumbered investment-grade
securities and equities that we believe could be used to generate
additional liquidity .(1)
(1) 
55 Bank of America
Table 16 presents the composition of average GLS for the
three months ended December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Table 16Average Global Liquidity Sources
Composition
Three Months Ended
December 31
(Dollars in billions) 2021 2020
Cash on deposit $ 259 $ 322 
U.S. Treasury securities 278 141 
U.S. agency securities, mortgage-backed
securities, and other investment-grade
securities 606 462 
Non-U.S. government securities 15 18 
Total Average Global Liquidity Sources $ 1,158 $ 943 
Our GLS are substantia lly the same in composition to what
qualifies as High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA) under the final
U.S. Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) rules. However , HQLA  for
purposes of calculating LCR is not reported at market value, but
at a lower value that incorporates regulatory deductions and the
exclusion of excess liquidity held at certain subsidiaries. The LCR
is calculated as the amount of a financial institution’ s
unencumbered HQLA  relative to the estimated net cash outflows
the institution could encounter over a 30-day period of significant
liquidity stress, expressed as a percentage. Our average
consolidated HQLA, on a net basis, was $617 billion and $584
billion for the three mont hs ended December 31, 2021 and 2020.
For the same periods, the average consolidated LCR was 115
percent and 122 perce nt. Our LCR fluctuates due to normal
business flows from customer activity .
Liquidity Stress Analysis
We utilize liquidity stress  analysis to assist us in determining the
appropriate amounts of liquidity to maintain at the parent
company and our subsidiaries to meet contractual and contingent
cash outflow s under a range of scenarios. The scenarios we
consider and utilize incorporate market-wide and Corporation-
specific events, including potential credit rating downgrades for
the parent company and our subsidiaries, and more severe
events includ ing potentia l resolution scenarios. The scenarios are
based on our historical experience, experience of distressed and
failed financial institutions, regulatory guidance, and both
expected and unexpected future events.
The types of potential contractual and contingent cash
outflows we consider in our scenarios may include, but are not
limited to, upcoming contractual maturities of unsecured debt and
reductions in new debt issuances; diminished access to secured
financing markets; potential deposit withdrawals; increased
draws on loan commitments, liquidity facilities and letters of
credit; additional collateral that counterparties could call if our
credit ratings were downgraded; collateral and margin
requirements arising from market value changes; and potential
liquidity required to maintain businesses and finance customer
activities. Changes in certain market factors, including, but not
limited to, credit rating  downgrades, could negatively impact
potential contractual and contingent outflows and the related
financial instruments, and in some cases these impacts could be
material to our financial results.
We consider  all sources of funds that we could access during
each stress scenario and focus particularly on matching available
sources with corresponding liquidity requirements by legal entity .
We also use the stress modeling results to manage our asset
and liability profile and establish limits and guidelines on certain
funding sources and businesses.Net Stable Funding Ratio Final Rule
On October 20, 2020, U.S. banking regulators finalized the Net
Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR), a rule requiring large banks to
maintain a minimum level of stable funding over a one-year
period. The final rule is intended to support the ability of banks to
lend to households and businesses in both normal and adverse
economic conditions and is complementary to the LCR rule,
which focus es on short-term liquidity risks. The final rule was
effective July 1, 2021, and the Corporation is in compliance. The
U.S. NSFR applies to the Corporation on a consolidated basis
and to our insured depo sitory institutions. There have not been
any significant impacts to the Corporation.
Diversified Funding Sources
We fund our assets primarily with a mix of deposits, and secured
and unsecured liabilities through a centralized, globally
coordinated funding approach diversified across products,
programs, markets, currencies and investor groups.
The primary benefits of our centralized funding approach
include greater control, reduced funding costs, wider name
recognition by investors and greater flexibility to meet the
variable funding requirements of subsidiaries. Where regulations,
time zone differences or other business cons iderations make
parent comp any fundin g impractical, certain other subsidiaries
may issue their own debt.
We fund a substantial portion of our lending activities through
our deposit s, which were $2.1 trillion and $1.8 trillion at
December 31, 2021 and 2020. Deposits are primarily generated
by our Consumer Banking , GWIM  and Global Banking segments.
These deposits are diversified by clients, product type and
geography , and the majority of our U.S. deposits are insured by
the FDIC. We consider a substantial portion of our deposits to be
a stable, low-cost and consistent source of funding. We believe
this deposit funding is generally less sensitive to interest rate
changes, market volatility or changes in our credit ratings than
wholesale funding sources. Our lending activities may also be
financed through secured borrowings, includ ing credit card
securitizations and securitizations with government-sponsored
enterprises (GSE), the Federal Housing Administration (FHA)
and private-label investors, as well as FHLB loans.
Our trading activities in other regulated entities are primarily
funded on a secured basis through securities lending and
repurchase agreements, and these amounts will vary based on
customer activity and market conditions. We believe funding
these activities in the secured financing markets is more cost-
efficient and less sensitive to changes in our credit ratings than
unsecured financing. Repurchase agreement s are generally
short-term and often overnight. Disruptions in secured financing
markets for financial institutions have occurred in prior market
cycles which resulted in adverse changes in terms or significant
reductions in the availability of such financing. We manage the
liquidity risks arising from secured funding by sourcing funding
globally from a diverse group of counterparties, providing a range
of securities  collateral and pursuing longer durations, when
appropriate. For more information on secured financing
agreements, see Note 10 – Securities Financing Agreements,
Short-term Borrowings and Restricted Cash  to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
Total long-term debt increased $17.2 billion to $280.1 billion
during 2021 , primarily due to debt issuances, partially offset by
debt maturities, redemptions and valuation adjus tments. We may,
from time to time, purchase outstanding debt instruments in
various transactions, depending on market conditions, liquidity
and other factors. Our other regulated
Bank of America 56
entities may also make markets in our debt instruments to
provide liquidity for investors.
During 2021, we issued $76.7 billion of long-term debt
consisting of $56.2 billion of notes issued by Bank of America
Corporation, substantially all of which were TLAC compliant, $8.0
billion of notes issued by Bank of America, N.A. and $12.5 billion
of other debt. During 2020, we issued $56.9 billion of long-term
debt consisting of $43.8 billion of notes issued by Bank of
America Corporation, substantially all of which were TLAC
compliant, $4.8 billion of notes issued by Bank of America, N.A.
and $8.3 billion of other debt.
During 2021, we had total long-term debt maturities and
redemptions in the aggregate of $46.4 billion consisting of $24.4
billion for Bank of Ameri ca Corporation, $10.4 billion for Bank of
America, N.A. and $11.6 billion of other debt. During 2020, we
had total long-term debt maturities and redemptions in the
aggregate of $47.1 billion consisting of $22.6 billion for Bank of
America Corporation, $11.5 billion for Bank of America, N.A. and
$13.0 billion of other debt.
At December 31, 2021, Bank of America Corporation's senior
notes of $212.9 billion included $179.5 billion of outstanding
notes that are both TLAC eligible and callable at least one year
before their stated maturities. Of these senior notes, $15.0 billion
will be callable and become TLAC ineligible during 2022, and
$17.0 billion, $17.8 billion, $15.0 billion and $17.7 billion will do
so during each of 2023  through 2026, respec tively , and $97.0
billion thereafter .
We issue long-term unsecured debt in a variety  of maturities
and currencies to achieve cost-ef ficient funding and to maintain
an appropriate maturity profile. While the cost and availability of
unsecured funding may be negatively impacted by general
market conditions or by matters specific to the financial services
industry or the Corporat ion, we seek to mitigate refinancing risk
by actively managing the amount of our borrowings that we
anticipate will mature within any month or quarte r. We may issue
unsecured debt in the form of structured notes for client
purposes, certain of which qualify as TLAC-eligible debt. During
2021, we issued $7.1 billion of structured notes, which are debt
obligations that pay investors returns linked to other debt or
equity secur ities, indices, currencies or commodi ties. We typically
hedge the returns we are obligated to pay on these liabilities with
derivatives and/or investments in the underlying  instruments, so
that from a funding perspective, the cost is similar to our other
unsecured long-term debt. We could be required to settle certain
structured note obligations for cash or other securities prior to
maturity under certain circumstances, which we consider for
liquidity planning purposes. We believe, however , that a portion
of such borrowings will remain outstanding beyond the earliest
put or redemption date.
Substantially all of our senior and subor dinated debt
obligations contain no provisions that could trigger a requirement
for an early  repayment, require additional collateral support,
result in changes to terms, accelerate maturity or create
additional financial obligations upon an adverse change in our
credit ratings , financial ratios, earnings, cash flows or stock price.
For more information on long-term debt funding, including
issuances and maturities  and redemptions, see Note 11 – Long-
term Debt  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We use derivative transactions to manage the duration,
interest rate and currency risks of our borrowings, considering
the characte ristics of the assets they are funding. For more
information on our ALM activities, see Interest Rate Risk
Management for the Banking Book on page 79.Uninsured Deposits
The FDIC insures the Corporation’ s U.S. deposits up to $250,000
per depositor , per insured bank for each account ownership
category , and various country-specific funds insure non-U.S.
deposits up to specified limits. Deposits that exceed insurance
limits are uninsured. At December 31, 2021, the Corporation’ s
deposits totaled $2.1 trillion, of which total estimated uninsured
U.S. and non-U.S. deposits were $701.4 billion and $111.9
billion. At December 31, 2020, the Corporation’ s deposits totaled
$1.8 trillion, of which total estimated uninsured U.S. and non-U.S.
deposits were $597.7 billion and $104.1 billion.
Table 17 presents information about the Corpo ration’ s total
estimated uninsured time deposits. For more information on our
liquidity sources, see Global Liquidity Sources and Other
Unencumbered Assets, and for more information on deposits,
see Diversified Funding Sources in this section. For more
information on contractu al time deposit maturitie s, see Note 9 –
Deposits  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Table 17Uninsured Time Deposits 
  December 31, 2021
(Dollars in millions) U.S. Non-U.S. Total
Uninsured time deposits with a
maturity of:
3 months or less $ 2,337 $ 7,274 $ 9,611 
Over 3 months through 6 months 1,668 1,663 3,331 
Over 6 months through 12 months 1,942 239 2,181 
Over 12 months 289 1,470 1,759 
Total $ 6,236 $ 10,646 $ 16,882 
Amounts are estimated based on the regulatory methodologies defined by each local
jurisdiction.
Contingency Planning
We maintain contingency funding plans that outline our potential
responses to liquidity stress events at various levels of severity .
These policies and plans are based on stres s scenarios and
include potential funding strategies and communication and
notification procedures that we would implemen t in the event we
experienced stressed liquidity conditions. We periodically review
and test the contingenc y funding plans to validate efficacy and
assess readiness.
Our U.S. bank subsidia ries can access conting ency funding
through the Federal Reserve Discount Window . Certain non-U.S.
subsidiaries have access to central bank facilities in the
jurisdictions in which they operate. While we do not rely on these
sources in our liquidity modeling, we maintain the policies,
procedures and governance processes that would enable us to
access these sources if necessary .
Credit Ratings
Our borrowi ng costs and ability to raise funds are impacted by
our credit ratings. In addition, credit ratings may be important to
customers or counterparties when we compete in certain markets
and when we seek to engage in certain transactions, including
over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives. Thus, it is our objective to
maintain high-quality credit ratings, and manag ement maintains
an active dialogue with the major rating agencies.
Credit ratings and outlooks are opinions expressed by rating
agencies on our creditworthiness and that of our obligations or
securities, including long-term debt, short-term borrowings,
preferred stock and other securities, including asset
securitizations. Our credit ratings are subject to ongoing review(1)
(1)
57 Bank of America
by the rating agencies, and they consider a number of factors,
including our own financial strength, performanc e, prospects and
operations as well as factors not under our control. The rating
agencies could make adjustments to our ratings at any time, and
they provide  no assurances that they will mainta in our ratings at
current levels.
Other factors that influence our credit ratings include changes
to the rating agencies’  methodologies for our industry or certain
security types; the rating agencies’  assessment of the general
operating environment for financial services companies; our
relative positions in the markets in which we compete; our
various risk exposures and risk manageme nt policies and
activities; pending litigation and other contingen cies or potential
tail risks; our reputation;  our liquidity position, diversity of funding
sources and funding costs; the current and expected level and
volatility of our earnings; our capital position and capital
management practices; our corporate governanc e; the sovereign
credit ratings of the U.S. government; current or future regulatory
and legislativ e initiatives; and the agencies’  views on whether the
U.S. government would provide meaningful support to the
Corporation or its subsidiaries in a crisis.On May 24, 2021, Standard & Poor ’s Global Ratings (S&P)
affirmed the current ratings of the Corporation and its
subsidiaries, while at the same time revising its rating outlook to
Positive from Stable.
On June 7, 2021, Fitch Ratings (Fitch) upgraded the long-
term senior debt ratings of the Corporation and its rated
subsidiaries by one notch, to AA- and AA, respectively . Fitch also
upgraded the Corporation’ s short-term rating to F1+ which is now
aligned with the short-term rating of its subsidiaries, including
BANA. Following the upgrade, the rating outlook for the
Corporation and its subsidiaries is Stable.
On Novemb er 22, 2021, Moody’ s Investors Service (Moody’ s)
affirmed the current ratings of the Corporation and its
subsidiaries, while at the same time revising its rating outlook to
Positive from Stable.
Table 18 presents the Corporation’ s current long-term/short-
term senior debt ratings  and outlooks expressed by the rating
agencies.
Table 18Senior Debt Ratings
Moody’s Investors Service Standard & Poor’s Global Ratings Fitch Ratings
Long-term Short-term Outlook Long-term Short-term Outlook Long-term Short-term Outlook
Bank of America Corporation A2 P-1 Positive A- A-2 Positive AA- F1+ Stable
Bank of America, N.A. Aa2 P-1 Positive A+ A-1 Positive AA F1+ Stable
Bank of America Europe Designated
Activity Company NR NR NR A+ A-1 Positive AA F1+ Stable
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &
Smith Incorporated NR NR NR A+ A-1 Positive AA F1+ Stable
BofA Securities, Inc. NR NR NR A+ A-1 Positive AA F1+ Stable
Merrill Lynch International NR NR NR A+ A-1 Positive AA F1+ Stable
BofA Securities Europe SA NR NR NR A+ A-1 Positive AA F1+ Stable
NR = not rated
A reduction in certain of our credit ratings or the ratings of
certain asset-backed securitizations may have a material adverse
effect on our liquidity , potential loss of access to credit markets,
the related cost of funds, our businesses and on certain
revenues, particularly in those businesses where counterparty
creditworthiness is critical. In addition, under the terms of certain
OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements, in the
event of downgrades of our or our rated subsidiaries’  credit
ratings, the counterparties to those agreements may require us to
provide additional collateral, or to terminate these contracts or
agreements, which could cause us to sustain losses and/or
adversely impact our liquidity . If the short-term credit ratings of
our parent company , bank or broker-dealer subsidiaries were
downgraded by one or more levels, the potential loss of access
to short-term funding sources such as repo financing and the
effect on our incremental cost of funds could be material.
While certain potential impacts are contractual and
quantifiable, the full scope of the consequences of a credit rating
downgrade to a financial institution is inherently uncertain, as it
depends upon numerous dynamic, complex and inter-related
factors and assumptions, including whether any downgrade of a
company’ s long-term credit ratings precipitates downgrades to its
short-term credit ratings , and assumptions about the potential
behaviors of various customers, investors and counterparties.
For more information on potential impacts of credit rating
downgrades, see Liquidity Risk – Liquidity Stress Analysis on
page 56.
For more information on additional collateral and terminationpayments that could be required in connection with certain OTC
derivative contracts and other trading agreemen ts as a result of
such a credit rating downgrade, see Note 3 – Derivatives  to the
Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors.
Common Stock Dividends
For a summary of our declared quarterly cash dividends on
common stock during 2021 and through February 22, 2022, see
Note 13 – Shareholders’  Equity  to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
Finance Subsidiary Issuers and Parent Guarantor
BofA  Finance LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (BofA
Finance), is a consolidated finance subsidiary of the Corporation
that has issued and sold, and is expected to continue to issue
and sell, its senior unsecured debt securities (Guaranteed Notes)
that are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Corporation.
The Corporation guarantees the due and punctual payment, on
demand, of amounts payable on the Guarante ed Notes if not
paid by BofA  Finance. In addition, each of BAC Capital Trust XIII,
BAC Capital Trust XIV and BAC Capital Trust XV, Delaware
statutory trusts (collectiv ely, the Trusts), is a 100 percent owned
finance subs idiary of the Corporation that has issued and sold
trust preferr ed securities (the Trust Preferred Securities) or
capital securities (the Capital Securities and, together with the
Guaranteed Notes and the Trust Preferred Securities, the
Guaranteed Securities), as applicable, that remained outstanding
at December 31, 2021. The Corporation guarantees the payment
of amounts and distributions with
Bank of America 58
respect to the Trust Preferred Securities and Capital Securities if
not paid by the Trusts, to the extent of funds held by the Trusts,
and this guarantee, together with the Corporation’ s other
obligations with respect to the Trust Preferred Securities and
Capital Securities, effectively constitutes a full and unconditional
guarantee of the Trusts’  payment obligations on the Trust
Preferred Securities or Capital Securities, as applicable. No other
subsidiary of the Corporation guarantees the Guaranteed
Securities.
BofA  Finance and each of the Trusts are finance subsidiaries,
have no independent assets, revenues or operations and are
dependent upon the Corporation and/or the Corporation’ s other
subsidiaries to meet their respective obligations under the
Guaranteed Securities in the ordinary course. If holders of the
Guaranteed Securities make claims on their Guaranteed
Securities in a bankruptcy , resolution or similar proceeding, any
recoveries on those claims will be limited to those available under
the applicable guarantee by the Corporation, as described above.
The Corporation is a holding company and depends upon its
subsidiaries for liquidity . Applicable laws and regulations and
intercompany arrangem ents entered into in connection with the
Corporation’ s resolution  plan could restrict the availability of
funds from subsidiaries to the Corporation, which could adversely
affect the Corporation’ s ability to make payments under its
guarantees. In addition, the obligations of the Corporation under
the guarantees of the Guaranteed Securities will be structurally
subordinated to all existi ng and future liabilities of its subsidiaries,
and claiman ts should look only to assets of the Corporation for
payments. If the Corporation, as guarantor of the Guaranteed
Notes, trans fers all or substantially all of its assets to one or more
direct or indirect majority-owned subsidiaries, under the indenture
governing the Guaranteed Notes, the subsidiary or subsidiaries
will not be required to assume the Corporation’ s obligations
under its guarantee of the Guaranteed Notes.
For more information on factors that may affect payments to
holders of the Guarante ed Securities, see Liquidity Risk – NB
Holdings Corporation in this section, Item 1. Business –
Insolvency and the Orderly Liquidation Authority on page 5 and
Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors – Liquidity on page 10.
Representations and Warranties Obligations
For information on repre sentations and warranties obligations in
connection with the sale of mortgage loans, see Note 12 –
Commitments and Contingencies  to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
Credit Risk Management
Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from the inability or failure of
a borrower or counterparty to meet its obligations. Credit risk can
also arise from operational failures that result in an erroneous
advance, commitment or investment of funds. We define the
credit exposure to a borrower or counterparty as the loss
potential arising from all product classifications including loans
and leases, deposit overdrafts, derivatives, assets held-for-sale
and unfund ed lending  commitments which include loan
commitments, letters of credit and financial guarantees.
Derivative positions are recorded at fair value and assets held-
for-sale are recorded at either fair value or the lower of cost or
fair value. Certain loans and unfunded commitments are
accounted for under the fair value option. Credit risk for
categories of assets carried at fair value is not accounted for as
part of the allowance for credit losses but as part of the fair value
adjustments recorded in earnings. For derivative positions,our credit risk is measured as the net cost in the event the
counterparties with contracts in which we are in a gain position
fail to perform under the terms of those contracts. We use the
current fair value to represent credit exposure without giving
consideration to future mark-to-market changes. The credit risk
amounts take into consideration the effects of legally enforceable
master netting agreeme nts and cash collateral. Our consumer
and commercial credit extension and review procedures
encompass funded and unfunded credit exposures. For more
information on derivatives and credit extension commitments,
see Note 3 – Derivatives  and Note 12 – Commitments and
Contingencies  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We manage  credit risk based on the risk profile of the
borrower or counterparty , repayment sources, the nature of
underlying collateral and other support given current events,
conditions and expectations. We classify our portfolios as either
consumer or commercial and monitor credit risk in each as
discussed below .
We refine our underwriting and credit risk management
practices as well as credit standards to meet the changing
economic environment. To mitigate losses and enhance
customer support in our consumer businesses, we have in place
collection programs and loan modification and customer
assistance infrastructures. We utilize a number of actions to
mitigate losses in the commercial businesses including
increasing the frequency and intensity of portfolio monitoring,
hedging activity and our practice of transferring management of
deteriorating commercia l exposures to independ ent special asset
officers as credits enter criticized categories .
For information on our credit risk management activities, see
Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management below , Commercial
Portfolio Credit Risk Management on page 65, Non-U.S. Portfolio
on page 71, Allowance for Credit Losses on page 73, and Note 5
– Outstanding Loans and Leases and Allowance for Credit
Losses  to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For more
information on the facto rs that may expose us to credit risk, see
Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors - Credit on page 12.
During 2021, the economy gained momentum as
unemployment continue d to decline from double-digit highs
during 2020 and the economy re-opened as vaccination rates
increased and restrictions eased. With the easing of restrictions,
we saw increased business openings, a rebound to commercial
and consumer spending, higher asset values  and increased
global GDP, all of which positively impacted our consumer and
commercial credit portfolios. Additionally , individuals and
businesses in the U.S. benefited from various forms of
government support through economic stimulus packages
enacted in 2020 and 2021, which contributed to strong asset
quality across our credit portfolios.
As a result of the economic recovery experienced in 2021, net
charge-of fs, nonperform ing loans and commercial reservable
criticized exposure declined compared to 2020. While there has
been significant economic improvement in comparison to 2020,
uncertainty remains about the timing and strength of the
economy’ s recovery , which may also be hampered by supply
chain disruptions and inflationary pressures and could lead to
adverse impacts to credit quality metrics in future periods. The
pandemic and its full impact on the global economy continue to
be highly uncertain. While COVID-19 cases eased throughout the
majority of 2021, they reached new highs by the end of 2021,
and the spread of new, more contagious varia nts could impact
the magnitude and duration of this health crisis. However ,
ongoing virus containment efforts and vaccination progress,
could support the macroeconomic recovery .
59 Bank of America
For more information on how the pandemic may affect our
operations, see Executive Summary – Recent Developments –
COVID-19 Pandemic on page 27 and Item 1A. Risk Factors –
Coronavirus Disease on page 7.
Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management
Credit risk management for the consumer portfolio begins with
initial underwriting and continues throughout a borrower ’s credit
cycle. Statistical techniques in conjunction with experiential
judgment are used in all aspects of portfolio management
including underwriting, product pricing, risk appetite, setting credit
limits, and establishing operating processes and metrics to
quantify and balance risks and returns. Statistical models are
built using detailed beha vioral information from external sources
such as credit bureaus and/or internal historical experience and
are a component of our consumer credit risk management
process. These models are used in part to assist in making both
new and ongoing credit decisions, as well as portfolio
management strategie s, including authorizations and line
management, collectio n practices and strategies, and
determination of the allowance for loan and lease losses and
allocated capital for credit risk.Consumer Credit Portfolio
The economic environment improved during 2021, with the U.S.
unemployment rate continuing to decline and home prices
increasing. During 2021 , net charge-of fs decreased $805 million
to $1.8 billion primarily due to lower credit card losses, as the
impact of government stimulus measures were partially offset by
charge-of fs associated with deferrals that expired in 2020. During
2021, nonperforming loans increased due to deferral activity .
The consumer allowance for loan and lease losses decreased
$3.0 billion in 2021 to $7.0 billion primarily due to improvements
in the macroeconomic outlook and credit quality . For more
information, see Allowance for Credit Losses on page 73.
For more information on our accounting policies regarding
delinquencies, nonperforming status, charge-of fs and troubled
debt restructurings (TDRs) for the consumer portfolio, as well as
interest accrual policies and delinquency status for loan
modifications related to the pandemic, see Note 1 – Summary of
Significant Accounting Principles  and Note 5 – Outstanding
Loans and Leases and Allowance for Credit Losses  to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Table 19 presents our outstanding consume r loans and
leases, cons umer nonp erforming loans and accruing consumer
loans past due 90 days or more.
Table 19Consumer Credit Quality
 Outstandings NonperformingAccruing Past Due
90 Days or More
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020
Residential mortgage $ 221,963 $ 223,555 $ 2,284 $ 2,005 $ 634 $ 762 
Home equity 27,935 34,311 630 649 — — 
Credit card 81,438 78,708 n/a n/a 487 903 
Direct/Indirect consumer 103,560 91,363 75 71 11 33 
Other consumer 190 124 — — — — 
Consumer loans excluding loans accounted for under
the fair value option $ 435,086 $ 428,061 $ 2,989 $ 2,725 $ 1,132 $ 1,698 
Loans accounted for under the fair value option 618 735 
Total consumer loans and leases $ 435,704 $ 428,796 
Percentage of outstanding consumer loans and leases n/a n/a 0.69 % 0.64 % 0.26 % 0.40 %
Percentage of outstanding consumer loans and leases,
excluding fully-insured loan portfolios n/a n/a 0.71 0.65 0.12 0.22 
Residential mortgage loans accruing  past due 90 days or more are fully-insured loans. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, residential mortgage includes $444 million and $537 million of loans on which
interest had been curtailed by the FHA, and therefore were no longer accruing interest, although principal was still insured, and $190 million and $225 million of loans on which interest was still
accruing.
Outstandings primarily include auto and specialty lending loans and leases of $48.5 billion and $46.4 billion, U.S. securities-based lending loans of $51.1 billion and $41.1 billion and non-U.S.
consumer loans of $3.0 billion and $3.0 billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
For more information on the fair value option, see Note 21 – Fair V alue Option  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Excludes consume r loans accounted for under the fair value option. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, $21 million and $11 million of loans accounted for under the fair value option were past due 90
days or more and not accruing interest.
n/a = not applicable
Table 20 presents net charge-of fs and related ratios for consumer loans and leases.
Table 20Consumer Net Charge-offs and Related Ratios
Net Charge-offs Net Charge-off Ratios 
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2021 2020
Residential mortgage $ (28)$ (30) (0.01)% (0.01)%
Home equity (119) (73) (0.39) (0.19)
Credit card 1,723 2,349 2.29 2.76 
Direct/Indirect consumer 1 122 — 0.14 
Other consumer 270 284 n/m n/m
Total $ 1,847 $ 2,652 0.44 0.59 
Net charge-of f ratios are calculated as net charge-of fs divided by average outstanding loans and leases excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option.
n/m = not meaningful (1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(1)
Bank of America 60
We believe that the presentation of information adjusted to
exclude the impact of the fully-insured loan portfolio and loans
accounted for under the fair value option is more representative
of the ongoing operations and credit quality of the business. As a
result, in the following tables and discussions of the residential
mortgage and home equity portfolios, we exclude loans
accounted for under the fair value option and provide information
that excludes the impa ct of the fully-insured loan portfolio in
certain credit quality statistics.
Residential Mortgage
The residential mortgage portfolio made up the largest
percentage of our consumer loan portfolio at 51 percent of
consumer loans and leases in 2021. Approximately 52 percent of
the residential mortgage portfolio was in Consumer Bankingand 43 percent was in GWIM. The remaining portion was in All
Other .
Outstanding balances in the residential mortgage portfolio
decreased $1.6 billion in 2021 as paydowns were partially offset
by originations.
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, the residential mortgage
portfolio included $12.7 billion and $11.8 billion of outstanding
fully-insured loans, of which $2.2 billion and $2.8 billion had FHA
insurance, with the remainder protected by Fannie Mae long-term
standby agreements.
Table 21 presents certain residential mortgage key credit
statistics on both a reported basis and excluding  the fully-insured
loan portfolio. The follow ing discussion presents the residential
mortgage portfolio excluding the fully-insured loan portfolio.
Table 21Residential Mortgage – Key Credit
Statistics
Reported Basis Excluding Fully-insured Loans
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2021 2020
Outstandings $ 221,963 $ 223,555 $ 209,259 $ 211,737 
Accruing past due 30 days or more 1,753 2,314 866 1,224 
Accruing past due 90 days or more 634 762 — — 
Nonperforming loans 2,284 2,005 2,284 2,005 
Percent of portfolio     
Refreshed LTV greater than 90 but less than or equal to 100 1 % 2 % 1 % 1 %
Refreshed LTV greater than 100 — 1 — 1 
Refreshed FICO below 620 2 2 1 1 
Outstandings, accruing past due, nonperforming loans and percentages of portfolio exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. For information on our interest accrual policies and
delinquency status for loan modifications related to the pandemic, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Includes loans that are contractually  current which primarily consist of collateral-dependent TDRs, including those that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy and loans that have not yet
demonstrated a sustained period of payment performance following a TDR.
Nonperforming outstanding balances in the residential
mortgage portfolio increased $279 million in 2021 primarily driven
by deferral activity . Of the nonperforming resid ential mortgage
loans at December 31, 2021, $1.2 billion, or 51 percent, were
current on contractual payments. Loans accruing past due 30
days or more decreased $358 million driven by continued
improvement in credit quality .
Net recoveries of $28 million in 2021 remained relatively
unchanged compared to 2020.
Of the $209.3 billion in total residential mortgage loans
outstanding at December 31, 2021, 27 percent were originated
as interest-only loans. The outstanding balance of interest-only
residential mortgage loans that have entered the amortization
period was $4.8 billion, or eight percent, at December 31, 2021.
Residential mortgage loans that have entered the amortization
period generally experienced a higher rate of early stage
delinquencies and nonperforming status compared to the
residential mortgage portfolio as a whole. At December 31, 2021,
$66 million , or one percent, of outstanding interest-only
residential mortgages that had entered the amortization period
were accrui ng past due 30 days or more compared to $866
million, or less than one percent, for the entire residentialmortgage portfolio. In addition, at December 31, 2021, $275
million, or six percent, of outstanding interes t-only residential
mortgage loans that had entered the amortization period were
nonperforming, of which $83 million were contractually current
compared to $2.3 billion, or one percent, for the entire residential
mortgage portfolio. Loans that have yet to enter the amortization
period in our interest-only residential mortga ge portfolio are
primarily well-collateralized loans to our wealth management
clients and have an interest-only period of three to ten years.
Approximately 91 percent of these loans that have yet to enter
the amortization period will not be required to make a fully-
amortizing payment until 2025 or later .
Table 22 presents outsta ndings, nonperforming loans and net
charge-of fs by certain state concentrations for the residential
mortgage portfolio. The Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana
Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) within California represented
15 percent and 16 percent of outstandings at December 31, 2021
and 2020. In the New York area, the New York-Northern New
Jersey-Long Island MSA  made up 15 percent and 14 percent of
outstandings at December 31, 2021 and 2020.(1)  (1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
61 Bank of America
Table 22Residential Mortgage State Concentrations
Outstandings Nonperforming 
December 31 Net Charge-offs
(Dollars in millions)December 31
2021December 31
2020December 31
2021December 31
2020 2021 2020
California $ 77,819 $ 83,185 $ 693 $ 570 $ (14)$ (18)
New York 24,975 23,832 358 272 3 3 
Florida 13,883 13,017 158 175 (8) (5)
Texas 9,002 8,868 86 78 — — 
New Jersey 8,723 8,806 117 98 — (1)
Other 74,857 74,029 872 812 (9) (9)
Residential mortgage loans $ 209,259 $ 211,737 $ 2,284 $ 2,005 $ (28)$ (30)
Fully-insured loan portfolio 12,704 11,818   
Total residential mortgage loan portfolio $ 221,963 $ 223,555   
Outstandings and nonperforming loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.
Home Equity
At December 31, 2021, the home equity portfolio made up six
percent of the consumer portfolio and was comprised of home
equity lines of credit (HELOCs), home equity loans and reverse
mortgages. HELOCs generally have an initial draw period of 10
years, and after the initial draw period ends, the loans generally
convert to 15- or 20-year amortizing loans. We no longer
originate home equity loans or reverse mortgages.
At Decembe r 31, 2021, 80 percent of the home equity portfolio
was in Consumer Banking , 11 percent  was in All Other and the
remainder of the portfolio was primarily in GWIM . Outstanding
balances in the home equity portfolio decreased $6.4 billion in
2021 primarily due to paydowns outpacing neworiginations and draws on existing lines. Of the total home equity
portfolio at December 31, 2021 and 2020, $12.2 billion, or 44
percent, and $13.8 billion, or 40 percent, were in first-lien
positions. At December 31, 2021, outstanding balances in the
home equity portfolio that were in a second-lien or more junior-
lien position and where  we also held the first-lien loan totaled
$4.6 billion, or 16 percent of our total home equity portfolio.
Unused HELOCs totaled $40.5 billion and $42.3 billion at
December 31, 2021 and 2020. The HELOC utilization rate was
39 percent and 43 percent at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Table 23 presents certain home equity portfolio key credit
statistics.
Table 23Home Equity – Key Credit Statistics 
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Outstandings $ 27,935 $ 34,311 
Accruing past due 30 days or more 157 186 
Nonperforming loans 630 649 
Percent of portfolio
Refreshed CLTV greater than 90 but less than or equal to 100 — % 1 %
Refreshed CLTV greater than 100 1 1 
Refreshed FICO below 620 3 3 
Outstandings, accruing past due, nonperforming loans and percentages of the portfolio exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. For information on our interest accrual policies and
delinquency status for loan modifications related to the pandemic, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Includes loans that are contractually  current which primarily consist of collateral-dependent TDRs, including those that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy , junior-lien loans where the
underlying first lien is 90 days or more past due, as well as loans that have not yet demonstrated a sustained period of payment performance following a TDR.
Nonperforming outstand ing balances in the home equity
portfolio remained relativ ely flat at $630 million at December 31,
2021. Of the nonperforming home equity loans at December 31,
2021, $227 million, or 36 percent, were curren t on contractual
payments. In addition, $273 million, or 43 percent of
nonperforming home equity loans were 180 days or more past
due and had been written down to the estimated fair value of the
collateral, less costs to sell. Accruing loans that were 30 days or
more past due decreased $29 million in 2021.
Net recoveri es increased $46 million to $119 million in 2021
compared to the same period in 2020. The increase was driven
by favorable portfolio trends due in part to improvement in home
prices.
Of the $27.9 billion in total home equity portfolio outstandings
at December 31, 2021, as shown in Table 23, 14 percent require
interest-only payments. The outstanding balance  of HELOCs that
have reached the end of their draw period and have entered the
amortization period was $6.8 billion at December 31, 2021. The
HELOCs that have entered the amortization period have
experienced a higher percentage of early stage delinquencies
and nonperforming status whencompared to the HELOC portfolio as a whole. At December 31,
2021, $105 million, or two percent, of outstanding HELOCs that
had entered  the amortization period were accruing past due 30
days or more. In addition, at December 31, 2021, $455 million, or
seven percent, were nonperforming. Loans that have yet to enter
the amortization period in our interest-only portfolio are primarily
post-2008 vintages and generally have better credit quality than
the previous vintages that had entered the amortization period.
We communicate to contractually current customers more than a
year prior to the end of their draw period to inform them of the
potential change to the payment structure before entering the
amortization period, and provide payment options to customers
prior to the end of the draw period.
Although we do not actively track how many of our home
equity customers pay only the minimum amount due on their
home equity loans and lines, we can infer some of this
information through a review of our HELOC portfolio that we
service and that is still in its revolving period. During 2021, nine
percent of these custom ers with an outstanding balance did not
pay any principal on their HELOCs. (1) (1)
(1)
(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
Bank of America 62
Table 24 presents outstandings, nonperforming balances and
net recoveries by certain state concentrations for the home equity
portfolio. In the New York area, the New York-Northern New
Jersey-Long Island MSA  made up 13 percent of the outstanding
home equity portfolio at both December 31, 2021and 2020. The Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana MSA  within
California made up 10 percent and 11 percent of the outstanding
home equity portfolio at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Table 24Home Equity State Concentrations
Outstandings Nonperforming 
December 31 Net Recoveries
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020
California $ 7,600 $ 9,488 $ 140 $ 143 $ (40)$ (26)
Florida 2,977 3,715 78 80 (21) (11)
New Jersey 2,259 2,749 69 67 (4) (3)
New York 2,072 2,495 96 103 (1) (1)
Massachusetts 1,422 1,719 32 32 (3) (1)
Other 11,605 14,145 215 224 (50) (31)
Total home equity loan portfolio $ 27,935 $ 34,311 $ 630 $ 649 $ (119)$ (73)
Outstandings and nonperforming loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.
Credit Card
At Decembe r 31, 2021, 97 percent of the credit card portfolio was
managed in Consumer Banking  with the remainder in GWIM .
Outstandings in the credit card portfolio increas ed $2.7 billion in
2021 to $81.4 billion due to higher retail spend. Net charge-of fs
decreased $626 million to $1.7 billion during 2021 compared to
the same period in 2020 due to the impact of government
stimulus measures, partially offset by charge-of fs of certain loans
with deferrals that expired in 2020. Credit cardloans 30 days or more past due and still accruing interest
decreased $692 million, and loans 90 days or more past due and
still accruing interest decreased $416 million primarily due to
charge-of fs of certain loans with deferrals that expired in 2020
and the impact of government stimulus measures.
Unused lines of credit for credit card increased to $361.2
billion at December 31, 2021 from $342.4 billion at 2020.
Table 25 presents certain state concentrations for the credit
card portfolio.
Table 25Credit Card State Concentrations
OutstandingsAccruing Past Due
90 Days or More 
December 31 Net Charge-offs
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020
California $ 13,076 $ 12,543 $ 82 $ 166 $ 322 $ 419 
Florida 8,046 7,666 71 135 245 306 
Texas 6,894 6,499 47 87 158 202 
New York 4,725 4,654 35 76 135 188 
Washington 4,080 3,685 13 21 39 56 
Other 44,617 43,661 239 418 824 1,178 
Total credit card portfolio $ 81,438 $ 78,708 $ 487 $ 903 $ 1,723 $ 2,349 
For inform ation on our interest accrual policies and delinquency status for loan modifications related to the pandemic, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  to the Consolidate d
Financial Statements.
Direct/Indirect Consumer
At December 31, 2021, 47 percent of the direct/indirect portfolio
was included in Consumer Banking  (consumer auto and
recreational vehicle lending) and 53 percent was included inGWIM  (principally securities-b ased lending loans). Outstandings
in the direct/ indirect portfolio increased by $12.2 billion in 2021 to
$103.6 billion driven by client demand for liquidit y and high asset
values in the securities-based lending portfolio.(1) (1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
63 Bank of America
Table 26 presents certain state concentrations for the direct/indirect consumer loan portfolio.
Table 26Direct/Indirect State Concentrations
OutstandingsAccruing Past Due
90 Days or More 
December 31 Net Charge-offs
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020
California $ 15,061 $ 12,248 $ 2 $ 6 $ 3 $ 20 
Florida 13,352 10,891 1 4 1 20 
Texas 9,505 8,981 2 6 2 20 
New York 7,802 6,609 1 2 3 9 
New Jersey 4,228 3,572 — — (3) 2 
Other 53,612 49,062 5 15 (5) 51 
Total direct/indirect loan portfolio $ 103,560 $ 91,363 $ 11 $ 33 $ 1 $ 122 
For inform ation on our interest accrual policies and delinquency status for loan modifications related to the pandemic, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  to the Consolidate d
Financial Statements.
Nonperforming Consumer Loans, Leases and
Foreclosed Properties Activity
Table 27 presents nonp erforming consumer loans, leases and
foreclosed properties activity during 2021 and 2020. During 2021,
nonperforming consume r loans increased $264  million to $3.0
billion primarily driven by consumer real estate deferral activity .
At Decemb er 31, 2021, $888 million, or 30 percent of
nonperforming loans were 180 days or more past due and had
been written down to their estimated property value less coststo sell. In addition, at December 31, 2021, $1.4 billion, or 48
percent of nonperforming consumer loans were modified and are
now current after successful trial periods, or are current loans
classified as nonperforming loans in accordanc e with applicable
policies.
Foreclosed properties decreased $22 million in 2021 to $101
million. Nonperforming loans also include certain loans that have
been modified in TDRs where economic concessions have been
granted to borrowers experiencing financial dif ficulties.
Table 27Nonperforming Consumer Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Nonperforming loans and leases, January 1 $ 2,725 $ 2,053 
Additions 2,006 2,278 
Reductions:
Paydowns and payoffs (625) (440)
Sales (4) (38)
Returns to performing status (1,037) (1,014)
Charge-offs (64) (78)
Transfers to foreclosed properties (12) (36)
Total net additions to nonperforming loans and leases 264 672 
Total nonperforming loans and leases, December 31 2,989 2,725 
Foreclosed properties, December 31 101 123 
Nonperforming consumer loans, leases and foreclosed properties, December 31 $ 3,090 $ 2,848 
Nonperforming consumer loans and leases as a percentage of outstanding consumer loans and leases 0.69 % 0.64 %
Nonperforming consumer loans, leases and foreclosed properties as a percentage of outstanding consumer loans, leases and
foreclosed properties 0.71 0.66 
Consumer loans may be returned to performing status when all principal and interest is current and full repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest is expected, or when the loan
otherwise becomes well-secured and is in the process of collection.
Foreclosed property balances do not include properties insured by certain government-guaranteed loans, principally FHA-insured, of $52 million and $119 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Outstanding consumer loans and leases exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.(1)
(1)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
Bank of America 64
Table 28 presents TDRs for the consumer real estate portfolio. Performing TDR balances are excluded from nonperforming loans
and leases in Table 27.
Table 28Consumer Real Estate Troubled Debt Restructurings
December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
(Dollars in millions) Nonperforming Performing Total Nonperforming Performing Total
Residential mortgage $ 1,498 $ 2,278 $ 3,776 $ 1,195 $ 2,899 $ 4,094 
Home equity 254 652 906 248 836 1,084 
Total consumer real estate troubled debt
restructurings $ 1,752 $ 2,930 $ 4,682 $ 1,443 $ 3,735 $ 5,178 
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, residential mortgage TDRs deemed collateral dependent totaled $1.6 billion and $1.4 billion, and included $1.4 billion and $1.0 billion of loans classified as
nonperforming and $279 million and $361 million of loans classified as performing.
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, residential mortgage performing TDRs include $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion of loans that were fully-insured.
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, home equity TDRs deemed collat eral dependent totaled $370 million and $407 million, and include $222 million and $216 million of loans classified as
nonperforming and $148 million and $191 million of loans classified as performing.
In addition to modifying consumer real estate loans, we work
with custom ers who are experiencing financial difficulty by
modifying credit card and other consumer loans . Credit card and
other consumer loan modifications generally involve a reduction
in the customer ’s intere st rate on the account and placing the
customer on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60 months.
Modifications of credit card and other consumer loans are
made through programs utilizing direct customer contact, but
may also utilize external programs. At December 31, 2021 and
2020, our credit card and other consumer TDR portfolio was
$672 million  and $701 million, of which $599 million and $614
million were current or less than 30 days past due under the
modified terms.
Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk
Management
Credit risk management for the commercial portfolio begins with
an assessment of the credit risk profile of the borrower or
counterparty based on an analysis of its financia l position. As part
of the overall credit risk assessment, our commercial credit
exposures are assigned a risk rating and are subject to approval
based on defined credit approval standards. Subsequent to loan
origination, risk ratings are monitored on an ongoing basis, and if
necessary , adjusted to reflect changes in the financial condition,
cash flow, risk profile or outlook of a borrower or counterparty . In
making credit decisions, we consider risk rating, collateral,
country , industry and single-name concentration  limits while also
balancing these considerations with the total borrower or
counterparty relationship. We use a variety of tools to
continuously monitor the ability of a borrower or counterparty to
perform under its obligations. We use risk rating aggregations to
measure and evaluate concentrations within portfolios. In
addition, risk ratings are a factor in determin ing the level of
allocated capital and the allowance for credit losses.
As part of our ongoing risk mitigation initiatives, we attempt to
work with clients experiencing financial difficulty to modify their
loans to terms that bette r align with their current ability to pay. In
situations where an economic concession has been granted to a
borrower experiencing financial difficulty , we identify these loans
as TDRs. For more information on our accounting policies
regarding delinquencies, nonperforming status and net charge-
offs for the commercia l portfolio, see Note  1 – Summary of
Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial
Statements .
Management of Commercial Credit Risk
Concentrations
Commercial credit risk is evaluated and manag ed with the goal
that concentrations of credit exposure continue to be aligned with
our risk appetite. We review , measure and manage
concentrations of credit exposure by industry , product,geography , customer relationship and loan size. We also review ,
measure and manage  commercial real estate loans by
geographic location and property type. In addition, within our
non-U.S. portfolio, we evaluate exposures by region and by
country . Tables 33, 36 and 39 summarize our concentrations. We
also utilize syndications of exposure to third parties, loan sales,
hedging and other risk mitigation techniques to manage the size
and risk profile of the commercial credit portfolio. For more
information on our industry concentrations, see Commercial
Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Industry Concentrations on
page 69 and Table 36.
We account for certain large corporate loans and loan
commitments, including issued but unfunded letters of credit
which are considered utilized for credit risk management
purposes, that exceed our single-name credit risk concentration
guidelines under the fair value option. Lending commitments,
both funded and unfunded, are actively managed and monitored,
and as appropriate, credit risk for these lending relationships may
be mitigated through the use of credit derivatives, with our credit
view and market perspe ctives determining the size and timing of
the hedging activity . In addition, we purchase credit protection to
cover the funded portion as well as the unfunded portion of
certain other credit expo sures. To lessen the cost of obtaining our
desired credit protection levels, credit exposure may be added
within an industry , borrower or counterparty group by selling
protection. These credit derivatives do not meet the requirements
for treatment as account ing hedges. They are carried at fair value
with changes in fair value recorded in other income.
In addition, we are a member of various securities and
derivative exchanges and clearinghouses, both in the U.S. and
other countries. As a member , we may be required to pay a pro-
rata share of the losses incurred by some of these organizations
as a result of another member default and under other loss
scenarios. For more information, see Note 12 – Commitments
and Contingencies  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Commercial Credit Portfolio
During 2021, commercial credit quality improved as the economic
recovery gained momentum driven in part by increased
consumer spending and COVID-19 vaccin ation progress.
Accordingly , charge-of fs, nonperforming commercial loans and
reservable criticized utilized exposure declined during this period.
Outstanding commercial  loans and leases increased $44.4 billion
during 2021 due to grow th in commercial and industrial, primarily
in Global Markets  with most of the increase in investment grade
exposures. This increase was partially offset by lower U.S. small
business commercial loans due to repayments of PPP loans by
the Small Business Administration (SBA) under the terms of the
program. For more information on(1, 2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
65 Bank of America
PPP loans, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting
Principles  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Credit quality of commercial real estate borrowers has begun
to stabilize in many sectors as economies have reopened.
However , certain secto rs, including hospitality , while showing
signs of improvement, continue to be negatively impacted due to
the pandemic. Moreover , many real estate markets, while
improving, are still experiencing some disrupt ions in demand,
supply chain challenges and tenant difficulties. Current and future
office demand is uncertain as companies evaluate space needs
with employment models that utilize a mix of remote and
conventional of fice use.
The comm ercial allowance for loan and lease losses
decreased $3.4 billion during 2021 to $5.4 billion driven by
improvements in the macroeconomic outlook and credit quality .
For more information, see Allowance for Credit Losses on page
73.Total commercial utilized credit exposure increased $33.2
billion during 2021 to $653.5 billion primarily driven by higher
loans and leases. The utilization rate for loans and leases,
standby letters of credit (SBLCs) and financial guarantees, and
commercial letters of credit, in the aggregate, was 56 percent at
December 31, 2021 and 57 percent at December 31, 2020.
Table 29 presents commercial credit exposure by type for
utilized, unfunded and total binding committed credit exposure.
Commercial utilized credit exposure include s SBLCs and
financial guarantees and commercial letters of credit that have
been issued and for which we are legally bound to advance funds
under prescribed conditions during a specified time period, and
excludes exposure related to trading account assets. Although
funds have not yet been advanced, these exposure types are
considered utilized for credit risk management purposes.
Table 29Commercial Credit Exposure by Type
 Commercial Utilized Commercial Unfunded Total Commercial Committed
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020
Loans and leases $ 543,420 $ 499,065 $ 454,256 $ 404,740 $ 997,676 $ 903,805 
Derivative assets 35,344 47,179 — — 35,344 47,179 
Standby letters of credit and financial guarantees 34,389 34,616 639 538 35,028 35,154 
Debt securities and other investments 19,427 22,618 4,638 4,827 24,065 27,445 
Loans held-for-sale 13,185 8,378 16,581 9,556 29,766 17,934 
Operating leases 5,935 6,424 — — 5,935 6,424 
Commercial letters of credit 1,176 855 247 280 1,423 1,135 
Other 652 1,168 — — 652 1,168 
Total $ 653,528 $ 620,303 $ 476,361 $ 419,941 $ 1,129,889 $ 1,040,244 
Commercial utilized exposure includes loans of $7.2 billion and $5.9 billion accounted for under the fair value option at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Commercial unfunded exposure includes commitments accounted for under the fair value option with a notional amount of $4.8 billion and $3.9 billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Excludes unused business card lines, which are not legally binding.
Includes the notional amount of unfunded legally binding lending commit ments net of amounts distributed (i.e., syndicated or participated) to other financial institutions. The distributed amounts were
$10.7 billion and $10.5 billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Derivative assets are carried at fair value, reflect the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements and have been reduced by cash collateral of $30.8 billion and $42.5 billion at
December 31, 2021 and 2020. Not reflected in utilized and committed exposure is additional non-cash derivative collateral held of $44.8 billion  and $39.3 billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020,
which consists primarily of other marketable securities.
Nonperforming commercial loans decreased $649 million. Table 30 presents our commercial loans and leases portfolio and related
credit quality information at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Table 30Commercial Credit Quality
Outstandings NonperformingAccruing Past Due
90 Days or More
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020
Commercial and industrial:
U.S. commercial $ 325,936 $ 288,728 $ 825 $ 1,243 $ 171 $ 228 
Non-U.S. commercial 113,266 90,460 268 418 19 10 
Total commercial and industrial 439,202 379,188 1,093 1,661 190 238 
Commercial real estate 63,009 60,364 382 404 40 6 
Commercial lease financing 14,825 17,098 80 87 8 25 
517,036 456,650 1,555 2,152 238 269 
U.S. small business commercial 19,183 36,469 23 75 87 115 
Commercial loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair
value option $ 536,219 $ 493,119 $ 1,578 $ 2,227 $ 325 $ 384 
Loans accounted for under the fair value option 7,201 5,946 
Total commercial loans and leases $ 543,420 $ 499,065 
Includes card-related products.
Commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option include U.S. commercial of $4.6 billion and $2.9 billion and non-U.S. commercial of $2.6 billion and $3.0 billion at December 31, 2021 and
2020. For more information on the fair value option, see Note 21 – Fair V alue Option  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.(1) (2, 3, 4)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
Bank of America 66
Table 31 presents net charge-of fs and related ratios for our commercial loans and leases for 2021 and 2020.
Table 31Commercial Net Charge-offs and Related Ratios
Net Charge-offs Net Charge-off Ratios
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2021 2020
Commercial and industrial:
U.S. commercial $ (23)$ 718 (0.01)% 0.23 %
Non-U.S. commercial 35 155 0.04 0.15 
Total commercial and industrial 12 873 — 0.21 
Commercial real estate 34 270 0.06 0.43 
Commercial lease financing (1) 59 — 0.32 
45 1,202 0.01 0.24 
U.S. small business commercial 351 267 1.19 0.86 
Total commercial $ 396 $ 1,469 0.08 0.28 
Net charge-of f ratios are calculated as net charge-of fs divided by average outstanding loans and leases excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option.
Table 32 presents commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure by loan type. Criticized exposure corresponds to the Special
Mention, Substandard and Doubtful asset categories as defined by regulatory authorities. Total commercial reservable criticized
utilized expo sure decrea sed $16.3 billion during 2021, which was broad-based across industries. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, 87
percent and 79 percent of commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure was secured.
Table 32Commercial Reservable Criticized Utilized Exposure 
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Commercial and industrial:
U.S. commercial $ 11,327 3.20 %$ 21,388 6.83 %
Non-U.S. commercial 2,582 2.17 5,051 5.03 
Total commercial and industrial 13,909 2.94 26,439 6.40 
Commercial real estate 7,572 11.72 10,213 16.42 
Commercial lease financing 387 2.61 714 4.18 
21,868 3.96 37,366 7.59 
U.S. small business commercial 513 2.67 1,300 3.56 
Total commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure $ 22,381 3.91 $ 38,666 7.31 
Total commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure includes loans and leases of $21.2 billion and $36.6 billion and commercial letters of credit of $1.2 billion and $2.1 billion at December 31,
2021 and 2020.
Percentages are calculated as commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure divided by total commercial reservable utilized exposure for each exposure category .
Commercial and Industrial
Commercial and industrial loans include U.S. commercial and
non-U.S. commercial portfolios.
U.S. Commercial
At December 31, 2021, 62 percent of the U.S. commercial loan
portfolio, excluding small business, was managed in Global
Banking,  22 percent in Global Mark ets, 15 percent in GWIM
(loans that provide financing for asset purchases, business
investments and other liquidity needs for high net worth clients)
and the remainder primarily in Consumer Banking . U.S.
commercial loans increased $37.2 billion, or 13 percent, during
2021 primarily driven by Global Markets and Global Banking .
Reservable criticized utilized exposure decreas ed $10.1 billion,
driven by decreases across a broad range of industries.
Non-U.S. Commercial
At December 31, 2021,  69 percent of the non-U.S. commercial
loan portfoli o was managed in Global Bank ing, 30 percent in
Global Markets and the remainder in GWIM. Non-U.S.
commercial loans increased $22.8 billion, or 25 percent, during
2021 primarily in Global Markets . Reservable criticized utilized
exposure decreased $2.5 billion, which was broad-based across
industries. For information on the non-U.S. commercial portfolio,
see Non-U.S. Portfolio on page 71.Commercial Real Estate
Commercial real estate primarily includes commercial loans
secured by non-owner-occupied real estate and is dependent on
the sale or lease of the real estate as the primary source of
repayment. Outstanding loans increased $2.6 billion, or four
percent, during 2021 to $63.0 billion due to new originations
outpacing paydowns. The portfolio remains diversified across
property types and geographic regions. California represented
the largest state concentration at 21 percent and 23 percent of
the commercial real estate portfolio at December 31, 2021 and
2020. The commercial real estate portfolio is predominantly
managed in Global Bank ing and consists of loans made primarily
to public and private developers, and commercial real estate
firms.
During 2021, we continued to see low defau lt rates and
varying degrees of improvement in certain geographic regions
and property  types of the portfolio. We use a number of proactive
risk mitigation initiatives to reduce adversely rated exposure in
the commercial real estate portfolio, including transfers of
deteriorating exposures for management by independent special
asset officers and the pursuit of loan restructurings or asset sales
to achieve the best results for our custo mers and the
Corporation.
Table 33 presents outstanding commercial real estate loans
by geograph ic region, based on the geographic location of the
collateral, and by property type. (1)
(1)
(1, 2)
(1)
(2)
67 Bank of America
Table 33Outstanding Commercial Real Estate Loans
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
By Geographic Region   
Northeast $ 14,318 $ 11,628 
California 13,145 14,028 
Southwest 7,510 8,551 
Southeast 6,758 6,588 
Florida 4,367 4,294 
Midwest 3,221 3,483 
Illinois 2,878 2,594 
Midsouth 2,289 2,370 
Northwest 1,709 1,634 
Non-U.S. 4,760 3,187 
Other 2,054 2,007 
Total outstanding commercial real estate loans $ 63,009 $ 60,364 
By Property Type   
Non-residential
Office $ 18,309 $ 17,667 
Industrial / Warehouse 10,749 8,330 
Multi-family rental 8,173 7,051 
Shopping centers /Retail 6,502 7,931 
Hotel / Motels 5,932 7,226 
Unsecured 3,178 2,336 
Multi-use 1,835 1,460 
Other 7,238 7,146 
Total non-residential 61,916 59,147 
Residential 1,093 1,217 
Total outstanding commercial real estate loans $ 63,009 $ 60,364 
U.S. Small Business Commercial
The U.S. small business commercial loan portfolio is comprised
of small business card loans and small busines s loans primarily
managed in Consumer Banking,  and includes $4.7 billion and
$22.7 billion of PPP loans outstanding at December 31, 2021 and
2020. The decline of $18.0 billion in PPP loans during 2021 was
due to repayment of the loans by the SBA under the terms of the
program. Excluding PPP, credit card-related products were 50
percent of the U.S. small business commercial portfolio at both
December 31, 2021 and 2020 and represented 95 percent of net
charge-of fs in 2021 compared to 91 percent in 2020.Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and
Foreclosed Properties Activity
Table 34 presents the nonperforming commerc ial loans, leases
and foreclosed properties activity during 2021 and 2020.
Nonperforming loans do not include loans accounted for under
the fair value option. During 2021, nonperforming commercial
loans and leases decreased $649 million to $1.6 billion. At
December 31, 2021, 88 percent of commercia l nonperforming
loans, leases and foreclosed properties were secured and 54
percent were contractually current. Commercial nonperforming
loans were carried at 90 percent of their unpaid principal balance,
as the carrying value of these loans has been reduced to the
estimated collateral value less costs to sell.
Table 34Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity 
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Nonperforming loans and leases, January 1 $ 2,227 $ 1,499 
Additions 1,622 3,518 
Reductions:  
Paydowns (1,163) (1,002)
Sales (199) (350)
Returns to performing status (264) (172)
Charge-offs (254) (1,208)
Transfers to foreclosed properties — (2)
Transfers to loans held-for-sale (391) (56)
Total net additions (reductions) to nonperforming loans and leases (649) 728 
Total nonperforming loans and leases, December 31 1,578 2,227 
Foreclosed properties, December 31 29 41 
Nonperforming commercial loans, leases and foreclosed properties, December 31 $ 1,607 $ 2,268 
Nonperforming commercial loans and leases as a percentage of outstanding commercial loans and leases 0.29 % 0.45 %
Nonperforming commercial loans, leases and foreclosed properties as a percentage of outstanding commercial loans, leases
and foreclosed properties 0.30 0.46 
Balances do not include nonperforming loans held-for-sale of $264 million and $359 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Includes U.S. small business commercial activity . Small business card loans are excluded as they are not classified as nonperforming.
Commercial loans and leases may be returned to performing status when  all principal and interest is current and full repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest is expected, or when
the loan otherwise becomes well-secured and is in the process of collection. TDRs are generally classified as performing after a sustained period of demonstrated payment performance.
Outstanding commercial loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.(1, 2)
(3)
(4)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Bank of America 68
Table 35 presents our commercial TDRs by product type and
performing status. U.S. small business comm ercial TDRs are
comprised of renegotiated small business card loans and small
business loans. The renegotiated small business card loans arenot classified  as nonperforming as they are charged off no later
than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days
past due.
Table 35Commercial Troubled Debt Restructurings
December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
(Dollars in millions) Nonperforming Performing Total Nonperforming Performing Total
Commercial and industrial:
U.S. commercial $ 359 $ 685 $ 1,044 $ 509 $ 850 $ 1,359 
Non-U.S. commercial 72 8 80 49 119 168 
Total commercial and industrial 431 693 1,124 558 969 1,527 
Commercial real estate 244 437 681 137 — 137 
Commercial lease financing 50 7 57 42 2 44 
725 1,137 1,862 737 971 1,708 
U.S. small business commercial — 38 38 — 29 29 
Total commercial troubled debt restructurings $ 725 $ 1,175 $ 1,900 $ 737 $ 1,000 $ 1,737 
Industry Concentrations
Table 36 presents commercial committed and utilized credit
exposure by industry . Our commercial credit exposure is
diversified across a broad range of industries. Total commercial
committed exposure increased $89.6 billion, or nine percent,
during 2021 to $1.1 trillion. The increase in commercial
committed exposure was concentrated in the Asset managers
and funds, Finance companies and Utilities industry sectors.
Increases were partially offset by decreased exposure to the
Government and public education and Automobiles and
components industry sectors.
Industry limits are used internally to manage industry
concentrations and are based on committed exposure that is
determined on an industry-by-industry basis. A risk management
framework is in place to set and approve industry limits as well as
to provide ongoing monitoring.
Asset manag ers and funds, our largest industry concentration
with commi tted exposure of $136.9 billion, increased $36.6
billion, or 37 percent, during 2021, which was primarily driven by
secured investment grade exposures.Real estate,  our second largest industry conce ntration with
committed exposure of $96.2 billion, increased $4.5 billion, or five
percent, during 2021. For more information on the commercial
real estate and related portfolios, see Commercial Portfolio Credit
Risk Management – Commercial Real Estate on page 67.
Finance companies, our third largest industry concentration
with committed exposure of $86.0 billion, increased $16.0 billion,
or 23 percent during 2021, with the growth largely occurring in
Consumer Finance, Thrifts and Mortgage Financ e and Diversified
Financials.
Given the widespread impact of the pandemic on the U.S.
and global economy , a number of industries have been and will
likely continue to be adversely impacted. We continue to monitor
all industrie s, particul arly higher risk industries that are
experiencing or could experience a more significant impact to
their financial condition.
69 Bank of America
Table 36Commercial Credit Exposure by Industry 
Commercial
UtilizedTotal Commercial
Committed 
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2021 2020
Asset managers & funds $ 89,786 $ 67,360 $ 136,914 $ 100,296 
Real estate 69,384 68,967 96,202 91,730 
Finance companies 59,327 46,948 86,009 70,004 
Capital goods 42,784 39,807 84,293 80,815 
Healthcare equipment and services 32,003 33,488 58,195 57,540 
Materials 25,133 24,516 53,652 50,757 
Retailing 24,514 23,700 50,816 48,306 
Government & public education 37,597 41,669 50,066 56,212 
Consumer services 28,172 31,993 48,052 47,997 
Food, beverage and tobacco 21,584 22,755 45,419 44,417 
Commercial services and supplies 22,390 21,107 42,451 38,092 
Individuals and trusts 29,752 24,727 39,869 34,036 
Utilities 17,082 12,387 36,855 29,234 
Energy 14,217 13,930 34,136 32,974 
Transportation 21,079 23,126 32,015 33,082 
Software and services 10,663 10,853 27,643 22,524 
Technology hardware and equipment 10,159 9,935 26,910 24,196 
Media 12,495 12,632 26,318 24,120 
Global commercial banks 20,062 20,544 21,390 22,595 
Telecommunication services 10,056 9,411 21,270 15,605 
Consumer durables and apparel 9,740 9,232 21,226 20,223 
Pharmaceuticals and biotechnology 5,608 4,830 19,439 15,901 
Automobiles and components 9,236 10,792 17,052 20,575 
Vehicle dealers 11,030 15,028 15,678 18,696 
Insurance 5,743 5,772 14,323 13,277 
Food and staples retailing 6,902 5,209 12,226 11,795 
Financial markets infrastructure (clearinghouses) 3,876 4,939 6,076 8,648 
Religious and social organizations 3,154 4,646 5,394 6,597 
Total commercial credit exposure by industry $ 653,528 $ 620,303 $ 1,129,889 $ 1,040,244 
Includes U.S. small business commercial exposure.
Includes the notional amount of unfunded legally binding lending commit ments net of amounts distributed (i.e., syndicated or participated) to other financial institutions. The distributed amounts were
$10.7 billion and $10.5 billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Industries are viewed from a variety of perspectives to best isolate the perceived risks. For purposes of this table, the real estate industry is defined based on the primary business activity of the
borrowers or counterparties using operating cash flows and primary source of repayment as key factors.
Risk Mitigation
We purchase credit prote ction to cover the funded portion as well
as the unfunded portion  of certain credit exposures. To lower the
cost of obtaining our desired credit protection levels, we may add
credit exposure within an industry , borrower or counterparty
group by selling protection.
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, net notional credit default
protection purchased in our credit derivatives portfolio to hedge
our funded and unfunde d exposures for which we elected the fair
value option, as well as certain other credit exposures, was $2.6
billion and $4.2 billion. We recorded net losses  of $91 million in
2021 compared to net losses of $240 million in 2020. The gains
and losses on these instruments were offset by gains and losses
on the related exposures. The Value-at-Risk (VaR) results for
these expos ures are included in the fair value option portfolio
information in Table 43. For more information, see Trading Risk
Management on page 76.
Tables 37 and 38 prese nt the maturity profiles and the credit
exposure debt ratings of the net credit default protection portfolio
at December 31, 2021 and 2020.Table 37Net Credit Default Protection by Maturity
December 31
2021 2020
Less than or equal to one year 34 % 65 %
Greater than one year and less than or equal
to five years 62 34 
Greater than five years 4 1 
Total net credit default protection 100 % 100 %
Table 38Net Credit Default Protection by Credit
Exposure Debt Rating
Net
Notional Percent of
TotalNet
Notional Percent of
Total
 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Ratings     
A $ (350) 13.4 %$ (250) 6.0 %
BBB (710) 27.1 (1,856) 44.5 
BB (809) 30.9 (1,363) 32.7 
B (659) 25.2 (465) 11.2 
CCC and below (35) 1.3 (182) 4.4 
NR (55) 2.1 (54) 1.2 
Total net credit
default protection$ (2,618) 100.0 %$ (4,170) 100.0 %
Represents net credit default protection purchased.
Ratings are refreshed on a quarterly basis.
Ratings of BBB- or higher are considered to meet the definition of investment grade.
NR is comprised of index positions held and any names that have not been rated.(1)
(2)
 (3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(1) (1)
(2, 3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Bank of America 70
In addition to our net notional credit default protection
purchased to cover the funded and unfunded portion of certain
credit exposures, credit derivatives are used for market-making
activities for clients and establishing positions intended to profit
from directional or relative value changes. We execute the
majority of our credit derivative trades in the OTC market with
large, multinational financial institutions, includin g broker-dealers
and, to a lesser degree, with a variety of other investors.
Because these transactions are executed in the OTC market, we
are subject to settlement risk. We are also subject to credit risk in
the event that these counterparties fail to perform under the
terms of these contracts . In order to properly reflect counterparty
credit risk, we record counterparty credit  risk valuation
adjustments on certain derivative assets, including our
purchased credit default protection. In most cases, credit
derivative transactions are executed on a daily margin basis.
Therefore, events such as a credit downgrade, depending on the
ultimate rating level, or a breach of credit covenants would
typically require an increase in the amount of collateral required
by the counterparty , where applicable, and/or allow us to take
additional protective measures such as early termination of all
trades. For more information on credit derivatives and
counterparty credit risk valuation adjustments, see Note 3 –
Derivatives  to the Consolidated Financial Statements .
Non-U.S. Portfolio
Our non-U.S. credit and trading portfolios are subject to country
risk. We define country risk as the risk of loss from unfavorable
economic and political conditions, currency fluctuations, social
instability and changes in government policies. A risk
management framework is in place to measure, monitor andmanage non-U.S. risk and exposures. In addition to the direct
risk of doing business in a country , we also are exposed to
indirect coun try risks (e.g., related to the collateral received on
secured financing transactions or related to client clearing
activities). These indirect exposures are managed in the normal
course of business through credit, market and operational risk
governance rather than through country risk governance.
Table 39 presents our 20 largest non-U.S. country exposures
at December 31, 2021. These exposures accounted for 89
percent and 90 perce nt of our total non-U.S. exposure at
December 31, 2021 and 2020. Net country exposure for these 20
countries increased $10.5 billion in 2021 primarily driven by
increases in Australia, Canada and France, partially offset by
reductions in Germany and the United Kingdom.
Non-U.S. exposure is presented on an internal risk
management basis and includes sovereign and non-sovereign
credit exposure, securities and other investments issued by or
domiciled in countries other than the U.S.
Funded loans and loan equivalents include loans, leases, and
other extensions of credit and funds, including letters of credit
and due from placements. Unfunded comm itments are the
undrawn portion of legally binding commitments related to loans
and loan equivalents. Net counterparty exposure includes the fair
value of derivatives, including the counterparty  risk associated
with credit default swaps (CDS), and secured financing
transactions. Securities and other investments are carried at fair
value and long securities exposures are netted against short
exposures with the same underlying issuer to, but not below ,
zero. Net country expo sure represents country exposure less
hedges and credit default protection purchased, net of credit
default protection sold.
Table 39Top 20 Non-U.S. Countries Exposure
(Dollars in millions)Funded Loans
 and Loan
 EquivalentsUnfunded
 Loan
 CommitmentsNet
 Counterparty
 ExposureSecurities/
Other
InvestmentsCountry
Exposure at
December 31
2021Hedges and
Credit Default
ProtectionNet Country
Exposure at
December 31
2021Increase
(Decrease)
from December
31
2020
United Kingdom $ 32,062 $ 15,858 $ 5,932 $ 2,399 $ 56,251 $ (1,282)$ 54,969 $ (4,503)
Germany 21,397 9,790 1,794 1,807 34,788 (963) 33,825 (11,078)
Canada 9,138 12,783 1,441 3,551 26,913 (602) 26,311 5,177 
France 12,393 8,234 1,391 3,710 25,728 (821) 24,907 4,116 
Australia 9,194 9,078 434 2,812 21,518 (214) 21,304 8,217 
Japan 14,812 1,528 1,308 371 18,019 (757) 17,262 (234)
Brazil 6,814 1,382 526 4,227 12,949 (199) 12,750 2,457 
China 9,941 689 894 1,370 12,894 (312) 12,582 (838)
Singapore 3,914 709 249 5,850 10,722 (57) 10,665 1,383 
Netherlands 3,839 4,780 452 950 10,021 (425) 9,596 (88)
India 6,485 388 470 1,454 8,797 (166) 8,631 820 
Switzerland 5,072 3,125 277 338 8,812 (237) 8,575 1,680 
South Korea 5,800 771 545 1,191 8,307 (155) 8,152 (399)
Hong Kong 5,523 315 338 1,167 7,343 (16) 7,327 790 
Mexico 4,333 1,577 136 629 j 6,675 (213) 6,462 175 
Spain 2,482 2,126 473 1,198 6,279 (359) 5,920 1,104 
Ireland 4,037 1,019 136 376 5,568 (29) 5,539 1,374 
Italy 2,843 1,098 348 1,484 5,773 (569) 5,204 (488)
Belgium 2,548 1,516 462 687 5,213 (182) 5,031 64 
United Arab Emirates 2,942 329 36 234 3,541 (47) 3,494 807 
Total top 20 non-U.S.
countries exposure $ 165,569 $ 77,095 $ 17,642 $ 35,805 $ 296,111 $ (7,605)$ 288,506 $ 10,536 
71 Bank of America
Our largest non-U.S. country exposure at December 31, 2021
was the United Kingdom  with net exposure of $55.0 billion, which
represents a $4.5 billion  decrease from December 31, 2020. Our
second largest non-U.S. country exposure was Germany with net
exposure of $33.8 billion  at December 31, 2021, a $11.1 billion
decrease from December 31, 2020. The decrease in both of
these countries was primarily driven by a reduction in deposits
with central banks.
In light of the global pandemic, we are monito ring our non-
U.S. exposure closely , particularly in countries where restrictions
on certain activities, in an attempt to contain the spread and
impact of the virus, have affected and will likely continue to
adversely af fect economic activity .The impact of COVID-19  could have an adverse impact on the
global economy for a prolonged period of time. For more
information on how the pandemic may affect our operations, see
Executive Summary – Recent Developments – COVID-19
Pandemic on page 27 and Part 1. Item 1A. Risk Factors on page
7.
Loan and Lease Contractual Maturities
Table 40 disaggregates total outstanding loans and leases by
remaining contractual maturities and interest rates. The amounts
provided do not reflect prepayment assumpt ions or hedging
activities related to the loan portfolio. For information on the asset
sensitivity of our total banking book balance sheet, see Interest
Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book on page 79.
Table 40Loan and Lease Contractual Maturities 
 December 31, 2021
(Dollars in millions)Due in One
Year or LessDue After One
Year Through
Five YearsDue After Five
Years Through
15 YearsDue After 15
Years Total
Residential mortgage $ 175 $ 702 $ 48,614 $ 172,751 $ 222,242 
Home equity 1,596 92 6,159 20,427 28,274 
Credit card 81,438 — — — 81,438 
Direct/Indirect consumer 54,080 30,940 14,535 4,005 103,560 
Other consumer 190 — — — 190 
Total consumer loans $ 137,479 $ 31,734 $ 69,308 $ 197,183 $ 435,704 
U.S. commercial $ 93,480 $ 195,157 $ 39,370 $ 2,505 $ 330,512 
Non-U.S. commercial 42,570 50,514 21,754 1,053 115,891 
Commercial real estate 16,322 42,363 3,386 938 63,009 
Commercial lease financing 1,349 8,676 3,865 935 14,825 
U.S. small business commercial 9,428 3,895 5,656 204 19,183 
Total commercial loans $ 163,149 $ 300,605 $ 74,031 $ 5,635 $ 543,420 
Total loans and leases $ 300,628 $ 332,339 $ 143,339 $ 202,818 $ 979,124 
Amount due in one year or less at: Amount due after one year at:
(Dollars in millions)Variable Interest
RatesFixed Interest
RatesVariable Interest
RatesFixed Interest
Rates Total
Residential mortgage $ 18 $ 157 $ 80,967 $ 141,100 $ 222,242 
Home equity 98 1,498 25,982 696 28,274 
Credit card 77,151 4,287 — — 81,438 
Direct/Indirect consumer 48,424 5,656 2,551 46,929 103,560 
Other consumer — 190 — — 190 
Total consumer loans $ 125,691 $ 11,788 $ 109,500 $ 188,725 $ 435,704 
U.S. commercial $ 84,398 $ 9,082 $ 190,978 $ 46,054 $ 330,512 
Non-U.S. commercial 39,472 3,098 70,817 2,504 115,891 
Commercial real estate 15,673 649 44,626 2,061 63,009 
Commercial lease financing 187 1,162 1,560 11,916 14,825 
U.S. small business commercial 5,150 4,278 98 9,657 19,183 
Total commercial loans $ 144,880 $ 18,269 $ 308,079 $ 72,192 $ 543,420 
Total loans and leases $ 270,571 $ 30,057 $ 417,579 $ 260,917 $ 979,124 
Includes loans accounted for under the fair value option.(1)
(1)
Bank of America 72
Allowance for Credit Losses
The allowance for credit losses decreased $6.8 billion from
December 31, 2020 to $13.8 billion at December 31, 2021, which
included a $3.8 billion reserve decrease related to the
commercial portfolio and a $3.1 billion reserve decrease relatedto the consumer portfolio. The decreases were primarily driven
by improve ments in the macroeconomic outlook and credit
quality .
Table 41 presents an allocation of the allowan ce for credit
losses by product type at December 31, 2021  and 2020.
Table 41Allocation of the Allowance for Credit Losses by Product Type
AmountPercent of
TotalPercent of
Loans and
Leases
Outstanding AmountPercent of
TotalPercent of
Loans and
Leases
Outstanding 
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Allowance for loan and lease losses       
Residential mortgage $ 351 2.83 % 0.16 %$ 459 2.44 % 0.21 %
Home equity 206 1.66 0.74 399 2.12 1.16 
Credit card 5,907 47.70 7.25 8,420 44.79 10.70 
Direct/Indirect consumer 523 4.22 0.51 752 4.00 0.82 
Other consumer 46 0.37 n/m 41 0.22 n/m
Total consumer 7,033 56.78 1.62 10,071 53.57 2.35 
U.S. commercial 3,019 24.37 0.87 5,043 26.82 1.55 
Non-U.S. commercial 975 7.87 0.86 1,241 6.60 1.37 
Commercial real estate 1,292 10.43 2.05 2,285 12.15 3.79 
Commercial lease financing 68 0.55 0.46 162 0.86 0.95 
Total commercial 5,354 43.22 1.00 8,731 46.43 1.77 
Allowance for loan and lease losses 12,387 100.00 % 1.28 18,802 100.00 % 2.04 
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments 1,456 1,878  
Allowance for credit losses $ 13,843 $ 20,680 
Ratios are calculated as allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of loans and leases outstanding excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option.
Includes allowance for loan and lease losses for U.S. small business commercial loans of $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
n/m = not meaningful
Net charge-of fs for 2021 were $2.2 billion compared to $4.1
billion in 2020 driven by decreases across most products. The
provision for credit losse s decreased $15.9 billion to a $4.6 billion
benefit during 2021 compared to 2020. The allowance for credit
losses had a reserve release of $6.8 billion for 2021, primarily
driven by improvements in the macroeconomic outlook and credit
quality . The provision for credit losses for the consumer portfolio,
including unfunded lending commitments, decreased $6.1 billion
to a benefit of $1.2 billion during 2021 compared to 2020. The
provision for credit losses for thecommercial portfolio, including unfunded lendin g commitments,
decreased $9.8 billion to a $3.4 billion benefit for 2021 compared
to 2020.
Table 42 presents a rollforward of the allowance for credit
losses, including certain  loan and allowance ratios for 2021 and
2020. For more information on the Corporation’ s credit loss
accounting policies and activity related to the allowance for credit
losses, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting
Principles and Note 5 – Outstanding Loans and Leases and
Allowance for Credit Losses  to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.(1) (1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
73 Bank of America
Table 42Allowance for Credit Losses
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Allowance for loan and lease losses, January 1 $ 18,802 $ 12,358 
Loans and leases charged off
Residential mortgage (34) (40)
Home equity (44) (58)
Credit card (2,411) (2,967)
Direct/Indirect consumer (297) (372)
Other consumer (292) (307)
Total consumer charge-offs (3,078) (3,744)
U.S. commercial (626) (1,163)
Non-U.S. commercial (47) (168)
Commercial real estate (46) (275)
Commercial lease financing — (69)
Total commercial charge-offs (719) (1,675)
Total loans and leases charged off (3,797) (5,419)
Recoveries of loans and leases previously charged off
Residential mortgage 62 70 
Home equity 163 131 
Credit card 688 618 
Direct/Indirect consumer 296 250 
Other consumer 22 23 
Total consumer recoveries 1,231 1,092 
U.S. commercial 298 178 
Non-U.S. commercial 12 13 
Commercial real estate 12 5 
Commercial lease financing 1 10 
Total commercial recoveries 323 206 
Total recoveries of loans and leases previously charged off 1,554 1,298 
Net charge-offs (2,243) (4,121)
Provision for loan and lease losses (4,173) 10,565 
Other 1 — 
Allowance for loan and lease losses, December 31 12,387 18,802 
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, January 1 1,878 1,123 
Provision for unfunded lending commitments (421) 755 
Other (1) — 
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, December 31 1,456 1,878 
Allowance for credit losses, December 31 $ 13,843 $ 20,680 
Loan and allowance ratios :
Loans and leases outstanding at December 31 $ 971,305 $ 921,180 
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding at December 31 1.28 % 2.04 %
Consumer allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total consumer loans and leases outstanding at December 31 1.62 2.35 
Commercial allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total commercial loans and leases outstanding at December
31 1.00 1.77 
Average loans and leases outstanding $ 913,354 $ 974,281 
Annualized net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding 0.25 % 0.42 %
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases at December 31 271 380 
Ratio of the allowance for loan and lease losses at December 31 to net charge-offs 5.52 4.56 
Amounts included in allowance for loan and lease losses for loans and leases that are excluded from nonperforming loans and
leases at December 31 $ 7,027 $ 9,854 
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases, excluding the allowance for loan and
lease losses for loans and leases that are excluded from nonperforming loans and leases at December 31 117 % 181 %
Includes U.S. small business commercial charge-of fs of $425 million in 2021 compared to $321 million in 2020.
Includes U.S. small business commercial recoveries of $74 million for 2021 compared to $54 million in 2020.
Ratios are calculated as allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of loans and leases outstanding excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option.
Primarily includes amounts related to credit card and unsecured consumer lending portfolios in Consumer Banking .(1)
(2)
(3) 
(4)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Bank of America 74
Market Risk Management
Market risk is the risk that changes in market conditions may
adversely impact the value of assets or liabilities, or otherwise
negatively impact earnin gs. This risk is inherent in the financial
instruments associated with our operations, primarily within our
Global Markets  segment. We are also exposed to these risks in
other areas of the Corporation (e.g., our ALM activities). In the
event of market stress, these risks could have a material impact
on our results. For more information, see Interest Rate Risk
Management for the Banking Book on page 79.
We have been affected,  and may continue to be affected, by
market stress resulting from the pandemic that began in the first
quarter of 2020. For more information, see Part 1. Item 1A. Risk
Factors – Coronavirus Disease on page 8.
Our traditional banking loan and deposit products are non-
trading positions and are generally reported at amortized cost for
assets or the amount owed for liabilities (historical cost).
However , these positions are still subject to changes in economic
value based on varyin g market conditions, with one of the
primary risks being changes in the levels of interest rates. The
risk of adverse changes in the economic value of our non-trading
positions arising from changes in interest rates is managed
through our ALM activities. We have elected to account for
certain assets and liabilities under the fair value option.
Our trading positions are reported at fair value  with changes
reflected in income. Trading positions are subject to various
changes in market-based risk factors. The majority of this risk is
generated by our activities in the interest rate, foreign exchange,
credit, equity  and commodities markets. In addit ion, the values of
assets and liabilities could change due to market liquidity ,
correlations across markets and expectations of market volatility .
We seek to manage these risk exposures by using a variety of
techniques that encompass a broad range of financial
instruments. The key risk management techniqu es are discussed
in more detail in the Trading Risk Management section.
Global Risk Management is responsible for providing senior
management with a clear and comprehensive understanding of
the trading risks to which we are exposed. These responsibilities
include ownership of market risk policy , developing and
maintaining quantitative risk models, calculating  aggregated risk
measures, establishing and monitoring position limits consistent
with risk appetite, conducting daily reviews and analysis of
trading inven tory, approv ing material risk exposures and fulfilling
regulatory requirements. Market risks that impact businesses
outside of Global Markets  are monitored and governed by their
respective governance functions.
Model risk is the potential for adverse consequences from
decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs and
reports. Given that models are used across the Corporation,
model risk impacts all risk types including credit, market and
operational risks. The Enterprise Model Risk Policy defines
model risk standards, consistent with our Risk Framework and
risk appetite, prevailing regulatory guidance and industry best
practice. All models, including risk managemen t, valuation and
regulatory capital models, must meet certain validation criteria,
including effective challenge of the conceptual soundness of the
model, independent model testing and ongoing monitoring
through outcomes analysis and benchmarking. The Enterprise
Model Risk Committee (EMRC), a subcommittee of the MRC,
oversees that model standards are consistent with model risk
requirements and monitors the effective challenge in the model
validation process across the Corporation.Interest Rate Risk
Interest rate risk repre sents exposures to instruments whose
values vary with the level or volatility of interest rates. These
instruments include, but are not limited to, loans , debt securities,
certain tradin g-related assets and liabilities, deposits, borrowings
and derivatives. Hedging instruments used to mitigate these risks
include derivatives such as options, futures, forwards and swaps.
Foreign Exchange Risk
Foreign exchange risk represents exposures to changes in the
values of current holding s and future cash flows denominated in
currencies other than the U.S. dollar . The types of instruments
exposed to this risk include investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries,
foreign curre ncy-denominated loans and securities, future cash
flows in foreign curre ncies arising from foreign exchange
transactions, foreign currency-denominated debt and various
foreign exchange derivatives whose values  fluctuate with
changes in the level or volatility of currency exchange rates or
non-U.S. interest rates. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this
risk include foreign exch ange options, currency swaps, futures,
forwards, and foreign currency-denominated debt and deposits.
Mortgage Risk
Mortgage risk represents exposures to changes  in the values of
mortgage-related instruments. The values of these instruments
are sensitive to prepayment rates, mortgage rates, agency debt
ratings, default, market  liquidity , government participation and
interest rate volatility . Our exposure to these instruments takes
several forms. For example, we trade and engage in market-
making activities in a variety of mortgage securities including
whole loans, pass-through certificates, comme rcial mortgages
and collater alized mortgage obligations including collateralized
debt obligat ions using mortgages as underlyi ng collateral. In
addition, we originate a variety of MBS, which involves the
accumulation of mortgage-related loans in anticipation of
eventual securitization, and we may hold positions in mortgage
securities and residenti al mortgage loans as part of the ALM
portfolio. We also record MSRs as part of our mortgage
origination activities. Hedging instruments used  to mitigate this
risk include derivatives such as options, swaps, futures and
forwards as well as securities including MBS and U.S. Treasury
securities. For more information, see Mortgage Banking Risk
Management on page 80.
Equity Market Risk
Equity mark et risk represents exposures to securities that
represent an ownership interest in a corporatio n in the form of
domestic and foreign common stock or other equity-linked
instruments. Instrumen ts that would lead to this exposure
include, but are not limited to, the following: common stock,
exchange-traded funds, American Depositary Receipts,
convertible bonds, listed equity options (puts and calls), OTC
equity options, equity total return swaps, equity index futures and
other equity derivative products. Hedging instruments used to
mitigate this risk includ e options, futures, swaps, convertible
bonds and cash positions.
Commodity Risk
Commodity risk represents exposures to instru ments traded in
the petroleum, natural gas, power and metals markets. These
instruments consist primarily of futures, forwa rds, swaps and
options. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include
75 Bank of America
options, futures and swaps in the same or similar commodity
product, as well as cash positions.
Issuer Credit Risk
Issuer credit risk represents exposures to changes in the
creditworthiness of individual issuers or groups of issuers. Our
portfolio is exposed to issuer credit risk where the value of an
asset may be adversely  impacted by changes in the levels of
credit spreads, by credit migration or by defaults. Hedging
instruments used to mitigate this risk include bonds, CDS and
other credit fixed-income instruments.
Market Liquidity Risk
Market liquid ity risk represents the risk that the level of expected
market activity changes dramatically and, in certain cases, may
even cease. This expos es us to the risk that we will not be able
to transact business and execute trades in an orderly manner
which may impact our results. This impact could be further
exacerbated if expected hedging or pricing correlations are
compromised by disproportionate demand or lack of demand for
certain instruments. We utilize various risk mitigating techniques
as discussed in more detail in Trading Risk Management.
Trading Risk Management
To evaluate risks in our trading activities, we focus on the actual
and potential volatility of revenues generate d by individual
positions as well as portfolios of positions. Various techniques
and procedures are utilized to enable the most complete
understanding of these risks. Quantitative measures of market
risk are evaluated on a daily basis from a single position to the
portfolio of the Corporati on. These measures include sensitivities
of positions to various market risk factors, such as the potential
impact on revenue from a one basis point change in interest
rates, and statistical measures utilizing both actual and
hypothetical market moves, such as VaR and stress testing.
Periods of extreme mark et stress influence the reliability of these
techniques to varying degrees. Qualitative evaluations of market
risk utilize the suite of quantitative risk measures while
understanding each of their respective limitations. Additionally ,
risk managers independently evaluate the risk of the portfolios
under the current market environment and potential future
environments.
VaR is a common statistic used to measure market risk as it
allows the aggregation of market risk factors, including the effects
of portfolio diversification . A VaR model simulates the value of a
portfolio under a range  of scenarios in order to generate a
distribution of potential gains and losses. VaR represents the loss
a portfolio is not expected to exceed more than a certain number
of times per period, based on a specified holding period,
confidence level and window of historical data. We use one VaR
model cons istently across the trading portfolio s and it uses a
historical simulation approach based on a three-year window of
historical data. Our primary VaR statistic is equivalent to a 99
percent confidence level, which means that for a VaR with a one-
day holding period, there should not be losses in excess of VaR,
on average, 99 out of 100 trading days.
Within any VaR model, there are significant and numerous
assumptions that will differ from company to company . The
accuracy of a VaR model depends on the availability and quality
of historical data for each of the risk factors in the portfolio. A VaR
model may require additional modeling assumptions for new
products that do not have the necessary historical market data or
for less liquid positions for which accurate daily pricesare not consistently available. For positions with insuf ficient
historical data for the VaR calculation, the process for
establishing an appropriate proxy is based on fundamental and
statistical analysis of the new product or less liquid position. This
analysis identifies reasonable alternatives that replicate both the
expected volatility and correlation to other marke t risk factors that
the missing data would be expected to experience.
VaR may not be indicative of realized revenue volatility as
changes in market conditions or in the composition of the
portfolio can have a material impact on the results. In particular ,
the historical data used  for the VaR calculation might indicate
higher or lower levels of portfolio diversification than will be
experienced. In order for the VaR model to reflect current market
conditions, we update the historical data underlying our VaR
model on a weekly basis, or more frequently during periods of
market stress, and regularly review the assump tions underlying
the model. A minor portion of risks related to our trading positions
is not included in VaR. These risks are reviewed as part of our
ICAAP . For more information regarding ICAAP , see Capital
Management on page 49.
Global Risk Manageme nt continually reviews, evaluates and
enhances our VaR model so that it reflects the material risks in
our trading portfolio. Changes to the VaR model are reviewed
and approved prior to implementation and any material changes
are reporte d to management through the appropriate
management committees.
Trading limits on quant itative risk measures, including VaR,
are independently set by Global Markets Risk Management and
reviewed on a regular basis so that trading limits remain relevant
and within our overall risk appetite for market risks. Trading limits
are reviewed in the context of market liquidity , volatility and
strategic business priorities. Trading limits are set at both a
granular level to allow for extensive coverage of risks as well as
at aggregated portfolios to account for correlations among risk
factors. All trading limits are approved at least annually . Approved
trading limits are store d and tracked in a centralized limits
management system. Trading limit excesses are communicated
to management for review . Certain quantitative market risk
measures and corresponding limits have been identified as
critical in the Corporation’ s Risk Appetite Statement. These risk
appetite limits are reported on a daily basis and are approved at
least annually by the ERC and the Board.
In periods of market stress, Global Markets  senior leadership
communicates daily to discuss losses, key risk positions and any
limit excesses. As a result of this process, the businesses may
selectively reduce risk.
Table 43 presents the total market-based portfolio VaR, which
is the combination of the total covered positions (and less liquid
trading positions) portfolio and the fair value option portfolio.
Covered positions are defined by regulatory standards as trading
assets and liabilities, both on- and off-balance sheet, that meet a
defined set of specifications. These specificat ions identify the
most liquid trading positions which are intended to be held for a
short-term horizon and where we are able to hedge the material
risk elements in a two-way market. Positions in less liquid
markets, or where there are restrictions on the ability to trade the
positions, typically do not qualify as covered positions. Foreign
exchange and commodity positions are always considered
covered positions, except for structural foreign currency positions
that are excluded with prior regulatory approval.
Bank of America 76
In addition, Table 43 presents our fair value option portfolio,
which includes substantially all of the funded and unfunded
exposures for which we elect the fair value option, and their
corresponding hedges. Additionally , market risk VaR for trading
activities as presented in Table 43 differs from VaR used for
regulatory capital calculations due to the holding period being
used. The holding period for VaR used for regulatory capital
calculations is 10 days, while for the market risk VaR presented
below , it is one day. Both measures utilize the same process and
methodology .
The total market-based portfolio VaR results in Table 43
include mark et risk to which we are exposed from all business
segments, excluding credit valuation adjustment  (CVA), DVA and
related hedges. The majority of this portfolio is within the Global
Markets  segment.Table 43 presents year-end, average, high and low daily
trading VaR for 2021 and 2020 using a 99 percent confidence
level. The amounts disclosed in Table 43 and Table 44 align to
the view of covered positions used in the Basel 3 capital
calculations. Foreign exchange and commodity positions are
always considered covered positions, regardless of trading or
banking treatment for the trade, except for structural foreign
currency positions that are excluded with prior regulatory
approval.
The annual average of total covered positions and less liquid
trading positions portfolio VaR decreased for 2021 compared to
2020 primarily due to an increase in diversificat ion across asset
classes.
Table 43Market Risk VaR for Trading Activities
2021 2020
(Dollars in millions)Year
End Average High LowYear
End Average High Low
Foreign exchange $ 11 $ 12 $ 21 $ 5 $ 8 $ 7 $ 25 $ 2 
Interest rate 54 40 80 16 30 19 39 7 
Credit 73 69 84 53 79 58 91 25 
Equity 21 24 35 19 20 24 162 12 
Commodities 6 8 28 4 4 6 12 3 
Portfolio diversification (114) (100) — — (72) (61) — — 
Total covered positions portfolio 51 53 85 34 69 53 171 27 
Impact from less liquid exposures 8 20 — — 52 27 — — 
Total covered positions and less liquid trading positions portfolio 59 73 125 46 121 80 169 30 
Fair value option loans 51 50 65 31 52 52 84 7 
Fair value option hedges 15 16 20 11 11 13 17 9 
Fair value option portfolio diversification (27) (32) — — (17) (24) — — 
Total fair value option portfolio 39 34 53 23 46 41 86 9 
Portfolio diversification (24) (10) — — (4) (15) — — 
Total market-based portfolio $ 74 $ 97 169 54 $ 163 $ 106 171 32 
The high and low for each portfolio may have occurred on different tradin g days than the high and low for the components. Therefore the impact from less liquid exposures and the amount of portfolio
diversification, which is the dif ference between the total portfolio and the sum of the individual components, is not relevant.
Impact is net of diversification ef fects between the covered positions and less liquid trading positions portfolios.
The graph below presen ts the daily covered positions and less liquid trading positions portfolio VaR for 2021, corresponding to the
data in Table 43.
 (1)  (1)  (1)  (1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
77 Bank of America
Additional VaR statistics produced within our single VaR
model are provided in Table 44 at the same level of detail as in
Table 43. Evaluating VaR with additional statistics allows for an
increased understanding of the risks in the portfolio, as thehistorical market data used in the VaR calculation does not
necessarily follow a predefined statistical distribution. Table 44
presents average trading VaR statistics at 99 percent and 95
percent confidence levels for 2021 and 2020.
Table 44Average Market Risk VaR for Trading Activities – 99 percent and 95 percent VaR Statistics
2021 2020
(Dollars in millions) 99 percent 95 percent 99 percent 95 percent
Foreign exchange $ 12 $ 8 $ 7 $ 4 
Interest rate 40 20 19 9 
Credit 69 21 58 18 
Equity 24 12 24 13 
Commodities 8 4 6 3 
Portfolio diversification (100) (39) (61) (26)
Total covered positions portfolio 53 26 53 21 
Impact from less liquid exposures 20 2 27 2 
Total covered positions and less liquid trading positions portfolio 73 28 80 23 
Fair value option loans 50 12 52 13 
Fair value option hedges 16 9 13 7 
Fair value option portfolio diversification (32) (9) (24) (8)
Total fair value option portfolio 34 12 41 12 
Portfolio diversification (10) (7) (15) (6)
Total market-based portfolio $ 97 $ 33 $ 106 $ 29 
Backtesting
The accuracy of the VaR methodology is evaluated by
backtesting, which compares the daily VaR results, utilizing a
one-day holding period, against a comparable subset of trading
revenue. A backtesting excess occurs when a trading loss
exceeds the VaR for the corresponding day. These excesses are
evaluated to understand the positions and market moves that
produced the trading loss with a goal to ensure that the VaR
methodology accurately represents those losses. We expect the
frequency of trading losses in excess of VaR to be in line with the
confidence level of the VaR statistic being tested. For example,
with a 99 percent confid ence level, we expect one trading loss in
excess of VaR every 100 days or between two to three trading
losses in excess of VaR over the course of a year. The number of
backtesting excesses observed can differ from the statistically
expected number of excesses if the current level of market
volatility is materially different than the level of market volatility
that existed during the three years of historical data used in the
VaR calculation.
The trading revenue used for backtesting is defined by
regulatory agencies in order to most closely align with the VaR
component of the regulatory capital calculation. This revenue
differs from total trading-related revenue in that it excludes
revenue from trading activities that either do not generate market
risk or the market risk cannot be included in VaR. Some
examples of the types of revenue excluded for backtesting are
fees, commissions, reserves, net interest income and intra-day
trading revenues.
We conduct daily backtesting on the VaR results used for
regulatory capital calculations as well as the VaR results for key
legal entities , regions and risk factors. These results are reported
to senior market risk management. Senior management regularly
reviews and evaluates the results of these tests.
During 2021 , there were two days where this subset of
trading revenue had losses that exceeded our total covered
portfolio V aR, utilizing a one-day holding period.Total Trading-related Revenue
Total trading-related revenue, excluding brokerage fees, and
CVA, DVA and funding valuation adjustment  gains (losses),
represents the total amount earned from trading positions,
including market-based net interest income, which are taken in a
diverse range of financial instruments and markets. For more
information on fair value, see Note 20 – Fair Value
Measurements  to the Consolidated Financial Statement s.
Trading-related revenue  can be volatile and is largely driven by
general market condition s and customer demand. Also, trading-
related revenue is dependent on the volume and type of
transactions, the level of risk assumed, and the volatility of price
and rate movements at any given time within the ever-changing
market environment. Significant daily revenue by business is
monitored and the primary drivers of these are reviewed.
The following histogram is a graphic depiction of trading
volatility and illustrates the daily level of trading-related revenue
for 2021 and 2020. During 2021, positive trading-related revenue
was recorded for 97 percent of the trading days, of which 80
percent were daily trading gains of over $25 million, and the
largest loss was $45 million. This compares to 2020 where
positive trading-related revenue was recorded for 98 percent of
the trading days, of which 87 percent were daily trading gains of
over $25 million, and the largest loss was $90 million.
Bank of America 78
Trading Portfolio Stress Testing
Because the very natur e of a VaR model suggests results can
exceed our estimates and it is dependent on a limited historical
window , we also stress test our portfolio using scenario analysis.
This analysi s estimates the change in the value of our trading
portfolio that may result from abnormal market movements.
A set of scenarios, categorized as either historical or
hypothetical, are computed daily for the overall trading portfolio
and individual businesses. These scenarios include shocks to
underlying market risk factors that may be well beyond the
shocks found in the historical data used to calculate VaR.
Historical scenarios simulate the impact of the market moves that
occurred during a period of extended historical market stress.
Generally , a multi-week period representing the most severe
point during  a crisis is selected for each historical scenario.
Hypothetical scenarios provide estimated portfolio impacts from
potential future market stress events. Scenari os are reviewed
and updated in response to changing positions and new
economic or political information. In addition, new or ad hoc
scenarios are developed to address specific potential market
events or particular vulnerabilities in the portfolio. The stress
tests are reviewed on a regular basis and the results are
presented to senior management.
Stress testing for the trading portfolio is integrated with
enterprise-wide stress testing and incorporate d into the limits
framework. The macroeconomic scenarios used for enterprise-
wide stress testing purposes differ from the typical trading
portfolio scenarios in that they have a longer time horizon and the
results are forecasted over multiple periods for use in
consolidated capital and liquidity planning. For more information,
see Managing Risk on page 46.
Interest Rate Risk Management for the
Banking Book
The following discussion presents net interest income for banking
book activities.
Interest rate risk represents the most significant market risk
exposure to our banking book balance sheet. Interest rate risk is
measured as the potential change in net interes t income caused
by moveme nts in market interest rates. Client -facing activities,
primarily lending and deposit-taking, create interest rate sensitive
positions on our balance sheet.
We prepare forward-looking forecasts of net interest income.
The baseline forecast takes into consideration  expected future
business growth, ALM positioning -and the direction of interest
rate movements as implied by the market-based forward curve.
We then measure and evaluate the impact that alternative
interest rate scenarios have on the baseline forecast in order to
assess interest rate sensitivity under varied conditions. The net
interest income forecast is frequently updated for changing
assumptions and differing outlooks based on economic trends,
market conditions and business strategies. Thus, we continually
monitor our balance sheet position in order to maintain an
acceptable level of exposure to interest rate changes.
The interest rate scen arios that we analyze  incorporate
balance sheet assumptions such as loan and deposit growth and
pricing, changes in funding mix, product repricing, maturity
characteristics and investment securities premi um amortization.
Our overall  goal is to manage interest rate risk so that
movements in interest rates do not significantly adversely affect
earnings and capital.
Table 45 presents the spot and 12-month forwa rd rates used
in our baseline forecasts at December 31, 2021 and 2020.Table 45Forward Rates
December 31, 2021
 Federal
FundsThree-month
LIBOR10-Year
Swap
Spot rates 0.25 % 0.21 % 1.58 %
12-month forward rates 1.00 1.07 1.84 
December 31, 2020
Spot rates 0.25 % 0.24 % 0.93 %
12-month forward rates 0.25 0.19 1.06 
Table 46 shows the pretax impact to forecaste d net interest
income over the next 12 months from December 31, 2021 and
2020 resulting from instantaneous parallel and non-parallel
shocks to the market- based forward curve. Periodically , we
evaluate the scenarios presented so that they are meaningful in
the context of the current rate environment. The interest rate
scenarios also assume U.S. dollar rates are floored at zero.
During 2021 , the overall decrease in asset sensitivity of our
balance sheet to Up-rate and Down-rate scenarios was primarily
due to ALM activity and an increase in long-end rates. We
continue to be asset sensitive to a parallel upward move in
interest rates with the majority of that impact coming from the
short end of the yield curve. Additionally , higher interest rates
impact the fair value of debt securities and, accordingly , for debt
securities classified as AFS, may adversely affect accumulated
OCI and thus capital levels under the Basel 3 capital rules. Under
instantaneous upward parallel shifts, the near-term adverse
impact to Basel 3 capital is reduced over time by offsetting
positive impacts to net interest income. For more information on
Basel 3, see Capital Management – Regulatory Capital on page
50.
Table 46Estimated Banking Book Net Interest
Income Sensitivity to Curve Changes
Short
Rate
(bps)Long
Rate
(bps)December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Parallel Shifts
+100 bps
instantaneous shift +100 +100$ 6,542 $ 10,468 
-25 bps
instantaneous shift -25 -25 (2,092) (2,766)
Flatteners   
Short-end
instantaneous change +100 — 4,982 6,321 
Long-end
instantaneous change — -25 (735) (1,686)
Steepeners   
Short-end
instantaneous change -25 — (1,344) (1,084)
Long-end
instantaneous change — +100 1,646 4,333 
The sensitiv ity analysis in Table 46 assumes that we take no
action in response to these rate shocks and does not assume
any change in other macroeconomic variables normally
correlated with changes in interest rates. As part of our ALM
activities, we use secur ities, certain residential mortgages, and
interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives in managing
interest rate sensitivity .
The behavior of our deposits portfolio in the baseline forecast
and in alternate interest rate scenarios is a key assumption in our
projected estimates of net interest income. The sensitivity
analysis in Table 46 assumes no change in
79 Bank of America
deposit portfolio size or mix from the base line forecast in
alternate rate environments. In higher rate scenarios, any
customer activity resulting in the replacement of low-cost or
noninterest-bearing deposits with higher yielding deposits or
market-based funding would reduce our benefit in those
scenarios.
Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Derivative
Contracts
We use interest rate and foreign exchange deriv ative contracts in
our ALM activities to manage our interest rate and foreign
exchange risks. Specifically , we use those derivatives to manage
both the variability in cash flows and changes  in fair value of
various asse ts and liabilities arising from those risks. Our interest
rate derivativ e contracts  are generally non-leveraged swaps tied
to various benchmark interest rates and foreign exchange basis
swaps, options, futures and forwards, and our foreign exchange
contracts include cross-currency interest rate swaps, foreign
currency futures contracts, foreign currency forward contracts
and options.
The derivatives used in our ALM activities can be split into two
broad categories: designated accounting hedges and other risk
management derivative s. Designated accounting hedges are
primarily used to manage our exposure to interest rates as
described in the Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking
Book sectio n and are included in the sensitivit ies presented in
Table 46. The Corporation also uses foreign currency derivatives
in accountin g hedges to manage substantially all of the foreign
exchange risk of our foreign operations. By hedging the foreign
exchange risk of our foreign operations, the Corporation's market
risk exposure in this area is insignificant.
Risk management derivatives are predomina ntly used to
hedge foreign exchange risks related to various foreign currency-
denominated assets and liabilities and eliminate  substantially all
foreign currency exposures in the cash flows of the Corporation’ s
non-trading foreign currency-denominated financial instruments.
These foreign exchange derivatives are sensitive to other market
risk exposures such as cross-currency basis spreads and interest
rate risk. However , as these features are not a significant
component of these foreign exchange derivatives, the market risk
related to this exposure  is insignificant. For more information on
the account ing for derivatives, see Note 3 – Derivatives  to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Mortgage Banking Risk Management
We originate, fund and service mortgage loans, which subject us
to credit, liquidity and interest rate risks, among others. We
determine whether loans will be held for investment or held for
sale at the time of commitment and manage credit and liquidity
risks by selling or securitizing a portion of the loans we originate.
Interest rate risk and market risk can be substantial in the
mortgage business. Changes in interest rates and other market
factors impact the volume of mortgage originations. Changes in
interest rates also impact the value of interest rate lock
commitments (IRLCs) and the related residenti al first mortgage
LHFS between the date of the IRLC and the date the loans aresold to the secondary market. An increase in mortgage interest
rates typically leads to a decrease in the value of these
instruments. Conversely , when there is an increase in interest
rates, the value of the MSRs will increase driven by lower
prepayment expectations. Because the interest rate risks of
these hedge d items offset, we combine them into one overall
hedged item with one combined economic hedge portfolio
consisting of derivative contracts and securities.
During 2021, 2020 and 2019, we recorded gains of $39
million, $321  million and $291 million. For more information on
MSRs, see Note 20 – Fair Value Measurements  to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Compliance and Operational Risk
Management
Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions,
material financial loss or damage to the reputation of the
Corporation arising from the failure of the Corpo ration to comply
with the requirements of applicable laws, rules, regulations and
our internal policies and procedures (collectively , applicable laws,
rules and regulations). We are subject to comprehensive
regulation under federal  and state laws, rules and regulations in
the U.S. and the laws of the various jurisdictio ns in which we
operate, including those related to financial crimes and anti-
money laund ering, market conduct, trading activities, fair lending,
privacy , data protection and unfair , deceptive or abusive acts or
practices.
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or
failed processes or systems, people or external events, and
includes legal risk. Operational risk may occur anywhere in the
Corporation, including third-party business proce sses, and is not
limited to operations functions. The Corporation faces a number
of key operational risks including third-party risk, model risk,
conduct risk, technology risk, information security risk and data
risk. Operational risk can result in financial losses and
reputational impacts and is a component in the calculation of total
RWA used in the Basel 3 capital calcula tion. For more
information on Basel 3 calculations, see Capital Management on
page 49.
FLUs and control functions are first and foremost responsible
for managing all aspects of their businesses, including their
compliance and operational risk. FLUs and control functions are
required to understand their business processes and related risks
and controls , including third-party dependencies  and the related
regulatory requirements, and monitor and report on the
effectiveness of the control environment. In order to actively
monitor and assess the performance of their processes and
controls, they must conduct comprehensive quality assurance
activities and identify issues and risks to remediate control gaps
and weaknesses. FLUs and control functions must also adhere to
compliance and operational risk appetite limits to meet strategic,
capital and financial planning objectives. Finally, FLUs and
control funct ions are responsible for the proact ive identification,
management and escalation of compliance and operational risks
across the Corporation. Collectively , these efforts are important to
strengthen their compliance and operational resiliency , which is
the ability to deliver critical operations through disruption.
Bank of America 80
Global Compliance and Operational Risk teams
independently assess compliance and operational risk, monitor
business activities and processes and evaluate FLUs and control
functions for adherence to applicable laws, rules and regulations,
including identifying issues and risks, determining and developing
tests to be conducted by the Enterprise Independent Testing unit
and reporting on the state of the control environment. Enterprise
Independent Testing, an independent testing function within
GRM, works with Global Compliance and Operational Risk, the
FLUs and control functions in the identification of testing needs
and test design, and is accountable for test execution, reporting
and analysis of results. Corporate Audit provides an independent
assessment and validation through testing of key compliance and
operational risk processes and controls across the Corporation.
The Corpora tion's Glob al Compliance Enterprise Policy and
Operational Risk Management – Enterprise Policy set the
requirements for reporting compliance and operational risk
information to executive management as well as the Board or
appropriate Board-level committees and reflect Global
Compliance and Operational Risk’ s responsibilities for
conducting independe nt oversight of the Corporation’ s
compliance and operational risk managemen t activities. The
Board provides oversight of compliance risk through its Audit
Committee and the ERC, and operational risk through its ERC.
A key operational risk facing the Corporation is information
security , which includes cybersecurity . Cybersecurity risk
represents, among other things, exposure to failures or
interruptions of service or breaches of security , including as a
result of malicious technological attacks, that impact the
confidentiality , availability or integrity of our or third parties'
operations, systems or data. The Corporation seeks to mitigate
information security risk and associated reputational and
compliance risk by employing a multi-layered and intelligence-led
Global Information Security Program, which is focused on
preparing for, preventing , detecting, mitigating, responding to and
recovering from cyber threats and incidents and ensuring the
Corporation’ s processes operate effectively and mitigate the
aforementioned risks.
The Global Information Security Program is supported by
three lines of defense. The Global Information Security Team
within the first line of defense is responsible for the day-to-day
management of the Global Information Security  Program, which
includes defining policies and procedures to safeguard the
Corporation’ s information systems and data, conducting
vulnerability and third-party information security assessments,
information security event management (e.g., responding to
ransomware and distributed denial of service attacks), evaluation
of external cyber intelligence, supporting industry cybersecurity
efforts and working with governmental agencies, as well as
developing employee training to support adherence to the
Corporation’ s policies and procedures. As the second line of
defense, Global Complia nce and Operational Risk independently
assesses, monitors and tests information security risk across the
Corporation as well as the effectiveness of the Global Information
Security Program. Corporate Audit serves as the third line of
defense, conducting additional independent review and validation
of the first line processes and functions.Through established governance structures , we have
processes to help facilitate appropriate and effective oversight of
information security risk. These routines enable our three lines of
defense and management to debate information security risks
and monitor control performance to allow for further escalation to
executive management, management and Board-level
committees or to the Board, as appropriate. The Board is actively
engaged in the oversight of Bank of America’ s Global Information
Security Program, primarily through the ERC.
Reputational Risk Management
Reputational risk is the risk that negative perception of the
Corporation may adversely impact profitability  or operations.
Reputational risk may result from many of the Corporation’ s
activities, including those related to the management of our
strategic, operational, compliance and credit risks.
The Corpo ration manages reputational risk through
established policies and controls embedded  throughout its
business and risk management processes. We proactively
monitor and identify potential reputational risk events and have
processes established to mitigate reputational risks in a timely
manner . If reputational risk events occur , we focus on
remediating the underlying issue and taking action to minimize
damage to the Corporation’ s reputation. The Corporation has
processes and procedures in place to respond to events that give
rise to reputational risk, including educating individuals and
organizations that influence public opinion, implementing external
communication strategies to mitigate the risk, and informing key
stakeholders of potential reputational risks. The Corporation’ s
organization and governance structure provid es oversight of
reputational risks. Reputational risk reporting is provided
regularly and directly to management and the ERC, which
provides primary oversight of reputational risk. In addition, each
FLU has a committee, which includes representatives from Legal
and Risk, that is responsible for the oversight of reputational risk,
including approval for business activities that present elevated
levels of reputational risks.
Climate Risk Management
Climate-related risks are divided into two major categories: (1)
risks related to the transition to a low-carbon economy , which
may entail extensive policy , legal, technolo gy and market
changes, and (2) risks related to the physical impacts of climate
change, driven by extreme weather events, such as hurricanes
and floods, as well as chronic longer-term shifts, such as rising
average global temperatures and sea-level rise. These changes
and events can have broad impacts on operations, supply
chains, distribution networks, customers and markets and are
otherwise referred to, respectively , as transition risk and physical
risk. These risks can impact both financial and nonfinancial risk
types. The impacts of transition risk can lead to and amplify credit
risk or market risk by reducing our customers’  operating income
or the value  of their assets as well as expose us to reputational
and/or litigation risk due to increased regulatory scrutiny or
negative public sentiment. Physical risk can lead to increased
credit risk by diminishing borrowers’  repayment capacity or
impacting the value of collateral. In addition, it could pose
increased operational risk to our facilities and people.
81 Bank of America
Effective management of climate risk requires coordinated
governance, clearly defined roles and respons ibilities and well-
developed processes to identify , measure, monitor and control
risks. We continue to build out and enhance our climate risk
management capabilitie s. As climate risk is interconnected with
all key risk types, we have developed and continue to enhance
processes to embed climate risk considerations into our Risk
Framework and risk management programs established for
strategic, credit, marke t, liquidity , compliance, operational and
reputational risks. Our Environmental and Social Risk Policy
Framework (ESRPF) aligns with our Risk Framework and
provides additional clarity and transparency regarding our
approach to environmental and social risks, inclusive of climate
risk.
Our governa nce framew ork establishes oversight of climate
risk practices and strategies by the Board, supported by its
Corporate Governance, ESG, and Sustainability Committee and
ERC, as well as the MRC and the Global ESG Committee, both
of which are management-level committees comprised of senior
leaders across every major FLU and control function.
Our climate risk management efforts are overseen by the
Global Climate Risk Executive who reports to the CRO. The
Global Climate Risk Executive chairs the Climate Risk Steering
Council, which meets monthly and shapes our approach to
managing climate-related risks in line with our Risk Framework.
As outlined in our ESRP F, we are focused on supporting and
financing areas critical to the transition to a low-carbon economy .
Accordingly , we have a goal, publicly announced in early 2021, to
achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions in our financing
activities, operations and supply chain before 2050 (Net Zero
Goal). More broadly , achieving this goal will require technological
advances, clearly defined roadmaps for industry sectors, public
policies, and better emissions data reporting, as well as ongoing,
strong and active engag ement with clients, suppliers, investors,
government of ficials and other stakeholders.
Our progres s towards achieving our Net Zero Goal is based
on establishing the baseline for emissions associated with our
financing activities often referred to as financed emissions.
Currently , we are using the Partnership for Carbon Accounting
Financials methodology to assess our financed emissions.
Additionally , given the urgency required to address climate
change, we helped to launch the Net Zero Banking Alliance
(NZBA) in April 2021, which outlines guidelines for banks to
achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions including
requirements for setting interim targets. As a member of NZBA,
the Corporation and more than 100 other financial institution
members representing more than 40 percent of the world’ s
banking assets, have committed to set emission reduction targets
for 2030. We plan to begin disclosure of financ ed emissions by
2023, and set 2030 targets for the signific ant majority of
emissions in our portfolio.
In 2021, we also announced a goal to deploy $1 trillion by
2030 to accelerate the transition to a low-carbon, sustainable
economy by providing lending, capital raising, advisory and
investment services, and by developing other client-driven
financial solutions. This commitment anchors a broader $1.5trillion susta inable finan ce goal to support both environmental
transition and social inclusive development , which spans
business activities across the globe. These goals are intended to
help drive business opportunities and enhance risk management
related to the transition to a low-carbon economy .
For more information about climate risk, see the Bank of
America website. For more information about the Corporation’ s
climate-related goals and commitments, including emissions
associated with our operations and supply chain  and progress on
our sustainable finance goals, see the Corporation’ s 2021 Annual
Report to shareholders  that will be available on the Investor
Relations portion of our website in March 2022.  The contents of
the Corporation’ s website and 2021 Annual Report to
shareholders are not incorporated by reference into this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.
The foregoing discussion and our discussion in the 2021
Annual Report to shareholders regarding our goals and
commitments with respect to climate risk management, including
environmental transition considerations, include “forward-looking
statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of
future results or performance and involve certain known and
unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to
predict and are often beyond the Corporation’ s control. Actual
outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed
in, or implied by , any of these forward-looking statements.
Complex Accounting Estimates
Our significant accounting principles, as descri bed in Note 1 –
Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  to the Cons olidated
Financial Statements, are essential in understanding the MD&A.
Many of our significant  accounting principles require complex
judgments to estimate the values of assets and liabilities. We
have procedures and processes in place to facilitate making
these judgments.
The more judgmental estimates are summarized in the
following discussion. We have identified and described the
development of the variables most important in the estimation
processes that involve mathematical models to derive the
estimates. In many cases, there are numerous alternative
judgments that could be used in the process of determining the
inputs to the models. Where alternatives exist, we have used the
factors that we believe represent the most reasonable value in
developing the inputs. Actual performance that differs from our
estimates of the key variables could materially impact our results
of operations. Separate from the possible future impact to our
results of operations from input and model variables, the value of
our lending portfolio and market-sensitive asse ts and liabilities
may change subsequent to the balance sheet date, often
significantly , due to the nature and magnitude of future credit and
market conditions. Such credit and market conditions may
change quickly and in unforeseen ways and the resulting volatility
could have a significant, negative effect on future operating
results. These fluctuations would not be indicative of deficiencies
in our models or inputs.
Bank of America 82
Allowance for Credit Losses
The allowance for credi t losses includes the allowance for loan
and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending
commitments. Our process for determining the allowance for
credit losses  is discussed in Note 1 – Summary of Significant
Accounting Principles  and Note 5 – Outstanding Loans and
Leases and Allowance for Credit Losses  to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
The determination of allowance for credit losses is based on
numerous estimates and assumptions, which  require a high
degree of judgment and are often interrelated. A critical judgment
in the process is the weighting of our forward-looking
macroeconomic scena rios that are incorpo rated into our
quantitative models. As any one economic outlook is inherently
uncertain, the Corporation uses multiple macroeconomic
scenarios in its expected credit losses (ECL) calculation, which
have included a baseline scenario, which is derived from
consensus estimates, downside scenarios, a tail risk scenario
similar to the severely adverse scenario used in stress testing
and an upside scenario. Beginning in 2020, the scenarios
incorporated the potential impacts of the pandemic and,
beginning in the second quarter in 2021, an additional scenario
was added to account for inflationary risk and higher interest
rates. Generally , as the consensus estima tes improve or
deteriorate, the allowance for credit losses will change in a
similar direction.
There are multiple variables that drive the macroeconomic
scenarios with the key variables including, but not limited to, U.S.
gross domestic product (GDP) and unemployment rates. As of
December 31, 2020, the weighted macroeconomic outlook for
U.S. average unemployment rate was forecasted at 6.6 percent,
5.5 percent and 5.0 percent in the fourth quarters of 2021, 2022
and 2023, respectively , and the weighted macroe conomic outlook
for U.S. GDP  was forecasted to grow at 2.5 percent, 2.4 percent
and 2.1 percent year-over-year in the fourth quarters of 2021,
2022 and 2023, respecti vely. As of December 31, 2021 the latest
consensus estimates for the U.S. average unemployment rate for
the fourth quarter of 2021 was 4.4 percent and U.S. GDP  was
forecasted to grow 5.2 percent year-over-year in the fourth
quarter of 2021, both of which were meaningfully better than our
macroeconomic outlook as of December 31, 2020 and were
factored into our December 31, 2021 allowance for credit losses
estimate. In addition, as of December 31, 2021, the weighted
macroeconomic outlook for the U.S. average unemployment rate
was forecasted at 5.2 percent and 4.7 percent in the fourth
quarters of 2022 and 2023, and the weighted macroeconomic
outlook for U.S. GDP  was forecasted to grow 2.1 percent and 1.9
percent year-over-year in the fourth quarters of 2022 and 2023.
In addition to the above judgments and estimates, the
allowance for credit losses can also be impacted by
unanticipated changes in asset quality of the portfolio, such as
increases or decreases in credit and/or internal risk ratings in our
commercial portfolio, improvement or deteriora tion in borrower
delinquencies or credit scores in our credit card portfolio and
increases or decreases in home prices, which is a primary driver
of LTVs, in our consumer real estate portfolio, allof which have some degree of uncertainty . As the
macroeconomic outloo k improved in 2021, along with
improvements in asset quality , the allowance for credit losses
decreased to $13.8 billion from $20.7 billion at December 31,
2020.
To provide an illustration of the sensitivity of the
macroeconomic scenar ios and other assum ptions on the
estimate of our allowance for credit losses, the Corporation
compared the December 31, 2021 modeled ECL from the
baseline scenario and our downside scenario. Relative to the
baseline scenario, the downside scenario assumed a peak U.S.
unemployment rate of approximately three percentage points
higher than the consensus outlook, a declin e in U.S. GDP
followed by a prolonged recovery and a lower home price outlook
with a difference of 14 percent at the trough. This sensitivity
analysis resulted in a hypothetical increase in the allowance for
credit losses of approximately $5 billion.
While the sensitivity analysis may be useful to understand
how changes in macroeconomic assumptions could impact our
modeled ECLs, it is not meant to forecast how our allowance for
credit losses is expected to change in a different macroeconomic
outlook. Importantly , the analysis does not incorporate a variety
of factors, including qualitative reserves and the weighting of
alternate scenarios, which could have offsetting effects on the
estimate. Considering the variety of factors contemplated when
developing and weighting macroeconomic outlooks such as
recent economic events, leading economic indicators, views of
internal and third-party economists and industry trends, in
addition to other qualitative factors, the Corporation believes the
allowance for credit losses at December 31, 2021 is appropriate.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Under applicable accounting standards, we are required to
maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of
unobservable inputs in measuring fair value. We classify fair
value measurements of financial instruments and MSRs based
on the three-level fair value hierarchy in the accounting
standards.
The fair values of assets and liabilities may include
adjustments, such as market liquidity and credit quality , where
appropriate. Valuations of products using models or other
techniques are sensitive to assumptions used for the significant
inputs. Where market data is available, the inputs used for
valuation reflect that information as of our valuation date. Inputs
to valuation models are considered unobservable if they are
supported by little or no market activity . In periods of extreme
volatility , lessened liquid ity or in illiquid markets, there may be
more variability in marke t pricing or a lack of market data to use
in the valuat ion process. In keeping with the prudent application
of estimates and management judgment in determining the fair
value of assets and liabilities, we have in place various
processes and controls that include: a model validation policy
that requires review and approval of quantitative  models used for
deal pricing, financial statement fair value determination and risk
quantification; a trading product valuation policy that requires
verification of all traded product valuations; and a periodic review
and substantiation of daily profit and loss
83 Bank of America
reporting for all traded products. Primarily through validation
controls, we utilize both broker and pricing service inputs which
can and do include both market-observable  and internally-
modeled values and/or valuation inputs. Our reliance on this
information is affected by our understanding of how the broker
and/or pricin g service develops its data with a higher degree of
reliance applied to those that are more directly observable and
lesser reliance applied to those developed through their own
internal modeling. For example, broker quotes in less active
markets may only be indicative and therefore less reliable. These
processes and controls are performed independently of the
business. For more information, see Note 20 – Fair Value
Measurements  and Note 21 – Fair Value Option  to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Level 3 Assets and Liabilities
Financial assets and liabilities, and MSRs, where values are
based on valuation techniques that require inputs that are both
unobservable and are significant to the overall fair value
measurement are classified as Level 3 under the fair value
hierarchy established in applicable accounting standards. The
fair value of these Level 3 financial assets and liabilities and
MSRs is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow
methodologies or similar techniques for which the determination
of fair value requires significant manageme nt judgment or
estimation.
Level 3 financial instruments may be hedged with derivatives
classified as Level 1 or 2; therefore, gains or losses associated
with Level 3 financial instruments may be offset by gains or
losses asso ciated with financial instruments classified in other
levels of the fair value hierarchy . The Level 3 gains and losses
recorded in earnings did not have a significant impact on our
liquidity or capital. We conduct a review of our fair value
hierarchy classifications on a quarterly basis. Transfers into or
out of Level 3 are made if the significant inputs used in the
financial models measuring the fair values of the assets and
liabilities became unob servable or observable, respectively , in
the current marketplace. For more information on transfers into
and out of Level 3 during 2021, 2020 and 2019, see Note 20 –
Fair Value Measurements  to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
Accrued Income Taxes and Deferred Tax Assets
Accrued income taxes, reported as a component of either other
assets or accrued expenses and other liabilities on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet, represent the net amount of current
income taxes we expect to pay to or receive from various taxing
jurisdictions attributable to our operations to date. We currently
file income tax returns in more than 100 jurisdictions and
consider many factors, including statutory , judicial andregulatory guidance, in estimating the appropriate accrued
income taxes for each jurisdiction.
Net deferred tax assets , reported as a component of other
assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, represent the net
decrease in taxes expe cted to be paid in the future because of
net operating loss (NOL) and tax credit carryforwards and
because of future reversals of temporary differences in the bases
of assets and liabilities as measured by tax laws and their bases
as reported in the financial statements. NOL and tax credit
carryforwards result in reductions to future tax liabilities, and
many of these attributes  can expire if not utilized within certain
periods. We consider the need for valuation allowances to reduce
net deferred  tax assets to the amounts that we estimate are more
likely than not to be realized.
Consistent with the applicable accounting guidance, we
monitor relevant tax authorities and change our estimates of
accrued income taxes and/or net deferred tax assets due to
changes in income tax laws and their interpretat ion by the courts
and regulatory authorities. These revisions of our estimates,
which also may result from our income tax planning and from the
resolution of income tax audit matters, may be material to our
operating results for any given period.
See Note 19 – Income Taxes  to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for a table of significant tax attributes and
additional information. For more information, see page 18 under
Item 1A. Risk Factors – Regulatory , Compliance and Legal.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
The nature of and accounting for goodwill and intangible assets
are discussed in Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting
Principles , and Note 7 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets  to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
We completed our annual goodwill impairment test as of June
30, 2021 by using a qualitative assessment to determine whether
it was more  likely than not that the fair value of each reporting
unit was less than its respective carrying value. Factors
considered in the qualitative assessment includ ed, among other
things, macroeconomi c conditions, industry and market
considerations, financial  performance of the respective reporting
unit and other releva nt entity- and report ing-unit specific
considerations. Based on our qualitative asses sment, we have
concluded that it was not “more likely than not” that the reporting
units ’ fair values were less than their carrying values.
Certain Contingent Liabilities
For more information on the complex judgments associated with
certain contingent liabilities, see Note 12 – Commitments and
Contingencies  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Bank of America 84
Non-GAAP  Reconciliations
Tables 47 and 48 provide reconciliations of certain non-GAAP  financial measures to GAAP  financial measures.
Table 47Annual Reconciliations to GAAP Financial Measures 
(Dollars in millions, shares in thousands) 2021 2020 2019
Reconciliation of average shareholders’ equity to average tangible shareholders’ equity and average tangible
common shareholders’ equity 
  
Shareholders’ equity $ 273,757 $ 267,309 $ 267,889 
Goodwill (69,005) (68,951) (68,951)
Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (2,177) (1,862) (1,721)
Related deferred tax liabilities 916 821 773 
Tangible shareholders’ equity $ 203,491 $ 197,317 $ 197,990 
Preferred stock (23,970) (23,624) (23,036)
Tangible common shareholders’ equity $ 179,521 $ 173,693 $ 174,954 
Reconciliation of year-end shareholders’ equity to year-end tangible shareholders’ equity and year-end tangible
common shareholders’ equity  
Shareholders’ equity $ 270,066 $ 272,924 $ 264,810 
Goodwill (69,022) (68,951) (68,951)
Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (2,153) (2,151) (1,661)
Related deferred tax liabilities 929 920 713 
Tangible shareholders’ equity $ 199,820 $ 202,742 $ 194,911 
Preferred stock (24,708) (24,510) (23,401)
Tangible common shareholders’ equity $ 175,112 $ 178,232 $ 171,510 
Reconciliation of year-end assets to year-end tangible assets   
Assets $3,169,495 $2,819,627 $2,434,079 
Goodwill (69,022) (68,951) (68,951)
Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (2,153) (2,151) (1,661)
Related deferred tax liabilities 929 920 713 
Tangible assets $3,099,249 $2,749,445 $2,364,180 
Presents reconciliations of non-GAA P financial measures to GAAP  financial measures. For more information on non-GAAP  financial measure s and ratios we use in assessing the results of the
Corporation, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 31.
Table 48Quarterly Reconciliations to GAAP Financial Measures 
2021 Quarters 2020 Quarters
(Dollars in millions) Fourth Third Second First Fourth Third Second First
Reconciliation of average shareholders’
equity to average tangible shareholders’
equity and average tangible common
shareholders’ equity         
Shareholders’ equity $270,883 $275,484 $274,632 $274,047 $271,020 $267,323 $266,316 $264,534 
Goodwill (69,022) (69,023) (69,023) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951)
Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (2,166) (2,185) (2,212) (2,146) (2,173) (1,976) (1,640) (1,655)
Related deferred tax liabilities 913 915 915 920 910 855 790 728 
Tangible shareholders’ equity $200,608 $205,191 $204,312 $203,870 $200,806 $197,251 $196,515 $194,656 
Preferred stock (24,364) (23,441) (23,684) (24,399) (24,180) (23,427) (23,427) (23,456)
Tangible common shareholders’ equity $176,244 $181,750 $180,628 $179,471 $176,626 $173,824 $173,088 $171,200 
Reconciliation of period-end shareholders’
equity to period-end tangible shareholders’
equity and period-end tangible common
shareholders’ equity         
Shareholders’ equity $270,066 $272,464 $277,119 $274,000 $272,924 $268,850 $265,637 $264,918 
Goodwill (69,022) (69,023) (69,023) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951)
Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (2,153) (2,172) (2,192) (2,134) (2,151) (2,185) (1,630) (1,646)
Related deferred tax liabilities 929 913 915 915 920 910 789 790 
Tangible shareholders’ equity $199,820 $202,182 $206,819 $203,830 $202,742 $198,624 $195,845 $195,111 
Preferred stock (24,708) (23,441) (23,441) (24,319) (24,510) (23,427) (23,427) (23,427)
Tangible common shareholders’ equity $175,112 $178,741 $183,378 $179,511 $178,232 $175,197 $172,418 $171,684 
Reconciliation of period-end assets to
period-end tangible assets         
Assets $3,169,495 $3,085,446 $3,029,894 $2,969,992 $2,819,627 $2,738,452 $2,741,688 $2,619,954 
Goodwill (69,022) (69,023) (69,023) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951)
Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (2,153) (2,172) (2,192) (2,134) (2,151) (2,185) (1,630) (1,646)
Related deferred tax liabilities 929 913 915 915 920 910 789 790 
Tangible assets $3,099,249 $3,015,164 $2,959,594 $2,899,822 $2,749,445 $2,668,226 $2,671,896 $2,550,147 
Presents reconciliations of non-GAA P financial measures to GAAP  financial measures. For more information on non-GAAP  financial measure s and ratios we use in assessing the results of the
Corporation, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 31.(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
85 Bank of America
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
See Market Risk Management on page 75 in the MD&A  and the sections referenced therein for Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures about Market Risk.
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
Table of Contents
Page
Consolidated Statement of Income 90
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 90
Consolidated Balance Sheet 91
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders’  Equity 92
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 93
Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles 94
Note 2 – Net Interest Income and Noninterest Income 103
Note 3 – Derivatives 104
Note 4 – Securities 111
Note 5 – Outstanding Loans and Leases and Allowance for Credit Losses 114
Note 6 – Securitizations and Other V ariable Interest Entities 125
Note 7 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets 129
Note 8 – Leases
130
Note 9 – Deposits 131
Note 10 – Securities Financing Agreements, Short-term Borrowings
and Restricted Cash 131
Note 11 – Long-term Debt 133
Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies 134
Note 13 – Shareholders’  Equity 138
Note 14 – Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 141
Note 15 – Earnings Per Common Share 141
Note 16 – Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions 142
Note 17 – Employee Benefit Plans 143
Note 18 – Stock-based Compensation Plans 148
Note 19 – Income Taxes 148
Note 20 – Fair V alue Measurements 150
Note 21 – Fair V alue Option 159
Note 22 – Fair V alue of Financial Instruments 161
Note 23 – Business Segment Information 162
Note 24 – Parent Company Information 165
Note 25 – Performance by Geographical Area 167
Glossary 168
Acronyms 170
Bank of America 86
Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
The management of Bank of America Corporation is responsible
for establish ing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting.
The Corporation’ s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
The Corporation’ s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and
fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
Corporation; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America, and that receipts and
expenditures of the Corporation are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the Corporation; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the Corporation’ s assets that could have a material
effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.Management assessed the effectiveness of the Corporation’ s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021
based on the framew ork set forth by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizatio ns of the Treadway Commission in
Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) . Based on that
assessment, manageme nt concluded that, as of December 31,
2021, the Corporation’ s internal control over financial reporting is
effective.
The Corporation’ s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2021 has been audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers , LLP, an indepen dent register ed public
accounting firm, as stated in their accompanying report which
expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the
Corporation’ s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2021.
Brian T . Moynihan
Chair , Chief Executive Of ficer and President
Alastair M. Borthwick
Chief Financial Of ficer
87 Bank of America
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Bank of America Corporation
Opinions on the Financial Statements and
Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets
of Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries (the
“Corporation”) as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the
related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive
income, changes in shareholders’  equity and cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended Dece mber 31, 2021,
including the related notes (collectively referred to as the
“consolidated financial statements”). We also have audited the
Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal
Control - Integrated Framework  (2013) issued by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO).
In our opinion, the cons olidated financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respec ts, the financial
position of the Corporation as of December 31, 2021 and 2020,
and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2021 in conformity
with accoun ting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America. Also in our opinion, the Corporation
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria
established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework  (2013)
issued by the COSO.
Change in Accounting Principle
As discussed in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements,
the Corporation changed the manner in which  it accounts for
credit losses on certain financial instruments in 2020.
Basis for Opinions
The Corpo ration’ s management is responsible for these
consolidated financial statements, for main taining effective
internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express
opinions on the Corporation’ s consolidated financial statements
and on the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting
based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered
with the Public Compa ny Accounting Oversight Board (United
States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with
respect to the Corporat ion in accordance with the U.S. federal
securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the
Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit s in accordance with the standards of
the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
consolidated financial statements are free of material
misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether
effective internal control over financial reporting  was maintained
in all material respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial
statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of
material misstatement of the consolidated finan cial statements,
whether due to error or fraud, and performing  procedures that
respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on
a test basis, evidenceregarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated
financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of
the consolidated financial statements. Our audit of internal
control over financia l reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control base d on the assessed risk. Our audits also included
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in
the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinions.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over
Financial Reporting
A company’ s internal control over financial repor ting is a process
designed to provide reasonable assurance  regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordanc e with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’ s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i)
pertain to the maintenan ce of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of
the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonab le assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
company are being made only in accordance with authorizations
of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’ s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters
arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial
statements that were communicated or required to be
communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relate to
accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated
financial statements and (ii) involved our especially challenging,
subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical
audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the
consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are
not, by communicating the critical audit matters below , providing
separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts
or disclosures to which they relate.
Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses - Commercial and
Consumer Card Loans
As described in Notes 1 and 5 to the consolidated financial
statements, the allowance for loan and lease losses represents
management’ s estimate of the expected credit losses in the
Corporation’ s loan and lease portfolio, excluding loans and
unfunded lending commitments accounted for under the fair
Bank of America 88
value option . As of December 31, 2021, the allowance for loan
and lease losses was $12.4 billion on total loans and leases of
$971.3 billion, which excludes loans accounted for under the fair
value option. For commercial and consumer card loans, the
expected credit loss is typically estimated using quantitative
methods that consider a variety of factors such as historical loss
experience, the current credit quality of the portfo lio as well as an
economic outlook over the life of the loan. In its loss forecasting
framework, the Corporation incorporates forward looking
information through the use of macroeconomic scenarios applied
over the forecasted life of the assets. These macroeconomic
scenarios include variables that have historically been key drivers
of increases and decreases in credit losses. These variables
include, but are not limited to, unemployment rates, real estate
prices, gross domestic product levels and corporate bond
spreads. The scenarios that are chosen and the weighting given
to each scenario depen d on a variety of factors including recent
economic events, leading economic indicators, views of internal
as well as third-party economists and industry trends. Also
included in the allowance for loan and lease losses are
qualitative reserves to cover losses that are expected but, in the
Corporation's assessme nt, may not be adequately reflected in
the quantitative methods or the economic assu mptions. Factors
that the Corporation considers include changes in lending
policies and procedures, business conditions, the nature and size
of the portfolio, portfolio concentrations, the volume and severity
of past due loans and nonaccrual loans, the effect of external
factors such as competition, and legal and regulatory
requirements, among others. Further , the Corporation considers
the inherent uncertainty in quantitative models that are built on
historical data.
The principal considerations for our determination that
performing procedures relating to the allowance for loan and
lease losses for the commercial and consumer card portfolios is
a critical audit matter are (i) the significan t judgment and
estimation by management in developing lifetime economic
forecast scenarios, related weightings to each scenario and
certain quali tative reserves, which in turn led to a high degree of
auditor judgment, subjectivity and effort in perfor ming procedures
and in evaluating audit evidence obtained, and (ii) the audit effort
involved professionals with specialized skill and knowledge.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and
evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall
opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These
procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls relating
to the allowance for loan and lease losses, including controls
over the evaluation and approval of models, forecast scenarios
and related  weighting s, and qualitative reserves. These
procedures also included, among others, testing management’ s
process for estimating the allowance for loan and lease losses,
including (i) evaluating the appropriateness of the loss forecast
models and methodology , (ii) evaluating the reasonableness of
certain macroeconomic variables, (iii) evaluating the
reasonableness of management’ s developmen t, selection and
weighting of lifetime economic forecast scenarios used in the loss
forecast models, (iv) testing the completeness and accuracy of
data used in the estimate, and (v) evaluating the reasonableness
of certain qualitative reserves made to the model output results to
determine the overall allowance for loanand lease losses. The procedures also included the involvement
of professionals with specialized skill and knowledge to assist in
evaluating the appropriateness of certain loss forecast models,
the reasonableness of economic forecast scena rios and related
weightings and the reasonableness of certain qualitative
reserves.
Valuation of Certain Level 3 Financial Instruments
As described in Notes 1 and 20 to the consolidated financial
statements, the Corporation carries certain financial instruments
at fair value, which includes $10.7 billion of assets and $6.9
billion of liabilities classi fied as Level 3 fair value measurements
that are valued on a recurring basis and $2.3 billion of assets
classified as Level 3 fair value measurements that are valued on
a nonrecurring basis, for which the determination of fair value
requires significant management judgment or estimation. The
Corporation determines the fair value of Level 3 financial
instruments using pricing models, discoun ted cash flow
methodologies, or similar techniques that require inputs that are
both unobservable and are significant to the overall fair value
measurement. Unobservable inputs, such as volatility or price,
may be determined using quantitative-based extrapolations or
other intern al methodologies which incorporate management
estimates and available market information.
The principal considerations for our determination that
performing procedures relating to the valuation of certain Level 3
financial instruments is a critical audit matter are the significant
judgment and estimation used by management to determine the
fair value of these financial instruments, which  in turn led to a
high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity and effort in
performing procedures  and in evaluating audit evidence
obtained, including the involvement of professionals with
specialized skill and knowledge.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and
evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall
opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These
procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls relating
to the valuation of financial instruments, including controls related
to valuation models, significant unobservable inputs, and data.
These procedures also included, among others, the involvement
of professionals  with specialized skill and knowledge to assist in
developing an independent estimate of fair value for a sample of
these certa in financi al instruments and comparison of
management’ s estimate to the independently developed estimate
of fair value. Developing the independent estimate involved
testing the completeness and accuracy of data provided by
management and evaluating the reasonableness of
management’ s significant unobservable inputs.
Charlotte, North Carolina
February 22, 2022
We have served as the Corporation’ s auditor since 1958.
89 Bank of America
Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statement of Income
(In millions, except per share information) 2021 2020 2019
Net interest income  
Interest income $ 47,672 $ 51,585 $ 71,236 
Interest expense 4,738 8,225 22,345 
Net interest income 42,934 43,360 48,891 
Noninterest income  
Fees and commissions 39,299 34,551 33,015 
Market making and similar activities 8,691 8,355 9,034 
Other income (1,811) (738) 304 
Total noninterest income 46,179 42,168 42,353 
Total revenue, net of interest expense 89,113 85,528 91,244 
Provision for credit losses (4,594) 11,320 3,590 
Noninterest expense
Compensation and benefits 36,140 32,725 31,977 
Occupancy and equipment 7,138 7,141 6,588 
Information processing and communications 5,769 5,222 4,646 
Product delivery and transaction related 3,881 3,433 2,762 
Marketing 1,939 1,701 1,934 
Professional fees 1,775 1,694 1,597 
Other general operating 3,089 3,297 5,396 
Total noninterest expense 59,731 55,213 54,900 
Income before income taxes 33,976 18,995 32,754 
Income tax expense 1,998 1,101 5,324 
Net income $ 31,978 $ 17,894 $ 27,430 
Preferred stock dividends 1,421 1,421 1,432 
Net income applicable to common shareholders $ 30,557 $ 16,473 $ 25,998 
Per common share information  
Earnings $ 3.60 $ 1.88 $ 2.77 
Diluted earnings 3.57 1.87 2.75 
Average common shares issued and outstanding 8,493.3 8,753.2 9,390.5 
Average diluted common shares issued and outstanding 8,558.4 8,796.9 9,442.9 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Net income $ 31,978 $ 17,894 $ 27,430 
Other comprehensive income (loss), net-of-tax:
Net change in debt securities (2,077) 4,799 5,875 
Net change in debit valuation adjustments 356 (498) (963)
Net change in derivatives (2,306) 826 616 
Employee benefit plan adjustments 624 (98) 136 
Net change in foreign currency translation adjustments (45) (52) (86)
Other comprehensive income (loss) (3,448) 4,977 5,578 
Comprehensive income $ 28,530 $ 22,871 $ 33,008 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Bank of America 90
Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Balance Sheet
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Assets
Cash and due from banks $ 29,222 $ 36,430 
Interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve, non-U.S. central banks and other banks 318,999 344,033 
Cash and cash equivalents 348,221 380,463 
Time deposits placed and other short-term investments 7,144 6,546 
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell
   (includes $150,665 and $108,856 measured at fair value) 250,720 304,058 
Trading account assets (includes $103,434 and $91,510 pledged as collateral) 247,080 198,854 
Derivative assets 35,344 47,179 
Debt securities:  
Carried at fair value 308,073 246,601 
Held-to-maturity, at cost (fair value – $665,890 and $448,180) 674,554 438,249 
Total debt securities 982,627 684,850 
Loans and leases (includes $7,819 and $6,681 measured at fair value) 979,124 927,861 
Allowance for loan and lease losses (12,387) (18,802)
Loans and leases, net of allowance 966,737 909,059 
Premises and equipment, net 10,833 11,000 
Goodwill 69,022 68,951 
Loans held-for-sale (includes $4,455 and $1,585 measured at fair value) 15,635 9,243 
Customer and other receivables 72,263 64,221 
Other assets (includes $12,144 and $15,718 measured at fair value) 163,869 135,203 
Total assets $ 3,169,495 $ 2,819,627 
Liabilities   
Deposits in U.S. offices:   
Noninterest-bearing $ 784,189 $ 650,674 
Interest-bearing (includes $408 and $481 measured at fair value) 1,165,914 1,038,341 
Deposits in non-U.S. offices:
Noninterest-bearing 27,457 17,698 
Interest-bearing 86,886 88,767 
Total deposits 2,064,446 1,795,480 
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase
   (includes $139,641 and $135,391 measured at fair value) 192,329 170,323 
Trading account liabilities 100,690 71,320 
Derivative liabilities 37,675 45,526 
Short-term borrowings (includes $4,279 and $5,874 measured at fair value) 23,753 19,321 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities (includes $11,489 and $16,311 measured at fair value
   and $1,456 and $1,878 of reserve for unfunded lending commitments) 200,419 181,799 
Long-term debt (includes $29,708 and $32,200 measured at fair value) 280,117 262,934 
Total liabilities 2,899,429 2,546,703 
Commitments and contingencies (Note 6 – Securitizations and Other Variable Interest Entities
   and Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies)
Shareholders’ equity  
Preferred stock, $0.01 par value; authorized – 100,000,000 shares; issued and outstanding – 3,939,686 and 3,931,440 shares 24,708 24,510 
Common stock and additional paid-in capital, $0.01  par value; authorized – 12,800,000,000 shares;
   issued and outstanding – 8,077,831,463 and 8,650,814,105 shares 62,398 85,982 
Retained earnings 188,064 164,088 
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (5,104) (1,656)
Total shareholders’ equity 270,066 272,924 
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $ 3,169,495 $ 2,819,627 
Assets of consolidated variable interest entities included in total assets above (isolated to settle the liabilities of the variable interest entities)
Trading account assets $ 5,004  $ 5,225  
Loans and leases 17,135  23,636  
Allowance for loan and lease losses (958) (1,693 )
Loans and leases, net of allowance 16,177  21,943  
All other assets 189 1,387  
Total assets of consolidated variable interest entities $ 21,370  $ 28,555  
Liabilities of consolidated variable interest entities included in total liabilities above   
Short-term borrowings (includes $51 and $ 22 of non-recourse short-term borrowings) $ 247 $ 454 
Long-term debt (includes $3,587  and $ 7,053  of non-recourse debt) 3,587  7,053  
All other liabilities (includes $7 and $ 16 of non-recourse liabilities) 7 16 
Total liabilities of consolidated variable interest entities $ 3,841  $ 7,523  
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
91 Bank of America
Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders’  Equity
Preferred
StockCommon Stock and
Additional Paid-in CapitalRetained
EarningsAccumulated
Other
Comprehensive
Income (Loss)Total
Shareholders’
Equity (In millions) Shares Amount
Balance, December 31, 2018 $ 22,326 9,669.3 $ 118,896 $ 136,314 $ (12,211)$ 265,325 
Cumulative adjustment for adoption of lease accounting
   standard 165 165 
Net income 27,430 27,430 
Net change in debt securities 5,875 5,875 
Net change in debit valuation adjustments (963) (963)
Net change in derivatives 616 616 
Employee benefit plan adjustments 136 136 
Net change in foreign currency translation adjustments (86) (86)
Dividends declared:
Common (6,146) (6,146)
Preferred (1,432) (1,432)
Issuance of preferred stock 3,643 3,643 
Redemption of preferred stock (2,568) (2,568)
Common stock issued under employee plans, net, and other 123.3 971 (12) 959 
Common stock repurchased (956.5) (28,144) (28,144)
Balance, December 31, 2019 $ 23,401 8,836.1 $ 91,723 $ 156,319 $ (6,633)$ 264,810 
Cumulative adjustment for adoption of credit loss accounting
standard (2,406) (2,406)
Net income 17,894 17,894 
Net change in debt securities 4,799 4,799 
Net change in debit valuation adjustments (498) (498)
Net change in derivatives 826 826 
Employee benefit plan adjustments (98) (98)
Net change in foreign currency translation adjustments (52) (52)
Dividends declared:
Common (6,289) (6,289)
Preferred (1,421) (1,421)
Issuance of preferred stock 2,181 2,181 
Redemption of preferred stock (1,072) (1,072)
Common stock issued under employee plans, net, and other 41.7 1,284 (9) 1,275 
Common stock repurchased (227.0) (7,025) (7,025)
Balance, December 31, 2020 $ 24,510 8,650.8 $ 85,982 $ 164,088 $ (1,656)$ 272,924 
Net income 31,978 31,978 
Net change in debt securities (2,077) (2,077)
Net change in debit valuation adjustments 356 356 
Net change in derivatives (2,306) (2,306)
Employee benefit plan adjustments 624 624 
Net change in foreign currency translation adjustments (45) (45)
Dividends declared:
Common (6,575) (6,575)
Preferred (1,421) (1,421)
Issuance of preferred stock 2,169 2,169 
Redemption of preferred stock (1,971) (1,971)
Common stock issued under employee plans, net, and other 42.3 1,542 (6) 1,536 
Common stock repurchased (615.3) (25,126) (25,126)
Balance, December 31, 2021 $ 24,708 8,077.8 $ 62,398 $ 188,064 $ (5,104)$ 270,066 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Bank of America 92
Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Operating activities    
Net income $ 31,978 $ 17,894 $ 27,430 
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:    
Provision for credit losses (4,594) 11,320 3,590 
Gains on sales of debt securities (22) (411) (217)
Depreciation and amortization 1,898 1,843 1,729 
Net amortization of premium/discount on debt securities 5,837 4,101 2,066 
Deferred income taxes (838) (1,737) 2,435 
Stock-based compensation 2,768 2,031 1,974 
Impairment of equity method investment — — 2,072 
Loans held-for-sale:
Originations and purchases (43,635) (19,657) (28,874)
Proceeds from sales and paydowns of loans originally classified as held for sale and instruments
from related securitization activities 34,684 19,049 30,191 
Net change in:
Trading and derivative assets/liabilities (22,104) 16,942 7,920 
Other assets (34,455) (12,883) (11,113)
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 16,639 (4,385) 16,363 
Other operating activities, net 4,651 3,886 6,211 
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities (7,193) 37,993 61,777 
Investing activities    
Net change in:
Time deposits placed and other short-term investments (598) 561 387 
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell 53,338 (29,461) (13,466)
Debt securities carried at fair value:
Proceeds from sales 6,893 77,524 52,006 
Proceeds from paydowns and maturities 159,616 91,084 79,114 
Purchases (238,398) (194,877) (152,782)
Held-to-maturity debt securities:
Proceeds from paydowns and maturities 124,880 93,835 34,770 
Purchases (362,736) (257,535) (37,115)
Loans and leases:
Proceeds from sales of loans originally classified as held for investment and instruments
from related securitization activities 10,396 13,351 12,201 
Purchases (5,164) (5,229) (5,963)
Other changes in loans and leases, net (58,039) 36,571 (46,808)
Other investing activities, net (3,479) (3,489) (2,974)
Net cash used in investing activities (313,291) (177,665) (80,630)
Financing activities    
Net change in:
Deposits 268,966 360,677 53,327 
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase 22,006 5,214 (21,879)
Short-term borrowings 4,432 (4,893) 4,004 
Long-term debt:
Proceeds from issuance 76,675 57,013 52,420 
Retirement (46,826) (47,948) (50,794)
Preferred stock:
Proceeds from issuance 2,169 2,181 3,643 
Redemption (1,971) (1,072) (2,568)
Common stock repurchased (25,126) (7,025) (28,144)
Cash dividends paid (8,055) (7,727) (5,934)
Other financing activities, net (620) (601) (698)
Net cash provided by financing activities 291,650 355,819 3,377 
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (3,408) 2,756 (368)
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (32,242) 218,903 (15,844)
Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 380,463 161,560 177,404 
Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 $ 348,221 $ 380,463 $ 161,560 
Supplemental cash flow disclosures
Interest paid $ 4,506 $ 8,662 $ 22,196 
Income taxes paid, net 2,760 2,894 4,359 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
93 Bank of America
Bank of America Corporation and
Subsidiaries
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
NOTE 1 Summary of Significant Accounting
Principles
Bank of America Corpo ration, a bank holding company and a
financial holding company , provides a diverse range of financial
services and products throughout the U.S. and in certain
international markets. The term “the Corporation” as used herein
may refer to Bank of America Corporation, individually , Bank of
America Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of Bank of
America Corporation’ s subsidiaries or af filiates.
Principles of Consolidation and Basis of
Presentation
The Consolidated Financial Statements include  the accounts of
the Corporation and its majority-owned subsidiaries and those
variable interest entities (VIEs) where the Corporation is the
primary beneficiary . Intercompany accounts and transactions
have been eliminated. Results of operatio ns of acquired
companies are included from the dates of acquisition, and for
VIEs, from the dates that the Corporation became the primary
beneficiary . Assets held in an agency or fiduciary  capacity are not
included in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The
Corporation accounts for investments in companies for which it
owns a voting interest and for which it has the ability to exercise
significant influence over operating and financing decisions using
the equity method of accounting. These investments, which
include the Corporation ’s interests in affordable housing and
renewable energy partnerships, are recorded in other assets.
Equity method investments are subject to impairment testing, and
the Corporation’ s proportionate share of income or loss is
included in other income.
The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally  accepted in the
United States of America requires manage ment to make
estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and
disclosures. Actual results could materially differ from those
estimates and assumpti ons. Certain prior-period amounts have
been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
Significant Accounting Principles
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivale nts include cash on hand, cash items in
the process of collection, cash segregated under federal and
other brokerage regulations, and amounts due from
correspondent banks, the Federal Reserve Bank and certain
non-U.S. central banks. Certain cash balances are restricted as
to withdrawal or usage by legally binding contractual agreements
or regulatory requirements.
Securities Financing Agreements
Securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell
and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase
(securities financing agreements) are treated as collateralized
financing transactions except in instances where the transaction
is required to be accounted for as individual sale and purchase
transactions. Generally , these agreements are recorded at
acquisition or sale price plus accrued interest. In instances where
the interest is negative , the Corporation’ s policy is to present
negative interest on financial assets as interest income and
negative interest on financial liabilities as interest expense. For
securities financing agreements that are accounted for under the
fair value option, the changes in the fair value of these securities
financing agreements are recorded in marketmaking and similar activities in the Consolidated Statement of
Income.
The Corporation’ s policy is to monitor the market value of the
principal amount loaned under resale agreements and obtain
collateral from or return collateral pledged to counterparties when
appropriate. Securities financing agreements do not create
material credit risk due to these collateral provisions; therefore,
an allowance for loan losses is not necessary .
In transactions where the Corporation acts as the lender in a
securities lending agreement and receives securities that can be
pledged or sold as collateral, it recognizes an asset on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value, representing the
securities received, and a liability , representing the obligation to
return those securities.
Collateral
The Corpora tion accepts securities and loans as collateral that it
is permitted by contract or practice to sell or repledge. At
December 31, 2021 and 2020, the fair value of this collateral was
$854.8  billion and $812.4  billion, of which $782.7  billion and
$758.5  billion were sold or repledged. The primary source of this
collateral is securities borrowed or purchased under agreements
to resell.
The Corporation also pledges company-owned securities and
loans as collateral in transactions that include repurchase
agreements, securities loaned, public and trust deposits, U.S.
Treasury tax and loan notes, and short-term borrowings. This
collateral, which in some  cases can be sold or repledged by the
counterparties to the transactions, is parenthetically disclosed on
the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
In certain cases, the Corporation has transferred assets to
consolidated VIEs where those restricted assets serve as
collateral for the interes ts issued by the VIEs. These assets are
included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in Assets of
Consolidated VIEs.
In addition, the Corporation obtains collateral in connection
with its derivative contracts. Required collat eral levels vary
depending on the credit risk rating and the type of counterparty .
Generally , the Corporation accepts collateral in the form of cash,
U.S. Treasury securities and other marketable securities. Based
on provision s contained in master netting agreements, the
Corporation nets cash collateral received against derivative
assets. The Corporation also pledges collateral on its own
derivative positions which can be applied against derivative
liabilities.
Trading Instruments
Financial instruments utilized in trading activities are carried at
fair value. Fair value is generally based on quoted market prices
for the same or similar assets and liabilities. If these market
prices are not available, fair values are estim ated based on
dealer quotes, pricing models, discounted cash flow
methodologies, or similar techniques where the determination of
fair value may require significant manageme nt judgment or
estimation. Realized gains and losses are recorded on a trade-
date basis. Realized and unrealized gains and losses are
recognized in market making and similar activities.
Derivatives and Hedging Activities
Derivatives are entered into on behalf of customers, for trading or
to support risk management activities. Derivatives used in risk
management activities include derivatives that are both
designated in qualifying accounting hedge relationships and
derivatives used to hedge market risks in relationships that are
Bank of America 94
not designated in qualifying accounting hedge relationships
(referred to as other risk management activities). The
Corporation manages interest rate and foreign currency
exchange rate sensitivity predominantly through the use of
derivatives. Derivatives utilized by the Corporation include
swaps, futures and forward settlement contra cts, and option
contracts.
All derivatives are recorded on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet at fair value, takin g into consideration the effects of legally
enforceable master netting agreements that allow the
Corporation to settle positive and negative positions and offset
cash collate ral held with the same counterparty on a net basis.
For exchange-traded contracts, fair value is based on quoted
market price s in active or inactive markets or is derived from
observable market-based pricing parameters, similar to those
applied to over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives. For non-exchange
traded contracts, fair value is based on deale r quotes, pricing
models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar
techniques for which the determination of fair value may require
significant management judgment or estimation.
Valuations of derivative assets and liabilities reflect the value
of the instrument including counterparty credit risk. These values
also take into account the Corporation’ s own credit standing.
Trading Derivatives and Other Risk Management
Activities
Derivatives held for trading purposes are included in derivative
assets or derivative liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet
with changes in fair value included in market making and similar
activities.
Derivatives used for other risk management activities are
included in derivative assets or derivative liabilities. Derivatives
used in other risk management activities have not been
designated in qualifying accounting hedge relationships because
they did not qualify or the risk that is being mitigated pertains to
an item that is reported at fair value through earnings so that the
effect of measuring the derivative instrument and the asset or
liability to which the risk exposure pertains will offset in the
Consolidated Statement of Income to the extent effective. The
changes in the fair value of derivatives that serve to mitigate
certain risks associated with mortgage servicing rights (MSRs),
interest rate lock comm itments (IRLCs) and first-lien mortgage
loans held-for-sale (LHFS) that are originated by the Corporation
are recorded in other income. Changes in the fair value of
derivatives that serve to mitigate interest rate risk and foreign
currency risk are include d in market making and similar activities.
Credit derivatives are also used by the Corpor ation to mitigate
the risk asso ciated with various credit exposures. The changes in
the fair value of these derivatives are included in market making
and similar activities and other income.
Derivatives Used For Hedge Accounting Purposes
(Accounting Hedges)
For accounting hedges, the Corporation formally documents at
inception all relationships between hedging instruments and
hedged items, as well as the risk management objectives and
strategies for undertaking various accounting hedges.
Additionally , the Corporation primarily uses regre ssion analysis at
the inception of a hedge and for each reporting period thereafter
to assess whether the derivative used in an accounting hedge
transaction is expected to be and has been highly effective in
offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of a hedged
item or forecasted transaction. The Corporation discontinues
hedge accou nting when it is determined that a derivative is not
expected to be or hasceased to be highly ef fective as a hedge, and then reflects
changes in fair value of the derivative in earnings after
termination of the hedge relationship.
Fair value hedges are used to protect against changes in the
fair value of the Corpo ration’ s assets and liabilities that are
attributable to interest rate or foreign exchange volatility .
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designa ted as fair value
hedges are recorded in earnings, together and in the same
income statement line item with changes in the fair value of the
related hedged item. If a derivative instrument in a fair value
hedge is terminated or the hedge designation removed, the
previous adjustments to the carrying value of the hedged asset or
liability are subsequently accounted for in the same manner as
other compo nents of the carrying value of that asset or liability .
For interest- earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, such
adjustments are amortized to earnings over the remaining life of
the respective asset or liability .
Cash flow hedges are used primarily to minimize the
variability in cash flows  of assets and liabilities or forecasted
transactions caused by interest rate or foreign exchange rate
fluctuations. The Corporation also uses cash flow hedges to
hedge the price risk associated with deferred compensation.
Changes in the fair value  of derivatives used in cash flow hedges
are recorded  in accumulated other comprehens ive income (OCI)
and are reclassified into the line item in the income statement in
which the hedged item is recorded in the same period the
hedged item affects earnings. Components of a derivative that
are excluded in assessing hedge effectiveness are recorded in
the same income statement line item as the hedged item.
Net investment hedges are used to manage the foreign
exchange rate sensitivity arising from a net investment in a
foreign operation. Changes in the spot prices of derivatives that
are designated as net investment hedges of foreign operations
are recorded as a component of accumulated OCI. The
remaining components of these derivatives are excluded in
assessing hedge effectiveness and are recorded in market
making and similar activities.
Securities
Debt securities are reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheet
at their trade date. Their classification is dependent on the
purpose for which the securities were acquired. Debt securities
purchased for use in the Corporation’ s trading activities are
reported in trading account assets at fair value with unrealized
gains and losses included in market making and similar activities.
Substantially all other debt securities purchased  are used in the
Corporation’ s asset and liability management (ALM) activities
and are reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as either
debt securiti es carried at fair value or as held-to-maturity (HTM)
debt securit ies. Debt securities carried at fair value are either
available-for-sale (AFS)  securities with unrea lized gains and
losses net-of-tax included in accumulated OCI or carried at fair
value with unrealized gains and losses reported in market making
and similar activities. HTM debt securities are debt securities that
management has the intent and ability to hold to maturity and are
reported at amortized cost.
The Corporation evaluates each AFS security where the value
has declined below amortized cost. If the Corporation intends to
sell or believ es it is more likely than not that it will be required to
sell the debt security , it is written down to fair value through
earnings. For AFS debt securities the Corporation intends to
hold, the Corporation evaluates the debt securities for expected
credit losses (ECL), except for debt securities that are
95 Bank of America
guaranteed by the U.S. Treasury , U.S. government agencies or
sovereign entities of high credit quality where the Corporation
applies a zero credit loss assumption. For the remaining AFS
debt securities, the Corp oration considers qualitative parameters
such as internal and external credit ratings and the value of
underlying collateral. If an AFS debt security fails any of the
qualitative parameters, a discounted cash flow analysis is used
by the Corporation to determine if a portion of the unrealized loss
is a result of an expected credit loss. The Corporation will then
recognize either credit loss expense or a rever sal of credit loss
expense in other income  for the amount necessary to adjust the
debt securities valuation allowance to its current estimate of
excepted credit losses. Cash flows expected to be collected are
estimated using all relevant information available such as
remaining payment terms, prepayment speeds, the financial
condition of the issuer , expected defaults and the value of the
underlying collateral. If any of the decline in fair value is related to
market factors, that amount is recognized in accumulated OCI. In
certain instances, the credit loss may exceed the total decline in
fair value, in which case , the allowance recorded  is limited to the
difference between the amortized cost and the fair value of the
asset.
The Corporation separately evaluates its HTM debt securities
for any credit losses, of which substantially all qualify for the zero
loss assump tion. For the remaining securities,  the Corporation
performs a discounted cash flow analysis to estimate any credit
losses which are then recognized as part of the allowance for
credit losses.
Interest on debt securitie s, including amortization of premiums
and accretion of discounts, is included in interest income.
Premiums and discounts are amortized or accreted to interest
income at a constant effective yield over the contractual lives of
the securitie s. Realized gains and losses from the sales of debt
securities are determined using the specific identification method.
Equity securities with readily determinable fair values that are
not held for trading purposes are carried at fair value with
unrealized gains and losses included in other income. Equity
securities that do not have readily determinable fair values are
recorded at cost less impairment, if any, plus or minus qualifying
observable price changes. These securities are reported in other
assets.
Loans and Leases
Loans, with the exceptio n of loans accounted for under the fair
value option, are measu red at historical cost and reported at their
outstanding principal balances net of any unearned income,
charge-of fs, unamortized  deferred fees and costs on originated
loans, and for purchased loans, net of any unamortized
premiums or discounts. Loan origination fees and certain direct
origination costs are deferred and recognized as adjustments to
interest income over the lives of the related loans. Unearned
income, discounts and premiums are amortized to interest
income using a level yield methodology . The Corporation elects
to account for certain consumer and commercial loans under the
fair value option with interest reported in interest income and
changes in fair value reported in market making and similar
activities or other income.
Under applicable accounting guidance, for reporting
purposes, the loan and lease portfolio is categorized by portfolio
segment and, within each portfolio segment, by class of financing
receivables. A portfolio segment is defined as the level at which
an entity develops and documents a systematic methodology to
determine the allowance for credit losses, and a class of
financing receivables is defined as the level ofdisaggregation of portfolio segments based on the initial
measurement attribute, risk characteristics and methods for
assessing risk. The Corporation’ s three  portfolio segments are
Consumer Real Estate, Credit Card and Other Consumer , and
Commercial. The classes within the Consumer Real Estate
portfolio segment are residential mortgage and home equity . The
classes within the Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio
segment are credit card, direct/indirect consumer and other
consumer . The classes within the Commercial portfolio segment
are U.S. commercial, non-U.S. commercial, commercial real
estate, commercial lease financing and U.S. small business
commercial.
Leases
The Corporation provides equipment financing to its customers
through a variety of lessor arrangements. Direct financing leases
and sales-ty pe leases are carried at the aggregate of lease
payments receivable plus the estimated residual value of the
leased property less unearned income, which is accreted to
interest income over the lease terms using methods that
approximate the interest method. Operating lease income is
recognized on a straig ht-line basis. The Corporation's lease
arrangements generally do not contain non-lease components.
Allowance for Credit Losses
The allowance for credit losses includes both the allowance for
loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending
commitments and represents management’ s estimate of the ECL
in the Corporation’ s loan and lease portfolio, excluding loans and
unfunded lending commitments accounted for under the fair
value option. The ECL on funded consumer and commercial
loans and leases is referred to as the allowance for loan and
lease losses  and is reported separately as a contra-asset to
loans and leases on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The ECL
for unfunded lending commitments, including home equity lines
of credit (HELOCs), standby letters of credit (SBLCs) and binding
unfunded loan commitments is reported on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet in accrued expenses and other liabilities. The
provision for credit losses related to the loan and lease portfolio
and unfunded lending commitments is reported in the
Consolidated Statement of Income at the amount necessary to
adjust the allowance for credit losses to the current estimate of
ECL.
For loans and leases, the ECL is typically estimated using
quantitative methods that consider a variety of factors such as
historical loss experience, the current credit quality of the
portfolio as well as an economic outlook over the life of the loan.
The life of the loan for closed-ended products is based on the
contractual maturity of the loan adjusted for any expected
prepayments. The contractual maturity includes any extension
options that are at the sole discretion of the borrower . For open-
ended products (e.g., lines of credit), the ECL is determined
based on the maximum repayment term associated with future
draws from credit lines unless those lines of credit are
unconditionally cancellable (e.g., credit cards) in which case the
Corporation does not record any allowance.
In its loss forecasting framework, the Corporation
incorporates forward-lo oking information through the use of
macroeconomic scenarios applied over the forecasted life of the
assets. These macroeconomic scenarios include variables that
have historically been key drivers of increases and decreases in
credit losses. These variables include, but are not limited to,
unemployment rates, real estate prices, gross domestic product
levels and corporate bond spreads. As any one economic outlook
is inherently uncertain, the Corporation leverages
Bank of America 96
multiple scenarios. The scenarios that are chosen each quarter
and the weighting given  to each scenario depend on a variety of
factors including recent economic events, leading economic
indicators, views of internal and third-party economists and
industry trends.
The estimate of credit losses includes expected recoveries of
amounts previously charged off (i.e., negative allowance). If a
loan has been charged off, the expected cash flows on the loan
are not limited by the current amortized cost balance. Instead,
expected cash flows can be assumed up to the unpaid principal
balance immediately prior to the charge-of f.
The allowan ce for loan and lease losses for troubled debt
restructurings (TDR) is measured based on the present value of
projected future lifetime principal and interest cash flows
discounted at the loan’ s original effective interest rate, or in cases
where forecl osure is probable or the loan is collateral dependent,
at the loan’ s collateral value or its observable market price, if
available. The measurement of ECL for the renegotiated
consumer credit card TDR portfolio is based on the present value
of projected cash flows discounted using the average TDR
portfolio contractual interest rate, excluding promotionally priced
loans, in effect prior to restructuring. Projected cash flows for
TDRs use the same economic outlook as discu ssed above. For
purposes of computing this specific loss component of the
allowance, larger impair ed loans are evaluated individually and
smaller impaired loans are evaluated as a pool.
Also include d in the allowance for loan and lease losses are
qualitative reserves to cover losses that are expected but, in the
Corporation's assessme nt, may not be adequately reflected in
the quantitative methods or the economic assum ptions described
above. For example, factors that the Corpo ration considers
include changes in lending policies and procedures, business
conditions, the nature and size of the portfolio, portfolio
concentrations, the volume and severity of past due loans and
nonaccrual loans, the effect of external factors such as
competition, and legal and regulatory requirements, among
others. Further , the Corporation considers the inherent
uncertainty in quantitative models that are built on historical data.
With the exception of the Corporation's credit card portfolio,
the Corporation does not include reserves for interest receivable
in the measurement of the allowance for credit losses as the
Corporation generally classifies consumer loans as
nonperforming at 90 days past due and reverses interest income
for these loans at that time. For credit card loans , the Corporation
reserves for interest and fees as part of the allowance for loan
and lease losses. Upon charge-of f of a credit card loan, the
Corporation reverses the interest and fee income against the
income statement line item where it was originally recorded.
The Corpora tion has identified the following three  portfolio
segments and measures the allowance for credit losses using the
following methods.
Consumer Real Estate
To estimate ECL for consumer loans secured by residential real
estate, the Corporation estimates the number of loans that will
default over the life of the existing portfolio, after factoring in
estimated prepayments, using quantitative modeling
methodologies. The attributes that are most significant in
estimating the Corporation’ s ECL include refreshed loan-to-value
(LTV) or, in the case of a subordinated lien, refreshed combined
LTV (CL TV), borrower credit score, months since origination andgeography , all of which are further broken down by present
collection status (whether the loan is current, delinquent, in
default, or in bankrupt cy). The estimates are based on the
Corporation’ s historical  experience with the loan portfolio,
adjusted to reflect the economic outlook. The outlook on the
unemployment rate and consumer real estate prices are key
factors that impact the frequency and severity of loss estimates.
The Corpora tion does not reserve for credit losses on the unpaid
principal balance of loans insured by the Federal Housing
Administration (FHA) and long-term standby loans, as these
loans are fully insured. The Corporation records a reserve for
unfunded lending commitments for the ECL associated with the
undrawn portion of the Corporation’ s HELOCs, which can only be
canceled by the Corpora tion if certain criteria are met. The ECL
associated with these unfunded lending commitments is
calculated using the same models and meth odologies noted
above and incorporate utilization assumptions at time of default.
For loans that are more than 180 days past due and
collateral-dependent TDRs, the Corporation bases the allowance
on the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral as of the
reporting date less costs to sell. The fair value of the collateral
securing these loans is generally determined using an automated
valuation model (AVM) that estimates the value of a property by
reference to market data including sales of comparable
properties and price trends specific to the Metropolitan Statistical
Area in which the prope rty being valued is located. In the event
that an AVM value is not available, the Corporation utilizes
publicized indices or if these methods provide less reliable
valuations, the Corporation uses appraisals or broker price
opinions to estimate the fair value of the collater al. While there is
inherent imprecision in these valuations, the Corporation believes
that they are representative of this portfolio in the aggregate.
For loans that are more than 180 days past due and
collateral-dependent TDRs, with the exception of the
Corporation’ s fully insured portfolio, the outstan ding balance of
loans that is in excess of the estimated property value after
adjusting for costs to sell is charged off. If the estimated property
value decreases in periods subsequent to the initial charge-of f,
the Corporation will record an additional charge-of f; however , if
the value increases in periods subsequent to the charge-of f, the
Corporation will adjust the allowance to account for the increase
but not to a level above the cumulative charge-of f amount.
Credit Cards and Other Consumer
Credit cards are revol ving lines of credit without a defined
maturity date. The estimated life of a credit card receivable is
determined by estimating the amount and timing of expected
future payme nts (e.g., borrowers making full payments, minimum
payments or somewhere in between) that it will take for a
receivable balance to pay off. The ECL on the future payments
incorporates the spending behavior of a borrower through time
using key borrower-specific factors and the economic outlook
described above. The Corporation applies all expected payments
in accordance with the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility
and Disclosure Act of 2009 (i.e., paying down the highest interest
rate bucket first). Then forecasted future payments are prioritized
to pay off the oldest balance until it is brought to zero or an
expected charge-of f amount. Unemploymen t rate outlook,
borrower credit score, delinquency status and historical payment
behavior are all key inputs into the credit card receivable loss
forecasting model.
97 Bank of America
Future draws on the credit card lines are excluded from the ECL
as they are unconditionally cancellable.
The ECL for the consu mer vehicle lending portfolio is also
determined using quantitative methods supplemented with
qualitative analysis. The quantitative model estim ates ECL giving
consideration to key borrower and loan characteristics such as
delinquency status, borrower credit score, LTV ratio, underlying
collateral type and collateral value.
Commercial
The ECL on commercial loans is forecasted using models that
estimate credit losses over the loan’ s contra ctual life at an
individual loan level. The models use the contractual terms to
forecast future principal cash flows while also considering
expected prepayments. For open-ended commitments such as
revolving lines of credit, changes in funded balance are captured
by forecastin g a borrower ’s draw and payment behavior over the
remaining life of the commitment. For loans collateralized with
commercial real estate and for which the under lying asset is the
primary source of repayment, the loss forecasting models
consider key loan and customer attributes such as LTV ratio, net
operating income and debt service coverage, and captures
variations in behavior according to property type and region. The
outlook on the unemployment rate, gross domestic product, and
forecasted real estate prices are utilized to determine indicators
such as rent levels and vacancy rates, which impact the ECL
estimate. For all other commercial loans and leases, the loss
forecasting model determines the probabilities of transition to
different credit risk ratings or default at each point over the life of
the asset based on the borrower ’s current credit risk rating,
industry sector , size of the exposure and the geographic market.
The severity of loss is determined based on the type of collateral
securing the exposure, the size of the exposure, the borrower ’s
industry sector , any guarantors and the geographic market.
Assumptions of expected loss are conditioned to the economic
outlook, and the model considers key economic variables such
as unemployment rate, gross domestic product, corporate bond
spreads, real estate and other asset prices and equity market
returns.
In addition to the allow ance for loan and lease losses, the
Corporation also estimates ECL related to unfunded lending
commitments such as letters of credit, financial guarantees,
unfunded bankers acceptances and binding loan commitments,
excluding commitments accounted for under the fair value option.
Reserves are estimated for the unfunded exposure using the
same models and methodologies as the funded exposure and
are reported as reserves for unfunded lending commitments.
Nonperforming Loans and Leases, Charge-offs and
Delinquencies
Nonperforming loans and leases generally include loans and
leases that have been placed on nonaccrual status. Loans
accounted for under the fair value option and LHFS are not
reported as nonperforming. When a nonaccrual loan is deemed
uncollectible, it is charged off against the allowance for credit
losses. If the charged-of f amount is later recovered, the amount
is reversed through the allowance for credi t losses at the
recovery date. Charge-of fs are reported net of recoveries (net
charge-of fs). If recoveries for the period are greater than charge-
offs, net charge-of fs are reported as a negative amount.
In accordance with the Corporation’ s policies, consumer real
estate-secured loans, including residential mortgages and home
equity loans, are generally placed on nonaccrual status and
classified as nonperforming at 90 days past due unlessrepayment of the loan is insured by the FHA or through
individually insured long-term standby agreeme nts with Fannie
Mae (FNMA) or Freddie Mac (FHLMC) (the fully-insured
portfolio). Residential mortgage loans in the fully-insured portfolio
are not placed on nonaccrual status and, therefore, are not
reported as nonperforming. Junior-lien home equity loans are
placed on nonaccrual status and classified as nonperforming
when the underlying first-lien mortgage loan becomes 90 days
past due even if the junior-lien loan is current. The outstanding
balance of real estate- secured loans that is in excess of the
estimated property value less costs to sell is charged off no later
than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days
past due unless the loan is fully insured, or for loans in
bankruptcy , within 60 days of receipt of notification of filing, with
the remaining balance classified as nonperforming.
Consumer loans secured by personal property , credit card
loans and other unsecu red consumer loans are not placed on
nonaccrual status prior to charge-of f and, therefore, are not
reported as nonperforming loans, except for certain secured
consumer loans, including those that have been modified in a
TDR. Personal property-secured loans (including auto loans) are
charged off to collateral value no later than the end of the month
in which the account becomes 120 days past due, or upon
repossession of an auto or, for loans in bankruptcy , within 60
days of receipt of notification of filing. Credit card and other
unsecured customer loans are charged off no later than the end
of the month in which the account becomes 180 days past due,
within 60 days after receipt of notification of death or bankruptcy ,
or upon confirmation of fraud.
Commercial loans and leases, excluding busines s card loans,
that are past due 90 days or more as to principal or interest, or
where reasonable doubt exists as to timely collection, including
loans that are individually identified as being impaired, are
generally placed on nonaccrual status and classified as
nonperforming unless well-secured and in the process of
collection.
Business card loans are charged off in the same manner as
consumer credit card loans. Other commercial loans and leases
are generally charged off when all or a portion of the principal
amount is determined to be uncollectible.
The entire balance of a consumer loan or commercial loan or
lease is contractually delinquent if the minimum payment is not
received by the specified due date on the customer ’s billing
statement. Interest and fees continue to accrue on past due
loans and leases until the date the loan is place d on nonaccrual
status, if applicable. Accrued interest receivable is reversed when
loans and leases are placed on nonaccrual status. Interest
collections on nonaccruing loans and leases for which the
ultimate collectability of principal is uncertain are applied as
principal reductions; otherwise, such collections are credited to
income when received.  Loans and leases may be restored to
accrual status when all principal and interest is current and full
repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest is
expected.
Troubled Debt Restructurings
Consumer and commer cial loans and leases whose contractual
terms have  been restructured in a manner that grants a
concession to a borrow er experiencing financial difficulties are
classified as TDRs. Concessions could include a reduction in the
interest rate to a rate that is below market on the loan, payment
extensions, forgiveness of principal, forbearance  or other actions
designed to maximize collections. Loans that are carried at fair
value and LHFS are not classified as TDRs.
Bank of America 98
Loans and leases whose contractual terms  have been
modified in a TDR and are current at the time of restructuring
may remain on accrual status if there is demonstrated
performance prior to the restructuring and payment in full under
the restructured terms is expected. Otherwise, the loans are
placed on nonaccrual status and reported as nonperforming,
except for fully-insured consumer real estate loans, until there is
sustained repayment performance for a reasonable period,
generally six months. If accruing TDRs cease to perform in
accordance with their modified contractual terms, they are placed
on nonaccrual status and reported as nonperforming TDRs.
Secured consumer loans that have been discharged in
Chapter 7 bankruptcy and have not been reaffirmed by the
borrower are classified as TDRs at the time of discharge. Such
loans are placed on nonaccrual status and written down to the
estimated collateral value less costs to sell no later than at the
time of disch arge. If these loans are contractually  current, interest
collections are generally  recorded in interest income on a cash
basis. Consumer real estate-secured loans for which a binding
offer to restructure has been extended are also classified as
TDRs. Credit card and other unsecured consumer loans that
have been renegotiated  in a TDR generally remain on accrual
status until the loan is either paid in full or charged off, which
occurs no later than the end of the month in which the loan
becomes 180 days past due or, for loans that have been placed
on a fixed payment plan, 120 days past due.
A loan that had previously been modified in a TDR and is
subsequently refinanced under current underwriting standards at
a market rate with no concessionary terms is accounted for as a
new loan and is no longer reported as a TDR.
COVID-19 Programs
The Corporation has implemented various consumer and
commercial loan modification programs to provide its borrowers
relief from the economic impacts of the Coronavirus Disease
2019 (COVID-19) pandemic (the pandemic). In accordance with
the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES
Act), the Corporation has elected to not apply TDR classification
to eligible COVID-19 related loan modifica tions that were
performed after March 1, 2020 to loans that were current as of
December 31, 2019. Accordingly , these restructurings are not
classified as TDRs. The availability of this election expired on
January 1, 2022. In addition, for loans modified in response to
the pandemic that do not meet the above criteria (e.g., current
payment status at December 31, 2019), the Corporation is
applying the guidance included in an interag ency statement
issued by the bank regulatory agencies. This guidance states
that loan modifications performed in light of the pandemic,
including loan payment deferrals that are up to six months in
duration, that were granted to borrowers who were current as of
the implementation date of a loan modification program or
modifications granted under government manda ted modification
programs, are not TDRs. For loan modification s that include a
payment deferral and are not TDRs, the borrowe rs' past due and
nonaccrual status have not been impacted during the deferral
period. The Corporation has continued to accrue interest during
the deferral period using a constant effective yield method. For
most mortgage, HELOC and commercial loan modifications, the
contractual interest that accrued during the deferral period is
payable at the maturity of the loan. The Corporation includes
these amounts with the unpaid principal balance when computing
its allowance for credit losses. Amounts that are subsequently
deemed uncollectible are written off against the allowance for
credit losses.Loans Held-for-sale
Loans that the Corpora tion intends to sell in the foreseeable
future, includ ing residen tial mortgages, loan syndications, and to
a lesser degree, commercial real estate, consumer finance and
other loans, are reported  as LHFS and are carrie d at the lower of
aggregate cost or fair value. The Corporation accounts for certain
LHFS, including residential mortgage LHFS, under the fair value
option. Loan origination costs for LHFS carried  at the lower of
cost or fair value are capitalized as part of the carrying value of
the loans and, upon the sale of a loan, are recognized as part of
the gain or loss in noninterest income. LHFS that are on
nonaccrual status and are reported as nonperforming, as defined
in the policy herein, are reported separately from nonperforming
loans and leases.
Premises and Equipment
Premises and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated
depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are
recognized using the straight-line method over the estimated
useful lives of the assets. Estimated lives range  up to 40 years
for buildings, up to 12 years for furniture and equipment, and the
shorter of lease term or estimated useful life for leasehold
improvements.
Other Assets
For the Corporation’ s financial assets that are measured at
amortized cost and are not included in debt securities or loans
and leases on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Corporation
evaluates these assets for ECL using various techniques. For
assets that are subjec t to collateral mainten ance provisions,
including federal funds sold and securitie s borrowed or
purchased under agreements to resell, where the collateral
consists of daily margining of liquid and marketable assets where
the margining is expected to be maintained into the foreseeable
future, the expected losses are assumed to be zero. For all other
assets, the Corporation performs qualitative analyses, including
consideration of historical losses and current economic
conditions, to estimate any ECL which are then included in a
valuation account that is recorded as a contra-a sset against the
amortized cost basis of the financial asset.
Lessee Arrangements
Substantially all of the Corporation’ s lessee arrangements are
operating leases. Under these arrangements, the Corporation
records right-of-use assets and lease liabilities at lease
commencement. Right-o f-use assets are reporte d in other assets
on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, and the related lease
liabilities are reported in accrued expenses and other liabilities .
All leases are recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet
except lease s with an initial term less than 12 months for which
the Corporation made the short-term lease election. Lease
expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease
term and is recorded in occupancy and equipment expense in the
Consolidated Statement of Income.
The Corporation made an accounting policy election not to
separate lease and non-lease components of a contract that is or
contains a lease for its real estate and equipment leases. As
such, lease payments represent payments on both lease and
non-lease components. At lease commencement, lease liabilities
are recogniz ed based on the present value of the remaining
lease payments and discounted using the Corporation’ s
incremental borrowing rate. Right-of-use assets initially equal the
lease liability , adjusted for any lease payments
99 Bank of America
made prior to lease commencement and for any lease incentives.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Goodwill is the purcha se premium after adjusting for the fair
value of net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is
reviewed for potential impairment on an annual basis, or when
events or circumstances indicate a potential impairment, at the
reporting unit level. A reporting unit is a business segment or one
level below a business segment.
The Corpora tion assesses the fair value of each reporting unit
against its carrying value, including goodwill, as measured by
allocated equity . For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, the
Corporation utilizes allocated equity as a proxy for the carrying
value of its reporting units. Allocated equity in the reporting units
is comprised  of allocated capital plus capital for the portion of
goodwill and intangibles specifically assigned to the reporting
unit.
In performing its goodwi ll impairment testing, the Corporation
first assesses qualitative factors to determine whether it is more
likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its
carrying value. Qualitative factors include, among other things,
macroeconomic conditio ns, industry and market considerations,
financial performance of the respective reporting unit and other
relevant entity- and reporting-unit specific considerations.
If the Corpo ration concludes it is more likely than not that the
fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, a
quantitative assessment is performed. The Corporation has an
unconditional option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any
reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to performing the
quantitative goodwill impairment test. The Corporation may
resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent
period.
When performing the quantitative assessment, if the fair value
of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value , goodwill of the
reporting unit would not be considered impaire d. If the carrying
value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, a goodwill
impairment loss would be recognized for the amount by which
the reporting unit’s allocated equity exceeds its fair value. An
impairment loss recognized cannot exceed the amount of
goodwill assigned to a reporting unit. An impairment loss
establishes a new basis in the goodwill, and subsequent
reversals of goodwill impairment losses are not permitted under
applicable accounting guidance.
For intangib le assets subject to amortization, an impairment
loss is recognized if the carrying value of the intangible asset is
not recovera ble and exceeds fair value. The carrying value of the
intangible asset is cons idered not recoverable if it exceeds the
sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the
use of the asset. Intangible assets deemed to have indefinite
useful lives are not subje ct to amortization. An impairment loss is
recognized if the carryin g value of the intangible asset with an
indefinite life exceeds its fair value.
Variable Interest Entities
A VIE is an entity that lacks equity investors or whose equity
investors do not have a controlling financial interest in the entity
through their equity investments. The Corporatio n consolidates a
VIE if it has both the power to direct the activitie s of the VIE that
most significantly impact the VIE’s economic performance and an
obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that
could potent ially be significant to the VIE. On a quarterly basis,
the Corporation reassesses its involvement with the VIE and
evaluates the impact of changes in governingdocuments and its financial interests in the VIE. The
consolidation status of the VIEs with which the Corporation is
involved may change as a result of such reassessments.
The Corporation primarily uses VIEs for its securitization
activities, in which the Corporation transfers whole loans or debt
securities into a trust or other vehicle. When the Corporation is
the servicer of whole loans held in a securitization trust, including
non-agency residential mortgages, home equity loans, credit
cards, and other loans, the Corporation has the power to direct
the most significant activities of the trust. The Corporation
generally does not have the power to direct the most significant
activities of a residential  mortgage agency trust except in certain
circumstances in which the Corporation holds substantially all of
the issued securities and has the unilateral right to liquidate the
trust. The power to direct the most significan t activities of a
commercial mortgage securitization trust is typically held by the
special servicer or by the party holding specific subordinate
securities which embody certain controlling rights. The
Corporation consolidates a whole-loan securitization trust if it has
the power to direct the most significant activities and also holds
securities issued by the trust or has other contractual
arrangements, other than standard representations and
warranties, that could potentially be significant to the trust.
The Corporation may also transfer trading account securities
and AFS securities into municipal bond or resecuritization trusts.
The Corpo ration consolidates a municipal bond or
resecuritization trust if it has control over the ongoing activities of
the trust such as the remarketing of the trust’s liabilities or, if
there are no ongoing activities, sole discretion over the design of
the trust, including the identification of securities to be transferred
in and the structure of securities to be issued, and also retains
securities or has liquidity or other commitments that could
potentially be significant to the trust. The Corp oration does not
consolidate a municipal bond or resecuritization  trust if one or a
limited number of third-party investors share responsibility for the
design of the trust or have control over the significant activities of
the trust through liquidation or other substantive rights.
Other VIEs used by the Corporation include collateralized
debt obligations (CDOs), investment vehicles created on behalf
of customers and other investment vehicles. The Corporation
does not routinely serve as collateral manage r for CDOs and,
therefore, does not typically have the power to direct the activities
that most significantly impact the economic performance of a
CDO. However , following an event of default, if the Corporation is
a majority holder of senior securities issued by a CDO and
acquires the power to manage its assets, the Corporation
consolidates the CDO.
The Corporation consolidates a customer or other investment
vehicle if it has control over the initial design of the vehicle or
manages the assets in the vehicle and also absorbs potentially
significant gains or losses through an investment in the vehicle,
derivative contracts or other arrangements. The Corporation
does not consolidate an investment vehicle if a single investor
controlled the initial design of the vehicle or manages the assets
in the vehicles or if the Corporation does not have a variable
interest that could potentially be significant to the vehicle.
Retained interests in securitized assets are initially recorded
at fair value. In additio n, the Corporation may invest in debt
securities issued by unconsolidated VIEs. Fair values of these
debt securities, which are classified as trading account assets,
debt securiti es carried at fair value or HTM securities, are based
primarily on quoted market prices in active or inactive markets.
Generally , quoted market prices for retained residual interests
Bank of America 100
are not available; therefore, the Corporation estimates fair values
based on the present value of the associated  expected future
cash flows.
Fair Value
The Corporation measures the fair values of its assets and
liabilities, where applicable, in accordance with accounting
guidance that requires an entity to base fair value on exit price.
Under this guidance, an entity is required to maximize the use of
observable inputs and minimize the use of unobs ervable inputs in
measuring fair value. Under applicable accounting standards, fair
value measurements are categorized into one of three levels
based on the inputs to the valuation technique with the highest
priority given  to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets and
the lowest priority given to unobservable inputs. The Corporation
categorizes its fair value  measurements of financial instruments
based on this three-level hierarchy .
Level 1Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical
assets or liabilities. Level 1 assets and liabilities include
debt and equity securitie s and derivative contra cts that
are traded in an active exchange market, as well as
certain U.S. Treasury securities that are highly liquid
and are actively traded in OTC markets.
Level 2Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as
quoted price s for similar assets or liabilities, quoted
prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that
are observable or can be corroborated by observable
market data for substantially the full term of the assets
or liabilities. Level 2 assets and liabilities include debt
securities with quoted prices that are traded less
frequently than exchange-traded instruments and
derivative contracts where fair value is determined using
a pricing model with inputs that are observable in the
market or can be derived principally from or
corroborated by observable market data. This category
generally includes U.S. government and agency
mortgage-backed (MBS) and asset-backed securities
(ABS), corporate debt securities, derivative contracts,
certain loans and LHFS.
Level 3Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no
market activity and that are significant to the overall fair
value of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 assets and
liabilities include financial instruments for which the
determination of fair value requires significant
management judgment or estimation. The fair value for
such assets and liabilities is generally determined using
pricing mode ls, discoun ted cash flow methodolo gies or
similar techniques that incorporate the assumptions a
market participant would use in pricing the asset or
liability . This category generally includes retained
residual interests in securitizations, consumer MSRs,
certain ABS, highly structured, complex or long-dated
derivative contracts, certain loans and LHFS, IRLCs and
certain CDOs where independent pricing information
cannot be obtained for a significant portion of the
underlying assets.
Income Taxes
There are two compone nts of income tax expense: current and
deferred. Current income tax expense reflects taxes to be paid or
refunded for the current period. Deferred income tax expense
results from changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities
between periods. These gross deferred tax assets and liabilities
represent decreases or increases in taxes expected to be paidin the future because of future reversals of temporary differences
in the bases of assets and liabilities as measured by tax laws and
their bases as reported in the financial stateme nts. Deferred tax
assets are also recog nized for tax attributes such as net
operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards.
Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets
to the amounts management concludes are more likely than not
to be realized.
Income tax benefits are recognized and measured based
upon a two-step model: first, a tax position must be more likely
than not to be sustained based solely on its technical merits in
order to be recognized, and second, the benefit is measured as
the largest dollar amoun t of that position that is more likely than
not to be sustained upon settlement. The difference between the
benefit recognized and the tax benefit claimed on a tax return is
referred to as an unrecognized tax benefit. The Corporation
records income tax-related interest and penalties, if applicable,
within income tax expense.
Revenue Recognition
The following summarizes the Corporation’ s revenue recognition
accounting policies for certain noninterest income activities.
Card Income
Card income includes annual, late and over-limit fees as well as
interchange, cash advances and other miscellaneous items from
credit and debit card transactions and from processing card
transactions for merchants. Card income is presented net of
direct costs. Interchange fees are recognized upon settlement of
the credit and debit card payment transactions and are generally
determined on a percentage basis for credit cards and fixed rates
for debit cards based on the corresponding payment network’ s
rates. Subst antially all card fees are recognized at the transaction
date, excep t for certain time-based fees such as annual fees,
which are recognized over 12 months. Fees charged to
cardholders and merchants that are estimated to be uncollectible
are reserved in the allowance for loan and lease losses. Included
in direct cost are rewa rds and credit card partner payments.
Rewards paid to cardho lders are related to points earned by the
cardholder that can be redeemed for a broad range of rewards
including cash, travel and gift cards. The points to be redeemed
are estimated based on past redemption behavior , card product
type, account transaction activity and other  historical card
performance. The liability is reduced as the points are redeemed.
The Corporation also makes payments to credit card partners.
The payments are base d on revenue-sharing agreements that
are generally driven by cardholder transactions and partner sales
volumes. As part of the revenue-sharing agreements, the credit
card partner provides the Corporation exclusive rights to market
to the credit card partne r’s members or custom ers on behalf of
the Corporation.
Service Charges
Service charges include deposit and lending-related fees.
Deposit-related fees consist of fees earned on consumer and
commercial deposit activities and are generally recognized when
the transactions occur or as the service is performed. Consumer
fees are earned on consumer deposit accounts for account
maintenance and various transaction-based services, such as
ATM transactions, wire transfer activities, check and money order
processing and insuf ficient funds/overdraft transactions.
Commercial deposit-rel ated fees are from the Corporation’ s
Global Transaction Services business and consist of commercial
deposit and treasury management services, including account
maintenance and other services, such as payroll, sweep
101 Bank of America
account and other cash management services. Lending-related
fees genera lly represen t transactional fees earned from certain
loan commitments, financial guarantees and SBLCs.
Investment and Brokerage Services
Investment and brokerage services consist of asset management
and brokerage fees. Asset management fees are earned from the
management of client assets under advisory agreements or the
full discretion of the Corporation’ s financial advisors (collectively
referred to as assets under management (AUM)). Asset
management fees are earned as a percentag e of the client’ s
AUM and generally range from 50 basis points (bps) to 150 bps
of the AUM. In cases where a third party is used to obtain a
client’ s inves tment allocation, the fee remitted to the third party is
recorded net and is not reflected in the transaction price, as the
Corporation is an agent for those services.
Brokerage fees include income earned from transaction-
based services that are performed as part of investment
management services and are based on a fixed price per unit or
as a percentage of the total transaction amount. Brokerage fees
also include distribution fees and sales commissions that are
primarily in the Global Wealth & Investment Management
(GWIM ) segment and are earned over time. In addition, primarily
in the Global Markets  segm ent, brokerage fees are earned when
the Corporation fills customer orders to buy or sell various
financial products or when it acknowledges, affirms, settles and
clears trans actions and/or submits trade information to the
appropriate clearing broker . Certain customers pay brokerage,
clearing and/or exchange fees imposed by relevant regulatory
bodies or exchanges in order to execute or clear trades. These
fees are recorded net and are not reflected in the transaction
price, as the Corporation is an agent for those services.
Investment Banking Income
Investment banking income includes underwri ting income and
financial advisory services income. Underwriting  consists of fees
earned for the placem ent of a customer ’s debt or equity
securities. The revenue is generally earned based on a
percentage of the fixed number of shares or principal placed.
Once the number of shares or notes is determined and the
service is completed, the underwriting fees are recognized. The
Corporation incurs certain out-of-pocket expense s, such as legal
costs, in performing these services. These  expenses are
recovered through the revenue the Corporation earns from the
customer and are included in operating expen ses. Syndication
fees represent fees earned as the agent or lead lender
responsible for structuring, arranging and administering a loan
syndication.
Financial advisory services consist of fees earned for
assisting clients with transactions related to mergers and
acquisitions and financial restructurings. Revenue varies
depending on the size of the transaction and scope of services
performed and is gener ally contingent on succe ssful completion
of the transaction. Revenue is typically recognized once the
transaction is completed and all services have been rendered.
Additionally , the Corporation may earn a fixed fee in merger and
acquisition transactions to provide a fairness opinion, with the
fees recognized when the opinion is delivered to the client.
Other Revenue Measurement and Recognition Policies
The Corporation did not disclose the value of any open
performance obligations at December 31, 2021, as its contracts
with customers generally have a fixed term that is less than one
year, an open term with a cancellation period that is less than
one year, or provisions that allow the Corporat ion to recognize
revenue at the amount it has the right to invoice.Earnings Per Common Share
Earnings per common share (EPS) is compute d by dividing net
income allocated to common shareholders by the weighted-
average common shares outstanding, excluding unvested
common shares subject to repurchase or cancellation. Net
income allocated to common shareholders is net income
adjusted for preferred stock dividends including dividends
declared, accretion of discounts on preferred stock including
accelerated accretion when preferred stock is repaid early , and
cumulative dividends related to the current dividend period that
have not been declared  as of period end, less income allocated
to participating securities. Diluted EPS is computed by dividing
income allocated to common shareholders plus dividends on
dilutive convertible preferred stock and preferred stock that can
be tendered  to exercise warrants, by the weighted-average
common shares outstanding plus amounts representing the
dilutive effect of stock options outstanding, restricted stock,
restricted stock units (RSUs), outstanding warrants and the
dilution resulting from the conversion of convertible preferred
stock, if applicable.
Foreign Currency T ranslation
Assets, liabilities and operations of foreign branches and
subsidiaries are recorded based on the functional currency of
each entity . When the functional currency of a foreign operation
is the local currency , the assets, liabilities and operations are
translated, for consolidation purposes, from the local currency to
the U.S. dollar reporting  currency at period-end rates for assets
and liabilities and generally at average rates for results of
operations. The resulting unrealized gains and losses are
reported as a component of accumulated OCI, net-of-tax. When
the foreign entity’ s functional currency is the U.S. dollar , the
resulting remeasurement gains or losses on foreign currency-
denominated assets or liabilities are included in earnings.
Paycheck Protection Program
The Corporation is participating in the Paycheck Protection
Program (PPP), which is a loan program that originated from the
CARES Act and was subsequently expanded by the Paycheck
Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act. The PPP
is designed to provide U.S. small businesses with cash-flow
assistance through loans fully guaranteed by the Small Business
Administration (SBA). If the borrower meets certain criteria and
uses the proceeds towards certain eligible  expenses, the
borrower ’s obligation to repay the loan can be forgiven up to the
full principal amount of the loan and any accrued interest. Upon
borrower forgiveness, the SBA pays the Corporation for the
principal and accrued interest owed on the loan. If the full
principal of the loan is not forgiven, the loan will operate
according to the original loan terms with the 100 percent SBA
guaranty remaining. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, the
Corporation had approximately 67,000  and 332,000  PPP loans
with a carrying value of $4.7 billion and $22.7 billion. As
compensation for originating the loans, the Corporation received
lender processing fees from the SBA, which were capitalized,
along with the loan origination costs, and are being amortized
over the loans’  contractual lives and recognized as interest
income. Upon forgiveness of a loan and repaym ent by the SBA,
any unrecognized net capitalized fees and costs related to the
loan are recognized as interest income in that period.
Bank of America 102
NOTE 2 Net Interest Income and Noninterest Income
The table below presents the Corporation’ s net interest income and noninterest income disaggregated by revenue source for 2021,
2020 and 2019. For more information, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles. For a disagg regation of noninterest
income by business segment and All Other , see Note 23 – Business Segment Information .
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Net interest income
Interest income
Loans and leases $ 29,282 $ 34,029 $ 43,086 
Debt securities 12,376 9,790 11,806 
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell (90) 903 4,843 
Trading account assets 3,770 4,128 5,196 
Other interest income 2,334 2,735 6,305 
Total interest income 47,672 51,585 71,236 
Interest expense
Deposits 537 1,943 7,188 
Short-term borrowings (358) 987 7,208 
Trading account liabilities 1,128 974 1,249 
Long-term debt 3,431 4,321 6,700 
Total interest expense 4,738 8,225 22,345 
Net interest income $ 42,934 $ 43,360 $ 48,891 
Noninterest income
Fees and commissions
Card income
Interchange fees $ 4,560 $ 3,954 $ 3,834 
Other card income 1,658 1,702 1,963 
Total card income 6,218 5,656 5,797 
Service charges
Deposit-related fees 6,271 5,991 6,588 
Lending-related fees 1,233 1,150 1,086 
Total service charges 7,504 7,141 7,674 
Investment and brokerage services
Asset management fees 12,729 10,708 10,241 
Brokerage fees 3,961 3,866 3,661 
Total investment and brokerage services 16,690 14,574 13,902 
Investment banking fees
Underwriting income 5,077 4,698 2,998 
Syndication fees 1,499 861 1,184 
Financial advisory services 2,311 1,621 1,460 
Total investment banking fees 8,887 7,180 5,642 
Total fees and commissions 39,299 34,551 33,015 
Market making and similar activities 8,691 8,355 9,034 
Other income (loss) (1,811) (738) 304 
Total noninterest income $ 46,179 $ 42,168 $ 42,353 
For more information on negative interest, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles.
Gross interchange  fees and merchant income were $11.5 billion, $9.2 billion and $10.0 billion for 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively , and are presented net of $6.9 billion, $5.5 billion and $6.2 billion
of expenses for rewards and partner payments as well as certain other card costs for the same periods.(1)
(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
103 Bank of America
NOTE 3 Derivatives
Derivative Balances
Derivatives are entered into on behalf of customers, for trading or
to support risk management activities. Derivatives used in risk
management activities include derivatives that may or may not be
designated in qualifying hedge accountin g relationships.
Derivatives that are not designated in qualifying hedge
accounting relationships are referred to as other risk
management derivatives. For more information on theCorporation’ s derivatives and hedging activities, see Note 1 –
Summary of Significant Accounting Principles . The following
tables present derivative instruments included on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet in derivative assets and liabilities at
December 31, 2021 and 2020. Balances are presented on a
gross basis,  prior to the application of counte rparty and cash
collateral netting. Total derivative assets and liabilities are
adjusted on an aggregate basis to take into consideration the
effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements and
have been reduced by cash collateral received or paid.
December 31, 2021
Gross Derivative Assets Gross Derivative Liabilities
(Dollars in billions)Contract/
Notional Trading and
Other Risk
Management
DerivativesQualifying
Accounting
Hedges TotalTrading and
Other Risk
Management
DerivativesQualifying
Accounting
Hedges Total
Interest rate contracts        
Swaps $ 18,068.1 $ 150.5 $ 8.9 $ 159.4 $ 156.4 $ 4.4 $ 160.8 
Futures and forwards 2,243.2 1.1 — 1.1 1.0 — 1.0 
Written options 1,616.1 — — — 28.8 — 28.8 
Purchased options 1,673.6 33.1 — 33.1 — — — 
Foreign exchange contracts  
Swaps 1,420.9 28.6 0.2 28.8 30.5 0.2 30.7 
Spot, futures and forwards 4,087.2 37.1 0.3 37.4 37.7 0.2 37.9 
Written options 287.2 — — — 4.1 — 4.1 
Purchased options 267.6 4.1 — 4.1 — — — 
Equity contracts  
Swaps 443.8 12.3 — 12.3 14.5 — 14.5 
Futures and forwards 113.3 0.5 — 0.5 1.7 — 1.7 
Written options 737.7 — — — 58.5 — 58.5 
Purchased options 657.0 55.9 — 55.9 — — — 
Commodity contracts   
Swaps 47.7 3.1 — 3.1 6.0 — 6.0 
Futures and forwards 101.5 2.3 — 2.3 0.3 1.1 1.4 
Written options 44.4 — — — 2.6 — 2.6 
Purchased options 38.3 3.2 — 3.2 — — — 
Credit derivatives    
Purchased credit derivatives:    
Credit default swaps 297.0 1.9 — 1.9 4.3 — 4.3 
Total return swaps/options 85.3 0.2 — 0.2 1.1 — 1.1 
Written credit derivatives:   
Credit default swaps 279.8 4.2 — 4.2 1.6 — 1.6 
Total return swaps/options 85.3 0.9 — 0.9 0.5 — 0.5 
Gross derivative assets/liabilities $ 339.0 $ 9.4 $ 348.4 $ 349.6 $ 5.9 $ 355.5 
Less: Legally enforceable master netting
agreements   (282.3)   (282.3)
Less: Cash collateral received/paid    (30.8)   (35.5)
Total derivative assets/liabilities    $ 35.3   $ 37.7 
Represents the total contract/notional amount of derivative assets and liabilities outstanding.
The net derivative asset and notional amount of written credit derivatives for which the Corporation held purchased credit derivatives with identical underlying referenced names were $ 2.3 billion and
$258.4  billion at December 31, 2021.(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
Bank of America 104
December 31, 2020
Gross Derivative Assets Gross Derivative Liabilities
(Dollars in billions)Contract/
Notional Trading and
Other Risk
Management
DerivativesQualifying
Accounting
Hedges TotalTrading and
Other Risk
Management
DerivativesQualifying
Accounting
Hedges Total
Interest rate contracts        
Swaps $ 13,242.8 $ 199.9 $ 10.9 $ 210.8 $ 209.3 $ 1.3 $ 210.6 
Futures and forwards 3,222.2 3.5 0.1 3.6 3.6 — 3.6 
Written options 1,530.5 — — — 40.5 — 40.5 
Purchased options 1,545.8 45.3 — 45.3 — — — 
Foreign exchange contracts       
Swaps 1,475.8 37.1 0.3 37.4 39.7 0.6 40.3 
Spot, futures and forwards 3,710.7 53.4 — 53.4 54.5 0.5 55.0 
Written options 289.6 — — — 4.8 — 4.8 
Purchased options 279.3 5.0 — 5.0 — — — 
Equity contracts        
Swaps 320.2 13.3 — 13.3 14.5 — 14.5 
Futures and forwards 106.2 0.3 — 0.3 1.4 — 1.4 
Written options 599.1 — — — 48.8 — 48.8 
Purchased options 541.2 52.6 — 52.6 — — — 
Commodity contracts        
Swaps 36.4 1.9 — 1.9 4.4 — 4.4 
Futures and forwards 63.6 2.0 — 2.0 1.0 — 1.0 
Written options 24.6 — — — 1.4 — 1.4 
Purchased options 24.7 1.5 — 1.5 — — — 
Credit derivatives        
Purchased credit derivatives:        
Credit default swaps 322.7 2.3 — 2.3 4.4 — 4.4 
Total return swaps/options 63.6 0.2 — 0.2 1.0 — 1.0 
Written credit derivatives:       
Credit default swaps 301.5 4.4 — 4.4 1.9 — 1.9 
Total return swaps/options 68.6 0.6 — 0.6 0.4 — 0.4 
Gross derivative assets/liabilities  $ 423.3 $ 11.3 $ 434.6 $ 431.6 $ 2.4 $ 434.0 
Less: Legally enforceable master netting agreements    (344.9)   (344.9)
Less: Cash collateral received/paid    (42.5)   (43.6)
Total derivative assets/liabilities    $ 47.2   $ 45.5 
Represents the total contract/notional amount of derivative assets and liabilities outstanding.
The net derivative asset and notiona l amount of written credit derivatives for which the Corporation held purchased credit derivatives with identical underlying referenced names were $2.2 billion and
$269.8  billion at December 31, 2020.
Offsetting of Derivatives
The Corporation enters into International Swaps and Derivatives
Association, Inc. (ISDA) master netting agree ments or similar
agreements with substantially all of the Corpor ation’ s derivative
counterparties. Where legally enforceable, these master netting
agreements give the Corporation, in the event of default by the
counterparty , the right to liquidate securities held as collateral
and to offset receivables and payables with the same
counterparty . For purposes of the Consolidated Balance Sheet,
the Corporation offsets derivative assets and liabilities and cash
collateral held with the same counterparty where it has such a
legally enforceable master netting agreement.
The following table presents derivative instruments included
in derivative assets and liabilities on the Consolidated BalanceSheet at December 31, 2021 and 2020 by primary risk (e.g.,
interest rate risk) and the platform, where applicable, on which
these derivatives are transacted. Balances are presented on a
gross basis,  prior to the application of counte rparty and cash
collateral netting. Total gross derivative assets and liabilities are
adjusted on an aggregate basis to take into consideration the
effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements, which
include reducing the balance for counterparty netting and cash
collateral received or paid.
For more information on offsetting of securities financing
agreements, see Note 10 – Securities Financing Agreements,
Short-term Borrowings and Restricted Cash .(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
105 Bank of America
Offsetting of Derivatives 
Derivative
AssetsDerivative
 LiabilitiesDerivative
AssetsDerivative
 Liabilities
(Dollars in billions) December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Interest rate contracts     
Over-the-counter $ 171.3 $ 166.3 $ 247.7 $ 243.5 
Exchange-traded 0.2 — — — 
Over-the-counter cleared 22.6 22.5 10.2 9.1 
Foreign exchange contracts
Over-the-counter 67.9 70.5 92.2 96.5 
Over-the-counter cleared 1.1 1.1 1.4 1.3 
Equity contracts
Over-the-counter 29.2 32.9 31.3 28.3 
Exchange-traded 38.3 38.4 32.3 31.0 
Commodity contracts
Over-the-counter 6.1 7.6 3.5 5.0 
Exchange-traded 1.4 1.3 0.7 0.7 
Over-the-counter cleared 0.1 0.1 — — 
Credit derivatives
Over-the-counter 5.2 5.3 5.2 5.6 
Over-the-counter cleared 1.8 1.8 2.2 1.9 
Total gross derivative assets/liabilities, before netting
Over-the-counter 279.7 282.6 379.9 378.9 
Exchange-traded 39.9 39.7 33.0 31.7 
Over-the-counter cleared 25.6 25.5 13.8 12.3 
Less: Legally enforceable master netting agreements and cash collateral received/paid
Over-the-counter (250.3) (254.6) (345.7) (347.2)
Exchange-traded (37.8) (37.8) (29.5) (29.5)
Over-the-counter cleared (25.0) (25.4) (12.2) (11.8)
Derivative assets/liabilities, after netting 32.1 30.0 39.3 34.4 
Other gross derivative assets/liabilities 3.2 7.7 7.9 11.1 
Total derivative assets/liabilities 35.3 37.7 47.2 45.5 
Less: Financial instruments collateral (11.8) (10.6) (16.1) (16.6)
Total net derivative assets/liabilities $ 23.5 $ 27.1 $ 31.1 $ 28.9 
Over-the-counter derivatives include bilateral transactions between the Corporation and a particular counterparty . Over-the-counter cleared derivatives include bilateral transactions between the
Corporation and a counterparty where the transaction is cleared through a clearinghouse. Exchange-traded derivatives include listed options transacted on an exchange.
Consists of derivatives entered into under master netting agreements where the enforceability of these agreements is uncertain under bankruptcy laws in some countries or industries.
Amounts are limited to the derivative asset/liability balance and, accordingly , do not include excess collateral received/pledged. Financial instrum ents collateral includes securities collateral received
or pledged and cash securities held and posted at third-party custodians that are not of fset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet but shown as a reduction to derive net derivative assets and liabilities.
ALM and Risk Management Derivatives
The Corporation’ s ALM and risk management activities include
the use of derivatives to mitigate risk to the Corporation including
derivatives designated  in qualifying hedge accounting
relationships and derivatives used in other risk management
activities. Interest rate, foreign exchange, equity , commodity and
credit contra cts are utilized in the Corporation's ALM and risk
management activities.
The Corporation maintains an overall interest rate risk
management strategy that incorporates the use of interest rate
contracts, which are generally non-leveraged generic interest
rate and basis swaps, options, futures and forwa rds, to minimize
significant fluctuations in earnings caused by interest rate
volatility . The Corporation’ s goal is to manage interest rate
sensitivity and volatility so that movements in interest rates do
not significantly adversely affect earnings or capital. As a result of
interest rate fluctuations, hedged fixed-rate assets and liabilities
appreciate or depreciate in fair value. Gains or losses on the
derivative instruments that are linked to the hedged fixed-rate
assets and liabilities are expected to substantially offset this
unrealized appreciation or depreciation.
Market risk, including interest rate risk, can be substantial in
the mortgage business. Market risk in the mortgage business is
the risk that values of mortgage assets or revenues will be
adversely affected by changes in market conditions such as
interest rate movements. To mitigate the interest rate risk in
mortgage banking production income, the Corporation utilizesforward loan sale commitments and other deriva tive instruments,
including purchased options, and certain debt securities. The
Corporation also utilizes derivatives such as interest rate options,
interest rate swaps, forward settlement contracts and eurodollar
futures to hedge certain market risks of MSRs.
The Corpora tion uses foreign exchange contrac ts to manage
the foreign exchange risk associated with certain foreign
currency-denominated assets and liabilities, as well as the
Corporation’ s investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries. Exposure to
loss on these contracts will increase or decrease over their
respective lives as currency exchange and interest rates
fluctuate.
The Corporation purchases credit derivatives to manage
credit risk related to certain funded and unfunded credit
exposures. Credit deriva tives include credit default swaps (CDS),
total return swaps and swaptions. These derivatives are recorded
on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value with changes in
fair value recorded in other income.
Derivatives Designated as Accounting Hedges
The Corporation uses various types of interest rate and foreign
exchange derivative contracts to protect against changes in the
fair value of its assets and liabilities due to fluctuations in interest
rates and exchange rates (fair value hedges). The Corporation
also uses these types of contracts to protect against changes in
the cash flows of its assets and liabilities,(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
Bank of America 106
and other forecasted transactions (cash flow hedges). The
Corporation hedges its net investment in consolidated non-U.S.
operations determined to have functional currencies other than
the U.S. dollar using forward exchange contracts and cross-
currency basis swaps, and by issuing foreign currency-
denominated debt (net investment hedges).Fair Value Hedges
The table below summarizes information related to fair value
hedges for 2021, 2020 and 2019.
Gains and Losses on Derivatives Designated as Fair Value Hedges
Derivative Hedged Item
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019 2021 2020 2019
Interest rate risk on long-term debt $ (7,018)$ 7,091 $ 6,113 $ 6,838 $ (7,220)$ (6,110)
Interest rate and foreign currency risk on long-term debt (90) 783 119 79 (783) (101)
Interest rate risk on available-for-sale securities 5,203 (44) (102) (5,167) 49 98 
Total $ (1,905)$ 7,830 $ 6,130 $ 1,750 $ (7,954)$ (6,113)
Amounts are recorded in interest expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
For 2021, 2020 and 2019, the derivative amount includes gains (losses) of $(73) million, $701 million and $73 million in interest expense, $0, $73 million and $28 million in market making and similar
activities, and $( 17) million, $ 9 million and $ 18 million in accumulated OCI, respectively . Line item totals are in the Consolidated Statement of Income and on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Amounts are recorded in interest income in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
The table below summarizes the carrying value of hedged assets and liabilities that are designated and qualifying in fair value
hedging relationships along with the cumulative amount of fair value hedging adjustments included in the carrying value that have
been recorded in the current hedging relationships. These fair value hedging adjustments are open basis adjustments that are not
subject to amortization as long as the hedging relationship remains designated.
Designated Fair Value Hedged Assets and Liabilities
December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
(Dollars in millions) Carrying ValueCumulative
Fair Value
 Adjustments Carrying ValueCumulative
Fair Value
 Adjustments
Long-term debt $ 181,745 $ 3,987 $ 150,556 $ 8,910 
Available-for-sale debt securities 209,038 (2,294) 116,252 114 
Trading account assets 2,067 32 427 15 
Increase (decrease) to carrying value.
At Decem ber 31, 2021 and 2020, the cumulative fair value adjustments remaining on long-term debt and available-for-sale debt securities from discontinued hedging relationships resulted in an
increase in the related liability of $1.5 billion and $3.7 billion and a decrease in the related  asset of $1.0 billion and $69 million, which are being amortized over the remaining contractual life of the de-
designated hedged items.
These amounts include the amortized cost of the prepayable financial assets used to designate hedging relationships in which the hedged item is the last layer expected to be remaining at the end of
the hedging relationship (i.e. last-of-l ayer hedging relationship). At December 31, 2021 and 2020, the amortized cost of the closed portfolios used  in these hedging relationships was $21.1 billion and
$34.6 billion, of which $6.9 billion and $7.0 billion was desig nated in the last-of-layer hedging relationship. At December 31, 2021, the cumulative adjustment associated with these hedging
relationships was a decrease of $ 172 million. At December 31, 2020, the cumulative adjustment was insignificant.
Carrying value represents amortized cost.
Represents hedging activities related to certain commodities inventory .
Cash Flow and Net Investment Hedges
The table below summarizes certain information related to cash
flow hedges  and net investment hedges for 2021, 2020 and
2019. Of the $1.9 billion after-tax net loss ($2.5 billion pretax) on
derivatives in accumulated OCI at December 31, 2021, gains of
$477 million after-tax ($630 million pretax) related to both open
and terminated cash flow hedges are expected to bereclassified into earnings in the next 12 months. These net gains
reclassified into earnings are expected to primarily increase net
interest income related to the respective hedged items. For
terminated cash flow hedges, the time period over which the
majority of the forecasted transactions are hedged is
approximately 3 years, with a maximum length of time for certain
forecasted transactions of 15 years.
Gains and Losses on Derivatives Designated as Cash Flow and Net Investment Hedges
Gains (Losses) Recognized in
Accumulated OCI on DerivativesGains (Losses) in Income
Reclassified from Accumulated OCI
(Dollars in millions, amounts pretax) 2021 2020 2019 2021 2020 2019
Cash flow hedges
Interest rate risk on variable-rate assets $ (2,686)$ 763 $ 671 $ 148 $ (7)$ (104)
Price risk on forecasted MBS purchases (249) 241 — 26 9 — 
Price risk on certain compensation plans 93 85 34 55 12 (2)
Total $ (2,842)$ 1,089 $ 705 $ 229 $ 14 $ (106)
Net investment hedges
Foreign exchange risk $ 1,451 $ (834)$ 22 $ 23 $ 4 $ 366 
Amounts reclassified from accumulated OCI are recorded in interest income in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Amounts reclassified from accumulated OCI are recorded in compensation and benefits expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Amounts reclassified from accumulated OCI are recorded in other income in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Amounts excluded from ef fectiveness testing and recognized in market making
and similar activities were gains (losses) of $( 123) million, $( 11) million and $ 154 million in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively .(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)  (1)
(2)
(2, 3, 4)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(1)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
107 Bank of America
Other Risk Management Derivatives
Other risk management derivatives are used by the Corporation
to reduce certain risk exposures by economically hedging various
assets and liabilities. The table below present s gains (losses) on
these deriva tives for 2021, 2020 and 2019. These gains (losses)
are largely offset by the income or expense recorded on the
hedged item.
Gains and Losses on Other Risk Management
Derivatives
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Interest rate risk on mortgage activities $ (18)$ 611 $ 388 
Credit risk on loans (25) (68) (58)
Interest rate and foreign currency risk on
asset and liability management activities 1,757 (2,971) 1,112 
Price risk on certain compensation plans 917 700 943 
Includes hedges of interest rate risk on MSRs and IRLCs to originate mortgage loans that will
be held for sale.
Gains (losses) on these derivatives are recorded in other income.
Gains (losses) on these derivatives are recorded in market making and similar activities.
Gains (losses) on these derivatives are recorded in compensation and benefits expense.
Transfers of Financial Assets with Risk Retained
through Derivatives
The Corporation enters into certain transactio ns involving the
transfer of financial asse ts that are accounted for as sales where
substantially all of the economic exposure to the transferred
financial assets is retained through derivatives (e.g., interest rate
and/or credi t), but the Corporation does not retain control over
the assets transferred. At December 31, 2021  and 2020, the
Corporation had transferred $4.8 billion  and $5.2 billion  of non-
U.S. govern ment-guaranteed mortgage-backed securities to a
third-party trust and retained economic exposure to the
transferred assets through derivative contract s. In connection
with these transfers, the Corporation received gross cash
proceeds of $4.8 billion  and $5.2 billion  at the transfer dates. At
December 31, 2021 and 2020, the fair value of the transferred
securities was $ 5.0 billion and $ 5.5 billion.
Sales and Trading Revenue
The Corporation enters into trading derivatives to facilitate client
transactions and to manage risk exposures arising from trading
account assets and liabilities. It is the Corpor ation’ s policy to
include these derivative instruments in its trading activities, which
include derivatives and non-derivative cash instruments. The
resulting risk from these derivatives is managed on a portfolio
basis as part of the Corporation’ s Global Markets  business
segment. The related sales and trading revenue generated within
Global Markets  is recorded in various income statement line
items, including market making and similar activities and net
interest income as well as other revenue categories.
Sales and trading revenue includes changes in the fair value
and realized gains and losses on the sales of trading and other
assets, net interest income, and fees primarily from commissions
on equity securities. Revenue is generated by the difference in
the client price for an instrument and the price at which the
trading desk  can execute the trade in the dealer market. For
equity securities, commissions related to purchases and sales
are recorde d in the “Other” column in the Sales and Trading
Revenue table. Changes in the fair value of these securities are
included in market making and similar activities. For debt
securities, revenue, with the exception of interest associated with
the debt securities, is typically included in market making and
similar activities. Unlike  commissions for equity securities, the
initial revenue related to broker-dealerservices for debt securit ies is typically included in the pricing of
the instrument rather than being charged through separate fee
arrangements. Therefore, this revenue is recorded in market
making and similar activities as part of the initial mark to fair
value. For derivatives, the majority of revenue is included in
market making and similar activities. In transactions where the
Corporation acts as agent, which include exchange-traded
futures and options, fees are recorded in other income.
The table below , which includes both derivatives and non-
derivative cash instruments, identifies the amounts in the
respective income statement line items attributable to the
Corporation’ s sales and trading revenue in Global Markets ,
categorized by primary risk, for 2021, 2020 and 2019. This table
includes debit valuation adjustment (DVA) and funding valuation
adjustment (FVA) gains (losses). Global Markets  results in Note
23 – Busine ss Segment Information  are presen ted on a fully
taxable-equivalent (FTE) basis. The table below is not presented
on an FTE basis.
Sales and Trading Revenue
Market
making and
similar
activitiesNet Interest
Income Other Total
(Dollars in millions) 2021
Interest rate risk $ 523 $ 1,794 $ 217 $ 2,534 
Foreign exchange risk 1,505 (80) 14 1,439 
Equity risk 4,581 (5) 1,834 6,410 
Credit risk 1,390 1,684 556 3,630 
Other risk 759 (128) 124 755 
Total sales and
trading revenue $ 8,758 $ 3,265 $ 2,745 $ 14,768 
2020
Interest rate risk $ 2,236 $ 2,279 $ 229 $ 4,744 
Foreign exchange risk 1,486 (19) 2 1,469 
Equity risk 3,656 (77) 1,801 5,380 
Credit risk 783 1,758 331 2,872 
Other risk 308 4 44 356 
Total sales and
trading revenue $ 8,469 $ 3,945 $ 2,407 $ 14,821 
2019
Interest rate risk $ 1,046 $ 1,697 $ 113 $ 2,856 
Foreign exchange risk 1,293 61 56 1,410 
Equity risk 3,563 (634) 1,569 4,498 
Credit risk 1,040 1,928 519 3,487 
Other risk 120 70 54 244 
Total sales and
trading revenue $ 7,062 $ 3,122 $ 2,311 $ 12,495 
Represents amounts in investment and brokerage services and other income that are
recorded in Global Markets  and included in the definition of sales and trading revenue.
Includes investme nt and brokerage services revenue of $1.9 billion, $1.9 billion and $1.7 billion
in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively .
Includes commodity risk.
Credit Derivatives
The Corporation enters into credit derivatives primarily to
facilitate client transactions and to manage credit risk exposures.
Credit derivatives derive value based on an underlying third-party
referenced obligation or a portfolio of referenced obligations and
generally require the Corporation, as the seller of credit
protection, to make paym ents to a buyer upon the occurrence of
a predefined credit event. Such credit events generally include
bankruptcy of the referenced credit entity and failure to pay under
the obligation, as well as acceleration of indebtedness and
payment repudiation or moratorium. For credit derivatives based
on a portfo lio of referenced credits or credit indices, the
Corporation may not be required to make payment until a
specified amount of loss has(1, 2)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(2)
(2)
(1)
(2)
Bank of America 108
occurred and/or may only be required to make payment up to a
specified amount.
Credit derivatives are classified as investme nt and non-
investment grade based  on the credit quality of the underlying
referenced obligation. The Corporation considers ratings of BBB-
or higher as investment grade. Non-investmen t grade includes
non-rated credit derivative instruments. The Corporationdiscloses internal categ orizations of investment grade and non-
investment grade consis tent with how risk is managed for these
instruments.
Credit derivative instruments where the Corporation is the
seller of credit protection and their expiration at December 31,
2021 and 2020 are summarized in the table below .
Credit Derivative Instruments
Less than
One YearOne to
Three YearsThree to
Five YearsOver Five
Years Total
December 31, 2021
(Dollars in millions) Carrying Value
Credit default swaps:      
Investment grade $ — $ 5 $ 79 $ 49 $ 133 
Non-investment grade 34 250 453 769 1,506 
Total 34 255 532 818 1,639 
Total return swaps/options:      
Investment grade 35 388 — — 423 
Non-investment grade 105 — 16 — 121 
Total 140 388 16 — 544 
Total credit derivatives $ 174 $ 643 $ 548 $ 818 $ 2,183 
Credit-related notes:      
Investment grade $ — $ — $ 36 $ 412 $ 448 
Non-investment grade 5 — 9 1,334 1,348 
Total credit-related notes $ 5 $ — $ 45 $ 1,746 $ 1,796 
 Maximum Payout/Notional
Credit default swaps:      
Investment grade $ 34,503 $ 66,334 $ 73,444 $ 17,844 $ 192,125 
Non-investment grade 16,119 29,233 34,356 7,961 87,669 
Total 50,622 95,567 107,800 25,805 279,794 
Total return swaps/options:      
Investment grade 49,626 11,494 78 — 61,198 
Non-investment grade 22,621 717 642 73 24,053 
Total 72,247 12,211 720 73 85,251 
Total credit derivatives $ 122,869 $ 107,778 $ 108,520 $ 25,878 $ 365,045 
December 31, 2020
Carrying Value
Credit default swaps:
Investment grade $ — $ 1 $ 35 $ 94 $ 130 
Non-investment grade 26 233 364 1,163 1,786 
Total 26 234 399 1,257 1,916 
Total return swaps/options:      
Investment grade 21 4 — — 25 
Non-investment grade 345 — — — 345 
Total 366 4 — — 370 
Total credit derivatives $ 392 $ 238 $ 399 $ 1,257 $ 2,286 
Credit-related notes:      
Investment grade $ — $ — $ — $ 572 $ 572 
Non-investment grade 64 2 10 947 1,023 
Total credit-related notes $ 64 $ 2 $ 10 $ 1,519 $ 1,595 
 Maximum Payout/Notional
Credit default swaps:
Investment grade $ 33,474 $ 75,731 $ 87,218 $ 16,822 $ 213,245 
Non-investment grade 13,664 28,770 35,978 9,852 88,264 
Total 47,138 104,501 123,196 26,674 301,509 
Total return swaps/options:      
Investment grade 30,961 1,061 77 — 32,099 
Non-investment grade 36,128 364 27 5 36,524 
Total 67,089 1,425 104 5 68,623 
Total credit derivatives $ 114,227 $ 105,926 $ 123,300 $ 26,679 $ 370,132 
The notional amount represents the maximum amount
payable by the Corporation for most credit derivatives. However ,
the Corporation does not monitor its exposure to credit
derivatives based solely on the notional amount because this
measure does not take into consideration the probability of
occurrence. As such, the notional amount is not a reliableindicator of the Corporation’ s exposure to these contracts.
Instead, a risk framewo rk is used to define risk tolerances and
establish limits so that certain credit risk-related losses occur
within acceptable, predefined limits.
Credit-related notes in the table above include investments in
securities issued by CDO, collateralized loan obligation (CLO)
109 Bank of America
and credit-linked note vehicles. These instruments are primarily
classified as trading securities. The carrying value of these
instruments equals the Corporation’ s maximum exposure to loss.
The Corporation is not obligated to make any payments to the
entities under the terms of the securities owned.
Credit-related Contingent Features and Collateral
The Corporation executes the majority of its derivative contracts
in the OTC market with large, international financial institutions,
including broker-dealers and, to a lesser degree, with a variety of
non-financial companies . A significant majority of the derivative
transactions are executed on a daily margin basis. Therefore,
events such as a credit rating downgrade (depending on the
ultimate rating level) or a breach of credit covenants would
typically require an increase in the amount of collateral required
of the counterparty , where applicable, and/or allow the
Corporation to take additional protective measures such as early
termination of all trades. Further , as previously discussed on
page 105, the Corporation enters into legally enforceable master
netting agreements that reduce risk by permitting closeout and
netting of transactions with the same counterparty upon the
occurrence of certain events.
Certain of the Corporatio n’s derivative contracts contain credit
risk-related contingent features, primarily in the form of ISDA
master nettin g agreemen ts and credit support documentation that
enhance the creditworthiness of these instrume nts compared to
other obligations of the respective counterparty with whom the
Corporation has transacted. These contingent features may be
for the benefit of the Corporation as well as its counterparties
with respect to changes in the Corporation’ s creditworthiness and
the mark-to-market exposure under the derivative transactions.
At Decembe r 31, 2021 and 2020, the Corporatio n held cash and
securities collateral of $91.4 billion and $96.5 billion and posted
cash and securities collateral of $79.3 billion and $88.6 billion in
the normal course of business under derivative agreements,
excluding cross-product margining agreements where clients are
permitted to margin on a net basis for both derivative and
secured financing arrangements.
In connection with certain OTC derivative contracts and other
trading agreements, the Corporation can be required to provide
additional collateral or to terminate transactio ns with certain
counterparties in the event of a downgrade of the senior debt
ratings of the Corporatio n or certain subsidiaries. The amount of
additional collateral required depends on the contract and is
usually a fixed incremen tal amount and/or the market value of the
exposure.
At December 31, 2021, the amount of collateral, calculated
based on the terms of the contracts, that the Corporation and
certain subsidiaries could be required to post to counterparties
but had not yet posted to counterparties was $2.3 billion,
including $1.4 billion for Bank of America, National Association
(BANA).
Some counterparties are currently able to unilaterally
terminate certain contracts, or the Corpora tion or certain
subsidiaries may be required to take other action such as find a
suitable replacement or obtain a guarantee. At December 31,
2021 and 2020, the liability recorded for these derivative
contracts was not significant.
The following table presents the amount of additional
collateral that would have been contractually required byderivative contracts and other trading agreements at
December 31, 2021 if the rating agencies had downgraded their
long-term senior debt ratings for the Corporation or certain
subsidiaries by one incremental notch and by an additional
second incremental notch. The table also presents derivative
liabilities that would be subject to unilateral termination by
counterparties upon downgrade of the Corporation's or certain
subsidiaries' long-term senior debt ratings.
Additional Collateral Required to be Posted and Derivative
Liabilities Subject to Unilateral T ermination Upon
Downgrade
at December 31, 2021
(Dollars in millions)One
incremental
 notchSecond
incremental
 notch
Additional collateral required to be
posted upon downgrade
Bank of America Corporation $ 316 $ 823 
Bank of America, N.A. and subsidiaries 75 646 
Derivative liabilities subject to
unilateral termination upon
downgrade
Derivative liabilities $ 32 $ 994 
Collateral posted 25 634 
Included in Bank of America Corporation collateral requirements in this table.
Valuation Adjustments on Derivatives
The Corporation records credit risk valuation adjustments on
derivatives in order to properly reflect the credit quality of the
counterparties and its own credit quality . The Corporation
calculates valuation adjustments on derivatives based on a
modeled expected exposure that incorporates current market risk
factors. The exposure also takes into consideration credit
mitigants such as enforceable master netting agreements and
collateral. CDS spread data is used to estimate the default
probabilities and severities that are applied to the exposures.
Where no observable credit default data is available for
counterparties, the Corporation uses proxies and other market
data to estimate default probabilities and severity .
The table below presents credit valuation adjustment (CVA),
DVA and FVA gains (losses) on derivatives (excluding the effect
of any related hedge activities), which are recorded in market
making and similar activities, for 2021, 2020 and 2019. CVA
gains reduce the cumulative CVA thereby increasing the
derivative assets balance. DVA gains increase  the cumulative
DVA thereby  decreasing  the derivative liabilities balance. CVA
and DVA losses have the opposite impact. FVA gains related to
derivative assets reduce  the cumulative FVA thereby increasing
the derivative assets balance. FVA gains related to derivative
liabilities increase the cumulative FVA thereby  decreasing the
derivative liabilities balance. FVA losses have the opposite
impact.
Valuation Adjustments Gains (Losses) on Derivatives
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Derivative assets (CVA) $ 208 $ (118)$ 72 
Derivative assets/liabilities (FVA) (2) (24) (2)
Derivative liabilities (DVA) 3 24 (147)
At Decem ber 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, cumulative CVA reduced the derivative assets balance
by $438 million, $646 million, and $528 million cumulative FVA reduced the net derivatives
balance by $179 million, $177 million and $153 million, and cumulative DVA reduced the
derivative liabilities balance by $ 312 million, $ 309 million and $ 285 million, respectively .(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
Bank of America 110
NOTE 4 Securities
The table below presen ts the amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses, and fair value of AFS debt securities, other debt
securities carried at fair value and HTM debt securities at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Debt Securities
Amortized
CostGross
Unrealized
GainsGross
Unrealized
LossesFair
ValueAmortized
CostGross
Unrealized
GainsGross
Unrealized
LossesFair
Value
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Available-for-sale debt securities
Mortgage-backed securities:
Agency $ 45,268 $ 1,257 $ (186)$ 46,339 $ 59,518 $ 2,370 $ (39)$ 61,849 
Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations 3,331 74 (25) 3,380 5,112 161 (13) 5,260 
Commercial 19,036 647 (79) 19,604 15,470 1,025 (4) 16,491 
Non-agency residential 591 25 (33) 583 899 127 (17) 1,009 
Total mortgage-backed securities 68,226 2,003 (323) 69,906 80,999 3,683 (73) 84,609 
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 197,853 1,610 (318) 199,145 114,157 2,236 (13) 116,380 
Non-U.S. securities 11,933 — — 11,933 14,009 15 (7) 14,017 
Other taxable securities 2,725 39 (3) 2,761 2,656 61 (6) 2,711 
Tax-exempt securities 15,155 317 (39) 15,433 16,417 389 (32) 16,774 
Total available-for-sale debt securities 295,892 3,969 (683) 299,178 228,238 6,384 (131) 234,491 
Other debt securities carried at fair value 8,873 105 (83) 8,895 11,720 429 (39) 12,110 
Total debt securities carried at fair value 304,765 4,074 (766) 308,073 239,958 6,813 (170) 246,601 
Held-to-maturity debt securities
Agency mortgage-backed securities 553,721 3,855 (10,366) 547,210 414,289 9,768 (36) 424,021 
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 111,859 254 (2,395) 109,718 16,084 — (71) 16,013 
Other taxable securities 9,011 147 (196) 8,962 7,906 327 (87) 8,146 
Total held-to-maturity debt securities 674,591 4,256 (12,957) 665,890 438,279 10,095 (194) 448,180 
Total debt securities $979,356 $ 8,330 $(13,723)$973,963 $678,237 $ 16,908 $ (364)$694,781 
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, the underlying collateral type included approximately 21 percent and 37 percent prime, 0 percent  and 2 percent Alt-A  and 79 percent and 61 percent subprime.
Primarily includes non-U.S. securities used to satisfy certain international regulatory requirements. Any changes in value are reported in market making and similar activities. For detail on the
components, see Note 20 – Fair V alue Measurements .
Includes securities pledged as collateral of $ 111.9  billion and $ 65.5 billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
The Corp oration held debt securities from FNMA  and FHLMC that each exceeded 10 percent of shareholders’  equity , with an amortized cost of $345.3  billion and $205.3  billion, and a fair value of
$342.5  billion and $ 202.4  billion at December 31, 2021, and an amortized cost of $ 260.1  billion and $ 118.1  billion, and a fair value of $ 267.5  billion and $ 120.7  billion at December 31, 2020.
At December 31, 2021, the accumulated net unrealized gain
on AFS debt securities , excluding the amount related to debt
securities previously transferred to held to maturity , included in
accumulated OCI was $2.5 billion, net of the relate d income tax
expense of $817 millio n. At December 31, 2021 and 2020,
nonperforming AFS debt securities held by the Corporation were
insignificant.
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Corporation had $268.5
billion and $200.0  billion  in AFS debt securities, which were
primarily U.S. agency and U.S. Treasury securities that have a
zero credit loss assumption. For the remaining $30.7 billion  and
$34.5 billion in AFS debt securities at December 31, 2021 and
2020, the amount of ECL was insignificant. Subs tantially all of the
Corporation's HTM debt securities consist of U.S. agency and
U.S. Treasury securities and have a zero credit loss assumption.
At Decembe r 31, 2021 and 2020, the Corporatio n held equity
securities at an aggreg ate fair value of $513 millio n and $769
million and other equity securities, as valued under themeasurement alternative, at a carrying value of $266 million and
$240 millio n, both of which are included in other assets. At
December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Corporation also held money
market inves tments at a fair value of $707 million and $1.6 billion,
which are included in time deposits placed and other short-term
investments.
The gross realized gains and losses on sales of AFS debt
securities for 2021, 2020 and 2019 are presented in the table
below .
Gains and Losses on Sales of AFS Debt Securities
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Gross gains $ 49 $ 423 $ 336 
Gross losses (27) (12) (119)
Net gains on sales of AFS debt
securities $ 22 $ 411 $ 217 
Income tax expense attributable to
realized net gains on sales of AFS debt
securities $ 5 $ 103 $ 54 (1)
(2)
(3,4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
111 Bank of America
The table below presents the fair value and the associated gross unrealized losses on AFS debt securities and whether these
securities have had gross unrealized losses for less than 12 months or for 12 months or longer at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Total AFS Debt Securities in a Continuous Unrealized Loss Position
Less than Twelve Months Twelve Months or Longer Total
Fair
ValueGross
 Unrealized
 LossesFair
ValueGross
 Unrealized
 LossesFair
ValueGross
 Unrealized
 Losses
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2021
Continuously unrealized loss-positioned AFS debt securities
Mortgage-backed securities:    
Agency $ 11,733 $ (166)$ 815 $ (20)$ 12,548 $ (186)
Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations 1,427 (22) 122 (3) 1,549 (25)
Commercial 3,451 (41) 776 (38) 4,227 (79)
Non-agency residential 241 (13) 174 (20) 415 (33)
Total mortgage-backed securities 16,852 (242) 1,887 (81) 18,739 (323)
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 103,307 (272) 4,850 (46) 108,157 (318)
Other taxable securities — — 82 (3) 82 (3)
Tax-exempt securities 502 (16) 109 (23) 611 (39)
Total AFS debt securities in a continuous
   unrealized loss position $ 120,661 $ (530)$ 6,928 $ (153)$ 127,589 $ (683)
December 31, 2020
Continuously unrealized loss-positioned AFS debt securities
Mortgage-backed securities:
Agency $ 2,841 $ (39)$ 2 $ — $ 2,843 $ (39)
Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations 187 (2) 364 (11) 551 (13)
Commercial 566 (4) 9 — 575 (4)
Non-agency residential 342 (9) 56 (8) 398 (17)
Total mortgage-backed securities 3,936 (54) 431 (19) 4,367 (73)
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 8,282 (9) 498 (4) 8,780 (13)
Non-U.S. securities 1,861 (6) 135 (1) 1,996 (7)
Other taxable securities 576 (2) 396 (4) 972 (6)
Tax-exempt securities 4,108 (29) 617 (3) 4,725 (32)
Total AFS debt securities in a continuous
   unrealized loss position $ 18,763 $ (100)$ 2,077 $ (31)$ 20,840 $ (131)
Bank of America 112
The remaining contractual maturity distribution and yields of the Corporation’ s debt securities carried at fair value and HTM debt
securities at December 31, 2021 are summarized in the table below . Actual duration and yields may differ as prepayments on the
loans underlying the MBS or other ABS are passed through to the Corporation.
Maturities of Debt Securities Carried at Fair Value and Held-to-maturity Debt Securities
Due in One
Year or LessDue after One Year
through Five YearsDue after Five Years
through T en YearsDue after
Ten Years Total
(Dollars in millions) Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield 
Amortized cost of debt securities carried at fair
value           
Mortgage-backed securities:           
Agency $ — — % $ 5 5.00 % $ 49 4.63 % $45,214  3.11 % $45,268  3.11 %
Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations — — — — 20 2.50 3,311  2.91 3,331  2.91 
Commercial 363 2.30 10,123  2.48 6,285  1.79 2,278  1.87 19,049  2.18 
Non-agency residential — — — — — — 1,112  6.43 1,112  6.43 
Total mortgage-backed securities 363 2.30 10,128  2.48 6,354  1.81 51,915  3.11 68,760  2.89 
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 6,564  1.22 39,875  1.80 151,962  1.20 27 2.61 198,428  1.32 
Non-U.S. securities 18,645  0.20 1,045  3.61 — — 7 9.15 19,697  0.38 
Other taxable securities 562 1.49 1,646  1.97 308 2.04 209 1.76 2,725  1.86 
Tax-exempt securities 2,485  1.06 6,520  1.42 3,105  1.81 3,045  1.46 15,155  1.45 
Total amortized cost of debt securities
carried at fair value $28,619  0.56 $59,214  1.89 $161,729  1.23 $55,203  3.02 $304,765  1.62 
Amortized cost of HTM debt securities
Agency mortgage-backed securities $ — — % $ — — % $ 4 2.00 % $553,717  2.13 % $553,721  2.13 %
U.S. Treasury and government agencies — — — — 111,859  1.35 — — 111,859  1.35 
Other taxable securities 37 5.31 1,035  2.21 473 2.66 7,466  2.51 9,011  2.50 
Total amortized cost of HTM debt
securities $ 37 5.31 $ 1,035  2.21 $112,336  1.35 $561,183  2.13 $674,591  2.00 
Debt securities carried at fair value           
Mortgage-backed securities:           
Agency $ —  $ 5  $ 53  $46,281   $46,339   
Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations —  —  20  3,360   3,380   
Commercial 366  10,562   6,379   2,310   19,617   
Non-agency residential —  4  —  1,164   1,168   
Total mortgage-backed securities 366 10,571  6,452  53,115  70,504  
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 6,614  40,912  152,168  26 199,720  
Non-U.S. securities 18,599   1,046   —  7  19,652   
Other taxable securities 566  1,676   310  212  2,764   
Tax-exempt securities 2,489   6,660   3,223   3,061   15,433   
Total debt securities carried at fair value $28,634   $60,865   $162,153   $56,421   $308,073   
Fair value of HTM debt securities
Agency mortgage-backed securities $ — $ — $ 4 $547,206  $547,210  
U.S. Treasury and government agencies — — 109,718  — 109,718  
Other taxable securities 37 1,060  483 7,382  8,962  
Total fair value of HTM debt securities $ 37 $ 1,060  $110,205  $554,588  $665,890  
The weighted-aver age yield is comp uted based on a constant effective interest rate over the contractual life of each security . The average yield considers the contractual coupon and the amortization
of premiums and accretion of discounts, excluding the ef fect of related hedging derivatives.(1) (1) (1) (1) (1)
(1)
113 Bank of America
NOTE 5  Outstanding Loans and Leases and Allowance for Credit Losses
The followin g tables present total outstanding loans and leases and an aging analysis for the Consumer Real Estate, Credit Card and
Other Consumer , and Commercial portfolio segments, by class of financing receivables, at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
30-59 Days
 Past Due 60-89 Days
 Past Due 90 Days or
More
Past Due Total Past
Due 30 Days
or MoreTotal
 Current or
 Less Than
 30 Days
 Past Due Loans
 Accounted
 for Under
 the Fair
 Value
 OptionTotal
Outstandings
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2021
Consumer real estate       
Residential mortgage $ 1,005 $ 297 $ 1,571 $ 2,873 $219,090 $ 221,963 
Home equity 123 69 369 561 27,374 27,935 
Credit card and other consumer
Credit card 298 212 487 997 80,441 81,438 
Direct/Indirect consumer 147 52 18 217 103,343 103,560 
Other consumer — — — — 190 190 
Total consumer 1,573 630 2,445 4,648 430,438 435,086 
Consumer loans accounted for under the fair
value option      $ 618 618 
Total consumer loans and leases 1,573 630 2,445 4,648 430,438 618 435,704 
Commercial
U.S. commercial 815 308 396 1,519 324,417 325,936 
Non-U.S. commercial 148 20 83 251 113,015 113,266 
Commercial real estate 115 34 285 434 62,575 63,009 
Commercial lease financing 104 28 13 145 14,680 14,825 
U.S. small business commercial 129 259 89 477 18,706 19,183 
Total commercial 1,311 649 866 2,826 533,393 536,219 
Commercial loans accounted for under the fair
value option      7,201 7,201 
Total commercial loans and leases 1,311 649 866 2,826 533,393 7,201 543,420 
Total loans and leases $ 2,884 $ 1,279 $ 3,311 $ 7,474 $963,831 $ 7,819 $ 979,124 
Percentage of outstandings 0.29 % 0.13 % 0.34 % 0.76 % 98.44 % 0.80 % 100.00 %
Consumer real estate loans 30-59 days past due includes fully-insured loans of $164 million and nonpe rforming loans of $118 million. Consumer real estate loans 60-89 days past due includes fully-
insured loans of $89 million and nonperforming loans of $100 million. Consumer real estate loans 90 days or more past due includes fully-insured loans of $633 million. Consumer real estate loans
current or less than 30 days past due includes $1.4 billion and direct/i ndirect consumer includes $55 million of nonperfo rming loans. For information on the Corporation's interest accrual policies and
delinquency status for loan modifications related to the pandemic, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles .
Total outstandings primarily includes auto and specialty lending loans and leases of $ 48.5 billion, U.S. securities-based lending loans of $ 51.1 billion and non-U.S. consumer loans of $ 3.0 billion.
Consumer loans accounted for unde r the fair value option includes residential mortgage loans of $279 million and home equity loans of $339 million. Commercial loans accounte d for under the fair
value option includes U.S. commerc ial loans of $4.6 billion and non-U. S. commercial loans of $2.6 billion. For more information, see Note 20 – Fair Value Measurements  and Note 21 – Fair Value
Option .
Total outstandings includes U.S. commercial real estate loans of $ 58.2 billion and non-U.S. commercial real estate loans of $ 4.8 billion.
Includes Paycheck Protection Program loans.
Total outstandings  includes loans and leases pledged as collateral of $13.0 billion. The Corpo ration also pledged $146.6  billion of loans with no related outstanding borrowings to secure potential
borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve Bank and Federal Home Loan Bank.(1) (1) (1) (1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(3)
(6)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
Bank of America 114
30-59 Days
Past Due 60-89 Days
 Past Due 90 Days or
More
Past Due Total Past
Due 30 Days
or MoreTotal
Current or
Less Than
30 Days
Past Due Loans
Accounted
for Under
the Fair
Value OptionTotal
Outstandings
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2020
Consumer real estate       
Residential mortgage $ 1,430 $ 297 $ 1,699 $ 3,426 $220,129 $ 223,555 
Home equity 154 78 345 577 33,734 34,311 
Credit card and other consumer      
Credit card 445 341 903 1,689 77,019  78,708 
Direct/Indirect consumer 209 67 37 313 91,050  91,363 
Other consumer — — — — 124  124 
Total consumer 2,238 783 2,984 6,005 422,056 428,061 
Consumer loans accounted for under the fair
value option $ 735 735 
Total consumer loans and leases 2,238 783 2,984 6,005 422,056 735 428,796 
Commercial        
U.S. commercial 561 214 512 1,287 287,441  288,728 
Non-U.S. commercial 61 44 11 116 90,344  90,460 
Commercial real estate 128 113 226 467 59,897  60,364 
Commercial lease financing 86 20 57 163 16,935  17,098 
U.S. small business commercial 84 56 123 263 36,206  36,469 
Total commercial 920 447 929 2,296 490,823  493,119 
Commercial loans accounted for under the fair
value option 5,946 5,946 
Total commercial loans and leases 920 447 929 2,296 490,823 5,946 499,065 
Total loans and leases $ 3,158 $ 1,230 $ 3,913 $ 8,301 $912,879 $ 6,681 $ 927,861 
Percentage of outstandings 0.34 % 0.13 % 0.42 % 0.89 % 98.39 % 0.72 % 100.00 %
Consumer real estate loans 30-59 days past due includes fully-insured loans of $225 million and nonpe rforming loans of $126 million. Consumer real estate loans 60-89 days past due includes fully-
insured loans of $103 million and nonperforming loans of $95 million. Consumer real estate loans 90 days or more past due includes fully-insured loans of $762 million. Consumer real estate loans
current or less than 30 days past due includes $1.2 billion and direct/i ndirect consumer includes $66 million of nonperfo rming loans. For information on the Corporation's interest accrual policies and
delinquency status for loan modifications related to the pandemic, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles.
Total outstandings primarily includes auto and specialty lending loans and leases of $ 46.4 billion, U.S. securities-based lending loans of $ 41.1 billion and non-U.S. consumer loans of $ 3.0 billion.
Consumer loans accounted for unde r the fair value option includes residential mortgage loans of $298 million and home equity loans of $437 million. Commercial loans accounte d for under the fair
value option includes U.S. commerc ial loans of $2.9 billion and non-U. S. commercial loans of $3.0 billion. For more information, see Note 20 – Fair Value Measurements  and Note 21 – Fair Value
Option .
Total outstandings includes U.S. commercial real estate loans of $ 57.2 billion and non-U.S. commercial real estate loans of $ 3.2 billion.
Includes Paycheck Protection Program loans.
Total outstandings  includes loans and leases pledged as collateral of $15.5 billion. The Corpo ration also pledged $153.1  billion of loans with no related outstanding borrowings to secure potential
borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve Bank and Federal Home Loan Bank.
The Corporation has entered into long-term credit protection
agreements with FNMA  and FHLMC on loans totaling $10.5
billion and $9.0 billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020, providin g
full credit protection on residential mortgage loans that become
severely delinquent. All of these loans are individually insured,
and therefore the Corporation does not record an allowance for
credit losses related to these loans.
Nonperforming Loans and Leases
Commercial nonperforming loans decreased to $1.6 billion  at
December 31, 2021 from $2.2 billion at December 31, 2020.
Consumer nonperforming loans increased to $ 3.0 billion atDecember 31, 2021 from $2.7 billion at December 31, 2020
driven by consumer real estate deferral activity .
The following table presents the Corporation’ s nonperforming
loans and leases including nonperforming TDRs, and loans
accruing past due 90 days or more at December 31, 2021 and
2020. Nonp erforming LHFS are excluded from nonperforming
loans and leases as they are recorded at either fair value or the
lower of cost or fair value. For more information on the criteria for
classification as nonperforming, see Note 1 – Summary of
Significant Accounting Principles.(1) (1) (1) (1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(3)
(6)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
115 Bank of America
Credit Quality
Nonperforming Loans
and LeasesAccruing Past Due
90 Days or More 
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2021 2020
Residential mortgage $ 2,284 $ 2,005 $ 634 $ 762 
With no related allowance 1,950 1,378 — — 
Home equity 630 649 — — 
With no related allowance 414 347 — — 
Credit Card                      n/a               n/a 487 903 
Direct/indirect consumer 75 71 11 33 
Total consumer 2,989 2,725 1,132 1,698 
U.S. commercial 825 1,243 171 228 
Non-U.S. commercial 268 418 19 10 
Commercial real estate 382 404 40 6 
Commercial lease financing 80 87 8 25 
U.S. small business commercial 23 75 87 115 
Total commercial 1,578 2,227 325 384 
Total nonperforming loans $ 4,567 $ 4,952 $ 1,457 $ 2,082 
Percentage of outstanding loans and leases 0.47 % 0.54 % 0.15 % 0.23 %
For information on the Corporation's interest accrual policies and delinquency status for loan modifications related to the pandemic, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles..
Residential mortgage loans accruing past due 90 days or more are fully- insured loans. At December 31, 2021 and 2020 residential mortgage includes $444 million and $537 million of loans on which
interest had been curtailed by the FHA, and therefore were no longer accruing interest, although principal was still insured, and $190 million and $225 million of loans on which interest was still
accruing.
Primarily relates to loans for which the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral less any costs to sell is greater than the amortized cost of the loans as of the reporting date.
n/a = not applicable
Credit Quality Indicators
The Corporation monitors credit quality within its Consumer Real
Estate, Credit Card and Other Consumer , and Commercial
portfolio segments based on primary credit quality indicators. For
more information on the portfolio segments, see Note 1 –
Summary of Significant Accounting Princip les. Within the
Consumer Real Estate  portfolio segment, the primary credit
quality indicators are refreshed LTV and refreshed Fair Isaac
Corporation (FICO) score. Refreshed LTV meas ures the carrying
value of the loan as a percentage of the value of the property
securing the loan, refreshed quarterly . Home equity loans are
evaluated using combined loan-to-value (CLTV), which measures
the carrying value of the Corporation’ s loan and available line of
credit combined with any outstanding senior liens against the
property as a percentag e of the value of the property securing
the loan, refreshed quarterly . FICO score measures the
creditworthiness of the borrower based on the financial
obligations of the borrower and the borrower ’s credit history .
FICO scores are typically refreshed quarterly or more frequently .
Certain borrowers (e.g., borrowers that have had debts
discharged in a bankruptcy proceeding) may not have their FICO
scores updated. FICO scores are also a primary credit qualityindicator for the Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio
segment and the business card portfolio within U.S. small
business commercial. Within the Commercial portfolio segment,
loans are evaluated using the internal classifications of pass
rated or reservable criticized as the primary credit quality
indicators. The term reservable criticized refers to those
commercial loans that are internally classified or listed by the
Corporation as Special Mention, Substandard or Doubtful, which
are asset quality categories defined by regulatory authorities.
These assets have an elevated level of risk and may have a high
probability of default or total loss. Pass rated refers to all loans
not considered reservable criticized. In addition to these primary
credit quality indicators, the Corporation uses other credit quality
indicators for certain types of loans.
The following tables present certain credit quality indicators
for the Corporation's Consumer Real Estate, Credit Card and
Other Consumer , and Commercial portfolio segments by class of
financing receivables and year of origination for term loan
balances at December 31, 2021, including revolving loans that
converted to term loans without an additional credit decision after
origination or through a TDR.(1)
 (2)
(3)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
Bank of America 116
Residential Mortgage – Credit Quality Indicators By Vintage
Term Loans by Origination Year
(Dollars in millions)Total as of
December 31,
 2021 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 Prior
Total Residential Mortgage
Refreshed LTV    
Less than or equal to 90 percent $ 206,562 $ 87,051 $ 43,597 $ 23,205 $ 7,392 $ 10,956 $ 34,361 
Greater than 90 percent but less than or equal to 100
percent 1,938 1,401 331 81 17 14 94 
Greater than 100 percent 759 520 112 29 11 12 75 
Fully-insured loans 12,704 3,845 3,486 1,150 216 235 3,772 
Total Residential Mortgage $ 221,963 $ 92,817 $ 47,526 $ 24,465 $ 7,636 $ 11,217 $ 38,302 
Total Residential Mortgage
Refreshed FICO score
Less than 620 $ 2,451 $ 636 $ 442 $ 140 $ 120 $ 104 $ 1,009 
Greater than or equal to 620 and less than 680 5,199 1,511 1,123 477 294 307 1,487 
Greater than or equal to 680 and less than 740 24,532 8,822 5,454 2,785 1,057 1,434 4,980 
Greater than or equal to 740 177,077 78,003 37,021 19,913 5,949 9,137 27,054 
Fully-insured loans 12,704 3,845 3,486 1,150 216 235 3,772 
Total Residential Mortgage $ 221,963 $ 92,817 $ 47,526 $ 24,465 $ 7,636 $ 11,217 $ 38,302 
Home Equity - Credit Quality Indicators
TotalHome Equity
Loans and
Reverse
Mortgages Revolving
LoansRevolving
Loans
Converted to
Term Loans
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2021
Total Home Equity
Refreshed LTV    
Less than or equal to 90 percent $ 27,594 $ 1,773 $ 19,095 $ 6,726 
Greater than 90 percent but less than or equal to 100 percent 130 55 34 41 
Greater than 100 percent 211 85 54 72 
Total Home Equity $ 27,935 $ 1,913 $ 19,183 $ 6,839 
Total Home Equity
Refreshed FICO score
Less than 620 $ 893 $ 244 $ 209 $ 440 
Greater than or equal to 620 and less than 680 1,434 222 495 717 
Greater than or equal to 680 and less than 740 4,625 468 2,493 1,664 
Greater than or equal to 740 20,983 979 15,986 4,018 
Total Home Equity $ 27,935 $ 1,913 $ 19,183 $ 6,839 
Includes reverse mortgages of $ 1.3 billion and home equity loans of $ 582 million which are no longer originated.
Credit Card and Direct/Indirect Consumer – Credit Quality Indicators By Vintage
Direct/Indirect
Term Loans by Origination Year Credit Card
(Dollars in millions)Total Direct/
Indirect as of
December 31,
 2021Revolving
Loans 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 PriorTotal Credit
Card as of
December 31,
 2021Revolving
LoansRevolving
Loans
Converted
to Term
Loans 
Refreshed FICO score   
Less than 620 $ 685 $ 13 $ 179 $ 115 $ 129 $ 79 $ 101 $ 69 $ 3,017  $ 2,857  $ 160 
Greater than or equal to 620
and less than 680 2,313  14 1,170  414 313 148 134 120 9,264  9,064  200 
Greater than or equal to 680
and less than 740 8,530  60 4,552  1,659  1,126  466 314 353 28,347  28,155  192 
Greater than or equal to 740 37,164  94 15,876  8,642  6,465  2,679  1,573  1,835  40,810  40,762  48 
Other internal credit
   metrics 54,868  54,173  283 53 77 75 63 144 — — — 
Total credit card and other
   consumer $ 103,560  $54,354  $22,060  $10,883  $ 8,110  $ 3,447  $ 2,185  $ 2,521  $ 81,438  $80,838  $ 600 
Represents TDRs that were modified into term loans.
Other internal credit metrics may include delinquency status, geography or other factors.
Direct/indirect consumer includes $54.2 billion of securitie s-based lending which is typically supported by highly liquid collateral with market value greater than or equal to the outstanding loan
balance and therefore has minimal credit risk at December 31, 2021.(1)
(1)
(1)
(2,3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
117 Bank of America
Commercial – Credit Quality Indicators By Vintage 
Term Loans
Amortized Cost Basis by Origination Year
(Dollars in millions)Total as of
December 31,
 2021 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 PriorRevolving
Loans
U.S. Commercial
Risk ratings     
Pass rated $ 315,618 $ 55,862 $ 25,012 $ 23,373 $ 11,439 $ 10,426 $ 23,877 $165,629 
Reservable criticized 10,318 598 687 1,308 1,615 514 1,072 4,524 
Total U.S. Commercial $ 325,936 $ 56,460 $ 25,699 $ 24,681 $ 13,054 $ 10,940 $ 24,949 $170,153 
Non-U.S. Commercial
Risk ratings
Pass rated $ 110,787 $ 25,749 $ 8,703 $ 7,133 $ 4,521 $ 3,016 $ 3,062 $ 58,603 
Reservable criticized 2,479 223 324 487 275 257 216 697 
Total Non-U.S. Commercial $ 113,266 $ 25,972 $ 9,027 $ 7,620 $ 4,796 $ 3,273 $ 3,278 $ 59,300 
Commercial Real Estate
Risk ratings
Pass rated $ 55,511 $ 14,402 $ 7,244 $ 11,237 $ 5,710 $ 3,326 $ 6,831 $ 6,761 
Reservable criticized 7,498 277 990 2,237 1,710 596 1,464 224 
Total Commercial Real Estate $ 63,009 $ 14,679 $ 8,234 $ 13,474 $ 7,420 $ 3,922 $ 8,295 $ 6,985 
Commercial Lease Financing
Risk ratings
Pass rated $ 14,438 $ 3,280 $ 2,485 $ 2,427 $ 2,030 $ 1,741 $ 2,475 $ — 
Reservable criticized 387 25 18 91 67 48 138 — 
Total Commercial Lease Financing $ 14,825 $ 3,305 $ 2,503 $ 2,518 $ 2,097 $ 1,789 $ 2,613 $ — 
U.S. Small Business Commercial 
Risk ratings
Pass rated $ 11,618 $ 4,257 $ 2,922 $ 1,059 $ 763 $ 623 $ 1,853 $ 141 
Reservable criticized 433 12 29 91 87 64 147 3 
Total U.S. Small Business Commercial $ 12,051 $ 4,269 $ 2,951 $ 1,150 $ 850 $ 687 $ 2,000 $ 144 
 Total $ 529,087 $104,685 $ 48,414 $ 49,443 $ 28,217 $ 20,611 $ 41,135 $236,582 
 Excludes $ 7.2 billion of loans accounted for under the fair value option at December 31, 2021.
     Includes $ 16 million of loans that converted from revolving to term loans.
     Excludes U.S. Small Business Card loans of $7.1 billion. Refreshed  FICO scores for this portfolio are $192 million for less than 620; $618 million for greater than or equal to 620 and less than 680;
$1.9 billion for greater than or equal to 680 and less than 740; and $ 4.4 billion greater than or equal to 740.(1, 2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
Bank of America 118
The following tables present certain credit quality indicators for the Corporation's Consumer Real Estate, Credit Card and Other
Consumer , and Comme rcial portfolio segments by class of financing receivables and year of origination for term loan balances at
December 31, 2020, including revolving loans that converted to term loans without an addition al credit decision after origination or
through a TDR.
Residential Mortgage – Credit Quality Indicators By Vintage
Term Loans by Origination Year
(Dollars in millions)Total as of
 December 31,
 2020 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Prior
Total Residential Mortgage
Refreshed LTV
Less than or equal to 90 percent $ 207,389 $ 68,907 $ 43,771 $ 14,658 $ 21,589 $ 22,967 $ 35,497 
Greater than 90 percent but less than or equal to 100
percent 3,138 1,970 684 128 70 96 190 
Greater than 100 percent 1,210 702 174 47 39 37 211 
Fully-insured loans 11,818 3,826 2,014 370 342 1,970 3,296 
Total Residential Mortgage $ 223,555 $ 75,405 $ 46,643 $ 15,203 $ 22,040 $ 25,070 $ 39,194 
Total Residential Mortgage
Refreshed FICO score
Less than 620 $ 2,717 $ 823 $ 177 $ 139 $ 170 $ 150 $ 1,258 
Greater than or equal to 620 and less than 680 5,462 1,804 666 468 385 368 1,771 
Greater than or equal to 680 and less than 740 25,349 8,533 4,679 1,972 2,427 2,307 5,431 
Greater than or equal to 740 178,209 60,419 39,107 12,254 18,716 20,275 27,438 
Fully-insured loans 11,818 3,826 2,014 370 342 1,970 3,296 
Total Residential Mortgage $ 223,555 $ 75,405 $ 46,643 $ 15,203 $ 22,040 $ 25,070 $ 39,194 
Home Equity - Credit Quality Indicators
TotalHome Equity
Loans and
Reverse
Mortgages Revolving
LoansRevolving
Loans
Converted to
Term Loans
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2020
Total Home Equity
Refreshed LTV
Less than or equal to 90 percent $ 33,447 $ 1,919 $ 22,639 $ 8,889 
Greater than 90 percent but less than or equal to 100 percent 351 126 94 131 
Greater than 100 percent 513 172 118 223 
Total Home Equity $ 34,311 $ 2,217 $ 22,851 $ 9,243 
Total Home Equity
Refreshed FICO score
Less than 620 $ 1,082 $ 250 $ 244 $ 588 
Greater than or equal to 620 and less than 680 1,798 263 568 967 
Greater than or equal to 680 and less than 740 5,762 556 2,905 2,301 
Greater than or equal to 740 25,669 1,148 19,134 5,387 
Total Home Equity $ 34,311 $ 2,217 $ 22,851 $ 9,243 
Includes reverse mortgages of $ 1.3 billion and home equity loans of $ 885 million which are no longer originated.(1)
(1)
119 Bank of America
Credit Card and Direct/Indirect Consumer – Credit Quality Indicators By Vintage
Direct/Indirect
Term Loans by Origination Year Credit Card
(Dollars in millions)Total
Direct/Indirect
as of December
31, 2020Revolving
Loans 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 PriorTotal Credit
Card as of
December 31,
2020Revolving
LoansRevolving
Loans
Converted
to Term
Loans 
Refreshed FICO score
Less than 620 $ 959 $ 19 $ 111 $ 200 $ 175 $ 243 $ 148 $ 63 $ 4,018  $ 3,832  $ 186 
Greater than or equal to 620
and less than 680 2,143  20 653 559 329 301 176 105 9,419  9,201  218 
Greater than or equal to 680
and less than 740 7,431  80 2,848  2,015  1,033  739 400 316 27,585  27,392  193 
Greater than or equal to 740 36,064  120 12,540  10,588  5,869  3,495  1,781  1,671  37,686  37,642  44 
Other internal credit
   metrics 44,766  44,098  74 115 84 67 52 276 — — — 
Total credit card and other
   consumer $ 91,363  $44,337  $16,226  $13,477  $ 7,490  $ 4,845  $ 2,557  $ 2,431  $ 78,708  $78,067  $ 641 
Represents TDRs that were modified into term loans.
Other internal credit metrics may include delinquency status, geography or other factors.
Direct/indirect consumer includes $44.1 billion of securitie s-based lending which is typically supported by highly liquid collateral with market value greater than or equal to the outstanding loan
balance and therefore has minimal credit risk at December 31, 2020.
Commercial – Credit Quality Indicators By Vintage 
Term Loans
Amortized Cost Basis by Origination Year
(Dollars in millions)Total as of
December 31,
2020 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 PriorRevolving
Loans
U.S. Commercial
Risk ratings     
Pass rated $ 268,812 $ 33,456 $ 33,305 $ 17,363 $ 14,102 $ 7,420 $ 21,784 $141,382 
Reservable criticized 19,916 2,524 2,542 2,689 854 698 1,402 9,207 
Total U.S. Commercial $ 288,728 $ 35,980 $ 35,847 $ 20,052 $ 14,956 $ 8,118 $ 23,186 $150,589 
Non-U.S. Commercial
Risk ratings
Pass rated $ 85,914 $ 16,301 $ 11,396 $ 7,451 $ 5,037 $ 1,674 $ 2,194 $ 41,861 
Reservable criticized 4,546 914 572 492 436 138 259 1,735 
Total Non-U.S. Commercial $ 90,460 $ 17,215 $ 11,968 $ 7,943 $ 5,473 $ 1,812 $ 2,453 $ 43,596 
Commercial Real Estate
Risk ratings
Pass rated $ 50,260 $ 8,429 $ 14,126 $ 8,228 $ 4,599 $ 3,299 $ 6,542 $ 5,037 
Reservable criticized 10,104 933 2,558 2,115 1,582 606 1,436 874 
Total Commercial Real Estate $ 60,364 $ 9,362 $ 16,684 $ 10,343 $ 6,181 $ 3,905 $ 7,978 $ 5,911 
Commercial Lease Financing
Risk ratings
Pass rated $ 16,384 $ 3,083 $ 3,242 $ 2,956 $ 2,532 $ 1,703 $ 2,868 $ — 
Reservable criticized 714 117 117 132 81 88 179 — 
Total Commercial Lease Financing $ 17,098 $ 3,200 $ 3,359 $ 3,088 $ 2,613 $ 1,791 $ 3,047 $ — 
U.S. Small Business Commercial 
Risk ratings
Pass rated $ 28,786 $ 24,539 $ 1,121 $ 837 $ 735 $ 527 $ 855 $ 172 
Reservable criticized 1,148 76 239 210 175 113 322 13 
Total U.S. Small Business Commercial $ 29,934 $ 24,615 $ 1,360 $ 1,047 $ 910 $ 640 $ 1,177 $ 185 
 Total $ 486,584 $ 90,372 $ 69,218 $ 42,473 $ 30,133 $ 16,266 $ 37,841 $200,281 
 Excludes $ 5.9 billion of loans accounted for under the fair value option at December 31, 2020.
     Includes $ 58 million of loans that converted from revolving to term loans.
     Excludes U.S. Small Business Card loans of $6.5 billion. Refreshed  FICO scores for this portfolio are $265 million for less than 620; $582 million for greater than or equal to 620 and less than 680;
$1.7 billion for greater than or equal to 680 and less than 740; and $ 3.9 billion greater than or equal to 740.(1)
(2, 3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(1, 2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
Bank of America 120
During 2021, commercial credit quality show ed signs of
stabilization as the econ omy continued to recover. Commercial
reservable criticized utilized exposure decreased to $22.4 billion
at December 31, 2021 from $38.7 billion (to 3.91 percent from
7.31 percent of total commercial reservable utilized exposure) at
December 31, 2020, which was broad-based across industries.
Consumer Real Estate
Modifications of consumer real estate loans are classified as
TDRs when the borrower is experiencing financial difficulties and
a concession has been granted. Concessio ns may include
reductions in interest rates, capitalization of past due amounts,
principal and/or interest forbearance, payment extensions,
principal and/or interes t forgiveness, or comb inations thereof.
Prior to perm anently modifying a loan, the Corporation may enter
into trial modifications with certain borrowers under both
government and proprietary programs. Trial modifications
generally represent a three- to four-month period during which
the borrowe r makes monthly payments under  the anticipated
modified payment terms. Upon successful completion of the trial
period, the Corporation and the borrower enter into a permanent
modification. Binding trial modifications are classified as TDRs
when the trial of fer is made and continue to
be classified as TDRs regardless of whether the borrower enters
into a permanent modification.
Consumer real estate loans of $306 million that have been
discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy with no change inrepayment terms and not reaffirmed by the borrower were
included in TDRs at December 31, 2021, of which $87 million
were classifi ed as nonperforming and $55 million were loans fully
insured.
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, remaining commitments to
lend additional funds to debtors whose terms have been modified
in a consumer real estate TDR were not significant. Consumer
real estate foreclosed properties totaled $101 million and $123
million at December 31, 2021 and 2020. The carrying value of
consumer real estate loans, including fully-in sured loans, for
which formal foreclosure proceedings were in process at
December 31, 2021 and 2020 was $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion.
During 2021 and 2020, the Corporation reclassified $64 million
and $182 million of consumer real estate loans, to foreclosed
properties or, for properties acquired upon foreclosure of certain
government-guaranteed loans (principally FHA-i nsured loans), to
other assets . The reclassifications represent non-cash investing
activities and, accordingly , are not reflected in the Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows.
The table below presen ts the December 31, 2021, 2020 and
2019 unpaid principal balance, carrying value, and average pre-
and post-modification interest rates of consumer real estate loans
that were modified in TDRs during 2021, 2020 and 2019. The
following Consumer Real Estate portfolio segment tables include
loans that were initially classified as TDRs during the period and
also loans that had previously been classified as TDRs and were
modified again during the period.
Consumer Real Estate – TDRs Entered into During 2021, 2020 and 2019
Unpaid
Principal
BalanceCarrying
ValuePre-Modification
Interest RatePost-
Modification
Interest Rate 
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2021
Residential mortgage $ 891 $ 788 3.48 % 3.38 %
Home equity 107 77 3.60 3.59 
Total $ 998 $ 865 3.49 3.41 
December 31, 2020
Residential mortgage $ 732 $ 646 3.66 % 3.59 %
Home equity 87 69 3.67 3.61 
Total $ 819 $ 715 3.66 3.59 
December 31, 2019
Residential mortgage $ 464 $ 377 4.19 % 4.13 %
Home equity 141 101 5.04 4.31 
Total $ 605 $ 478 4.39 4.17 
The post-modification interest rate reflects the interest rate applicable only to permanently completed modifications, which exclude loans that are in a trial modification period.(1)
(1)
121 Bank of America
The table below present s the December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 carrying value for consumer real estate loans that were modified
in a TDR during 2021, 2020 and 2019, by type of modification.
Consumer Real Estate – Modification Programs
TDRs Entered into During
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Modifications under government programs $ 4 $ 13 $ 35 
Modifications under proprietary programs 774 570 174 
Loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy 33 53 68 
Trial modifications 54 79 201 
Total modifications $ 865 $ 715 $ 478 
Includes loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy with no change in repayment terms that are classified as TDRs.
The table below present s the carrying value of consumer real estate loans that entered into payment default during 2021, 2020 and
2019 that were modified in a TDR during the 12 months preceding payment default. A payment default for consumer real estate TDRs
is recognized when a borrower has missed three  monthly payments (not necessarily consecutively) since modification.
Consumer Real Estate – TDRs Entering Payment Default that were Modified During the Preceding 12 Months
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Modifications under government programs $ 4 $ 16 $ 2
Modifications under proprietary programs 128 51 8
Loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy 9 19 3
Trial modifications 19 54 5
Total modifications $ 160 $ 140 $ 20
Includes loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy with no change in repayment terms that are classified as TDRs.
Includes trial modification of fers to which the customer did not respond.
Credit Card and Other Consumer
The Corporation seeks to assist customers who are experiencing
financial difficulty by modifying loans while ensuring compliance
with federal and local laws and guidelines. Cred it card and other
consumer loan modifications generally involve reducing the
interest rate on the account, placing the customer on a fixed
payment plan not exceeding 60 months and canceling the
customer ’s available line of credit, all of which  are considered
TDRs. The Corporation makes loan modifications directly with
borrowers for debt held only by the Corporation (internal
programs). Additionally , the Corporation makes loan
modifications for borrowers working with third-party renegotiationagencies that provide solutions to customers’  entire unsecured
debt structu res (externa l programs). The Corp oration classifies
other secured consumer loans that have been discharged in
Chapter 7 bankruptcy as TDRs, which are written down to
collateral value and placed on nonaccrual status no later than the
time of discharge.
The table below provides information on the Corporation’ s
Credit Card and Other Consumer TDR portfolio including the
December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 unpaid principal balance,
carrying value, and average pre- and post-mod ification interest
rates of loans that were modified in TDRs during  2021, 2020 and
2019.
Credit Card and Other Consumer – TDRs Entered into During 2021, 2020 and 2019
 Unpaid
Principal
BalanceCarrying
Value Pre-
Modification
Interest RatePost-
Modification
Interest Rate
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2021
Credit card $ 237 $ 248 18.45 % 4.09 %
Direct/Indirect consumer 23 16 5.88 5.88 
Total $ 260 $ 264 17.68 4.20 
December 31, 2020
Credit card $ 269 $ 277 18.16 % 5.63 %
Direct/Indirect consumer 52 37 5.83 5.83 
Total $ 321 $ 314 16.70 5.65 
December 31, 2019
Credit card $ 340 $ 355 19.18 % 5.35 %
Direct/Indirect consumer 40 21 5.23 5.21 
Total $ 380 $ 376 18.42 5.34 
Includes accrued interest and fees.(1)
(1)
(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
(1)
(1)
Bank of America 122
The table below present s the December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 carrying value for Credit Card and Other Consumer loans that
were modified in a TDR during 2021, 2020 and 2019, by program type.
Credit Card and Other Consumer – TDRs by Program Type at December 31 
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Internal programs $ 214 $ 225 $ 247 
External programs 44 73 108 
Other 6 16 21 
Total $ 264 $ 314 $ 376 
Includes accrued interest and fees.
Credit card and other consumer loans are deemed to be in
payment default during the quarter in which a borrower misses
the second of two consecutive payments. Payment defaults are
one of the factors considered when projecting future cash flows
in the calculation of the allowance for loan and lease losses for
credit card and other consumer . Based on historical experience,
the Corporation estimates that 10 perce nt of new credit card
TDRs and 18 percent of new direct/indirect consumer TDRs may
be in payment default within 12 months after modification.
Commercial Loans
Modifications of loans to commercial borrowers that are
experiencing financial difficulty are designed to reduce the
Corporation’ s loss exposure while providing the borrower with an
opportunity to work through financial difficulties, often to avoid
foreclosure or bankruptcy . Each modification is unique and
reflects the individual circumstances of the borrower .
Modifications that result in a TDR may include extensions of
maturity at a concessionary (below market) rate of interest,
payment forbearances or other actions designed to benefit the
borrower while mitigating the Corporation’ s risk exposure.
Reductions in interest rates are rare. Instead, the interest rates
are typically increased, although the increased rate may not
represent a market rate of interest. Infrequently , concessions
may also include principal forgiveness in connection with
foreclosure, short sale or other settlement agreements leading to
termination or sale of the loan.
At the time of restructuring, the loans are remeasured to
reflect the impact, if any, on projected cash flows resulting from
the modified  terms. If a portion of the loan is deemed to be
uncollectible, a charge-of f may be recorded at the time of
restructuring. Alternative ly, a charge-of f may have already been
recorded in a previous period such that no charge-of f is required
at the time of modification.
During 2021, the carrying value of the Corporation’ s
commercial loans that were modified as TDRs  was $1.3 billion
compared to $ 1.2 billion and $ 1.7 billion for 2020 and 2019. AtDecember 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, the Corporation had
commitments to lend $283 million , $402 million  and $445 million
to commercial borrowers whose loans were classified as TDRs.
The balance of commer cial TDRs in payment default was $262
million, $218 million and $207 million at December 31, 2021,
2020 and 2019.
Loans Held-for-sale
The Corpora tion had LHFS of $15.6 billion and $9.2 billion at
December 31, 2021 and 2020. Cash and non-cash proceeds
from sales and paydowns of loans originally classified as LHFS
were $43.6 billion, $20.1 billion and $30.6 billion for 2021, 2020
and 2019, respectively . Cash used for originations and purchases
of LHFS totaled $37.3 billion, $19.7 billion and $28.9 billion for
2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively .
Accrued Interest Receivable
Accrued interest receivable for loans and leases and loans held-
for-sale at December 31, 2021 and 2020 was $2.2 billion and
$2.4 billion and is reported in customer and other receivables on
the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Outstanding credit card loan balances include unpaid
principal, interest and fees. Credit card loans are not classified as
nonperforming but are charged off no later than the end of the
month in which the account becomes 180 days past due, within
60 days after receipt of notification of death or bankruptcy , or
upon confirmation of fraud . During 2021 and 2020, the
Corporation reversed $446 million and $512 million of interest
and fee income against the income statement line item in which it
was originally recorded upon charge-of f of the principal balance
of the loan .
For the outstanding residential mortgage, home equity ,
direct/indirect consumer and commercial loan balances classified
as nonperforming during 2021 and 2020, interes t and fee income
reversed at the time the loans were classified as nonperforming
was not significant. For more information on the Corporation's
nonperforming loan policies, see Note 1 – Summary of
Significant Accounting Principles .(1)
(1) 
123 Bank of America
Allowance for Credit Losses
On January 1, 2020, the Corporation adopted the new
accounting standard that requires the measurement of the
allowance for credit losses to be based on management’ s best
estimate of lifetime ECL inherent in the Corporation’ s relevant
financial assets. Upon adoption of the new accounting standard,
the Corporation recorded a $3.3 billion, or 32 percent, increase in
the allowance for credit  losses on January 1, 2020, which was
comprised of a net increase of $2.9 billion in the allowance  for
loan and lease losses and a $310 million increase in the reserve
for unfunded lending commitments. The net increase in the
allowance for loan and lease losses was primarily driven by a
$3.1 billion increase in credit card as the Corporation now
reserves for the life of these receivables. The increase in the
reserve for unfunded lending commitments included $119 million
in the consumer portfolio  for the undrawn portion of HELOCs and
$191 million in the commercia l portfolio. For more information on
the Corpora tion's credit  loss accounting policies including the
allowance for credit losses see Note 1 – Summary of Significant
Accounting Principles .
The allowance for credit losses is estimated using quantitative
and qualitative methods that consider a variety  of factors, such
as historical  loss experience, the current credit quality of the
portfolio and an econo mic outlook over the life of the loan.
Qualitative reserves cover losses that are expe cted but, in the
Corporation's assessme nt, may not be adequately reflected in
the quantitative methods or the economic assumptions. The
Corporation incorporates  forward-looking information through the
use of several macroeconomic scenarios in determining the
weighted economic outlook over the forecasted life of the assets.
These scenarios include key macroeconomic variables such as
gross domestic product, unemployment rate, real estate prices
and corpora te bond spreads. The scenarios that are chosen each
quarter and the weightin g given to each scenario depend on a
variety of factors including recent economic events, leading
economic indicators, internal and third-party economist views,
and industry trends.
The December 31, 2021 estimate for allowance for credit
losses was based on various economic outlooks that included a
baseline scenario, which is derived from consensus estimates, a
downside scenario that assumed a significant ly longer period
until full economic recovery , a tail risk scenario similar to the
severely adverse scenario used in stress testin g, a scenario to
account for inflationary risk and higher intere st rates and an
upside scen ario to consider the potential for improvement in the
consensus outlooks. The weighted economic outlook assumes
that the U.S. average unemployment rate will be just above five
percent by the fourth quarter of 2022 and slowly declines to just
under five percent by the fourth quarter of 2023. Additionally , inthis economic outlook, U.S. gross domestic product is forecasted
to grow at 2.1 percent and 1.9 percent year-over-year  in the
fourth quarters of 2022 and 2023. For comparison, as of
December 31, 2020, the weighted macroeconomic outlook for the
U.S. average unemployment rate was forecasted at 6.6 percent,
5.5 percent and 5.0 percent in the fourth quarters of 2021, 2022
and 2023, respectively , and the weighted macroeconomic outlook
for U.S. GDP  was forecasted to grow at 2.5 perce nt, 2.4 percent
and 2.1 percent year-over-year in the fourth quarters of 2021,
2022 and 2023, respectively . The allowance for credit losses
considered the impact of enacted government stimulus measures
and continued to facto r in the uncertainty resulting from the
unprecedented nature of the current public healt h crisis and risks
that may prevent a full economic recovery .
While there has been improvement across the U.S. economy ,
the Corporation continues to factor into its allowance for credit
losses an estimated impact from higher-risk  segments that
included leveraged loans and industries such as travel and
entertainment, which have been adversely impacted by the
effects of the pandemic.
The allowan ce for credit losses at December 31, 2021 was
$13.8 billion, a decrease of $6.8 billion compared to
December 31, 2020. The decrease in the allowance for credit
losses was primarily driven by improvements in the
macroeconomic outlook and credit quality . The change in the
allowance for credit losses was comprised of a net decrease of
$6.4 billion in the allowance for loan and lease losses  and a $422
million decrease in the reserve for unfunded lending
commitments. The decrease in the allowance for credit losses
was attributed to $342 millio n in the consumer real estate
portfolio, $2.7 billion  in the credit card and other consumer
portfolio, and $3.8 billion in the commercial portfolio. Similarly ,
the provision  for credit losses improved $15.9 billion to a benefit
of $4.6 billion in 2021 compared to provision expense of $11.3
billion and $3.6 billion in 2020 and 2019. The benefit in 2021 was
primarily driven by improvements in the macroe conomic outlook
and credit quality .
Outstanding loans and leases excluding loans accounted for
under the fair value option increased $50.1 billion in 2021 driven
by commercial loans, which increased $60.4 billion, excluding
small business, primarily driven by Global Markets . Consumer
loans increased $7.0 billion primarily driven by securities-based
lending, partially offset by lower consumer real estate due to
prepayments in a low rate environment.
The change s in the allowance for credit losses, including net
charge-of fs and provision for loan and lease losses, are detailed
in the following table.
Bank of America 124
Consumer
Real EstateCredit Card and
 Other Consumer Commercial Total
(Dollars in millions) 2021
Allowance for loan and lease losses, January 1 $ 858 $ 9,213 $ 8,731 $ 18,802 
Loans and leases charged off (78) (3,000) (719) (3,797)
Recoveries of loans and leases previously charged off 225 1,006 323 1,554 
Net charge-offs 147 (1,994) (396) (2,243)
Provision for loan and lease losses (449) (744) (2,980) (4,173)
Other 1 1 (1) 1 
Allowance for loan and lease losses, December 31 557 6,476 5,354 12,387 
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, January 1 137 — 1,741 1,878 
Provision for unfunded lending commitments (41) — (380) (421)
Other — — (1) (1)
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, December 31 96 — 1,360 1,456 
Allowance for credit losses, December 31 $ 653 $ 6,476 $ 6,714 $ 13,843 
2020
Allowance for loan and lease losses, January 1 $ 440 $ 7,430 $ 4,488 $ 12,358 
Loans and leases charged off (98) (3,646) (1,675) (5,419)
Recoveries of loans and leases previously charged off 201 891 206 1,298 
Net charge-offs 103 (2,755) (1,469) (4,121)
Provision for loan and lease losses 307 4,538 5,720 10,565 
Other 8 — (8) — 
Allowance for loan and lease losses, December 31 858 9,213 8,731 18,802 
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, January 1 119 — 1,004 1,123 
Provision for unfunded lending commitments 18 — 737 755 
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, December 31 137 — 1,741 1,878 
Allowance for credit losses, December 31 $ 995 $ 9,213 $ 10,472 $ 20,680 
2019
Allowance for loan and lease losses, January 1 $ 928 $ 3,874 $ 4,799 $ 9,601 
Loans and leases charged off (522) (4,302) (822) (5,646)
Recoveries of loans and leases previously charged off 927 911 160 1,998 
Net charge-offs 405 (3,391) (662) (3,648)
Provision for loan and lease losses (680) 3,512 742 3,574 
Other (107) 1 (5) (111)
Allowance for loan and lease losses, December 31 546 3,996 4,874 9,416 
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, January 1 — — 797 797 
Provision for unfunded lending commitments — — 16 16 
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, December 31 — — 813 813 
Allowance for credit losses, December 31 $ 546 $ 3,996 $ 5,687 $ 10,229 
Primarily represents write-of fs of purchased credit-impaired loans in 2019.
NOTE 6  Securitizations and Other V ariable
Interest Entities
The Corpora tion utilizes VIEs in the ordinary course of business
to support its own and its customers’  financing and investing
needs. The Corporation routinely securitizes loans and debt
securities using VIEs as a source of funding for the Corporation
and as a means of transferring the economic risk of the loans or
debt securiti es to third parties. The assets are transferred into a
trust or other securitization vehicle such that the assets are
legally isolated from the creditors of the Corporation and are not
available to satisfy its obligations. These assets can only be used
to settle obligations of the trust or other secu ritization vehicle.
The Corporation also administers, structures or invests in other
VIEs including CDOs, investment vehicles and other entities. For
more information on the Corporation’ s use of VIEs, see Note 1 –
Summary of Significant Accounting Principles.
The tables in this Note present the assets and liabilities of
consolidated and unconsolidated VIEs at December 31, 2021
and 2020 in situations where the Corporation has continuing
involvement with transferred assets or if the Corporation
otherwise has a variable interest in the VIE. The tables also
present the Corporation’ s maximum loss exposu re at December
31, 2021 and 2020 resulting from its involvement with
consolidated VIEs and unconsolidated VIEs in which the
Corporation holds a variable interest. The Corporation’ smaximum loss exposure is based on the unlikely event that all of
the assets in the VIEs become worthless and incorporates not
only potential losses associated with assets recorded on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet but also potential losses associated
with off-bala nce sheet commitments, such as unfunded liquidity
commitments and other contractual arrangements. The
Corporation’ s maximum loss exposure does not include losses
previously recognized through write-downs of assets.
The Corporation invests in ABS issued by third-party VIEs
with which it has no other form of involvement  and enters into
certain commercial lending arrangements that may also
incorporate the use of VIEs, for example to hold collateral. These
securities and loans are included in Note 4 – Securities  or Note 5
– Outstanding Loans and Leases and Allowance for Credit
Losses. In addition, the Corporat ion has used VIEs in connection
with its funding activities.
The Corporation did not provide financial  support to
consolidated or unconsolidated VIEs during 2021, 2020 and 2019
that it was not previously contractually required to provide, nor
does it intend to do so.
The Corporation had liquidity commitments, including written
put options and collateral value guarantee s, with certain
unconsolidated VIEs of $968 million and $929 million at
December 31, 2021 and 2020.(1)
(1)
125 Bank of America
First-lien Mortgage Securitizations
As part of its mortgage banking activities, the Corporation
securitizes a portion of the first-lien residential mortgage loans it
originates or purchases from third parties, gener ally in the form of
residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) guaranteed by
government-sponsored enterprises, FNMA  and FHLMC
(collectively the GSEs), or the Government National Mortgage
Association (GNMA) primarily in the case of FHA-insured and
U.S. Depart ment of Veterans Affairs (VA)-guaranteed mortgage
loans. Securitization usually occurs in conjunction with or shortly
after origination or purchase, and the Corporation may also
securitize loans held in its residentialmortgage portfolio. In addition, the Corporation may, from time to
time, securitize commercial mortgages it origina tes or purchases
from other entities. The Corporation typically services the loans it
securitizes. Further , the Corporation may retain beneficial
interests in the securitization trusts including senior and
subordinate securities and equity tranches issued by the trusts.
Except as described in Note 12 – Commitments and
Contingencies , the Corpor ation does not provide guarantees or
recourse to the securitization trusts other than standard
representations and warranties.
The table below summ arizes select information related to
first-lien mortgage securitizations for 2021, 2020 and 2019.
First-lien Mortgage Securitizations
 
Residential Mortgage - Agency Commercial Mortgage
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019 2021 2020 2019
Proceeds from loan sales $ 6,664 $ 15,823 $ 6,858 $ 10,874 $ 5,084 $ 8,661 
Gains on securitizations 9 728 27 156 61 103 
Repurchases from securitization trusts 756 436 881 — — — 
The Corporation transfers residential mortgage loans to securitizations sponsored primarily by the GSEs or GNMA  in the normal course of business and primarily receives RMBS in exchange.
Substantially all of these securities are classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy and are typically sold shortly after receipt.
A majority  of the first-lien residential mortgage loans securitized are initially classified as LHFS and accounted for under the fair value option. Gains recognized on these LHFS prior to securitization,
which totaled $ 121 million, $ 160 million and $ 64 million net of hedges, during 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively , are not included in the table above.
The Corporation may have the option to repurchase delinquent loans out of securitization trusts, which reduces the amount of servicing advances it is required to make. The Corporation may also
repurchase loans from securitization trusts to perform modifications. Repurchased loans include FHA-insured mortgages collateralizing GNMA  securities.
The Corporation recognizes consumer MSRs from the sale or
securitization of consumer real estate loans. The unpaid principal
balance of loans servi ced for investors, including residential
mortgage and home equity loans, totaled $115.4  billion and
$160.4  billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020. Servicin g fee and
ancillary fee income on serviced loans was $392 million, $474
million and $585 million during 2021, 2020 and 2019,
respectively . Servicing advances on serviced loans, including
loans servic ed for others and loans held for investment, were
$2.0 billion and $2.2 billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020. For
more information on MSRs, see Note 20 – Fair Value
Measurements .During 2020, the Corporation completed the sale of $9.3
billion of consumer real estate loans through GNMA  loan
securitizations. As part of the securitizations, the Corporation
retained $8.4 billion of MBS, which are classified as debt
securities carried at fair value on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet. Total gains on loan sales of $704 million were recorded in
other income in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
The following table summarizes select information related to
first-lien mortgage securitization trusts in which  the Corporation
held a variable interest at December 31, 2021 and 2020.(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
Bank of America 126
First-lien Mortgage VIEs
Residential Mortgage   
   Non-agency   
 Agency Prime Subprime Alt-A Commercial Mortgage
 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020
Unconsolidated VIEs           
Maximum loss exposure $ 11,600  $ 13,477  $ 121 $ 250 $ 908 $ 1,031  $ 14 $ 46 $ 1,445  $ 1,169  
On-balance sheet assets           
Senior securities:           
Trading account assets $ 175 $ 152 $ 8 $ 2 $ 44 $ 8 $ 12 $ 12 $ 21 $ 60 
Debt securities carried at fair
value 5,009  7,588  — 103 537 676 — 33 — — 
Held-to-maturity securities 6,416  5,737  — — — — — — 1,157  925 
All other assets — — 3 6 29 26 2 1 93 50 
Total retained positions $ 11,600  $ 13,477  $ 11 $ 111 $ 610 $ 710 $ 14 $ 46 $ 1,271  $ 1,035  
Principal balance outstanding $ 93,142  $ 133,497  $ 4,710  $ 6,081  $ 6,179  $ 6,691  $ 13,627  $ 16,554  $ 85,540  $ 59,268  
Consolidated VIEs           
Maximum loss exposure $ 1,644  $ 1,328  $ 49 $ 66 $ — $ 53 $ — $ — $ — $ — 
On-balance sheet assets           
Trading account assets $ 1,644  $ 1,328  $ — $ 350 $ — $ 260 $ — $ — $ — $ — 
Loans and leases, net — — 58 — — — — — — — 
Total assets $ 1,644  $ 1,328  $ 58 $ 350 $ — $ 260 $ — $ — $ — $ — 
Total liabilities $ — $ — $ 9 $ 284 $ — $ 207 $ — $ — $ — $ — 
Maximum loss exposure includes obligations under loss-sharing reinsurance and other arrangements for non-agency residential mortgage and commercial mortgage securitizations, but excludes the
reserve for represe ntations and warranties obligations and corporate guarantees and also excludes servicing advances and other servicing rights  and obligations. For more information, see Note 12 –
Commitments and Contingencies  and Note 20 – Fair V alue Measurements .
Principal balance outstanding includes loans where the Corporation was the transferor to securitization VIEs with which it has continuing involvement, which may include servicing the loans.
Other Asset-backed Securitizations
The table below summ arizes select information related to home equity , credit card and other asset-backed VIEs in which the
Corporation held a variable interest at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Home Equity Loan, Credit Card and Other Asset-backed VIEs
 Home Equity Credit Card Resecuritization T rusts Municipal Bond T rusts
 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020
Unconsolidated VIEs       
Maximum loss exposure $ 152 $ 206 $ — $ — $ 6,089  $ 8,543  $ 4,094  $ 3,507  
On-balance sheet assets       
Securities :       
Trading account assets $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 1,030  $ 948 $ — $ — 
Debt securities carried at fair value 1 2 — — 1,903  2,727  — — 
Held-to-maturity securities — — — — 3,156  4,868  — — 
Total retained positions $ 1 $ 2 $ — $ — $ 6,089  $ 8,543  $ — $ — 
Total assets of VIEs $ 430 $ 609 $ — $ — $ 18,633  $ 17,250  $ 4,655  $ 4,042  
Consolidated VIEs       
Maximum loss exposure $ 45 $ 58 $ 10,279  $ 14,606  $ 680 $ 217 $ 210 $ 1,030  
On-balance sheet assets       
Trading account assets $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 686 $ 217 $ 122 $ 990 
Loans and leases 140 218 14,434  21,310  — — — — 
Allowance for loan and lease losses 14 14 (970) (1,704 ) — — — — 
All other assets 3 4 70 1,289  — — 88 40 
Total assets $ 157 $ 236 $ 13,534  $ 20,895  $ 686 $ 217 $ 210 $ 1,030  
On-balance sheet liabilities       
Short-term borrowings $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 196 $ 432 
Long-term debt 113 178 3,248  6,273  6 — — — 
All other liabilities — — 7 16 — — — — 
Total liabilities $ 113 $ 178 $ 3,255  $ 6,289  $ 6 $ — $ 196 $ 432 
For unconsolidated  home equity loan VIEs, the maximum loss exposure  includes outstanding trust certificates issued by trusts in rapid amortization, net of recorded reserves. For both consolidated
and unco nsolidated home equity loan VIEs, the maximum loss exposur e excludes the reserve for representations and warranties obligations and corporate guarantees. For more information, see
Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies .
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, loans and leases in the consolidated credit card trust included $ 4.3 billion and $ 7.6 billion of seller ’s interest.
The retained senior securities were valued using quoted market prices or observable market inputs (Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy).(1)
(2)
(1)
(1)
(2)
(1) (2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
127 Bank of America
Home Equity Loans
The Corporation retains interests, primarily senior securities, in
home equity securitization trusts to which it transferred home
equity loans . In addition, the Corporation may be obligated to
provide subordinate funding to the trusts during a rapid
amortization event. This obligation is included in the maximum
loss exposur e in the table above. The charges that will ultimately
be recorded as a result of the rapid amortization events depend
on the undrawn portio n of the home equity lines of credit,
performance of the loans, the amount of subsequent draws and
the timing of related cash flows.
Credit Card Securitizations
The Corporation securitizes originated and purch ased credit card
loans. The Corporation’ s continuing involvement with the
securitization trust includes servicing the receivables, retaining
an undivided interest (seller ’s interest) in the receivables, and
holding certain retained interests, including subordinate interests
in accrued interest and fees on the securitized  receivables and
cash reserve accounts.
During 2021, 2020 and 2019, the Corporation issued new
senior debt securities issued to third-party investors from the
credit card securitization trust of $1.0 billion, $1.0 billion and $1.3
billion, respectively .
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Corporation held
subordinate securities issued by the credit card securitization
trust with a notional principal amount of $6.5 billion and $6.8
billion. These securities serve as a form of credit enhancement to
the senior debt securitie s and have a stated interest rate of zero
percent. During 2021, 2020 and 2019, the credit card
securitization trust issued $161 million, $161 million and $202
million, respectively , of these subordinate securities.
Resecuritization Trusts
The Corpo ration transfers securities, typically MBS, into
resecuritization VIEs generally at the request of customers
seeking securities with specific characteristics. Generally , there
are no significant ongoing activities performed in a
resecuritization trust, and no single investor has the unilateral
ability to liquidate the trust.The Corporation resecuritized $28.9 billion, $39.0 billion and
$24.4 billion of securities during 2021, 2020 and 2019,
respectively . Securities transferred into resec uritization VIEs
were measured at fair value with changes in fair value recorded
in market making and similar activities prior to the resecuritization
and, accord ingly, no gain or loss on sale was recorded.
Securities received from the resecuritizati on VIEs were
recognized at their fair value of $2.2 billion , $6.1 billion  and $5.2
billion during 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively . In 2021 and
2019, substa ntially all of the securities were classified as trading
account assets. All of the securities received as resecuritization
proceeds during 2020 were classified as trading account assets.
Of the securities receiv ed as resecuritization proceeds during
2020, $2.4 billion, $2.1 billion and $1.7 billion were classified as
trading account assets, debt securities carried at fair value and
HTM securities, respectively . Substantially all of the trading
account securities carried at fair value were categorized as Level
2 within the fair value hierarchy .
Municipal Bond Trusts
The Corporation administers municipal bond trusts that hold
highly-rated, long-term, fixed-rate municipal bonds. The trusts
obtain finan cing by issuing floating-rate trust certificates that
reprice on a weekly or other short-term basis to third-party
investors.
The Corpor ation’ s liquidity commitments to unconsolidated
municipal bond trusts, including those for which the Corporation
was transferor , totaled $4.1 billion and $3.5 billion at
December 31, 2021 and 2020. The weighted-av erage remaining
life of bonds held in the trusts at December 31, 2021 was 6.3
years. There were no significant write-downs or downgrades of
assets or issuers during 2021, 2020 and 2019.
Other Variable Interest Entities
The table below summarizes select information related to other
VIEs in which the Corporation held a variable interest at
December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Other VIEs
Consolidated Unconsolidated Total Consolidated Unconsolidated Total
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Maximum loss exposure $ 4,819 $ 27,790 $ 32,609 $ 4,106 $ 23,870 $ 27,976 
On-balance sheet assets       
Trading account assets $ 2,552 $ 626 $ 3,178 $ 2,080 $ 623 $ 2,703 
Debt securities carried at fair value — 7 7 — 9 9 
Loans and leases 2,503 47 2,550 2,108 184 2,292 
Allowance for loan and lease losses (2) (12) (14) (3) (3) (6)
All other assets 28 26,628 26,656 54 22,553 22,607 
Total $ 5,081 $ 27,296 $ 32,377 $ 4,239 $ 23,366 $ 27,605 
On-balance sheet liabilities       
Short-term borrowings $ 51 $ — $ 51 $ 22 $ — $ 22 
Long-term debt 211 — 211 111 — 111 
All other liabilities — 6,548 6,548 — 5,658 5,658 
Total $ 262 $ 6,548 $ 6,810 $ 133 $ 5,658 $ 5,791 
Total assets of VIEs $ 5,081 $ 92,249 $ 97,330 $ 4,239 $ 77,984 $ 82,223 
Bank of America 128
Customer VIEs
Customer VIEs include credit-linked, equity-linked and
commodity-linked note VIEs, repackaging VIEs and asset
acquisition VIEs, which are typically created on behalf of
customers who wish to obtain market or credit exposure to a
specific company , index, commodity or financial instrument.
The Corporation’ s maximum loss exposure to consolidated
and unconsolidated customer VIEs totaled $2.9 billion and $2.3
billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020, including the notional
amount of derivatives to which the Corporation is a counterparty ,
net of losses previously recorded, and the Corporation’ s
investment, if any , in securities issued by the VIEs.
Collateralized Debt Obligation VIEs
The Corporation receives fees for structuring CDO VIEs, which
hold diversified pools of fixed-income securities, typically
corporate debt or ABS,  which the CDO VIEs fund by issuing
multiple tranches of debt and equity securities. CDOs are
generally managed by third-party portfolio managers. The
Corporation typically transfers assets to these CDOs, holds
securities issued by the CDOs and may be a derivative
counterparty to the CDOs. The Corporation’ s maximum loss
exposure to consolidated and unconsolidated CDOs totaled $235
million and $ 298 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Investment VIEs
The Corporation sponsors, invests in or provides financing, which
may be in connection with the sale of assets , to a variety of
investment VIEs that hold loans, real estate, debt securities or
other financial instruments and are designed to provide the
desired investment profile to investors or the Corporation. At
December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Corporation’ s consolidated
investment VIEs had total assets of $1.0 billion and $494 million.
The Corporation also held investments in unconsolidated VIEs
with total assets of $7.1 billion and $5.4 billion at December 31,
2021 and 2020. The Corporation’ s maximum  loss exposure
associated with both consolidated and unconsolidated
investment VIEs totaled $2.0 billion and $1.5 billion at
December 31, 2021 and 2020 comprised primarily of on-balance
sheet assets less non-recourse liabilities.
Leveraged Lease Trusts
The Corporation’ s net investment in consolidated leveraged
lease trusts totaled $1.5 billion and $1.7 billion at December 31,
2021 and 2020. The trusts hold long-lived equipment such as rail
cars, power generation and distribution equipment, and
commercial aircraft. The Corporation structures the trusts and
holds a significant residual interest. The net investment
represents the Corporation’ s maximum loss exposure to the
trusts in the unlikely event that the leveraged lease investments
become worthless. Debt issued by the leveraged lease trusts is
non-recourse to the Corporation.
Tax Credit VIEs
The Corporation holds investments in unconsolidated limited
partnerships and similar entities that construct, own and operate
affordable housing, wind and solar projects. An unrelated third
party is typically the general partner or managingmember and has control over the significant activities of the VIE.
The Corpora tion earns a return primarily through the receipt of
tax credits allocated to the projects. The maximu m loss exposure
included in the Other VIEs table was $25.7 billion and $22.0
billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020. The Corporation’ s risk of
loss is generally mitigat ed by policies requiring that the project
qualify for the expected tax credits prior to making its investment.
The Corporation’ s investments in afforda ble housing
partnerships, which are reported in other assets on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet, totaled $12.6 billion and $11.2
billion, including unfunded commitments to provide capital
contributions of $5.8 billion and $5.0 billion, at December 31,
2021 and 2020. The unfunded commitments are expected to be
paid over the next five years . During 2021, 2020 and 2019, the
Corporation recognized tax credits and other tax benefits from
investments in affordable housing partnerships  of $1.3 billion,
$1.2 billion and $1.0 billion and reported pretax losses in other
income of $1.1 billion, $1.0 billion and $882 million, respectively .
These tax credits are recognized as part of the Corporation’ s
annual effective tax rate used to determine tax expense in a
given quarter . The Corporation may be asked to invest additional
amounts to support a troubled affordable housing project. Such
additional investments have not been and are not expected to be
significant.
NOTE 7 Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Goodwill
The table below presents goodwill balance s by business
segment at December 31, 2021 and 2020. The reporting units
utilized for goodwill impairment testing are the operating
segments or one level below .
Goodwill
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Consumer Banking $ 30,137 $ 30,123 
Global Wealth & Investment Management 9,677 9,677 
Global Banking 24,026 23,969 
Global Markets 5,182 5,182 
Total goodwill $ 69,022 $ 68,951 
 Prior period has been revised to conform to current-period presentation.
During 2021 , the Corporation completed its annual goodwill
impairment test as of June 30, 2021 using qualitative
assessments for all applicable reporting units. Based on the
results of the annual goodwill impairment test, the Corporation
determined there was no impairment. For more information on
the use of qualitative assessments, see Note 1 – Summary of
Significant Accounting Principles.
Intangible Assets
At both December 31, 2021 and 2020, the net carrying value of
intangible assets was $2.2 billion. At both Decem ber 31, 2021
and 2020, intangible assets included $1.6 billion of intangible
assets associated with trade names, substantially all of which
had an indefinite life and, accordingly , are not being amortized.
Amortization of intangibles expense was $76 million, $95 million
and $ 112 million for 2021, 2020 and 2019.(1)
(1)
129 Bank of America
NOTE 8 Leases
The Corporation enters into both lesso r and lessee
arrangements. For more information on lease accounting, see
Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  and on
lease financing receivables, see Note 5 – Outstanding Loans and
Leases and Allowance for Credit Losses .
Lessor Arrangements
The Corporation’ s lessor arrangements primarily consist of
operating, sales-type and direct financing lease s for equipment.
Lease agree ments may include options to renew and for the
lessee to purchase the leased equipment at the end of the lease
term.
The table below presents the net investment in sales-type and
direct financing leases at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Net Investment 
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Lease receivables $ 16,806 $ 17,627 
Unguaranteed residuals 2,078 2,303 
   Total net investment in sales-type and direct
      financing leases $ 18,884 $ 19,930 
In certain cases, the Corporation obtains third-party residual value insurance to reduce its
residual asset risk. The carrying value of residual assets with third-party residual value
insurance for at least a portion of the asset value was $7.1 billion and $6.9 billion at
December 31, 2021 and 2020.
The table below presents lease income at December 31,
2021 and 2020.
Lease Income
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Sales-type and direct financing leases $ 613 $ 707 
Operating leases 930 931 
   Total lease income $ 1,543 $ 1,638 
Lessee Arrangements
The Corporation's lessee arrangements predom inantly consist of
operating leases for premises and equipment; the Corporation's
financing leases are not significant.
Lease terms may contain renewal and extension options and
early termination features. Generally , these options do not impact
the lease term because the Corporation is not reasonably certain
that it will exercise the options.
The following table provides information on the right-of-use
assets, lease liabilities and weighted-average discount rates and
lease terms at December 31, 2021 and 2020.Lessee Arrangements
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Right-of-use asset $ 10,233 $ 10,000 
Lease liabilities 10,858 10,474 
Weighted-average discount rate used to
calculate present value of future
minimum lease payments 2.91 % 3.38 %
Weighted-average lease term (in years) 9.0 8.4
Lease Cost and Supplemental Information:
Operating lease cost $ 2,025 $ 2,149 
Variable lease cost 462 474 
   Total lease cost $ 2,487 $ 2,623 
Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange
for
new operating lease liabilities $ 1,713 $ 851 
Operating cash flows from operating
    leases 1,964 2,039 
Primarily consists of payments for common area maintenance and property taxes.
Amounts are recorded in occupancy and equipment expense in the Consolidated Statement of
Income.
Represents non-ca sh activity and, accordingly , is not reflected in the Consolidated Statement
of Cash Flows.
Represents cash paid for amounts included in the measurements of lease liabilities.
Maturity Analysis
The maturities of lessor and lessee arrangements outstanding at
December 31, 2021 are presented in the table below based on
undiscounted cash flows.
Maturities of Lessor and Lessee Arrangements
Lessor Lessee 
Operating
LeasesSales-type and
Direct Financing
Leases Operating
Leases
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2021
2022 $ 848 $ 5,208 $ 1,917 
2023 742 4,617 1,716 
2024 591 3,888 1,550 
2025 412 1,318 1,309 
2026 296 1,634 1,153 
Thereafter 696 1,358 4,758 
Total undiscounted
cash flows $ 3,585 18,023 12,403 
Less: Net present
value adjustment 1,217 1,545 
Total $ 16,806 $ 10,858 
Excludes $179 million in commitments under lessee arrangements that have not yet
commenced with lease terms that will begin in 2022.
Includes $10.9 billion in comm ercial lease financing receivables and $5.9 billion in
direct/indirect consumer lease financing receivables.
Represents lease  receivables for lessor arrangements and lease liabilities for lessee
arrangements.(1)
(1)(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
Bank of America 130
NOTE 9 Deposits
The scheduled contractual maturities for total time deposits at December 31, 2021 are presented in the table below .
Contractual Maturities of Total Time Deposits
(Dollars in millions) U.S. Non-U.S. Total
Due in 2022 $ 34,555 $ 9,193 $ 43,748 
Due in 2023 1,934 75 2,009 
Due in 2024 350 5 355 
Due in 2025 230 11 241 
Due in 2026 120 1,361 1,481 
Thereafter 248 29 277 
Total time deposits $ 37,437 $ 10,674 $ 48,111 
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Corporation had
aggregate U.S. time deposits of $9.4 billion and $10.7 billion and
non-U.S. time deposits of $10.6 billion and $11.8 billion in
denominations that met or exceeded insurance limits.
NOTE 10 Securities Financing Agreements,
Short-term Borrowings and Restricted Cash
The Corporation enters into securities financin g agreements to
accommodate custome rs (also referred to as “matched-book
transactions”), obtain securities to cover short positions and
finance inventory positions. The Corporation elects to account for
certain securities financing agreements and short-term
borrowings under the fair value option. For more information on
the fair value option, see Note 21 – Fair V alue Option .
Offsetting of Securities Financing Agreements
Substantially all of the Corporation’ s securities financing activities
are transacted under legally enforceable master repurchase
agreements or legally enforceable master securities lending
agreements that give the Corporation, in the event ofdefault by the counterparty , the right to liquidat e securities held
and to offset receivables and payables with the same
counterparty . The Corporation offsets securities financing
transactions with the same counterparty on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet where it has such a legally enforceable master
netting agreement and the transactions have the same maturity
date.
The Securities Financing Agreements table presents
securities financing agreements included on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet in federal funds sold and securities borrowed or
purchased under agreements to resell, and in federal funds
purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to
repurchase at December 31, 2021 and 2020. Balances are
presented on a gross basis, prior to the application of
counterparty netting. Gross assets and liabilities are adjusted on
an aggrega te basis to take into consideration the effects of
legally enforceable master netting agreeme nts. For more
information on the offsetting of derivatives, see Note 3 –
Derivatives.
Securities Financing Agreements
Gross
Assets/LiabilitiesAmounts OffsetNet Balance
Sheet AmountFinancial
Instruments Net
Assets/Liabilities
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2021
Securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell $ 527,054 $ (276,334)$ 250,720 $ (229,525)$ 21,195 
Securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase $ 468,663 $ (276,334)$ 192,329 $ (181,860)$ 10,469 
Other 11,391 — 11,391 (11,391) — 
Total $ 480,054 $ (276,334)$ 203,720 $ (193,251)$ 10,469 
December 31, 2020
Securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell $ 492,387 $ (188,329)$ 304,058 $ (272,351)$ 31,707 
Securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase $ 358,652 $ (188,329)$ 170,323 $ (158,867)$ 11,456 
Other 16,210 — 16,210 (16,210) — 
Total $ 374,862 $ (188,329)$ 186,533 $ (175,077)$ 11,456 
Includes activity where uncertainty exists as to the enforceability of certain master netting agreements under bankruptcy laws in some countries or industries.
Includes securities collateral received or pledged under repurchase or securities lending agreements where there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement. These amounts are not offset on
the Cons olidated Balance Sheet, but are shown as a reduction to derive a net asset or liability . Securities collateral received or pledged where the legal enforceability of the master netting
agreements is uncertain is excluded from the table.
Excludes repurchase activity of $ 20.1 billion and $ 14.7 billion reported in loans and leases on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Balance is reported in accrued expenses and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and relates to transactions where the Corporation acts as the lender in a securities lending
agreement and receives securities that can be pledged as collateral or sold. In these transactions, the Corporation recognizes an asset at fair value, representing the securities received, and a
liability , representing the obligation to return those securities.
Repurchase Agreements and Securities Loaned Transactions Accounted for as Secured Borrowings
The followin g tables present securities sold under agreements to repurchase and securities loaned by remaining contractual term to
maturity and class of collateral pledged. Included in “Other” are transactions where the Corporation acts as the lender in a securities
lending agreement and receives securities that can be pledged as collateral or sold. Certain agreements contain a right to substitute
collateral and/or termina te the agreement prior to maturity at the option of the Corporation or the counterparty . Such agreements are
included in the table below based on the remaining contractual term to maturity .(1) (2)
(3)
(4)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
131 Bank of America
Remaining Contractual Maturity
Overnight and
Continuous 30 Days or LessAfter 30 Days
Through 90 DaysGreater than
90 Days Total
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2021
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase $ 148,023 $ 194,964 $ 36,939 $ 36,501 $ 416,427 
Securities loaned 46,231 466 1,428 4,111 52,236 
Other 11,391 — — — 11,391 
Total $ 205,645 $ 195,430 $ 38,367 $ 40,612 $ 480,054 
December 31, 2020
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase $ 158,400 $ 122,448 $ 32,149 $ 22,684 $ 335,681 
Securities loaned 19,140 271 1,029 2,531 22,971 
Other 16,210 — — — 16,210 
Total $ 193,750 $ 122,719 $ 33,178 $ 25,215 $ 374,862 
No agreements have maturities greater than three years .
Class of Collateral Pledged
Securities Sold
Under Agreements
to RepurchaseSecurities
Loaned Other Total
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2021
U.S. government and agency securities $ 201,546 $ 27 $ — $ 201,573 
Corporate securities, trading loans and other 12,838 3,440 1,148 17,426 
Equity securities 19,907 48,650 10,192 78,749 
Non-U.S. sovereign debt 178,019 119 51 178,189 
Mortgage trading loans and ABS 4,117 — — 4,117 
Total $ 416,427 $ 52,236 $ 11,391 $ 480,054 
December 31, 2020
U.S. government and agency securities $ 195,167 $ 5 $ — $ 195,172 
Corporate securities, trading loans and other 8,633 1,628 1,217 11,478 
Equity securities 14,752 21,125 14,931 50,808 
Non-U.S. sovereign debt 113,142 213 62 113,417 
Mortgage trading loans and ABS 3,987 — — 3,987 
Total $ 335,681 $ 22,971 $ 16,210 $ 374,862 
Under repur chase agree ments, the Corporation is required to
post collateral with a market value equal to or in excess of the
principal amount borrow ed. For securities loaned transactions,
the Corporation receives collateral in the form of cash, letters of
credit or other securities . To determine whether the market value
of the underlying collateral remains sufficient, collateral is
generally valued daily, and the Corporation may be required to
deposit additional collateral or may receive or return collateral
pledged when appropriate. Repurchase agreements and
securities loaned transactions are generally either overnight,
continuous (i.e., no stated term) or short-term. The Corporation
manages liquidity risks related to these agreements by sourcing
funding from a diverse group of counterparties, providing a range
of securities collateral and pursuing longer durations, when
appropriate.
Short-term Bank Notes
Bank of America, N.A. maintains a global program to offer up to a
maximum of $ 75.0 billion outstanding at any one time, ofbank notes with fixed or floating rates and maturities of at least
seven days  from the date of issue. Short-term bank notes
outstanding under this program totaled $1.8 billion and $3.9
billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020. These short-term bank
notes, along with Federal Home Loan Bank advances, U.S.
Treasury tax and loan notes, and term federal funds purchased,
are included in short-term borrowings on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet.
Restricted Cash
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Corporation held restricted
cash included within cash and cash equivalents on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet of $5.9 billion and $7.0 billion,
predominantly related to cash segregated in compliance with
securities regulations and cash held on deposit with central
banks to meet reserve requirements.(1)
(1)
Bank of America 132
NOTE 11 Long-term Debt
Long-term debt consists of borrowings having an original maturity of one year or more. The table below presents the balance of long-
term debt at December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the related contractual rates and maturity dates as of December 31, 2021.
Weighted-
average RateDecember 31
(Dollars in millions) Interest Rates Maturity Dates 2021 2020
Notes issued by Bank of America Corporation   
Senior notes:   
Fixed 2.85% 0.25 - 8.05% 2022 - 2052$ 194,191 $ 174,385 
Floating 0.64 0.02 - 4.88 2023 - 2044 18,753 16,788 
Senior structured notes 15,086 17,033 
Subordinated notes:
Fixed 4.88 2.94 - 8.57 2024 - 2045 22,311 23,337 
Floating 2.18 0.82 - 2.48 2026 - 2036 2,371 799 
Junior subordinated notes:
Fixed 6.71 6.45 - 8.05 2027 - 2066 741 738 
Floating 0.97 0.97 2056 1 1 
Total notes issued by Bank of America Corporation 253,454 233,081 
Notes issued by Bank of America, N.A.   
Senior notes:   
Fixed 3.34 3.34 2023 501 511 
Floating 0.26 0.20 - 0.33 2022 - 2023 3,173 2,323 
Subordinated notes 6.00 6.00 2036 1,780 1,883 
Advances from Federal Home Loan Banks:
Fixed 1.54 0.01 - 7.72 2022 - 2034 290 599 
Securitizations and other BANA VIEs 3,338 6,296 
Other 680 683 
Total notes issued by Bank of America, N.A. 9,762 12,295 
Other debt   
Structured liabilities 16,599 16,792 
Nonbank VIEs 249 757 
Other 53 9 
Total notes issued by nonbank and other entities 16,901 17,558 
Total long-term debt $ 280,117 $ 262,934 
Includes total loss-absorbing capacity compliant debt.
Represents liabilities of consolidated VIEs included in total long-term debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Long-term debt of VIEs is collateralized by the assets of the VIEs. At December 31,
2021, amount includes debt predominantly from credit card securitization and other VIEs of $3.2 billion and $211 million. For more information, see Note 6 – Securitizations and Other Variable
Interest Entities.
Includes debt outstanding of $5.4 billion and $4.8 billion at Decembe r 31, 2021 and 2020 that was issued by BofA  Finance  LLC, a consolidated finance subsidiary of Bank of America Corporation, the
parent company , and is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the parent company .
During 2021, the Corporation issued $76.7 billion of long-term
debt consisting of $56.2 billion of notes issued by Bank of
America Corporation, $8.0 billion of notes issued by Bank of
America, N.A. and $12.5 billion of other debt. During 2020, the
Corporation issued $56.9 billion of long-term debt consisting of
$43.8 billion of notes issued  by Bank of America Corporation,
$4.8 billion of notes issued by Bank of America, N.A. and $8.3
billion of other debt.
During 2021, the Corporation had total long-term debt
maturities and redemptions in the aggregate of $46.4 billion
consisting of $24.4 billion for Bank of America Corporation, $10.4
billion for Bank of America, N.A. and $11.6 billion  of other debt.
During 2020, the Corporation had total long-term debt maturities
and redemptions in the aggregate of $47.1 billion  consisting of
$22.6 billion for Bank of America Corporation, $11.5 billion for
Bank of America, N.A. and $ 13.0 billion of other debt.
Bank of America Corporation and Bank of America, N.A.
maintain various U.S. and non-U.S. debt programs to offer both
senior and subordinated notes. The notes may be denominated
in U.S. dollars or foreign  currencies. At Decemb er 31, 2021 and
2020, the amount of foreign currency-denominated debt
translated into U.S. dollars included in total long-term debt was
$53.1 billion and $54.6 billion. Foreign currency  contracts may be
used to convert certain foreign currency-denominated debt into
U.S. dollars.
The weighted-average effective interest rates for total long-
term debt (excluding senior structured notes), total fixed-ratedebt and total floating-rate debt were 2.83 percent, 3.08 percent
and 0.75 percent, respectively , at December 31, 2021, and 3.02
percent, 3.29 percent and 0.71 percent, respectively , at
December 31, 2020. The Corporation’ s ALM activities maintain
an overall interest rate risk management strategy that
incorporates the use of interest rate contracts to manage
fluctuations in earnings caused by interest rate volatility . The
Corporation’ s goal is to manage interest rate sensitivity so that
movements in interest rates do not have a significantly adverse
effect on earnings and capital. The weighted-average rates are
the contract ual interest rates on the debt and do not reflect the
impacts of derivative transactions.
The following table shows the carrying value for aggregate
annual contractual maturities of long-term debt as of
December 31, 2021. Included in the table are certain structured
notes issued by the Corporation that contain provisions whereby
the borrowings are redeemable at the option of the holder (put
options) at specified dates prior to maturity . Other structured
notes have coupon or repayment terms linked to the performance
of debt or equity securities, indices, currencies or commodities,
and the maturity may be accelerated based on the value of a
referenced index or security . In both cases, the Corporation or a
subsidiary may be required to settle the obligation for cash or
other securities prior to the contractual maturity date. These
borrowings are reflected in the table as maturing at their
contractual maturity date.(1)
 (2)
 (3)
 (2)
(1)
(2)
(3)
133 Bank of America
Long-term Debt by Maturity
(Dollars in millions) 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 Thereafter Total
Bank of America Corporation
Senior notes $ 3,217 $ 23,326 $ 23,462 $ 21,534 $ 17,968 $ 123,437 $ 212,944 
Senior structured notes 1,937 572 396 398 819 10,964 15,086 
Subordinated notes — — 3,283 5,379 5,171 10,849 24,682 
Junior subordinated notes — — — — — 742 742 
Total Bank of America Corporation 5,154 23,898 27,141 27,311 23,958 145,992 253,454 
Bank of America, N.A.
Senior notes 1,600 2,074 — — — — 3,674 
Subordinated notes — — — — — 1,780 1,780 
Advances from Federal Home Loan Banks 202 1 — 16 10 61 290 
Securitizations and other Bank VIEs 1,259 988 1,000 1 — 90 3,338 
Other 102 386 32 143 7 10 680 
Total Bank of America, N.A. 3,163 3,449 1,032 160 17 1,941 9,762 
Other debt
Structured Liabilities 3,586 2,823 1,996 668 1,621 5,905 16,599 
Nonbank VIEs 2 51 — — — 196 249 
Other — — — — — 53 53 
Total other debt 3,588 2,874 1,996 668 1,621 6,154 16,901 
Total long-term debt $ 11,905 $ 30,221 $ 30,169 $ 28,139 $ 25,596 $ 154,087 $ 280,117 
Represents liabilities of consolidated VIEs included in total long-term debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
NOTE 12 Commitments and Contingencies
In the norma l course of business, the Corporation enters into a
number of off-balance sheet commitments. These commitments
expose the Corporation to varying degrees of credit and market
risk and are subject to the same credit and market risk limitation
reviews as those instruments recorded on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet.
Credit Extension Commitments
The Corporation enters into commitments to extend credit such
as loan commitments, SBLCs and commercial letters of credit to
meet the financing needs of its customers. The following table
includes the notional amount of unfunded legally binding lending
commitments net of amounts distributed (i.e., syndicated or
participated) to other financial institutions. The distributed
amounts were $10.7 billion and $10.5 billion at December 31,
2021 and 2020. The carrying value of the Corporation’ s credit
extension commitments  at December 31, 2021 and 2020,
excluding commitments accounted for underthe fair value option, was $1.5 billion and $1.9 billion, which
predominantly related to the reserve for unfunded lending
commitments. The carrying value of these commitments is
classified in accrued expenses and other liabilities on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Legally binding commitm ents to extend credit generally have
specified rates and maturities. Certain of these commitments
have adverse change clauses that help to protec t the Corporation
against deterioration in the borrower ’s ability to pay .
The followi ng table includes the notional amount of
commitments of $4.8 billion  and $4.0 billion  at December 31,
2021 and 2020 that are accounted for under the fair value option.
However , the table excludes the cumulative net fair value for
these commitments of $97 million and $99 million at
December 31, 2021 and 2020, which is classified in accrued
expenses and other liabilities. For more information regarding the
Corporation’ s loan commitments accounted for under the fair
value option, see Note 21 – Fair V alue Option.(1)
(1)
(1)     
Bank of America 134
Credit Extension Commitments
Expire in One
Year or LessExpire After One
Year Through
Three YearsExpire After Three
Years Through
Five YearsExpire After
Five Years Total
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2021
Notional amount of credit extension commitments      
Loan commitments $ 102,464 $ 190,687 $ 174,978 $ 26,635 $ 494,764 
Home equity lines of credit 890 5,097 10,268 24,276 40,531 
Standby letters of credit and financial guarantees 22,359 10,742 2,017 422 35,540 
Letters of credit 1,145 124 56 98 1,423 
Other commitments 18 59 81 1,233 1,391 
Legally binding commitments 126,876 206,709 187,400 52,664 573,649 
Credit card lines 406,169 — — — 406,169 
Total credit extension commitments $ 533,045 $ 206,709 $ 187,400 $ 52,664 $ 979,818 
 December 31, 2020
Notional amount of credit extension commitments      
Loan commitments $ 109,406 $ 171,887 $ 139,508 $ 16,091 $ 436,892 
Home equity lines of credit 710 2,992 8,738 29,892 42,332 
Standby letters of credit and financial guarantees 19,962 12,038 2,397 1,257 35,654 
Letters of credit 886 197 25 27 1,135 
Other commitments 22 132 125 1,219 1,498 
Legally binding commitments 130,986 187,246 150,793 48,486 517,511 
Credit card lines 384,955 — — — 384,955 
Total credit extension commitments $ 515,941 $ 187,246 $ 150,793 $ 48,486 $ 902,466 
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, $ 4.6 billion and $ 4.8 billion of these loan commitments were held in the form of a security .
The notional amounts of SBLCs and financial guarantees classified as investment grade and non-investment grade based on the credit quality of the underlying reference name within the instrument
were $26.3 billion and $8.7 billion at December 31, 2021, and $25.0 billion and $10.2 billion at December 31, 2020. Amou nts in the table include consumer SBLCs of $512 million and $500 million at
December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Primarily includes second-loss positions on lease-end residual value guarantees.
Includes business card unused lines of credit.
Other Commitments
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Corporation had
commitments to purchase loans (e.g., residenti al mortgage and
commercial real estate) of $181 millio n and $93 millio n, which
upon settlem ent will be included in trading account assets, loans
or LHFS, and commitments to purchase commercial loans of
$518 million and $645 million, which upon settlement will be
included in trading account assets.
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Corporation had
commitments to purchase commodities, primarily liquefied
natural gas, of $949 millio n and $582 millio n, which upon
settlement will be included in trading account assets.
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Corporation had
commitments to enter into resale and forward-dated resale and
securities borrowing agreements of $92.0 billion and $66.5
billion, and commitments to enter into forward-d ated repurchase
and securities lending agreements of $32.6 billion and $32.1
billion. These commitments generally expire within the next 12
months.
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Corpo ration had a
commitment to originate or purchase up to $4.0 billion and $3.9
billion on a rolling 12-mo nth basis, of auto loans and leases from
a strategic partner . This commitment extends through November
2026 and can be terminated with 12 months prior notice.
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Corporation had
unfunded equity investm ent commitments of $395 million and
$213 million.
Other Guarantees
Bank-owned Life Insurance Book Value Protection
The Corporation sells products that offer book value protection to
insurance carriers who offer group life insurance policies to
corporations, primarily banks. At December 31, 2021 and2020, the notional amount of these guarantees totaled $6.3
billion and $7.1 billion. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, the
Corporation’ s maximum  exposure related to these guarantees
totaled $928 million and $1.1 billion, with estimated maturity
dates between 2033 and 2039.
Indemnifications
In the ordinary course of business, the Corpor ation enters into
various agreements that contain indemnifications, such as tax
indemnifications, whereupon payment may become due if certain
external events occur , such as a change in tax law. The
indemnification clauses are often standard contractual terms and
were entered into in the normal course of business based on an
assessment that the risk of loss would be remote. These
agreements typically contain an early termination clause that
permits the Corporation to exit the agreement upon these events.
The maximum potential future payment under indemnification
agreements is difficult to assess for several reasons, including
the occurrence of an external event, the inability to predict future
changes in tax and other laws, the difficulty in determining how
such laws would apply to parties in contracts, the absence of
exposure limits contained in standard contract language and the
timing of any early termination clauses. Historically , any
payments made under these guarantees have been de minimis.
The Corporation has assessed the probability of making such
payments in the future as remote.
Merchant Services
Prior to July 1, 2020, a significant portion of the Corporation's
merchant processing activity was performed by a joint venture in
which the Corporation held a 49 percent ownership interest.
Effective July 1, 2020, the Corporation received its share of the
joint venture's merchant contracts and began performing
merchant processing services for these merchants.(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)     
(2)     
(3)     
(4)     
135 Bank of America
The Corporation in its role as merchant acquirer or as a
sponsor of other mercha nt acquirers may be held liable for any
reversed charges that cannot be collected from the merchants,
due to, among other things, merchant fraud or insolvency . If
charges are properly reversed after a purchase and cannot be
collected from either the merchants or merchant acquirers, the
Corporation may be held liable for these reversed charges. The
ability to reverse a charge is primarily governed by the applicable
regulatory and card network rules, which include, but are not
limited to, the type of charge, type of payment used and time
limits. The total amount of transactions processed for the
preceding six-month period, which was $476.2  billion, is an
estimate of the Corporation’ s maximum potential exposure as of
December 31, 2021. The Corporation’ s risk in this area primarily
relates to circumstance s where a cardholder  has purchased
goods or services for future delivery . The Corporation mitigates
this risk by requiring cash deposits, guarantees, letters of credit
or other types of collateral from certain merchants. The
Corporation’ s reserves for contingent losses and the losses
incurred related to the merchant processing activity were not
significant. The Corporation continues to monitor its exposure in
this area due to the potential economic impacts of the pandemic.
Exchange and Clearing House Member Guarantees
The Corporation is a member of various securities and derivative
exchanges and clearinghouses, both in the U.S. and other
countries. As a member , the Corporation may be required to pay
a pro-rata share of the losses incurred by some of these
organizations as a result of another member default and under
other loss scenarios. The Corporation’ s potentia l obligations may
be limited to its membe rship interests in such  exchanges and
clearinghouses, to the amount (or multiple) of the Corporation’ s
contribution to the guarantee fund or, in limited instances, to the
full pro-rata share of the residual losses after applying the
guarantee fund. The Corporation’ s maximum potential exposure
under these  membership agreements is difficult to estimate;
however , the Corporation has assessed the probability of making
any such payments as remote.
Prime Brokerage and Securities Clearing Services
In connection with its prime brokerage and clearing businesses,
the Corporation performs securities clearance and settlement
services with other brokerage firms and clearinghouses on behalf
of its clients. Under these arrangements, the Corporation stands
ready to meet the obligations of its clients with respect to
securities transactions. The Corporation’ s obligations in this
respect are secured by the assets in the clients’  accounts and the
accounts of their custom ers as well as by any proceeds received
from the transactions cleared and settled by the Corporation on
behalf of clients or their customers. The Corporation’ s maximum
potential exposure under these arrangement s is difficult to
estimate; however , the potential for the Corporation to incur
material losses pursuant to these arrangements is remote.
Fixed Income Clearing Corporation Sponsored
Member Repo Program
The Corpora tion acts as a sponsoring member in a repo program
whereby the Corporation clears certain eligible resale and
repurchase agreements through the Government Securities
Division of the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation on behalf of
clients that are sponsore d members in accordance with the Fixed
Income Clearing Corporation’ s rules. As part of this program, the
Corporation guarantees the payment andperformance of its sponsored members to the Fixed Income
Clearing Corporation. The Corporation’ s guarantee obligation is
secured by a security interest in cash or high-quality securities
collateral placed by clients with the clearinghouse and therefore,
the potential for the Corporation to incur signific ant losses under
this arrang ement is remote. The Corporation’ s maximum
potential exposure, without taking into consider ation the related
collateral, was $42.0 billion and $22.5 billion at December 31,
2021 and 2020.
Other Guarantees
In the normal course of business, the Corporation periodically
guarantees the obligations of its affiliates in a variety of
transactions including ISDA-related transaction s and non-ISDA
related transactions such as commodities trading, repurchase
agreements, prime brokerage agreements and other
transactions.
Guarantees of Certain Long-term Debt
The Corpo ration, as the parent company , fully and
unconditionally guarante es the securities issued  by BofA  Finance
LLC, a consolidated finance subsidiary of the Corporation, and
effectively provides for the full and unconditional guarantee of
trust securities issued by certain statutory trust companies that
are 100 percent owned finance subsidiaries of the Corporation.
Representations and Warranties Obligations and
Corporate Guarantees
The Corporation securitizes first-lien residential  mortgage loans
generally in the form of RMBS guaranteed by the GSEs or by
GNMA  in the case of FHA-insured, VA-guaranteed and Rural
Housing Service-guaranteed mortgage loans, and sells pools of
first-lien residential mortgage loans in the form of whole loans. In
addition, in prior years, legacy companie s and certain
subsidiaries sold pools of first-lien residential mortgage loans and
home equity loans as private-label securitizations or in the form
of whole loans. In connection with these transactions, the
Corporation or certain of its subsidiaries or legacy companies
make and have made various representations  and warranties.
Breaches of these representations and warranti es have resulted
in and may continue to result in the requirement to repurchase
mortgage loans or to otherwise make whole or provide
indemnification or other remedies to sponsors, investors,
securitization trusts, guarantors, insurers or other parties
(collectively , repurchases).
Unresolved Repurchase Claims
Unresolved representations and warranties repurchase claims
represent the notional amount of repurchase claims made by
counterparties, typically the outstanding principal balance or the
unpaid principal balance at the time of default. In the case of first-
lien mortgages, the claim amount is often significantly greater
than the expected loss amount due to the benefit of collateral
and, in some cases, mortgage insurance or mortgage guarantee
payments.
The notional amount of unresolved repurcha se claims at
December 31, 2021 and 2020 was $8.4 billion and $8.5 billion.
These balances included $2.8 billion and $2.9 billion at
December 31, 2021 and 2020 of claims related to loans in
specific priva te-label securitization groups or tranches where the
Corporation owns substantially all of the outstanding securities or
will otherwise realize the benefit of any repurchase claims paid.
Bank of America 136
During 2021, the Corporation received $49 million in new
repurchase claims that were not time-barred. During 2021, $141
million in claims were resolved.
Reserve and Related Provision
The reserve for representations and warranties obligations and
corporate guarantees was $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion at
December 31, 2021 and 2020 and is included in accrued
expenses and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet, and the related provision is included in other income in the
Consolidated Statement of Income. The representations and
warranties reserve repre sents the Corporation’ s best estimate of
probable incurred losses , is based on its experi ence in previous
negotiations, and is subject to judgment, a variety of assumptions
and known or unknown uncertainties. Future representations and
warranties losses may occur in excess of the amounts recorded
for these exposures; however , the Corporation does not expect
such amounts to be material to the Corporation's financial
condition and liquidity . See Litigation and Regulatory Matters
below for the Corporatio n's combined range of possible loss in
excess of the reserve for representations and warranties and the
accrued liability for litigation.
Litigation and Regulatory Matters
In the ordin ary course  of business, the Corporation and its
subsidiaries are routinely defendants in or parties to many
pending and threatened legal, regulatory and governmental
actions and proceedings. In view of the inherent difficulty of
predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly where the
claimants seek very large or indeterminate damages or where
the matters  present novel legal theories or involve a large
number of parties, the Corporation generally cannot predict the
eventual outcome of the pending matters, timin g of the ultimate
resolution of these matters, or eventual loss, fines or penalties
related to each pending matter .
As a matter develops, the Corporation, in conjun ction with any
outside counsel handling the matter , evaluate s whether such
matter presents a loss contingency that is probable and
estimable, and, for the matters described below whether a loss in
excess of any accrued liability is reasonably possible in future
periods. Once the loss contingency is deemed to be both
probable and estimable, the Corporation will establish an accrued
liability and record a corresponding amount of litigation-related
expense. The Corporation continues to monitor the matter for
further developments that could affect the amount of the accrued
liability that has been previously established. Excluding expenses
of internal and external legal service providers, litigation-related
expense of $164 million and $823 million was recognized in 2021
and 2020.
For any matter disclosed  in this Note for which a loss in future
periods is reasonably possible and estimable (whether in excess
of an accrued liability or where there is no accrued liability) and
for representations and warranties exposures, the Corporation’ s
estimated range of possible loss is $0 to $1.0 billion in excess of
the accrued liability , if any , as of December 31, 2021.
The accrued  liability and estimated range of possible loss are
based upon currently available information and subject to
significant judgment, a variety of assumptions and known and
unknown uncertainties.  The matters underlyi ng the accrued
liability and estimated range of possible loss are unpredictable
and may change from time to time, and actual losses may vary
significantly from the current estimate and accrual. Theestimated range of possible loss does not represent the
Corporation’ s maximum loss exposure.
Information is provided below regarding the nature of the
litigation and, where specified, associated claimed damages.
Based on current knowledge, and taking into account accrued
liabilities, management does not believe that loss contingencies
arising from pending matters, including the matters described
below , will have a mate rial adverse effect on the consolidated
financial condition or liquidity of the Corporation. However , in light
of the significant judgment, variety of assumptions and
uncertainties involved in these matters, some of which are
beyond the Corporation’ s control, and the very large or
indeterminate damages sought in some of these matters, an
adverse outcome in one or more of these matters could be
material to the Corporati on’s business or results of operations for
any particular reporting period, or cause significant reputational
harm.
Ambac Bond Insurance Litigation
Ambac Assurance Corporation and the Segregated Account of
Ambac Assurance Corporation (together , Ambac ) have filed four
separate lawsuits against the Corporation and its subsidiaries
relating to bond insurance policies Ambac provided on certain
securitized pools of HELOCs, first-lien subprime home equity
loans, fixed-rate second-lien mortgage loans and negative
amortization pay-option adjustable-rate mortgag e loans. Ambac
alleges that they have paid or will pay claim s as a result of
defaults in the underlyin g loans and asserts that the defendants
misrepresented the characteristics of the underlying loans and/or
breached certain contractual representations and warranties
regarding the underwriting and servicing of the loans. In those
actions where the Corporation is named as a defendant, Ambac
contends the Corporation is liable on successor and vicarious
liability theories. These actions are at various procedural stages
with material developments provided below .
Ambac v . Countrywide I
Ambac named the Corp oration and several Countrywide entities
as defendan ts in an action filed on September 28, 2010 in New
York Suprem e Court asserting claims for fraudu lent inducement
as well as breach of contract and seeking damages in excess of
$2.2 billion, plus punitive damages. The Supreme Court
dismissed Ambac’ s fraudulent inducement claim, and on May 11,
2021, the First Department, a New York State  appellate court
(First Depar tment), affirmed the dismissal. The Supreme Court
has scheduled a non-jury trial for September 7, 2022 on the
contract claim that remains.
Ambac v . Countrywide II
On Decemb er 30, 2014, Ambac filed a compla int in New York
Supreme Court against the same defendants, claiming fraudulent
inducement against Countrywide, and success or and vicarious
liability against the Corporation, while seeking damages in
excess of $ 600 million, plus punitive damages.
Ambac v . Countrywide IV
On July 21, 2015, Amba c filed an action in New York Supreme
Court against Countrywide asserting the same claims for
fraudulent inducement that Ambac asserted in the now dismissed
Ambac v. Countrywide III. The complaint seeks damages in
excess of $350 million , plus punitive damages. On December 8,
2020, the New York Supreme Court dism issed Ambac’ s
complaint. On February 8, 2022, the First Department affirmed
the dismissal.
137 Bank of America
Ambac v . First Franklin
On April 16, 2012, Ambac filed an action against BANA, First
Franklin and various Merrill Lynch entities, including Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, in New York
Supreme Court relating to guaranty insurance Ambac provided
on a First Franklin securitization sponsored by Merrill Lynch. The
complaint alleges fraudu lent inducement and breach of contract,
including breach of contract claims against BANA based upon its
servicing of the loans in the securitization. Ambac seeks as
damages hundreds of millions of dollars that Ambac alleges it
has paid or will pay in claims.
Deposit Insurance Assessment
On January 9, 2017, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(FDIC) filed suit against  BANA  in the U.S. District Court for the
District of Columbia alleging failure to pay a December 15, 2016
invoice for additional deposit insurance assessm ents and interest
in the amount of $542 million for the quarters  ending June 30,
2013 through December 31, 2014.
On April 7, 2017, the FDIC amended its complaint to add a
claim for additional deposit insurance and intere st in the amount
of $583 millio n for the quarters ending March 31, 2012 through
March 31, 2013. The FDIC asserts these claims based on
BANA ’s alleged underreporting of counterparty exposures that
resulted in underpayment of assessments for those quarters and
its Enforcement Section is also conducting a parallel investigation
related to the same alleged reporting error. BANA disagrees with
the FDIC’s interpretation of the regulations as they existed during
the relevant time period and is defending itself against the FDIC’ s
claims. Pending final resolution, BANA  has pledged security
satisfactory to the FDIC related to the disputed additional
assessment amounts. On March 27, 2018, the U.S. District Court
for the District of Columbia denied BANA ’s partial motion to
dismiss certain of the FDIC’ s claims.
LIBOR
The Corporation, BANA  and certain Merrill Lynch entities have
been named as defenda nts along with most of the other LIBOR
panel banks  in a number of individual and putative class actions
by persons alleging they sustained losses on U.S. dollar LIBOR-
based financial instruments as a result of collusion or
manipulation by defendants regarding the setting of U.S. dollar
LIBOR. Plaintif fs assert a variety of claims, including antitrust,
Commodity Exchange Act, Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations (RICO), Securities Exchange Act of 1934, common
law fraud and breach of contract claims, and seek compensatory ,
treble and punitive damages, and injunctive relief. All but one of
the cases naming the Corporation and its affiliates relating to
U.S. dollar LIBOR are pending in the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York (“District Court”). The District Court
has dismissed all RICO claims, and dismissed all manipulation
claims again st Bank of America entities based on alleged trader
conduct. The District Court has also substantially limited the
scope of antitrust, Commodity Exchange Act and various other
claims, including by dismissing in their entirety certain individual
and putative class plain tiffs’ antitrust claims for lack of standing.
On December 30, 2021, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit affirmed the dismissal of these antitrust claims for
lack of standing. Certain individual and putative class actions
remain pending against the Corporation, BANA  and certain
Merrill Lynch  entities. On February 28, 2018, the District Court
granted certification of aclass of persons that purchased OTC swaps  and notes that
referenced U.S. dollar LIBOR from one of the U.S. dollar LIBOR
panel banks , limited to claims under Section 1 of the Sherman
Act.
U.S. Bank - Harborview and SURF/OWNIT Repurchase
Litigation
Beginning in 2011, U.S. Bank, National Association (U.S. Bank),
as trustee for the HarborV iew Mortgage Loan Trust 2005-10 and
various SURF/OWNIT  RMBS trusts filed compl aints against the
Corporation, Countrywide entities, Merrill Lynch entities and other
affiliates in New York Supreme Court alleging breaches of
representations and warranties. The defenda nts and certain
certificate-holders in the trusts agreed to settle the respective
matters in amounts not material to the Corporation, subject to
acceptance by U.S. Bank. The litigations have been stayed
pending finalization of the settlements.
NOTE 13 Shareholders’  Equity
Common Stock
Declared Quarterly Cash Dividends on Common Stock
Declaration Date Record Date Payment DateDividend
Per Share
February 2, 2022 March 4, 2022 March 25, 2022 $ 0.21 
October 20, 2021 December 3, 2021 December 31, 2021 0.21 
July 21, 2021 September 3, 2021 September 24, 2021 0.21 
April 22, 2021 June 4, 2021 June 25, 2021 0.18 
January 19, 2021 March 5, 2021 March 26, 2021 0.18 
In 2021, and through February 22, 2022.
The cash dividends paid per share of common stock were $0.78
$0.72 and $ 0.66 for 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively .
The table below summ arizes common stock repurchases
during 2021, 2020 and 2019.
Common Stock Repurchase Summary
(in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Total share repurchases, including
CCAR capital plan repurchases 615 227 956 
Purchase price of shares
repurchased and retired
CCAR capital plan repurchases $25,126 $7,025 $25,644 
Other authorized repurchases — — 2,500 
Total shares repurchased $25,126 $7,025 $28,144 
Due to uncertainty resulting from the pandemic, the Federal
Reserve imposed various restrictions on share repurchase
programs and dividends during 2020 and the first half of 2021.
Those restri ctions ended as of July 1, 2021 for large banks,
including the Corporation, and large banks return ed to the normal
restrictions under the Federal Reserve’ s stres s capital buffer
(SCB) framework.
During 2021, in connection with employee stock plans, the
Corporation issued 68 million shares of its common stock and, to
satisfy tax withholding obligations, repurchased 26 million  shares
of its common stock.  At Decembe r 31, 2021, the Corporation had
reserved 562 million unissued shares  of common stock for future
issuances under emplo yee stock plans, convertible notes and
preferred stock.(1)
(1)
Bank of America 138
Preferred Stock
The cash dividends declared on preferred stock were $1.4 billion
in each of 2021, 2020 and 2019.
On January 28, 2021, the Corporation issued approximately
37,000  shares of 4.125 % Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock,
Series PP for $915 million, with quarterly dividends commencing
in May 2021. The Serie s PP preferred stock has a liquidation
preference of $25,000  per share  and is subject to certain
restrictions in the event the Corporation fails to declare and pay
full dividends.
On October 26, 2021, the Corporation issued 52,000  shares
of 4.250 % Non-Cum ulative Preferred Stock, Series QQ for
$1.3 billion, with quarterly dividends commencing in February
2022. The Series QQ preferred stock has a liquidation preference
of $25,000  per share and is subject to certain restrictions in the
event the Corporation fails to declare and pay full dividends.
On January 25, 2022, the Corporation issued 70,000  shares
of 4.375 % Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series RR for
$1.8 billion. The Series RR preferred stock has a liquidation
preference of $25,000  per share  and is subject to certain
restrictions in the event the Corporation fails to declare and pay
full dividends.
On January 31, 2022, the Corporation issued 28,000  shares
of 4.75% Non-Cum ulative Preferred Stock, Series SS for
$700 million. The Series SS preferred stock has a liquidation
preference of $25,000  per share  and is subject to certain
restrictions in the event the Corporation fails to declare and pay
full dividends.
In 2021, the Corporation fully redeemed Series CC, Series EE
and Series T preferred stock at their liquidation preference values
for a total of $ 2.0 billion.
All series of preferred stock in the Preferred Stock Summary
table have a par value of $0.01 per share, are not subject to the
operation of a sinking fund, have no participation rights, and
with the exception of the Series L  Preferred Stock, are notconvertible. The holders of the Series B Preferred Stock and
Series 1 through 5 Preferred Stock have general voting rights
and vote together with the common stock. The holders of the
other series included in the table have no general voting rights.
All outstanding series of preferred stock of the Corporation have
preference over the Corporation’ s common stock with respect to
the payment of dividends and distribution of the Corporation’ s
assets in the event of a liquidation or dissolution. With the
exception of the Series B, F and G Preferred Stock, if any
dividend payable on these series is in arrears for three  or more
semi-annual or six or more quarterly dividend periods, as
applicable (whether consecutive or not), the holders of these
series and any other class or series of preferred stock ranking
equally as to payment of dividends and upon which equivalent
voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable (voting as
a single class) will be entitled to vote for the election of two
additional directors. These voting rights terminate when the
Corporation has paid in full dividends on these series for at least
two semi-annual or four quarterly dividend periods, as applicable,
following the dividend arrearage.
The 7.25% Non-Cum ulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred
Stock, Series L (Series L Preferred Stock) does not have early
redemption/call rights. Each share of the Series L Preferred
Stock may be converted at any time, at the option of the holder ,
into 20 shares of the Corporation’ s common stock plus cash in
lieu of fractional shares. The Corporation may cause some or all
of the Series L Preferred  Stock, at its option, at any time or from
time to time, to be converted into shares of common stock at the
then-applicable conversion rate if, for 20 trading days during any
period of 30 consecutive trading days, the closing price of
common stock exceeds 130 percent of the then-applicable
conversion price of the Series L Preferred Stock . If a conversion
of Series L Preferred Stock occurs at the option of the holder ,
subsequent to a dividend record date but prior to the dividend
payment date, the Corporation will still pay any accrued
dividends payable.
139 Bank of America
The table below presents a summary of perpetual preferred stock outstanding at December 31, 2021 .
Preferred Stock Summary
(Dollars in millions, except as noted)
Series DescriptionInitial
Issuance
DateTotal
Shares
OutstandingLiquidation
Preference
per Share
(in dollars)Carrying
ValuePer Annum
Dividend RateDividend per
Share
(in dollars)Annual
DividendRedemption Period
Series B7% Cumulative
RedeemableJune
1997 7,110  $ 100 $ 1 7.00 % $ 7 $ — n/a
Series EFloating Rate Non-
CumulativeNovember
2006 12,691  25,000  317 3-mo. LIBOR + 35 bps 1.01 13 On or after
November 15, 2011
Series FFloating Rate Non-
CumulativeMarch
2012 1,409  100,000  141 3-mo. LIBOR + 40 bps 4,055.55  6 On or after
March 15, 2012
Series GAdjustable Rate Non-
CumulativeMarch
2012 4,926  100,000  493 3-mo. LIBOR + 40 bps 4,055.55  20 On or after
March 15, 2012
Series L7.25% Non-Cumulative
Perpetual ConvertibleJanuary
2008 3,080,182  1,000  3,080  7.25 % 72.50  223 n/a
Series U Fixed-to-Floating Rate
Non-CumulativeMay
2013 40,000  25,000  1,000  5.2% to, but excluding,
6/1/23; 3-mo. LIBOR
+ 313.5  bps thereafter 52.00  52 On or after
June 1, 2023
Series X Fixed-to-Floating Rate
Non-CumulativeSeptember
2014 80,000  25,000  2,000  6.250 % to, but excluding,
9/5/24; 3-mo. LIBOR +
370.5  bps thereafter 62.50  125 On or after
September 5, 2024
Series Z Fixed-to-Floating Rate
Non-CumulativeOctober
2014 56,000  25,000  1,400  6.500 % to, but excluding,
10/23/24; 3-mo. LIBOR +
417.4  bps thereafter 65.00  91 On or after
October 23, 2024
Series AA Fixed-to-Floating Rate
Non-CumulativeMarch
2015 76,000  25,000  1,900  6.100 % to, but excluding,
3/17/25; 3-mo. LIBOR +
389.8  bps thereafter 61.00  116 On or after
March 17, 2025
Series DDFixed-to-Floating Rate
Non-CumulativeMarch
2016 40,000  25,000  1,000  6.300 % to, but excluding,
3/10/26; 3-mo. LIBOR +
455.3  bps thereafter 63.00  63 On or after
March 10, 2026
Series FFFixed-to-Floating Rate
Non-CumulativeMarch
2018 94,000  25,000  2,350  5.875 % to, but excluding,
3/15/28; 3-mo. LIBOR +
293.1  bps thereafter 58.75  138 On or after
March 15, 2028
Series GG 6.000 % Non-
CumulativeMay
2018 54,000  25,000  1,350  6.000  % 1.50 81 On or after
May 16, 2023
Series HH 5.875 % Non-
CumulativeJuly
2018 34,160  25,000  854 5.875  % 1.47 50 On or after
July 24, 2023
Series JJ Fixed-to-Floating Rate
Non-CumulativeJune
2019 40,000  25,000  1,000  5.125 % to, but excluding,
6/20/24; 3-mo. LIBOR +
329.2  bps thereafter 51.25  51 On or after
June 20, 2024
Series KK 5.375 % Non-
CumulativeJune
2019 55,900  25,000  1,398  5.375  % 1.34 75 On or after
June 25, 2024
Series LL  5.000 % Non-
CumulativeSeptember
2019 52,400  25,000  1,310  5.000  % 1.25 66 On or after
September 17, 2024
Series MMFixed-to-Floating Rate
Non-CumulativeJanuary
2020 44,000  25,000  1,100  4.300  % 43.00  47 On or after
January 28, 2025
Series NN4.375 % Non-
CumulativeOctober
2020 44,000  25,000  1,100  4.375  % 1.09 48 On or after
November 3, 2025
Series PP  4.125% Non-
Cumulative 4.125%January
2021 36,600  25,000  915 4.125  % 1.04 38 On or after
February 2, 2026
Series QQ 4.250% Non-
Cumulative 4.250%October
2021 52,000  25,000  1,300  4.250  % — — On or after
November 17, 2026
Series 1 Floating Rate Non-
CumulativeNovember
2004 3,275  30,000  98 3-mo. LIBOR + 75 bps 0.75 3 On or after
November 28, 2009
Series 2Floating Rate Non-
CumulativeMarch
2005 9,967  30,000  299 3-mo. LIBOR + 65 bps 0.76 9 On or after
November 28, 2009
Series 4Floating Rate Non-
CumulativeNovember
2005 7,010  30,000  210 3-mo. LIBOR + 75 bps 1.01 9 On or after
November 28, 2010
Series 5 Floating Rate Non-
CumulativeMarch
2007 14,056  30,000  422 3-mo. LIBOR + 50 bps 1.01 17 On or after
May 21, 2012
Issuance costs and certain adjustments (330)
Total   3,939,686   $24,708    
The Corporation may redeem series  of preferred stock on or after the redemption date, in whole or in part, at its option, at the liquidation preference plus declared and unpaid dividends. Series B and
Series L  Preferred Stock do not have early redemption/call rights.
Ownership is held in the form of depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock, paying a quarterly cash dividend, if and when declared.
Subject to 4.00% minimum rate per annum.
Ownership is held in the form of depositary shares, each representing  a 1/25th interest in a share of preferred stock, paying a semi-annual cash dividend, if and when declared, until the first
redemption date at which time, it adjusts to a quarterly cash dividend, if and when declared, thereafter .
Ownership is held in the form of depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,200th interest in a share of preferred stock, paying a quarterly cash dividend, if and when declared.
Subject to 3.00% minimum rate per annum.
n/a = not applicabl e(1)
 (2) (3)
(3)
(3)
(4)
(4)
(4)
(4)
 (4)
 (4)
(2)
(2)
(4)
(2)
(2)
 (4)
 (2)
(2)
(2)
(5) (6)
 (5)  (6)
 (5)  (3)
(5) (3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
Bank of America 140
NOTE 14  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
The table below presents the changes in accumulated OCI after-tax for 2021, 2020 and 2019.
(Dollars in millions) Debt SecuritiesDebit Valuation
Adjustments DerivativesEmployee
Benefit PlansForeign
Currency Total
Balance, December 31, 2018 $ (5,552)$ (531)$ (1,016)$ (4,304)$ (808)$ (12,211)
Net change 5,875 (963) 616 136 (86) 5,578 
Balance, December 31, 2019 $ 323 $ (1,494)$ (400)$ (4,168)$ (894)$ (6,633)
Net change 4,799 (498) 826 (98) (52) 4,977 
Balance, December 31, 2020 $ 5,122 $ (1,992)$ 426 $ (4,266)$ (946)$ (1,656)
Net change (2,077) 356 (2,306) 624 (45) (3,448)
Balance, December 31, 2021 $ 3,045 $ (1,636)$ (1,880)$ (3,642)$ (991)$ (5,104)
The table below present s the net change in fair value recorded in accumulated OCI, net realized gains and losses reclassified into
earnings and other changes for each component of OCI pre- and after-tax for 2021, 2020 and 2019.
PretaxTax
effectAfter-
tax PretaxTax
effectAfter-
tax Pretax Tax effectAfter-
tax
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Debt securities:
Net increase (decrease) in fair value $(2,749)$ 689 $(2,060)$6,819 $(1,712)$5,107 $8,020 $(2,000)$6,020 
Net realized gains reclassified into earnings (22) 5 (17) (411) 103 (308) (193) 48 (145)
Net change (2,771) 694 (2,077) 6,408 (1,609) 4,799 7,827 (1,952) 5,875 
Debit valuation adjustments:
Net increase (decrease) in fair value 449 (103) 346 (669) 156 (513) (1,276) 289 (987)
Net realized losses reclassified into earnings 13 (3) 10 19 (4) 15 18 6 24 
Net change 462 (106) 356 (650) 152 (498) (1,258) 295 (963)
Derivatives:
Net increase (decrease) in fair value (2,849) 703 (2,146) 1,098 (268) 830 692 (156) 536 
Reclassifications into earnings:
Net interest income (166) 48 (118) 6 (1) 5 104 (26) 78 
Compensation and benefits expense (55) 13 (42) (12) 3 (9) 2 — 2 
Net realized (gains) losses reclassified into earnings (221) 61 (160) (6) 2 (4) 106 (26) 80 
Net change (3,070) 764 (2,306) 1,092 (266) 826 798 (182) 616 
Employee benefit plans:
Net increase (decrease) in fair value 463 (72) 391 (381) 80 (301) 41 (21) 20 
Net actuarial losses and other reclassified into earnings 295 (67) 228 261 (63) 198 150 (36) 114 
Settlements, curtailments and other 5 — 5 5 — 5 3 (1) 2 
Net change 763 (139) 624 (115) 17 (98) 194 (58) 136 
Foreign currency:
Net increase (decrease) in fair value 296 (341) (45) (251) 199 (52) (13) (52) (65)
Net realized (gains) reclassified into earnings (5) 5 — (1) 1 — (110) 89 (21)
Net change 291 (336) (45) (252) 200 (52) (123) 37 (86)
Total other comprehensive income (loss) $(4,325)$ 877 $(3,448)$6,483 $(1,506)$4,977 $7,438 $(1,860)$5,578 
Reclassifications of pretax debt securities, DV A and foreign currency (gains) losses are recorded in other income in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Reclassifications of pretax employee benefit plan costs are recorded in other general operating expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
NOTE 15 Earnings Per Common Share
The calculation of EPS and diluted EPS for 2021, 2020 and 2019 is presented below . For more information on the calculation of EPS,
see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles .
(In millions, except per share information) 2021 2020 2019
Earnings per common share  
Net income $ 31,978 $ 17,894 $ 27,430 
Preferred stock dividends (1,421) (1,421) (1,432)
Net income applicable to common shareholders $ 30,557 $ 16,473 $ 25,998 
Average common shares issued and outstanding 8,493.3 8,753.2 9,390.5 
Earnings per common share $ 3.60 $ 1.88 $ 2.77 
Diluted earnings per common share   
Net income applicable to common shareholders $ 30,557 $ 16,473 $ 25,998 
Average common shares issued and outstanding 8,493.3 8,753.2 9,390.5 
Dilutive potential common shares 65.1 43.7 52.4 
Total diluted average common shares issued and outstanding 8,558.4 8,796.9 9,442.9 
Diluted earnings per common share $ 3.57 $ 1.87 $ 2.75 
Includes incremental dilutive shares from preferred stock, RSUs, restricted stock and warrants.(1)
(1)
(2)
(1)
(1)    
(2)    
(1)
(1)
141 Bank of America
For 2021, 2020 and 2019, 62 million average dilutive potential
common shares associated with the Series L preferred stock
were not included in the diluted share count because the result
would have been antidilutive under the “if-converted” method. For
2019, average warrants to purchase three million  shares of
common stock, were included in the diluted EPS calculation
under the treasury stock method. Substantially all of these
warrants were exercised on or before their expiration date of
January 16, 2019.
NOTE 16 Regulatory Requirements and
Restrictions
The Federal Reserve, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
(OCC) and FDIC (collectively , U.S. banking regulators) jointly
establish regulatory capital adequacy rules, including Basel 3, for
U.S. banking organizations. As a financial holding company , the
Corporation is subject to capital adequacy rules issued by the
Federal Reserve. The Corporation’ s banking entity affiliates are
subject to capital adequacy rules issued by the OCC.The Corporation and its primary banking entity affiliate,
BANA, are Advanced approaches institutions under Basel 3. As
Advanced approaches institutions, the Corp oration and its
banking entity affiliates are required to report regulatory risk-
based capital ratios and risk-weighted assets under both the
Standardized and Advanced approaches. The approach that
yields the lower ratio is used to assess capital adequacy ,
including under the Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) framework.
The Corporation is required to maintain a minimum
supplementary leverage ratio (SLR) of 3.0 percent plus a
leverage buffer of 2.0 percent in order to avoid certain restrictions
on capital distributions and discretionary bonus  payments. The
Corporation’ s insured depository institution subsidiaries are
required to maintain a minimum 6.0 perce nt SLR to be
considered well capitalized under the PCA  framework.
The table below presents capital ratios and related information
in accordance with Basel 3 Standardized and Advanced
approaches as measured at December 31, 2021 and 2020 for
the Corporation and BANA.
Regulatory Capital under Basel 3
Bank of America Corporation Bank of America, N.A.
Standardized
Approach Advanced
ApproachesRegulatory
MinimumStandardized
Approach Advanced
ApproachesRegulatory
Minimum
(Dollars in millions, except as noted) December 31, 2021
Risk-based capital metrics:   
Common equity tier 1 capital $171,759 $171,759 $182,526 $182,526 
Tier 1 capital 196,465 196,465 182,526 182,526 
Total capital 227,592 220,616 194,773 188,091 
Risk-weighted assets (in billions) 1,618 1,399 1,352 1,048 
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 10.6 % 12.3 % 9.5 % 13.5 % 17.4 % 7.0 %
Tier 1 capital ratio 12.1 14.0 11.0 13.5 17.4 8.5 
Total capital ratio 14.1 15.8 13.0 14.4 17.9 10.5 
Leverage-based metrics:
Adjusted quarterly average assets (in billions) $ 3,087 $ 3,087 $ 2,414 $ 2,414 
Tier 1 leverage ratio 6.4 % 6.4 % 4.0 7.6 % 7.6 % 5.0 
Supplementary leverage exposure (in billions) $ 3,604 $ 2,824 
Supplementary leverage ratio 5.5 % 5.0 6.5 % 6.0 
 December 31, 2020
Risk-based capital metrics:     
Common equity tier 1 capital $176,660 $176,660 $164,593 $164,593 
Tier 1 capital 200,096 200,096 164,593 164,593 
Total capital 237,936 227,685 181,370 170,922 
Risk-weighted assets (in billions) 1,480 1,371 1,221 1,014 
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 11.9 % 12.9 % 9.5 % 13.5 % 16.2 % 7.0 %
Tier 1 capital ratio 13.5 14.6 11.0 13.5 16.2 8.5 
Total capital ratio 16.1 16.6 13.0 14.9 16.9 10.5 
Leverage-based metrics:
Adjusted quarterly average assets (in billions) $ 2,719 $ 2,719 $ 2,143 $ 2,143 
Tier 1 leverage ratio 7.4 % 7.4 % 4.0 7.7 % 7.7 % 5.0 
Supplementary leverage exposure (in billions) $ 2,786 $ 2,525 
Supplementary leverage ratio 7.2 % 5.0 6.5 % 6.0 
As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, capital ratios are calculated using the regulatory capital rule that allows a five-year transition period related to the adoption of the CECL  accounting standard.
The capital conservation buffer and global systemically important bank (G-SIB) surcharge were 2.5 percent at both December 31, 2021 and 2020. At December 31, 2021 and 2020 the Corporation's
stress capital buffer of 2.5 percent was applied in place of the capital conservation buffer under the Standardized approach. The countercyclica l capital buffer for both periods was zero. The CET1
capital regulatory minimum is the sum of the CET1 capital ratio minimum of 4.5 percent, the Corporation’ s G-SIB surcharge of 2.5 percent and the Corporation’ s SCB or the capital conservation
buffer, as applicable, of 2.5 percent. The SLR regulatory minimum includes a leverage buf fer of 2.0 percent.
Risk-based capital regulatory minim ums at December 31, 2021 and 2020 are the minimum ratios under Basel 3, including a capital conservation buffer of 2.5 percent. The regulatory minimums for
the leverage ratios as of both period ends are the percent required to be considered well capitalized under the PCA  framework.
Total capital under the Advanced approaches dif fers from the Standardized approach due to dif ferences in the amount permitted in Tier 2 capital related to the qualifying allowance for credit losses.
Reflects total average assets adjusted for certain Tier 1 capital deductions.
Supplementary leverage exposure for the Corporation at December 31, 2020 reflects the temporary exclusion of U.S. Treasury securities and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks. The temporary relief
expired after March 31, 2021 and is not reflected in supplementary leverage exposure at December 31, 2021.(1)  (1)  (2) (1)  (1)  (3)
(4)
(5)
 (6)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
Bank of America 142
The capital adequacy rules issued by the U.S. banking
regulators require institutions to meet the established minimums
outlined in the table above. Failure to meet the minimum
requirements can lead to certain mandatory and discretionary
actions by regulators that could have a material adverse impact
on the Corporation’ s financial position. At December 31, 2021
and 2020, the Corporation and its banking entity affiliates were
well capitalized.
Due to uncertainty from the pandemic, the Federal Reserve
imposed various restrictions on share repurchas e programs and
dividends during 2020 and the first half of 2021. In conjunction
with its release of 2021 CCAR supervisory stress test results, the
Federal Reserve announced those restrictions would end as of
July 1, 2021 for large banks, including the Corporation, and large
banks would be subject to the normal restric tions under the
Federal Reserve’ s SCB framework. For more information, see
Note 13 – Shareholders’  Equity .
Other Regulatory Matters
The Feder al Reserve  requires the Corp oration’ s bank
subsidiaries to maintain reserve requirements based on a
percentage of certain deposit liabilities. The average daily
reserve balance requirements, in excess of vault cash,
maintained by the Corporation with the Federal Reserve Bank
were $0 for 2021 and $3.8 billion for 2020. At December 31, 2021
and 2020, the Corporation had cash and cash equivalents in the
amount of $4.0 billion and $4.9 billion, and securities with a fair
value of $10.6 billion and $16.8 billion that were segregated in
compliance with securities regulations. Cash held on deposit with
the Federal Reserve Bank to meet reserve requirements and
cash and cash equivalents segregated in compliance with
securities regulations are components of restricted cash. For
more information, see Note 10 – Securities Financing
Agreements, Short-term  Borrowings and Restricted Cash . In
addition, at December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Corporation had
cash deposited with clearing organizations of $28.6 billion and
$10.9 billion primarily recorded in other assets on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Bank Subsidiary Distributions
The primary sources of funds for cash distributions by the
Corporation to its shareholders are capital distributions received
from its bank subsidiaries, BANA  and Bank of America California,
N.A. In 2021, the Corporation received dividends of $15.6 billion
from BANA  and $ 29 million from Bank of America California, N.A.
The amount of dividends that a subsidiary bank may declare
in a calendar year without OCC approval is the subsidiary bank’ s
net profits for that year combined with its retained net profits for
the precedin g two years . Retained net profits, as defined by the
OCC, consist of net income less dividends declared during the
period. In 2022, BANA  can declare and pay dividends of
approximately $14.7 billion to the Corporation plus an additional
amount equal to its retained net profits for 2022 up to the date of
any such dividend declaration. Bank of America California, N.A.
can pay dividends of $234 millio n in 2022 plus an additional
amount equal to its retained net profits for 2022 up to the date of
any such dividend declaration.NOTE 17 Employee Benefit Plans
Pension and Postretirement Plans
The Corporation sponsors a qualified noncontributory trusteed
pension plan (Qualified Pension Plan), a number of
noncontributory nonqua lified pension plans and postretirement
health and life plans that cover eligible employees. Non-U.S.
pension plans sponsore d by the Corporation vary based on the
country and local practices.
The Qualified Pension Plan has a balance guarantee feature
for account balances with participant-select ed investments,
applied at the time a benefit payment is made from the plan that
effectively provides principal protection for participant balances
transferred and certain compensation credits. The Corporation is
responsible for funding any shortfall on the guarantee feature.
Benefits earned under the Qualified Pension Plan have been
frozen. Thereafter , the cash balance accounts continue to earn
investment credits or interest credits in accordance with the
terms of the plan document.
The Corporation has an annuity contract that guarantees the
payment of benefits vested under a terminated U.S. pension plan
(Other Pension Plan). The Corporation, under a supplemental
agreement, may be responsible for or benefit from actual
experience and investment performance of the annuity assets.
The Corporation made no contribution under this agreement in
2021 or 2020. Contribut ions may be required in the future under
this agreement.
The Corpora tion’s noncontributory , nonqualified pension plans
are unfunde d and provide supplemental defined  pension benefits
to certain eligible employees.
In addition to retirement pension benefits, certain benefits-
eligible employees may become eligible to continue participation
as retirees in health care and/or life insurance plans sponsored
by the Corporation. These plans are referred to as the
Postretirement Health and Life Plans.
The Pension  and Postretirement Plans table summarizes the
changes in the fair value  of plan assets, changes in the projected
benefit obligation (PBO), the funded status of both the
accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) and the PBO, and the
weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit
obligations for the pension plans and postretirement plans at
December 31, 2021 and 2020. The estimate of the Corporation’ s
PBO associ ated with these plans considers various actuarial
assumptions, including assumptions for mortality rates and
discount rates. The discount rate assumptions are derived from a
cash flow matching technique that utilizes rates that are based on
Aa-rated corporate bonds with cash flows that match estimated
benefit paym ents of each of the plans. The increases in the
weighted-average discount rates in 2021 resulted in a decrease
to the PBO of $895 million at December 31, 2021. The decreases
in the weigh ted-average discount rates in 2020 resulted in an
increase to the PBO of approximately $1.9 billion  at December
31, 2020. Significant gains and losses related to changes in the
PBO for 2021 and 2020  primarily resulted from changes in the
discount rate.
143 Bank of America
Pension and Postretirement
Plans 
Qualified
Pension PlanNon-U.S.
Pension PlansNonqualified and Other
Pension PlansPostretirement
Health and Life Plans
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020
Fair value, January 1 $ 21,776  $ 20,275  $ 3,078  $ 2,696  $ 2,789  $ 2,666  $ 143 $ 199 
Actual return on plan assets 1,215  2,468  62 379 (55) 285 — 1 
Company contributions — — 24 23 87 86 38 6 
Plan participant contributions — — 1 1 — — 107 110 
Settlements and curtailments — — (11) (61) — — — — 
Benefits paid (913) (967) (84) (57) (236) (248) (171) (174)
Federal subsidy on benefits paid  n/a n/a  n/a n/a  n/a n/a — 1 
Foreign currency exchange rate changes  n/a n/a (39) 97  n/a n/a  n/a n/a
Fair value, December 31 $ 22,078  $ 21,776  $ 3,031  $ 3,078  $ 2,585  $ 2,789  $ 117 $ 143 
Change in projected benefit obligation         
Projected benefit obligation, January 1 $ 16,427  $ 15,361  $ 3,340  $ 2,887  $ 3,005  $ 2,919  $ 1,007  $ 989 
Service cost — — 28 20 — 1 5 5 
Interest cost 414 500 45 49 67 90 24 32 
Plan participant contributions — — 1 1 — — 107 110 
Plan amendments — — — 3 — — — — 
Settlements and curtailments — — (11) (61) — — — — 
Actuarial loss (gain) (252) 1,533  (152) 396 (83) 243 (44) 43 
Benefits paid (913) (967) (84) (57) (236) (248) (171) (173)
Federal subsidy on benefits paid  n/a n/a  n/a n/a  n/a n/a — 1 
Foreign currency exchange rate changes  n/a n/a (51) 102  n/a n/a — — 
Projected benefit obligation, December 31 $ 15,676  $ 16,427  $ 3,116  $ 3,340  $ 2,753  $ 3,005  $ 928 $ 1,007  
Amounts recognized on Consolidated Balance Sheet
Other assets $ 6,402  $ 5,349  $ 550 $ 428 $ 777 $ 812 $ — $ — 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities — — (635) (690) (945) (1,028 ) (811) (864)
Net amount recognized, December 31 $ 6,402  $ 5,349  $ (85) $ (262)$ (168) $ (216)$ (811) $ (864)
Funded status, December 31         
Accumulated benefit obligation $ 15,676  $ 16,427  $ 3,031  $ 3,253  $ 2,753  $ 3,005   n/a n/a
Overfunded (unfunded) status of ABO 6,402  5,349  — (175) (168) (216)  n/a n/a
Provision for future salaries — — 85 87 — —  n/a n/a
Projected benefit obligation 15,676  16,427  3,116  3,340  2,753  3,005  $ 928 $ 1,007  
Weighted-average assumptions, December 31         
Discount rate 2.86 % 2.57 % 1.85 % 1.37 % 2.80 % 2.33 % 2.85 % 2.48 %
Rate of compensation increase n/a n/a 4.46 4.11 4.00 4.00 n/a n/a
Interest-crediting rate 4.83 % 5.02 % 1.90 1.58 4.22 4.49  n/a n/a
The measurement date for all of the above plans was December 31 of each year reported.
n/a = not applicable
The Corpora tion’s estimate of its contributions to be made to
the Non-U.S. Pension Plans, Nonqualified and Other Pension
Plans, and Postretireme nt Health and Life Plans in 2022 is $30
million, $91 million and $42 million, respectively . The Corporation
does not expect to make a contribution to the Qualified Pension
Plan in 2022. It is the policy of the Corporation to fund no less
than the minimum funding amountrequired by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974 (ERISA).
Pension Plans with ABO and PBO in excess of plan assets as
of Decembe r 31, 2021 and 2020 are presen ted in the table
below . For these plans , funding strategies vary due to legal
requirements and local practices.
Plans with ABO and PBO in Excess of Plan Assets
Non-U.S.
Pension PlansNonqualified
and Other
Pension Plans
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2021 2020
PBO $ 841 $ 900 $ 945 $ 1,028 
ABO 780 841 945 1,028 
Fair value of plan assets 207 211 1 1 (1)
(1)
Bank of America 144
Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost
 Qualified Pension Plan Non-U.S. Pension Plans
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019 2021 2020 2019
Components of net periodic benefit cost (income)
Service cost $ — $ — $ — $ 28 $ 20 $ 17 
Interest cost 414 500 593 45 49 65 
Expected return on plan assets (1,173) (1,154) (1,088) (70) (66) (99)
Amortization of net actuarial loss 193 173 135 19 9 6 
Other — — — 5 8 4 
Net periodic benefit cost (income) $ (566) $ (481)$ (360) $ 27 $ 20 $ (7)
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net cost for years ended
December 31       
Discount rate 2.57 % 3.32 % 4.32 % 1.35 % 1.81 % 2.60 %
Expected return on plan assets 5.75 6.00 6.00 2.30 2.57 4.13 
Rate of compensation increase  n/a n/a n/a 4.11 4.10 4.49 
Nonqualified and
Other Pension PlansPostretirement Health
and Life Plans
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019 2021 2020 2019
Components of net periodic benefit cost (income)
Service cost $ — $ 1 $ 1 $ 5 $ 5 $ 5 
Interest cost 67 90 113 24 32 38 
Expected return on plan assets (49) (71) (95) (3) (4) (5)
Amortization of net actuarial loss (gain) 63 50 34 20 29 (24)
Other — — — — (2) (2)
Net periodic benefit cost (income) $ 81 $ 70 $ 53 $ 46 $ 60 $ 12 
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net cost for years ended
December 31       
Discount rate 2.33 % 3.20 % 4.26 % 2.48 % 3.27 % 4.25 %
Expected return on plan assets 1.88 2.77 3.73 2.00 2.00 2.00 
Rate of compensation increase 4.00 4.00 4.00   n/a n/a n/a
n/a = not applicable
The asset valuation method used to calculate the expected
return on plan assets component of net periodi c benefit cost for
the Qualified Pension Plan recognizes 60 percent of the prior
year’s market gains or losses at the next measurement date with
the remaining 40 percent spread equally over the subsequent
four years.
Gains and losses for all benefit plans except postretirement
health care are recognized in accordance with the standard
amortization provisions of the applicable accounting guidance.
Net periodic postretirement health and life expense was
determined using the “projected unit credit” actuarial method. For
the Postretirement Health and Life Plans, 50 percent of the
unrecognized gain or loss at the beginning of the year (or at
subsequent remeasurement) is recognized on a level basis
during the year .Assumed health care cost trend rates affect the
postretirement benefit obligation and benefit cost reported for the
Postretirement Health and Life Plans. The assumed health care
cost trend rate used to measure the expected  cost of benefits
covered by the Postretirement Health and Life Plans is 6.25
percent for 2022, reduci ng in steps to 5.00 perce nt in 2027 and
later years.
The Corporation’ s net periodic benefit cost (income)
recognized for the plans is sensitive to the discount rate and
expected return on plan assets. For the Qualifie d Pension Plan,
Non-U.S. Pension Plans, Nonqualified and Other Pension Plans,
and Postretirement Health and Life Plans, a 25 bp decline in
discount rates and expected return on assets would not have had
a significant impact on the net periodic benefit cost for 2021.
Pretax Amounts included in Accumulated OCI and
OCI
 Qualified
Pension PlanNon-U.S.
Pension PlansNonqualified
and Other
Pension PlansPostretirement
Health and
Life Plans Total
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020
Net actuarial loss (gain) $3,425 $3,912 $456 $628 $945 $987 $ 4 $ 66 $4,830 $5,593 
Prior service cost (credits) — — 17 18 — — (3) (4) 14 14 
Amounts recognized in accumulated OCI $3,425 $3,912 $473 $646 $945 $987 $ 1 $ 62 $4,844 $5,607 
Current year actuarial loss (gain) $(294)$ 219 $(154)$ 79 $ 21 $ 29 $ (41)$ 47 $(468)$ 374 
Amortization of actuarial gain (loss) and
prior service cost (193) (173) (19) (12) (63) (50) (20) (27) (295) (262)
Current year prior service cost (credit) — — — 3 — — — — — 3 
Amounts recognized in OCI $(487)$ 46 $(173)$ 70 $ (42)$ (21)$ (61)$ 20 $(763)$ 115 
145 Bank of America
Plan Assets
The Qualified Pension Plan has been establishe d as a retirement
vehicle for participants, and trusts have been established to
secure benefits promised under the Qualified Pension Plan. The
Corporation’ s policy is to invest the trust asse ts in a prudent
manner for the exclusive purpose of providing benefits to
participants and defraying reasonable expenses of
administration. The Corporation’ s investment strategy is designed
to provide a total return  that, over the long term, increases the
ratio of assets to liabilities. The strategy attempts to maximize the
investment return on assets at a level of risk deemed appropriate
by the Corporation while complying with ERISA  and any
applicable regulations and laws. The investment strategy utilizes
asset allocation as a principal determinant for establishing the
risk/return profile of the assets. Asset allocation ranges are
established, periodically reviewed and adjusted as funding levels
and liability  characte ristics change. Active and passive
investment managers are employed to help enhance the
risk/return profile of the assets. An additiona l aspect of the
investment strategy used to minimize risk (part of the asset
allocation plan) includes matching the exposure of participant-
selected investment measures.
The assets of the Non-U.S. Pension Plans are primarily
attributable to a U.K. pension plan. This U.K. pension plan’ s
assets are invested prudently so that the bene fits promised to
members are provided with consideration given to the nature and
the duration of the plans' liabilities. The selected assetallocation strategy is designed to achieve a higher return than the
lowest risk strategy .
The expected rate of return on plan assets assumption was
developed through analysis of historical market returns, historical
asset class volatility and correlations, current market conditions,
anticipated future asset allocations, the funds’  past experience
and expectations on potential future market returns. The
expected return on plan assets assumption is determined using
the calculated market-related value for the Qualified Pension
Plan and the Other Pension Plan and the fair value for the Non-
U.S. Pension Plans and Postretirement Health and Life Plans.
The expected return on plan assets assumption represents a
long-term average view of the performance of the assets in the
Qualified Pension Plan, the Non-U.S. Pension Plans, the Other
Pension Plan, and Postretirement Health and Life Plans, a return
that may or may not be achieved during any one calendar year.
The Other Pension Plan is invested solely in an annuity contract,
which is primarily inves ted in fixed-income securities structured
such that asset maturities match the duration of the plan’ s
obligations.
The target allocations for 2022 by asset category for the
Qualified Pension Plan, Non-U.S. Pension Plans, and
Nonqualified and Other Pension Plans are presented in the table
below . Equity securities for the Qualified Pension Plan include
common stock of the Corporation in the amount s of $398 million
(1.80 percent of total plan assets) and $274 million (1.26 perce nt
of total plan assets) at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
2022 Target Allocation
Percentage
Asset CategoryQualified
Pension PlanNon-U.S.
Pension PlansNonqualified
and Other
Pension Plans
Equity securities 15 - 50% 0 - 25% 0 - 5%
Debt securities 45 - 80% 40 - 70% 95 - 100%
Real estate 0 - 10% 0 - 15% 0 - 5%
Other 0 - 5% 10 - 40% 0 - 5%
Fair Value Measurements
For more information on fair value measurements, including descriptions of Level 1, 2 and 3 of the fair value hierarchy and the
valuation methods employed by the Corporation,  see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  and Note 20 – Fair Value
Measurements . Combined plan investment assets measured at fair value by level and in total at December 31, 2021 and 2020 are
summarized in the Fair V alue Measurements table.
Bank of America 146
Fair Value Measurements
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Money market and interest-bearing cash $ 1,339 $ — $ — $ 1,339 $ 1,380 $ — $ — $ 1,380 
U.S. government and government agency obligations 4,948 934 6 5,888 4,590 1,238 7 5,835 
Corporate debt — 4,900 — 4,900 — 5,021 — 5,021 
Non-U.S. debt securities 925 1,165 — 2,090 1,021 1,122 — 2,143 
Asset-backed securities — 1,485 — 1,485 — 1,967 — 1,967 
Mutual and exchange traded funds 1,395 — — 1,395 1,362 — — 1,362 
Collective investment funds — 3,419 — 3,419 — 3,199 — 3,199 
Common and preferred stocks 4,826 — — 4,826 4,438 — — 4,438 
Real estate investment trusts 87 — — 87 73 — — 73 
Participant loans — — 7 7 — — 7 7 
Other investments 1 29 630 660 1 29 684 714 
Total plan investment assets, at fair value $ 13,521 $ 11,932 $ 643 $ 26,096 $ 12,865 $ 12,576 $ 698 $ 26,139 
Other investments includes insurance annuity contracts of $ 612 million and $ 664 million and other various investments of $ 48 million and $ 50 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
At Decem ber 31, 2021 and 2020, excludes $1.7 billion and $1.6 billion of certain investments that are measured at fair value using the net asset value per share (or its equivalent) as a practical
expedient and are not required to be classified in the fair value hierarchy . Prior period has been revised to conform to current-period presentation.
The Level 3 Fair Value Measurements table presents a reconciliation of all plan investment assets measured at fair value using
significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) during 2021, 2020 and 2019.
Level 3 Fair Value Measurements
 Balance
January 1Actual Return on
Plan Assets Still
Held at the
Reporting DatePurchases, Sales
and SettlementsBalance
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2021
U.S. government and government agency obligations $ 7 $ — $ (1)$ 6 
Participant Loans 7 — — 7 
Other investments 684 (5) (49) 630 
Total $ 698 $ (5)$ (50)$ 643 
 2020
U.S. government and government agency obligations $ 8 $ — $ (1)$ 7 
Participant Loans 8 — (1) 7 
Other investments 628 6 50 684 
Total $ 644 $ 6 $ 48 $ 698 
2019
U.S. government and government agency obligations $ 9 $ — $ (1)$ 8 
Private real estate 5 — (5) — 
Participant loans 12 — (4) 8 
Other investments 576 6 46 628 
Total $ 602 $ 6 $ 36 $ 644 
Projected Benefit Payments
Benefit payments projected to be made from the Qualified Pension Plan, Non-U.S. Pension Plans, Nonqualified and Other Pension
Plans, and Postretirement Health and Life Plans are presented in the table below .
Projected Benefit Payments
(Dollars in millions)Qualified
Pension Plan Non-U.S.
Pension Plans Nonqualified
and Other
Pension Plans Postretirement
Health and
Life Plans 
2022 $ 948 $ 134 $ 239 $ 78 
2023 938 142 244 74 
2024 949 135 225 71 
2025 936 142 223 67 
2026 941 140 218 64 
2027 - 2031 4,395 668 940 275 
Benefit payments expected to be made from the plan’ s assets.
Benefit payments expected to be made from a combination of the plans’  and the Corporation’ s assets.
Benefit payments (net of retiree contributions) expected to be made from a combination of the plans’  and the Corporation’ s assets.(1)
 (2)
(1)
(2)
(1) (2) (2) (3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
147 Bank of America
Defined Contribution Plans
The Corpor ation mainta ins qualified and non-qualified defined
contribution retirement plans. The Corporation recorded expense
of $1.2 billion in both 2021 and 2020 and $1.0 billion in 2019
related to the qualified defined contribution plans. At December
31, 2021 and 2020, 173 millio n and 189 millio n shares of the
Corporation’ s common stock were held by these plans.
Payments to the plans for dividends on common stock were $139
million, $138 millio n and $133 millio n in 2021, 2020 and 2019,
respectively .
Certain non-U.S. employees are covered under defined
contribution pension plans that are separately  administered in
accordance with local laws.
NOTE 18  Stock-based Compensation Plans
The Corporation administers a number of equity compensation
plans, with awards being  granted predominantly from the Bank of
America Key Employee Equity Plan (KEEP). On April 20, 2021,
Bank of America’ s shareholders approved the amendment and
restatement of the KEEP, changing its name to the “Bank of
America Corporation Equity Plan” and increasing the number of
shares available for grant by 115 million. Subsequent to the
amendment and restatement, 715 million shares of the
Corporation’ s common stock are authorized to be used for grants
of awards under this plan.
During 2021 and 2020, the Corporation granted 99 million and
86 million RSU awards to certain employees under the KEEP .
These RSUs were autho rized to settle predominantly in shares of
common stock of the Corporation. Certain RSUs will be settled in
cash or contain settlement provisions that subject these awards
to variable accounting whereby compensat ion expense is
adjusted to fair value based on changes in the share price of the
Corporation’ s common stock up to the settlem ent date. Of the
RSUs grante d in 2021 and 2020, 81 million and 29 million will
generally vest over four years and 18 millio n and 57 millio n will
vest over three years . The four-year awards vest primarily in one-
fourth increm ents on each of the first four anniversaries of the
grant date while the three-year awards vest primarily in one-third
increments on each of the first three anniversaries of the grant
date, provided that the employee remains continuously employed
with the Corporation during that time, and will be expensed
ratably over the vesting period, net of estimated forfeitures, for
non-retirement eligible employees based on the grant-date fair
value of the shares. Of the RSUs granted in 2021 and 2020 that
vest over four years , 27 million and 25 million do not include
retirement eligibility . For all other RSUs granted to employees
who are retirement eligib le, they are deemed authorized as of the
beginning of the year preceding the grant date when the
incentive award plans are generally approved. As a result, the
estimated value is expensed ratably over the year preceding the
grant date. The compens ation cost for the stock-based plans was
$3.0 billion, $2.1 billion and $2.1 billion, and the related income
tax benefit was $723 millio n, $505 millio n and $511 millio n for
2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively . At December 31, 2021, there
was an estimated $2.3 billion of total unrecognized compensation
cost related to certain share-based compensation awards that is
expected to be recognized over a period of up to four years , with
a weighted-average period of 2.4 years.Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units
The total fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units
vested in 2021, 2020 and 2019 was $2.3 billion, $2.3 billion and
$2.6 billion, respectively . The table below presen ts the status at
December 31, 2021 of the share-settled restricted stock and
restricted stock units and changes during 2021.
 Stock-settled Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock
Units
Shares/UnitsWeighted-
average Grant
Date Fair Value
Outstanding at January 1, 2021 167,953,229 $ 30.60 
Granted 96,804,487 32.32 
Vested (69,337,350) 30.19 
Canceled (10,369,524) 32.58 
Outstanding at December 31, 2021 185,050,842 31.54 
Cash-settled Restricted Units
At December 31, 2021, approximately two million cash-settled
restricted units remain outstanding. In 2021, 2020 and 2019, the
amount of cash paid to settle the RSUs that vested was $72
million, $ 81 million and $ 84 million, respectively .
NOTE 19 Income T axes
The components of income tax expense for 2021, 2020 and 2019
are presented in the table below .
Income Tax Expense
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Current income tax expense    
U.S. federal $ 1,076 $ 1,092 $ 1,136 
U.S. state and local 775 1,076 901 
Non-U.S. 985 670 852 
Total current expense 2,836 2,838 2,889 
Deferred income tax expense    
U.S. federal 962 (799) 2,001 
U.S. state and local 491 (233) 223 
Non-U.S. (2,291) (705) 211 
Total deferred expense (838) (1,737) 2,435 
Total income tax expense $ 1,998 $ 1,101 $ 5,324 
Total income tax expen se does not reflect the tax effects of
items that are included in OCI each period. For more information,
see Note 14 – Accumulate d Other Comprehensive Income
(Loss) . Other tax effects included in OCI each period resulted in
a benefit of $877 million in 2021 and expense of $1.5 billion, and
$1.9 billion in 2020 and 2019.
Income tax expense for 2021, 2020 and 2019 varied from the
amount computed by applying the statutory income tax rate to
income before income taxes. The Corporation’ s federal statutory
tax rate was 21 percent for 2021, 2020 and 2019 . A reconciliat ion
of the expected U.S. federal income tax expense, calculated by
applying the federal statutory tax rate, to the Corporation’ s actual
income tax expense, and the effective tax rates for 2021, 2020
and 2019 are presented in the following table.
Bank of America 148
Reconciliation of Income Tax Expense
 Amount Percent Amount Percent Amount Percent
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Expected U.S. federal income tax expense $ 7,135 21.0 %$ 3,989 21.0 %$ 6,878 21.0 %
Increase (decrease) in taxes resulting from:
State tax expense, net of federal benefit 1,087 3.2 728 3.8 1,283 3.9 
Affordable housing/energy/other credits (3,795) (11.2) (2,869) (15.1) (2,365) (7.2)
Tax law changes (2,050) (6.0) (699) (3.7) — — 
Tax-exempt income, including dividends (352) (1.0) (346) (1.8) (433) (1.3)
Changes in prior-period UTBs, including interest (155) (0.5) (41) (0.2) (613) (1.9)
Nondeductible expenses 206 0.6 324 1.7 290 0.9 
Rate differential on non-U.S. earnings 45 0.1 218 1.1 504 1.5 
Other (123) (0.3) (203) (1.0) (220) (0.6)
Total income tax expense $ 1,998 5.9 %$ 1,101 5.8 %$ 5,324 16.3 %
The reconciliation of the beginning unrecognized tax benefits
(UTB) balan ce to the ending balance is presen ted in the table
below .
Reconciliation of the Change in Unrecognized Tax
Benefits
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Balance, January 1 $ 1,340 $ 1,175 $ 2,197 
Increases related to positions taken
during the current year 208 238 238 
Increases related to positions taken
during prior years 265 99 401 
Decreases related to positions
taken during prior years (413) (172) (1,102)
Settlements (23) — (541)
Expiration of statute of limitations (55) — (18)
Balance, December 31 $ 1,322 $ 1,340 $ 1,175 
The sum of the positions taken during prior years differs from the $(155) million, $(41) million
and $(613) million in the Reconciliation of Income Tax Expense table due to temporary items,
state items and jurisdictional offsets, as well as the inclusion of interest in the Reconciliation of
Income Tax Expense table.
At December 31, 2021,  2020 and 2019, the balance of the
Corporation’ s UTBs which would, if recogn ized, affect the
Corporation’ s effective tax rate was $959 million, $976 million
and $814 million, respectively . Included in the UTB balance are
some items the recogniti on of which would not affect the effective
tax rate, such as the tax effect of certain temporary differences,
the portion of gross state UTBs that would be offset by the tax
benefit of the associated federal deduction and the portion of
gross non-U.S. UTBs that would be offset by tax reductions in
other jurisdictions.
It is reasona bly possible that the UTB balance may decrease
by as much as $398 million during the next 12 months, since
resolved items will be removed from the balance whether their
resolution results in payment or recognition.
The Corporation recognized interest expense of $32 million
and $9 million in 2021 and 2020 and an interest benefit of $19
million in 2019. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, the
Corporation’ s accrual for interest and penalties that related to
income taxes, net of taxes and remittances, was $167 million and
$130 million.
The Corporation files income tax returns in more than 100
state and non-U.S. jurisd ictions each year. The IRS and other tax
authorities in countries and states in which the Corporation has
significant business operations examine tax returnsperiodically (continuousl y in some jurisdictions).  The table below
summarizes the status of examinations by major jurisdiction for
the Corporation and various subsidiaries at December 31, 2021.
Tax Examination Status
Years under
Examination Status at
December 31 2021
United States 2017-2021 Field Examination
California 2012-2014 Appeals
California 2015-2017 Field Examination
New York 2016-2018 Field Examination
United Kingdom 2019 Field Examination
All tax years subsequent to the years shown remain subject to examination.
Field examination for tax year 2020 to begin in 2022.
Significant components of the Corporation’ s net deferred tax
assets and liabilities at December 31, 2021  and 2020 are
presented in the table below .
Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities
 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Deferred tax assets   
Net operating loss carryforwards $ 9,360 $ 7,717 
Allowance for credit losses 3,097 4,701 
Security, loan and debt valuations 2,746 2,571 
Lease liability 2,508 2,400 
Accrued expenses 1,626 1,481 
Employee compensation and retirement benefits 1,392 1,582 
Credit carryforwards 705 484 
Other 1,160 1,412 
Gross deferred tax assets 22,594 22,348 
Valuation allowance (1,988) (2,346)
Total deferred tax assets, net of valuation
   allowance 20,606 20,002 
  
Deferred tax liabilities
Equipment lease financing 3,083 3,101 
Right-to-use asset 2,358 2,296 
Fixed assets 2,082 1,957 
ESG-related tax credit investments 1,387 1,930 
Available-for-sale securities 1,016 1,701 
Other 1,527 1,570 
Gross deferred tax liabilities 11,453 12,555 
Net deferred tax assets $ 9,153 $ 7,447  (1)
(1)
(1)    (1)
(2)
(1)    
(2) 
149 Bank of America
The table below summarizes the deferred tax assets and
related valuation allowances recognized for the net operating
loss (NOL) and tax credit carryforwards at December 31, 2021.
Net Operating Loss and Tax Credit Carryforward
Deferred Tax Assets
(Dollars in millions)Deferred
Tax AssetValuation
AllowanceNet
Deferred
Tax AssetFirst Year
Expiring
Net operating losses -
U.K. $ 7,713 $ — $ 7,713 None
Net operating losses -
other non-U.S. 494 (253) 241 Various
Net operating losses -
U.S. states 1,153 (610) 543 Various
Foreign tax credits 705 (705) — After 2028
Represents U.K. broker-dealer net operating losses that may be carried forward indefinitely .
The net operating losses and related valuation allowances for U.S. states before considering
the benefit of federal deductions were $ 1.5 billion and $ 772 million.
Management concluded  that no valua tion allowance was
necessary to reduce the deferred tax assets related to the U.K.
NOL carryforwards and U.S. federal and certain state NOL
carryforwards since estimated future taxable income will be
sufficient to utilize these assets prior to their expiration. The
majority of the Corporat ion’s U.K. net deferred tax assets, which
consist primarily of NOLs, are expected to be realized by certain
subsidiaries over an extended number of years. Management’ s
conclusion is supported by financial results, profit forecasts for
the relevant entities and the indefinite period to carry forward
NOLs. Howe ver, a material change in those estimates could lead
management to reassess such valuation allowance conclusions.
At December 31, 2021, U.S. federal income taxes had not
been provided on approximately $5.0 billion of temporary
differences associated with investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries
that are essentially permanent in duration. If the Corporation
were to record the associated deferred tax liability, the amount
would be approximately $ 1.0 billion.
NOTE 20 Fair V alue Measurements
Under applicable accounting standards, fair value is defined as
the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to
transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most
advantageous market for the asset or liabilit y in an orderly
transaction between market participants on the measurement
date. The Corporation determines the fair values of its financial
instruments under applicable accounting stand ards that require
an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize
the use of unobservable inputs. The Corporation categorizes its
financial instruments into three levels based on the established
fair value hierarchy and conducts a review of fair value hierarchy
classifications on a quarterly basis. Transfers into or out of fair
value hierarchy classifications are made if the significant inputs
used in the financial models measuring the fair values of the
assets and liabilities become unobservable or observable in the
current marketplace. For more information regarding the fair
value hierarchy and how the Corporation measures fair value,
see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles . The
Corporation accounts for certain financial instruments under thefair value option. For more information, see Note 21 – Fair Value
Option.
Valuation Techniques
The following sections outline the valuation methodologies for the
Corporation’ s assets and liabilities. While the Corporation
believes its valuation methods are appropriate and consistent
with other market participants, the use of different methodologies
or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial
instruments could result in a different estimate of fair value at the
reporting date.
During 2021, there were no significant changes to valuation
approaches or techniques that had, or are expected to have, a
material impact on the Corporation’ s consolidated financial
position or results of operations.
Trading Account Assets and Liabilities and Debt
Securities
The fair values of trading account assets and liabilities are
primarily based on actively traded markets where prices are
based on either direct market quotes or observed transactions.
The fair values of debt securities are generally based on quoted
market prices or marke t prices for similar assets. Liquidity is a
significant factor in the determination of the fair values of trading
account assets and liabilities and debt securities. Market price
quotes may not be readily available for some positions such as
positions within a market sector where trading activity has slowed
significantly or ceased. Some of these instruments are valued
using a discounted cash flow model, which estimates the fair
value of the securities using internal credit risk, and interest rate
and prepayment risk models that incorporate management’ s best
estimate of current key assumptions such as default rates, loss
severity and prepayment rates. Principal and interest cash flows
are discounted using an observable discount rate for similar
instruments with adjustments that managem ent believes a
market participant would consider in determining  fair value for the
specific secu rity. Other instruments are valued using a net asset
value approach which considers the value of the underlying
securities. Underlying assets are valued using external pricing
services, where available, or matrix pricing based on the vintages
and ratings. Situations of illiquidity generally are triggered by the
market’ s perception of credit uncertainty regarding a single
company or a specific market sector . In these instances, fair
value is determined based on limited available market
information and other factors, principally from reviewing the
issuer ’s financial statements and changes in credit ratings made
by one or more rating agencies.
Derivative Assets and Liabilities
The fair values of derivative assets and liabilities traded in the
OTC market are determined using quantitative models that utilize
multiple market inputs including interest rates, prices and indices
to generate continuous yield or pricing curves and volatility
factors to value the position. The majority of market inputs are
actively quoted and can be validated through external sources,
including brokers, mark et transactions and third-party pricing
services. When third-party pricing services are used, the
methods and assumptions are reviewed by the Corporation.
Estimation risk is greater for derivative asset and liability
positions that are either option-based or have longer maturity(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
Bank of America 150
dates where observable market inputs are less readily available,
or are unobservable, in which case, quantitative-based
extrapolations of rate, price or index scenarios are used in
determining fair values. The fair values of deriv ative assets and
liabilities include adjust ments for market liquid ity, counterparty
credit quality and other instrument-specific factors, where
appropriate. In addition, the Corporation incorp orates within its
fair value measurements of OTC derivatives a valuation
adjustment to reflect the credit risk associated with the net
position. Positions are netted by counterparty , and fair value for
net long exposures is adjusted for counterparty credit risk while
the fair value for net short exposures is adjusted for the
Corporation’ s own credit risk. The Corporation also incorporates
FVA within its fair value measurements to include funding costs
on uncollateralized derivatives and derivati ves where the
Corporation is not perm itted to use the collateral it receives. An
estimate of severity of loss is also used in the determination of
fair value, primarily based on market data.
Loans and Loan Commitments
The fair values of loans and loan commitments are based on
market prices, where available, or discounted cash flow analyses
using mark et-based credit spreads of comparable debt
instruments or credit derivatives of the specific borrower or
comparable borrowers. Results of discounted cash flow analyses
may be adjusted, as appropriate, to reflect other market
conditions or the perceived credit risk of the borrower .
Mortgage Servicing Rights
The fair values of MSRs are primarily determined using an
option-adjusted spread valuation approach, which factors in
prepayment risk to determine the fair value of MSRs. This
approach consists of projecting servicing cash flows under
multiple interest rate scenarios and discounting these cash flows
using risk-adjusted discount rates.
Loans Held-for-sale
The fair values of LHFS are based on quoted market prices,
where available, or are determined by discounting estimated
cash flows using interest rates approximating the Corporation’ s
current origination rates for similar loans adjusted to reflect the
inherent credit risk. The borrower-specific credit risk is embedded
within the quoted market prices or is implied by considering loan
performance when selecting comparables.Short-term Borrowings and Long-term Debt
The Corporation issues structured liabilities that have coupons or
repayment terms linked to the performance of debt or equity
securities, interest rates,  indices, currencies or commodities. The
fair values of these structured liabilities are estimated using
quantitative models for the combined derivative and debt portions
of the notes. These models incorporate observable and, in some
instances, unobservable inputs including security prices, interest
rate yield curves, option volatility , currency , commodity or equity
rates and correlations among these inputs. The Corporation also
considers the impact of its own credit spread in determining the
discount rate used to value these liabilities. The credit spread is
determined by reference to observable spreads in the secondary
bond market.
Securities Financing Agreements
The fair values of certain reverse repurcha se agreements,
repurchase agreements and securities borrowed transactions are
determined using quantitative models, including discounted cash
flow models  that require the use of multiple market inputs
including interest rates and spreads to generate continuous yield
or pricing curves, and volatility factors. The majority of market
inputs are actively quoted and can be validated  through external
sources, including brokers, market transactions and third-party
pricing services.
Deposits
The fair values of deposits are determined using quantitative
models, including discounted cash flow models that require the
use of multiple market inputs including interest rates and spreads
to generate continuous yield or pricing curves, and volatility
factors. The majority of market inputs are actively quoted and can
be validated  through external sources, including  brokers, market
transactions and third-party pricing services. The Corporation
considers the impact of its own credit spread in the valuation of
these liabilities. The credit risk is determined by reference to
observable credit spreads in the secondary cash market.
Asset-backed Secured Financings
The fair values of asset-backed secured financings are based on
external broker bids, where available, or are determined by
discounting estimated cash flows using interest rates
approximating the Corporation’ s current origination rates for
similar loans adjusted to reflect the inherent credit risk.
151 Bank of America
Recurring Fair Value
Assets and liabilities carried at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2021 and 2020, including financial instruments that the
Corporation accounts for under the fair value option, are summarized in the following tables.
December 31, 2021
 Fair Value Measurements
(Dollars in millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3Netting
Adjustments Assets/Liabilities
at Fair Value
Assets      
Time deposits placed and other short-term investments $ 707 $ — $ — $ — $ 707 
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased
under agreements to resell — 150,665 — — 150,665 
Trading account assets:      
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 44,599 803 — — 45,402 
Corporate securities, trading loans and other — 31,601 2,110 — 33,711 
Equity securities 61,425 38,383 190 — 99,998 
Non-U.S. sovereign debt 3,822 25,612 396 — 29,830 
Mortgage trading loans, MBS and ABS:
U.S. government-sponsored agency guaranteed — 25,645 109 — 25,754 
Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS — 10,967 1,418 — 12,385 
Total trading account assets 109,846 133,011 4,223 — 247,080 
Derivative assets 34,748 310,581 3,133 (313,118) 35,344 
AFS debt securities:      
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 198,071 1,074 — — 199,145 
Mortgage-backed securities:      
Agency — 46,339 — — 46,339 
Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations — 3,380 — — 3,380 
Non-agency residential — 267 316 — 583 
Commercial — 19,604 — — 19,604 
Non-U.S. securities — 11,933 — — 11,933 
Other taxable securities — 2,690 71 — 2,761 
Tax-exempt securities — 15,381 52 — 15,433 
Total AFS debt securities 198,071 100,668 439 — 299,178 
Other debt securities carried at fair value:
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 575 — — — 575 
Non-agency residential MBS — 343 242 — 585 
Non-U.S. and other securities 2,580 5,155 — — 7,735 
Total other debt securities carried at fair value 3,155 5,498 242 — 8,895 
Loans and leases — 7,071 748 — 7,819 
Loans held-for-sale — 4,138 317 — 4,455 
Other assets 7,657 2,915 1,572 — 12,144 
Total assets $ 354,184 $ 714,547 $ 10,674 $ (313,118)$ 766,287 
Liabilities      
Interest-bearing deposits in U.S. offices $ — $ 408 $ — $ — $ 408 
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under
agreements to repurchase — 139,641 — — 139,641 
Trading account liabilities:     
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 19,826 313 — — 20,139 
Equity securities 41,744 6,491 — — 48,235 
Non-U.S. sovereign debt 10,400 13,781 — — 24,181 
Corporate securities and other — 8,124 11 — 8,135 
Total trading account liabilities 71,970 28,709 11 — 100,690 
Derivative liabilities 35,282 314,380 5,795 (317,782) 37,675 
Short-term borrowings — 4,279 — — 4,279 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 8,359 3,130 — — 11,489 
Long-term debt — 28,633 1,075 — 29,708 
Total liabilities $ 115,611 $ 519,180 $ 6,881 $ (317,782)$ 323,890 
Amounts represent the impact of legally enforceable master netting agreements and also cash collateral held or placed with the same counterparties.
Includes securities  with a fair value of $10.6 billion that were segregated in compliance with securities regulations or deposited with clearing organizations. This amount is included in the parenthetical
disclosure on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Trading account assets also includes certain commodities inventory of $752 million that is accounted for at the lower of cost or net realizable value,
which is the current selling price less any costs to sell.
Includes MSRs of $ 818 million which are classified as Level 3 assets.
Total recurring Level 3 assets were 0.34 percent of total consolidated assets, and total recurring Level 3 liabilities were 0.24 percent of total consolidated liabilities.(1)
(2)
(3)
 (4)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Bank of America 152
December 31, 2020
Fair Value Measurements
(Dollars in millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3Netting
Adjustments Assets/Liabilities at
Fair Value
Assets      
Time deposits placed and other short-term investments $ 1,649 $ — $ — $ — $ 1,649 
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under
agreements to resell — 108,856 — — 108,856 
Trading account assets:      
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 45,219 3,051 — — 48,270 
Corporate securities, trading loans and other — 22,817 1,359 — 24,176 
Equity securities 36,372 31,372 227 — 67,971 
Non-U.S. sovereign debt 5,753 20,884 354 — 26,991 
Mortgage trading loans, MBS and ABS:
U.S. government-sponsored agency guaranteed — 21,566 75 — 21,641 
Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS — 8,440 1,365 — 9,805 
Total trading account assets 87,344 108,130 3,380 — 198,854 
Derivative assets 15,624 416,175 2,751 (387,371) 47,179 
AFS debt securities:      
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 115,266 1,114 — — 116,380 
Mortgage-backed securities:      
Agency — 61,849 — — 61,849 
Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations — 5,260 — — 5,260 
Non-agency residential — 631 378 — 1,009 
Commercial — 16,491 — — 16,491 
Non-U.S. securities — 13,999 18 — 14,017 
Other taxable securities — 2,640 71 — 2,711 
Tax-exempt securities — 16,598 176 — 16,774 
Total AFS debt securities 115,266 118,582 643 — 234,491 
Other debt securities carried at fair value:
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 93 — — — 93 
Non-agency residential MBS — 506 267 — 773 
Non-U.S. and other securities 2,619 8,625 — — 11,244 
Total other debt securities carried at fair value 2,712 9,131 267 — 12,110 
Loans and leases — 5,964 717 — 6,681 
Loans held-for-sale — 1,349 236 — 1,585 
Other assets 9,898 3,850 1,970 — 15,718 
Total assets $ 232,493 $ 772,037 $ 9,964 $ (387,371)$ 627,123 
Liabilities      
Interest-bearing deposits in U.S. offices $ — $ 481 $ — $ — $ 481 
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under
agreements to repurchase — 135,391 — — 135,391 
Trading account liabilities:     
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 9,425 139 — — 9,564 
Equity securities 38,189 4,235 — — 42,424 
Non-U.S. sovereign debt 5,853 8,043 — — 13,896 
Corporate securities and other — 5,420 16 — 5,436 
Total trading account liabilities 53,467 17,837 16 — 71,320 
Derivative liabilities 14,907 412,881 6,219 (388,481) 45,526 
Short-term borrowings — 5,874 — — 5,874 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 12,297 4,014 — — 16,311 
Long-term debt — 31,036 1,164 — 32,200 
Total liabilities $ 80,671 $ 607,514 $ 7,399 $ (388,481)$ 307,103 
Amounts represent the impact of legally enforceable master netting agreements and also cash collateral held or placed with the same counterparties.
Includes securities  with a fair value of $16.8 billion that were segregated in compliance with securities regulations or deposited with clearing organizations. This amount is included in the parenthetical
disclosure on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Trading account assets also includes certain commodities inventory of $576 million that is accounted for at the lower of cost or net realizable value,
which is the current selling price less any costs to sell.
Includes MSRs of $ 1.0 billion which are classified as Level 3 assets.
Total recurring Level 3 assets were 0.35 percent of total consolidated assets, and total recurring Level 3 liabilities were 0.29 percent of total consolidated liabilities.(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
153 Bank of America
The following tables present a reconciliation of all assets and
liabilities measured at fair value on a recurr ing basis using
significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) during 2021, 2020 and
2019, including net realized and unrealized gains (losses)
included in earnings and accumulated OCI. Transfers into Level 3
occur primarily due to decreased price observability , andtransfers out of Level 3 occur primarily due to increased price
observability . Transfers occur on a regular basis for long-term
debt instruments due to changes in the impact of unobservable
inputs on the value of the embedded derivative in relation to the
instrument as a whole.
Level 3 – Fair Value Measurements 
Balance
January 1Total
Realized/Unrealized
Gains (Losses) in
Net
Income Gains
(Losses)
in OCI GrossGross
Transfers
into
Level 3 Gross
Transfers
out of
Level 3 Balance
December 31Change in
Unrealized
Gains
(Losses) in
Net Income
Related to
Financial
Instruments
Still Held (Dollars in millions) Purchases Sales Issuances Settlements
Year Ended December 31, 2021
Trading account assets:        
Corporate securities, trading loans and
other $1,359 $ (17)$ — $ 765 $(437)$ — $ (327)$1,218 $ (451)$ 2,110 $ (79)
Equity securities 227 (18) — 103 (68) — — 112 (166) 190 (44)
Non-U.S. sovereign debt 354 31 (20) 18 — — (13) 26 — 396 34 
Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other
MBS 1,440 (58) — 518 (721) 7 (167) 771 (263) 1,527 (91)
Total trading account assets 3,380 (62) (20) 1,404 (1,226) 7 (507) 2,127 (880) 4,223 (180)
Net derivative assets (liabilities) (3,468) 927 — 521 (653) — 293 (74) (208) (2,662) 800 
AFS debt securities:           
Non-agency residential MBS 378 (11) (111) — (98) — (45) 304 (101) 316 8 
Non-U.S. securities 18 (4) — — (10) — (4) — — — — 
Other taxable securities 71 — (7) 8 — — — — (1) 71 — 
Tax-exempt securities 176 20 — — — — (2) — (142) 52 (19)
Total AFS debt securities 643 5 (118) 8 (108) — (51) 304 (244) 439 (11)
Other debt securities carried at fair value –
Non-agency residential MBS 267 1 — — (45) — (37) 101 (45) 242 10 
Loans and leases 717 62 — 59 (13) 70 (180) 46 (13) 748 65 
Loans held-for-sale 236 13 (6) 132 (1) — (79) 26 (4) 317 18 
Other assets 1,970 7 3 26 (202) 144 (383) 9 (2) 1,572 3 
Trading account liabilities – Corporate
securities
   and other (16) 6 — — — (1) — — — (11) — 
Long-term debt (1,164) (92) 13 (6) 15 (12) 98 (65) 138 (1,075) (113)
Year Ended December 31, 2020
Trading account assets:      
Corporate securities, trading loans and
other $1,507 $ (138)$ (1)$ 430 $(242)$ 10 $ (282)$ 639 $ (564)$ 1,359 $ (102)
Equity securities 239 (43) — 78 (53) — (3) 58 (49) 227 (31)
Non-U.S. sovereign debt 482 45 (46) 76 (61) — (39) 150 (253) 354 47 
Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other
MBS 1,553 (120) (3) 577 (746) 11 (96) 757 (493) 1,440 (92)
Total trading account assets 3,781 (256) (50) 1,161 (1,102) 21 (420) 1,604 (1,359) 3,380 (178)
Net derivative assets (liabilities) (2,538) (235) — 120 (646) — (112) (235) 178 (3,468) (953)
AFS debt securities:        
Non-agency residential MBS 424 (2) 3 23 (54) — (44) 158 (130) 378 (2)
Non-U.S. securities 2 1 — — (1) — (1) 17 — 18 1 
Other taxable securities 65 — — 9 (4) — — 1 — 71 — 
Tax-exempt securities 108 (21) 3 — — — (169) 265 (10) 176 (20)
Total AFS debt securities 599 (22) 6 32 (59) — (214) 441 (140) 643 (21)
Other debt securities carried at fair value –
Non-agency residential MBS 299 26 — — (180) — (24) 190 (44) 267 3 
Loans and leases 693 (4) — 145 (76) 22 (161) 98 — 717 9 
Loans held-for-sale 375 26 (28) — (489) 691 (119) 93 (313) 236 (5)
Other assets 2,360 (288) 3 178 (4) 224 (506) 5 (2) 1,970 (374)
Trading account liabilities – Equity
securities (2) 1 — — — — — — 1 — — 
Trading account liabilities – Corporate
securities
   and other (15) 8 — (7) (3) — 1 — — (16) — 
Long-term debt (1,149) (46) 2 (104) — (47) 218 (52) 14 (1,164) (5)
Assets (liabilities). For assets, increase (decrease) to Level 3 and for liabilities, (increase) decrease to Level 3.
Includes gains (losses) reported in earnings in the following income statement line items: Trading account assets/liabilities - predominantly market making and similar activities; Net derivative assets
(liabilities) - market making and similar activities and other income; AFS debt securities - other income; Other debt securities carried at fair value - other income; Loans and leases - market making
and similar activities and other income; Loans held-for-sale - other income; Other assets - primarily market making and similar activities and other income related to MSRs; Long-term debt - market
making and similar activities.
Includes unrealize d gains (losses) in OCI on AFS debt securities, foreign currency translation adjustments and the impact of changes in the Corp oration’ s credit spreads on long-term debt accounted
for under the fair value option. Amounts include net unrealized losses of $ 19 million and $ 41 million related to financial instruments still held at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Net derivative assets (liabilities) include derivative assets of $ 3.1 billion and $ 2.8 billion and derivative liabilities of $ 5.8 billion and $ 6.2 billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Amounts represent instruments that are accounted for under the fair value option.
Issuances represent loan originations and MSRs recognized following securitizations or whole-loan sales.(1)
(2) (3) (2)
(4)
(5,6)
(5,6)
(6,7)
(5)
(4)
(5,6)
(5,6)
(6,7)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
Settlements primarily represent the net change in fair value of the MSR asset due to the recognition of modeled cash flows and the passage of time.(7)
Bank of America 154
Level 3 – Fair Value Measurements 
(Dollars in millions)Balance
January 1Total
Realized/Unrealized
Gains (Losses) in
Net
 Income Gains
(Losses)
in OCIGrossGross
Transfers
into
Level 3Gross
Transfers
out of
Level 3Balance
December 31Change in
Unrealized
Gains
(Losses) in
Net Income
Related to
Financial
Instruments
Still Held Purchases Sales Issuances Settlements
Year Ended December 31, 2019
Trading account assets:       
Corporate securities, trading loans and
other $1,558 $ 105 $ — $ 534 $(390)$ 18 $ (578)$ 699 $ (439)$ 1,507 $ 29 
Equity securities 276 (12) — 38 (87) — (9) 79 (46) 239 (18)
Non-U.S. sovereign debt 465 46 (12) 1 — — (51) 39 (6) 482 47 
Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other
MBS 1,635 99 (2) 662 (899) — (175) 738 (505) 1,553 26 
Total trading account assets 3,934 238 (14) 1,235 (1,376) 18 (813) 1,555 (996) 3,781 84 
Net derivative assets (liabilities) (935) (37) — 298 (837) — (97) 147 (1,077) (2,538) 228 
AFS debt securities:        
Non-agency residential MBS 597 13 64 — (73) — (40) 206 (343) 424 — 
Non-U.S. securities 2 — — — — — — — — 2 — 
Other taxable securities 7 2 — — — — (5) 61 — 65 — 
Tax-exempt securities — — — — — — — 108 — 108 — 
Total AFS debt securities 606 15 64 — (73) — (45) 375 (343) 599 — 
Other debt securities carried at fair value -
Non-agency residential MBS 172 36 — — — — (17) 155 (47) 299 38 
Loans and leases 338 — — 230 (35) 217 (57) — — 693 (1)
Loans held-for-sale 542 48 (6) 12 (71) 36 (245) 59 — 375 22 
Other assets 2,932 (81) 19 — (10) 179 (683) 5 (1) 2,360 (267)
Trading account liabilities – Equity
securities — (2) — — — — — — — (2) (2)
Trading account liabilities – Corporate
securities and other (18) 8 — (1) (3) (1) — — — (15) — 
Long-term debt (817) (59) (64) — — (40) 180 (350) 1 (1,149) (55)
Assets (liabilities). For assets, increase (decrease) to Level 3 and for liabilities, (increase) decrease to Level 3.
Includes gains/los ses reported in earnings in the following income state ment line items: Trading account assets/liabilities - predominantly market making and similar activities; Net derivative assets
(liabilities) - market making and similar activities and other income; AFS debt securities - predominantly other income; Other debt securities carried at fair value - other income; Loans and leases -
market making and similar activities and other income; Loans held-for-sale - other income; Other assets - primarily other income related to MSRs; Long-term debt - market making and similar
activities.   
Includes unrealize d gains (losses) in OCI on AFS debt securities, foreign currency translation adjustments and the impact of changes in the Corp oration’ s credit spreads on long-term debt accounted
for under the fair value option. Amounts include net unrealized gains of $ 3 million related to financial instruments still held at December 31, 2019.
Net derivative assets (liabilities) include derivative assets of $ 2.2 billion and derivative liabilities of $ 4.8 billion at December 31, 2019.
Amounts represent instruments that are accounted for under the fair value option.
Issuances represent loan originations and MSRs recognized following securitizations or whole-loan sales.
Settlements primarily represent the net change in fair value of the MSR asset due to the recognition of modeled cash flows and the passage of time.
Transfers into long-term debt include a $1.4 billion transfer in of Level 3 derivat ive assets to reflect the Corporation 's change to present bifurcated embedded derivatives with their respective host
instruments.(1)
(2)  (3) (2)
(4,8)
(5,6)
(5,6)
 (6,7)
(5,8)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
155 Bank of America
The followin g tables present information about significant unobservable inputs related to the Corporation’ s material categories of
Level 3 financial assets and liabilities at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Quantitative Information about Level 3 Fair V alue Measurements at December 31, 2021
(Dollars in millions) Inputs
Financial InstrumentFair
ValueValuation
TechniqueSignificant Unobservable
InputsRanges of
InputsWeighted
Average 
Loans and Securities 
Instruments backed by residential real estate assets $ 1,269  
Discounted cash flow ,
Market comparablesYield 0% to 25% 6 %
Trading account assets – Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS 338 Prepayment speed 1% to 40% CPR 19% CPR
Loans and leases 373 Default rate 0% to 3% CDR 1% CDR
AFS debt securities – Non-agency residential 316 Price $0 to $168 $92
Other debt securities carried at fair value – Non-agency residential 242 Loss severity 0% to 43% 13 %
Instruments backed by commercial real estate assets $ 298 
Discounted cash
flowYield 0% to 25% 4 %
Trading account assets – Corporate securities, trading loans and other 138 Price $0 to $101 $57
Trading account assets – Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS 77 
AFS debt securities – Other taxable securities 71 
Loans held-for-sale 12 
Commercial loans, debt securities and other $ 4,212  
Discounted cash flow ,
Market comparablesYield 0% to 19% 10 %
Trading account assets – Corporate securities, trading loans and other 1,972  Prepayment speed 10% to 20% 16 %
Trading account assets – Non-U.S. sovereign debt 396 Default rate 3% to 4% 4 %
Trading account assets – Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS 1,112  Loss severity 35% to 40% 37 %
AFS debt securities – Tax-exempt securities 52 Price $0 to $189 $73
Loans and leases 375 Long-dated equity volatilities 45% n/a
Loans held-for-sale 305 
Other assets, primarily auction rate securities $ 754 
Discounted cash flow ,
Market comparablesPrice $10 to $96 $91
Discount rate 9 % n/a
MSRs $ 818 
Discounted cash
flowWeighted-average life, fixed rate 0 to 14 years 4 years
Weighted-average life, variable rate 0 to 10 years 3 years
Option-adjusted spread, fixed rate 7% to 14% 9 %
Option-adjusted spread, variable rate 9% to 15% 12 %
Structured liabilities
Long-term debt $(1,075 )
Discounted cash flow ,
Market comparables,
Industry standard
derivative pricing Yield 0% to 19% 18 %
Equity correlation 3% to 100% 80 %
Long-dated equity volatilities 5% to 78% 36 %
Price $0 to $125 $82
Natural gas forward price $2/MMBtu to $ 8/MMBtu $4 /MMBtu
Net derivative assets (liabilities)
Credit derivatives $ (104)
Discounted cash flow ,
Stochastic recovery
correlation modelCredit spreads 7 to 155 bps 61 bps
Upfront points 16 to 100 points  68 points
Prepayment speed 15% CPR n/a
Default rate 2% CDR n/a
Credit correlation 20% to 60% 55 %
Price $0 to $120 $53
Equity derivatives $(1,710 )Industry standard
derivative pricing Equity correlation 3% to 100% 80 %
Long-dated equity volatilities 5% to 78% 36 %
Commodity derivatives $ (976)
Discounted cash flow ,
Industry standard
derivative pricing Natural gas forward price $2/MMBtu to $ 8/MMBtu $4 /MMBtu
Correlation 65% to 85% 76 %
Power forward price $11 to $103 $32
Volatilities 41% to 69% 63 %
Interest rate derivatives $ 128 
Industry standard
derivative pricing Correlation (IR/IR) (1)% to 90% 54 %
Correlation (FX/IR) (1)% to 58% 44 %
Long-dated inflation rates  (10)% to 11% 3 %
Long-dated inflation volatilities 0% to 2% 2 %
Interest rate volatilities 0% to 2% 1 %
Total net derivative assets (liabilities) $(2,662 )
For loans and securities, structured liabilities and net derivative assets (liabilities), the weighted average is calculated based upon the absolute fair value of the instruments.
The categories are aggregated based upon product type which differs from financial statement classification. The following is a reconciliation  to the line items in the table on page 152: Trading
account assets – Corporate securitie s, trading loans and other of $2.1 billion, Trading account assets – Non-U.S. sovereign debt of $396 million, Trading account assets – Mortgage trading loans,
MBS and ABS of $1.5 billion, AFS debt securities of $439 million, Other debt securities carried at fair value - Non-agency residen tial of $242 million, Other assets, including MSRs, of $1.6 billion,
Loans and leases of $ 748 million and LHFS of $ 317 million.
Includes models such as Monte Carlo simulation and Black-Scholes.
Includes models such as Monte Carlo simulation, Black-Scholes and other methods that model the joint dynamics of interest, inflation and foreign exchange rates.
The weighted-average life is a product of changes in market rates of interest, prepayment rates and other model and cash flow assumptions.
CPR = Constant Prepayment Rate
CDR = Constant Default Rate
MMBtu = Million British thermal units
IR = Interest Rate
FX = Foreign Exchange
n/a = not applicable(1)
(2)
(5)
(5)
(3)
(3)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
Bank of America 156
Quantitative Information about Level 3 Fair V alue Measurements at December 31, 2020
(Dollars in millions) Inputs
Financial InstrumentFair
ValueValuation
TechniqueSignificant Unobservable
InputsRanges of
InputsWeighted
Average 
Loans and Securities 
Instruments backed by residential real estate assets $ 1,543  
Discounted cash
flow, Market
comparablesYield (3)% to 25% 6 %
Trading account assets – Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS 467 Prepayment speed 1% to 56% CPR 20% CPR
Loans and leases 431 Default rate 0% to 3% CDR 1% CDR
AFS debt securities - Non-agency residential 378 Price $0 to $168 $110
Other debt securities carried at fair value - Non-agency residential 267 Loss severity 0% to 47% 18 %
Instruments backed by commercial real estate assets $ 407 
Discounted cash
flowYield 0% to 25% 4 %
Trading account assets – Corporate securities, trading loans and other 262 Price $0 to $100 $52
Trading account assets – Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS 43 
AFS debt securities, primarily other taxable securities 89 
Loans held-for-sale 13 
Commercial loans, debt securities and other $ 3,066  
Discounted cash flow ,
Market comparablesYield  0% to 26% 9 %
Trading account assets – Corporate securities, trading loans and other 1,097  Prepayment speed 10% to 20% 14 %
Trading account assets – Non-U.S. sovereign debt 354 Default rate 3% to 4% 4 %
Trading account assets – Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS 930 Loss severity 35% to 40% 38 %
AFS debt securities – Tax-exempt securities 176 Price  $0 to $142 $66
Loans and leases 286 Long-dated equity volatilities 77% n/a
Loans held-for-sale 223 
Other assets, primarily auction rate securities $ 937 
Discounted cash flow ,
Market comparablesPrice $10 to $97 $91
Discount rate 8% n/a
MSRs $ 1,033  
Discounted cash
flowWeighted-average life, fixed rate 0 to 13 years 4 years
Weighted-average life, variable rate 0 to 10 years 3 years
Option-adjusted spread, fixed rate 7% to 14% 9 %
Option-adjusted spread, variable rate 9% to 15% 12 %
Structured liabilities
Long-term debt $(1,164 )
Discounted cash flow ,
Market comparables,
Industry standard
derivative pricing Yield  0% to 11% 9 %
Equity correlation  2% to 100% 64 %
Long-dated equity volatilities 7% to 64% 32 %
Price $0 to $124 $86
Natural gas forward price $1/MMBtu to $ 4/MMBtu $3/MMBtu
Net derivative assets (liabilities)
Credit derivatives $ (112)
Discounted cash flow ,
Stochastic recovery
correlation modelYield 5% n/a
Upfront points 0 to 100 points  75 points
Prepayment speed 15% to 100% CPR 22% CPR
Default rate 2% CDR n/a
Credit correlation 21% to 64% 57 %
Price $0 to $122 $69
Equity derivatives $(1,904 )Industry standard
derivative pricing Equity correlation 2% to 100% 64 %
Long-dated equity volatilities 7% to 64% 32 %
Commodity derivatives $(1,426 )Discounted cash flow ,
Industry standard
derivative pricing Natural gas forward price $1/MMBtu to $ 4/MMBtu $3/MMBtu
Correlation 39% to 85% 73 %
Volatilities 23% to 70% 39 %
Interest rate derivatives $ (26)
Industry standard
derivative pricingCorrelation (IR/IR) 15% to 96% 34 %
Correlation (FX/IR) 0% to 46% 3 %
Long-dated inflation rates G(7)% to 84% 14 %
Long-dated inflation volatilities 0% to 1% 1 %
Interest rates volatilities 0% to 2% 1 %
Total net derivative assets (liabilities) $(3,468 )
For loans and securities, structured liabilities and net derivative assets (liabilities), the weighted average is calculated based upon the absolute fair value of the instruments.
The categories are aggregated based upon product type which differs from financial statement classification. The following is a reconciliation  to the line items in the table on page 153: Trading
account assets – Corporate securitie s, trading loans and other of $1.4 billion, Trading account assets – Non-U.S. sovereign debt of $354 million, Trading account assets – Mortgage trading loans,
MBS and ABS of $1.4 billion, AFS debt securities of $643 million, Other debt securities carried at fair value - Non-agency residen tial of $267 million, Other assets, including MSRs, of $2.0 billion,
Loans and leases of $ 717 million and LHFS of $ 236 million.
Includes models such as Monte Carlo simulation and Black-Scholes.
Includes models such as Monte Carlo simulation, Black-Scholes and other methods that model the joint dynamics of interest, inflation and foreign exchange rates.
The weighted-average life is a product of changes in market rates of interest, prepayment rates and other model and cash flow assumptions.
CPR = Constant Prepayment Rate
CDR = Constant Default Rate
MMBtu = Million British thermal units
IR = Interest Rate
FX = Foreign Exchange
n/a = not applicable(1)
(2)
(5)
(5)
(3)
(3)
(3)
 (4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
157 Bank of America
In the previous tables, instruments backed by residential and
commercial real estate assets include RMBS, commercial MBS,
whole loans  and mortgage CDOs. Commercial loans, debt
securities and other include corporate CLOs and CDOs,
commercial loans and bonds, and securities backed by non-real
estate asset s. Structured  liabilities primarily include equity-linked
notes that are accounted for under the fair value option.
The Corporation uses multiple market approach es in valuing
certain of its Level 3 financial instruments. For example, market
comparables and discounted cash flows are used together . For a
given product, such as corporate debt securities, market
comparables may be used to estimate some of the unobservable
inputs and then these inputs are incorporated into a discounted
cash flow model. Therefore, the balances disclosed encompass
both of these techniques.
The levels of aggregation and diversity within the products
disclosed in the tables result in certain ranges  of inputs being
wide and unevenly distributed across asset and liability
categories.
Uncertainty of Fair Value Measurements from
Unobservable Inputs
Loans and Securities
A significant increase in market yields, default rates, loss
severities or duration would have resulted in a significantly lower
fair value for long positions. Short positions would have been
impacted in a directionally opposite way. The impact of changes
in prepayment speeds would have resulted in differing impacts
depending on the seniority of the instrument and, in the case of
CLOs, whether prepayments can be reinvested. A significant
increase in price would have resulted in a significantly higher fair
value for long positions, and short positions would have been
impacted in a directionally opposite way .
Structured Liabilities and Derivatives
For credit derivatives, a significant increase in market yield,upfront points (i.e., a single upfront payment made by a
protection buyer at inception), credit spreads, default rates or
loss severities would have resulted in a signif icantly lower fair
value for protection sellers and higher fair value for protection
buyers. The impact of changes in prepayment speeds would
have resulted in differing impacts depending on the seniority of
the instrument.
Structured credit derivatives are impacted  by credit
correlation. Default correlation is a parameter that describes the
degree of dependence among credit default rates within a credit
portfolio that underlies a credit derivative instrument. The
sensitivity of this input on the fair value varies depending on the
level of subordination of the tranche. For senior tranches that are
net purchases of protection, a significant increase in default
correlation would have resulted in a significantly higher fair value.
Net short protection positions would have been impacted in a
directionally opposite way .
For equity derivatives, commodity derivatives,  interest rate
derivatives and structured liabilities, a significant change in long-
dated rates and volatilitie s and correlation inputs (i.e., the degree
of correlation  between an equity security and an index, between
two different commodities, between two different interest rates, or
between interest rates and foreign exchange rates) would have
resulted in a significant  impact to the fair value; however , the
magnitude and direction of the impact depend on whether the
Corporation is long or short the exposure. For structured
liabilities, a significant increase in yield or decrease in price
would have resulted in a significantly lower fair value.
Nonrecurring Fair Value
The Corpora tion holds certain assets that are measured at fair
value only in certain situations (e.g., the impairment of an asset),
and these measurements are referred to herein as nonrecurring.
The amounts below represent assets still held as of the reporting
date for which a nonrecurring fair value adjustme nt was recorded
during 2021, 2020 and 2019.
Assets Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis
December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
(Dollars in millions)
 Level 2 Level 3 Level 2 Level 3
Assets    
Loans held-for-sale $ 634 $ 24 $ 1,020 $ 792 
Loans and leases — 213 — 301 
Foreclosed properties — 5 — 17 
Other assets 256 2,046 323 576 
Gains (Losses)
2021 2020 2019
Assets    
Loans held-for-sale $ (44)$ (79)$ (14)
Loans and leases (60) (73) (81)
Foreclosed properties (2) (6) (9)
Other assets (492) (98) (2,145)
Includes $ 24 million, $ 30 million and $ 36 million of losses on loans that were written down to a collateral value of zero during 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively .
Amounts are included in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and represent the carrying value of foreclosed properties that were written down subsequent to their initial classification as
foreclosed properties. Losses on foreclosed properties include losses recorded during the first 90 days after transfer of a loan to foreclosed properties.
Excludes $ 52 million and $ 119 million of properties acquired upon foreclosure of certain government-guaranteed loans (principally FHA-insured loans) at December 31, 2021 and 2020.(1)
(2, 3)
(1)
(1)
(2)
(3)
Bank of America 158
The table below presents information about significant unobservable inputs utilized in the Corporation's nonrecurring Level 3 fair
value measurements at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Quantitative Information about Nonrecurring Level 3 Fair Value Measurements
Inputs
Financial InstrumentFair
ValueValuation
TechniqueSignificant Unobservable
InputsRanges of
InputsWeighted
Average 
(Dollars in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2021
Loans and leases $ 213 Market comparablesOREO discount 13% to 59% 24 %
Costs to sell 8% to 26% 9 %
Other assets 1,875 Discounted cash flowDiscount rate 7 % n/a
166 Market comparablesEstimated appraisal value n/a n/a
Year Ended December 31, 2020
Loans held-for-sale $ 792 Discounted cash flowPrice $8 to $99 $95
Loans and leases 301 Market comparablesOREO discount 13% to 59% 24 %
Costs to sell 8% to 26% 9 %
Other assets 576 Discounted cash flowRevenue attrition 2% to 19% 7 %
Discount rate 11% to 14% 12 %
The weighted average is calculated based upon the fair value of the loans.
Represents residential mortgages where the loan has been written down to the fair value of the underlying collateral.
Represents the fair value of certain impaired renewable energy investments and impaired assets related to the Corporation’ s real estate rationalization.
Represents the fair value of the intangible asset related to the merchant contracts received from the dissolution of the Corporation's merchant services joint venture.
n/a = not applicable
NOTE 21 Fair V alue Option
Loans and Loan Commitments
The Corporation elects to account for certain  loans and loan
commitments that exceed the Corporation’ s single-name credit
risk concentration guidelines under the fair value option. Lending
commitments are actively managed and, as appropriate, credit
risk for these  lending relationships may be mitig ated through the
use of credit derivatives, with the Corporation’ s public side credit
view and market perspe ctives determining the size and timing of
the hedging  activity . These credit derivatives do not meet the
requirements for designation as accounting hedges and are
carried at fair value. The fair value option allows the Corporation
to carry these loans and loan commitments at fair value, which is
more consistent with management’ s view of the underlying
economics and the manner in which they are managed. In
addition, the fair value option allows the Corpo ration to reduce
the accounting volatility that would otherwise result from the
asymmetry created by accounting for the financial instruments at
historical cost and the credit derivatives at fair value.
Loans Held-for-sale
The Corporation elects to account for residential mortgage LHFS,
commercial mortgage LHFS and certain other LHFS under the
fair value option. These loans are actively managed and
monitored and, as appropriate, certain market risks of the loans
may be mitig ated throug h the use of derivatives. The Corporation
has elected not to designate the derivatives as qualifying
accounting hedges, and therefore, they are carried at fair value.
The changes in fair value of the loans are largely offset by
changes in the fair value of the derivatives. The fair value option
allows the Corporation to reduce the accounting volatility that
would otherwise result from the asymmetry created by
accounting for the financial instruments at the lower of cost or fair
value and the derivative s at fair value. The Corporation has not
elected to account for certain other LHFS under the fair value
option primarily because these loans are floating-rate loans that
are not hedged using derivative instruments.Loans Reported as Trading Account Assets
The Corporation elects to account for certain loans that are held
for the purpose of trading and are risk-managed on a fair value
basis under the fair value option.
Other Assets
The Corporation elects to account for certain long-term fixed-rate
margin loans that are hedged with derivatives under the fair value
option. Election of the fair value option allows the Corporation to
reduce the accounting volatility that would otherwise result from
the asymmetry created by accounting for the financial
instruments at historical cost and the derivatives at fair value.
Securities Financing Agreements
The Corporation elects to account for certain securities financing
agreements, including resale and repurchase agreements, under
the fair value option. These elections include certain agreements
collateralized by the U.S. government and its agencies, which are
generally short-dated and have minimal interest rate risk.
Long-term Deposits
The Corporation elects to account for certain long-term fixed-rate
and rate-linked deposits that are hedged with derivatives that do
not qualify for hedge accounting. Election of the fair value option
allows the Corporation to reduce the accounting volatility that
would otherwise result from the asymme try created by
accounting for the financial instruments at historical cost and the
derivatives at fair value. The Corporation has not elected to carry
other long-term deposits at fair value becaus e they are not
hedged using derivatives.
Short-term Borrowings
The Corporation elects to account for certain short-term
borrowings, primarily short-term structured liabilities, under the
fair value option becau se this debt is risk-managed on a fair
value basis.(1)
(2)
(3)
(2)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
159 Bank of America
The Corporation also elects to account for certain asset-
backed secured financings, which are also classified in short-
term borrow ings, under the fair value option. Election of the fair
value option allows the Corporation to reduce the accounting
volatility that would otherwise result from the asymmetry created
by accounting for the asset-backed secure d financings at
historical cost and the corresponding mortgage  LHFS securing
these financings at fair value.
Long-term Debt
The Corporation elects to account for certain long-term debt,
primarily structured liabilities, under the fair value option. Thislong-term debt is either risk-managed on a fair value basis or the
related hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Fair Value Option Elections
The following tables provide information about the fair value
carrying amount and the contractual principal outstanding of
assets and liabilities accounted for under the fair value option at
December 31, 2021 and 2020, and information about where
changes in the fair value of assets and liabilities accounted for
under the fair value option are included in the Consolidated
Statement of Income for 2021, 2020 and 2019.
Fair Value Option Elections
December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
(Dollars in millions)Fair Value
 Carrying
 AmountContractual
 Principal
 OutstandingFair Value
Carrying
Amount Less
 Unpaid PrincipalFair Value
Carrying
AmountContractual
 Principal
 OutstandingFair Value
Carrying
  Amount Less
 Unpaid Principal
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or
purchased under agreements to resell $ 150,665 $ 150,677 $ (12)$ 108,856 $ 108,811 $ 45 
Loans reported as trading account assets 10,864 18,895 (8,031) 7,967 17,372 (9,405)
Trading inventory – other 21,986 n/a n/a 22,790 n/a n/a
Consumer and commercial loans 7,819 7,888 (69) 6,681 6,778 (97)
Loans held-for-sale 4,455 5,343 (888) 1,585 2,521 (936)
Other assets 544 n/a n/a 200 n/a n/a
Long-term deposits 408 401 7 481 448 33 
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or
sold under agreements to repurchase 139,641 139,682 (41) 135,391 135,390 1 
Short-term borrowings 4,279 4,127 152 5,874 5,178 696 
Unfunded loan commitments 97 n/a n/a 99 n/a n/a
Long-term debt 29,708 30,903 (1,195) 32,200 33,470 (1,270)
A significant portion of the loans reported as trading account assets and LHFS are distressed loans that were purchased at a deep discount to par, and the remainder are loans with a fair value near
contractual principal outstanding.
n/a = not applicable(1)
(1)
(1)
Bank of America 160
Gains (Losses) Related to Assets and Liabilities Accounted for Under the Fair Value Option
Market making
 and similar
 activitiesOther
Income Total
(Dollars in millions) 2021
Loans reported as trading account assets $ 275 $ — $ 275 
Trading inventory – other (211) — (211)
Consumer and commercial loans 78 40 118 
Loans held-for-sale — 58 58 
Short-term borrowings 883 — 883 
Long-term debt (604) (41) (645)
Other 18 (23) (5)
Total $ 439 $ 34 $ 473 
2020
Loans reported as trading account assets $ 107 $ — $ 107 
Trading inventory – other 3,216 — 3,216 
Consumer and commercial loans 22 (3) 19 
Loans held-for-sale — 103 103 
Short-term borrowings (170) — (170)
Unfunded loan commitments — (65) (65)
Long-term debt (2,175) (53) (2,228)
Other 35 (22) 13 
Total $ 1,035 $ (40)$ 995 
2019
Loans reported as trading account assets $ 203 $ — $ 203 
Trading inventory – other 5,795 — 5,795 
Consumer and commercial loans 92 12 104 
Loans held-for-sale — 98 98 
Short-term borrowings (24) — (24)
Unfunded loan commitments — 79 79 
Long-term debt (1,098) (78) (1,176)
Other 9 (27) (18)
Total $ 4,977 $ 84 $ 5,061 
    The gains (losses) in market making and similar activities are primarily of fset by (losses) gains on trading liabilities that hedge these assets.
    Includes the value of IRLCs on funded loans, including those sold during the period.
    The net losses in market making  and similar activities relate to the embedded derivatives in structured liabilities and are typically offset by gains on derivatives and securities that hedge these
liabilities. For the cumulative impact of changes in the Corporation’ s own credit spreads and the amount recognized in accumulated OCI, see Note 14 – Accumulated Other Comp rehensive Income
(Loss) . For more information on how the Corporation’ s own credit spread is determined, see Note 20 – Fair V alue Measurements.
    Includes gains (losses) on federa l funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell, other assets, long-term depo sits and federal funds purchased and securities loaned
or sold under agreements to repurchase.
    Gains (losses) related to borrower-specific credit risk were $ 162 million, $( 361) million and $ 194 million in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively .
NOTE 22 Fair V alue of Financial Instruments
Financial instruments are classified within the fair value hierarchy
using the methodologie s described in Note 20 – Fair Value
Measurements . Certain loans, deposits, long-term debt,
unfunded lending comm itments and other finan cial instruments
are accounted for under the fair value option. For more
information, see Note 21 – Fair Value Option . The following
disclosures include financial instruments that are not carried at
fair value or only a portio n of the ending balance is carried at fair
value on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Short-term Financial Instruments
The carrying  value of short-term financial instruments, including
cash and cash equivalents, certain time deposits placed and
other short-t erm investm ents, federal funds sold and purchased,
certain resale and repurchase agreements and short-term
borrowings, approximates the fair value of these instruments.
These financial instruments generally expose the Corporation tolimited credi t risk and have no stated maturitie s or have short-
term maturities and carry interest rates that approximate market.
The Corporation accounts for certain resale and repurchase
agreements under the fair value option.
Under the fair value hierarchy , cash and cash equivalents are
classified as Level 1. Time deposits placed and other short-term
investments, such as U.S. government securitie s and short-term
commercial paper , are classified as Level 1 or Level 2. Federal
funds sold and purchase d are classified as Level 2. Resale and
repurchase agreements are classified as Level 2 because they
are generally short-dated and/or variable-r ate instruments
collateralized by U.S. government or agency securities. Short-
term borrowings are classified as Level 2.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The carrying  values and fair values by fair value hierarchy of
certain financial instruments where only a portion of the ending
balance was carried at fair value at December 31, 2021 and 2020
are presented in the following table.(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
 (5)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
 (5)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
 (5)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
161 Bank of America
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Fair Value
Carrying
Value Level 2 Level 3 Total
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2021
Financial assets
Loans $ 946,142 $ 53,544 $919,980 $973,524 
Loans held-for-
sale 15,635 15,016 627 15,643 
Financial liabilities
Deposits 2,064,446 2,064,438 — 2,064,438 
Long-term debt 280,117 286,802 1,288 288,090 
Commercial
unfunded
lending
commitments 1,554 97 6,384 6,481 
December 31, 2020
Financial assets
Loans $ 887,289 $ 49,372 $877,682 $927,054 
Loans held-for-
sale 9,243 7,864 1,379 9,243 
Financial liabilities
Deposits 1,795,480 1,795,545 — 1,795,545 
Long-term debt 262,934 271,315 1,164 272,479 
Commercial
unfunded
lending
commitments 1,977 99 5,159 5,258 
Includes demand deposits of $1.0 trillion and $799.0  billion with no stated maturities at
December 31, 2021 and 2020.
The carrying value of commercial unfunded lending commitments is included in accrued
expenses and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Corporation does not
estimate the fair value of consum er unfunded lending commitment s because, in many
instances, the Corporation can reduc e or cancel these commitments by providing notice to the
borrower . For more information on commitments, see Note 12 – Com mitments and
Contingencies .
NOTE 23  Business Segment Information
The Corporation reports its results of operations through the
following four business segments: Consumer Banking , GWIM
Global Banking and Global Markets, with the remaining
operations recorded in All Other .
Consumer Banking
Consumer Banking offers a diversified range of credit, banking
and investment products and services to consumers and small
businesses. Consumer Banking  product offerings include
traditional savings acco unts, money market savings accounts,
CDs and IRAs, checking accounts, and investment accounts and
products, as well as credit and debit cards, residential mortgages
and home equity loans, and direct and indirect loans to
consumers and small businesses in the U.S. Consumer  Banking
includes the impact of servicing residential mortgages and home
equity loans.
Global Wealth & Investment Management
GWIM  provides a high-touch client experience through a network
of financial advisors focused on clients with over $250,000 in
total investable assets, including tailored solutions to meet
clients’  needs through a full set of investment management,
brokerage, banking and retirement products. GWIM  also provides
comprehensive wealth management solutions targeted to high
net worth and ultra high net worth clients, as well as customized
solutions to meet clients’  wealth structuring, investment
management, trust and banking needs, includin g specialty asset
management services.
Global Banking
Global Banking  provides a wide range of lending-related products
and services, integrated working capital management and
treasury solutions, and underwriting and advisory services
through the Corporation’ s network of of fices and clientrelationship teams. Global Bank ing also provides investme nt
banking products to clients. The economics of certain investment
banking and underwritin g activities are shared primarily between
Global Banking and Global Markets  under an internal revenue-
sharing arrangement. Global Bank ing clients generally include
middle-market companie s, commercial real estate firms, not-for-
profit companies, large global corporations, financial institutions,
leasing clients, and mid-sized U.S.-based businesses requiring
customized and integrated financial advice and solutions.
Global Markets
Global Markets  offers sales and trading services and research
services to institutional clients across fixed-income, credit,
currency , commodity and equity businesses. Global Markets
provides market-making , financing, securities clearing, settlement
and custody services globally to institutional investor clients in
support of their investing and trading activities. Global Markets
product cove rage includ es securities and derivative products in
both the primary and secondary markets. Global Markets  also
works with commercial and corporate clients to provide risk
management products. As a result of market-making activities,
Global Mark ets may be required to manage risk in a broad range
of financial products. In addition, the economics of certain
investment banking and underwriting activit ies are shared
primarily between Global Markets and Global Banking  under an
internal revenue-sharing arrangement.
All Other
All Other  primarily consists of ALM activities, liquidating
businesses and certain expenses not otherwise allocated to a
business segment. ALM activities encompass interest rate and
foreign currency risk management activities for which
substantially all of the results are allocated to the business
segments.
Basis of Presentation
The management accounting and reporting process derives
segment and business results by utilizing allocation
methodologies for revenue and expense. The net income derived
for the businesses is dependent upon revenue and cost
allocations using an activity-based costing model, funds transfer
pricing, and other methodologies and assumptions management
believes are appropriate to reflect the results of the business.
Total revenue, net of interest expense, includes net interest
income on an FTE basis and noninterest income. The adjustment
of net intere st income to an FTE basis results in a corresponding
increase in income tax expense. The segment results also reflect
certain revenue and expense methodologies that are utilized to
determine net income. The net interest income of the businesses
includes the results of a funds transfer pricing process that
matches assets and liabilities with similar interest rate sensitivity
and maturity characteristics. In segments where the total of
liabilities and equity exceeds assets, which are generally deposit-
taking segments, the Corporation allocates assets to match
liabilities. Net interest income of the business segments also
includes an allocation of net interest income generated by certain
of the Corporation’ s ALM activities.
The Corporation’ s ALM activities include an overall interest
rate risk management strategy that incorporates the use of
various deriv atives and cash instruments to manage fluctuations
in earnings and capital that are caused by interest rate volatility .
The Corporation’ s goal is to manage interest rate sensitivity so
that movements in interest rates do not significantly adversely
affect earnings and capital. The results of(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
(1) 
(2) 
Bank of America 162
substantially all of the Corporation’ s ALM activities are allocated
to the business segments and fluctuate based on the
performance of the ALM activities. ALM activities include external
product pricing decisions including deposit pricing strategies, the
effects of the Corporation’ s internal funds transfer pricing process
and the net ef fects of other ALM activities.
Certain expenses not directly attributable to a specific
business segment are allocated to the segments. The costs of
certain centralized or shared functions are allocated based on
methodologies that reflect utilization.
Effective October 1, 2021, a business activity previously
included in the Global Markets  segment is being reported as a
liquidating business in All Other , consistent with a realignmentin performance reporting to senior managem ent. While this
activity was not material to Global Markets’  result s of operations
and historical results have not been restated, this activity’ s
noninterest expense of $309 million and $473 million for the three
months ended September 30, 2021 and June 30, 2021 was
elevated and would have been excluded from Global Markets’
results of operations for those periods under the new basis of
presentation.
The table below presents net income (loss) and the
components thereto (with net interest income on an FTE basis for
the business  segments, All Other and the total Corporatio n) for
2021, 2020 and 2019, and total assets at December 31, 2021
and 2020 for each business segment, as well as All Other .
Results of Business Segments and All
Other
At and for the year ended December 31 Total Corporation Consumer Banking
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019 2021 2020 2019
Net interest income $ 43,361 $ 43,859 $ 49,486 $ 24,929 $ 24,698 $ 28,158 
Noninterest income 46,179 42,168 42,353 9,076 8,564 10,429 
Total revenue, net of interest expense 89,540 86,027 91,839 34,005 33,262 38,587 
Provision for credit losses (4,594) 11,320 3,590 (1,035) 5,765 3,772 
Noninterest expense 59,731 55,213 54,900 19,290 18,882 17,646 
Income before income taxes 34,403 19,494 33,349 15,750 8,615 17,169 
Income tax expense 2,425 1,600 5,919 3,859 2,111 4,207 
Net income $ 31,978 $ 17,894 $ 27,430 $ 11,891 $ 6,504 $ 12,962 
Period-end total assets $3,169,495 $2,819,627 $1,131,142 $ 988,580  
 Global Wealth & Investment Management Global Banking
 2021 2020 2019 2021 2020 2019
Net interest income $ 5,664 $ 5,468 $ 6,504 $ 8,511 $ 9,013 $ 10,675 
Noninterest income 15,084 13,116 13,034 12,364 9,974 9,808 
Total revenue, net of interest expense 20,748 18,584 19,538 20,875 18,987 20,483 
Provision for credit losses (241) 357 82 (3,201) 4,897 414 
Noninterest expense 15,258 14,160 13,825 10,632 9,342 9,011 
Income before income taxes 5,731 4,067 5,631 13,444 4,748 11,058 
Income tax expense 1,404 996 1,380 3,630 1,282 2,985 
Net income $ 4,327 $ 3,071 $ 4,251 $ 9,814 $ 3,466 $ 8,073 
Period-end total assets $ 438,275 $ 369,736 $ 638,131 $ 580,561  
 Global Markets All Other
 2021 2020 2019 2021 2020 2019
Net interest income $ 4,011 $ 4,646 $ 3,915 $ 246 $ 34 $ 234 
Noninterest income 15,244 14,119 11,699 (5,589) (3,605) (2,617)
Total revenue, net of interest expense 19,255 18,765 15,614 (5,343) (3,571) (2,383)
Provision for credit losses 65 251 (9) (182) 50 (669)
Noninterest expense 13,032 11,417 10,728 1,519 1,412 3,690 
Income (loss) before income taxes 6,158 7,097 4,895 (6,680) (5,033) (5,404)
Income tax expense (benefit) 1,601 1,845 1,395 (8,069) (4,634) (4,048)
Net income (loss) $ 4,557 $ 5,252 $ 3,500 $ 1,389 $ (399)$ (1,356)
Period-end total assets $ 747,794 $ 616,609 $ 214,153 $ 264,141  
There were no material intersegment revenues (1)
(1)
163 Bank of America
The tables below presen t noninterest income and the associated components for 2021, 2020 and 2019 for each business segment,
All Other and the total Corporation. For more information, see Note 2 – Net Interest Income and Noninterest Income.
Noninterest Income by Business Segment and All Other
Total Corporation Consumer BankingGlobal Wealth &
Investment Management
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019 2021 2020 2019 2021 2020 2019
Fees and commissions:
Card income
Interchange fees $ 4,560 $ 3,954 $ 3,834 $ 3,597 $ 3,027 $ 3,174 $ 43 $ 36 $ 59 
Other card income 1,658 1,702 1,963 1,575 1,646 1,910 42 42 42 
Total card income 6,218 5,656 5,797 5,172 4,673 5,084 85 78 101 
Service charges
Deposit-related fees 6,271 5,991 6,588 3,538 3,417 4,218 72 67 68 
Lending-related fees 1,233 1,150 1,086 — — — — — — 
Total service charges 7,504 7,141 7,674 3,538 3,417 4,218 72 67 68 
Investment and brokerage services
Asset management fees 12,729 10,708 10,241 188 146 144 12,541 10,578 10,130 
Brokerage fees 3,961 3,866 3,661 132 127 149 1,771 1,692 1,740 
Total investment and brokerage
services 16,690 14,574 13,902 320 273 293 14,312 12,270 11,870 
Investment banking fees
Underwriting income 5,077 4,698 2,998 — — — 388 391 401 
Syndication fees 1,499 861 1,184 — — — — — — 
Financial advisory services 2,311 1,621 1,460 — — — — — — 
Total investment banking fees 8,887 7,180 5,642 — — — 388 391 401 
Total fees and commissions 39,299 34,551 33,015 9,030 8,363 9,595 14,857 12,806 12,440 
Market making and similar activities 8,691 8,355 9,034 1 2 6 40 63 113 
Other income (loss) (1,811) (738) 304 45 199 828 187 247 481 
Total noninterest income $46,179 $42,168 $42,353 $ 9,076 $ 8,564 $10,429 $15,084 $13,116 $13,034 
Global Banking Global Markets All Other 
2021 2020 2019 2021 2020 2019 2021 2020 2019
Fees and commissions:
Card income
Interchange fees $ 700 $ 499 $ 519 $ 220 $ 391 $ 81 $ — $ 1 $ 1 
Other card income 13 14 13 — — (1) 28 — (1)
Total card income 713 513 532 220 391 80 28 1 — 
Service charges
Deposit-related fees 2,508 2,298 2,121 146 177 156 7 32 25 
Lending-related fees 1,015 940 894 218 210 192 — — — 
Total service charges 3,523 3,238 3,015 364 387 348 7 32 25 
Investment and brokerage services
Asset management fees — — — — — — — (16) (33)
Brokerage fees 104 74 34 1,979 1,973 1,738 (25) — — 
Total investment and brokerage
services 104 74 34 1,979 1,973 1,738 (25) (16) (33)
Investment banking fees
Underwriting income 2,187 2,070 1,227 2,725 2,449 1,555 (223) (212) (185)
Syndication fees 781 482 574 718 379 610 — — — 
Financial advisory services 2,139 1,458 1,336 173 163 123 (1) — 1 
Total investment banking fees 5,107 4,010 3,137 3,616 2,991 2,288 (224) (212) (184)
Total fees and commissions 9,447 7,835 6,718 6,179 5,742 4,454 (214) (195) (192)
Market making and similar activities 145 103 235 8,760 8,471 7,065 (255) (284) 1,615 
Other income (loss) 2,772 2,036 2,855 305 (94) 180 (5,120) (3,126) (4,040)
Total noninterest income $12,364 $ 9,974 $ 9,808 $15,244 $14,119 $11,699 $(5,589)$(3,605)$(2,617)
All Other  includes eliminations of intercompany transactions.(1)
(1)
Bank of America 164
Business Segment Reconciliations
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Segments’ total revenue, net of interest expense $ 94,883 $ 89,598 $ 94,222 
Adjustments :    
Asset and liability management activities (4) 375 241 
Liquidating businesses, eliminations and other (5,339) (3,946) (2,624)
FTE basis adjustment (427) (499) (595)
Consolidated revenue, net of interest expense $ 89,113 $ 85,528 $ 91,244 
Segments’ total net income 30,589 18,293 28,786 
Adjustments, net-of-tax :   
Asset and liability management activities 11 279 202 
Liquidating businesses, eliminations and other 1,378 (678) (1,558)
Consolidated net income $ 31,978 $ 17,894 $ 27,430 
December 31
2021 2020
Segments’ total assets $ 2,955,342 $ 2,555,486 
Adjustments :  
Asset and liability management activities, including securities portfolio 1,363,626 1,176,071 
Elimination of segment asset allocations to match liabilities (1,216,891) (977,685)
Other 67,418 65,755 
Consolidated total assets $ 3,169,495 $ 2,819,627 
Adjustments include consolidated income, expense and asset amounts not specifically allocated to individual business segments.
NOTE 24 Parent Company Information
The following tables present the Parent Company-only financial information.
Condensed Statement of Income
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Income    
Dividends from subsidiaries:    
Bank holding companies and related subsidiaries $ 15,621 $ 10,352 $ 27,820 
Interest from subsidiaries 8,362 8,825 9,502 
Other income (loss) (114) (138) 74 
Total income 23,869 19,039 37,396 
Expense    
Interest on borrowed funds from subsidiaries 54 136 451 
Other interest expense 3,383 4,119 5,899 
Noninterest expense 1,531 1,651 1,641 
Total expense 4,968 5,906 7,991 
Income before income taxes and equity in undistributed earnings of subsidiaries 18,901 13,133 29,405 
Income tax expense 886 649 341 
Income before equity in undistributed earnings of subsidiaries 18,015 12,484 29,064 
Equity in undistributed earnings (losses) of subsidiaries:    
Bank holding companies and related subsidiaries 14,078 5,372 (1,717)
Nonbank companies and related subsidiaries (115) 38 83 
Total equity in undistributed earnings (losses) of subsidiaries 13,963 5,410 (1,634)
Net income $ 31,978 $ 17,894 $ 27,430 (1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
165 Bank of America
Condensed Balance Sheet
 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Assets   
Cash held at bank subsidiaries $ 5,011 $ 5,893 
Securities 671 701 
Receivables from subsidiaries:
Bank holding companies and related subsidiaries 217,447 206,566 
Banks and related subsidiaries 347 213 
Nonbank companies and related subsidiaries 368 410 
Investments in subsidiaries:
Bank holding companies and related subsidiaries 316,497 305,818 
Nonbank companies and related subsidiaries 3,645 3,715 
Other assets 8,602 9,850 
Total assets $ 552,588 $ 533,166 
Liabilities and shareholders’ equity   
Accrued expenses and other liabilities $ 17,394 $ 15,965 
Payables to subsidiaries:
Banks and related subsidiaries 107 129 
Bank holding companies and related subsidiaries 3 — 
Nonbank companies and related subsidiaries 11,564 11,067 
Long-term debt 253,454 233,081 
Total liabilities 282,522 260,242 
Shareholders’ equity 270,066 272,924 
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $ 552,588 $ 533,166 
Condensed Statement of Cash Flows
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019
Operating activities    
Net income $ 31,978 $ 17,894 $ 27,430 
Reconciliation of net income (loss) to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities:    
Equity in undistributed (earnings) losses of subsidiaries (13,963) (5,410) 1,634 
Other operating activities, net (7,144) 14,303 16,973 
Net cash provided by operating activities 10,871 26,787 46,037 
Investing activities    
Net purchases of securities (14) (4) (17)
Net payments to subsidiaries (10,796) (33,111) (19,121)
Other investing activities, net (26) (7) 7 
Net cash used in investing activities (10,836) (33,122) (19,131)
Financing activities    
Net increase (decrease) in other advances 503 (422) (1,625)
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 56,106 43,766 29,315 
Retirement of long-term debt (24,544) (23,168) (21,039)
Proceeds from issuance of preferred stock and warrants 2,170 2,181 3,643 
Redemption of preferred stock (1,971) (1,072) (2,568)
Common stock repurchased (25,126) (7,025) (28,144)
Cash dividends paid (8,055) (7,727) (5,934)
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (917) 6,533 (26,352)
Net increase (decrease) in cash held at bank subsidiaries (882) 198 554 
Cash held at bank subsidiaries at January 1 5,893 5,695 5,141 
Cash held at bank subsidiaries at December 31 $ 5,011 $ 5,893 $ 5,695 
Bank of America 166
NOTE 25 Performance by Geographical Area
The Corpo ration’ s operations are highly integrated with
operations in both U.S. and non-U.S. markets. The non-U.S.
business activities are largely conducted in Europe, the Middle
East and Africa and in Asia. The Corporati on identifies its
geographic performance based on the business unit structure
used to manage the capital or expense deployed in the regionas applicable. This requires certain judgments related to the
allocation of revenue so that revenue can be appropriately
matched with the related capital or expense deployed in the
region. Certain asset, liability , income and expense amounts
have been allocated to arrive at total assets, total revenue, net of
interest expe nse, income before income taxes and net income by
geographic area as presented below .
(Dollars in millions)  Total Assets at
Year EndTotal Revenue,
Net of Interest
ExpenseIncome Before
Income Taxes Net Income
U.S. 2021 $ 2,789,862 $ 78,012 $ 31,392 $ 27,781 
 2020 2,490,247 75,576 18,247 16,692 
 2019 81,236 30,699 25,937 
Asia 2021 117,085 4,439 988 733 
 2020 99,283 4,232 1,051 788 
 2019 3,491 765 570 
Europe, Middle East and Africa 2021 233,356 5,423 1,097 3,134 
 2020 202,701 4,491 (596) 264 
 2019 5,310 921 672 
Latin America and the Caribbean 2021 29,192 1,239 499 330 
 2020 27,396 1,229 293 150 
 2019 1,207 369 251 
Total Non-U.S. 2021 379,633 11,101 2,584 4,197 
 2020 329,380 9,952 748 1,202 
 2019 10,008 2,055 1,493 
Total Consolidated 2021 $ 3,169,495 $ 89,113 $ 33,976 $ 31,978 
 2020 2,819,627 85,528 18,995 17,894 
 2019 91,244 32,754 27,430 
Total assets include long-lived assets, which are primarily located in the U.S.
There were no material intercompany revenues between geographic regions for any of the periods presented.
Substantially reflects the U.S. (1)  (2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
167 Bank of America
Glossary
Alt-A  Mortg age – A type of U.S. mortgage that is considered
riskier than A-paper , or “prime,” and less risky than “subprime,”
the riskiest category . Typically , Alt-A  mortgages are characterized
by borrowers with less than full documentation, lower credit
scores and higher L TVs.
Assets Under Management (AUM) – The total market value of
assets under the investment advisory and/or discretion of GWIM
which generate asset management fees based on a percentage
of the assets’  market values. AUM reflects assets that are
generally managed for institutional, high net worth and retail
clients, and are distributed through various investment products
including mutual funds, other commingled vehic les and separate
accounts.
Banking Book  – All on- and off-balance sheet financial
instruments of the Corporation except for those positions that are
held for trading purposes.
Brokerage and Other Assets  – Non-discretionary client assets
which are held in brokerage accounts or held for safekeeping.
Committed Credit Exposure  – Any funded portion of a facility
plus the unfunded portion of a facility on which the lender is
legally bound to advanc e funds during a specified period under
prescribed conditions.
Credit Derivatives – Contractual agreements that provide
protection against a specified credit event on one or more
referenced obligations.
Credit Valuation Adjus tment (CVA) – A portfo lio adjustme nt
required to properly reflect the counterparty credit risk exposure
as part of the fair value of derivative instruments.
Debit Valuation Adjus tment (DVA) – A portfolio adjustment
required to properly reflect the Corporation’ s own credit risk
exposure as part of the fair value of derivative instruments and/or
structured liabilities.
Funding Valuation Adjustment (FVA) – A portfolio adjustment
required to include funding costs on uncollateralized derivatives
and derivativ es where the Corporation is not permitted to use the
collateral it receives.
Interest Rate Lock Commitment (IRLC)  – Commitment with a
loan applicant in which the loan terms are guaranteed for a
designated period of time subject to credit approval.
Letter of Credit  – A document issued on behalf of a customer to
a third party  promising to pay the third party upon presentation of
specified documents. A letter of credit effectively substitutes the
issuer ’s credit for that of the customer .Loan-to-value (LTV) – A commonly used credit quality metric.
LTV is calculated as the outstanding carrying value of the loan
divided by the estimated value of the property securing the loan.
Margin Receivable  – An extension of credit secured by eligible
securities in certain brokerage accounts.
Matched Book  – Repurchase and resale agreements or
securities borrowed and loaned transactions where the overall
asset and liability position is similar in size and/or maturity .
Generally , these are entered into to accommo date customers
where the Corporation earns the interest rate spread.
Mortgage Servicing Rights (MSR) – The right to service a
mortgage loan when the underlying loan is sold or securitized.
Servicing includes collections for principal, interest and escrow
payments from borrowers and accounting for and remitting
principal and interest payments to investors.
Nonperforming Loans and Leases  – Includes loans and leases
that have been placed on nonaccrual status, including
nonaccruing loans whose contractual terms have been
restructured in a manner that grants a concessi on to a borrower
experiencing financial dif ficulties.
Prompt Corrective Action (PCA)  – A framework established by
the U.S. banking regulators requiring banks to maintain certain
levels of regulatory capital ratios, comprised of five categories of
capitalization: “well capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,”
“undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically
undercapitalized.” Insured depository institutions that fail to meet
certain of these capital levels are subject to increasingly strict
limits on their activities , including their ability to make capital
distributions, pay management compensation, grow assets and
take other actions.
Subprime Loans  – Although a standard industry definition for
subprime loans (including subprime mortgage loans) does not
exist, the Corporation defines subprime loans as specific product
offerings for higher risk borrowers.
Troubled Debt Restr ucturings (TDRs)  – Loans whose
contractual terms have been restructured in a manner that grants
a concessio n to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties.
Certain consumer loans for which a binding offer to restructure
has been extended are also classified as TDRs.
Value-at-Risk (VaR) – VaR is a model that simulates the value of
a portfolio under a range of hypothetical scenarios in order to
generate a distribution of potential gains and losses. VaR
represents the loss the portfolio is expected to experience with a
given confidence level based on historical data. A VaR model is
an effective tool in estimating ranges of potential gains and
losses on our trading portfolios.
Bank of America 168
Key Metrics
Active Digital Banking Users – Mobile and/or online active
users over the past 90 days.
Active Mobile Banking Users – Mobile active users over the
past 90 days.
Book Value – Ending common shareholders’  equity divided by
ending common shares outstanding.
Deposit Spread – Annualized net interest income divided by
average deposits.
Dividend Payout Ratio – Com mon dividends declared divided
by net income applicable to common shareholders.
Efficiency Ratio – Noninterest expense divided by total revenue,
net of interest expense.
Gross Interest Yield – Effective annual percentage rate divided
by average loans.
Net Interest  Yield – Net interest income divided by average total
interest-earning assets.Operating Margin  – Income before income  taxes divided by total
revenue, net of interest expense.
Return on Average Allocated Capital – Adjusted net income
divided by allocated capital.
Return on Average Assets  – Net income divided by total
average assets.
Return on Average Common Shareholders ’ Equity – Net
income applicable to common shareholders divided by average
common shareholders’  equity .
Return on Average Shareholders ’ Equity  – Net income divided
by average shareholders’  equity .
Risk-adjusted Margi n – Difference between total revenue, net of
interest expense, and net credit losses divided by average loans.
169 Bank of America
Acronyms
ABS Asset-backed securities
AFS Available-for-sale
AI Artificial intelligence
ALM Asset and liability management
ARR Alternative reference rates
AUM Assets under management
AVM Automated valuation model
BANA Bank of America, National Association
BHC Bank holding company
BofAS BofA  Securities, Inc.
BofASE BofA  Securities Europe SA
bps Basis points
CAE Chief Audit Executive
CAO Chief Administrative Of ficer
CCAR Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review
CDO Collateralized debt obligation
CDS Credit default swap
CECL Current expected credit losses
CET1 Common equity tier 1
CFPB Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
CFTC Commodity Futures Trading Commission
CLO Collateralized loan obligation
CLTV Combined loan-to-value
CRO Chief Risk Of ficer
CVA Credit valuation adjustment
DIF Deposit Insurance Fund
DVA Debit valuation adjustment
ECL Expected credit losses
EMRC Enterprise Model Risk Committee
EPS Earnings per common share
ERC Enterprise Risk Committee
ESG Environmental, social and governance
EU European Union
FCA Financial Conduct Authority
FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
FDICIA Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Improvement Act of 1991
FHA Federal Housing Administration
FHLB Federal Home Loan Bank
FHLMC Freddie Mac
FICC Fixed income, currencies and commodities
FICO Fair Isaac Corporation (credit score)
FLUs Front line units
FNMA Fannie Mae
FTE Fully taxable-equivalent
FVA Funding valuation adjustment
GAAP Accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America
GDPR General Data Protection Regulation
GLS Global Liquidity SourcesGNMA Government National Mortgage Association
GRM Global Risk Management
GSE Government-sponsored enterprise
G-SIB Global systemically important bank
GWIM Global W ealth & Investment Management
HELOC Home equity line of credit
HQLA High Quality Liquid Assets
HTM Held-to-maturity
IBOR Interbank Of fered Rates
ICAAP Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process
IRLC Interest rate lock commitment
ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association,
Inc.
LCR Liquidity Coverage Ratio
LHFS Loans held-for-sale
LIBOR London Interbank Of fered Rate
LTV Loan-to-value
MBS Mortgage-backed securities
MD&A Management’ s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations
MLI Merrill L ynch International
MLPCC Merrill L ynch Professional Clearing Corp
MLPF&S Merrill L ynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
MRC Management Risk Committee
MSA Metropolitan Statistical Area
MSR Mortgage servicing right
MWM Merrill W ealth Management
NOL Net operating loss
NSFR Net Stable Funding Ratio
OCC Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
OCI Other comprehensive income
OREO Other real estate owned
OTC Over-the-counter
PCA Prompt Corrective Action
PPP Paycheck Protection Program
RMBS Residential mortgage-backed securities
RSU Restricted stock unit
RWA Risk-weighted assets
SBA Small Business Administration
SBLC Standby letter of credit
SCB Stress capital buf fer
SEC Securities and Exchange Commission
SLR Supplementary leverage ratio
SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate
TDR Troubled debt restructurings
TLAC Total loss-absorbing capacity
UDAAP Unfair , deceptive, or abusive acts or practices
VA U.S. Department of V eterans Affairs
VaR Value-at-Risk
VIE Variable interest entity
Bank of America 170
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with
Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure
None
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
As of the end of the period covered by this report and pursuant to
Rule 13a-15  of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
(Exchange Act), Bank of America’ s manageme nt, including the
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an
evaluation of the effectiveness and design of our disclosure
controls and procedures (as that term is defin ed in Rule 13a-
15(e) of the Exchange Act). Based upon that evaluation, Bank of
America’ s Chief Execut ive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
concluded that Bank of America’ s disclosur e controls and
procedures were effective, as of the end of the period covered by
this report.
Report of Management on Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting
The Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting is set forth on page 87 and incorporated herein by
reference. The Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm with respect to the Corporation’ s internal control
over financial reporting is set forth on pages 88 and 89 and
incorporated herein by reference.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
There have been no changes in our internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act)
during the quarter ended December 31, 2021, that materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal
control over financial reporting.
Item 9B. Other Information
Amendment to the Bylaws of Bank of America
Corporation
On Februar y 22, 2022, the Board approved and adopted an
amendment to the Bylaws of Bank of America Corporation, as
amended and restated by the Board on September 23, 2020
(Bylaws). The amendment to the Bylaws was effective as of the
date approved by the Board.
As part of the amendment, the Board adopted a new Article
IX, Section 6 designating the Delaware Court of Chancery as the
exclusive forum for certain legal actions (Delaware exclusive
forum provision). The Delaware exclusive forum provision
provides that, unless the Corporation consents in writing to the
selection of an alternative forum, the following actions shall be
solely and exclusively brought in the Court of Chancery of the
State of Delaware (or, if the Delaware Court of Chancery in the
State of Delaware determines that it lacks jurisdiction over any
such action or proceeding, another state or federal court located
within the State of Delaware): (i) any deriv ative action or
proceeding brought on behalf of the Corporation, (ii) any action
asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any
current or former directo r, officer, or other employee or agent or
stockholder of the Corporation to the Corporation or the
Corporation’ s stockholders, including a claim alleging the aiding
and abetting of such a breach of fiduciary duty, (iii) any action
asserting a claim agains t the Corporation or any current or former
director , officer or other employee or agent of the Corporation
arising pursuant to any provision of the DelawareGeneral Corporation Law (DGCL) or the Corporation’ s Certificate
of Incorporation or Bylaws, or as to which the DGCL  confers
jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware;
(iv) any action asserting  a claim governed by the internal affairs
doctrine of the State of Delaware; or (v) any action asserting an
“internal corporate claim ” as that term is defined in Section 115 of
the DGCL.
Although the Delaware exclusive forum provision took effect
immediately upon adoption by the Board, the Board determined,
including based on input from our shareholders during our
engagement process, that it would be beneficial in this instance,
to submit it to shareholders for voluntary ratification at the
Corporation’ s 2022 annual meeting of shareholders with the
understanding that, if shareholders fail to ratify the Delaware
exclusive forum provision, the Board will amend the Bylaws to
remove it.
The Bylaws amendment also related to other governance
practices, including the following:
●    Adoption of gender-neutral language throughout  the Bylaws,
including using the title “Chair” in place of “Chairman”
●    Clarification that the notice to stockholder requirements apply
except as otherwise provided within the bylaws or as permitted
by law (Article III. Stockholders, Section 4. Notice to
Stockholders )
●    Clarification that exemption from the majority voting standard
refers to the chair of a stockholders’  meeting and that the
election of directors and of the chair of a stockholders’  meeting
are excluded from the Voting of Shares provision because they
are covered elsewhere within the Bylaws  (Article III.
Stockholders, Section 9. V oting of Shares)
●    Clarification to specify the delivery method of notice for
nominations or other business to be properly brought before an
annual meeting  (Article III. Stockholders, Section 12. Notice of
Stockholder Business and Nominations)
●    Clarification that Board committees may exercise the authority
of the Board to the extent and as provided by the Board (Article
IV. Board of Directors, Section 6. Committees)
●    Revision to specify the method of delivery for the notice of
director nomination and to clarify that any notification by a
stockholder to correct any inaccuracy or omission in their
submission does not cure any defect or limit the Corporation’ s
rights to omit a stockholder nominee from its proxy materials
(Article IV. Board of Directors, Section 9. Inclusi on of Director
Nominations by Stockholders in the Corporation’ s Proxy
Materials )
●    Clarification that if a quorum is not present, a directors’
meeting may be adjourned by a majority of directors present
(Article V . Meetings of Directors, Section 5. Quorum )
●    Clarification that duly authorized Board committees may elect
officers ( Article VI. Officers, Section 2. Appointment and T erm)
●    Clarification that officers may specify by electronic
transmission the effective date of resignation and that duly
authorized Board committees may remove officers. (Article VI.
Officers, Section 4. Resignation and Removal of Officers )
The amend ment also includes certain other technical and
conforming revisions and clarifications. The foregoing summary
is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Bylaws of Bank of
America Corporation, as Amended and Restated  by the Board of
Directors on February 22, 2022, a copy of which (marked to show
changes from the prior version) is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.2
and is incorporated in this Item 9B by reference.
171 Bank of America
Disclosure Pursuant to Section 13(r) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934
Pursuant to Section 13(r) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended  (Exchange Act), an issuer is requir ed to disclose in
its annual or quarterly reports, as applicable, whether it or any of
its affiliates knowingly engaged in certain activities, transactions
or dealings relating to Iran or with individuals or entities
designated pursuant to certain Executive Orders . Disclosure may
be required even where the activities, transactions or dealings
were conducted in comp liance with applicable law. Except as set
forth below, as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
the Corporation is not aware of any other activity , transaction or
dealing by any of its affiliates during the quarter ended December
31, 2021 that requires disclosure under Section 13(r) of the
Exchange Act.
Pursuant to a specific license from the U.S. Treasury
Department’ s Office of Foreign Assets Control issued on May 28,
2021, during the fourth quarter of 2021, Bank of America,
National Association (BANA), a U.S. subsidiary of Bank of
America Corporation, processed one authorized wire deposit
totaling $327,257 on behalf of a U.S. client into its account at
BANA. The wire deposit settled invoices owed to the U.S. client
and consisted of unblocked funds belonging to Jammal Trust
Bank, which  at the time of the deposit was designated pursuant
to Executive Order 13224. There was no measurable gross
revenue or net profit  to the Corporation relating to this
transaction. The Corporation may in the future engage in similar
transactions for its clients to the extent permitted by U.S. law .
Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign
Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections
Not applicable.
Part III
Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and
Corporate Governance
Information about our Executive Officers
The name, age, position  and office, and business experience of
our current executive of ficers are:
Dean C. Athanasia (55) President, Regional Banking since
October 2021; President, Retail and Preferred & Small Business
Banking from January 2019 to October 2021 ; Co-Head --
Consumer Banking  from September 2014 to January 2019; and
Preferred and Small Business Banking Executive from April 2011
to September 2014.
Aditya Bhas in (48) Chief Techn ology & Information Officer
since October 2021; Chief Information Officer and Head of
Technology for Consumer , Small Business, Wealth Management
and Employee Technology from October 2017 to October 2021;
CIO, Retail, Preferred & Wealth Management Technology , and
Wealth Management Operations from June 2015 to October
2017.
Darrin Stev e Boland (53) Chief Administrative  Officer  since
October 2021; President, Retail from February 2020 to October
2021; Head  of Consumer Lending from May 2017 to February
2020; Consumer Lending Executive from May 2015 to May 2017.
Alastair M. Borthwick (53) Chief Financial Officer  since
November 2021; Presid ent of Global Commercial Banking from
October 2012 to October 2021.Sheri Brons tein (53) Chief Human Resources  Officer since
January 2019; Global Human Resources Executive from July
2015 to January 2019; and HR Executive for Global Banking &
Markets from March 2010 to July 2015.
James P. DeMare (52) President, Global Markets  since
September 2020; Global Co-Head of FICC Trading and
Commercial Real Estate Banking from February 2015 to
September 2020.
Paul M. Donofrio (61) Vice Chair since November 2021;
Chief Financial Officer from August 2015 to November 2021;
Strategic Finance Executive from April 2015 to August 2015; and
Head of Global Corporate Credit and Transaction Banking from
January 2012 to April 2015.
Geoffrey S. Greener (57) Chief Risk Officer  since April
2014; Head of Enterprise Capital Management from April 2011 to
April 2014.
Matthew M. Koder (50) President, Global Corporate &
Investment Banking  since December 2018; President of APAC
from March 2012 to December 2018.
Kathleen A. Knox (58) President, The Private Bank since
November 2017; Head of Business Banking from October 2014
to November 2017; and Retail Banking & Distribution Executive
from June 2011 to October 2014.
Bernard A. Mensah (53) President, International,  CEO of
Merrill Lynch Internation al (MLI), BANA  London Branch Head
since August 2020. President of UK and Central and Eastern
Europe, the Middle East, Africa, CEO of MLI, BANA  London
Branch and Co-Head of Global Fixed Income Currency and
Commodities (FICC) Trading from September 2019 to August
2020; Co-Head of Glob al FICC Trading from March 2015 to
September 2019.
Lauren A. Mogensen (59) Global General Counsel  since
November 2021; Head of Global Compliance & Operational Risk,
and Reputational Risk from December 2013 to October 2021.
Brian T. Moynihan (62) Chair of the Board  since October
2014, and President, Chief Executive Officer, and member of the
Board of Directors since January 2010.
Thong M. Nguyen (63) Vice Chair, Head of Global Strategy
& Enterprise Platforms since October 2021;  Vice Chairman
from January 2019 to October 2021; Co-Head -- Consumer
Banking from September 2014 to January 2019; Retail Banking
Executive from April 2014 to September 2014; and Retail
Strategy , and Operations & Digital Banking Executive from
September 2012 to April 2014.
Thomas M. Scrivener (50) Chief Operations Executive
since October 2021; Head of Consumer , Small Business &
Wealth Management Operations from October 2019 to October
2021; Global Real Estate and Enterprise Initiatives Executive
from September 2018 to October 2019; Enterprise Scenario
Planning and Execution Executive from May 2016 to September
2018; Enterp rise Stress Testing, Recovery & Resolution Planning
Executive from June 2014 to March 2016.
Andrew M. Sieg (54) President, Merrill Wealth
Management since January 2017; and Head of Global Wealth  &
Retirement Solutions with Merrill Lynch from October 2011 to
January 2017.
Bruce R. Thompson (57) Vice Chair , Head of Enterprise
Credit  since October 2021; Vice Chairman, Head of Institutional
Credit Exposure Management (from Decem ber 2020) and
Wholesale Credit Underwriting and Monitoring (from May 2021)
to October 2021; Vice Chairman, President  of the EU &
Switzerland and CEO of Bank of America Europ e DAC from May
2018 to
Bank of America 172
December 2020; Vice Chairman of Bank of America Corporation
from March 2016 to May 2018; Managing Director from July 2015
to March 2016; Chief Financial Officer from July 2011 to July
2015.
Information included under the following captions in the
Corporation’ s proxy statement relating to its 2022 annual meeting
of sharehol ders (the 2022 Proxy Statement) is incorporated
herein by reference:
●    “Proposal 1: Electing directors – Our director nominees;”
●    “Corporate governance – Additional corporate governance
information;”● “Corporate governance – Committees and membership;” and
●    “Corporate governance – Board meetings and attendance.”
Item 11. Executive Compensation
Information included under the following captions in the 2022
Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference:
●    “Compensation discussion and analysis;”
●    “Compensation and Human Capital Committee report;”
●    “Executive compensation;”
●    “Corporate governance;” and
●    “Director compensation.”
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters
Information included under the following caption in the 2022 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference:
●    “Stock ownership of directors, executive of ficers, and certain beneficial owners.”
The table below presents information on equity compensation plans at December 31, 2021:
Plan Category (a) Number of Shares to
be Issued Under
Outstanding Options,
Warrants and Rights (b) Weighted-average
Exercise Price of
Outstanding Options,
Warrants and Rights (c) Number of Shares
Remaining for Future
Issuance Under Equity
Compensation Plans
(excluding securities
reflected in column (a)) 
Plans approved by shareholders 188,687,164 — 254,845,261 
Plans not approved by shareholders — — — 
Total 188,687,164 — 254,845,261 
This table  does not include 593,890  vested restricted stock units and stock option gain deferrals at December 31, 2021 that were assumed by the Corporation in connection with prior acquisitions
under whose plans the awards were originally granted.
Consists of outstanding restricted stock units. Includes 3,671,576 vested restricted stock units subject to a required twelve-month holding period.
Restricted stock units do not have an exercise price and are delivered without any payment or consideration.
Amount represents shares of common stock available for future issuance under the Bank of America Corporation Equity Plan.
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions, and Director Independence
Information included under the following captions in the 2022
Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference:
●    “Related person and certain other transactions;” and
●    “Corporate governance – Director independence.”Item 14.  Principal Accounting Fees and
Services
Information included under the following caption in the 2022
Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference:
●    “Proposal 3: Ratifyin g the appointment of our independent
registered public accounting firm for 2022.”(1) (2) (3) (4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
173 Bank of America
Part IV
Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules     
The following documents are filed as part of this report:
(1) Financial Statements:
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID 238)
Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019
Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2021 and 2020
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders’  Equity for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
(2) Schedules:
None
(3) Index to Exhibits
With the exception of the information expressly incorporated herein by reference, the 2022 Proxy  Statement shall not be deemed filed
as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Incorporated by Reference
Exhibit No.Description Notes FormExhibitFiling Date File No.
3.1 Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended and in effect on the date hereof 1
3.2 Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Corporation as in effect on the date hereof 1
4.1 Indenture dated as of January 1, 1995 (for senior debt securities) between registrant (successor to
NationsBank Corporation) and BankAmerica National Trust CompanyS-3 4.1 2/1/95 33-57533
4.2 First Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 18, 1998 between registrant and U.S. Bank
Trust National Association (successor to BankAmerica National Trust Company) to the indenture
dated as of January 1, 1995 (See Exhibit 4.1)8-K 4.3 11/18/98 1-6523
4.3 Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 7, 2001 between registrant, U.S. Bank
Trust National Association, as Prior Trustee, and The Bank of New York, as Successor Trustee to
the indenture dated as of January 1, 1995 (See Exhibit 4.1)8-K 4.4 6/14/01 1-6523
4.4 Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 28, 2004 between registrant and The Bank of New
York to the indenture dated as of January 1, 1995 (See Exhibit 4.1)8-K 4.2 8/27/04 1-6523
4.5 Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 28, 2006 between the registrant and The Bank of
New York to the indenture dated as of January 1, 1995 (See Exhibit 4.1)S-3 4.6 5/5/06 333-133852
4.6 Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 1, 2008 between registrant and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (successor to The Bank of New York) to the indenture dated
as of January 1, 1995 (See Exhibit 4.1)8-K 4.1 12/5/08 1-6523
4.7 Sixth Supplemental Indenture dated as of February 23, 2011 between registrant and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. to the indenture dated as of January 1, 1995 (See Exhibit
4.1)10-K 4(ee) 2/25/11 1-6523
4.8 Seventh Supplemental Indenture dated as of January 13, 2017 between registrant and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. to the indenture dated as of January 1, 1995 (See Exhibit
4.1)8-K 4.1 1/13/17 1-6523
4.9 Eighth Supplemental Indenture dated as of February 23, 2017 between registrant and the Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. to the indenture dated as of January 1, 1995 (See Exhibit
4.1)10-K 4(a) 2/23/17 1-6523
4.10 Successor Trustee Agreement effective December 15, 1995 between registrant (successor to
NationsBank Corporation) and First Trust of New York, National Association, as successor trustee
to BankAmerica National Trust CompanyS-3 4.2 6/28/96 333-07229
4.11 Agreement of Appointment and Acceptance dated as of December 29, 2006 between registrant
and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.10-K 4(aaa) 2/28/07 1-6523
4.12 Form of Senior Registered Note S-3 4.12 5/1/15 333-202354
4.13 Form of Registered Global Senior Medium-Term Note, Series L S-3 4.13 5/1/15 333-202354
4.14 Form of Master Registered Global Senior Medium-Term Note, Series L S-3 4.14 5/1/15 333-202354
4.15 Form of Registered Global Senior Medium-Term Note, Series M 8-K 4.2 1/13/17 1-6523
4.16 Form of Master Registered Global Senior Medium-Term Note, Series M 8-K 4.3 1/13/17 1-6523
4.17 Indenture dated as of January 1, 1995 (for subordinated debt securities) between registrant
(successor to NationsBank Corporation) and The Bank of New YorkS-3 4.5 2/1/95 33-57533
4.18 First Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 28, 1998 between registrant and The Bank of
New York to the indenture dated as of January 1, 1995 (See Exhibit 4.17)8-K 4.8 11/18/98 1-6523
Bank of America 174
Incorporated by Reference
Exhibit No.Description Notes FormExhibitFiling Date File No.
4.19 Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of January 25, 2007 between registrant and The Bank of
New York Trust Company, N.A. (successor to The Bank of New York) to the indenture dated as of
January 1, 1995 (See Exhibit 4.17)S-4 4.3 3/16/07 333-141361
4.20 Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of February 23, 2011 between registrant and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (formerly The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.) to the
indenture dated as of January 1, 1995 (See Exhibit 4.17)10-K 4(ff) 2/25/11 1-6523
4.21 Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of February 23, 2017 between registrant and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. to the indenture dated as of January 1, 1995 (See Exhibit
4.17)10-K 4(i) 2/23/17 1-6523
4.22 Indenture dated as of June 27, 2018 (for senior debt securities) between the registrant and The
Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.S-3 4.3 6/27/18 333-224523
4.23 Form of Registered Global Senior Medium-Term Note, Series N (prior to August 2021) S-3 4.4 6/27/18 333-224523
4.24 Form of Master Registered Global Senior Medium-Term Note, Series N (prior to August 2021) S-3 4.5 6/27/18 333-224523
4.25 Form of Registered Global Senior Medium-Term Note, Series N (from August 2021) S-3 4.4 8/2/21 333-257399
4.26 Form of Master Registered Global Senior Medium-Term Note, Series N (from August 2021) S-3 4.5 8/2/21 333-257399
4.27 Indenture dated as of June 27, 2018 (for subordinated debt securities) between the registrant and
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.S-3 4.6 6/27/18 333-224523
4.28Form of Registered Global Subordinated Medium-Term Note, Series N (prior to August 2021)S-3 4.7 6/27/18 333-224523
4.29Form of Registered Global Subordinated Medium-Term Note, Series N (from August 2021)S-3 4.7 8/2/21 333-257399
Registrant and its subsidiaries have other long-term debt agreements, but these are omitted
pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K. Copies of these agreements will be furnished to
the Commission on request
4.30 Description of the Corporation's Securities 1
10.1 Bank of America Pension Restoration Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009
(Pension Restoration Plan)2 10-K 10(c) 2/27/09 1-6523
10.2 First Amendment to the Pension Restoration Plan dated December 18, 2009 2 10-K 10(c) 2/26/10 1-6523
10.3 Second Amendment to the Pension Restoration Plan dated June 29, 2012 2 10-K 10(a) 2/28/13 1-6523
10.4 Third Amendment to the Pension Restoration Plan dated March 26, 2013 2 10-K 10.4 2/19/20 1-6523
10.5 Fourth Amendment to the Pension Restoration Plan dated August 22, 2013 2 10-K 10.5 2/19/20 1-6523
10.6 Fifth Amendment to the Pension Restoration Plan dated December 5, 2014 2 10-K 10.6 2/19/20 1-6523
10.7 Sixth Amendment to the Pension Restoration Plan dated December 15, 2016 2 10-K 10.7 2/19/20 1-6523
10.8 NationsBank Corporation Benefit Security Trust dated as of June 27, 1990 2 10-K 10(t) 3/27/91 1-6523
10.9 First Supplement to NationsBank Corporation Benefit Security Trust dated as of
November 30, 19922 10-K 10(v) 3/24/93 1-6523
10.10 NationsBank Corporation Benefit Security Trust Trustee Removal/Appointment Agreement dated as
of December 19, 19952 10-K 10(o) 3/29/96 1-6523
10.11 Bank of America Deferred Compensation Plan (formerly known as the Bank of America 401(k)
Restoration Plan) as amended and restated effective January 1, 20152 10-K 10(c) 2/25/15 1-6523
10.12 First Amendment to the Bank of America Deferred Compensation Plan (formerly known as the
Bank of America 401(k) Restoration Plan), as amended and restated effective January 1, 20152 10-K 10(vv) 2/24/16 1-6523
10.13 Second Amendment to the Bank of America Deferred Compensation Plan (formerly known as the
Bank of America 401(k) Restoration Plan), as amended and restated effective January 1, 20152 S-8 4(c) 11/19/19 333-234780
10.14 Third Amendment to the Bank of America Deferred Compensation Plan (formerly known as the
Bank of America 401(k) Restoration Plan), as amended and restated effective January 1, 20152 10-K 10.142/19/20 1-6523
10.15 Fourth Amendment to the Bank of America Deferred Compensation Plan (formerly known as the
Bank of America 401(k) Restoration Plan), as amended and restated effective January 1, 20152 10-K 10.15 2/24/21 1-6523
10.16 Bank of America Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective
December 10, 20022 10-K10(g) 3/3/03 1-6523
10.17 Amendment to Bank of America Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, dated January 23, 2013 2 10-K 10(d) 2/28/13 1-6523
10.18 Bank of America Director Deferral Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2005 2 10-K 10(g) 2/28/07 1-6523
10.19 Bank of America Director Deferral Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2019 2 10-K 10(f) 2/26/19 1-6523
10.20 Bank of America Corporation Key Employee Equity Plan (formerly known as the Key Associate
Stock Plan), as amended and restated effective May 6, 2015 (2015 KEEP)2 8-K 10.2 5/7/15 1-6523
10.21 First Amendment to the 2015 KEEP dated December 19, 2018 2 10-K10(mm) 2/26/19 1-6523
10.22 Second Amendment to the 2015 KEEP dated April 24, 2019 2 8-K 10.1 4/24/19 1-6523
175 Bank of America
Incorporated by Reference
Exhibit No.Description Notes FormExhibitFiling Date File No.
10.23 Bank of America Corporation Equity Plan (formerly known as the Key Employee Equity Plan), as
amended and restated effective April 20, 2021 (2021 BACEP)2 8-K 10.1 4/22/21 1-6523
10.24 Form of Cash-settled Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2016 and subsequent
grants) under the 2015 KEEP2 10-Q 10(a) 5/2/16 1-6523
10.25 Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the 2015 KEEP and
the 2021 BACEP2 10-K 10(h) 2/26/19 1-6523
10.26 Form of Time-based Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2019) under the 2015
KEEP2 10-Q 10(a) 4/26/19 1-6523
10.27 Form of Performance Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2019) under the 2015
KEEP2 10-Q 10(b) 4/26/19 1-6523
10.28 Form of Time-based Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2020) under the 2015
KEEP2 10-Q 10.1 5/1/20 1-6523
10.29 Form of Performance Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2020) under the 2015
KEEP2 10-Q 10.2 5/1/20 1-6523
10.30 Form of Time-based Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2021) under the 2015
KEEP2 10-Q 10.1 4/29/21 1-6523
10.31 Form of Performance Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2021) under the 2015
KEEP2 10-Q 10.2 4/29/21 1-6523
10.32 Form of Cash-settled Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement under the 2021 BACEP 1, 2
10.33 Form of Time-Based Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement under the 2021 BACEP 1, 2
10.34 Form of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement under the 2021 BACEP 1, 2
10.35 Form of Phantom Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement 1, 2
10.36 ESA Retention Agreement dated March 15, 2004 between the Corporation and Dean C. Athanasia 2 10-Q 10(c) 4/26/19 1-6523
10.37 Amendment to various plans in connection with FleetBoston Financial Corporation merger dated
October 27, 20032 10-K 10(v) 3/1/04 1-6523
10.38 FleetBoston Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan effective December 31, 2004 2 10-K 10(r) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.39 FleetBoston Executive Deferred Compensation Plan No. 2 effective December 16, 2003 2 10-K 10(u) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.40 FleetBoston Executive Supplemental Plan effective December 31, 2004 2 10-K 10(v) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.41 Retirement Income Assurance Plan for Legacy Fleet, as amended and restated effective
January 1, 20092 10-K 10(p) 2/26/10 1-6523
10.42 First Amendment to the Retirement Income Assurance Plan for Legacy Fleet, as amended and
restated effective January 1, 20092 10-K 10(I) 2/28/13 1-6523
10.43 Officer's Certificate of Global Compensation, Benefits and Shared Services Executive Regarding
Wanger Divestiture2 10-K 10(c) 2/25/11 1-6523
10.44 Trust Agreement for the FleetBoston Executive Deferred Compensation Plans No. 1 and 2 dated
December 17, 19972 10-K 10(x) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.45 Trust Agreement for the FleetBoston Executive Supplemental Plan dated June 19, 1996 2 10-K 10(y) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.46 Trust Agreement for the FleetBoston Retirement Income Assurance Plan and the FleetBoston
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan dated June 19, 19962 10-K 10(z) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.47 FleetBoston Directors Deferred Compensation and Stock Unit Plan effective January 1, 2004 2 10-K 10(aa) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.48 BankBoston Corporation and its Subsidiaries Deferred Compensation Plan dated December 24,
20012 10-K 10(cc) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.49 BankBoston Director Stock Award Plan effective July 1, 1998 2 10-K 10(hh) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.50 BankBoston Corporation Directors’ Deferred Compensation Plan effective March 1, 1988 2 10-K 10(ii) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.51 BankBoston, N.A. Directors’ Deferred Compensation Plan effective March 1, 1988 2 10-K 10(jj) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.52 Description of BankBoston Director Retirement Benefits Exchange Program 2 10-K 10(ll) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.53 Global amendment to definition of “change in control” or “change of control,” together with a list of
plans affected by such amendment2 10-K 10(oo) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.54 Employment Agreement dated October 27, 2003 between registrant and Brian T. Moynihan 2 S-4 10(d) 12/4/03 333-110924
10.55 Cancellation Agreement dated October 26, 2005 between registrant and Brian T. Moynihan 2 8-K 10.1 10/26/05 1-6523
10.56 Agreement Regarding Participation in the Fleet Boston Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
dated October 26, 2005 between registrant and Brian T. Moynihan2 8-K 10.2 10/26/05 1-6523
10.57 Employment Letter dated May 1, 2008 between Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. and Thomas K. Montag
and Summary of Agreement with respect to Post-Employment Medical Coverage2 10-K10(bbb) 2/26/10 1-6523
Bank of America 176
Incorporated by Reference
Exhibit No.Description Notes FormExhibitFiling Date File No.
10.58 Securities Purchase Agreement dated August 25, 2011 between registrant and Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (including forms of the certificate of Designations, Warrant and Registration Rights
Agreement)8-K 1.1 8/25/11 1-6523
10.59 Amended and Restated Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement (Multiple Aircraft) dated June 26, 2018
between Bank of America, N.A. and Brian T. Moynihan2 10-Q 10 7/30/18 1-6523
10.60 Form of Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement (Multiple Aircraft) between Bank of America, N.A. and
certain executive officers of the Corporation, including certain Named Executive Officers2 10-Q 10(b) 6/30/19 1-6523
21 Direct and Indirect Subsidiaries of Bank of America Corporation As of December 31, 2021 1
22 Subsidiary Issuers of Guaranteed Securities 10-Q 22 10/29/21 1-6523
23 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 1
24 Power of Attorney 1
31.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
20021
31.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
20021
32.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 20021
32.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 20021
101.INSInline XBRL Instance Document 3
101.SCHInline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 1
101.CALInline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 1
101.LABInline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 1
101.PREInline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 1
101.DEFInline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definitions Linkbase Document 1
104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted as Inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101)
 Filed Herewith.
 Exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
 The instance document does not appear in the interactive data file because its XBRL  tags are embedded within the inline XBRL  document.
Item 16. Form 10-K Summary
Not applicable.(1)
(2)
(3)
177 Bank of America
Signatures
Pursuant to the requirem ents of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registr ant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 22, 2022
Bank of America Corporation
By: /s/ Brian T. Moynihan
Brian T. Moynihan
Chief Executive Officer
Pursuant to the requirem ents of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
Signature Title Date
/s/ Brian T. MoynihanChief Executive Officer, President, Chair and Director
(Principal Executive Officer)February 22, 2022
Brian T. Moynihan
   
*/s/ Alastair M. Borthwick Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer)February 22, 2022
Alastair M. Borthwick
   
*/s/ Rudolf A. BlessChief Accounting Officer
(Principal Accounting Officer)February 22, 2022
Rudolf A. Bless
   
*/s/ Sharon L. Allen
Director February 22, 2022
Sharon L. Allen
*/s/ Susan S. Bies
Director February 22, 2022
Susan S. Bies
*/s/ Frank P. Bramble, Sr.
Director February 22, 2022
Frank P. Bramble, Sr.
   
*/s/ Pierre J. P. de WeckDirector February 22, 2022
Pierre J. P. de Weck
   
*/s/ Arnold W. DonaldDirector February 22, 2022
Arnold W. Donald
*/s/ Linda P. HudsonDirector February 22, 2022
Linda P. Hudson
*/s/ Monica C. LozanoDirector February 22, 2022
Monica C. Lozano
*/s/ Thomas J. MayDirector February 22, 2022
Thomas J. May
*/s/ Lionel L. Nowell, IIIDirector February 22, 2022
Lionel L. Nowell, III
Bank of America 178
Signature Title Date
*/s/ Denise L. Ramos
Director February 22, 2022
Denise L. Ramos
*/s/ Clayton S. Rose
Director February 22, 2022
Clayton S. Rose
*/s/ Michael D. White
Director February 22, 2022
Michael D. White
*/s/ Thomas D. Woods
Director February 22, 2022
Thomas D. Woods
*/s/ R. David Yost
Director February 22, 2022
R. David Yost
   
*/s/ Maria T. ZuberDirector February 22, 2022
Maria T. Zuber
*By /s/ Ross E. Jeffries, Jr.  
Ross E. Jeffries, Jr.
Attorney-in-Fact
179 Bank of America
