UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
☑ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2020
or
☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from      to
 
Commission file number:
1-6523
Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter:
Bank of America Corporation
State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization:
Delaware
IRS Employer Identification No.:
56-0906609
Address of principal executive offices:
Bank of America Corporate Center
100 N. Tryon Street
Charlotte, North Carolina 28255
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:
(704) 386-5681
Securities registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class Trading Symbol(s)Name of each exchange on which
registered
Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share BAC New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share BAC PrE New York Stock Exchange
 of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share BAC PrA New York Stock Exchange
of 6.000% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series EE
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share BAC PrB New York Stock Exchange
 of 6.000% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series GG
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share BAC PrK New York Stock Exchange
 of 5.875% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series HH
7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L BAC PrL New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,200th interest in a share BML PrG New York Stock Exchange
of Bank of America Corporation Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1
 1 Bank of America
Title of each class Trading Symbol(s)Name of each exchange on which
registered
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,200th interest in a share BML PrH New York Stock Exchange
 of Bank of America Corporation Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,200th interest in a share BML PrJ New York Stock Exchange
 of Bank of America Corporation Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 4
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,200th interest in a share BML PrL New York Stock Exchange
 of Bank of America Corporation Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 5
Floating Rate Preferred Hybrid Income Term Securities of BAC Capital BAC/PF New York Stock Exchange
 Trust XIII (and the guarantee related thereto)
5.63% Fixed to Floating Rate Preferred Hybrid Income Term Securities BAC/PG New York Stock Exchange
 of BAC Capital Trust XIV (and the guarantee related thereto)
Income Capital Obligation Notes initially due December 15, 2066 of MER PrK New York Stock Exchange
Bank of America Corporation
Senior Medium-Term Notes, Series A, Step Up Callable Notes, due BAC/31B New York Stock Exchange
 November 28, 2031 of BofA Finance LLC (and the guarantee
of the Registrant with respect thereto)
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share BAC PrM New York Stock Exchange
 of 5.375% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series KK
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share BAC PrN New York Stock Exchange
of 5.000% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series LL
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share BAC PrO New York Stock Exchange
of 4.375% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series NN
Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share BAC PrP New York Stock Exchange
of 4.125% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series PP
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ☐ No ☑
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ☐ No ☑
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes ☑ No ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405
of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit
such files).  Yes ☑ No ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or
an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth
company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer ☑ Accelerated filer ☐ Non-accelerated filer ☐ Smaller reporting company ☐
                                            Emerging growth company ☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any
new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of its internal
control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that
prepared or issued its audit report.  ☑
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes ☐ No ☑
As of June 30, 2020, the aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock (“Common Stock”) held by non-affiliates was approximately
$205,771,938,594. At February 23, 2021, there were 8,633,185,862 shares of Common Stock outstanding.
Documents incorporated by reference: Portions of the definitive proxy statement relating to the registrant’s 2021 annual meeting of stockholders are
incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K in response to Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of Part III.
 2 Bank of America
Table of Contents
Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries
Part I  Page
Item 1. Business 2
Item 1A .Risk Factors 7
Item 1B. Unresolved Staf f Comments 22
Item 2. Properties 22
Item 3. Legal Proceedings 22
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 22
Part II   
Item 5. Market for Registrant’ s Common Equity , Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities22
Item 6. Selected Financial Data 22
Item 7. Management’ s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 23
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 93
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 93
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 175
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 175
Item 9B. Other Information 175
Part III   
Item 10. Directors, Executive Of ficers and Corporate Governance 175
Item 11. Executive Compensation 175
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 176
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related T ransactions, and Director Independence 176
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 176
Part IV   
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 177
Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 181
1 Bank of America
Part I
Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries
Item 1. Business
Bank of America Corpor ation is a Delaware corporation, a bank
holding company (BHC) and a financial holding company . When
used in this report, “the Corporation,” “we,” “us” and “our” may
refer to Bank of America Corporation individually , Bank of
America Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of Bank of
America Corporation’ s subsidiaries or affiliates. As part of our
efforts to streamline the Corporation’ s organizational structure
and reduce complexity and costs, the Corporation has reduced
and intends to continue  to reduce the number of its corporate
subsidiaries, including through intercompany mergers.
Bank of America is one of the world’ s largest financial
institutions, serving individual consumers, small- and middle-
market businesses, institutional investors, large corporations
and governments with a full range of banking, investing, asset
management and other financial and risk management products
and services. Our principal executive offices are located in the
Bank of America Corporate Center , 100 North Tryon Street,
Charlotte, North Carolina 28255.
Bank of America’ s website is www .bankofamerica.com, and
the Invest or Relations portion of our website is
http://investor .bankofamerica.com. We use our website to
distribute company information, including as a means of
disclosing material, non-public information and for complying
with our disclosure obligations under Regu lation FD. We
routinely post and make accessible financial and other
information, including environmental, social and governance
(ESG) information, regarding the Corporation on our website.
Investors should monitor the Investor Relations portion of our
website, in addition to our press releases, U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, public conference calls
and webcasts. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q , Current Reports on Form 8-K and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchan ge Act of 1934
(Exchange Act) are available on the Investor Relations portion of
our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the SEC
and at the SEC’ s webs ite, www .sec.gov . Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the information contained on our website as
referenced in this paragraph is not incorporated by reference
into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Also, we make available
on the Investor Relation s portion of our website: (i) our Code of
Conduct; (ii) our Corporate Governance Guidelines; and (iii) the
charter of each active committee of our Board of Directors (the
Board). W e also intend to disclose any amendments to our Code
of Conduct and waivers  of our Code of Conduct required to be
disclosed by the rules of the SEC and the New York Stock
Exchange on the Investor Relations portion of our website. All of
these corporate governance materials are also available free of
charge in print to shareholders who request them in writing to:
Bank of America Corporation, Attention: Office of the Corporate
Secretary , Bank of America Corporate Center , 100 North Tryon
Street, NC1-007-56-06, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255.
Coronavirus Disease
The Corporation has been, and continues to be, impacted by the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic (the
pandemic). In an attempt to contain the spread and impact of the
pandemic, travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-
place orders and other limitations on business activity havebeen implemented. Additionally , there has been a decline in
global econ omic activit y, reduced U.S. and global economic
output and a deterioration in macroeconomic conditions in the
U.S. and globally . This has resulted in, among other things,
higher rates of unemployment and underemployment and
caused volatility and disruptions in the global financial markets
during 2020, including the energy and commodity markets.
In response to the pandemic, the Corporation has been
taking a proactive role in addressing the impact of the pandemic
on its emplo yees, its operations, its clients and the community ,
including the implementation of protocols and processes to
execute its business continuity plans and help protect its
employees and support its clients. The Corporation is managing
its response to the pandemic according to its Enterprise
Response Framework, which invokes centralized management
of the crisis  event and the integration of the Corporation’ s
enterprise-wide response.
Although some restrictive measures have been eased in
certain areas, many restrictive measures remain in place or
have been reinstated, and in some cases additional restrictive
measures are being or may need to be implemented in light of
the increase in COVID- 19 cases in recent months in the U.S.
and in many other regions of the world. Businesses, market
participants, our counterparties and clients, and the U.S. and
global economies have been negatively impacted and are likely
to remain so for an extended period of time, as there remains
significant uncertainty about the magnitude and duration of the
pandemic and the timing and strength of an economic recovery .
For more information regarding COVID-19, see Item 1A. Risk
Factors – Coronavirus Disease on page 7 and Executive
Summary – Recent Developments – COVID-19 Pandemic in the
MD&A on page 25.
Segments
Through our various bank and nonbank subsidia ries throughout
the U.S. and in internat ional markets, we provide a diversified
range of banking and nonbank financial services and products
through four business segments: Consumer Banking , Global
Wealth & Investment Management (GWIM), Global Banking and
Global Markets,  with the remaining operations recorded in All
Other . Additional information related to our business segments
and the products and services they provide is included in the
information set forth on pages 36 through 46 of Item 7.
Management’ s Discussi on and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations (MD&A) and Note 23 – Business
Segment Information  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Competition
We operat e in a highly competitive environment. Our
competitors include banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment
banking firms, investment advisory firms, brokerage firms,
investment companies, insurance companies, mortgage banking
companies, credit card issuers, mutual fund companies, hedge
funds, private equity firms, and e-commerce and other internet-
based companies. We compete with some of these competitors
globally and with others on a regional or product specific basis.
Competition is based on a number of factors including,
among others, customer service, quality and range of products
and services offered, price, reputation, interest rates on loans
and deposits, lending limits and customer convenience. Our
ability to continue to compete effectively also depends in large
part on our ability to attract new employees and retain and
Bank of America 2
motivate our existing employees, while managing compensation
and other costs.
Human Capital Resources
We strive to make Bank of America a great place to work for our
employees. We value our employees and seek to establish and
maintain human resource policies that are consistent with our
core values and that help realize the power of our people. Our
Board and its committ ees, including the Com pensation and
Human Capital, Audit, Enterprise Risk, and Corporate
Governance, ESG and Sustainability Committees, provide
oversight of our human capital management strategies,
programs and practices.  The Corporation’ s senior management
provides regular briefings on human capital matters to the Board
and its Committees to facilitate the Board’ s oversight.
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Corporation employed
approximately 213,000 and 208,000 employee s, of which 82
percent were  located in the U.S. at both dates. None of our U.S.
employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement.
Additionally , in 2020 and 2019, the Corporation’ s compensation
and benefits  expense was $32.7 billion and $32.0 billion, or 59
percent and 58 percent, of total noninterest expense.
Diversity and Inclusion
The Corpora tion’s comm itment to diversity and inclusion starts
at the top of the Corporation with oversight from our Board and
CEO. The Corporation’ s senior management sets the diversity
and inclusion goals of the Corporation, and the Chief Human
Resources Officer and Chief Diversity & Inclusion Officer partner
with our CEO and senior management to drive our diversity and
inclusion strategy , progr ams, initiatives and policies. The Global
Diversity and Inclusion Council, which consists of senior
executives from every line of business and is chaired by our
CEO, has been in place for over 20 years. The Council sponsors
and supports business, operating unit and regional diversity and
inclusion councils to ensure alignment to enterprise diversity
strategies and goals.
Our practices and policies have resulted in strong
representation across the Corporation where our broad
employee population mirrors the clients and communities we
serve. We have a Board  and senior manageme nt team that are
47 percent and 50 percent racially , ethnically and gender
diverse. As of December 31, 2020, over 50 percent of
employees were women, and, among U.S.-based employees,
nearly 48 percent were people of color , 14 percent were
Black/African American and 19 percent were Hispanic/Latino. As
of December 31, 2020, the Corporation’ s top three management
levels in relation to the CEO were composed of more than 42
percent wom en and nearly 20 percent people of color . These
workforce diversity metrics are reported regularly to the senior
management team and to the Board and are publicly disclosed
on our website.
We invest in our leadership by offering a range of
development programs and resources that allow employees to
develop and progress in their careers. We reinforce our
commitment to diversity and inclusion by investing internally in
our employee networks and by facilitating conversations with
employees about racial, social and economic issues. Further , we
partner with various external organizations, which focus on
advancing diverse talen t. We also have practices in place for
attracting and retaining diverse talent, including campus
recruitment. For example, in 2020, approximately 45 percent of
our campus hires were women, and, in the U.S., approximately
54 percent were people of color .Employee Engagement and Talent Retention
As part of our ongoing efforts to make the Corporation a great
place to work, we have conducted a confidential annual
Employee Engagement Survey (Survey) for nearly two decades.
The Survey results are reviewed by the Board and senior
management and used to assist in reviewing the Corporation’ s
human capital strategies, programs and practices. In 2020, more
than 90 percent of the Corporation’ s employees participated in
the Survey , and our Employee Engagement Index, an overall
measure of employee satisfaction with the Corporation, was 91
percent. In 2020, we also had historically low turnover among
our employees of seven percent.
Fair and Equitable Compensation
The Corpora tion is committed to racial and gend er pay equity by
striving to fairly and equitably compensate all of our employees.
We maintain robust policies and practices that reinforce our
commitment, including reviews with oversight from our Board
and senior management. In 2020, our review covered our
regional hubs (U.S., U.K., France, Ireland, Hong Kong, and
Singapore) and India and showed that compensation received
by women, on average , was greater than 99 percent of that
received by men in comparable positions and, in the U.S.,
compensation received by people of color was, on average,
greater than 99 percent of that received by teammates who are
not people of color in comparable positions.
We also strive to pay our employees fairly based on market
rates for their roles, experience and how they perform, and we
regularly benchmark against other companies both within and
outside our industry to help ensure our pay is competitive. In the
first quarter of 2020, we raised our minimum hourly wage for
U.S. employees to $20 per hour, which is above all
governmental minimum wage levels in all jurisdictions in which
we operate in the U.S.
Health and Wellness – 2020 Focus
The Corporation also is committed to supporting employees’
physical, emotional and financial wellness by offering flexible
and compet itive benefit s, including comprehensive health and
insurance benefits and wellness resources. In 2020, we took
steps to support our employees during the ongoing health crisis
resulting from the pandemic, including monitorin g guidance from
the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, medical
boards and health authorities and sharing such guidance with
our employe es. In addition, as a result of the pandemic we
transitioned to a work- from-home posture for the substantial
majority of our employees and provided various benefits and
resources related to the pandemic, including the implementation
of child and adult care solutions, offering no-cost COVID-19
testing and mental health resources and additional support for
teammates who work in the office, such as transportation and
meal subsidies. We continue to engage with state and national
governments to understand their vaccination plans for essential
workers, including the extent to which that may include some of
our employees, and with our employees to educate them about
vaccines and the importance of being vaccinated. For more
information on our response to the pandemic, including with
respect to human capital measures, see Executive Summary –
Recent Developments – COVID-19 Pandemic on page 25.
Government Supervision and Regulation
The following discussion describes, among  other things,
elements of an extensive regulatory framewor k applicable to
BHCs, financial holding companies, banks and broker-dealers,
including specific information about Bank of America.
3 Bank of America
We are subject to an extensive regulatory framework
applicable to BHCs, financial holding companies and banks and
other financial services entities. U.S. federal regulation of banks,
BHCs and financial holding companies is intended primarily for
the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund
(DIF) rather than for the protection of shareholders and
creditors.
As a registered financial holding company and BHC, the
Corporation is subject to the supervision of, and regular
inspection by, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System (Federal Reserve). Our U.S. bank subsidiaries (the
Banks), organized as national banking associations, are subject
to regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Federal Reserve. In
addition, the Federal Reserve and the OCC have adopted
guidelines that establish minimum standards for the design,
implementation and board oversight of BHCs’ and national
banks’ risk governance frameworks. U.S. financial holding
companies, and the companies under their control, are permitted
to engage in activities considered “financial in nature” as defined
by the Gramm-Leach-B liley Act and related Federal Reserve
interpretations. The Corporation's status as a financial holding
company is conditioned upon maintaining certain eligibility
requirements for both the Corporation and its U.S. depository
institution subsidiaries, including minimum capital ratios,
supervisory ratings and, in the case of the depository
institutions, at least satisfactory Community Reinvestment Act
ratings. Failu re to be an eligible financial holding  company could
result in the Federal Reserve limiting Bank of America's
activities, including potential acquisitions.
The scope of the laws and regulations and the intensity of
the supervis ion to which we are subject have increased over the
past several years, beginning with the response to the financial
crisis, as well as other factors such as technological and market
changes. In addition, the banking and financial services sector is
subject to substantial regulatory enforcement and fines. Many of
these chang es have occurred as a result of the 2010 Dodd-
Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the
Financial Reform Act). We cannot assess whether there will be
any additional major changes in the regulatory environment and
expect that our busines s will remain subject to continuing and
extensive regulation and supervision.
We are also subject to various other laws and regulations, as
well as supervision and examination by other regulatory
agencies, all of which directly or indirectly affect our entities and
management and our ability to make distributions to
shareholders. For instance, our broker-dealer subsidiaries are
subject to both U.S. and international regulation, including
supervision by the SEC,  Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
and New York Stock Exchange, among others; our futures
commission merchant subsidiaries supporting commodities and
derivatives businesses in the U.S. are subject to regulation by
and superv ision of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission (CFTC), National Futures Associati on, the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange and in the case of the Banks, certain
banking regulators; our insurance activities are subject to
licensing and regulation by state insurance regulatory agencies;
and our consumer financial products and services are regulated
by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).
Our non-U.S. businesses are also subject to extensive
regulation by various non-U.S. regulators, including
governments, securities exchanges, prudential regulators,
central bank s and other regulatory bodies, in the jurisdictions in
which those businesses operate. For example, our financialservices entities in the United Kingdom (U.K.), Ireland and
France are subject to regulation by the Prudential Regulatory
Authority and Financial Conduct Authority , the European Central
Bank and Central Bank of Ireland, and the Autorité de Contrôle
Prudentiel et de Résolution and Autorité des Marchés
Financiers, respectively .
Source of Strength
Under the Financial Reform Act and Federal Reserve policy ,
BHCs are expected to act as a source of finan cial strength to
each subsid iary bank and to commit resources to support each
such subsidiary . Similarly , under the cross-guarantee provisions
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act
of 1991 (FDICIA), in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated
by the FDIC, either as a result of default of a bank subsidiary or
related to FDIC assistance provided to such a subsidiary in
danger of default, the affiliate banks of such a subsidiary may be
assessed for the FDIC’ s loss, subject to certain exceptions.
Transactions with Affiliates
Pursuant to Section 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, as
implemented by the Federal Reserve’ s Regulation W, the Banks
are subject to restrictions that limit certain types of transactions
between the Banks and their nonbank affiliates. In general, U.S.
banks are subject to quantitative and qualitative limits on
extensions of credit, purchases of assets and certain other
transactions involving their nonbank affiliates. Additionally ,
transactions between U.S. banks and their nonbank affiliates are
required to be on arm’s length terms and must be consistent
with standards of safety and soundness.
Deposit Insurance
Deposits placed at U.S. domiciled banks are insured by the
FDIC, subject to limits and conditions of applicable law and the
FDIC’ s regulations. Pursuant to the Financial Reform Act, FDIC
insurance coverage limits are $250,000 per customer . All
insured depo sitory institutions are required to pay assessments
to the FDIC in order to fund the DIF .
The FDIC is required to maintain at least a designated
minimum ratio of the DIF to insured deposits in the U.S. The
FDIC adopted regulations that establish a long-term target DIF
ratio of greater than two percent. As of the date of this report,
the DIF ratio is below this required target, and the FDIC has
adopted a restoration plan that may result in increased deposit
insurance assessments . Deposit insurance assessment rates
are subject to change by the FDIC and will be impacted by the
overall economy and the stability of the banking industry as a
whole. For more information regarding deposit  insurance, see
Item 1A. Risk Factors – Regulatory , Compliance and Legal on
page 16.
Capital, Liquidity and Operational Requirements
As a financial holding company , we and our bank subsidiaries
are subject to the regula tory capital and liquidity  rules issued by
the Federal Reserve and other U.S. banking regulators,
including the OCC and the FDIC. These rules are complex and
are evolving  as U.S. and international regulatory authorities
propose and enact amendments to these rules. The Corporation
seeks to manage its capital position to maintain sufficient capital
to satisfy these regulat ory rules and to support our business
activities. These continually evolving rules are likely to influence
our planning processes and may require additional regulatory
capital and liquidity , as well as impose additional operational and
compliance costs on the Corporation.
For more information on regulatory capital rules, capital
composition and pending or proposed regulatory capital
Bank of America 4
changes, see Capital Management on page 50, and Note 16 –
Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions  to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, which are incorporated by reference in
this Item 1.
Distributions
We are subject to various regulatory policies and requirements
relating to capital actions, including payment of dividends and
common stock repurchases. For instance, Federal Reserve
regulations require major U.S. BHCs to submit a capital plan as
part of an annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review
(CCAR).
Our ability to pay dividends and make common stock
repurchases depends in part on our ability to maintain regulatory
capital levels above minimum requirements plus buffers and
non-capital standards established under the FDICIA. To the
extent that the Federal Reserve increases our stress capital
buffer (SCB), global systemically important bank (G-SIB)
surcharge or countercyclical capital buffer, our returns of capital
to shareholders could decrease. As part of its CCAR, the
Federal Reserve conducts stress testing on parts of our
business using hypothetical economic scenarios prepared by the
Federal Reserve. Those scenarios may affect our CCAR stress
test results, which may impact the level of our SCB. Additionally ,
the Federal Reserve may impose limitations or prohibitions on
taking capital actions such as paying or increasing common
stock dividends or repurchasing common stock. For example, as
a result of the economic uncertainty resulting from the
pandemic, the Federal Reserve required that during the second
half of 2020, all large banks, including the Corporation, suspend
share repurchase programs, except for repurchases to offset
shares awarded under equity-based compensation plans, and
limit commo n stock dividends to existing rates that did not
exceed the average of the last four quarters' net income. In the
first quarter of 2021, the Federal Reserve lifted the suspension
of share repurchase programs and permitted large banks to pay
common stock dividends and to repurchase shares in an amount
that, when combined with dividends paid, does not exceed the
average of net income over the last four quarters.
If the Federal Reserve finds that any of our Banks are not
“well-capitalized” or “well-managed,” we would  be required to
enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve to comply with
all applicable capital and management requirem ents, which may
contain additional limitations or conditions relating to our
activities. Additionally , the applicable federal regulatory authority
is authorized  to determine, under certain circum stances relating
to the financ ial condition  of a bank or BHC, that the payment of
dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to
prohibit payment thereof.
For more information regarding the requirements relating to
the payment of dividends, including the minimum capital
requirements, see Note 13 – Shareholders’ Equity  and Note 16
– Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions  to the Cons olidated
Financial Statements.
Many of our subsidiaries, including our bank and broker-
dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend
payments, or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the
flow of funds from those  subsidiaries to the parent company or
other subsidiaries. The rights of the Corporation, our
shareholders and our creditors to participate in any distribution
of the assets or earnings  of our subsidiaries is further subject to
the prior claims of creditors of the respective subsidiaries.Resolution Planning
As a BHC  with greater than $250 billion of assets, the
Corporation is required by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC to
periodically submit a plan for a rapid and orderly resolution in the
event of material financial distress or failure.
Such resolut ion plan is intended to be a detailed roadmap for
the orderly resolution of the BHC, including the continued
operations or solvent wind down of its material entities, pursuant
to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code under one or more hypothetical
scenarios assuming no extraordinary government assistance.
If both the Federal Reserve and the FDIC determine that the
BHC’ s plan is not credible, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC
may jointly impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity
requirements or restrictions on growth, activities or operations. A
summary of our plan is available on the Federal Reserve and
FDIC websites.
The FDIC also requires the submission of a resolution plan
for Bank of America, National Association (BANA), which must
describe how the insured depository institu tion would be
resolved under the bank resolution provisions of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act. A description of this plan is available on
the FDIC’ s website.
We continue to make substantial progress to enhance our
resolvability , including simplifying our legal entity structure and
business operations, and increasing our preparedness to
implement our resolution plan, both from a financial and
operational standpoint.
Across international jurisdictions, resolution planning is the
responsibility of national resolution authorities  (RA). Among
those, the jurisdictions of most impact to the Corporation are the
requirements associated  with subsidiaries in the U.K., Ireland
and France, where rules have been issued requiring the
submission of significant information about locally-incorporated
subsidiaries (including information on intra-group  dependencies,
legal entity separation and barriers to resolution) as well as the
Corporation’ s banking branches located in those jurisdictions
that are deemed to be material for resolution planning purposes.
As a result of the RA's review of the submitted information, we
could be required to take certain actions over the next several
years that could increase operating costs and potentially result
in the restructuring of certain businesses and subsidiaries.
For more information regarding our resolution plan, see Item
1A. Risk Factors – Liquidity on page 9.
Insolvency and the Orderly Liquidation Authority
Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC may be
appointed receiver of an insured depository institution if it is
insolvent or in certain other circumstances. In addition, under the
Financial Reform Act, when a systemically important financial
institution (SIFI) such as the Corporation is in default or danger
of default, the FDIC may be appointed recei ver in order to
conduct an orderly liquid ation of such institution. In the event of
such appointment, the FDIC could, among other things, invoke
the orderly liquidation authority , instead of the U.S. Bankruptcy
Code, if the Secretary of the Treasury makes certain financial
distress and systemic risk determinations. The orderly liquidation
authority is modeled in part on the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act, but also adopts certain concepts from the U.S. Bankruptcy
Code.
The orderly liquidation authority contains certain differences
from the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. For example, in certain
circumstances, the FDIC could permit payment of obligations it
determines to be systemically significant (e.g., short-term
5 Bank of America
creditors or operating creditors) in lieu of paying other
obligations (e.g., long-term creditors) without the need to obtain
creditors’ consent or prior court review . The insolvency and
resolution process could also lead to a large reduction or total
elimination of the value of a BHC’ s outstanding equity , as well as
impairment or elimination of certain debt.
Under the FDIC’ s “single point of entry” strategy for resolving
SIFIs, the FDIC could replace a distressed BHC with a bridge
holding company , which could continue operations and result in
an orderly resolution of the underlying bank, but whose equity is
held solely for the benefit of creditors of the original BHC.
Furthermore, the Federal Reserve requires that BHCs
maintain minimum levels of long-term debt required to provide
adequate loss absorbing capacity in the event of a resolution.
For more information regarding our resolution, see Item 1A.
Risk Factors – Liquidity on page 9.
Limitations on Acquisitions
The Riegle-N eal Intersta te Banking and Branching Efficiency Act
of 1994 permits a BHC to acquire banks located  in states other
than its home state without regard to state law, subject to certain
conditions, including the condition that the BHC, after and as a
result of the acquisition, controls no more than 10 percent of the
total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the
U.S. and no more than 30 percent or such lesser or greater
amount set by state law of such deposits in that state. At June
30, 2020, we held greater than 10 percent of the total amount of
deposits of insured depository institutions in the U.S.
In addition, the Financial Reform Act restricts acquisitions by
a financial institution if, as a result of the acqu isition, the total
liabilities of the financial institution would exceed 10 percent of
the total liabilities of all financial institutions in the U.S. At June
30, 2020, our liabilities did not exceed 10 percent of the total
liabilities of all financial institutions in the U.S.
The Volcker Rule
The Volcker Rule prohi bits insured depository institutions and
companies affiliated with insured depository institutions
(collectively , banking entities) from engaging  in short-term
proprietary trading of certain securities, derivatives, commodity
futures and options for their own account. The Volcker Rule also
imposes limits on banking entities’ investments in, and other
relationships with, hedge funds and private equity funds. The
Volcker Rule provides exemptions for certain activities, including
market making, underwriting, hedging, trading in government
obligations, insurance company activities and organizing and
offering hedge funds and private equity funds. The Volcker Rule
also clarifies that certain activities are not prohibited, including
acting as agent, broker or custodian. A banking entity with
significant trading operations, such as the Corporation, is
required to maintain a detailed compliance program to comply
with the restrictions of the V olcker Rule.
Derivatives
Our derivatives operations are subject to extensive regulation
globally . These operations are subject to regulation under the
Financial Reform Act, the European Union (EU) Markets in
Financial Instruments Directive and Regulation, the European
Market Infrastructure Regulation, analogous U.K. regulatory
regimes  and similar regulatory regimes in other jurisd ictions,
that regulate or will regulate the derivatives markets in which we
operate by, among other things: requiring clearing and exchange
trading of certain derivatives; imposing new capital, margin,
reporting, registration and business conduct requirements for
certain market participants; imposing position limits on certainover-the-counter (OTC) derivatives; and imposing derivatives
trading transparency requirements. Regulation s of derivatives
are already in ef fect in many markets in which we operate.
In addition, many G-20 jurisdictions, including the U.S., U.K.,
Germany and Japan, have adopted resolution stay regulations
to address concerns that the close-out of derivatives and other
financial contracts in resolution could impede orderly resolution
of G-SIBs, and additional jurisdictions are expected to follow
suit. Generally , these resolution stay regulations require
amendment of certain financial contracts to provide for
contractual recognition of stays of termination rights under
various statutory resolution regimes and a stay on the exercise
of cross-default rights based on an affiliate’ s entry into
insolvency proceedings. As resolution stay regulations of a
particular jurisdiction applicable to us go into effect, we amend
impacted financial contracts in compliance with such regulations
either as a regulated entity or as a counte rparty facing a
regulated entity in such jurisdiction.
Consumer Regulations
Our consumer businesses are subject to extensive regulation
and oversight by federal and state regulators. Certain federal
consumer finance laws to which we are subject, including the
Equal Credi t Opportunit y Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act,
Electronic Fund Transfer Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Real
Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Truth in Lending Act and
Truth in Savings Act, are enforced by the CFPB. Other federal
consumer finance laws, such as the Servicemembers Civil Relief
Act, are enforced by the OCC.
Privacy and Information Security
We are subject to many U.S. federal, state and international
laws and regulations governing requirements for maintaining
policies and procedures regarding the disclosure, use and
protection of the non-public confidential information of our
customers and employees. The Gramm-Le ach-Bliley Act
requires us to periodically disclose Bank of America’ s privacy
policies and practices relating to sharing such information and
enables retail customers to opt out of our ability to share
information with unaffiliated third parties, under certain
circumstances. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and other laws
also require us to implement a comprehensive information
security program that includes administrative , technical and
physical safeguards to provide the security and confidentiality of
customer records and information. Security and privacy policies
and procedures for the protection of personal and confidential
information are in effect across all businesses and geographic
locations.
Other laws and regulations, at the international, federal and
state level, impact our ability to share certain information with
affiliates and non-af filiates for marketing and/o r non-marketing
purposes, or contact customers with marke ting offers and
establish certain rights of consumers in connection with their
personal information. For example, Californ ia’s Consumer
Privacy Act (CCP A), which went into effect in January 2020, as
modified by the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), provides
consumers with the right to know what personal data is being
collected, know whether their personal data is sold or disclosed
and to whom and opt out of the sale of their personal data,
among other rights. In addition, in the EU, the General Data
Protection Regulation (GDPR) replaced the Data Protection
Directive and related implementing national laws in its member
states. The CCPA's, CPRA's and GDPR’ s impact on the
Corporation was assessed and addressed through
comprehensive compliance implementation programs. These
existing and evolving legal requirements in the U.S. and abroad,
Bank of America 6
as well as court proceedings and changing guidance from
regulatory bodies with respect to the validity of cross-border data
transfer mechanisms from the EU, continue to lend uncertainty
to privacy compliance globally .
Item 1A. Risk Factors
The discussion below addresses the material factors of which
we are currently aware that could affect our businesses, results
of operations and financial condition. However , other factors not
currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial could
also adversely affect our businesses, results of operations and
financial condition. Therefore, the risk factors below should not
be considered all of the potential risks that we may face. For
more information on how we manage risks, see Managing Risk
in the MD&A  on page 47. For more information about the risks
contained in the Risk Factors section, see Item 1. Business on
page 2, MD&A on page 24 and Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements on page 101.
Coronavirus Disease
The effects of the pandemic have adversely affected, and
are expected to continue to adversely  affect, our
businesses and results of operations, and its duration and
future impacts on the economy and our businesses, results
of operations and financial condition remain uncertain.
The negative economic conditions arising from the pandemic
negatively impacted our financial results during 2020 in various
respects, including contributing to increases in our allowance
and provision for credit losses and noninterest expense. These
negative economic conditions may have a continued adverse
effect on our businesses and results of operations, which could
include: decreased demand for and use of our products and
services; protracted periods of historically low interest rates;
lower fees, including asset management fees; lower sales and
trading revenue due to decreased market liquidity resulting from
heightened volatility; higher levels of uncollectible reversed
charges in our merchant services business; increased
noninterest expense, including operational losses; and
increased credit losses due to our customers' and clients'
inability to fulfill contractual obligations and deterioration in the
financial condition of our consumer and commercial borrowers,
which may vary by region, sector or industry , that may increase
our provision for credit losses and net charge-of fs. Our provision
for credit losses and net charge-of fs may also continue to be
impacted by volatility in the energy and commodity markets.
Additionally , our liquidity and/or regulatory capital could be
adversely impacted by customers’ withdraw al of deposits,
volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets,
volatility in foreign excha nge rates and customer draws on lines
of credit. Continued adverse macroeconomic conditions could
also result in potential downgrades to our credit ratings, negative
impacts to regulatory capital and liquidity and further restrictions
on dividends and/or common stock repurchases.
If we becom e unable to operate our businesses  from remote
locations including, for example, because of an internal or
external failure of our information technology infrastructure, we
experience increased rates of employee illness or unavailability ,
or governmental restrictions are placed on our employees or
operations, this could adversely affect our business continuity
status and result in disru ption to our businesses. Additionally , we
rely on third parties who could experience adverse effects on
their business continuity and business interruptio ns, which could
increase our risks and adversely impact our businesses.
There can be no assurance that current or future
governmental fiscal and monetary relief programs will stimulatethe global economy or avert negative economic or market
conditions. Our participation in such programs could result in
reputational harm and government actions and proceedings, and
has resulted in, and may continue to result in, litigation, including
class actions. Such actions may result in judgments,
settlements, penalties, and fines. Our participation in such
programs has also resulted and may contin ue to result in
operational losses, including from the Paycheck Protection
Program (PPP) and processing unemployment insurance.
We continue to closely monitor the pandemic and related
risks as they evolve globally and in the U.S. The magnitude and
duration of the pandemic  and its future direct and indirect effects
on the global economy and our businesses, results of operations
and financial condition are highly uncertain and depend on
future deve lopments that cannot be predicted, including the
likelihood of further surges of COVID-19 cases and the spread
of more easily communicable variants of COVID-19, the timing
and availab ility of effective medical treatments  and vaccines,
future actions taken by governmental authorities, including
additional stimulus legislation, and/or other third parties in
response to the pandemic. The pandemic may cause prolonged
global or national negative economic conditions or longer lasting
effects on economic conditions than currently exist, which could
have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of
operations and financial condition.
Market
Our business and results of operations may be adversely
affected by the financial markets, fiscal, monetary , and
regulatory policies, and economic conditions generally .
General economic, political, social and health conditions in
the U.S. and in one or more countries abroad affect markets in
the U.S. and abroad and our business. In particular , markets in
the U.S. or abroad may be affected by the level and volatility of
interest rates, availability and market conditions of financing,
unexpected changes in gross domestic product (GDP),
economic growth or its sustainability , inflation, consumer
spending, employment levels, wage stagnation, federal
government shutdowns , developments related to the federal
debt ceiling, energy prices, home prices, bankruptcies, a default
by a significant market participant, fluctua tions or other
significant changes in both debt and equity capital markets and
currencies, liquidity of the global financial marke ts, the growth of
global trade and commerce, trade policies, the availability and
cost of capital and credit, disruption of communication,
transportation or energy infrastructure and investor sentiment
and confide nce. Additio nally, global markets, including energy
and commodity markets, may be adversely affected by the
current or anticipated impact of climate change, extreme
weather events or natural disasters, the emergence of
widespread health emergencies or pandemics, cyber attacks or
campaigns, military conflict, terrorism or other geopolitical
events. Market fluctuations may impact our marg in requirements
and affect our business liquidity . Also, any sudd en or prolonged
market downturn in the U.S. or abroad, as a result of the above
factors or otherwise, could result in a decline in net interest
income and noninterest income and adversely affect our results
of operations and financial condition, including capital and
liquidity levels. For example, the global markets, including the
energy and commodity markets, experienced significant volatility
and disruption as a result of the uncertainty and economic
impact of the pandemic. Further uncertaint y and ongoing
developments in connection with the pandem ic, including its
further spread, changin g consumer and busin ess behaviors,
government restrictions  in an effort to control the virus and
timing and availability of effective medical treatments and
vaccines, could
7 Bank of America
result in further market volatility and disruptions globally and
continue to adversely impact macroeconomic conditions.
Actions taken by the Federal Reserve, including changes in
its target funds rate, balance sheet management, and lending
facilities, and other central banks are beyond our control and
difficult to predict. These  actions can affect interest rates and the
value of financial instruments and other assets and liabilities,
and impact our borrowers. The continued protracted period of
lower interes t rates has resulted in lower revenue through lower
net interest income, which has adversely affected our results of
operations. Additional periods of lower interest rates or a move
to negative interest rates in the U.S., could have a further
adverse impact on our net interest income and results of
operations. Uncertainty or ongoing developmen ts in connection
with the U.K.’s exit from the EU, and the resultin g impact on the
financial markets and regulations in relevant jurisdictions, could
negatively impact our revenues and ongoing operations in
Europe and other jurisdictions.
Changes to existing U.S. laws and regulat ory policies,
including those relate d to financial regul ation, taxation,
international trade, fiscal policy and healthcare , may adversely
impact U.S. or global economic activity and our customers', our
counterparties' and our earnings and operations. For example,
additional fiscal stimulus and rising debt levels, in the U.S. and
abroad, in response to the ongoing pandemic could affect
macroeconomic conditions, market liquidity conditions, and
interest rates. Significant fiscal policy changes and/or initiatives,
including as a result of the change in the U.S. presidential
administration and Congress, may also increase uncertainty
surrounding the formulation and direction of U.S. monetary
policy and volatility of interest rates. Higher U.S. interest rates
relative to other major economies could increase the likelihood
of a more volatile and appreciating U.S. dollar . Changes, or
proposed changes, to certain U.S. trade and international
investment policies, particularly with important trading partners
(including China and the EU) have negatively impacted and may
continue to negatively impact financial markets, disrupt world
trade and commerce and lead to trade retaliation, including
through the use of tariffs, foreign exchange measures or the
large-scale sale of U.S. Treasury Bonds. Further , the use of
tariffs among countries not directly involving the U.S. could
spread and could damage our customers directly and indirectly .
Any of these developments could adversely  affect our
consumer and commercial businesses, our customers, our
securities and derivatives portfolios, including the risk of lower
re-investment rates within those portfolios, our level of charge-
offs and provision for credit losses, the carryi ng value of our
deferred tax assets, our capital levels, our liquidity and our
results of operations. Additionally , the uncertainty related to the
transition from Interbank Offered Rates (IBORs) and other
benchmark rates to alternative reference rates (ARRs) could
negatively impact markets globally and our business, and/or
magnify any negative impact of the above refere nced factors on
our business, customers and results of operations.
Increased market volat ility and adverse changes in financial
or capital market conditions may increase our market risk.
Our liquidity , competitive position, business,  results of
operations and financial condition are affected by market risks
such as changes in interest and currency exchange rates,
fluctuations in equity and futures prices, lower trading volumes
and prices of securitized products, the implied volatility of
interest rates and credit spreads and other economic and
business factors. These market risks may adversely affect,
among other things, the value of our on- and of f-balance sheetsecurities, trading assets and other financial instruments, the
cost of debt capital and our access to credit markets, the value
of assets under management (AUM), fee income relating to
AUM, customer allocation of capital among investment
alternatives, the volume of client activity in our trading
operations, investment banking fees, the general profitability and
risk level of the transa ctions in which we engage and our
competitiveness with respect to deposit pricing. For example,
the value of certain of our assets is sensitive to changes in
market interest rates. If the Federal Reserve or a non-U.S.
central bank  changes or signals a change in monetary policy ,
market interest rates could be affected, which could adversely
impact the value of such assets. Changes to fiscal policy ,
including rapid expansion of U.S. federal deficit spending and
resultant debt issuance, could also affect market interest rates.
In addition, the low interest rate environment and a flat or
inverted yield curve has had and could continue to have a
negative impact on our results of operations, including on future
revenue and earnings growth.
We use various models and strategies to assess  and control
our market risk exposures, but those are subject to inherent
limitations. In times of market stress or other unforeseen
circumstances, previously uncorrelated indicato rs may become
correlated and vice versa. These types of market movements
may limit the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and cause
us to incur significant losses. These changes in correlation can
be exacerba ted where other market participants are using risk or
trading models with assu mptions or algorithms similar to ours. In
these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk
positions due to activity of other market participants or
widespread market dislocations, including circumstances where
asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for
certain assets. To the extent that we own securities that do not
have an established liquid trading market or are otherwise
subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to
reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated
with such positions.
We may incur losses if the value of assets decline,
including due to changes in interest rates and prepayment
speeds.
We have a large portfolio of financial instruments, including
loans and loan commitments, securities financing agreements,
asset-backed secured financings, derivative  assets and
liabilities, debt securities, marketable equity securities and
certain other assets and liabilities that we measure at fair value
that are subject to valuation and impairment assessments. We
determine these values based on applicable accounting
guidance, which for financial instruments measured at fair value,
requires an entity to base fair value on exit price and to
maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of
unobservable inputs in fair value measurements. The fair values
of these financial instruments include adjustments for market
liquidity , credit quality , funding impact on certain derivatives and
other transaction-specific factors, where appropriate.
Gains or losses on these instruments can have a direct
impact on our results of operations, unless we have effectively
hedged our exposures. Increases in interest rates may result in
a decrease in residential mortgage loan originations. In addition,
increases in interest rates may adversely impact the fair value of
debt securities and, accordingly , for debt securities classified as
available for sale, may adversely affect accumulated other
comprehensive income and, thus, capital levels. Decreases in
interest rates may increase prepayment speeds of certain
assets, and therefore may adversely af fect net interest income.
Fair values may be impacted by declining values of the
underlying assets or the prices at which observable market
Bank of America 8
transactions occur and the continued availability of these
transactions or indices. The financial strength of counterparties,
with whom we have economically hedged some of our exposure
to these assets, also will affect the fair value of these assets.
Sudden declines and volatility in the prices of assets may curtail
or eliminate trading activities in these assets, which may make it
difficult to sell, hedge or value these assets. The inability to sell
or effectively  hedge assets reduces our ability to limit losses in
such positions and the difficulty in valuing assets may increase
our risk-weighted assets (RWA), which requires us to maintain
additional capital and increases our funding costs. Values of
AUM also impact revenues in our wealth management and
related advisory busines ses for asset-based management and
performance fees. Declines in values of AUM can result in lower
fees earned for managing such assets.
Liquidity
If we are unable to access the capital markets or continue to
maintain deposits, or our borrowing costs  increase, our
liquidity and competitive position will be negatively
affected.
Liquidity is essential to our businesses. We fund our assets
primarily with globally sourced deposits in our bank entities, as
well as secured and unsecured liabilities transacted in the
capital markets. We rely on certain secured funding sources,
such as repo markets, which are typically short-term and credit-
sensitive in nature. We also engage in asset securitization
transactions, including with the government-sponsored
enterprises (GSEs), to fund consumer lending  activities. Our
liquidity could be adversely affected by any inability to access
the capital markets, illiquidity or volatility in the capital markets,
the decrease in value of eligible collateral or increased collateral
requirements (including as a result of credit concerns for short-
term borrowing), changes to our relationships with our funding
providers based on real or perceived changes in our risk profile,
prolonged federal government shutdowns, or changes in
regulations, guidance or GSE status that impact our funding
avenues or ability to access certain funding sources.
Additionally , our liquidity may be negatively impacted by the
unwillingness or inability of the Federal Reserve  to act as lender
of last resort, unexpected simultaneous draws on lines of credit,
slower customer payment rates, restricted access to the assets
of prime brokerage clients, the withdrawal of or failure to attract
customer deposits or invested funds (which could result from
customer attrition for higher yields, the desire for more
conservative alternatives  or our customers’ increased need for
cash), increased regulatory liquidity , capital and margin
requirements for our U.S. or international banks and their
nonbank subsidiaries, changes in patterns of intraday liquidity
usage resulting from a counterparty or technology failure or
other idiosy ncratic event or failure or default by a significant
market participant or third party (including clearing agents,
custodians or central counterparties (CCPs)). These factors also
have the potential to increase our borrowing costs.
Several of these factors may arise due to circumstances
beyond our control, such as general market volatility , disruption,
shock or stress, the emergence of widespread health
emergencies or pandemics, Federal Reserve policy decisions
(including fluctuations in interest rates or Federal Reserve
balance sheet compo sition), negative views about the
Corporation (including short- and long-term business prospects)
or the financial services  industry generally or due to a specific
news event, changes in the regulatory environment or
governmental fiscal or monetary policies (including as a result of
the change in the U.S. presidential administration and
Congress), actions by credit rating agencies or an operationalproblem that affects third parties or us. The impact of these
events, whether within our control or not, could include an
inability to sell assets or redeem investments, unforeseen
outflows of cash, the need to draw on liquidity facilities, the
reduction of financing balances and the loss of equity secured
funding, debt repurchases to support the secondary market or
meet client requests, the need for additional funding for
commitments and contingencies and unexpected  collateral calls,
among other things, the result of which could be increased
costs, a liquidity shortfall and/or impact on our liquidity coverage
ratio.
Our liquidity and cost of obtaining funding is directly related
to prevailing market conditions, including changes in interest and
currency exchange rates, fluctuations in equity and futures
prices, lower trading volumes and prices of securitized products
and our credit spreads. Credit spreads are the amount in excess
of the interest rate of U.S. Treasury securities, or other
benchmark securities, of a similar maturity that we need to pay
to our funding provider s. Increases in interest rates and our
credit spreads can increase the cost of our funding and result in
mark-to-market or credit valuation adjustment exposures.
Changes in our credit spreads are market-driven and may be
influenced by market perceptions of our creditworthiness.
Changes to interest rates and our credit spreads occur
continuously and may be unpredictable and highly volatile. We
may also experience spread compression as a result of offering
higher than expected deposit rates in order  to attract and
maintain deposits due to increased marketplace rate
competition. Additionall y, concentrations within our funding
profile, such as maturi ties, currencies or counterparties, can
reduce our funding ef ficiency .
Reduction in our credit ratings could significantly limit our
access to funding or the capital markets, increase
borrowing costs or trigger additional collateral or funding
requirements.
Our borrowing costs and ability to raise funds  are directly
impacted by our credit ratings. In addition, credit ratings may be
important to customers or counterparties when we compete in
certain markets and seek to engage in certain transactions,
including OTC derivatives. Credit ratings and outlooks are
opinions expressed by rating agencies on our creditworthiness
and that of our obligations or securities, including long-term
debt, short -term borro wings, preferred stock and asset
securitizations. Our credit ratings are subject to ongoing review
by rating agencies, which consider a number of factors,
including our financial strength, performance,  prospects and
operations and factors not under our contro l, such as the
macroeconomic and geopolitical environment , including the
macroeconomic stress caused by the pandemic.
Rating agencies could make adjustments to our credit ratings
at any time, and there can be no assurance as to when and
whether downgrades will occur . A reduction in certain of our
credit ratings  could result in a wider credit spread and negatively
affect our liquidity , acce ss to credit markets, the related cost of
funds, our businesses and certain trading revenues, particularly
in those businesses where counterparty creditworthiness is
critical. If the short-term credit ratings of our parent company , or
bank or broker-dealer subsidiaries, were downgraded by one or
more levels, we may suffer the potential loss of access to short-
term funding sources such as repo financing, and/or incur
increased cost of funds and increased collatera l requirements.
Under the terms of certain OTC derivative contracts and other
trading agreements, if our or our subsidiaries’ credit ratings are
downgraded, the counterparties may require additional collateral
or terminate these contracts or agreements.
9 Bank of America
While certain potential impacts are contractual and
quantifiable, the full consequences of a credit rating downgrade
to a financia l institution are inherently uncertain, as they depend
upon numerous dynamic, complex and inter-related factors and
assumptions, including whether any downgrade of a firm’s long-
term credit ratings precipitates downgrades to its short-term
credit ratings, and assumptions about the potential behaviors of
various customers, investors and counterparties.
Bank of America Corporation is a holding company , is
dependent on its subsidiaries for liquidity and may be
restricted from transferring funds from subsidiaries.
Bank of America Corporation, as the parent company , is a
separate and distinct legal entity from our bank and nonbank
subsidiaries. We evaluate and manage liquidity on a legal entity
basis. Legal  entity liquidity is an important consideration as there
are legal, regulatory , contractual and other limitations on our
ability to utilize liquidity from one legal entity to satisfy the
liquidity requirements of another , including the parent company ,
which could result in adverse liquidity events. The parent
company depends on dividends, distributions, loans and other
payments from our bank and nonbank subsidiaries to fund
dividend payments on our common stock and preferred stock
and to fund all payments  on our other obligations, including debt
obligations. Any inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or
make payments to us may adversely affect our cash flow and
financial condition.
Many of our subsidiaries, including our bank and broker-
dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend
payments, or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the
flow of funds from those  subsidiaries to the parent company or
other subsid iaries. Our bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries are
subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or transact with
affiliates and to minimum regulatory capital and liquidity
requirements, as well as restrictions on their ability to use funds
deposited with them in bank or brokerage accounts to fund their
businesses. Intercompa ny arrangements we entered into in
connection with our resolution planning submissions could
restrict the amount of funding available to the parent company
from our subsidiaries under certain adverse conditions.
Additional restrictions on related party transactions,
increased capital and liquidity requirements and additional
limitations on the use of funds on deposit in bank or brokerage
accounts, as well as lower earnings, can reduc e the amount of
funds available to meet  the obligations of the parent company
and even require the parent company to provide additional
funding to such subsidiaries. Also, regulatory action that requires
additional liquidity at each of our subsidiaries could impede
access to funds we need to pay our obligations or pay dividends.
In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon
a subsidiary’ s liquidation or reorganization is subject to prior
claims of the subsidiary’ s creditors.
Our liquidity and financial condition, and the ability to pay
dividends to shareholders and to pay obligations could be
materially adversely affected in the event of a resolution.
Bank of America Corporation, our parent holding company , is
required to periodically submit a plan to the FDIC and Federal
Reserve describing its resolution strategy under the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code in the event of material financial distress or
failure. In the current plan, Bank of America Corporation’ s
preferred resolution strategy is a “single point of entry” strategy .
This strategy  provides that only the parent holding company files
for resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and contemplates
providing certain key operating subsidiaries with suf ficient capital
and liquidity  to operate through severe stress and to enable
such subsidiaries to continue operating or be wounddown in a solvent manner following a bankruptcy of the parent
holding company . Bank of America Corporation has entered into
intercompany arrangeme nts resulting in the contribution of most
of its capital  and liquidity to key subsidiaries. Pursuant to these
arrangements, if Bank of America Corporation’ s liquidity
resources deteriorate so severely that resolution becomes
imminent, Bank of America Corporation will no longer be able to
draw liquidity from its key subsidiaries, and will be required to
contribute its remaining financial assets to a wholly-owned
holding company subsidiary , which could materially and
adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the
ability to return capital to shareholders, including through the
payment of dividends and repurchase of the Corporation’ s
common stock, and meet our payment obligations.
If the FDIC and Federal Reserve jointly determine that Bank
of America Corporation’ s resolution plan is not credible, they
could impose more stringent capital, levera ge or liquidity
requirements or restrictions on our growth, activities or
operations. We could also be required to take certain actions
that could impose opera ting costs and could potentially result in
the divestiture or restructuring of businesses and subsidiaries.
Additionally , under the Financial Reform Act, when a G-SIB
such as Bank of America Corporation is in default or danger of
default, the FDIC may be appointed receiver in order to conduct
an orderly liquidation of such institution. In the event of such
appointment, the FDIC could, among other things, invoke the
orderly liquidation authority , instead of the U.S. Bankruptcy
Code, if the Secretary of the Treasury makes certain financial
distress and systemic risk determinations. In 2013, the FDIC
issued a notice describing its preferred “single point of entry”
strategy for resolving a G-SIB. Under this approach, the FDIC
could replac e Bank of America Corporation with a bridge holding
company , which could continue operations and result in an
orderly resolution of the underlying bank, but whose equity
would be held solely for the benefit of our credit ors. The FDIC’ s
“single point of entry” strategy may result in our security holders
suffering greater losses than would have been the case under a
bankruptcy proceeding or a dif ferent resolution strategy .
Credit
Economic or market disruptions and insuffic ient credit loss
reserves may result in a higher provision for credit losses.
A number of our products expose us to credit risk, including
loans, letters of credit, derivatives, debt securities, trading
account assets and assets held-for-sale. Dete rioration in the
financial condition of our consumer and commercial borrowers,
counterparties or underlying collateral could adversely affect our
financial condition and results of operations.
Our credit portfolios may be impacted by global and U.S.
macroeconomic and market conditions, events and disruptions,
including sustained weakness in GDP, consumer-spending
declines, property value declines or asset-price corrections,
increasing consumer and corporate leverage , increases in
corporate bond spreads, rising or elevated unemployment
levels, fluctuations in foreign exchange or interest rates,
widespread health emergencies or pandemics, extreme weather
events and the impacts  of climate change and domestic and
global efforts to transition to a low-carbon economy . Significant
economic or market stresses and disruptions typically have a
negative impact on the business environmen t and financial
markets. Property value declines or asset-price corrections
could increase the risk of borrowers or counterparties defaulting
or becoming delinquent in their obligations to us, which could
increase credit losses. Simultaneous drawdow ns on lines of
credit and/or an increase in a borrower ’s leverage in a
Bank of America 10
weakening economic environment could result in deterioration in
our credit portfolio, should borrowers be unable to fulfill
competing financial obligations. Credit portfolio deterioration
could also be magnified by lending to leveraged borrowers,
elevated asset prices or declining property or collateral values
unrelated to macroecon omic stress. Increased delinquency and
default rates could adversely affect our consumer credit card,
home equity and residential mortgage portfolios through
increased charge-of fs and provision for credit losses.
Beginning in the first quarter of 2020, the pandemic resulted
in changes to consumer and business behaviors and restrictions
on economic activity , which have negatively impacted the global
economy and could continue to negatively impact our consumer
and commer cial credit portfolios. Accordingly , we increased our
allowance for credit losses as a result of the expected
macroeconomic impact of COVID-19, which has adversely
affected our results of operations. Although the economy ,
including GDP, and unemployment have improved since the first
half of 2020, certain sectors remain significantly impacted (e.g.,
hospitality , entertainment and travel). As COVID-19 cases have
surged in the fourth quarter of 2020 and early 2021, compared
to earlier levels, and restrictions on economic activity have been
reintroduced in certain geographies, there remains significant
uncertainty on what the ultimate impact the pandemic will have
on the economy and our allowance for credit losses.
We establish an allowance for credit losses, which includes
the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for
unfunded lending comm itments, based on management's best
estimate of lifetime expected credit losses inherent in the
Corporation's relevant financial assets. The process to
determine the allowance requires us to make difficult and
complex judgments, including forecasting how borrowers will
perform in changing and unprecedented economic conditions
and predicting developments in public health and fiscal policy
related to the pandem ic. The ability of our borrowers or
counterparties to repay their obligations will likely be impacted
by changes in future economic conditions, which in turn could
impact the accuracy of our loss forecasts and allowance
estimates. There is also the possibility that we have failed or will
fail to accurately identify the appropriate economic indicators or
accurately estimate their impacts to our borrowers, which
similarly could impact the accuracy of our loss forecasts and
allowance estimates.
We may suffer unexpected losses if the models and
assumptions we use to establish reserves or the judgments we
make in extending credit to our borrowers or counterparties,
which are more sensitiv e due to the uncertainty regarding the
magnitude and duration of the pandemic and related
macroeconomic impact,  prove inaccurate in predicting future
events. In addition, changes to external factors can negatively
impact our recognition of credit losses in our portfolios and
allowance for credit losses.
As of January 1, 2020, we implemented a new accounting
standard to estimate our allowance for credit losses. Although
we believe that the allowance for credit losses is in compliance
with the new accounting  standard, there is no guarantee that it
will be sufficient to address credit losses, particularly if the
economic outlook deteriorates significantly . In such an event, we
may increase our allowance which would reduce our earnings.
Additionally , to the exten t that economic conditions worsen as a
result of COVID-19 or otherwise, impacting our consumer and
commercial borrowers, counterparties or underlying collateral,
and credit losses are worse than expected, we may further
increase our provision for credit losses, whichcould have a further adverse effect on our results of operations
and could negatively impact our financial condition.
Our concentrations  of credit risk could adversely affect our
credit losses, results of operations and financial condition.
In the ordina ry course of our business, we may be subject to
concentrations of credit risk because of a common characteristic
or common sensitivity to economic, financial, public health or
business developments. For example, concentrations in credit
risk may result in a partic ular industry , geography , product, asset
class, counterparty , individual exposure or within any pool of
exposures with a common risk characteristic. A deterioration in
the financial condition or prospects of a particular industry ,
geographic location, product or asset class, or a failure or
downgrade of, or default by, any particular entity or group of
entities could negatively affect our businesses, and it is possible
our limits and credit monitoring exposure controls will not
function as anticipated.
While our activities expose us to many different industries
and counterparties, we routinely execute a high volume of
transactions with counterparties in the financial services
industry , including broker-dealers, commercial banks,
investment banks, insurers, mutual funds and hedge funds,
central counterparties and other institutional clients, resulting in
significant credit concentration with respect to this industry .
Financial services institutions and other counterp arties are inter-
related because of trading, funding, clearing or other
relationships. As a result, defaults by one or more
counterparties, or market uncertainty about the financial stability
of one or more financial services institutions, or the financial
services industry generally , could lead to mark et-wide liquidity
disruptions, losses and defaults.
Many of these transacti ons expose us to credit risk and, in
some cases, disputes and litigation in the even t of default of a
counterparty . In addition, our credit risk may be heightened by
market risk when the collateral held by us cannot be liquidated
or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount
of the loan or derivatives exposure due to us, which may occur
as a result of fraud or other events that impact the value of the
collateral. Further, dispu tes with obligors as to the valuation of
collateral could increase in times of significant market stress,
volatility or illiquidity , and we could suffer losses during such
periods if we are unable  to realize the fair value  of the collateral
or manage declines in the value of collateral.
Our commercial portfolios include exposures to certain
industries, including asset managers and funds, real estate,
capital good s and finance companies. Economic weaknesses,
adverse business condi tions, market disruptions, rising interest
or capitaliza tion rates, the collapse of speculative bubbles,
greater volatility in areas  where we have concentrated credit risk
or deterioration in real estate values or househo ld incomes may
cause us to experience  a decrease in cash flow and higher
credit losses in either our consumer or commercial portfolios or
cause us to write down the value of certain assets. Additionally ,
we could experience continued and long-term negative impact to
our commercial credit exposure and an increase in credit losses
within those industries that continue to be disproportionately
impacted by COVID-19 or are permanently impacted by a
change in consumer preferences resulting from COVID-19
(including hospitality , entertainment and travel).
Furthermore, we have concentrations of credit risk with
respect to our consumer real estate, auto, consumer credit card
and commercial real estate portfolios, which represent a
significant percentage of our overall credit portfolio. Decreases
in home price valuations  or commercial real estate valuations in
certain markets where we have large concentrations, as well as
11 Bank of America
more broad ly within the U.S. or globally , could result in
increased defaults, delinquencies or credit loss. In particular , the
impact of climate change, such as rising average global
temperatures and rising sea levels, and the increasing frequency
and severity of extreme weather events and natural disasters
such as droughts, floods, wildfires and hurricanes could
negatively impact collateral, the valuations of home prices or
commercial real estate or our customers’ ability and/or
willingness to pay outstanding loans. This could also cause
insurability risk and/or increased insurance costs to customers.
We also enter into transactions with sovereign nations, U.S.
states and municipalities. Unfavorable econo mic or political
conditions, disruptions to capital markets, curren cy fluctuations,
changes in oil prices, social instability and changes in
government or monetary policies could adver sely impact the
operating budgets or credit ratings of these government entities
and expose us to credit risk.
Liquidity disruptions in the financial markets may result in our
inability to sell, syndicat e or realize the value of our positions,
leading to increased concentrations, which could increase the
credit and market risk associated with our posit ions, as well as
increase our R WA.
We may be adversely affected if the U.S. housing market
weakens or home prices decline.
U.S. home prices continued to generally remain stable or
increase in 2020, supported by single-family housing demand
and low interest rates. However , changes in business and
household behaviors and restrictions on activity in response to
the pandemic have had a negative impact on some property
markets, particularly in high-density urban areas. We remain
conscious of geographic markets where housi ng price growth
has slowed or decreas ed, or is vulnerable to lasting shifts in
demand due to the pandemic, as further declines in future
periods may negatively impact the demand for many of our
products. Additionally , our mortgage loan production volume is
generally influenced by the rate of growth in residential
mortgage debt outstanding and the size of the residential
mortgage market, both of which may be adver sely affected by
rising interest rates. Conditions in the U.S. housing market
during the 2008 financia l crisis resulted in both significant write-
downs of asset values in several asset classes, notably
mortgage-backed securi ties, and exposure to monolines. If the
U.S. housing market were to weaken, the value of real estate
could declin e, which could result in increased credit losses and
delinquent servicing expenses and negativ ely affect our
representations and warranties exposures, and adversely affect
our financial condition and results of operations.
Our derivat ives busine sses may expose us to unexpected
risks and potential losses.
We are party to a large  number of derivatives transactions
that may expose us to unexpected market, credit and
operational risks that could cause us to suffer unexpected
losses. Severe declines in asset values, unanticipated credit
events or unforeseen circumstances that may cause previously
uncorrelated factors to become correlated and vice versa, may
create losses resulting from risks not appropriately taken into
account or anticipated in the development, structuring or pricing
of a derivative instrument. Certain OTC derivative contracts and
other trading agreements provide that upon the occurrence of
certain specified events, such as a change in the credit rating of
the Corporation or one or more of its affiliates, we may be
required to provide additional collateral or take other remedial
actions and could experience increased difficulty obtaining
funding or hedging risks. In some cases our counterparties may
have the right to terminate or otherwise diminish our rights under
these contracts or agreements.We are also a member of various central counterparties
(CCPs), in part due to regulatory requirements for mandatory
clearing of derivative transactions, which potentially increases
our credit risk exposures  to CCPs. In the event that one or more
members of the CCP defaults on its obligations, we may be
required to pay a portion  of any losses incurred by the CCP as a
result of that default. A CCP may modify , in its discretion, the
margin we are required to post, which could mean unexpected
and increased exposure to the CCP. As a clearing member , we
are exposed  to the risk of non-performance by our clients for
which we clear transac tions, which may not be covered by
available collateral. Additionally , default by a significant market
participant may result in further risk and potential losses.
Geopolitical
We are subject to numerous political, economic, market,
reputational, operation al, legal, regulatory and other risks in
the jurisdictions in which we operate.
We do business throughout the world, including in emerging
markets. Economic or geopolitical stress in one or more
countries could have a negative impact regionally or globally ,
resulting in, among other things, market volatility , reduced
market value and economic output. Our businesses and
revenues derived from non-U.S. jurisdictions are subject to risk
of loss from currency fluctuations, financial, social or judicial
instability , changes in government leadership, including as a
result of electoral outcomes or otherwise, changes in
governmental policies or policies of central banks, expropriation,
nationalization and/or confiscation of assets, price controls, high
inflation, natural disasters, the emergence of widespread health
emergencies or pandemics, capital controls, currency
redenomination risk, exchange controls, unfavorable political
and diplomatic developments, oil price fluctuatio ns and changes
in legislation. These risks are especially elevated in emerging
markets. Additionally , protectionist trade policies and continued
trade tensions between the U.S. and important trading partners,
particularly China and the EU, including the risk that tariffs
continue to rise and other restrictive actions on cross-border
trade, investment, and transfer of information technology are
taken that weigh heavily on regional trade volumes and
domestic demand through falling business sentiment and lower
consumer confidence, could adversely affect our businesses
and revenues, as well as our customers and counterparties.
Elevated tensions betw een the U.S. and China also raise the
risk that current or future U.S. sanctions against individuals or
export controls targeting Chinese firms could prompt retaliatory
responses, potentially impacting our operations and revenue.
Additionally , the realization of any significant geopolitical
events, negative market conditions and/or change in market
dynamics as a result of the U.K.’ s exit from the EU could
adversely impact our businesses. The short-  and long-term
impact of the U.K.’ s exit from the EU on Europ ean and global
macroeconomic conditio ns, our business operat ions and results
of operations remain unknown.
A number of non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we do business
have been or may be negatively impacted by slowing growth or
recessionary conditions, market volatility and/or political or civil
unrest. The ongoing pandemic has had a severe negative
impact on global GDP, and the global economic environment
remains challenging even as output has begun to improve.
Economic weakness may prove persistent in many countries
and regions, including Europe, Japan, and numerous emerging
markets. Potential risks of default on or devaluation of sovereign
debt in some non-U.S. jurisdictions could expose us to
substantial losses. As a result of the pandemic and fiscal policy
responses
Bank of America 12
to it, government debt levels have increased significantly , raising
the risk of volatility , significant valuation change s, or default in
markets for sovereign debt. Risks in one nation can limit our
opportunities for portfolio growth and negati vely affect our
operations in other nations, including our U.S. operations.
Market and economic disruptions of all types may affect
consumer confidence levels and spending, corpo rate investment
and job creation, bankruptcy rates, levels of incurrence and
default on consumer and corporate debt, economic growth rates
and asset values, among other factors. Any such unfavorable
conditions or developments could adversely impact us.
We also invest or trade in the securities of corporations and
governments located in non-U.S. jurisdictions, including
emerging markets. Revenues from the trading of non-U.S.
securities may be subje ct to negative fluctuations as a result of
the above factors. Furthermore, the impact of these fluctuations
could be magnified because non-U.S. trading markets,
particularly in emerging markets, are generally smaller , less
liquid and more volatile than U.S. trading markets.
Our non-U.S. businesses are also subject to extensive
regulation by governments, securities exchanges and regulators,
central banks and other regulatory bodies. In many countries,
the laws and regulations applicable to the financ ial services and
securities industries are uncertain and evolving , and it may be
difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws
in every market or manage our relationships with multiple
regulators in various jurisdictions. Our potential inability to
remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market and
manage our relationships with regulators could result in
increased expenses and changes to our organiz ational structure
and adversely affect our businesses and results of operations in
that market, as well as our reputation in general.
In connection with the U.K.’ s exit from the EU, we are now
subject to different laws, regulations and regulatory authorities
and increas ed organiza tional and operational complexity . We
may incur additional costs and/or experienc e negative tax
consequences as a result of operating our principal EU banking
and broker-dealer operations outside of the U.K., which could
adversely impact our EU business, results of operations and
operational model. Further , changes to the legal and regulatory
framework under which our subsidiaries provid e products and
services in the U.K. and in the EU may result in additional
compliance costs and have negative tax consequences or an
adverse impact on our results of operations.
In addition to non-U.S. legislation, our international
operations are also subject to U.S. legal requirements, which
subjects us to operational and compliance costs and risks. For
example, our operations are subject to U.S. and non-U.S. laws
and regulations relating to bribery and corrupt ion, anti-money
laundering, and economic sanctions, which can vary by
jurisdiction. The increasing speed and novel ways in which funds
circulate could make it more challenging to track the movement
of funds and heightens financial crimes risk. Our ability to
comply with these legal requirements depends on our ability to
continually improve surveillance, detection and reporting and
analytic capabilities.
In the U.S., debt ceiling  and budget deficit concerns, which
have increased the poss ibility of U.S. governmen t defaults on its
debt and/or downgrades to its credit ratings, and prolonged
government shutdowns could negatively impact the global
economy and banking system and adversely affect our financial
condition, including our liquidity . Additionally , changes in fiscal,
monetary or regulatory policy, including as a result of the change
in the U.S. presidential administration and Congress, could
increase our compliance costs and adversely af fect ourbusiness operations, organizational structure and results of
operations. We are also subject to geopolitical risks, including
economic sanctions, acts or threats of international or domestic
terrorism, actions taken by the U.S. or other governments in
response thereto, state- sponsored cyber attacks or campaigns,
civil unrest and/or military conflicts, which could adversely affect
business and economic conditions abroad and in the U.S.
Business Operations
A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems
or infrastructure or business continuity plans, or those of
third parties or the financial services industry , could disrupt
our critical business operations and customer services,
result in regulatory , market, privacy , liquidity and
operational risk exposures, and adversely impact our
results of operations and financial conditio n, and cause
legal or reputational harm.
The potential for operational risk exposure exists throughout
our organization and as a result of our interactions with, and
reliance on, third parties (including their downstream service
providers) and the financial services industry infrastructure. Our
operational and security systems infrastructure, including our
computer systems, emerging technologies, data management
and internal  processes, as well as those of third parties, are
integral to our performance. We also rely on our employees and
third parties (including downstream service providers) in our
day-to-day and ongoing operations, who may, as a result of
human error, misconduct (including fraud ulent activity),
malfeasance or a failure or breach of systems or infrastructure
cause disruptions to our organization and expose us to
operational and regulatory risk.
Additionally , our financial, accounting, data processing and
transmission, storage, backup or other opera ting or security
systems and infrastructure, or those of third parties with whom
we interact or upon whom we rely may fail to operate properly or
become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors
including events that are wholly or partially beyond our or such
third party’ s control, which could adversely affect our ability to
process transactions or provide services. We could also
experience prolonged computer and network outages resulting
in disruptions to our critical business operations and customer
services, including abuse or failure of our electr onic trading and
algorithmic platforms. We may experience sudd en increases in
customer transaction volume or electrical, telecommunications
or other major physical infrastructure outages, newly identified
vulnerabilities in key hardware or software, failure of aging
infrastructure and technology project implementation challenges,
which could result in prolonged operational outages. Climate
change is increasing the frequency and severity of natural
disasters, such as earthquakes, wildfires, tornadoes, hurricanes
and floods, which could result in increased exposure to
operational risks, including outages. Additionally , events arising
from local or larger scale political or social matters, including civil
unrest and terrorist acts, could result in operational disruptions
and prolonged operational outages.
Additionally , the Corporation and the third partie s on which it
relies have been and will likely continue to be subject to
additional operational risks while operating in a work-from-home
posture (which places greater reliance on remote access tools
and technology and employees’ personal systems), while
executing business continuity plans due to COVID-19. We are
increasingly dependent upon our information technology
infrastructure to operate our businesses remotely due to our
work-from-home posture and evolving customer preferences,
including increased reliance on digital banking and other digital
13 Bank of America
services provided by our businesses. Effective management of
our work-from-home posture depends on the security , reliability
and adequa cy of such systems. We are also at greater risk of
business disruptions due to illness and unavailability .
Regardless of the measures we have taken to implement
training, procedures, backup systems and other safeguards to
support our operations and bolster our operat ional resilience,
our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by any
significant disruptions to us or to third parties  (including their
downstream service providers) with whom we interact or upon
whom we rely, including systemic cyber events that result in
system outages and unavailability of part or all of the financial
services industry infrastr ucture. Our ability to implement backup
systems and other safeguards with respec t to third-party
systems and the financial services industry infrastructure is more
limited than with respect to our own systems.
Furthermore, to the extent that backup systems are available
and utilized , they may not process data as quickly as our
primary systems and some data might not have been backed
up. W e regularly update the systems on which we rely to support
our operatio ns and growth and to remain compliant with all
applicable laws, rules and regulations globally . This updating
entails significant costs and creates risks associated with
implementing new systems and integrating them with existing
ones, including business interruptions. A failure or breach of our
operational or security systems or infrastructure or business
continuity plans resulting in disruption to our critical business
operations and customer services could expose us to regulatory ,
market, privacy and liquidity risk, and adversely impact our
results of operations and financial condition, as well as cause
legal or reputational harm.
A cyber attack, information or security breach, or a
technology failure of ours or of a third  party could
adversely affect our ability to conduct our business,
manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses,
result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or
proprietary information, and/or fraudulent  activity , and
increase our costs to maintain and update our operational
and security systems and infrastructure.
Our business is highly dependent on the security , controls
and efficacy of our infrastructure, compu ter and data
management systems, as well as those of our customers,
suppliers, counterparties and other third parties  (including their
downstream service providers) the financial services industry
and financial data aggre gators, with whom we interact, on whom
we rely or who have access to our custome rs' personal or
account information. Our business relies on effective access
management and the secure collection, processing,
transmission, storage and retrieval of confidential, proprietary ,
personal and other information in our computer and data
management systems and networks, and in the computer and
data management systems and networks of third parties. In
addition, to access our network, products and services, our
employees, customers, suppliers, counterparties and other third
parties incre asingly use personal mobile devices or computing
devices that are outside of our network and control
environments and are subject to their own cybersecurity risks.
We, our employees and customers, regulators and other
third parties (including contractors and vendors) are regularly the
target of cyber attacks and are likely to continue to be the target
of cyber attacks. These cyber attacks are pervasive,
sophisticated, evolving, difficult to prevent and include computer
viruses, malicious or destructive code (such as ransomware),
social engineering (including phishing, vishing and smithing),
denial of service or information or other securit y breach tactics
that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering,monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction or theft of confidential,
proprietary and other information, including intellectual property ,
of ours, our employees, our customers or of third parties. These
cyber attack s could also result in damages to systems, financial
risk or otherwise materia l disruption to our or our customers’ or
other third parties’ network access or business operations, both
domestically and internationally .
Our cybersecurity risk and exposure remains heightened
because of, among other things, the evolving nature and
pervasiveness of cyber threats, our prominent size and scale,
our geographic footprint and international presence and our role
in the financial services industry and the broader economy .
Additionally , our risk and exposure to cyber attac ks and security
breaches is magnified due to our work-from-home posture which
places greater reliance on remote access tools and technology ,
resulting in a larger number of access points to our networks
that must be secured. This increased risk of unauthorized
access to our networks results in greater amoun ts of information
being available for access from employees’ personal devices
over which we do not have the same controls as we do in a non-
work-from-home posture . Additionally , our customers’ increasing
reliance on digital banking and other digital services provided by
our business es in response to COVID-19, has resulted in more
demand on our information technology infrastructure and
security tools and processes.
The financial services industry is particularly at risk because
of the proliferation of new and emerging technologies, including
third-party financial data aggregators, and the use of the internet
and telecommunication s technologies to conduct financial
transactions. Additiona lly, our use of automation, artificial
intelligence (AI) and robotics, increased use of internet and
mobile banking products, including mobile payment and other
web- and cloud-based products and applications and plans to
use or devel op additional remote connectivity solutions increase
our cybersecurity risks and exposure.
Additionally , we have exposure to cyber threats as a result of
our continuous transmission of sensitive information to, and
storage of such information by, third parties, including our
vendors and regulators, the outsourcing of some of our business
operations, and system and customer accou nt updates and
conversions. Cybersecurity risks have also significantly
increased in recent years in part due to the increasingly
sophisticated activities of organized crime groups, hackers,
terrorist organizations,  extremist parties, hostile foreign
governments and state-sponsored actors, in some instances
acting to promote politic al ends. We could also be the target of
disgruntled employees or vendors, activists and other parties,
including those involved in corporate espionage.
Cyber threats and the techniques used in cyber attacks
change rapidly and frequently . Despite subst antial efforts to
protect the integrity and resilience of our systems  and implement
controls, processes, policies and other protective measures, we
may not be able to anticipate cyber attacks or information or
security breaches and implement effective preventive or
defensive measures to address or mitigate such attacks or
breaches. Even the most advanced internal control environment
is vulnerable to compromise. Internal access management
failures could result in the compromise or unauthorized
exposure of confidential data.
Cyber attacks or security breaches could persist for an
extended period of time before being detected. It could take
considerable additional time for us to determine the scope,
extent, amount, and type of information compromised, at which
time the impact on the Corporation and measures to recover and
restore to a business-as-usual state may be dif ficult to
Bank of America 14
assess. As cyber threats  continue to evolve, we may be required
to expend significant additional resources to modify or enhance
our protective measures, investigate and remediate any
information security vulnerabilities or incidents and develop our
capabilities to respond and recover . As a result, increasing
resources to develop and enhance our controls, processes and
practices designed to protect our systems, workstations,
intellectual property and proprietary information, software, data
and network s from attack, damage or unaut horized access,
remains a critical priority .
We also face indirect technology , cybersecurity and
operational risks relating to the customers, clients and other third
parties (including their downstream service providers) and the
financial services industry , with whom we do business, upon
whom we rely to facilitate or enable our business activities or
upon whom our customers rely. Such third parties also include
financial counterparties, financial data aggregators, financial
intermediaries, such as clearing agents, exchanges and clearing
houses, vendors, regulators, providers of critical infrastructure,
such as internet access  and electrical power , and retailers for
whom we process transactions. As a result of increasing
consolidation, interdepe ndence and complexity of financial
entities and technology  systems, a technology failure, cyber
attack or other information or security breach that significantly
degrades, deletes or compromises the systems or data of one or
more financial entities or third parties (or their downstream
service providers) could have a material impact on
counterparties or other market participants, including us.
Similarly , any failure, cyber attack or other information or
security breach that significantly degrade s, deletes or
compromises our systems or data could adversely impact third
parties, counterparties and the financial services industry
infrastructure, which in turn could harm our reputation and
damage our business. This consolidation, interconnectivity and
complexity increases the risk of operational failure, on both
individual and industry-wide bases, as disparate  systems need
to be integrated, often on an accelerated basis. Any technology
failure, cyber attack or other information or security breach,
termination or constraint of any third party (including their
downstream service providers) the financial services industry
infrastructure or financial data aggregators, could, among other
things, adversely affect our ability to cond uct day-to-day
business activities, effect transactions, servi ce our clients,
manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses, result in
the misappropriation or destruction of the perso nal, proprietary
or confidential information of our employees, customers,
suppliers, counterparties and other third parties or result in
fraudulent or unauthorized transactions. Further , any such event
may not be disclosed to us in a timely manner .
Although to date we have not experienced any material
losses or other material consequences relating to technology
failure, cyber attacks or other information or security breaches,
whether directed at us or third parties, there can be no
assurance that our controls and procedures in place to monitor
and mitigate  the risks of cyber threats will be sufficient and that
we will not suffer material losses or consequences in the future.
Cyber attacks or other information or security breaches, whether
directed at us or third parties, may result in significant lost
revenue, give rise to losses and claims brought by third parties,
government penalties and other negative consequences.
Furthermore, the public perception that a cybe r attack on our
systems has been successful, whether or not this perception is
correct, may damage our reputation with customers and third
parties with whom we do business. Although we maintain cyber
insurance, there can be no assurance that liabilities or losseswe may incur will be covered under such policies or that the
amount of insurance will be adequate.
Also, successful penetration or circumvention  of system
security could result in negative consequences, including loss of
customers and business opportunities, the withdrawal of
customer deposits, prolonged computer and network outages
resulting in disruptions to our critical business operations and
customer services, misappropriation or destruction of our
intellectual property , proprietary information or confidential
information and/or the confidential, proprieta ry or personal
information of certain parties, such as our employees,
customers, suppliers, counterparties and other third parties, or
damage to their compu ters or systems. This could result in a
violation of applicable privacy and other laws in the U.S. and
abroad, litigation exposure, regulatory fines, penalties or
intervention, loss of confidence in our security measures,
reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensatory
costs, additional compliance costs, and our internal controls or
disclosure controls being rendered ineffective. The occurrence
of any of these events could adversely impact our results of
operations, liquidity and financial condition.
Failure to satisfy our obligations as servicer for residential
mortgage securitizations, loans owned by other entities and
other losses we could incur as servicer , could adversely
impact our reputation, servicing costs or results of
operations.
We and our legacy companies service mortgage loans on
behalf of third-party securitization vehicles and other investors. If
we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer or
master servicer , we may be subject to termination if the breach
is not cured within a specified period of time following notice,
which could cause us to lose servicing income. In addition, we
may have liability for any failure by us, as a servicer or master
servicer , for any act or omission on our part that involves willful
misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard
of our duties. If any such breach was found to have occurred, it
may harm our reputation, increase our servicing costs, result in
litigation or regulatory action or adversely impact our results of
operations. Additionally , with respect to foreclosures, we may
incur costs or losses due to irregularities in the underlying
documentation, or if the validity of a foreclosure action is
challenged by a borrow er or overturned by a court because of
errors or deficiencies in the foreclosure proces s. We may also
incur costs or losses relating to delays or alleged deficiencies in
processing documents necessary to comply with state law
governing foreclosure.
Changes in the structure of and relationship among the
GSEs could adversely impact our business.
During 2020 , we sold approximately $3.6 billion of loans to
GSEs, primarily Freddie Mac (FHLMC). FHLMC and Fannie
Mae (FNMA) are currently in conservatorship with their primary
regulator , the Federal Housing Finance Agency  (FHF A) acting
as conservator . In September 2019, the Treasury Department
published a proposal to recapitalize FHLMC and FNMA and
remove them  from conservatorship as well as reduce their role
in the marketplace. Consistent with this proposal, in January
2021, the Treasury Depa rtment further amended the agreement
that governs the conserv atorship of FHLMC and FNMA to allow
them to retain their earnings until they reach certain previously
determined capital requirements, among other  policy actions,
potentially putting them on a long-term path to emergence from
conservatorship. However , we cannot predict the future
prospects of the GSEs, timing of the recapitalization or release
from conservatorship, or content of legislative or rulemaking
proposals regarding the future status of the GSE s in the housing
market. Additionally , if the GSEs were to take a reduced role in
15 Bank of America
the marketplace, including by limiting the mortgage products
they offer, we could be required to seek alternative funding
sources, retain additional loans on our balance sheet, secure
funding through the Federal Home Loan Bank system, or
securitize the loans through Private Label Securitization.
Accordingly , uncertainty regarding their future and the mortgage-
backed securities they guarantee continues to exist for the
foreseeable future.
Any of these developments could adversely affect the value
of our securities portfolios, capital levels, liquidity and results of
operations.
Our risk management framework may not be effective in
mitigating risk and reducing the potential for losses.
Our risk management framework is designed to minimize risk
and loss to us. We seek  to effectively and consistently identify ,
measure, monitor , report and control the types of risk to which
we are subject, including strategic, credit, market, liquidity ,
compliance, operational and reputational risks. While we employ
a broad and diversified set of controls and risk mitigation
techniques, including modeling and forecasting, hedging
strategies and techniques that seek to balance our ability to
profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential
losses, our ability to control and mitigate risks that result in
losses is inherently limited by our ability to identify all risks,
including emerging and unknown risks, anticipate the timing of
risks, apply  effective hedging strategies, make correct
assumptions, manage and aggregate data correctly and
efficiently , and develop risk management models to assess and
control risk.
Our ability to manage risk is dependent on our ability to
consistently execute all elements of our risk management
program and develop and maintain a culture of managing risk
well throughout the Corporation and manage risks associated
with third parties (including their downstream service providers)
and vendors, to enable effective risk management and ensure
that risks are appropriately considered, evaluated and
responded to in a timely manner . Uncertain economic
conditions, heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny of and
change within the financial services industry , the pace of
technological changes, accounting and market developments,
the failure of employees  to comply with policies, values and our
risk framework and the overall complexity of our operations,
among other developments, may result in a heightened level of
risk for us. We have experienced increased operational,
reputational and compliance risk as a result of the need to
rapidly implement multiple and varying pandemic relief
programs, including consumer and commercial assistance
programs and the PPP, coupled with the concur rent transition of
the Corporation’ s workforce to a work-from-home posture.
Accordingly , we could suffer losses as a result of our failure to
manage evolving risks or properly anticipate, manage, control or
mitigate risks.
Regulatory , Compliance and Legal
We are subject to comprehensive government legislation
and regulations and certain settlements, orders and
agreements with government authorities from time to time.
We are subject to comprehensive regulation under federal
and state laws in the U.S. and the laws of the various
jurisdictions in which we operate, including increasing and
complex economic sanctions regimes. These laws and
regulations significantly affect and have the potential to restrict
the scope of our existing businesses, limit our ability to pursue
certain business opportunities, including the products andservices we offer, reduce certain fees and rates or make our
products and services more expensive for our clients.
We continue to make adjustments to our business and
operations, legal entity structure and capita l and liquidity
management policies, procedures and controls  to comply with
currently effective laws and regulations, as well as final
rulemaking, guidance and interpretation by regulatory
authorities, including the Department of Treasury , Federal
Reserve, OCC, CFPB,  Financial Stability Oversight Council,
FDIC, Depa rtment of Labor , SEC and CFTC in the U.S. and
foreign regulators and other government authori ties. Further , we
could beco me subject to future legislation and regulatory
requirements beyond those currently propose d, adopted or
contemplated in the U.S. or abroad, including policies and
rulemaking related to the Financial Reform Act, the pandemic
and climate change. The cumulative ef fect of all of the legislation
and regulati ons on our business, operations and profitability
remains uncertain. This uncertainty necessita tes that in our
business planning we make certain assumptions with respect to
the scope and requirements of prospective and proposed rules.
If these assumptions prove incorrect, we could be subject to
increased regulatory and compliance risks and costs as well as
potential reputational harm. In addition, U.S. and international
regulatory initiatives may overlap, and non-U.S. regulations and
initiatives may be incon sistent or may conflict with current or
proposed U.S. regulations, which could lead to compliance risks
and increased costs.
Our regulators’ prudential and supervisory authority gives
them broad power and discretion to direct our actions, and they
have assumed an active oversight, inspection and investigatory
role across the financia l services industry . However, regulatory
focus is not limited to laws and regulations applicable to the
financial services industry , but extends to other significant laws
and regulati ons that apply across industries and jurisdictions,
including those related to data management and privacy , anti-
money laundering, anti-corruption and economic sanctions.
We are also subject to laws, rules and regulations in the U.S.
and abroad , including GDPR, CCPA and CPRA, regarding
compliance with our privacy policies and the disclosure,
collection, use, sharing and safeguarding of personal identifiable
information of certain parties, such as our employees,
customers, suppliers, counterparties and other third parties, the
violation of which could result in litigation, regulatory fines and
enforcement actions. Additionally , we will likely be subject to
new and evolving data privacy laws in the U.S. and abroad,
which could result in additional costs of compliance, litigation,
regulatory fines and enforcement actions. In particular , there is
increased complexity and uncertainty , including potential
suspension or prohibition, regarding the standards used by the
Corporation for cross-border flows and transfers of personal
data from the European  Economic Area (EEA) to the U.S. and
other jurisdictions outside of the EEA resulting from a decision of
the Court of Justice of the EU and guidance from the European
Data Protection Board. Additionally , the European Commission
has proposed new standards of personal data transfer . If our
personal data transfers are suspended or prohibited or we are
required to implement new standards, this could result in
operational disruptions to our businesses, additional costs,
increased enforcement activity , new contract negotiations with
third parties , and/or modification of our cross-border data
management.
As part of their enforcement authority , our regulators and
other government authorities have the authority to, among other
things, assess significant civil or criminal monetary penalties or
restitution and issue cease and desist or removal orders and
Bank of America 16
initiate injunctive actions. The amounts paid by us and other
financial institutions to settle proceedings or investigations have,
in some instances, been  substantial and may increase. In some
cases, governmental authorities have required criminal pleas or
other extraordinary terms as part of such resolutions, which
could have significant consequences, includi ng reputational
harm, loss of customers, restrictions on the ability to access
capital markets, and the inability to operate certain businesses
or offer certain products for a period of time.
The Corporation and the conduct of its employees and
representatives are subject to regulatory scrutiny across
jurisdictions. The complexity of the federal and state regulatory
and enforce ment regimes in the U.S., coupled with the global
scope of our operations and the regulatory environment
worldwide also means that a single event or practice or a series
of related events or practices may give rise to a significant
number of overlapping investigations and regulatory
proceedings, either by multiple federal and state agencies in the
U.S. or by multiple regulators and other governm ental entities in
different jurisdictions. Additionally , actions by other members of
the financial services industry related to business activities in
which we participate may result in investigations by regulators or
other government authorities. Responding to inquiries,
investigations, lawsuits and proceedings is time-consuming and
expensive and can divert senior management attention from our
business. The outcome of such proceedings, which may last a
number of years, may be dif ficult to predict or estimate.
We are and may become  subject to the terms of settlements,
orders and agreements that we have entered into with
government entities and regulatory authorities, which impose, or
could impos e, significan t operational and compliance costs on
us as they typically require us to enhance our procedures and
controls, expand our risk and control functions within our lines of
business, invest in technology and hire significant numbers of
additional risk, control and compliance personn el. Moreover , if
we fail to meet the requirements of the regulatory settlements,
orders or agreements to which we are subject, or, more
generally , fail to maintain risk and control procedures and
processes that meet the heightened standards established by
our regulators and other government authorities, we could be
required to enter into further settlements, orders or agreements
and pay additional fines, penalties or judgments, or accept
material regulatory restrictions on our businesses.
While we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk
management and compliance programs to identify , assess,
monitor and report on applicable laws, policies and procedures,
compliance risks will continue to exist, particula rly as we adapt
to new and evolving laws, rules and regulations. Additionally ,
changing U.S. fiscal, monetary and regulatory policies arising
from changes to the U.S. presidential administration and
Congress result in ongoing regulatory uncertainties. There is no
guarantee that our risk management and compliance programs
will be consistently executed to successfully manage compliance
risk. We also rely upon third parties who may expose us to
compliance and legal risk. Future legislative or regulatory
actions, and any required changes to our business or
operations, or those of third parties (including their downstream
providers) upon whom we rely, resultin g from such
developments and actions could result in a significant loss of
revenue, impose additional compliance and other costs or
otherwise reduce our profitability , limit the products and services
that we offer or our ability to pursue certain business
opportunities, require us to dispose of or curtail certain
businesses, affect the value of assets that we hold, require us to
increase our prices and therefore reduce demand for ourproducts, or otherwise adversely affect our businesses. In
addition, legal and regulatory proceeding s and other
contingencies will arise from time to time that may result in fines,
regulatory sanctions, penalties, equitable relief and changes to
our business practices. As a result, we are and will continue to
be subject to heightened compliance and operating costs that
could adversely af fect our results of operations.
We are subject to significant financial and reputational risks
from potential liability arising from lawsuits and regulatory
and government action.
We continue  to face significant legal risks in our business,
with a high volume of claims against us and other financial
institutions. The damages, penalties and fines that litigants and
regulators seek from us and other financial institutions continue
to be high. This includes disputes with consumers, customers
and other counterparties.
Financial institutions, including us, continue to be the subject
of claims alleging anti-competitive conduct with respect to
various products and markets, including U.S. antitrust class
actions claiming joint and several liability for treble damages. As
disclosed in Note 12 — Commitments and Contingencies  to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, we also face contractual
indemnification and loan-repurchase claims arising from alleged
breaches of representations and warranties in the sale of
residential mortgages by legacy companies, which may result in
a requirement that we repurchase the mortgage loans, or
otherwise make whole or provide other  remedies to
counterparties.
In addition, regulatory authorities have had a supervisory
focus on enforcement, including in connection with alleged
violations of law and customer harm. For example, U.S.
regulators and government agencies have pursued claims
against financial institutions under the Financial Institutions
Reform, Recovery , and Enforcement Act, False Claims Act,
Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Fair Housing Act and antitrust
laws. Such claims may carry significant and, in certain cases,
treble damages. T here is also an increased  focus on compliance
with global laws, rules and regulations related to the collection,
use, sharin g and safeguarding of personally identifiable
information and corporate data. Additionally , misconduct by
employees, including unethical, fraudulent, improper or illegal
conduct, or other unfai r, deceptive, abusive or discriminatory
business practices, can result in litigation and/or government
investigations and enforcement actions, and cause significant
reputational harm.
The global environment  of extensive regulatio n, regulatory
compliance burdens, litigation and regulator y enforcement,
combined with uncertainty related to the continually evolving
regulatory environment, may affect operational and compliance
costs and risks, which may limit or cease our ability to continue
providing certain products and services. This is magnified by the
Corporation's implemen tation of government relief measures
related to the pandemic. Lawsuits and regulatory actions may
result in judgments, settlements, penalties and fines adverse to
the Corporation. Litigation and investigation costs, substantial
legal liability or significant regulatory or government action
against us could have adverse effects on our business, financial
condition, including liquidity, and results of operations, and/or
cause significant reputational harm to us.
U.S. federal banking agencies may require us to increase
our regulatory capital, total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC),
long-term debt or liquidity requirements.
We are subject to U.S. regulatory capital and liquidity rules.
These rules, among other things, establish minimum
requirements to qualify as a well-capitalized institution. If any of
17 Bank of America
our subsidiary insured depository institutions fails to maintain its
status as well capitalized under the applicable regulatory capital
rules, the Federal Reserve will require us to agree to bring the
insured depository institution back to well-capitalized status. For
the duration  of such an agreement, the Federal Reserve may
impose restrictions on our activities. If we were to fail to enter
into or comply with such an agreement, or fail to comply with the
terms of such agreement, the Federal Reserve may impose
more severe restrictions on our activities, including requiring us
to cease and desist activities permitted under the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956.
Capital and liquidity requirements are frequently introduced
and amended. It is possible that regulators may increase
regulatory capital requir ements including TLAC and long-term
debt requirements, change how regulatory capital is calculated
or increase liquidity requirements. Our ability to return capital to
our shareholders depends in part on our ability to maintain
regulatory capital levels above minimum requirements plus
buffers. To the extent that increases occur in our SCB, G-SIB
surcharge or countercyclical capital buffer, our returns of capital
to shareholders could decrease.
As part of its CCAR, the Federal Reserve conducts stress
testing on parts of our business using hypothetical economic
scenarios prepared by the Federal Reserve. Those scenarios
may affect our CCAR stress test results, which may impact the
level of our SCB. Additio nally, the Federal Rese rve may impose
limitations or prohibitions on taking capital actions, such as
paying or increasing dividends or repurchasing  common stock.
For example, as a result of the economic uncertainty resulting
from the pandemic, the Federal Reserve applied certain
restrictions on our common stock dividends and repurchase
program during the second half of 2020, and the first quarter of
2021, as disclosed in Item 1. Business – Distributions on page 5
and MD&A – Executive Summary – Recent Developments –
Capital Management on page 25.
A significant component of regulatory capit al ratios is
calculating our RWA and our leverage exposure, which may
increase. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has
also revised several key methodologies for measuring RWA that
have not yet been implemented in the U.S., including a
standardized approach for operational risk, revised market risk
requirements and constraints on the use of internal models, as
well as a capital floor based on the revised standardized
approaches. U.S. banking regulators may update the U.S. Basel
3 rules to incorporate the Basel Committee revisions.
Changes to and compliance with the regulatory capital and
liquidity requirements may impact our operations by requiring us
to liquidate assets, incre ase borrowings, issue additional equity
or other securities, cease or alter certain operations or hold
highly liquid  assets, which may adversely affect our results of
operations.
Changes in accounting standards or assumptions in
applying accounting policies could adversely affect us.
Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to
how we record and report our financial conditio n and results of
operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and
assumptions that may affect the reported value of our assets or
liabilities and results of operations and are critical because they
require management to make difficult, subjective and complex
judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. If those
assumptions, estimates or judgments were incor rectly made, we
could be required to correct and restate prior-period financial
statements. Accounting standard-setters and those who interpret
the accounting standards, the SEC, banking regulators and our
independent registered public accounting firm may alsoamend or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions
on how various standards should be applied. These changes
may be difficult to predict and could impact how we prepare and
report our financial statements. In some cases, we could be
required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively ,
resulting in us revising prior-period financial statements.
We may be adversely affected by changes in U.S. and non-
U.S. tax laws and regulations.
In Decembe r 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act)
was enacted, which made significant changes to federal income
tax law including, among other things, reducing the statutory
corporate income tax rate to 21 percent from 35 percent and
changing the taxation of our non-U.S. business activities.
In addition, we have U.K. net deferred tax assets (DTA)
which consis t primarily of net operating losses that are expected
to be realized by certain subsidiaries over an extended number
of years. Adverse devel opments with respect to tax laws or to
other material factors, such as prolonged worsening of Europe’ s
capital markets or chang es in the ability of our U.K. subsidiaries
to conduct business in the EU, could lead our management to
reassess and/or change its current conclusion that no valuation
allowance is necessary with respect to our U.K. net DT A.
It is possible  that governmental authorities in the U.S. and/or
other countries could further amend or repeal tax laws in a way
that would adversely affect us, including the possibility that
aspects of the Tax Act could be amended in the future. Any
future chang e in tax laws and regulations or interpretations of
current or future tax laws and regulations could adversely affect
our results of operations.
Reputation
Damage to our reputation could harm our businesses,
including our competitive position and business prospects.
Our ability to attract and retain customers, clients, investors
and employ ees is impacted by our reputation. Harm to our
reputation can arise from various sources, including officer,
director or employee fraud, misconduct and unethical behavior ,
security breaches, litigation or regulatory outcomes,
compensation practices , lending practices, the suitability or
reasonableness of recommending particul ar trading or
investment strategies, including the reliability of our research
and models , prohibiting clients from engaging in certain
transactions and employee sales practices. Additionally , our
reputation may be harmed by failing to deliver products, subpar
standards of service and quality expected by our customers,
clients and the community , compliance failures, the inability to
manage technology change or maintain effective data
management, cyber incidents, internal and external fraud,
inadequacy of responsiveness to internal controls, unintended
disclosure of personal, proprietary or confidential information,
conflicts of interest and breach of fiduciary obligations, the
handling of health emergencies or pandemics, and the activities
of our clients, customers, counterparties and third parties,
including vendors. For example, our reputation may be harmed
in connection with our implementation of government programs
to provide relief to address the economic impact of the
pandemic. Our reputation may also be negatively impacted by
our ESG practices and disclosures, our businesses and our
customers, including practices and disclosures related to climate
change. Actions by the financial services industry generally or by
certain members or individuals in the industry also can adversely
affect our reputation. In addition, adverse publicity or negative
information posted on social media by employees, the media or
otherwise, whether or not factually
Bank of America 18
correct, may adversely impact our business prospects or
financial results.
We are subject to compl ex and evolving laws and regulations
regarding privacy , know-your-customer requirements, data
protection, including the GDPR, CCPA and CPR A, cross-border
data movement and other matters. Principles concerning the
appropriate scope of consumer and commercial privacy vary
considerably in different jurisdictions, and regulatory and public
expectations regarding the definition and scope of consumer
and comme rcial privacy  may remain fluid. It is possible that
these laws may be interpreted and applied by various
jurisdictions in a manner inconsistent with our current or future
practices, or that is inconsistent with one another . If personal,
confidential or proprietary information of customers or clients in
our possession, or in the possession of third parties (including
their down stream service providers) or financial data
aggregators, is mishandled, misused or mismanaged, or if we do
not timely or adequately address such information, we may face
regulatory , reputational  and operational risks which could
adversely af fect our financial condition and results of operations.
We could suffer reputa tional harm if we fail to properly
identify and manage potential conflicts of interest. Management
of potential conflicts of interest has becom e increasingly
complex as we expand our business activities through more
numerous transactions,  obligations and interests with and
among our clients. The failure to adequately address, or the
perceived failure to adequately address, conflicts of interest
could affect the willingn ess of clients to use our products and
services, or give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which
could adversely af fect our business.
Our actual or perceived  failure to address these and other
issues, such  as operational risks, gives rise to reputational risk
that could harm us and our business prospects. Failure to
appropriately address any of these issues could also give rise to
additional regulatory restrictions, legal risks and reputational
harm, which  could, among other consequence s, increase the
size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or
subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties, and
cause us to incur related costs and expenses.
Other
Reforms to and replacement of IBORs and certain other
rates or indices may adversely affect our reputation,
business, financial condition and results of operations.
There is a major transition in progress in global financial
markets with respect to the replacement of IBOR s, including the
London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), and certain other rates
or indices that serve as “benchmarks.” Such benchmarks are
used extensively across global financial markets and in our
business. In particular , LIBOR is used in many of our products
and contracts, including derivatives, consumer and commercial
loans, mortgages, floating-rate notes and other adjustable-rate
products and financial instruments. The aggregate notional
amount of these products and contracts is material to our
business, and there are significant risks and challenges
associated with the transition that may result in significant
uncertainty , or have other consequences that cannot be fully
anticipated, which expose us to various financial, operational,
supervisory , conduct and legal risks.
Although certain ARRs have been proposed to replace
LIBOR and other IBOR s, market and client adoption of ARRs
may vary across or within categories of contracts, products and
services, resulting in market fragmentation, decreased trading
volumes and liquidity , increased complexity and modeling andoperational risks. ARRs have compositions and characteristics
that differ significantly from the benchmarks they may replace, in
some cases have limited history , and may demonstrate less
predictable performance  over time than the benchmarks they
replace. Additionally , most ARRs are calculated on a
compounded or weighted-average basis, involve  complex billing
and reconciliation and, unlike IBORs, do not reflect bank credit
risk and therefore may require a spread adjustm ent. The market
transition from IBORs to ARRs is complex and there are
important differences between the fallbacks , triggers and
calculation methodologies being implemented in cash and
derivatives markets (including within cash markets). Any
mismatch between the adoption of ARRs in loans, securities and
derivatives markets may impact hedging or other financial
arrangements we have implemented, and as a result we may
experience unanticipated market exposures. There can be no
assurance that ARRs will be comparable  or adequate
alternatives to IBORs or perform in the same way, that existing
assets and liabilities based on or linked to IBORs will transition
successfully to ARRs, of the timing of adoption and degree of
integration and acceptance of ARRs in the financial markets, or
of the future availability or representativeness of such ARRs.
The discontinuation of IBORs, including LIBOR , requires us
to transition a significant number of IBOR-based products and
contracts, including related hedging arrangements (IBOR
Products). Although, a significant majority of the aggregate
notional amount of our LIBOR-based products and contracts
maturing after 2021 include or have been updated to include
fallbacks to ARRs, the transitioning of certain contracts, products
and clients will be more complex. While some of these
outstanding IBOR Products include fallback provisions to ARRs,
some of these products and contracts do not include fallback
provisions or adequate fallback mechanism s and require
remediation to modify their terms. Additionally , some outstanding
IBOR Products are particularly challenging to modify due to the
requirement that all impacted parties consent to such
modification. Legislation has been adopted in the EU and
proposed in the U.S. and the U.K. to address such challenges in
IBOR Products, including the use of a statutory  replacement or
“synthetic” rate to replace the existing benchmark rate in certain
of our IBOR Products. Litigation, disputes or other action may
occur as a result of the interpretation or applicati on of legislation,
in particular , if there is an overlap between legislation introduced
in different jurisdictions. There is no guarantee that the
legislative proposals will become law and no assurance that we
and other market participants will be able to successfully modify
all outstanding IBOR Products or be adequately prepared for a
discontinuation of an IBOR at the time such IBOR may cease to
be published or otherwi se discontinued. Also, there can be no
assurance that existing or new provisions for successor rates in
our IBOR Products will include adequate methodologies for
adjustments or that the characteristics of the successor rates will
be similar to or produce the economic equivalent of the
benchmarks they seek to replace. These changes may
adversely affect the yield on loans or securit ies held by us,
amounts paid on securities we have issued, amounts received
and paid on derivatives we have entered into, the value of such
loans, securities or derivative instruments, the trading market for
such produc ts and contracts, and our ability to effectively use
hedging instruments to manage risk. Certain impacted clients,
counterparties and other market participants may refuse, delay ,
or lack operational readiness to transition to ARRs, resulting in
the risk that some contr acts and products may not transition to
an ARR before discontinuation of the relevant IBOR, exposing
us to financial, operational, supervisory , conduct and legal risks.
19 Bank of America
Our products and contracts that reference IBORs, in
particular LIBOR, may contain language that determines when a
successor rate including the ARR and/or the applicable spread
adjustment to the designated rate (including IBORs) would be
selected or determined. If a trigger is satisfied, our products and
contracts may give the calculation agent (which may be us)
discretion over the successor rate to be selected. We may face
a risk of litigation, disputes or other action s from clients,
counterparties, custome rs, investors or others  regarding the
interpretation or enforcement of IBOR-based contract provisions
or if we fail to appropriately communicate the effect that the
transition to ARRs will have on existing and future products.
The Corporation has launched, and expects to continue to
develop, launch and support, ARR-based produc ts and services.
The transition to ARR-based products is complex and involves
client and financial contract changes, internal and external
communication, technology and operations modifications,
industry and regulatory engagement, migrat ion of existing
clients, execution of business strategy and governance. New
financial products linked to ARRs may be less liquid, result in
mispricing and additional legal, financial, tax, operational,
market, compliance, reputational, competitive or other risks to
us, our clients and other market participant s. There is no
guarantee that liquidity in ARR-based products will develop, and
it is possible that ARR-based products will perform differently to
IBOR Products during times of economic stress, adverse or
volatile market conditions and across the credit and economic
cycle, which may impact the value, return on and profitability of
our ARR-based assets.
Failure to meet industry- wide IBOR transition milestones and
to cease issuance of IBOR Products by relevant cessation dates
may, subject to certain regulatory exceptions, result in
supervisory enforcement by applicable regulators, increase our
cost of, and access to, capital and other consequences. In
addition, IBOR Products held by us may becom e less liquid as
the transition process develops, and other unforeseen
consequences may arise if such products are held beyond
relevant cessation dates.
Changes or uncertainty resulting from the mark et transition
from IBORs to ARRs could adversely affect the return on and
pricing, liquidity and value of outstanding IBOR Products, cause
significant market dislocations and disruptions, potentially
increase the cost of and access to capital, increase the risk of
litigation or other disputes, including in connection with the
interpretation and enforceability of, or our historical marketing
practices or disclosures with respect to outstanding IBOR
products with counterparties, and/or increase expenses related
to the transition to ARRs, among other adverse consequences.
The market transition may also alter our risk profile and risk
management strategies, including derivatives  and hedging
strategies, modeling and analytics, valuation tools, product
design and systems, controls, procedures and operational
infrastructure. This may prove challenging given the limited
history of many of the proposed ARRs and may increase the
costs and risks related to potential regulatory compliance,
requirements or inquiries. Among other risks, various products
and contrac ts may transition to ARRs at different times or in
different manners, with the result that we may face significant
unexpected interest rate, pricing or other exposures across
business or product lines. Reforms to and uncertainty regarding
market transition and other factors may adversely affect our
business, including the ability to serve customers and maintain
market share, financial condition or results of operations and
could result in reputational harm to the Corporation.We face significant and increasing competition in the
financial services industry .
We operate in a highly competitive environment and
experience intense competition from local and global financial
institutions as well as new entrants, in both domestic and foreign
markets, in which we compete on the basis of a number of
factors, including customer service, quality and range of
products and services offered, technology , price, fees,
reputation, interest rates on loans and deposits, lending limits
and customer convenience. Additionally , the changing regulatory
environment may create competitive disadvanta ges for us given
geography-driven capital and liquidity requirements. Additionally ,
we may face competitors with more experience and established
relationships in the relevant market, which could adversely affect
our ability to compete.
In addition, emerging technologies and advances and the
growth of e-commerce have lowered geographi c and monetary
barriers of other financ ial institutions, made it easier for non-
depository institutions to offer products and services that
traditionally were banking products and allowed non-traditional
financial service providers and technology companies to
compete with traditional financial service compa nies in providing
electronic and internet-b ased financial solutions and services,
including electronic securities trading with low or no fees and
commissions, marketplace lending, financial data aggregation
and payment processing, including real-time payment platforms.
Further , clients may choose to conduct business with other
market participants who engage in business or offer products in
areas we deem speculative or risky, such as cryptocurrencies.
Increased competition may negatively affect our earnings by
creating pressure to lower prices, fees, commissions or credit
standards on our products and services requiring additional
investment to improve the quality and delivery of our technology
and/or reducing our market share, or affecting the willingness of
our clients to do business with us.
Our inability to adapt our products and services could harm
our business.
Our business model is based on a diversified mix of
businesses that provide a broad range of financial products and
services, delivered through multiple distribution channels. Our
success depends on our, and our third-party vendors', ability to
adapt and develop products, services and technology to rapidly
evolving industry standards and consumer preferences. In
particular , the emergence of the pandemic has resulted in
increased reliance on digital banking and other digital services
provided by the Corporation’ s businesses. There is increasing
pressure by competitors to provide products and services on
more attractive terms, including higher interest rates on
deposits, and offer lower cost investment strategies, which may
impact our ability to grow revenue and/or effectively compete.
Additionally , legislative and regulatory developm ents may affect
the competitive landscape. Further , the competitive landscape
may be impacted by the growth of non-depository institutions
that offer traditional bank ing products at higher rates or with low
or no fees, or otherwis e offer alternative products. This can
reduce our net interest margin and revenues from our fee-based
products and services, either from a decrease in the volume of
transactions or through a compression of spreads.
In addition, the widespread adoption and rapid evolution of
new technologies, including analytic capabilit ies, self-service
digital tradin g platforms , internet services, distributed ledgers,
such as the blockchain system, cryptocurrencie s and payment
systems, could require substantial expenditures to modify or
adapt our existing products and services as we grow and
develop our online and mobile banking channel strategies in
Bank of America 20
addition to remote connectivity solutions. We may not be as
timely or successful in developing or introducing new products
and services, integrating new products or services into our
existing offerings, responding or adapting to changes in
consumer behavior , preferences, spending, investing and/or
saving habits, achieving market acceptance of our products and
services, reducing costs in response to pressures to deliver
products and services at lower prices or sufficiently developing
and maintaining loyal customers. The Corporation’ s or its third-
party vendors' inability to adapt products and services to
evolving industry stand ards and consumer preferences could
result in service disruptions and harm our business and
adversely af fect our results of operations and reputation.
We could suffer operational, reputational and financial harm
if our mode ls and strategies fail to properly  anticipate and
manage risk.
We use proprietary models and strategies extensively to
forecast losses, project revenue, measure and assess capital
requirements for credit, country , market, operational and
strategic risks and assess and control our operations and
financial condition. Model risk management is a dedicated and
independent risk function that defines model risk governance,
policy and guidelines for the Corporation based on laws, rules
and regulations, as well as internal requirements. Under the
Corporation's Enterpris e Model Risk Polic y, model risk
management is required to perform model oversight, including
independent validation before initial use, ongoing monitoring
through outcomes analysis and benchmarking, and periodic
revalidation. Models are subject to inherent limitations due to the
use of historical trends and simplifying assumptions, uncertainty
regarding economic and financial outcomes, and emerging risks
from the use of applications that rely on AI.
Our models and strategies may not be sufficiently predictive
of future results due to limited historical patterns, extreme or
unanticipated market movements or customer behavior and
liquidity , especially during severe market downturns or stress
events, which could limit their effectiveness. The models that we
use to assess and control our market risk exposures also reflect
assumptions about the degree of correlation among prices of
various asset classes or other market indicators, which may not
be representative of the next downturn and would magnify the
limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk. Our
models may not be effective if we fail to properly oversee them
and detect their flaws during our review and monitoring
processes, they contain erroneous data, assumptions,
valuations, formulas or algorithms or our applications running
the models do not perfor m as expected. Regard less of the steps
we take to ensure ef fective controls, governance, monitoring and
testing, and implement new
technology and automated processes, we could suffer
operational, reputational and financial harm if models and
strategies fail to properly anticipate and manage current and
evolving risks.
Failure to properly manage and aggregate data may result
in our inability to manage risk and business needs, errors in
our day-to- day operat ions, critical reporting and strategic
decision-making and inaccurate reporting.
We rely on our ability to manage, surveil, aggreg ate, interpret
and use data in an accurate, timely and complete manner for
effective risk reportin g and management. Our policies,
programs, processes and practices govern how data is
surveilled, managed, aggregated, interpreted and used. While
we continuously update our policies, programs, processes and
practices and implement emerging technologies, such asautomation, AI and robotics, our data management and
aggregation processes are subject to failure, including human
error, system failure or failed controls. Failure to surveil, maintain
and manage data and information effectively and to aggregate
data and information in an accurate, timely and complete
manner may impact its quality and reliability and limit our ability
to manage current and emerging risk, to produce accurate
financial, regulatory and operational reporting, as well as to
manage changing business needs, strategic decision-making
and day-to-day operations. The failure to establish and maintain
effective, efficient and controlled data management could
adversely impact our ability to develop our products and
relationships with our customers and damage our reputation.
Our operations, businesses and custom ers could be
materially adversely affected by the impacts related to
climate change.
There is an increasing concern over the risks of climate
change and related environmental sustainabili ty matters. The
physical risks of climate change include rising average global
temperatures, rising sea levels and an increase in the frequency
and severity of extreme weather events and natural disasters,
including floods, wildfires, hurricanes and tornados. Such
disasters could disrupt our operations or the operations of
customers or third parties on which we rely. Such disasters
could result in market volatility or negatively impact our
customers’ ability to pay outstanding loans, damage collateral or
result in the deterioratio n of the value of collate ral or insurance
shortfalls. Additionally , climate change concerns could result in
transition risk. Changes in consumer preferences and additional
legislation and regulatory requirements, including those
associated with the transition to a low-carbon economy , could
increase expenses or otherwise adversely impact the
Corporation, its businesses or its customers. We could also
experience increased expenses resulting from strategic
planning, litigation and technology and marke t changes, and
reputational harm as a result of negative public sentiment,
regulatory scrutiny and reduced investor and stakeholder
confidence due to our response to climate change and our
climate change strategy .
Our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is
critical to our success , business prospects and competitive
position.
Our performance is heavily dependent on the talents and
efforts of highly skilled  individuals. Competition for qualified
personnel within the financial services industry and from
businesses outside the financial services industry is intense.
Our competitors include non-U.S. based institutions and
institutions subject to different compensation and hiring
regulations than those imposed on U.S. institutions and financial
institutions.
In order to attract and retain qualified personn el, we must
provide market-level compensation. As a large financial and
banking institution, we are and may become subject to additional
limitations on compensation practices, which may or may not
affect our competitors, by the Federal Reserve , the OCC, the
FDIC and other regulato rs around the world. EU and U.K. rules
limit and subject to clawback certain forms of variable
compensation for senior employees. Furthermo re, a substantial
portion of our annual incentive compensation paid to our senior
employees consists of long-term equity-based awards, the value
of which is based on the price of our common stock when the
awards vest. Our business prospects and competitive position
could be adversely affected if we cannot attract and retain
qualified individuals.
 
21 Bank of America
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
None
Item 2. Properties
As of December 31, 2020, certain principal of fices and other materially important properties consisted of the following:
Facility Name LocationGeneral Character of the Physical
Property Primary Business SegmentProperty
StatusProperty
Square Feet 
Bank of America Corporate
CenterCharlotte, NC 60 Story Building Principal Executive Offices Owned 1,212,177
Bank of America Tower at
One Bryant ParkNew York, NY 55 Story BuildingGWIM, Global Banking and
 Global MarketsLeased 1,836,575
 Bank of America Financial
CentreLondon, UK 4 Building Campus Global Banking and Global Markets Leased 565,362
Cheung Kong Center Hong Kong 62 Story Building Global Banking and Global Markets Leased 149,790
For leased properties, property square feet represents the square footage occupied by the Corporation.
The Corporation has a 49.9 percent joint venture interest in this property .
We own or lease approximately 74.6 million square feet in
over 20,000 facilities and ATM locations globally , including
approximately 69.2 million square feet in the U.S. (all 50 states
and the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico
and Guam) and approximately 5.4 million square feet in
approximately 35 countries.
We believe our owned and leased properties are adequate
for our business needs and are well maintained. We continue to
evaluate our owned and leased real estate and may determine
from time to time that certain of our premises and facilities, or
ownership structures, are no longer necessary for ouroperations. In connection therewith, we regula rly evaluate the
sale or sale/leaseback of certain properties and we may incur
costs in connection with any such transactions.
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
See Litigat ion and Regulatory Matters in Note 12 –
Commitments and Contingencies  to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
None
Part II
Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries
Item 5. Market for Registrant’ s Common Equity , Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities
The principa l market on which our common stock is traded is the
New York Stock Excha nge under the symbol “BAC.” As of
February 23, 2021, there were 156,206 register ed shareholders
of common stock.
The table below presents share repurchase activity for the
three months ended December 31, 2020. The primary source of
funds for cash distributions by the Corporation to its
shareholders is dividends received from its bank subsidiaries.Each of the bank subs idiaries is subject to various regulatory
policies and requirements relating to the payment of dividends,
including requirements to maintain capital above regulatory
minimums. All of the Corporation’ s preferred stock outstanding
has preference over the Corporation’ s common stock with
respect to payment of dividends.
(Dollars in millions, except per share information; shares in thousands)Total Common
Shares
Purchased Weighted-
Average Per
Share PriceTotal Shares
 Purchased as
 Part of Publicly
 Announced
ProgramsRemaining
Buyback
Authority
Amounts 
October 1 - 31, 2020 10,762 $ 24.44 — $ — 
November 1 - 30, 2020 1 24.81 — — 
December 1 - 31, 2020 1 27.39 — — 
Three months ended December 31, 2020 10,764 24.44 — — 
Includes two thousand shares of the Corporation’ s common stock acquired by the Corporation in connection with satisfaction of tax withholding  obligations on vested restricted stock or restricted
stock units and certain forfeitures and terminations of employment-related awards and for potential re-issuance to certain employees under equity incentive plans.
During the three months ended December 31, 2020, pursuant to the Corporation's Board's authorization, the Corporation repurchased approximately 11 million shares, or $263 million, of its
common stock solely to of fset shares awarded under equity-based compensation plans.
On January 19, 2021, the Board authorized the repurchase of $2.9 billion in common stock through March 31, 2021, plus approximately $300 million to offset shares awarded under equity-based
compensation plans during the same period. For more information, see Capital Management - CCAR and Capital Planning in the MD&A on page 50 and Note 13 – Shareholders’ Equity  to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Corporation did not have any unregistered sales of equity securities during the three months ended December 31, 2020.
Item 6. Selected Financial Data
See T ables 6 and 7 in the MD&A beginning on page 32, which are incorporated herein by reference.(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
(1,2) (3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
Bank of America 22
Item 7. Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Table of Contents
Page
Executive Summary 24
Recent Developments 25
Financial Highlights 27
Balance Sheet Overview 29
Supplemental Financial Data 31
Business Segment Operations 36
Consumer Banking 37
Global W ealth & Investment Management 40
Global Banking 42
Global Markets 44
All Other 45
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations 46
Managing Risk 47
Strategic Risk Management 50
Capital Management 50
Liquidity Risk 57
Credit Risk Management 61
Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management 62
Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management 68
Non-U.S. Portfolio 74
Allowance for Credit Losses 76
Market Risk Management 78
Trading Risk Management 79
Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book 82
Mortgage Banking Risk Management 84
Compliance and Operational Risk Management 84
Reputational Risk Management 85
Climate Risk Management 85
Complex Accounting Estimates 85
Non-GAAP Reconciliations 88
Statistical T ables 89
23 Bank of America
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
Bank of America Corporation (the “Corporation”) and its
management may make certain statements that constitute
“forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can
be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to
historical or current facts . Forward-looking statements often use
words such as “antic ipates,” “targets,” “expects,” “hopes,”
“estimates,” “intends,” “plans,” “goals,” “believes, ” “continue” and
other similar expressions or future or conditiona l verbs such as
“will,” “may ,” “might,” “should,” “would” and “could.” Forward-
looking statements represent the Corporation’ s current
expectations, plans or forecasts of its future results, revenues,
provision for credit losses, expenses, efficienc y ratio, capital
measures, strategy and future business and economic
conditions more generally , and other future matters. These
statements are not guarantees of future results or performance
and involve certain known and unknown risks, uncertainties and
assumptions that are difficult to predict and are often beyond the
Corporation’ s control. Actual outcomes and results may differ
materially from those expressed in, or implied by, any of these
forward-looking statements.
You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking
statement and should consider the following uncertainties and
risks, as well as the risks and uncertainties more fully discussed
under Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-
K: the Corporation’ s potential judgments, damages, penalties,
fines and reputational damage resulting from pending or future
litigation, regulatory proceedings and enforcement actions; the
possibility that the Corporation's future liabilities may be in
excess of its recorded liability and estimated range of possible
loss for litigation, and regulatory and government actions,
including as a result of our participation in and execution of
government programs related to the Coronaviru s Disease 2019
(COVID-19) pandemic; the possibility that the Corporation could
face increas ed claims from one or more parties involved in
mortgage securitizations; the Corporation’ s ability to resolve
representations and warranties repurchase and related claims;
the risks related to the discontinuation of the London Interbank
Offered Rate and other reference rates, including increased
expenses and litigation and the effectivene ss of hedging
strategies; uncertainties about the financial stability and growth
rates of non-U.S. jurisdictions, the risk that those jurisdictions
may face difficulties servicing their sovereign debt, and related
stresses on financial markets, currencies and trade, and the
Corporation’ s exposures to such risks, including  direct, indirect
and operatio nal; the impact of U.S. and global interest rates,
inflation, currency exchange rates, economic conditions, trade
policies and tensions, including tariffs, and potential geopolitical
instability; the impact of the interest rate environment on the
Corporation’ s business , financial condition and results of
operations; the possibility that future credit losse s may be higher
than currently expected due to changes  in economic
assumptions, customer behavior , adverse developments with
respect to U.S. or global economic conditions and other
uncertainties; the Corporation's concentration of credit risk; the
Corporation’ s ability to achieve its expens e targets and
expectations regarding revenue, net interest income, provision
for credit losses, net charge-offs, effective tax rate, loan growth
or other projections; adverse changes to the Corporation’ s credit
ratings from the major credit rating agencies ; an inability to
access capital markets or maintain deposits or borrowing costs;
estimates of the fair value and other accounting values, subject
to impairment assessments, of certain of the Corporation’ s
assetsand liabilitie s; the estimated or actual impact  of changes in
accounting standards or assumptions in applying those
standards; uncertainty regarding the content, timing and impact
of regulatory capital and liquidity requirements; the impact of
adverse changes to total loss-absorbing capacity requirements,
stress capit al buffer requirements and/or global systemically
important bank surcharg es; the potential impact of actions of the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on the
Corporation’ s capital plans; the effect of regulations, other
guidance or additional information on the impact from the Tax
Cuts and Jobs Act; the impact of implementation and
compliance with U.S. and international laws, regulations and
regulatory interpretation s, including, but not limited to, recovery
and resolution planning requirements, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation assessments, the Volcker Rule, fiduciary
standards, derivatives regulations and the Coronavirus Aid,
Relief, and Economic Security Act and any similar or related
rules and regulations; a failure or disruption in or breach of the
Corporation’ s operationa l or security systems or infrastructure,
or those of third parties,  including as a result of cyber attacks or
campaigns; the impact on the Corporation’ s business, financial
condition and results of operations from the United Kingdom's
exit from the European Union; the impact of climate change; the
impact of any future federal government shutdown and
uncertainty regarding the federal government ’s debt limit or
changes to the U.S. presidential administration and Congress;
the emergence of widespread health emergencies or
pandemics, including the magnitude and duration of the COVID-
19 pandemic and its impact on the U.S. and/or global, financial
market conditions and our business, results of operations,
financial condition and prospects; the impact of natural
disasters, extreme weather events, military conflict, terrorism or
other geopolitical events; and other matters.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they
are made, and the Corporation undertakes no obligation to
update any forward-looking statement to reflect the impact of
circumstances or events that arise after the date the forward-
looking statement was made.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements referred to in
the Management’ s Discussion and Analysi s of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) are incorporated
by reference into the MD&A. Certain prior-year amounts have
been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
Throughout the MD&A, the Corporation uses certain acronyms
and abbreviations which are defined in the Glossary .
Executive Summary
Business Overview
The Corporation is a Delaware corporation, a bank holding
company (BHC) and a financial holding company . When used in
this report, “the Corpora tion,” “we,” “us” and “our” may refer to
Bank of America Corp oration individually , Bank of America
Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of Bank of America
Corporation’ s subsidiarie s or affiliates. Our principal executive
offices are located in Charlotte, North Carolina. Through our
various bank and nonbank subsidiaries throughout the U.S. and
in international markets, we provide a diversified range of
banking and nonbank financial services and products through
four business segments: Consumer Banking , Global Wealth &
Investment Management (GWIM) , Global Banking  and Global
Markets , with the remaining operations recorded in All Other .
We operate our banking activities primarily under the Bank of
BankofAmerica24
Bank of America 24
America, National Association (Bank of America, N.A. or BANA)
charter . At December 31, 2020, the Corporation  had $2.8 trillion
in assets and a headcount of approximately 213,000 employees.
As of December 31, 2020, we served clients through
operations across the U.S., its territories and approximately 35
countries. Our retail banking footprint covers all major markets in
the U.S., and we serve approximately 66 million consumer and
small busine ss clients with approximately 4,300 retail financial
centers, approximately 17,000 A TMs, and leading digital banking
platforms (www.bankofamerica.com) with more than 39 million
active users , including approximately 31 millio n active mobile
users. We offer industry -leading support to approximately three
million small business households. Our GWIM  businesses, with
client balances of $3.3 trillion, provide tailored solutions to meet
client needs through a full set of investment management,
brokerage, banking, trust and retirement products. We are a
global leader in corporate and investment banking and trading
across a broad range of asset classes serving corporations,
governments, institutions and individuals around the world.
Recent Developments
Capital Management
In June 2020, the Boar d of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System (Federal Reserve) notified BHCs of their 2020
Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR)
supervisory stress test results. Due to econo mic uncertainty
resulting from the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
pandemic (the pandemic), the Federal Reserve required all large
banks to update and resubmit their capital plans in November
2020 based  on the Federal Reserve’ s updated supervisory
stress test scenarios. The results of the additional supervisory
stress tests were published in December 2020.
The Federal Reserve also required large banks to suspend
share repurchase programs during the second half of 2020,
except for repurchases to offset shares awarded under equity-
based compensation plans, and to limit common stock dividends
to existing rates that did not exceed the average of the last four
quarters’ net income. In December 2020, the Federal Reserve
announced that beginning in the first quarter of 2021, large
banks would be permitted to pay common stock dividends at
existing rates and to repurchase shares in an amount that, when
combined with dividends  paid, does not exceed the average of
net income over the last four quarters.
On January 19, 2021, we announced that the Board of
Directors (the Board) declared a quarterly common stock
dividend of $0.18 per share, payable on March 26, 2021 to
shareholders of record as of March 5, 2021. We also announced
that the Board authori zed the repurchase of $2.9 billion in
common stock through March 31, 2021, plus repurchases to
offset shares awarded under equity-based compensation plans
during the same period, estimated to be approximately $300
million. This authorization equals the maximum amount allowed
by the Federal Reserve for the period. For more information, see
Capital Management on page 50.
COVID-19 Pandemic
In the first quarter of 2020, the World Health Organization
declared the outbreak of COVID-19 a pandemic. In an attempt to
contain the spread and impact of the pandemic, travel bans and
restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders and other
limitations on business activity were implemented. Additionally ,
there has been a decline in global economic activity , reduced
U.S. and global economic output and a deterioration in
macroeconomic conditions in the U.S. and globally . This hasresulted in, among other things, higher rates of unemployment
and underem ployment and caused volatility and disruptions in
the global financial markets, including the energy and
commodity markets. Although vaccines have been approved for
immunization against COVID-19 in certain countries and
restrictive measures have been eased in certain areas, COVID-
19 cases have significantly increased in recen t months in the
U.S. and many regions of the world compared to earlier levels.
Businesses, market participants, our counterpar ties and clients,
and the U.S. and global economies have been negatively
impacted and are likely to be so for an extended period of time,
as there remains significant uncertainty about the timing and
strength of an economic recovery .
To address the econom ic impact in the U.S., in March and
April 2020, four economic stimulus packages were enacted to
provide relief to businesses and individuals, including the
Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Securi ty Act (CARES
Act). Among other measures, the CARES Act established the
Small Busin ess Administration (SBA) Paycheck Protection
Program (PPP), which provides loans to small businesses to
keep their employees on payroll and make other eligible
payments. The original funding for the PPP under the CARES
Act was fully allocated by mid-April 2020, with additional funding
made available on April 24, 2020 under the Paycheck Protection
Program and Health Care Enhancement Act. In December 2020,
an additional economic stimulus package was included as part
of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2021 (the
Consolidated Appropriations Act), which provides relief to
individuals and businesses. This relief included additional
funding for the PPP under the Economic Aid to Hard-Hit Small
Businesses, Nonprofits, and V enues Act (the Economic Aid Act).
In response to the pandemic, the Corporation has
implemented protocols and processes to exec ute its business
continuity plans and help protect its employees and support its
clients. The Corporation is managing its response to the
pandemic according to its Enterprise Respon se Framework,
which invokes centralized management of the crisis event and
the integrati on of its response. The CEO and key members of
the Corporation’ s management team meet regularly with co-
leaders of the Executive Response Team, which is composed of
senior executives across the Corporation, to help drive
decisions, communications and consistency of response across
all businesses and functions. We are also coordinating with
global, regional and local authorities and health experts,
including the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
(CDC) and the W orld Health Organization.
Additionally , we have implemented a number of measures
to assist our employees , clients and the communities we serve
as discussed below .
Employees
We are providing suppo rt to our teammates to help promote the
health and safety of our employees and help to ensure our
protocols remain aligned to current guidance  by monitoring
guidance from the CDC, medical boards and health authorities
and sharing such guidance with our employees. We are also
operating our businesses from remote locations and leveraging
our business continuity plans and capabilities.
The Corporation has globally implemented a work-from-
home postu re, which has resulted in the substantial majority of
our emplo yees work ing from home, and pre-planned
contingency strategies for site-based operations for our
remaining employees. We continue to evaluate our continuity
plans and work-from-ho me strategy in an effort to best protect
the health and safety of our employees.
25 Bank of America
Clients
We continue to leverage our business continuity plans and
capabilities to service our clients and meet our clients’ financial
needs by of fering assistance to clients af fected by the pandemic,
including providing access to credit and the important financial
services on which our clients rely. We are also participating in
the programs created by the CARES Act and Federal Reserve
lending programs for businesses, including originating PPP
loans. We have also participated in the Main Street Lending
Program, which ended on January 8, 2021. While most of our
deferral programs expired in the third quarter of 2020, we
continue to offer assistance on a case-by-case basis when
requested by clients af fected by the pandemic.
As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 332,000
PPP loans outstanding with a carrying value of $22.7 billion,
which were  recorded in the Consumer , GWIM  and Global
Banking  segments. Since the PPP's inception through February
17, 2021, borrowers have submitted applications  for forgiveness
to us for approximately 113,000 PPP loans with balances
totaling $10.9 billion. We have submitted approximately 72,000
PPP loans with balanc es totaling $8.5 billion to the SBA for
repayment, of which we have received to date $5.4 billion in
repayment from the SBA. Additionally , as of February 17, 2021,
we have originated $4.1 billion in PPP loans under the Economic
Aid Act. For more information on PPP loans, see Credit Risk
Management on page 61, and for more information on
accounting for PPP loans and loan modifications under the
CARES Act, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting
Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Community Partners
We continue to support the communities where we live and work
by engaging  in various initiatives to help those affected by
COVID-19. These initiatives include committin g resources to
provide medical supplies , food and other necessities for those in
need. We are also supporting racial equality , economic
opportunity and environmental sustainability through direct
equity investments in minority-owned depository institutions,
equity investments in minority entrepreneurs, businesses and
funds, as well as other initiatives.
Risk Management
We continue to manage the increased operational risk related to
the execution of our business continuity plans in accordance
with our Enterprise Response Framework, Risk Framework and
Operational Risk Management Program. For more information,
see Managing Risk on page 47.
Loan Modifications
The Corporation has implemented various consumer and
commercial loan modification programs to provide its borrowers
relief from the economic impacts of COVID-19. Based on
guidance in the CARES Act that the Corporation adopted,
COVID-19 related modi fications to consumer and commercial
loans that were current as of December 31, 2019 are exempt
from troubled debt restructuring (TDR) classification under
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America (GAAP). In addition, the bank regulatory agencies
issued interagency guidance stating that COVID-19 related
short-term modifications (i.e., six months or less) granted to
consumer or commercial loans that were curren t as of the loan
modification program implementation date are not TDRs. In
December 2020, the Consolidated Appropriation s Act amended
the CARES Act by extending the exemption from TDR
classification for COVID-19 related modifications from December
31, 2020 to the earlier of January 1, 2022 or 60 days after the
national emergency has ended. For more information, see Note1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  and Note 5 –
Outstanding Loans and Leases and Allowance for Credit Losses
to the Consolidated Financial Statements .
We have provided borrowers with relief from the economic
impacts of COVID-19 through payment deferral and forbearance
programs. A significant portion of deferrals expired during the
second half of 2020, reflecting a decline in customer requests for
assistance. As of February 17, 2021, deferred consumer and
small business loans recorded on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet totaled $6.8 billion, predominantly consisting of $6.4
billion of residential mortgage and home equity loans, including
loans serviced by others, that are well-collateralized.
Other Related Matters
Although the macroecon omic outlook improved modestly during
the second half of 2020, the future direct and indirect impact of
COVID-19 on our businesses, results of operations and financial
condition of the Corpor ation remains highly uncertain. Should
current economic conditions persist or deteriorate, this
macroeconomic environ ment will have a continued adverse
effect on our businesses and results of opera tions and could
have an adverse effect on our financial cond ition. For more
information on how the risks related to the pandemic may
adversely affect our businesses, results of operations and
financial condition, see Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors on page 7.
LIBOR and Other Benchmark Rates
Following the 2017 announcement by the U.K.’s Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA) that it would no longer compel
participating banks to submit rates for the London Interbank
Offered Rate (LIBOR) after 2021, regulators, trade associations
and financ ial industr y working groups have identified
recommended replacement rates for LIBOR, as well as other
Interbank Offered Rates (IBORs), and have published
recommended conventions to allow new and existing products to
incorporate fallbacks or that reference these Alternative
Reference Rates (ARRs). The continuation of all British Pound
Sterling, Euro, Swiss Franc and Japanese Yen LIBOR settings
and one-week and two-month U.S. dollar LIBOR settings on the
current basis  are expected to terminate at the end of December
2021, and the remaining U.S. dollar LIBOR settings (i.e.,
overnight, one month, three month, six month and 12 month) are
expected to terminate at the end of June 2023.
As a result of this and other announcements, financial
benchmark reforms, regulatory guidance and changes in short-
term interb ank lending markets more generally , a major
transition is in progress in global financial markets with respect
to the replacement of IBORs and certain benchmarks. The
transition of IBORs to ARRs is a complex process impacting a
variety of global financial markets and our business and
operations.
IBORs are used in many of the Corporation’ s products and
contracts, including derivatives, consumer and commercial
loans, mortgages, floating-rate notes and other adjustable-rate
products and financial instruments. The discontinuation of
IBORs requires us to transition a significant number of IBOR-
based products and contracts, including related hedging
arrangements. In response, the Corporation established an
enterprise-wide IBOR transition program led by senior
management in early 2018. This program, which is led by the
Corporation's Chief Operating Officer, includes active
involvement of senior management and regular reports to the
Enterprise Risk Committee (ERC). The program is intended to
address the Corporation 's industry and regulato ry engagement,
client and financial contract changes, internal and external
communications, technology and operations modifications,
Bank of America 26
introduction of new products, migration of existing clients, and
program strategy and governance. In addition, the program is
designed to monitor a variety of scenarios, including operational
risks associated with insuf ficient preparation by individual market
participants or the overall market ecosystem, volatility along the
Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) curve, development
and adoption of credit-sensitive and other rates, regulatory and
legal uncertainty with respect to various matters including
contract continuity , access by market participants to liquidity in
certain products, and IBOR continuity beyond December 2021.
As of February 1, 2021, a significant majority of the
aggregate notional amount of our LIBOR-base d products and
contracts maturing after 2021 include or have been updated to
include fallbacks to ARRs based on market driven protocols,
regulatory guidance and industry-recommended fallback
provisions and related mechanisms. For certain of the remaining
products and contracts, the transition will be more complex,
particularly where there is no industry-wide protocol or similar
mechanism. The Corporation is executing transition plans that
are intended to be in line with applicable major industry-wide
IBOR produ ct cessation  and launch milestones  recommended
by the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a group of
private market participants and official sector entities convened
by the Federal Reserve  and the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York, and the Bank of England Sterling Risk Free Rate Working
Group, other  than the cessation of LIBOR-based adjustable-rate
consumer mortgages. The Corporation plans to no longer offer
these mortg ages and launch SOFR-based adjustable-rate
consumer mortgages by the end of the first quarter of 2021.
The Corporation is executing product and client roadmaps
that it believes align with industry-recommended and regulatory
milestones, and the Corporation has developed employee
training programs as well as other internal and external sources
of information on the various challenges and opportunities that
the replacement of IBORs presents. As the transition to ARRs
evolves, the Corporation continues to monitor and participate in
the development and usage of certain ARRs, including SOFR,
the Euro Short Term Rate and the Sterling Overnight Index
Average (SONIA). The Corporation’ s key transition efforts to
date include  issuances of debt and deposits linked to SOFR and
SONIA by the Corporation, facilitating debt issuances linked to
ARRs by clients and secondary market liquidity for products
linked to ARRs, originati ng and arranging loans linked to ARRs,
including hedging arrangements, executing, trading, market
making and clearing ARR-based derivatives,  and launching
capabilities and services to support the issuance and trading in
products indexed to certain ARRs. The Corporation updated its
operational models, systems, procedures and internal
infrastructure in connection with the transition to ARRs by the
central clear ing counterp arties. In October 2020, the Corporation
and certain of its subsidiaries adhered to the International
Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. 2020 IBOR Fallbacks
Protocol, effective January 25, 2021, which provides a
mechanism to enable market participants to incorporate
fallbacks for certain legacy non-cleared deriv atives linked to
certain IBORs.
Additionally , the Corporation is continuing to evaluate
potential regulatory , tax and accounting impacts of the transition,
including guidance published and/or proposed by the Internal
Revenue Service and Financial Accounting Standards Board,
engage impacted clients in connection with the transition to
ARRs and work actively with global regulators, industry working
groups and trade associations to develop strategies for an
effective transition to ARRs. For more information on theexpected replacement of LIBOR and other benchmark rates, see
Item 1A. Risk Factors – Other on page 19.
U.K. Exit from the EU
On January 31, 2020, the U.K. formally exited the European
Union (EU), and a transition period began during which time the
U.K. and the EU negotiated a trade agreement and other terms
associated with their future relationship. The transition period
ended on December 31, 2020.
We conduct business in Europe, the Middle East and Africa
primarily through our subsidiaries in the U.K., Ireland and France
and impleme nted changes to enable us to contin ue to operate in
the region, including establishing a bank and broker-dealer in
the EU, as well as minimize the potential for any operational
disruption. As the global economic impact of the U.K.’ s
withdrawal from the EU remains uncertain and could result in
regional and global financial market disruptions, we continue to
assess potential operational, regulatory and legal risks. For
more inform ation, see Item 1A. Risk Factors – Geopolitical on
page 12.
Financial Highlights
Effective January 1, 2020, we adopted the new accounting
standard on current expected credit losses (CECL), under which
the allowan ce is measured based on management’ s best
estimate of lifetime expected credit losses (ECL). Prior-year
periods presented reflect measurement of the allowance based
on management’ s estimate of probable incurred credit losses.
For more information, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant
Accounting Principles  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Table 1Summary Income Statement and Selected
Financial Data
(Dollars in millions, except per share information) 2020 2019
Income statement
Net interest income $ 43,360 $ 48,891 
Noninterest income 42,168 42,353 
Total revenue, net of interest
expense 85,528 91,244 
Provision for credit losses 11,320 3,590 
Noninterest expense 55,213 54,900 
Income before income taxes 18,995 32,754 
Income tax expense 1,101 5,324 
Net income 17,894 27,430 
Preferred stock dividends 1,421 1,432 
Net income applicable to common
shareholders $ 16,473 $ 25,998 
Per common share information   
Earnings $ 1.88 $ 2.77 
Diluted earnings 1.87 2.75 
Dividends paid 0.72 0.66 
Performance ratios
Return on average assets 0.67 % 1.14 %
Return on average common
shareholders’ equity 6.76 10.62 
Return on average tangible common
shareholders’ equity 9.48 14.86 
Efficiency ratio 64.55 60.17 
Balance sheet at year end   
Total loans and leases $ 927,861 $ 983,426 
Total assets 2,819,627 2,434,079 
Total deposits 1,795,480 1,434,803 
Total liabilities 2,546,703 2,169,269 
Total common shareholders’ equity 248,414 241,409 
Total shareholders’ equity 272,924 264,810 
For definitions, see Key Metrics on page 173.
Return on average tangible common  shareholders’ equity is a non-GAA P financial measure.
For more information and a corresponding reconciliation to the most closely related financial
measures defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America, see Non-GAAP Reconciliations on page 88.(1)
(1)
(2)
 (1)
(1)
(2)
27 Bank of America
Net income was $17.9 billion or $1.87 per diluted share in
2020 compared to $27.4 billion or $2.75 per diluted share in
2019. The decline in net income was primaril y due to higher
provision for credit losses driven by the weaker economic
outlook related to COVID-19 and lower net interest income.
For discuss ion and analysis of our consolidated and
business segment results of operations for 2019 compared to
2018, see the Financi al Highlights and Business Segment
Operations sections in the MD&A of the Corporation's 2019
Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Net Interest Income
Net interest income decreased $5.5 billion to $43.4 billion in
2020 compa red to 2019. Net interest yield on a fully taxable-
equivalent (FTE) basis decreased 53 basis points (bps) to 1.90
percent for 2020. The decrease in net interest income was
primarily driven by lower interest rates, partially offset by
reduced deposit and funding costs, the deployment of excess
deposits into securities and an additional day of interest accrual.
Assuming continued economic improvement and based on the
forward interest rate curve as of January 19, 2021, when we
announced quarterly and annual results for the periods ended
December 31, 2020, we expect net interest income to be higher
in the secon d half of 2021 as compared to both the second half
of 2020 and the first half of 2021. For more information on net
interest yield and the FTE basis, see Supplemental Financial
Data on page 31, and for more information on interest rate risk
management, see Interest Rate Risk Manag ement for the
Banking Book on page 82.
Noninterest Income
Table 2Noninterest Income
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Fees and commissions:
Card income $ 5,656 $ 5,797 
Service charges 7,141 7,674 
Investment and brokerage services 14,574 13,902 
Investment banking fees 7,180 5,642 
Total fees and commissions 34,551 33,015 
Market making and similar activities 8,355 9,034 
Other income (738) 304 
Total noninterest income $ 42,168 $ 42,353 
Noninterest income decreased  $185 million to $42.2 billion in
2020 compared to 2019. The following highlights the significant
changes.
●    Card income decreased $141 million primarily due to lower
levels of consumer spending driven by the impa ct of COVID-
19, partially offset by higher income related to the processing
of unemployment insurance.
●    Service charges decreased $533 million primarily due to
higher depo sit balances  and lower client activity due to the
impact of COVID-19.
●    Investment and brokera ge services income increased $672
million primarily due to higher client transactional activity ,
higher mark et valuation s and assets under management
(AUM) flows, partially of fset by declines in AUM pricing.●    Investm ent banking fees increased $1.5 billion primarily
driven by higher equity issuance fees.
●    Market making and similar activities decreas ed $679 million
primarily due to the impact of lower U.S. interest rates on
certain risk management derivatives, partial ly offset by
increased client activity and strong trading performance in
fixed income, currencies and commodities (FICC).
●    Other income decreased $1.0 billion primarily due to lower
equity inves tment incom e, higher partnership losses on tax
credit investments, primarily affordable housing and
renewable energy , partially offset by higher gains on loan
sales and sales of debt securities.
Provision for Credit Losses
The provisio n for credit losses increased $7.7 billion to $11.3
billion in 2020 compared  to 2019 primarily driven by higher ECL
due to a weaker economic outlook related to COVID-19. For
more information on the provision for credit losses, see
Allowance for Credit Losses on page 76.
Noninterest Expense
Table 3Noninterest Expense
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Compensation and benefits $ 32,725 $ 31,977 
Occupancy and equipment 7,141 6,588 
Information processing and communications 5,222 4,646 
Product delivery and transaction related 3,433 2,762 
Marketing 1,701 1,934 
Professional fees 1,694 1,597 
Other general operating 3,297 5,396 
Total noninterest expense $ 55,213 $ 54,900 
Noninterest expense increased $313 million to $55.2 billion in
2020 compared to 2019. The increase was primarily due to
higher operating costs related to COVID-19, merchant services
expenses, which were previously recorded in other income as
part of joint venture net earnings, and higher activity-based
expenses due to increased client activity , partially offset by a
$2.1 billion pretax impa irment charge related to the notice of
termination of the merchant services joint venture in 2019.
Income Tax Expense
Table 4Income Tax Expense
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Income before income taxes $ 18,995 $ 32,754 
Income tax expense 1,101 5,324 
Effective tax rate 5.8 % 16.3 %
Income tax expense was $1.1 billion for 2020 compared to $5.3
billion in 2019, resulting  in an effective tax rate of 5.8 percent
compared to 16.3 percent.
 
Bank of America 28
The change in the effective tax rate for 2020 was driven by
the impact of our recurring tax preference benefits on lower
levels of pretax income. These benefits primarily consist of tax
credits from environmental, social and governance (ESG)
investments in affordable housing and renewable energy ,
aligning with our responsible growth strategy to address global
sustainability challenges . Excluding tax credits  related to our
ESG investm ent activity , the effective tax rate for 2020 would
have been 21 percent.
The 2020 rate also included the impact of the U.K. tax law
change, whereby on July 22, 2020, the U.K. enacted a repeal of
the final two percent of scheduled decreases in the U.K.
corporation tax rate, which had been previously enacted. This
change will unfavorably affect income tax expense on future
U.K.earnings, and requires a reversal of the adjustm ent to the U.K.
net deferred  tax assets recognized at the time the tax rate
decreases were originally enacted. Accordingly , during the third
quarter of 2020, the Corporation recorded an income tax benefit
of approxim ately $700 million along with a corresponding
increase to the U.K. net deferred tax assets.
The effectiv e tax rate for 2019 included net tax benefits
primarily related to the resolution of various tax controversy
matters.
Absent unus ual items, we expect the effective  tax rate for
2021 to be in the range of 10 – 12 percent,  reflecting tax credits
related to our ESG investment activity .
 
Balance Sheet Overview
Table 5Selected Balance Sheet Data
 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 % Change
Assets   
Cash and cash equivalents $ 380,463 $ 161,560 135 %
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell 304,058 274,597 11 
Trading account assets 198,854 229,826 (13)
Debt securities 684,850 472,197 45 
Loans and leases 927,861 983,426 (6)
Allowance for loan and lease losses (18,802) (9,416) 100 
All other assets 342,343 321,889 6 
Total assets $ 2,819,627 $ 2,434,079 16 
Liabilities
Deposits $ 1,795,480 $ 1,434,803 25 
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase 170,323 165,109 3 
Trading account liabilities 71,320 83,270 (14)
Short-term borrowings 19,321 24,204 (20)
Long-term debt 262,934 240,856 9 
All other liabilities 227,325 221,027 3 
Total liabilities 2,546,703 2,169,269 17 
Shareholders’ equity 272,924 264,810 3 
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $ 2,819,627 $ 2,434,079 16 
Assets
At December 31, 2020, total assets were approximately $2.8
trillion, up $385.5 billion from December 31, 2019. The increase
in assets was primarily due to higher cash held at central banks
that was primarily funded by deposit growth and debt securities,
partially of fset by a decline in loans and leases.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents increased $218.9 billion driven by
deposit growth .
Federal Funds Sold and Securities Borrowed or
Purchased Under Agreements to Resell
Federal funds transactio ns involve lending reserve balances on
a short-term  basis. Securities borrowed or purchased under
agreements to resell are collateralized lending transactions
utilized to accommodat e customer transactions, earn interest
rate spreads, and obtain securities for settlement and for
collateral. Federal funds sold and securitie s borrowed or
purchased under agreements to resell increased $29.5 billion
primarily due to deployment of deposit inflows.Trading Account Assets
Trading account assets consist primarily of long positions in
equity and fixed-income  securities including U.S. government
and agency securities, corporate securities and non-U.S.
sovereign debt. Trading account assets decreas ed $31.0 billion
due to a decline in inventory within Global Markets .
Debt Securities
Debt securi ties primarily include U.S. Treasu ry and agency
securities, mortgage-backed securities (MBS), principally
agency MBS , non-U.S. bonds, corporate bond s and municipal
debt. We use the debt securities portfolio primarily to manage
interest rate and liquidit y risk and to take advantage of market
conditions that create economically attractive returns on these
investments. Debt securities increased $212.7 billion primarily
driven by the deployment of deposit inflows. For more
information on debt securities, see Note 4 – Securities  to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
29 Bank of America
Loans and Leases
Loans and leases decreased $55.6 billion primarily driven by
commercial loan paydowns, lower credit card spending and
lower residential mortgages due to higher paydowns and a
decline in originations. For more information on the loan
portfolio, see Credit Risk Management on page 61.
Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses
The allowance for loan and lease losses increa sed $9.4 billion
primarily due to the weaker economic outlook related to COVID-
19 and the impact of the adoption of the new credit loss
accounting standard. For more information, see Allowance for
Credit Losses on page 76.
Liabilities
At December 31, 2020, total liabilities were approximately $2.5
trillion, up $377.4 billion from December 31, 2019, primarily due
to deposit growth.
Deposits
Deposits increased $360.7 billion primarily due to an increase in
retail and wholesale deposits.
Federal Funds Purchased and Securities Loaned or
Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase
Federal funds transactio ns involve borrowing reserve balances
on a short-term basis. Securities loaned or sold under
agreements to repurchase are collaterali zed borrowing
transactions utilized to accommodate custom er transactions,
earn interes t rate spreads and finance assets on the balance
sheet. Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold
under agreements to repurchase increased $5.2 billion primarily
driven by client activity within Global Markets .
Trading Account Liabilities
Trading account liabilities consist primarily of short positions in
equity and fixed-income securities including U.S. Treasury and
agency secu rities, corpo rate securities and non-U.S. sovereign
debt. Trading account liabilities decreased $12.0  billion primarily
due to lower levels of short positions within Global Markets .Short-term Borrowings
Short-term borrowings provide an additional funding source and
primarily consist of Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) short-term
borrowings, notes payable and various other borrowings that
generally have maturities of one year or less. Short-term
borrowings decreased $4.9 billion due to higher deposit levels.
For more information on short-term borrowings,  see Note 10 –
Federal Funds Sold or Purchased, Securities Financing
Agreements, Short-term Borrowings and Restricted Cash  to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Long-term Debt
Long-term debt increased $22.1 billion primarily due to debt
issuances and valuation adjustments, partially offset by
maturities and redemptions. For more informati on on long-term
debt, see Note 11 – Long-term Debt  to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
Shareholders’ Equity
Shareholders’ equity increased $8.1 billion driven by net income,
market value increases on debt securities and issuances of
preferred and common stock, partially offset by the return of
capital to shareholders  totaling $14.7 billion through share
repurchases and common and preferred stock dividends, as well
as the impact of the adoption of the new credit loss accounting
standard and the redemption of preferred stock.
Cash Flows Overview
The Corporation’ s operating assets and liabilities support our
global markets and lending activities. We believe that cash flows
from operations, available cash balances and our ability to
generate cash through short- and long-term debt are sufficient to
fund our operating liquidity needs. Our investing activities
primarily include the debt securities portfolio and loans and
leases. Our financing activities reflect cash flows primarily
related to customer deposits, securities financing agreements
and long-term debt. For more information on liquidity , see
Liquidity Risk on page 57.
 
Bank of America 30
Supplemental Financial Data
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In this Form 10-K, we present certain non-GAAP financial
measures. Non-GAAP financial measures exclude certain items
or otherwise include components that differ from the most
directly comparable measures calculated in accordance with
GAAP . Non- GAAP financ ial measures are provided as additional
useful information to assess our financial condition, results of
operations (including period-to-period operating performance) or
compliance with prospective regulatory requir ements. These
non-GAAP financial measures are not intended as a substitute
for GAAP financial measures and may not be defined or
calculated the same way as non-GAAP financial measures used
by other companies.
We view net interest income and related ratios and analyses
on an FTE basis, which when presented on a consolidated basis
are non-GAAP financial measures. To derive the FTE basis, net
interest income is adjusted to reflect tax-exempt income on an
equivalent before-tax basis with a correspond ing increase in
income tax expense. For purposes of this calculation, we use
the federal statutory tax rate of 21 percent and a representative
state tax rate. Net interest yield, which meas ures the basis
points we earn over the cost of funds, utilizes net interest
income on an FTE basis. We believe that presentation of these
items on an FTE basis allows for comparison of amounts from
both taxable and tax-exempt sources and is consistent with
industry practices.
We may present certain key performance indicators and
ratios exclud ing certain items (e.g., debit valua tion adjustment
(DVA) gains (losses)) which result in non-GAAP financial
measures. We believe that the presentation of measures that
exclude these items is useful because such measures provide
additional information to assess the underlying operational
performance and trends of our businesses and to allow better
comparison of period-to-period operating performance.
We also evaluate our business based on certa in ratios that
utilize tangible equity , a non-GAAP financial measure. Tangible
equity repres ents shareh olders’ equity or commo n shareholders’
equity reduc ed by goodwill and intangible assets (excluding
mortgage servicing rights (MSRs)), net of related deferred tax
liabilities ("adjusted" shareholders' equity or common
shareholders' equity). These measures are used to evaluate our
use of equity . In addition, profitability , relationship and
investment models use both return on average tangible common
shareholders’ equity and return on average tangibleshareholders’ equity as key measures to support our overall
growth objectives. These ratios are as follows:
●    Return on average tangible common share holders’ equity
measures our net income applicable to common
shareholders as a perce ntage of adjusted average common
shareholders’ equity . The tangible common equity ratio
represents adjusted ending common shareholders’ equity
divided by total tangible assets.
●    Return on average tangible shareholders' equity measures
our net income as a percentage of adjusted average total
shareholders’ equity . The tangible equity ratio represents
adjusted ending shareho lders’ equity divided by total tangible
assets.
●    Tangible book value per common share repre sents adjusted
ending common shareholders’ equity divided  by ending
common shares outstanding.
We believe ratios utilizing tangible equity provide additional
useful information because they present measures of those
assets that can generate income. Tangible book value per
common share provides additional useful information about the
level of tangible assets  in relation to outstanding shares of
common stock.
The aforementioned supplemental data and performance
measures are presented in T ables 6 and 7.
For more information on the reconciliation of these non-
GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP financial
measures, see Non-GAAP Reconciliations on page 88.
Key Performance Indicators
We present certain key financial and nonfinancial performance
indicators (key performa nce indicators) that management uses
when assessing our consolidated and/or segment results. We
believe they are useful to investors because they provide
additional information about our underlyin g operational
performance and trends. These key performance indicators
(KPIs) may not be defined or calculated in the same way as
similar KPIs used by other companies. For information on how
these metrics are defined, see Key Metrics on page 173.
Our consolidated key performance indicators, which include
various equity and credit metrics, are presented in Table 1 on
page 27 and/or T ables 6 and 7 on pages 32 and 33.
For information on key segment performance metrics, see
Business Segment Operations on page 36.
31 Bank of America
Table 6Five-year Summary of Selected Financial
Data
(In millions, except per share information) 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Income statement    
Net interest income $ 43,360 $ 48,891 $ 48,162 $ 45,239 $ 41,486 
Noninterest income 42,168 42,353 42,858 41,887 42,012 
Total revenue, net of interest expense 85,528 91,244 91,020 87,126 83,498 
Provision for credit losses 11,320 3,590 3,282 3,396 3,597 
Noninterest expense 55,213 54,900 53,154 54,517 54,880 
Income before income taxes 18,995 32,754 34,584 29,213 25,021 
Income tax expense 1,101 5,324 6,437 10,981 7,199 
Net income 17,894 27,430 28,147 18,232 17,822 
Net income applicable to common shareholders 16,473 25,998 26,696 16,618 16,140 
Average common shares issued and outstanding 8,753.2 9,390.5 10,096.5 10,195.6 10,248.1 
Average diluted common shares issued and outstanding 8,796.9 9,442.9 10,236.9 10,778.4 11,046.8 
Performance ratios    
Return on average assets 0.67 % 1.14 % 1.21 % 0.80 % 0.81 %
Return on average common shareholders’ equity 6.76 10.62 11.04 6.72 6.69 
Return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity 9.48 14.86 15.55 9.41 9.51 
Return on average shareholders’ equity 6.69 10.24 10.63 6.72 6.70 
Return on average tangible shareholders’ equity 9.07 13.85 14.46 9.08 9.17 
Total ending equity to total ending assets 9.68 10.88 11.27 11.71 12.17 
Total average equity to total average assets 9.96 11.14 11.39 11.96 12.14 
Dividend payout 38.18 23.65 20.31 24.24 15.94 
Per common share data    
Earnings $ 1.88 $ 2.77 $ 2.64 $ 1.63 $ 1.57 
Diluted earnings 1.87 2.75 2.61 1.56 1.49 
Dividends paid 0.72 0.66 0.54 0.39 0.25 
Book value 28.72 27.32 25.13 23.80 23.97 
Tangible book value 20.60 19.41 17.91 16.96 16.89 
Market capitalization $ 262,206 $ 311,209 $ 238,251 $ 303,681 $ 222,163 
Average balance sheet    
Total loans and leases $ 982,467 $ 958,416 $ 933,049 $ 918,731 $ 900,433 
Total assets 2,683,122 2,405,830 2,325,246 2,268,633 2,190,218 
Total deposits 1,632,998 1,380,326 1,314,941 1,269,796 1,222,561 
Long-term debt 220,440 201,623 200,399 194,882 204,826 
Common shareholders’ equity 243,685 244,853 241,799 247,101 241,187 
Total shareholders’ equity 267,309 267,889 264,748 271,289 265,843 
Asset quality    
Allowance for credit losses $ 20,680 $ 10,229 $ 10,398 $ 11,170 $ 11,999 
Nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties 5,116 3,837 5,244 6,758 8,084 
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and
leases outstanding 2.04 % 0.97 % 1.02 % 1.12 % 1.26 %
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total
nonperforming loans and leases 380 265 194 161 149 
Net charge-offs $ 4,121 $ 3,648 $ 3,763 $ 3,979 $ 3,821 
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding0.42 % 0.38 % 0.41 % 0.44 % 0.43 %
Capital ratios at year end    
Common equity tier 1 capital 11.9 % 11.2 % 11.6 % 11.5 % 10.8 %
Tier 1 capital 13.5 12.6 13.2 13.0 12.4 
Total capital 16.1 14.7 15.1 14.8 14.2 
Tier 1 leverage 7.4 7.9 8.4 8.6 8.8 
Supplementary leverage ratio 7.2 6.4 6.8             n/a             n/a
Tangible equity 7.4 8.2 8.6 8.9 9.2 
Tangible common equity 6.5 7.3 7.6 7.9 8.0 
For definitions, see Key Metrics on page 173
Tangible equity ratios and tangible book value per share of common stock are non-GAAP financial measures. For more information on these  ratios and corresponding reconciliations to GAAP
financial measures, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 31 and Non-GAAP Reconciliations on page 88.
Asset quality metrics include $75 million of non-U.S. consumer credit card net charge-of fs in 2017 and $243 million of non-U.S. consumer credit card allowance for loan and lease losses, $9.2
billion of non-U.S. consumer credit card loans and $175 million of non-U.S. consumer credit card net charge-of fs in 2016. The Corporation sold its non-U.S. consumer credit card business in 2017.
Includes the allowance for loan and leases losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments.
Balances and ratios do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option. For additional exclusions from nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties, see Consumer Portfolio
Credit Risk Manag ement – Nonperforming Consumer Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity on page 67 and corresponding Table 28 and Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management
– Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity on page 71 and corresponding T able 35.
Basel 3 transition provisions for regulatory capital adjustments and deductions were fully phased-in as of January 1, 2018. Prior periods are presented on a fully phased-in basis. For additional
information, including which approach is used to assess capital adequacy , see Capital Management on page 50.
n/a = not applicable(1)
(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
 (3)
(4)
(5)
(5)
(5)
(5)
(6)
(2)
(2)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
Bank of America 32
Table
7 Selected Quarterly Financial Data
2020 Quarters 2019 Quarters
(In millions, except per share information) Fourth Third Second First Fourth Third Second First
Income statement    
Net interest income $ 10,253  $ 10,129 $ 10,848 $ 12,130 $ 12,140 $ 12,187 $ 12,189 $ 12,375 
Noninterest income 9,846  10,207 11,478 10,637 10,209 10,620 10,895 10,629 
Total revenue, net of interest expense 20,099  20,336 22,326 22,767 22,349 22,807 23,084 23,004 
Provision for credit losses 53 1,389 5,117 4,761 941 779 857 1,013 
Noninterest expense 13,927  14,401 13,410 13,475 13,239 15,169 13,268 13,224 
Income before income taxes 6,119  4,546 3,799 4,531 8,169 6,859 8,959 8,767 
Income tax expense 649 (335) 266 521 1,175 1,082 1,611 1,456 
Net income 5,470  4,881 3,533 4,010 6,994 5,777 7,348 7,311 
Net income applicable to common shareholders 5,208  4,440 3,284 3,541 6,748 5,272 7,109 6,869 
Average common shares issued and outstanding 8,724.9  8,732.9 8,739.9 8,815.6 9,017.1 9,303.6 9,523.2 9,725.9 
Average diluted common shares issued and
outstanding 8,785.0  8,777.5 8,768.1 8,862.7 9,079.5 9,353.0 9,559.6 9,787.3 
Performance ratios       
Return on average assets 0.78 % 0.71 % 0.53 % 0.65 % 1.13 % 0.95 % 1.23 % 1.26 %
Four-quarter trailing return on average assets 0.67 0.75 0.81 0.99 1.14 1.17 1.24 1.22 
Return on average common shareholders’ equity 8.39 7.24 5.44 5.91 11.00 8.48 11.62 11.42 
Return on average tangible common shareholders’
equity 11.73  10.16 7.63 8.32 15.43 11.84 16.24 16.01 
Return on average shareholders’ equity 8.03 7.26 5.34 6.10 10.40 8.48 11.00 11.14 
Return on average tangible shareholders’ equity 10.84  9.84 7.23 8.29 14.09 11.43 14.88 15.10 
Total ending equity to total ending assets 9.68 9.82 9.69 10.11 10.88 11.06 11.33 11.23 
Total average equity to total average assets 9.71 9.76 9.85 10.60 10.89 11.21 11.17 11.28 
Dividend payout 30.11  35.36 47.87 44.57 23.90 31.48 19.95 21.20 
Per common share data       
Earnings $ 0.60 $ 0.51 $ 0.38 $ 0.40 $ 0.75 $ 0.57 $ 0.75 $ 0.71 
Diluted earnings 0.59 0.51 0.37 0.40 0.74 0.56 0.74 0.70 
Dividends paid 0.18 0.18 0.18 0.18 0.18 0.18 0.15 0.15 
Book value 28.72  28.33 27.96 27.84 27.32 26.96 26.41 25.57 
Tangible book value 20.60  20.23 19.90 19.79 19.41 19.26 18.92 18.26 
Market capitalization $262,206  $208,656 $205,772 $184,181 $311,209 $264,842 $270,935 $263,992 
Average balance sheet       
Total loans and leases $934,798  $974,018 $1,031,387 $990,283 $973,986 $964,733 $950,525 $944,020 
Total assets 2,791,874  2,739,684 2,704,186 2,494,928 2,450,005 2,412,223 2,399,051 2,360,992 
Total deposits 1,737,139  1,695,488 1,658,197 1,439,336 1,410,439 1,375,052 1,375,450 1,359,864 
Long-term debt 225,423  224,254 221,167 210,816 206,026 202,620 201,007 196,726 
Common shareholders’ equity 246,840  243,896 242,889 241,078 243,439 246,630 245,438 243,891 
Total shareholders’ equity 271,020  267,323 266,316 264,534 266,900 270,430 267,975 266,217 
Asset quality      
Allowance for credit losses $ 20,680  $ 21,506 $ 21,091 $ 17,126 $ 10,229 $ 10,242 $ 10,333 $ 10,379 
Nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed
properties 5,116  4,730 4,611 4,331 3,837 3,723 4,452 5,145 
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage
of total loans and leases outstanding 2.04 % 2.07 % 1.96 % 1.51 % 0.97 % 0.98 % 1.00 % 1.02 %
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage
of total nonperforming loans and leases 380 431 441 389 265 271 228 197 
Net charge-of fs $ 881 $ 972 $ 1,146 $ 1,122 $ 959 $ 811 $ 887 $ 991 
Annualized net charge-of fs as a percentage of
average loans and leases outstanding 0.38 % 0.40 % 0.45 % 0.46 % 0.39 % 0.34 % 0.38 % 0.43 %
Capital ratios at period end      
Common equity tier 1 capital 11.9 % 11.9 % 11.4 % 10.8 % 11.2 % 11.4 % 11.7 % 11.6 %
Tier 1 capital 13.5 13.5 12.9 12.3 12.6 12.9 13.3 13.1 
Total capital 16.1 16.1 14.8 14.6 14.7 15.1 15.4 15.2 
Tier 1 leverage 7.4 7.4 7.4 7.9 7.9 8.2 8.4 8.4 
Supplementary leverage ratio 7.2 6.9 7.1 6.4 6.4 6.6 6.8 6.8 
Tangible equity 7.4 7.4 7.3 7.7 8.2 8.4 8.7 8.5 
Tangible common equity 6.5 6.6 6.5 6.7 7.3 7.4 7.6 7.6 
Total loss-absorbing capacity and long-term debt
metrics
Total loss-absorbing capacity to risk-weighted
assets 27.4 % 26.9 % 26.0 % 24.6 % 24.6 % 24.8 % 25.5 % 24.8 %
Total loss-absorbing capacity to supplementary
leverage exposure 14.5 13.7 14.2 12.8 12.5 12.7 13.0 12.8 
Eligible long-term debt to risk-weighted assets 13.3 12.9 12.4 11.6 11.5 11.4 11.8 11.4 
Eligible long-term debt to supplementary leverage
exposure 7.1 6.6 6.7 6.1 5.8 5.8 6.0 5.9 
For definitions, see Key Metrics on page 173.
Calculated as total net income for four consecutive quarters divided by annualized average assets for four consecutive quarters.
Tangible equity ratios and tangible book value per share of common stock are non-GAAP financial measures. For more information on these  ratios and corresponding reconciliations to GAAP
financial measures, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 31 and Non-GAAP Reconciliations on page 88.
Includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments.(1)
 (2)
(1)
 (3)
(1)
 (3)
(1)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(5)
(5)
(5)
(6)
 (3)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Balances and ratios do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option. For additional exclusions from nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties, see Consumer Portfolio
Credit Risk Manag ement – Nonperforming Consumer Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity on page 68 and corresponding Table 28 and Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management
– Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity on page 72 and corresponding T able 35.
For more information, including which approach is used to assess capital adequacy , see Capital Management on page 50.(5)
(6)
33 Bank of America
Table 8Average Balances and Interest Rates - FTE Basis
Average
 BalanceInterest
 Income/
 Expense Yield/
 RateAverage
 BalanceInterest
 Income/
 ExpenseYield/
 RateAverage
 BalanceInterest
 Income/
 ExpenseYield/
 Rate
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Earning assets          
Interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve,
non- 
U.S. central banks and other banks $ 253,227  $ 359 0.14 % $ 125,555 $ 1,823 1.45 % $ 139,848 $ 1,926 1.38 %
Time deposits placed and other short-term
investments 8,840  29 0.33 9,427 207 2.19 9,446 216 2.29 
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or
purchased 
 under agreements to resell 309,945  903 0.29 279,610 4,843 1.73 251,328 3,176 1.26 
Trading account assets 148,076  4,185  2.83 148,076 5,269 3.56 132,724 4,901 3.69 
Debt securities 532,266  9,868  1.87 450,090 11,917 2.65 437,312 11,837 2.66 
Loans and leases          
Residential mortgage 236,719  7,338  3.10 220,552 7,651 3.47 207,523 7,294 3.51 
Home equity 38,251  1,290  3.37 44,600 2,194 4.92 53,886 2,573 4.77 
Credit card 85,017  8,759  10.30  94,488 10,166 10.76 94,612 9,579 10.12 
Direct/Indirect and other consumer 89,974  2,545  2.83 90,656 3,261 3.60 93,036 3,104 3.34 
Total consumer 449,961  19,932  4.43 450,296 23,272 5.17 449,057 22,550 5.02 
U.S. commercial 344,095  9,712  2.82 321,467 13,161 4.09 304,387 11,937 3.92 
Non-U.S. commercial 106,487  2,208  2.07 103,918 3,402 3.27 97,664 3,220 3.30 
Commercial real estate 63,428  1,790  2.82 62,044 2,741 4.42 60,384 2,618 4.34 
Commercial lease financing 18,496  559 3.02 20,691 718 3.47 21,557 698 3.24 
Total commercial 532,506  14,269  2.68 508,120 20,022 3.94 483,992 18,473 3.82 
Total loans and leases 982,467  34,201  3.48 958,416 43,294 4.52 933,049 41,023 4.40 
Other earning assets 83,078  2,539  3.06 69,089 4,478 6.48 76,524 4,300 5.62 
Total earning assets 2,317,899  52,084  2.25 2,040,263 71,831 3.52 1,980,231 67,379 3.40 
Cash and due from banks 31,885   26,193  25,830  
Other assets, less allowance for loan and lease
losses 333,338    339,374   319,185   
Total assets $2,683,122    $2,405,830   $2,325,246   
Interest-bearing liabilities          
U.S. interest-bearing deposits          
Savings $ 58,113  $ 6 0.01 % $ 52,020 $ 5 0.01 % $ 54,226 $ 6 0.01 %
Demand and money market deposit accounts 829,719  977 0.12 741,126 4,471 0.60 676,382 2,636 0.39 
Consumer CDs and IRAs 47,780  405 0.85 47,577 471 0.99 39,823 157 0.39 
Negotiable CDs, public funds and other deposits 64,857  323 0.50 66,866 1,407 2.11 50,593 991 1.96 
Total U.S. interest-bearing deposits 1,000,469  1,711  0.17 907,589 6,354 0.70 821,024 3,790 0.46 
Non-U.S. interest-bearing deposits          
Banks located in non-U.S. countries 1,476  4 0.27 1,936 20 1.04 2,312 39 1.69 
Governments and of ficial institutions 184 — 0.01 181 — 0.05 810 — 0.01 
Time, savings and other 75,386  228 0.30 69,351 814 1.17 65,097 666 1.02 
Total non-U.S. interest-bearing deposits 77,046  232 0.30 71,468 834 1.17 68,219 705 1.03 
Total interest-bearing deposits 1,077,515  1,943  0.18 979,057 7,188 0.73 889,243 4,495 0.51 
Federal funds purchased, securities loaned or sold
under
 agreements to repurchase, short-term borrowings and
 other interest-bearing liabilities 293,466  987 0.34 276,432 7,208 2.61 269,748 5,839 2.17 
Trading account liabilities 41,386  974 2.35 45,449 1,249 2.75 50,928 1,358 2.67 
Long-term debt 220,440  4,321  1.96 201,623 6,700 3.32 200,399 6,915 3.45 
Total interest-bearing liabilities 1,632,807  8,225  0.50 1,502,561 22,345 1.49 1,410,318 18,607 1.32 
Noninterest-bearing sources          
Noninterest-bearing deposits 555,483    401,269   425,698   
Other liabilities 227,523    234,111   224,482   
Shareholders’ equity 267,309    267,889   264,748   
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $2,683,122    $2,405,830   $2,325,246   
Net interest spread   1.75 %   2.03 %   2.08 %
Impact of noninterest-bearing sources   0.15   0.40   0.37 
Net interest income/yield on earning assets  $ 43,859  1.90 %  $49,486 2.43 %  $ 48,772 2.45 %
Includes the impact of interest rate risk management contracts. For more information, see Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book on page 82.
Nonperforming loans are included in the respective average loan balances. Income on these nonperforming loans is generally recognized on a cost recovery basis.
Includes non-U.S. consumer loans of $2.9 billion, $2.9 billion and $2.8 billion for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively .
Certain prior-period amounts for 2019 have been reclassified to conform to current-period presentation.
Includes U.S. commercial real estate loans of $59.8 billion, $57.3 billion and $56.4 billion, and non-U.S. commercial real estate loans of $3.6 billion, $4.7 billion and $4.0 billion for 2020, 2019 and
2018, respectively .
Includes $34.3 billion, $35.5 billion and $30.4 billion of structured notes and liabilities for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively .
Net interest income includes FTE adjustments of $499 million, $595 million and $610 million for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively .(1)  (1)  (1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
 (4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
Bank of America 34
Table 9Analysis of Changes in Net Interest Income - FTE Basis
 Due to Change in 
Net ChangeDue to Change in 
Net Change Volume Rate Volume Rate
(Dollars in millions) From 2019 to 2020 From 2018 to 2019
Increase (decrease) in interest income       
Interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve, non-U.S. central banks and other
banks $ 1,849 $(3,313)$ (1,464)$ (193)$ 90 $ (103)
Time deposits placed and other short-term investments (13) (165) (178) — (9) (9)
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell 519 (4,459) (3,940) 347 1,320 1,667 
Trading account assets 3 (1,087) (1,084) 563 (195) 368 
Debt securities 2,188 (4,237) (2,049) 135 (55) 80 
Loans and leases   
Residential mortgage 563 (876) (313) 447 (90) 357 
Home equity (312) (592) (904) (446) 67 (379)
Credit card (1,018) (389) (1,407) (17) 604 587 
Direct/Indirect and other consumer (22) (694) (716) (76) 233 157 
Total consumer   (3,340)   722 
U.S. commercial 912 (4,361) (3,449) 665 559 1,224 
Non-U.S. commercial 80 (1,274) (1,194) 209 (27) 182 
Commercial real estate 63 (1,014) (951) 75 48 123 
Commercial lease financing (76) (83) (159) (28) 48 20 
Total commercial   (5,753)   1,549 
Total loans and leases   (9,093)   2,271 
Other earning assets 905 (2,844) (1,939) (417) 595 178 
Net increase (decrease) in interest income   $ (19,747)   $ 4,452 
Increase (decrease) in interest expense       
U.S. interest-bearing deposits       
Savings $ 1 $ — $ 1 $ (1)$ — $ (1)
Demand and money market deposit accounts 507 (4,001) (3,494) 254 1,581 1,835 
Consumer CDs and IRAs 2 (68) (66) 29 285 314 
Negotiable CDs, public funds and other deposits (39) (1,045) (1,084) 320 96 416 
Total U.S. interest-bearing deposits   (4,643)   2,564 
Non-U.S. interest-bearing deposits       
Banks located in non-U.S. countries (5) (11) (16) (6) (13) (19)
Time, savings and other 68 (654) (586) 41 107 148 
Total non-U.S. interest-bearing deposits   (602)   129 
Total interest-bearing deposits   (5,245)   2,693 
Federal funds purchased, securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase,
short-term borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities 451 (6,672) (6,221) 160 1,209 1,369 
Trading account liabilities (111) (164) (275) (145) 36 (109)
Long-term debt 619 (2,998) (2,379) 41 (256) (215)
Net increase (decrease) in interest expense   (14,120)   3,738 
Net increase (decrease) in net interest income   $ (5,627)   $ 714 
The changes for each category of interest income and expense are divided between the portion of change attributable to the variance in volume and the portion of change attributable to the
variance in rate for that category . The unallocated change in rate or volume variance is allocated between the rate and volume variances.
Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-period presentation.
Includes changes in FTE basis adjustments of a $96 million decrease from 2019 to 2020 and a $15 million decrease from 2018 to 2019.(1) (1)
(2)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
35 Bank of America
Business Segment Operations
Segment Description and Basis of Presentation
We report our results of operations through four business segments: Consumer Banking, GWIM, Global Banking and Global
Markets , with the remaining operations recorded in All Other . We manag e our segments and report their results on an FTE basis.
The primary activities, products and businesses of the business segments and  All Other  are shown below .
We periodically review capital allocated to our businesses
and allocate capital annually during the strategic and capital
planning processes. We utilize a methodology that considers the
effect of regulatory capital requirements in addition to internal
risk-based capital models. Our internal risk-based capital models
use a risk-a djusted methodology incorporating each segment’ s
credit, market, interest rate, business and operational risk
components. For more information on the nature of these risks,
see Managi ng Risk on page 47. The capital allocated to the
business segments is referred to as allocated capital. Allocated
equity in the reporting units is comprised of allocated capital plus
capital for the portion of goodwill and intangibles specifically
assigned to the reporting unit. For more information, including
the definitio n of a reporting unit, see Note 7 – Goodwill and
Intangible Assets  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.For more information on our presentation of financial
information on an FTE basis, see Supplemental Financial Data
on page 31, and for reconciliations to consolidated total revenue,
net income and period-e nd total assets, see Note 23 – Business
Segment Information  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Key Performance Indicators
We present certain key financial and nonfinancial performance
indicators that management uses when evaluating segment
results. We believe they are useful to investors because they
provide additional information about our segments’ operational
performance, customer trends and business growth.
Bank of America 36
Consumer Banking
Deposits Consumer Lending Total Consumer Banking
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 % Change
Net interest income $ 13,739 $ 16,904 $ 10,959 $ 11,254 $ 24,698 $ 28,158 (12)%
Noninterest income:
Card income (20) (33) 4,693 5,117 4,673 5,084 (8)
Service charges 3,416 4,216 1 2 3,417 4,218 (19)
All other income 310 833 164 294 474 1,127 (58)
Total noninterest income 3,706 5,016 4,858 5,413 8,564 10,429 (18)
Total revenue, net of interest expense 17,445 21,920 15,817 16,667 33,262 38,587 (14)
Provision for credit losses 379 269 5,386 3,503 5,765 3,772 53 
Noninterest expense 11,508 10,718 7,370 6,928 18,878 17,646 7 
Income before income taxes 5,558 10,933 3,061 6,236 8,619 17,169 (50)
Income tax expense 1,362 2,679 750 1,528 2,112 4,207 (50)
Net income $ 4,196 $ 8,254 $ 2,311 $ 4,708 $ 6,507 $ 12,962 (50)
Effective tax rate 24.5 % 24.5 %
Net interest yield 1.69 % 2.40 % 3.53 % 3.80 % 2.88 3.81 
Return on average allocated capital 35 69 9 19 17 35 
Efficiency ratio 65.97 48.90 46.60 41.56 56.76 45.73 
Balance
Sheet
Average
Total loans and leases $ 5,144 $ 5,371 $ 310,436 $ 295,562 $ 315,580 $ 300,933 5 %
Total earning assets 813,779 703,481 310,862 296,051 858,724 738,807 16 
Total assets 849,924 735,298 314,599 306,169 898,606 780,742 15 
Total deposits 816,968 702,972 6,698 5,368 823,666 708,340 16 
Allocated capital 12,000 12,000 26,500 25,000 38,500 37,000 4 
Year end
Total loans and leases $ 4,673 $ 5,467 $ 295,261 $ 311,942 $ 299,934 $ 317,409 (6)%
Total earning assets 899,951 724,573 295,627 312,684 945,343 760,174 24 
Total assets 939,629 758,459 299,186 322,717 988,580 804,093 23 
Total deposits 906,092 725,665 6,560 5,080 912,652 730,745 25 
Estimated at the segment level only .
In segments and businesses where the total of liabilities and equity exce eds assets, we allocate assets from All Other  to match the segm ents’ and businesses’ liabilities and allocated shareho lders’
equity . As a result, total earning assets and total assets of the businesses may not equal total Consumer Banking .
Consumer Banking,  which is comprised of Deposits and
Consumer Lending, offers a diversified range of credit, banking
and investment products and services to consumers and small
businesses. Deposits and Consumer Lending include the net
impact of migrating customers and their related deposit,
brokerage asset and loan balances between Deposits,
Consumer Lending and GWIM , as well as other client-managed
businesses. Our customers and clients have access to a coast
to coast network includin g financial centers in 38 states and the
District of Columbia. Our network includes approximately 4,300
financial centers, appro ximately 17,000 ATMS, nationwide call
centers and leading digital banking platforms with more than
39 million active users, including approximately 31 million active
mobile users .
Consumer Banking Results.
Net income for Consumer Banking  decreased $6.5 billion to $6.5
billion in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to lower revenue,
higher provision for credit losses and higher expenses. Net
interest income decreased $3.5 billion to $24.7 billionprimarily due to lower rates, partially offset by the benefit of
higher deposit and loan balances. Noninterest income
decreased $1.9 billion to $8.6 billion driven by a decline in
service charges primarily due to higher deposit balances and
lower card income due to decreased client activity , as well as
lower other income due to the allocation of asset and liability
management (ALM) results.
The provisio n for credit losses increased $2.0 billion to $5.8
billion prima rily due to the weaker economic outlook related to
COVID-19. Noninterest expense increased $1.2 billion to $18.9
billion prima rily driven by incremental expense to support
customers and employe es during the pandemic , as well as the
cost of increased client activity and continued investments for
business growth, including the merchant services platform.
The return on average allocated capital was 17 percent,
down from 35 percent, driven by lower net income and, to a
lesser exten t, an increase in allocated capital. For information on
capital allocated to the business segments, see Business
Segment Operations on page 36.
 (1)
 (2)
(2)
(2)
 (2)
(1)
(2)
37 Bank of America
Deposits
Deposits includes the results of consumer deposit activities
which consist of a comprehensive range of products provided to
consumers and small businesses. Our deposit products include
traditional savings accounts, money market savings accounts,
CDs and IRAs, and noninterest- and interest-bearing checking
accounts, as well as investment accounts and products. Net
interest income is allocated to the deposit products using our
funds transfer pricing process that matches assets and liabilities
with similar interest rate sensitivity and maturity  characteristics.
Deposits generates fees such as account service fees, non-
sufficient funds fees, overdraft charges and ATM fees, as well as
investment and brokerage fees from Merrill Edge accounts.
Merrill Edge is an integrated investing and banking service
targeted at customers with less than $250,000 in investable
assets. Merrill Edge provides investment advice  and guidance,
client brokerage asset services, a self-directed online investing
platform and key banking capabilities including access to the
Corporation’ s network of financial centers and A TMs.
Net income for Deposits  decreased $4.1 billion to $4.2 billion
primarily driven by lower revenue. Net interest income declined
$3.2 billion to $13.7 billion primarily due to lower interest rates,
partially offset by the benefit of growth in deposits. Noninterest
income decreased $1.3 billion to $3.7 billion primarily driven by
lower service charges due to higher deposit balances and lower
client activity related to the impact of COVID-19, as well as lower
other income due to the allocation of ALM results.
The provision for credit losses increased $110 million to $379
million in 2020 due to the weaker economic outlook related to
COVID-19. Noninterest expense increased $790  million to $11.5
billion driven by continued investments in the business and
incremental expense to support customers and employees
during the pandemic.
Average deposits increased $114.0 billion to $817.0 billion in
2020 driven by strong organic growth of $79.3 billion in checking
and time deposits and $34.4 billion in tradition al savings and
money market savings.The following table provides key performance indicators for
Deposits. Management uses these metrics, and we believe they
are useful to investo rs because they provide additional
information to evaluate our deposit profitability and digital/mobile
trends.
Key Statistics – Deposits
2020 2019
Total deposit spreads (excludes noninterest costs) 1.94% 2.34%
Year End
Consumer investment assets (in millions) $306,104 $240,132
Active digital banking users (units in thousands) 39,315 38,266
Active mobile banking users (units in thousands) 30,783 29,174
Financial centers 4,312 4,300
ATMs 16,904 16,788
Includes deposits held in Consumer Lending.
Includes client brokerage assets, deposit sweep balances and AUM in Consumer Banking .
Active digital banking users represents mobile and/or online users at period end.
Active mobile banking users represents mobile users at period end.
Consumer investment assets increased $66.0 billion in 2020
driven by market performance and client flows. Active mobile
banking users increased approximately two million reflecting
continuing changes in our customers’ banking preferences. We
had a net increase of 12 financial centers as we continued to
optimize our consumer banking network.
Consumer Lending
Consumer Lending offers products to consumers and small
businesses across the U.S. The products offered include credit
and debit cards, residential mortgages and home equity loans,
and direct and indirect loans such as automotive, recreational
vehicle and consumer personal loans. In addition to earning net
interest spread revenue on its lending activities, Consumer
Lending generates interchange revenue from credit and debit
card transactions, late fees, cash advance fees, annual credit
card fees, mortgage banking fee income and other
miscellaneous fees. Consumer Lending produc ts are available
to our customers through our retail network, direct telephone,
and online and mobile channels. Consumer Lending results also
include the impact of servicing residential mortgages and home
equity loans in the core portfolio, including loans held on the
balance sheet of Consumer Lending and loans serviced for
others.
 (1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Bank of America 38
Net income for Consumer Lending was $2.3 billion, a
decrease of $2.4 billion, primarily due to higher provision for
credit losses. Net interest income declined $295 million to $11.0
billion primarily due to lower interest rates, partially of fset by loan
growth. Noninterest income decreased $555 million to $4.9
billion primarily driven by lower card income due to lower client
activity , as well as lower other income due to the allocation of
ALM results.
The provisio n for credit losses increased $1.9 billion to $5.4
billion prima rily due to the weaker economic outlook related to
COVID-19. Noninterest expense increased $442  million to $7.4
billion primarily driven by investments in the business and
incremental expense to support customers and employees
during the pandemic.
Average loans increased $14.9 billion to $310.4 billion
primarily driven by an increase in residential mortgages and
PPP loans, partially of fset by a decline in credit cards.
The following table provides key performance indicators for
Consumer Lending. Management uses these metrics, and we
believe they are useful to investors because they provide
additional information about loan growth and profitability .
Key Statistics – Consumer Lending
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Total credit card 
Gross interest yield 10.27 % 10.76 %
Risk-adjusted margin 9.16 8.28 
New accounts (in thousands) 2,505 4,320 
Purchase volumes $ 251,599 $ 277,852 
Debit card purchase volumes $ 384,503 $ 360,672 
Includes GWIM's credit card portfolio.
Calculated as the ef fective annual percentage rate divided by average loans.
Calculated as the difference betwee n total revenue, net of interest expense, and net credit
losses divided by average loans.During 2020, the total risk-adjusted margin increased 88 bps
compared to 2019 driven by a lower mix of customer balances at
promotional rates, the lower interest rate environment and lower
net credit losses. Total credit card purchase volumes declined
$26.3 billion to $251.6  billion. The decline in credit card
purchase volumes was driven by the impact of COVID-19. While
overall spending improved during the second half of 2020,
spending for travel and entertainment remained lower compared
to 2019. During 2020, debit card purchase volumes increased
$23.8 billion to $384.5 billion, despite COVID-19 impacts. Debit
card purchase volumes improved in the second half of 2020 as
businesses reopened and spending improved.
Key Statistics – Residential Mortgage Loan
Production 
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Consumer Banking:
First mortgage $ 43,197 $ 49,179 
Home equity 6,930 9,755 
Total :
First mortgage $ 69,086 $ 72,467 
Home equity 8,160 11,131 
The loan production amounts repres ent the unpaid principal balance of loans and, in the case
of home equity , the principal amount of the total line of credit.
In addition to loan production in Consumer Banking , there is also first mortgage and home
equity loan production in GWIM.
First mortga ge loan originations in Consumer Banking and
for the total Corporation decreased $6.0 billion and $3.4 billion in
2020 prima rily driven  by a decline in nonconforming
applications.
Home equity production in Consumer Banking  and for the
total Corpora tion decreased $2.8 billion and $3.0 billion in 2020
primarily driven by a decline in applications.(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
39 Bank of America
Global W ealth & Investment Management
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 % Change
Net interest income $ 5,468 $ 6,504 (16)%
Noninterest income:
Investment and brokerage services 12,270 11,870 3 
All other income 846 1,164 (27)
Total noninterest income 13,116 13,034 1 
Total revenue, net of interest expense 18,584 19,538 (5)
Provision for credit losses 357 82 n/m
Noninterest expense 14,154 13,825 2 
Income before income taxes 4,073 5,631 (28)
Income tax expense 998 1,380 (28)
Net income $ 3,075 $ 4,251 (28)
Effective tax rate 24.5 % 24.5 %
Net interest yield 1.73 2.33 
Return on average allocated capital 21 29 
Efficiency ratio 76.16 70.76 
Balance Sheet
Average
Total loans and leases $ 183,402 $ 168,910 9 %
Total earning assets 316,008 279,681 13 
Total assets 328,384 292,016 12 
Total deposits 287,123 256,516 12 
Allocated capital 15,000 14,500 3 
Year end
Total loans and leases $ 188,562 $ 176,600 7 %
Total earning assets 356,873 287,201 24 
Total assets 369,736 299,770 23 
Total deposits 322,157 263,113 22 
n/m = not meaningful
GWIM  consists of two primary businesses: Merrill Lynch Global
Wealth Management (MLGWM) and Bank of America Private
Bank.
MLGWM's advisory business provides a high-touch client
experience through a network of financial advisors focused on
clients with over $250,000 in total investable assets. MLGWM
provides tailored solutions to meet clients' needs through a full
set of investment management, brokerage , banking and
retirement products.
Bank of America Priva te Bank, together with MLGWM's
Private Wealth Management business, provides comprehensive
wealth management solutions targeted to high net worth and
ultra high net worth clients, as well as customized solutions to
meet clients' wealth structuring, investment management, trust
and banking needs, including specialty asset management
services.
Net income for GWIM  decreased $1.2 billion to $3.1 billion
primarily due to lower net interest income, higher noninterest
expense and higher provision for credit losses.
Net interest income decreased $1.0 billion to $5.5 billion due
to the impact of lower interest rates, partially offset by the benefit
of strong deposit and loan growth.Noninterest income, which primarily includes investment and
brokerage services income, increased $82 million to $13.1 billion
primarily due to higher market valuations and positive AUM
flows, largely offset by declines in AUM pricing as well as lower
other income due to the allocation of ALM results.
The provision for credit losses increased $275 million to $357
million prima rily due to the weaker economic outlook related to
COVID-19. Noninterest expense increased $329  million to $14.2
billion primarily driven by higher investments in primary sales
professionals and revenue-related incentives.
The return on average allocated capital was 21 percent,
down from 29 percent, due to lower net income and, to a lesser
extent, a small increase in allocated capital.
Average loans increased $14.5 billion to $183.4 billion
primarily driven by residential mortgage and custom lending.
Average deposits increased $30.6 billion to $287.1 billion
primarily driven by inflows resulting from client responses to
market volatility and lower spending.
MLGWM revenue of $15.3 billion decreased five percent
primarily driven by the impact of lower interest rates, partially
offset by the benefits of higher market valuations and positive
AUM flows.
Bank of America Private Bank revenue of $3.3 billion
decreased four percent primarily driven by the impact of lower
interest rates.
Bank of America 40
Key Indicators and Metrics
(Dollars in millions, except as noted) 2020 2019
Revenue by Business
Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management $ 15,292 $ 16,112 
Bank of America Private Bank 3,292 3,426 
Total revenue, net of interest expense $ 18,584 $ 19,538 
Client Balances by Business, at year end
Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management $ 2,808,340 $ 2,558,102 
Bank of America Private Bank 541,464 489,690 
Total client balances $ 3,349,804 $ 3,047,792 
Client Balances by Type, at year end
Assets under management $ 1,408,465 $ 1,275,555 
Brokerage and other assets 1,479,614 1,372,733 
Deposits 322,157 263,103 
Loans and leases 191,124 179,296 
Less: Managed deposits in assets under management (51,556) (42,895)
Total client balances $ 3,349,804 $ 3,047,792 
Assets Under Management Rollforward
Assets under management, beginning of year $ 1,275,555 $ 1,072,234 
Net client flows 19,596 24,865 
Market valuation/other 113,314 178,456 
Total assets under management, end of year $ 1,408,465 $ 1,275,555 
Associates, at year end
Number of financial advisors 17,331 17,458 
Total wealth advisors, including financial advisors 19,373 19,440 
Total primary sales professionals, including financial advisors and wealth advisors 21,213 20,586 
Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management Metric
Financial advisor productivity  (in thousands) $ 1,126 $ 1,082 
Bank of America Private Bank Metric, at year end
Primary sales professionals 1,759 1,766 
Includes margin receivables which are classified in customer and other receivables on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
For a definition, see Key Metrics on page 173.
Client Balances
Client balances managed under advisory and/or discretion of
GWIM  are AUM and are typically held in diversified portfolios.
Fees earned on AUM are calculated as a percentage of clients’
AUM balances. The asset management fees charged to clients
per year depend on various factors, but are commonly driven by
the breadth of the client’ s relationship. The net client AUM flowsrepresent the net change in clients’ AUM balances over a
specified period of time, exclu ding market
appreciation/depreciation and other adjustments.
Client balances increased $302.0 billion, or 10 percent, to
$3.3 trillion at Decembe r 31, 2020 compared to December 31,
2019. The increase in client balances was primarily due to
higher market valuations and positive client flows.(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
41 Bank of America
Global Banking
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 % Change
Net interest income $ 9,013 $ 10,675 (16)%
Noninterest income:
Service charges 3,238 3,015 7 
Investment banking fees 4,010 3,137 28 
All other income 2,726 3,656 (25)
Total noninterest income 9,974 9,808 2 
Total revenue, net of interest expense 18,987 20,483 (7)
Provision for credit losses 4,897 414 n/m
Noninterest expense 9,337 9,011 4 
Income before income taxes 4,753 11,058 (57)
Income tax expense 1,283 2,985 (57)
Net income $ 3,470 $ 8,073 (57)
Effective tax rate 27.0 % 27.0 %
Net interest yield 1.86 2.75 
Return on average allocated capital 8 20 
Efficiency ratio 49.17 43.99 
Balance Sheet
Average
Total loans and leases $ 382,264 $ 374,304 2 %
Total earning assets 485,688 388,152 25 
Total assets 542,302 443,083 22 
Total deposits 456,562 362,731 26 
Allocated capital 42,500 41,000 4 
Year end
Total loans and leases $ 339,649 $ 379,268 (10)%
Total earning assets 522,650 407,180 28 
Total assets 580,561 464,032 25 
Total deposits 493,748 383,180 29 
n/m = not meaningful
Global Banking , which includes Glob al Corporate Banking,
Global Commercial Banking, Business Banki ng and Global
Investment Banking, provides a wide range of lending-related
products and services, integrated working capital management
and treasury solutions, and underwriting and advisory services
through our network of offices and client relation ship teams. Our
lending products and services include commercial loans, leases,
commitment facilities, trade finance, commer cial real estate
lending and asset-based lending. Our treasury solutions
business includes treasury management, foreign exchange,
short-term investing options and merchant services. We also
provide investment banking products to our clients such as debt
and equity underwriting and distribution, and merger-related and
other adviso ry services. Underwriting debt and equity issuances,
fixed-income and equity research, and certain market-based
activities are execute d through our globa l broker-dealer
affiliates, which are our primary dealers in several countries.
Within Global Banking, Global Corporate Banking clients
generally include large global corporations, financial institutions
and leasing clients. Global Commercial Banking clients generally
include midd le-market companies, commercial real estate firms
and not-for-profit companies. Business Banking clients include
mid-sized U.S.-based businesses requiring customized and
integrated financial advice and solutions.
Net income for Global Banking  decreased $4.6 billion to $3.5
billion prima rily driven by higher provision for credit losses as
well as lower revenue.
Revenue decreased $1.5 billion to $19.0 billion driven by
lower net interest income. Net interest income decreased $1.7billion to $9.0 billion primarily driven by lower interest rates,
partially of fset by higher loan and deposit balances.
Noninterest income of $10.0 billion increased $166 million
driven by higher investment banking fees, partially offset by
lower valuation driven adjustments on the fair value loan
portfolio, debt securities and leveraged loans, as well as the
allocation of ALM results.
The provisio n for credit losses increased $4.5 billion to $4.9
billion prima rily due to the weaker economic outlook related to
COVID-19. Noninterest expense increased $326 million primarily
due to continued investm ents in the business, partially offset by
lower revenue-related incentives.
The return on average allocated capital was eight percent in
2020 compared to 20 percent in 2019 due to lower net income
and, to a lesser extent, an increase in allocated capital. For
information on capital allocated to the business segments, see
Business Segment Operations on page 36.
Global Corporate, Global Commercial and
Business Banking
Global Corporate, Global Commercial and Business Banking
each include Business Lending and Global Transaction Services
activities. Business Lending includes various lending-related
products and services, and related hedging activities, including
commercial loans, leases, commitment facilities , trade finance,
real estate lending and asset-based lending. Global Transaction
Services includes depos its, treasury management, credit card,
foreign exchange and short-term investment products.
Bank of America 42
The table below and following discussion present a summary of the results, which exclude certain investment banking, merchant
services and PPP activities in Global Banking .
Global Corporate, Global Commercial and Business
Banking
Global Corporate BankingGlobal Commercial
Banking Business Banking Total
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
Revenue
Business Lending $ 3,552 $ 3,994 $ 3,743 $ 4,132 $ 261 $ 363 $ 7,556 $ 8,489 
Global Transaction Services 2,986 3,994 3,169 3,499 893 1,064 7,048 8,557 
Total revenue, net of interest
expense $ 6,538 $ 7,988 $ 6,912 $ 7,631 $ 1,154 $ 1,427 $ 14,604 $ 17,046 
Balance
Sheet
Average
Total loans and leases $ 179,393 $ 177,713 $ 182,212 $ 181,485 $ 14,410 $ 15,058 $ 376,015 $ 374,256 
Total deposits 216,371 177,924 191,813 144,620 48,214 40,196 456,398 362,740 
Year end
Total loans and leases $ 153,126 $ 181,409 $ 164,641 $ 182,727 $ 13,242 $ 15,152 $ 331,009 $ 379,288 
Total deposits 233,484 185,352 207,597 157,322 52,150 40,504 493,231 383,178 
Business Lending revenue decreased $933 million in 2020
compared to 2019. The decrease was primarily driven by lower
interest rates.
Global Transaction Services revenue decreased $1.5 billion
in 2020 compared to 2019 driven by the allocation of ALM
results, partially of fset by the impact of higher deposit balances.
Average loans and leases were relatively flat in 2020
compared to 2019. Average deposits increas ed 26 percent
primarily due to client responses to mark et volatility , government
stimulus and placement of credit draws.
Global Investment Banking
Client teams and product specialists underwrit e and distribute
debt, equity and loan products, and provide advisory services
and tailored risk mana gement solutions. The economics of
certain investment banking and underwriting activities are
shared primarily betwee n Global Banking and Global Markets
under an internal revenue-sharing arrangement.  Global Banking
originates certain deal-related transactions with our corporate
and commercial clients that are executed and distributed by
Global Markets . To provide a complete discussion of ourconsolidated investmen t banking fees, the following table
presents total Corporat ion investment banking fees and the
portion attributable to Global Banking.
Investment Banking Fees
Global Banking Total Corporation
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2020 2019
Products
Advisory $ 1,458 $ 1,336 $ 1,621 $ 1,460 
Debt issuance 1,555 1,348 3,443 3,107 
Equity issuance 997 453 2,328 1,259 
Gross investment
banking fees 4,010 3,137 7,392 5,826 
Self-led deals (93) (62) (212) (184)
Total investment
banking fees $ 3,917 $ 3,075 $ 7,180 $ 5,642 
Total Corporation investment banking fees, excluding self-led
deals, of $7.2 billion, which are primarily included within Global
Banking  and Global Markets , increased 27 percent primarily
driven by higher equity issuance fees.
43 Bank of America
Global Markets
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 % Change
Net interest income $ 4,646 $ 3,915 19 %
Noninterest income:
Investment and brokerage services 1,973 1,738 14 
Investment banking fees 2,991 2,288 31 
Market making and similar activities 8,471 7,065 20 
All other income 685 608 13 
Total noninterest income 14,120 11,699 21 
Total revenue, net of interest expense 18,766 15,614 20 
Provision for credit losses 251 (9) n/m
Noninterest expense 11,422 10,728 6 
Income before income taxes 7,093 4,895 45 
Income tax expense 1,844 1,395 32 
Net income $ 5,249 $ 3,500 50 
Effective tax rate 26.0 % 28.5 %
Return on average allocated capital 15 10 
Efficiency ratio 60.86 68.71 
Balance Sheet
Average
Trading-related assets:
Trading account securities $ 243,519 $ 246,336 (1)%
Reverse repurchases 104,697 116,883 (10)
Securities borrowed 87,125 83,216 5 
Derivative assets 47,655 43,273 10 
Total trading-related assets 482,996 489,708 (1)
Total loans and leases 73,062 71,334 2 
Total earning assets 482,171 476,225 1 
Total assets 685,047 679,300 1 
Total deposits 47,400 31,380 51 
Allocated capital 36,000 35,000 3 
Year end
Total trading-related assets $ 421,698 $ 452,499 (7)%
Total loans and leases 78,415 72,993 7 
Total earning assets 447,350 471,701 (5)
Total assets 616,609 641,809 (4)
Total deposits 53,925 34,676 56 
n/m = not meaningful
Global Markets  offers sales and tradin g services and research
services to institutional clients across fixed-income, credit,
currency , commodity and equity businesses. Global Markets
product coverage includes securities and derivative products in
both the primary and secondary markets. Global Markets
provides market-making, financing, securities clearing,
settlement and custody services globally to our institutional
investor clients in support of their investing and trading activities.
We also work with our commercial and corporate clients to
provide risk management products using interest rate, equity ,
credit, curre ncy and commodity derivatives, foreign exchange,
fixed-income and mortgage-related products. As a result of our
market-making activities in these products, we may be required
to manage risk in a broad range of financial products including
government securities, equity and equity-linked securities, high-
grade and high-yield corporate debt securities, syndicated loans,
MBS, commodities and asset-backed securities. The economics
of certain investment banking and underwritin g activities are
shared primarily betwee n Global Markets  and Global Banking
under an internal revenu e-sharing arrangement. Global Banking
originates certain deal-related transactions with our corporate
and commercial clients that areexecuted and distributed by Global Markets . For inform ation on
investment banking fees on a consolidated basis, see page 43.
The followin g explanati ons for year-over-year changes for
Global Markets , including those disclosed under Sales and
Trading Revenue, are the same for amounts including and
excluding net DVA. Amounts excluding net DVA are a non-
GAAP financial measure. For more information on net DVA, see
Supplemental Financial Data on page 31.
Net income for Global Markets increased $1.7 billion to $5.2
billion. Net DVA losses were $133 million compared to losses of
$222 million  in 2019. Excluding net DVA, net income increased
$1.7 billion to $5.4 billion. These increases were  primarily driven
by higher revenue, partially offset by higher noninterest expense
and provision for credit losses.
Revenue increased $3.2 billion to $18.8 billion primarily
driven by higher sales and trading revenue and investment
banking fees. Sales and trading revenue increased $2.3 billion,
and excluding net DVA, increased $2.2 billion. These increases
were driven by higher revenue across FICC and Equities.
The provisi on for credit losses increased $260 million
primarily due to the weaker economic outlook related to COVID-
19. Noninterest expense increased $694 million to
BankofAmerica44
Bank of America 44
$11.4 billion driven by higher activity-based expenses for both
card and trading.
Average total assets increased $5.7 billion to $685.0 billion
driven by higher client balances in Global Equities. Year-end
total assets decreased $25.2 billion to $616.6 billion driven by
lower levels of inventory  in FICC and increased hedging of client
activity in Equities with derivative transactions relative to stock
positions.
The return on average allocated capital was 15 percent, up
from 10 percent, reflecting higher net income, partially offset by
an increase in allocated capital.
Sales and Trading Revenue
Sales and trading revenue includes unrealized and realized
gains and losses on trading and other assets which are included
in market making and similar activities, net interest income, and
fees primarily from commissions on equity securities. Sales and
trading revenue is segregated into fixed-income (government
debt obligations, investment and non-inv estment grade
corporate debt obligations, commercial MBS, residential
mortgage-backed securities, collateralized loan obligations,
interest rate and credit derivative contracts), currencies (interest
rate and foreign exchange contracts), commodities (primarily
futures, forwards, swaps  and options) and equities (equity-linked
derivatives and cash equity activity). The following table and
related discussion present sales and trading revenue,
substantially all of which is in Global Markets,  with the remainder
in Global Banking . In addition , the following table and related
discussion present sales and trading revenue,excluding net DVA, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. For
more information on net DVA, see Supplemental Financial Data
on page 31.
Sales and Trading Revenue 
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Sales and trading revenue
Fixed income, currencies and commodities $ 9,595 $ 8,189 
Equities 5,422 4,493 
Total sales and trading revenue $ 15,017 $ 12,682 
Sales and trading revenue, excluding net DVA 
Fixed income, currencies and commodities $ 9,725 $ 8,397 
Equities 5,425 4,507 
Total sales and trading revenue, excluding net
DVA $ 15,150 $ 12,904 
For more information on sales and trading revenue, see Note 3 – Derivatives  to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Includes FTE adjustments of $196 million and $187 million for 2020 and 2019.
Includes Global Banking  sales and trading  revenue of $478 million and $538 million for 2020
and 2019.
FICC and Equities sales and trading revenue, excluding net DVA, is a non-GAAP financial
measure. FICC net DVA losses were $130 million and $208 million for 2020 and 2019.
Equities net DV A losses were $3 million and $14 million for 2020 and 2019.
FICC reven ue increase d $1.3 billion driven by increased
client activity and improved market-making conditions across
macro produ cts. Equities  revenue increased $918 million driven
by increased client activi ty and a strong trading performance in a
more volatile market environment.
All Other
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 % Change
Net interest income $ 34 $ 234 (85)%
Noninterest income (loss) (3,606) (2,617) 38 
Total revenue, net of interest expense (3,572) (2,383) 50 
Provision for credit losses 50 (669) (107)
Noninterest expense 1,422 3,690 (61)
Loss before income taxes (5,044) (5,404) (7)
Income tax benefit (4,637) (4,048) 15 
Net loss $ (407)$ (1,356) (70)
Balance Sheet
Average
Total loans and leases $ 28,159 $ 42,935 (34)%
Total assets 228,783 210,689 9 
Total deposits 18,247 21,359 (15)
Year end
Total loans and leases $ 21,301 $ 37,156 (43)%
Total assets 264,141 224,375 18 
Total deposits 12,998 23,089 (44)
In segme nts where the total of liabilities and equity exceeds assets, which are generally deposit-taking segments, we allocate assets from All Other  to those segments to match liabilities (i.e.,
deposits) and allocated shareholders’ equity . Average allocated assets were $763.1 billion and $544.3 billion for 2020 and 2019, and year-end allocated assets were $977.7 billion and $565.4
billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
All Other consists of ALM activities, equity investments, non-
core mortg age loans and servicing activities, liquidating
businesses and certain expenses not otherwise allocated to a
business segment. ALM activities encompass certain residential
mortgages, debt securities, and interest rate and foreign
currency risk managem ent activities. Substantially all of the
results of ALM activities are allocated to our business segments.
For more information on our ALM activities, see Note23 – Business Segment Information  to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
Residential mortgage loans that are held for ALM purposes,
including interest rate or liquidity risk management, are classified
as core and are presented on the balance sheet of All Other .
During 2020, residential mortgage loans held for ALM activities
decreased $12.7 billion to $9.0 billion due primarily to loan sales.
Non-core residential mortgage and home equity loans, which are
principally runof f portfolios, are also held in All(1, 2, 3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)    
(4)    
(1)
(1)
(1)
45 Bank of America
Other . During 2020, total non-core loans decreased $3.0 billion
to $12.6 billion due primarily to payof fs and paydowns, as well
as Federal Housing Administration (FHA) loan conveyances and
sales, partially offset by repurchases. For more information on
the composition of the core and non-core portfolios, see
Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management on page 62.
The net loss for All Other  decreased $949 million to a net
loss of $407 million, primarily due to a $2.1 billion pretax
impairment charge related to the notice of termination of the
merchant services joint venture in 2019, partially  offset by lower
revenue and higher provision for credit losses.
Revenue decreased $1.2 billion primarily due to
extinguishment losses on certain structured liabilities, higher
client-driven ESG investment activity , resulting in higher
partnership losses on these tax-advantaged investments, and
lower net interest income, partially offset by a gain on sales of
mortgage loans.
The provision for credit losses increased $719 million to $50
million from a provision benefit of $669 million in 2019, primarily
due to recoveries from sales of previously charged-of f non-core
consumer real estate loans in 2019, as well as the weaker
economic outlook related to COVID-19.
Noninterest expense decreased $2.3 billion to $1.4 billion
primarily due to the $2.1 billion pretax impairment charge in
2019, partially of fset by higher litigation expense.
The income tax benef it increased $589 million primarily
driven by the impact of the U.K. tax law chang e and a higher
level of income tax credits related to our ESG investment
activity , partially offset by the positive impact from the resolution
of various tax controversy matters in 2019. Both years included
income tax benefit adjustments to eliminate the FTE treatment of
certain tax credits recorded in Global Banking .
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and
Contractual Obligations
We have contractual obligations to make future payments on
debt and lease agreeme nts. Additionally , in the normal course of
business, we enter into contractual arrangements whereby wecommit to future purchases of products or services from
unaffiliated parties. Purchase obligations are defined as
obligations that are legally binding agreements whereby we
agree to purchase products or services with a specific minimum
quantity at a fixed, minimum or variable price over a specified
period of time. Included in purchase obligations are vendor
contracts, the most significant of which include  communication
services, processing services and software contracts. Debt,
lease and other obligatio ns are more fully discussed in Note 11
– Long-term Debt  and Note 12 – Commitments and
Contingencies  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Other long-term liabilities include our contractual funding
obligations related to the Non-U.S. Pensi on Plans and
Nonqualified and Other Pension Plans (togeth er, the Plans).
Obligations to the Plans are based on the current and projected
obligations of the Plans,  performance of the Plans’ assets, and
any particip ant contribu tions, if applicable. During 2020 and
2019, we contributed $115 million and $135 million to the Plans,
and we expect to make $136 million of contributions during
2021. The Plans are more fully discussed in Note 17 –
Employee Benefit Plans  to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
We enter into commitm ents to extend credit such as loan
commitments, standby letters of credit (SBLCs) and commercial
letters of credit to meet  the financing needs of our customers.
For a summ ary of the total unfunded, or off-balance sheet, credit
extension commitment amounts by expiration date, see Credit
Extension Commitment s in Note 12 – Commitments and
Contingencies  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We also utilize variable interest entities (VIEs) in the ordinary
course of business to support our financing and investing needs
as well as those of our customers. For more information on our
involvement with unconsolidated VIEs, see Note 6 –
Securitizations and Other Variable Interest Entities  to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Table 10 includes certain  contractual obligations at December
31, 2020 and 2019.
Table 10Contractual Obligations
December 31, 2020December 31
 2019
(Dollars in millions)Due in One 
 Year or LessDue After
 One Year
Through
 Three YearsDue After
 Three Years
Through
 Five YearsDue After
 Five Years Total Total
Long-term debt $ 20,352 $ 50,824 $ 48,568 $ 143,190 $ 262,934 $ 240,856 
Operating lease obligations 1,927 3,169 2,395 4,609 12,100 11,794 
Purchase obligations 551 700 80 103 1,434 3,530 
Time deposits 50,661 3,206 426 1,563 55,856 74,673 
Other long-term liabilities 1,656 1,092 953 781 4,482 4,099 
Estimated interest expense on long-term debt and time deposits 4,542 8,123 6,958 30,924 50,547 44,385 
Total contractual obligations $ 79,689 $ 67,114 $ 59,380 $ 181,170 $ 387,353 $ 379,337 
Represents forecasted net interest expense on long-term debt and time deposits based on interest rates at December 31, 2020 and 2019. Forecasts are based on the contractual maturity dates of
each liability , and are net of derivative hedges, where applicable.
Representations and Warranties Obligations
For information on representations and warranties obligations in connection with the sale of mortgage loans, see Note 12 –
Commitments and Contingencies  to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (1)
(1)
Bank of America 46
Managing Risk
Risk is inherent in all our business activiti es. Sound risk
management enables us to serve our customers  and deliver for
our shareholders. If not managed well, risks can result in
financial loss, regulatory  sanctions and penalties, and damage
to our reputation, each of which may adversely impact our ability
to execute our business strategies. We take a comprehensive
approach to risk management with a defined Risk Framework
and an articulated Risk Appetite Statement, which are approved
annually by the ERC and the Board.
The seven key types of risk faced by the Corporation are
strategic, credit, market , liquidity , compliance, operational and
reputational.
●    Strategic risk is the risk to current or projected financial
condition arising from incorrect assumptions about external
or internal factors, inappropriate business plans, ineffective
business strategy execution, or failure to respon d in a timely
manner to changes in the regulatory , macro economic or
competitive environmen ts in the geographic locations in
which we operate.
●    Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from the inability or failure
of a borrower or counterparty to meet its obligations.
●    Market risk is the risk that changes in market conditions may
adversely impact the value of assets or liabilities, or
otherwise negatively impact earnings. Market risk is
composed of price risk and interest rate risk.
●    Liquidity risk is the inability to meet expected or unexpected
cash flow and collateral needs while continuing to support
our businesses and customers under a range of economic
conditions.
●    Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions,
material financial loss or damage to the reputation of the
Corporation arising from the failure of the Corporation to
comply with the requirements of applicable laws, rules and
regulations and our internal policies and procedures.
●    Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate
or failed processes, people and systems, or from external
events.
●    Reputational risk is the risk that negative perceptions of the
Corporation’ s conduct or business practices may adversely
impact its profitability or operations.
The following sections address in more detail the specific
procedures, measures and analyses of the major categories of
risk. This discussion of managing risk focuses on the current
Risk Framework that, as part of its annual review process, was
approved by the ERC and the Board.
As set forth in our Risk Framework, a culture of managing
risk well is fundamental to fulfilling our purpose and our values
and delivering responsible growth. It requires us to focus on risk
in all activities and encourages the necessary mindset and
behavior to enable effective risk management, and promotes
sound risk-taking within our risk appetite. Sustaining a culture of
managing risk well throughout the organization is critical to our
success and is a clear expectation of our executive
management team and the Board.
Our Risk Framework serves as the foundation for the
consistent and effective management of risks facing the
Corporation. The Risk Framework sets forth clear roles,
responsibilities and accountability for the management of risk
and provides a blueprin t for how the Board, through delegation
of authority to committees and executive officers, establishes
risk appetite and associated limits for our activities.Executive management assesses, with Board oversight, the
risk-adjusted returns of each business. Management reviews
and approves the strateg ic and financial operatin g plans, as well
as the capital plan and Risk Appetite Statement, and
recommends them annually to the Board for approval. Our
strategic plan takes into consideration return objectives and
financial resources, which must align with risk capacity and risk
appetite. Management sets financial objectives for each
business by allocating capital and setting a target for return on
capital for each business. Capital allocations and operating limits
are regularly evaluated as part of our overall governance
processes as the businesses and the economic environment in
which we operate continue to evolve. For more information
regarding capital allocations, see Business Segment Operations
on page 36.
The Corporation’ s risk appetite indicates the amount of
capital, earnings or liquidity we are willing to put at risk to
achieve our strategic objectives and business plans, consistent
with applicable regulatory requirements. Our risk appetite
provides a common and comparable set of measures for senior
management and the Board to clearly indicate our aggregate
level of risk and to monitor whether the Corporation’ s risk profile
remains in alignment with our strategic and capital plans. Our
risk appetite is formally articulated in the Risk Appetite
Statement, which includes both qualitative components and
quantitative limits.
Our overall capacity to take risk is limited; therefore, we
prioritize the risks we take in order to maintain a strong and
flexible financial position so we can withstand challenging
economic conditions and take advantage of organic growth
opportunities. Therefore , we set objectives and targets for
capital and liquidity that are intended to permit us to continue to
operate in a safe and sound manner , including during periods of
stress.
Our lines of business operate with risk limits (which may
include credit, market and/or operational limits , as applicable)
that align with the Corporation’ s risk appetite. Executive
management is responsible for tracking and reporting
performance measurements as well as any exceptions to
guidelines or limits. The Board, and its committees when
appropriate, oversee financial performance, execution of the
strategic and financial operating plans, adherence to risk
appetite limits and the adequacy of internal controls.
For a more detailed discussion of our risk management
activities, see the discussion below and pages 50 through 85.
For more information about the Corporation's risks related to
the pandem ic, see Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors on page 7.
These COVID-19 related risks are being managed within our
Risk Framework and supporting risk management programs.
Risk Management Governance
The Risk Framework describes delegations of authority whereby
the Board and its committees may delegate authority to
management-level committees or executive officers. Such
delegations may authorize certain decision-maki ng and approval
functions, which may be evidenced in, for example, committee
charters, job descriptions, meeting minutes and resolutions.
The chart below illustrates the inter-relationship among the
Board, Boar d committe es and management committees that
have the majority of risk oversight responsibilities for the
Corporation.
47 Bank of America
The chart below illustrates the inter-relationship among the Board, Board committees and management committees that have the
majority of risk oversight responsibilities for the Corporation.
Board of Directors and Board Committees
The Board is composed of 17 directors, all but one of whom are
independent. The Board authorizes management to maintain an
effective Risk Framewo rk, and oversees compliance with safe
and sound banking practices. In addition, the Board or its
committees conduct inquiries of, and receiv e reports from
management on risk-related matters to assess scope or
resource limitations that could impede the ability of Independent
Risk Management (IRM) and/or Corporate Audit to execute its
responsibilities. The Board committees discuss ed below have
the principal responsibility for enterprise-wide oversight of our
risk management activities. Through these activities, the Board
and applicable committees are provided with information on our
risk profile and oversee executive management  addressing key
risks we face. Other Board committees, as described below ,
provide additional oversight of specific risks.
Each of the committees  shown on the above chart regularly
reports to the Board on risk-related matters within the
committee’ s responsibilities, which is intended to collectively
provide the Board with integrated insight about our management
of enterprise-wide risks.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee oversees the qualifications, performance
and independence of the Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm, the performance of our corporate audit
function, the integrity of our consolidated finan cial statements,
our complia nce with legal and regulatory requirements, and
makes inquiries of management or the Chief Audit Executive
(CAE) to determine whether there are scope or resource
limitations that impede the ability of Corporate Audit to execute
its responsibilities. The Audit Committee is also responsible for
overseeing compliance risk pursuant to the New York Stock
Exchange listing standards.
Enterprise Risk Committee
The ERC has primary responsibility for oversi ght of the Risk
Framework and key risks we face and of the Corporation’ s
overall risk appetite. It approves the Risk Framework and the
Risk Appetite Statement and further recommends these
documents to the Board for approval. The ERC oversees senior
management’ s responsibilities for the identification,
measurement, monitoring and control of key risks we face. TheERC may consult with other Board committees on risk-related
matters.
Other Board Committees
Our Corporate Governance, ESG, and Sustainability Committee
oversees our Board’ s governance processes , identifies and
reviews the qualificat ions of potential Board members,
recommends nominees for election to our Board, recommends
committee appointment s for Board approval and reviews our
Environmental, Social and Governance and stockholder
engagement activities.
Our Compensation and Human Capital Committee oversees
establishing, maintaining and administering our compensation
programs and employee benefit plans, including approving and
recommending our Chief Executive Officer’s (CEO)
compensation to our Board for further approval by all
independent directors; reviewing and approving all of our
executive officers’ comp ensation, as well as compensation for
non-management directors; and reviewing certain other human
capital management topics.
Management Committees
Management committees may receive their authority from the
Board, a Board committee, another manageme nt committee or
from one or more executive officers. Our primary management
level risk committee is the Management Risk Committee (MRC).
Subject to Board oversight, the MRC is responsible for
management oversight of key risks facing the Corporation. This
includes providing mana gement oversight of our compliance and
operational risk programs, balance shee t and capital
management, funding activities and other liquidity activities,
stress testing, trading  activities, recovery and resolution
planning, model risk, subsidiary governance  and activities
between member banks and their nonbank affiliates pursuant to
Federal Reserve rules and regulations, among other things.
Lines of Defense
We have clear ownership and accountability across three lines
of defense: Front Line Units (FLUs), IRM and Corporate Audit.
We also have control functions outside of FLUs  and IRM (e.g.,
Legal and Global Human  Resources). The three lines of defense
are integrated into our management-level gover nance structure.
Each of these functional roles is further described in this section.
Bank of America 48
Executive Officers
Executive officers lead various functions representing the
functional roles. Authority for functional roles may be delegated
to executive officers from the Board, Board committees or
management-level comm ittees. Executive officers, in turn, may
further deleg ate respons ibilities, as appropriate, to management
level committees, management routines or individuals.
Executive officers review our activities for consistency with our
Risk Framework, Risk Appetite Statement and applicable
strategic, capital and financial operating plans, as well as
applicable policies, standards, procedures and processes.
Executive officers and other employees make decisions
individually on a day-to-day basis, consistent with the authority
they have been delegated. Executive officers and other
employees may also serve on committees and participate in
committee decisions.
Front Line Units
FLUs, which  include the lines of business as well as the Global
Technology and Operations Group, are responsible for
appropriately assessing and ef fectively managing all of the risks
associated with their activities.
Three organizational units that include FLU activities and
control function activities, but are not part of IRM are first, the
Chief Finan cial Officer (CFO) Group; second, Environmental,
Social and Governance (ESG), Capital Deployment (CD) and
Public Policy (PP); and third, the Chief Administrative Officer
(CAO) Group.
Independent Risk Management
IRM is part of our control functions and includes Global Risk
Management. We have other control functions that are not part
of IRM (other control functions may also provide oversight to
FLU activitie s), including  Legal, Global Human Resources and
certain activities within the CFO Group; ESG, CD and PP; and
CAO Group. IRM, led by the Chief Risk Officer (CRO), is
responsible for independently assessing and overseeing risks
within FLUs and other control functions. IRM establishes written
enterprise policies and procedures that include concentration
risk limits, where appropriate. Such policies and procedures
outline how aggregate risks are identified, meas ured, monitored
and controlled.
The CRO has the stature, authority and independence to
develop and impleme nt a meaningful risk management
framework. The CRO has unrestricted access to the Board and
reports directly to both the ERC and to the CEO. Global Risk
Management is organized into horizontal risk teams that cover a
specific risk area and vertical CRO teams that cover a particular
front line unit or control function. These teams work
collaboratively in executing their respective duties.
Corporate Audit
Corporate Audit and the CAE maintain their independence from
the FLUs, IRM and other control functions by reporting directly to
the Audit Committee or the Board. The CAE administratively
reports to the CEO. Corporate Audit provides independent
assessment and validation through testing of key processes and
controls across the Corporation. Corporate Audit includes Credit
Review which periodica lly tests and examines credit portfolios
and processes.
Risk Management Processes
The Risk Framework requires that strong risk management
practices are integrated in key strategic, capital and financial
planning processes and in day-to-day business processes
across the Corporation, with a goal of ensuring risks areappropriately considered, evaluated and responded to in a
timely manner . We employ our risk manage ment process,
referred to as Identify , Measure, Monitor and Control, as part of
our daily activities.
Identify  – To be effectively managed, risks must be clearly
defined and proactively  identified. Proper risk identification
focuses on recognizing and understanding key risks inherent
in our business activitie s or key risks that may arise from
external factors. Each employee is expected to identify and
escalate risks promptly . Risk identification is an ongoing
process, incorporating input from FLUs and control functions,
designed to be forward looking and capture relevant risk
factors across all of our lines of business.
Measure  – Once a risk is identi fied, it must be prioritized and
accurately measured through a systematic risk quantification
process including quantitative and qualitative components.
Risk is measured at various levels including, but not limited to,
risk type, FLU, legal entity and on an aggregate basis. This
risk quantific ation process helps to capture changes in our risk
profile due to changes in strategic direction, concentrations,
portfolio quality and the overall economic environment. Senior
management considers how risk exposures might evolve
under a variety of stress scenarios.
Monitor  – We monito r risk levels regularly to track adherence to
risk appetite, policies, standards, procedures and processes.
We also regularly update risk assessments and review risk
exposures. Through our monitoring, we can determine our
level of risk relative to limits and can take action in a timely
manner . We also can determine when risk limits  are breached
and have processes to appropriately report and escalate
exceptions. This includes requests for approval  to managers
and alerts to executiv e management, management-level
committees or the Board (directly or through an appropriate
committee).
Control  – We establish and communicate risk limits and controls
through policies, standa rds, procedures and processes that
define the responsibilities and authority for risk-taking. The
limits and controls can be adjusted by the Board or
management when conditions or risk tolerances warrant.
These limits may be absolute (e.g., loan amount, trading
volume) or relative (e.g., percentage of loan book in higher-
risk categories). Our lines of business are held accountable to
perform within the established limits.
The formal processes used to manage risk represent a part of
our overall risk management process. We instill a strong and
comprehensive culture of managing risk well through
communications, training, policies, procedures and
organizational roles and responsibilities. Establ ishing a culture
reflective of our purpose to help make our customers’ financial
lives better and delivering our responsible growth strategy is
also critical to effective risk management. We understand that
improper actions, behaviors or practices that are illegal,
unethical or contrary to our core values could result in harm to
the Corporation, our shareholders or our customers, damage the
integrity of the financial markets, or negatively impact our
reputation, and have established protocols and structures so
that such conduct risk is governed and reported across the
Corporation. Specifically , our Code of Cond uct provides a
framework for all of our employees to conduct themselves with
the highest integrity . Additionally , we continue to strengthen the
link between the employee performance management process
and individu al compens ation to encourage employees to work
toward enterprise-wide risk goals.
49 Bank of America
Corporation-wide Stress Testing
Integral to our Capital Planning, Financial Planning and Strategic
Planning processes, we conduct capital scenar io management
and stress forecasting on a periodic basis to better understand
balance sheet, earnings and capital sensitivities to certain
economic and business scenarios, including economic and
market conditions that are more severe than anticipated. These
stress forecasts provide an understanding of the potential
impacts from our risk profile on the balance sheet, earnings and
capital, and serve as a key component of our capital and risk
management practices. The intent of stress testing is to develop
a comprehensive understanding of potential impacts of on- and
off-balance sheet risks at the Corporation and how they impact
financial resiliency , which provides confidence to management,
regulators and our investors.
Contingency Planning
We have developed and maintain contingency plans that are
designed to prepare us in advance to respond in the event of
potential adverse economic, financial or marke t stress. These
contingency plans include our Capital Conting ency Plan and
Financial Contingency and Recovery Plan, which provide
monitoring, escalation, actions and routines designed to enable
us to increa se capital, access funding sources and reduce risk
through consideration of potential options that include asset
sales, business sales, capital or debt issuances, or other de-
risking strate gies. We also maintain a Resolution Plan to limit
adverse systemic impacts that could be associated with a
potential resolution of Bank of America.
Strategic Risk Management
Strategic risk is embedd ed in every business and is one of the
major risk categories along with credit, market, liquidity ,
compliance, operational  and reputational risks. This risk results
from incorrect assumptions about external or internal factors,
inappropriate business plans, ineffective business strategy
execution, or failure to respond in a timely manner to changes in
the regulato ry, macroec onomic or competitive environments in
the geographic locations in which we operate, such as
competitor actions, changing customer preferences, product
obsolescence and technology developments. Our strategic plan
is consisten t with our risk appetite, capital plan and liquidity
requirements and specifically addresses strategic risks.
On an annual basis, the Board reviews and approves the
strategic plan, capital plan, financial operating plan and Risk
Appetite Statement. With oversight by the Board, executive
management directs the lines of business to execute our
strategic plan consistent with our core operating principles and
risk appetite. The executive management team monitors
business performance throughout the year and provides the
Board with regular progress reports on whether strategic
objectives and timelines are being met, including reports on
strategic risks and if additional or alternative actions need to be
considered or implemen ted. The regular executive reviews focus
on assessing forecasted earnings and returns on capital, the
current risk profile, current capital and liquidit y requirements,
staffing levels and changes required to support the strategic
plan, stress testing results, and other qualitative  factors such as
market growth rates and peer analysis.
Significant strategic actions, such as capital actions, material
acquisitions or divestitures, and resolution plans are reviewed
and approved by the Board. At the business level, processes are
in place to discuss the strategic risk implications of new,
expanded or modified businesses, products or services and
other strategic initiatives, and to provide formal review andapproval where required. With oversight by the Board and the
ERC, executive management performs similar analyses
throughout the year and evaluates changes to the financial
forecast or the risk, capital or liquidity positio ns as deemed
appropriate to balance and optimize achieving the targeted risk
appetite, shareholder returns and maintainin g the targeted
financial strength. Proprietary models are used to measure the
capital requirements for credit, country , market, operational and
strategic risks. The allocated capital assigned to each business
is based on its unique risk profile. With oversight by the Board,
executive management assesses the risk-adjusted returns of
each business in approving strategic and financial operating
plans. The businesses use allocated capital to define business
strategies and price products and transactions.
Capital Management
The Corporation manages its capital position so that its capital is
more than adequate to support its business activities and aligns
with risk, risk appetite and strategic planning. Additionally , we
seek to maintain safety and soundness at all times, even under
adverse scenarios, take advantage of organic growth
opportunities, meet obligations to creditors and counterparties,
maintain ready access to financial markets, continue to serve as
a credit intermediary , remain a source of strength for our
subsidiaries, and satisfy current and future regulatory capital
requirements. Capital management is integrate d into our risk
and governance processes, as capital is a key consideration in
the development of our strategic plan, risk appetite and risk
limits.
We conduct an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment
Process (ICAAP) on a periodic basis. The ICAA P is a forward-
looking assessment of our projected capital needs and
resources, incorporating earnings, balance sheet and risk
forecasts under baseline and adverse econom ic and market
conditions. We utilize periodic stress tests to assess the
potential impacts to our balance sheet, earnings, regulatory
capital and liquidity under a variety of stress  scenarios. We
perform qualitative risk assessments to ident ify and assess
material risks not fully captured in our forecasts or stress tests.
We assess the potential capital impacts of propo sed changes to
regulatory capital requirements. Management assesses ICAAP
results and provides documented quarterly asse ssments of the
adequacy of our capital guidelines and capital position to the
Board or its committees.
We periodically review capital allocated to our businesses
and allocate capital annually during the strategic and capital
planning processes. For more information, see Business
Segment Operations on page 36.
CCAR and Capital Planning
The Federal Reserve requires BHCs to submit a capital plan and
planned capital actions on an annual basis, consistent with the
rules governing the CCAR capital plan.
Based on the results of our 2020 CCAR supervisory stress
test that was submitted  to the Federal Reserve in the second
quarter of 2020, we are subject to a 2.5 perce nt stress capital
buffer (SCB ) for the period beginning October 1, 2020 and
ending on September 30, 2021. Our Commo n equity tier 1
(CET1) capital ratio under the Standardized approach must
remain abov e 9.5 percent during this period (the sum of our
CET1 capital ratio minimum of 4.5 percent, global systemically
important bank (G-SIB) surcharge of 2.5 percent and our SCB of
2.5 percent) in order to avoid restrictions on capital distributions
and discretionary bonus payments.
Bank of America 50
Due to economic uncer tainty resulting from the pandemic,
the Federal  Reserve required all large banks  to update and
resubmit their capital plans in November 2020 based on the
Federal Reserve’ s upda ted supervisory stress test scenarios.
The results of the additional supervisory stress tests were
published in December 2020.
The Federal Reserve also required large banks to suspend
share repurchase programs during the second half of 2020,
except for repurchases to offset shares awarded under equity-
based compensation plans, and to limit common stock dividends
to existing rates that did not exceed the average of the last four
quarters’ net income.  The Federal Reser ve’s directives
regarding share repurchases aligned with our decision to
voluntarily suspend our general common stock repurchase
program during the first half of 2020. The suspension of our
repurchases did not include repurchases to offset shares
awarded under our equity-based compensation plans. Pursuant
to the Board’ s authorization, we repurchased $7.0 billion of
common stock during 2020.
In December 2020, the Federal Reserve announced that
beginning in the first quarter of 2021, large banks would be
permitted to pay common stock dividends at existing rates and
to repurchas e shares in an amount that, when combined with
dividends paid, does not exceed the average of net income over
the last four quarters.
On January 19, 2021, we announced that the Board declared
a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.18 per share, payable
on March 26, 2021 to shareholders of record as of March 5,
2021. We also announced that the Board authorized the
repurchase of $2.9 billion in common stock through March 31,
2021, plus repurchases to offset shares awarded under equity-
based compensation plans during the same period, estimated to
be approximately $300 million. This authoriza tion equals the
maximum amount allowed by the Federal Reserve for the
period.
Our stock repurchase program is subject to various factors,
including the Corporatio n’s capital position, liquidity , financial
performance and alternative uses of capital, stock trading price
and general market conditions, and may be suspended at any
time. Such repurchases may be effected through open market
purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including
repurchase plans that satisfy the conditions of Rule 10b5-1 of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange
Act).
Regulatory Capital
As a financial services  holding company , we are subject to
regulatory capital rules, including Basel 3, issued by U.S.
banking regulators. Basel 3 established minimu m capital ratios
and buffer requirements and outlined two methods ofcalculating risk-weighted assets (RWA), the Standardized
approach and the Advanced approaches. The Standardized
approach relies primarily on supervisory risk weights based on
exposure type, and the Advanced approaches  determine risk
weights based on internal models.
The Corporation's depository institution subsidia ries are also
subject to the Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) framework. The
Corporation and its primary affiliated banking entity , BANA, are
Advanced approaches institutions under Basel 3 and are
required to report regulatory risk-based capital ratios and RWA
under both the Standardized and Advanced approaches. The
approach that yields the lower ratio is used to assess capital
adequacy including under the PCA framework. As of
December 31, 2020, the CET1, Tier 1 capital and Total capital
ratios for the Corporation were lower under the Standardized
approach.
Minimum Capital Requirements
In order to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and
discretionary bonus payments, the Corporation must meet risk-
based capital ratio requirements that include a capital
conservation buffer greater than 2.5 percent, plus any applicable
countercyclical capital buffer and a G-SIB surcharge. On
October 1, 2020, the capital conservation buffer was replaced by
the SCB for the Corporation’ s Standardized approach ratio
requirements. The buffers and surcharge must be comprised
solely of CET1 capital.
The Corporation is also required to maintain a minimum
supplementary leverage ratio (SLR) of 3.0 percent plus a
leverage buffer of 2.0 percent in order to avoid certain
restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus
payments. Our insured  depository institution subsidiaries are
required to maintain a minimum 6.0 perce nt SLR to be
considered well capitalized under the PCA framework. The
numerator of the SLR is quarter-end Basel 3 Tier 1 capital. The
denominator is total leverage exposure based on the daily
average of the sum of on-balance sheet exposures less
permitted deductions and applicable temporary exclusions, as
well as the simple average of certain off-balance sheet
exposures, as of the end of each month in a quarter . For more
information, see Capital Management – Regulatory
Developments on page 55.
Capital Composition and Ratios
Table 11 presents Bank of America Corporation’ s capital ratios
and related information in accordance with Basel 3 Standardized
and Advanced approaches as measured at December 31, 2020
and 2019. For the periods presented herein, the Corporation met
the definition of well capitalized under current regulatory
requirements.
51 Bank of America
Table 11Bank of America Corporation Regulatory Capital under Basel 3
Standardized
Approach Advanced
Approaches Regulatory
Minimum 
(Dollars in millions, except as noted) December 31, 2020
Risk-based capital metrics:
Common equity tier 1 capital $ 176,660 $ 176,660 
Tier 1 capital 200,096 200,096 
Total capital 237,936 227,685 
Risk-weighted assets (in billions) 1,480 1,371 
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 11.9 % 12.9 % 9.5 %
Tier 1 capital ratio 13.5 14.6 11.0 
Total capital ratio 16.1 16.6 13.0 
Leverage-based metrics:
Adjusted quarterly average assets (in billions) $ 2,719 $ 2,719 
Tier 1 leverage ratio 7.4 % 7.4 % 4.0 
Supplementary leverage exposure (in billions) $ 2,786 
Supplementary leverage ratio 7.2 % 5.0 
December 31, 2019
Risk-based capital metrics:
Common equity tier 1 capital $ 166,760 $ 166,760 
Tier 1 capital 188,492 188,492 
Total capital 221,230 213,098 
Risk-weighted assets (in billions) 1,493 1,447 
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 11.2 % 11.5 % 9.5 %
Tier 1 capital ratio 12.6 13.0 11.0 
Total capital ratio 14.8 14.7 13.0 
Leverage-based metrics:
Adjusted quarterly average assets (in billions) $ 2,374 $ 2,374 
Tier 1 leverage ratio 7.9 % 7.9 % 4.0 
Supplementary leverage exposure (in billions) $ 2,946 
Supplementary leverage ratio 6.4 % 5.0 
As of December 31, 2020, capital ratios are calculated using the regulatory capital rule that allows a five-year transition period related to the adoption of CECL.
Derivative exposure amounts are calculated using the standardized approach for measuring counterparty credit risk at December 31, 2020 and the current exposure method at December 31, 2019.
The capital conservation buffer and G-SIB surcharge were 2.5 percent at both December 31, 2020 and 2019. At December 31, 2020, the Corporation's SCB of 2.5 percent was applied in place of
the capital conservation buf fer under the Standardized approach. The countercyclical capital buf fer for both periods was zero. The SLR minimum includes a leverage buf fer of 2.0 percent.
Total capital under the Advanced approaches dif fers from the Standardized approach due to dif ferences in the amount permitted in T ier 2 capital related to the qualifying allowance for credit losse s.
Reflects total average assets adjusted for certain T ier 1 capital deductions.
Supplementary leverage exposure at December 31, 2020 reflects the temporary exclusion of U.S. T reasury securities and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks.
At December 31, 2020, CET1 capital was $176.7 billion, an
increase of $9.9 billion from December 31, 2019, driven by
earnings and net unrealized gains on available-for-sale (AFS)
debt securit ies included  in accumulated other comprehensive
income (OCI), partially offset by common stock repurchases and
dividends. Total capital under the Standardized approach
increased $16.7 billion primarily driven by the same factors as
CET1 capital, an increase in the adjusted allowance for creditlosses includ ed in Tier 2 capital and the issuance of preferred
stock. RWA under the Standardized approach, which yielded the
lower CET1 capital ratio at December 31, 2020, decreased
$13.7 billion  during 2020 to $1,480 billion prima rily due to lower
commercial and consumer lending exposures, partially offset by
investments of excess deposits in securities. Table 12 shows the
capital composition at December 31, 2020 and 2019.(1, 2) (1) (3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(4)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
Bank of America 52
Table 12Capital Composition under Basel 3
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Total common shareholders’ equity $ 248,414 $ 241,409 
CECL transitional amount 4,213 — 
Goodwill, net of related deferred tax liabilities (68,565) (68,570)
Deferred tax assets arising from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards (5,773) (5,193)
Intangibles, other than mortgage servicing rights, net of related deferred tax liabilities (1,617) (1,328)
Defined benefit pension plan net assets (1,164) (1,003)
Cumulative unrealized net (gain) loss related to changes in fair value of financial liabilities attributable to own creditworthiness,
net-of-tax 1,753 1,278 
Other (601) 167 
Common equity tier 1 capital 176,660 166,760 
Qualifying preferred stock, net of issuance cost 23,437 22,329 
Other (1) (597)
Tier 1 capital 200,096 188,492 
Tier 2 capital instruments 22,213 22,538 
Qualifying allowance for credit losses 15,649 10,229 
Other (22) (29)
Total capital under the Standardized approach 237,936 221,230 
Adjustment in qualifying allowance for credit losses under the Advanced approaches (10,251) (8,132)
Total capital under the Advanced approaches $ 227,685 $ 213,098 
The CECL transitional amount includes the impact of the Corporation's adoption of the new CECL accounting standard on January 1, 2020 plus 25 percent of the increase in the adjusted
allowance for credit losses from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020.
The balance at December 31, 2020 includes the impact of transition provisions related to the new CECL accounting standard.
Table 13 shows the components of R WA as measured under Basel 3 at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Table 13Risk-weighted Assets under Basel 3
Standardized
ApproachAdvanced
ApproachesStandardized
Approach Advanced
Approaches
December 31
(Dollars in billions) 2020 2019
Credit risk $ 1,420 $ 896 $ 1,437 $ 858 
Market risk 60 60 56 55 
Operational risk n/a 372 n/a 500 
Risks related to credit valuation adjustments n/a 43 n/a 34 
Total risk-weighted assets $ 1,480 $ 1,371 $ 1,493 $ 1,447 
 Derivative exposure amounts are calculated using the standardized approach for measuring counterparty credit risk at December 31, 2020 and the current exposure method at December 31, 2019.
December 31, 2020 includes the ef fects of an update made to our operational risk R WA model during the third quarter of 2020.
n/a = not applicable(1)
(2)
(2)
(1)
(2)
 (1) (1)
(2)
(1)
(2) 
53 Bank of America
Bank of America, N.A. Regulatory Capital
Table 14 presents regulatory capital information  for BANA in accordance with Basel 3 Standardized and Advanced approaches as
measured at December 31, 2020 and 2019. BANA met the definition of well capitalized under the PCA framework for both periods.
Table 14Bank of America, N.A. Regulatory Capital under Basel 3
Standardized
 Approach Advanced
 Approaches Regulatory
 Minimum 
(Dollars in millions, except as noted) December 31, 2020
Risk-based capital metrics:
Common equity tier 1 capital $ 164,593 $ 164,593 
Tier 1 capital 164,593 164,593 
Total capital 181,370 170,922 
Risk-weighted assets (in billions) 1,221 1,014 
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 13.5 % 16.2 % 7.0 %
Tier 1 capital ratio 13.5 16.2 8.5 
Total capital ratio 14.9 16.9 10.5 
Leverage-based metrics:
Adjusted quarterly average assets (in billions) $ 2,143 $ 2,143 
Tier 1 leverage ratio 7.7 % 7.7 % 5.0 
Supplementary leverage exposure (in billions) $ 2,525 
Supplementary leverage ratio 6.5 % 6.0 
  
  December 31, 2019
Risk-based capital metrics:
Common equity tier 1 capital $ 154,626 $ 154,626 
Tier 1 capital 154,626 154,626 
Total capital 166,567 158,665 
Risk-weighted assets (in billions) 1,241 991 
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 12.5 % 15.6 % 7.0 %
Tier 1 capital ratio 12.5 15.6 8.5 
Total capital ratio 13.4 16.0 10.5 
Leverage-based metrics:
Adjusted quarterly average assets (in billions) $ 1,780 $ 1,780 
Tier 1 leverage ratio 8.7 % 8.7 % 5.0 
Supplementary leverage exposure (in billions) $ 2,177 
Supplementary leverage ratio 7.1 % 6.0 
As of December 31, 2020, capital ratios are calculated using the regulatory capital rule that allows a five-year transition period related to the adoption of CECL.
Derivative exposure amounts are calculated using the standardized approach for measuring counterparty credit risk at December 31, 2020 and the current exposure method at December 31, 2019.
Risk-based capital regulatory minimu ms at both December 31, 2020 and 2019 are the minimum ratios under Basel 3 including a capital conservation buffer of 2.5 percent. The regulatory minimums
for the leverage ratios as of both period ends are the percent required to be considered well capitalized under the PCA framework.
Total capital under the Advanced approaches dif fers from the Standardized approach due to dif ferences in the amount permitted in T ier 2 capital related to the qualifying allowance for credit losses.
Reflects total average assets adjusted for certain T ier 1 capital deductions.
Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity Requirements
Total loss- absorbing capacity (TLAC) consists of the
Corporation’ s Tier 1 capital and eligible long-term debt issued
directly by the Corporation. Eligible long-term debt for TLAC
ratios is comprised of unsecured debt that has a remaining
maturity of at least one year and satisfies additional
requirements as prescribed in the TLAC final rule. As with therisk-based capital ratios and SLR, the Corporation is required to
maintain TLAC ratios in excess of minimum requirements plus
applicable buffers to avoid restrictions on capital distributions
and discretionary bonus payments. Table 15 presents the
Corporation's TLAC and long-term debt ratios and related
information as of December 31, 2020 and 2019.(1, 2) (1) (3)
(4)
(5)
(4)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
Bank of America 54
Table 15Bank of America Corporation Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity and Long-Term Debt
 
TLAC Regulatory
Minimum Long-term 
 DebtRegulatory
Minimum 
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2020
Total eligible balance $ 405,153 $ 196,997 
Percentage of risk-weighted assets 27.4 % 22.0 % 13.3 % 8.5 %
Percentage of supplementary leverage exposure 14.5 9.5 7.1 4.5 
December 31, 2019
Total eligible balance $ 367,449 $ 171,349 
Percentage of risk-weighted assets 24.6 % 22.0 % 11.5 % 8.5 %
Percentage of supplementary leverage exposure 12.5 9.5 5.8 4.5 
As of December 31, 2020, TLAC ratios are calculated using the regulatory capital rule that allows a five-year transition period related to the adoption of CECL.
The TLAC RWA regulatory minimum consists of 18.0 percent plus a TLAC RWA buffer comprised of 2.5 percent plus the Method 1 G-SIB surcharge of 1.5 percent. The countercyclical buffer is
zero for both periods. The TLAC supplementary leverage exposure regul atory minimum consists of 7.5 percent plus a 2.0 percent TLAC leverage  buffer. The TLAC RWA and leverage buffers must
be comprised solely of CET1 capital and T ier 1 capital, respectively .
The long- term debt RWA regulatory minimum is comprised of 6.0 percent plus an additional 2.5 percent requirement based on the Corporation’ s Method 2 G-SIB surcharge. The long-term debt
leverage exposure regulatory minimum is 4.5 percent.
The approach that yields the higher R WA is used to calculate TLAC and long-term debt ratios, which was the Standardized approach as of both December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Supplementary leverage exposure at December 31, 2020 reflects the temporary exclusion of U.S. T reasury Securities and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks.
Derivative exposure amounts are calculated using the standardized approach for measuring counterparty credit risk at December 31, 2020 and the current exposure method at December 31, 2019.
Regulatory Developments
Revisions to Basel 3 to Address Current Expected
Credit Loss Accounting
On January 1, 2020, the Corporation adopted the new
accounting standard that requires the measurement of the
allowance for credit losses to be based on management’ s best
estimate of lifetime ECL inherent in the Corporation's relevant
financial assets. For more information, see Note 1 – Summary of
Significant Accounting Principles  to the Consolidated Financial
Statements. During the first quarter of 2020, in accordance with
an interim final rule issued by U.S. banking regulators that was
finalized on August 26, 2020, the Corporation delayed for two
years the initial adoption impact of CECL on regulatory capital,
followed by a three-year transition period to phase out the
aggregate amount of the capital benefit provided during 2020
and 2021 (i.e., a five-year transition period). During the two-year
delay , the Corporation will add back to CET1 capital 100 percent
of the initial adoption impact of CECL plus 25 percent of the
cumulative quarterly changes in the allowance for credit losses
(i.e., quarterly transitional amounts). After two years, starting on
January 1, 2022, the quarterly transitional amounts along with
the initial adoption impa ct of CECL will be phased out of CET1
capital over the three-year period.
Stress Capital Buffer
On March 4, 2020, the Federal Reserve issued  a final rule that
integrates the annual quantitative assessmen t of the CCAR
program with the buffer requirements in the U.S. Basel 3 Final
Rule. The new approach  replaced the static 2.5 percent capital
conservation buffer for Basel 3 Standardized approach
requirements with a SCB, calculated as the decline in the CET1
capital ratio under the supervisory severely adverse scenario
plus four quarters of planned common stock dividends, floored
at 2.5 percent. Based on the CCAR 2020 supervisory stress test
results, the Corporation is subject to a 2.5 percent SCB for the
period beginning October 1, 2020 and ending on September 30,
2021.
In conjunction with this new requirement, the Federal Reserve
has removed the annua l CCAR quantitative objection process
beginning with CCAR 2020. While the final rule continues to
require that the Corporation describe its planned capital
distributions in its CCAR capital plan, the Corporation is no
longer required to seek prior approval if it makes capital
distributions in excess of those included in its CCAR capitalplan. The Corporation is instead subject to automatic distribution
limitations if its capital ratios fall below its buffer requirements,
which include the SCB.
Eligible Retained Income
On March 17, 2020, in response to the economic impact of the
pandemic, the U.S. banking regulators issued an interim final
rule that revises the definition of eligible retained income to be
based on average net income over the prior four quarters. This
change, which was finalized on August 26, 2020, more gradually
phases in automatic distribution restrictions to the extent capital
buffers are breached.
Supplementary Leverage Ratio
On April 1, 2020, in response to the economic impact of the
pandemic, the Federal Reserve issued an interim final rule to
temporarily exclude the on-balance sheet amounts of U.S.
Treasury securities and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks from
the calculation of supp lementary leverage exposure for bank
holding companies. The rule is effective for June 30, 2020
through March 31, 2021 reports. As of December 31, 2020,
temporary exclusions improved the SLR by 1.0 percent to 7.2
percent.
On May 15, 2020, the U.S. banking regulato rs issued an
interim final rule that provides a similar tempor ary exclusion to
depository institutions, effective from the beginning of the
second quarter of 2020 through March 31, 2021; however ,
institutions must elect the relief. Beginning in the third quarter of
2020, a depository institution electing to apply the exclusion
must receive approval from its primary regulator prior to making
any capital distributions as long as the exclusion  is in effect. As
of December 31, 2020, the Corporation’ s insured depository
institution subsidiaries have not elected the exclusion.
Paycheck Protection Program Loans
On April 9, 2020, in response to the economic impact of the
pandemic, the U.S. banking regulators issued an interim final
rule that, among other things, stipulates PPP loans, which are
guaranteed by the SBA, will receive a zero percent risk weight
under the Basel 3 Advanced and Standardized approaches. The
rule was later finalized  by the U.S. banking regulators on
October 28, 2020. For more information on the PPP, see
Executive Summary – Recent Development s – COVID-19
Pandemic on page 25 and Note 1 – Summary of Significant
Accounting Principles  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.(1) (2) (3)
(4)
 (5, 6)
(4)
(6)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
55 Bank of America
Standardized Approach for Measuring Counterparty
Credit Risk
On June 30, 2020 the Corporation adopted the new
standardized approach for measuring counterp arty credit risk
(SA-CCR), which replaces the current expos ure method for
calculating the exposure amount of derivative contracts for risk-
weighted assets and supplementary lever age exposure.
Adoption of SA-CCR resulted in a decrease of approximately
$15 billion in the Corpo ration’ s Standardized RWA, and a $66
billion decrease in supplementary leverage exposure.
Swap Dealer Capital Requirements
On July 22, 2020, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission (CFTC) issued a final rule to establish capital
requirements for swap dealers and major swap participants that
are not subject to existing U.S. prudential regulation. Under the
rule, applicable subsidiaries of the Corpora tion would be
permitted to elect one of two approaches to compute their
regulatory capital. The first approach is a bank-based capital
approach, which requires that firms maintain CET1 capital
greater than or equal to 6.5 percent of the entity’ s RWA as
calculated under Basel 3, Total capital greater than or equal to
8.0 percent of the entity’ s RWA as calculated under Basel 3 and
Total capital  greater than or equal to 8.0 percen t of the entity’ s
uncleared swap margin.  The second approach is based on net
liquid assets  and requires that a firm maintain net capital greater
than or equal to 2.0 percent of its uncleared swap margin. The
final rule also includes reporting requirements. The impact on
the Corporation is not expected to be significant.
Deduction of Unsecured Debt of G-SIBs
On October 20, 2020, the Federal Reserve, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency (U.S. Agencies) finalized a rule requiring
Advanced approaches institutions to deduct from regulatory
capital certain investments in TLAC-eligible long-term debt and
other pari passu or subo rdinated debt instruments issued by G-
SIBs above a specified threshold. The final rule is intended to
limit the interconnectedness between G-SIBs and is
complementary to existing regulatory capital requirements that
generally require banks to deduct investments in the regulatory
capital of financial institu tions. The final rule is effective April 1,
2021. The impact to the Corporation is not expected to be
significant.
Volcker Rule
Effective January 1, 2020, we became subject to certain
changes to the V olcker Rule, including removing the requirement
for banking organizations to deduct from T ier 1 capital ownership
interests of covered funds acquired or retained under the
underwriting or market-making exemptions of the Volcker Rule,
which the banking entity did not organize or of fer.
Single-Counterparty Credit Limits
The Federa l Reserve established single-counterparty credit
limits (SCCL) for BHCs with total consolidated assets of $250
billion or more. The SCCL rule is designed to ensure that the
maximum possible loss that a BHC could incur due to the default
of a single counterparty or a group of connected counterparties
would not endanger the BHC’ s survival, thereby reducing the
probability of future financial crises. Beginning January 1, 2020,
G-SIBs must calculate SCCL on a daily basis  by dividing the
aggregate net credit exposure to a given counterparty by the G-
SIB’s Tier 1 capital, ensuring that exposures to other G-SIBsand nonbank financial institutions regulated by the Federal
Reserve do not breac h 15 percent of Tier 1 capital and
exposures to most other counterparties do not breach 25
percent of Tier 1 capital. Certain exposures, including exposures
to the U.S. government, U.S. government-sponsored entities
and qualifying central counterparties, are exempt from the credit
limits.
Regulatory Capital and Securities Regulation
The Corporation’ s principal U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are
BofA Securities, Inc. (BofAS), Merrill Lynch Professional
Clearing Corp. (MLPCC) and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &
Smith Incorporated (MLPF&S). The Corpora tion's principal
European broker-deale r subsidiaries are Merrill Lynch
International (MLI) and BofA Securities Europe SA (BofASE).
The U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the net
capital requirements of Rule 15c3-1 under the Exchange Act.
BofAS computes its minimum capital requirements as an
alternative net capital broker-dealer under Rule 15c3-1e, and
MLPCC and MLPF& S compute their minimum capital
requirements in accordance with the alternative  standard under
Rule 15c3-1. BofAS and MLPCC are also registered as futures
commission merchants and are subject to CFTC Regulation
1.17. The U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are also registered
with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authorit y, Inc. (FINRA).
Pursuant to FINRA Rule 4110, FINRA may impose higher net
capital requirements than Rule 15c3-1 under the Exchange Act
with respect to each of the broker-dealers.
BofAS provid es institutional services, and in accordance with
the alternative net capital requirements, is required to maintain
tentative net capital in excess of $1.0 billion and net capital in
excess of the greater of $500 million or a certain percentage of
its reserve requirement. BofAS must also notify the Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC) in the event its tentative net
capital is less than $5.0 billion. BofAS is also required to hold a
certain percentage of its customers' and affiliates' risk-based
margin in order to meet its CFTC minimu m net capital
requirement. At December 31, 2020, BofAS had tentative net
capital of $16.8 billion. BofAS also had regulatory net capital of
$14.1 billion, which exceeded the minimum requirement of $2.9
billion.
MLPCC is a fully-guaranteed subsidiary of BofAS and
provides clearing and settlement services as well as prime
brokerage and arranged financing services for institutional
clients. At December 31, 2020, MLPCC’ s regulatory net capital
of $8.6 billion exceeded the minimum requireme nt of $1.4 billion.
MLPF&S provides retail services. At December 31, 2020,
MLPF&S' regulatory net capital was $3.6 billion, which exceeded
the minimum requirement of $180 million.
Our European broker-dealers are regulated by non-U.S.
regulators. MLI, a U.K. investment firm, is regulated by the
Prudential Regulation Authority and the FCA and is subject to
certain regulatory capital requirements. At December 31, 2020,
MLI’s capital resources were $34.1 billion, which exceeded the
minimum Pillar 1 requirement of $14.7 billion. BofASE, a French
investment firm, is regulated by the Autorité de Contrôle
Prudentiel et de Résolution and the Autorité des Marchés
Financiers, and is subject to certain regulatory capital
requirements. At December 31, 2020, BofASE's capital
resources were $6.2 billion, which exceeded the minimum Pillar
1 requirement of $1.9 billion.
Bank of America 56
Liquidity Risk
Funding and Liquidity Risk Management
Our primary liquidity risk management objective is to meet
expected or unexpected cash flow and collateral needs while
continuing to support our businesses and customers under a
range of economic conditions. To achieve that objective, we
analyze and monitor our liquidity risk under expected and
stressed conditions, maintain liquidity and access to diverse
funding sources, including our stable deposit base, and seek to
align liquidit y-related incentives and risks. These liquidity risk
management practices have allowed us to effectively manage
the market stress from the pandemic that began in the first
quarter of 2020. For more information on the effects of the
pandemic, see Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors – Coronavirus
Disease on page 7 and Executive Summary – Recent
Developments – COVID-19 Pandemic on page 25.
We define liquidity as readily available assets, limited to cash
and high-quality , liquid, unencumbered securiti es that we can
use to meet our contractual and contingent financial obligations
as those obligations arise. We manage our liquidity position
through line-of-business and ALM activities, as well as through
our legal entity funding strategy , on both a forward and current
(including intraday) basis under both expecte d and stressed
conditions. We believe that a centralized approach to funding
and liquidity management enhances our ability to monitor
liquidity requirements, maximizes access to funding sources,
minimizes borrowing costs and facilitates timely responses to
liquidity events.
The Board approves our liquidity risk policy and the Financial
Contingency and Recovery Plan. The ERC establishes our
liquidity risk tolerance levels. The MRC is responsible for
overseeing liquidity risks and directing management to maintain
exposures within the established tolerance levels. The MRC
reviews and monitors our liquidity position and stress testing
results, approves certain liquidity risk limits and reviews the
impact of strategic decisions on our liquidity . For more
information, see Managing Risk on page 47. Under this
governance framework, we have developed certain funding and
liquidity risk manageme nt practices which include: maintaining
liquidity at the parent company and selected subsidiaries,
including our bank subsidiaries and other regulated entities;
determining what amounts of liquidity are appropriate for these
entities based on analys is of debt maturities and other potential
cash outflows, including those that we may experience during
stressed market conditions; diversifying funding sources,
considering our asset profile and legal entity structure; and
performing contingency planning.
NB Holdings Corporation
We have intercompany arrangements with certain key
subsidiaries under which we transferred certain assets of Bank
of America Corporation, as the parent company , which is a
separate and distinct legal entity from our bank and nonbank
subsidiaries, and agreed to transfer certain additional parent
company assets not needed to satisfy anticipated near-term
expenditures, to NB Holdings Corporation, a wholly-owned
holding company subsidiary (NB Holdings). The parent company
is expected to continue to have access to the same flow of
dividends, interest and other amounts of cash necessary to
service its debt, pay dividends and perform other obligations as
it would have had if it had not entered into these arrangements
and transferred any assets.
In consideration for the transfer of assets, NB Holdings
issued a subordinated note to the parent company in a principalamount equal to the value of the transferred assets. The
aggregate principal amount of the note will increase by the
amount of any future asset transfers. NB Holding s also provided
the parent company with a committed line of credit that allows
the parent company to draw funds necessary to service near-
term cash needs. These arrangements support our preferred
single point of entry resolution strategy , under which only the
parent company would be resolved under the U.S. Bankruptcy
Code. These arrangements include provisions to terminate the
line of credit, forgive the subordinated note and require the
parent company to transfer its remaining financial assets to NB
Holdings if our projec ted liquidity resources deteriorate so
severely that resolution of the parent company becomes
imminent.
Global Liquidity Sources and Other Unencumbered
Assets
We maintain liquidity available to the Corporation, including the
parent company and selected subsidiaries, in the form of cash
and high-qu ality, liquid, unencumbered securitie s. Our liquidity
buffer, referred to as Global Liquidity Sources (GLS), is
comprised of assets that are readily available to the parent
company and selected subsidiaries, including holding company ,
bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries, even during stressed
market conditions. Our cash is primarily on deposit with the
Federal Reserve Bank and, to a lesser extent, central banks
outside of the U.S. We limit the composition of high-quality ,
liquid, unenc umbered securities to U.S. govern ment securities,
U.S. agency  securities, U.S. agency MBS and a select group of
non-U.S. government securities. We can quickly obtain cash for
these secu rities, even in stressed cond itions, through
repurchase agreements  or outright sales. We hold our GLS in
legal entities  that allow us to meet the liquidity requirements of
our global businesses, and we consider the impact of potential
regulatory , tax, legal and other restrictions that could limit the
transferability of funds among entities.
Table 16 presents average GLS for the three months ended
December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Table 16Average Global Liquidity Sources
Three Months Ended
 December 31
(Dollars in billions) 2020 2019
Bank entities $ 773 $ 454 
Nonbank and other entities 170 122 
Total Average Global Liquidity
Sources $ 943 $ 576 
Nonbank includes Parent, NB Holdings and other regulated entities.
Our bank subsidiaries’ liquidity is primarily driven by deposit
and lending activity , as well as securities valuati on and net debt
activity . Bank subsidiaries can also generate incremental
liquidity by pledging a range of unencumbered loans and
securities to certain FHLBs and the Federal Reserve Discount
Window . The cash we could have obtained by borrowing against
this pool of specifically-identified eligible assets was $306 billion
and $372 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019. We have
established operational procedures to enable us to borrow
against these assets, including regularly monitoring our total
pool of eligible loans and securities collateral. Eligibility is
defined in guidelines from the FHLBs and the Federal Reserve
and is subject to change at their discretion. Due to regulatory
restrictions, liquidity generated by the bank subsidiaries can
generally be used only to fund obligations within the bank
subsidiaries, and transfers to the parent company or nonbank
subsidiaries may be subject to prior regulatory approval.(1)
(1) 
57 Bank of America
Liquidity is also held in nonbank entities, including the
Parent, NB Holdings and other regulated entities. Parent
company and NB Holdi ngs liquidity is typically in the form of
cash deposi ted at BANA and is excluded from the liquidity at
bank subsid iaries. Liquidity held in other regulated entities,
comprised primarily of broker-dealer subsidiar ies, is primarily
available to meet the obligations of that entity , and transfers to
the parent company or to any other subsidiary may be subject to
prior regulatory approval due to regulatory restrictions and
minimum requirements. Our other regulated entities also hold
unencumbered investment-grade securities and equities that we
believe could be used to generate additional liquidity .
Table 17 presents the composition of average GLS for the
three months ended December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Table 17Average Global Liquidity Sources
Composition
Three Months Ended
 December 31
(Dollars in billions) 2020 2019
Cash on deposit $ 322 $ 103 
U.S. Treasury securities 141 98 
U.S. agency securities, mortgage-backed
securities, and other investment-grade
securities 462 358 
Non-U.S. government securities 18 17 
Total Average Global Liquidity Sources$ 943 $ 576 
Our GLS are substantially the same in compos ition to what
qualifies as High Qualit y Liquid Assets (HQLA) under the final
U.S. Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) rules. However , HQLA for
purposes of calculating LCR is not reported at market value, but
at a lower value that incorporates regulatory deductions and the
exclusion of excess liquidity held at certain subsidiaries. The
LCR is calculated as the amount of a finan cial institution’ s
unencumbered HQLA relative to the estimated net cash outflows
the institution could encounter over a 30-day period of significant
liquidity stress, expressed as a percentage. Our average
consolidated HQLA, on a net basis, was $584 billion and $464
billion for the three months ended December 31, 2020 and
2019. For the same periods, the average consol idated LCR was
122 percent and 116 percent. Our LCR fluctuates due to normal
business flows from customer activity .
Liquidity Stress Analysis
We utilize liquidity stress  analysis to assist us in determining the
appropriate amounts of liquidity to maintain at the parent
company and our subsidiaries to meet contractual and
contingent cash outflows under a range of scenarios. The
scenarios we consider and utilize incorporate market-wide and
Corporation-specific events, including potenti al credit rating
downgrades for the parent company and our subsidiaries, and
more severe  events including potential resolution  scenarios. The
scenarios are based on our historical experience, experience of
distressed and failed financial institutions, regulatory guidance,
and both expected and unexpected future events.
The types of potential  contractual and contingent cash
outflows we consider in our scenarios may include, but are not
limited to, upcoming contractual maturities of unsecured debt
and reductions in new debt issuances; diminished access to
secured financing markets; potential deposit withdrawals;
increased draws on loan commitments, liquidi ty facilities and
letters of credit; additional collateral that coun terparties could
call if our credit ratings were downgraded; collat eral and margin
requirements arising from market value changes; and potentialliquidity required to maintain businesses and finance customer
activities. Changes in certain market factors, including, but not
limited to, credit rating downgrades, could negatively impact
potential contractual and contingent outflows and the related
financial instruments, and in some cases these impacts could be
material to our financial results.
We consider all sources of funds that we could access during
each stress scenario and focus particularly on matching
available sources with corresponding liquidity requirements by
legal entity . We also use the stress modeling results to manage
our asset and liability profile and establish limits and guidelines
on certain funding sources and businesses.
Net Stable Funding Ratio Final Rule
On October 20, 2020, the U.S. Agencies finalized the Net Stable
Funding Ratio (NSFR), a rule requiring large banks to maintain a
minimum level of stable funding over a one-y ear period. The
final rule is intended to support the ability of banks to lend to
households and businesses in both norma l and adverse
economic conditions and is complementary to the LCR rule,
which focus es on short-term liquidity risks. The final rule is
effective July 1, 2021. The U.S. NSFR would apply to the
Corporation on a consolidated basis and to our insured
depository institutions. The Corporation expects to be in
compliance within the final NSFR rule in the regulatory timeline
provided and does not expect any significant impacts to the
Corporation.
Diversified Funding Sources
We fund our assets primarily with a mix of deposits, and secured
and unsec ured liabilit ies through a centra lized, globally
coordinated funding approach diversified across products,
programs, markets, currencies and investor groups.
The primary benefits of our centralized funding approach
include greater control, reduced funding costs, wider name
recognition by investors and greater flexibility to meet the
variable funding requirements of subsid iaries. Where
regulations, time zone differences or other business
considerations make parent company fundi ng impractical,
certain other subsidiaries may issue their own debt.
We fund a substantial portion of our lending activities through
our deposits, which were $1.80 trillion and $1.43 trillion at
December 31, 2020 and 2019. Deposits are primarily generated
by our Consumer Banking , GWIM  and Global Banking
segments. These deposits are diversified by clients, product
type and geography , and the majority of our U.S. deposits are
insured by the FDIC. We consider a substantia l portion of our
deposits to be a stable, low-cost and consis tent source of
funding. We believe this deposit funding is generally less
sensitive to interest rate changes, market volatili ty or changes in
our credit ratings than wholesale funding sources. Our lending
activities may also be financed through secured borrowings,
including credit card securitizations and securitizations with
government-sponsored enterprises (GSE), the FHA and private-
label investors, as well as FHLB loans.
Our trading activities in other regulated entities are primarily
funded on a secured basis through securities lending and
repurchase agreements, and these amounts will vary based on
customer activity and market conditions. We believe funding
these activities in the secured financing markets is more cost-
efficient and less sensiti ve to changes in our credit ratings than
unsecured financing. Repurchase agreements are generally
short-term and often overnight. Disruptions in secured financing
markets for financial institutions have occurred in prior market
cycles which resulted in adverse changes in terms or significant
Bank of America 58
reductions in the availab ility of such financing. We manage the
liquidity risks arising from secured funding by sourcing funding
globally from a diverse group of counterparties, providing a
range of securities collateral and pursuing longer durations,
when appropriate. For more information on secured financing
agreements, see Note 10 – Federal Funds Sold or Purchased,
Securities Financing Agreements, Short-term Borrowings and
Restricted Cash  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Total long-term debt increased $22.1 billion to $262.9 billion
during 2020, primarily due to debt issuances and valuation
adjustments, partially offset by maturities and redemptions. We
may, from time to time, purchase outstanding debt instruments
in various transactions, depending on market conditions, liquidity
and other factors. Our other regulated entities may also make
markets in our debt instruments to provide liquidity for investors.
During 2020, we issued $56.9 billion of long-term debt
consisting of $43.8 billion of notes issued by Bank of America
Corporation, substantially all of which was TLAC compliant, $4.8
billion of notes issued by Bank of America, N.A. and $8.3 billion
of other debt. During 2019, we issued $52.5 billion of long-term
debt consis ting of $29.3 billion of notes issued by Bank of
America Corporation, substantially all of which was TLAC
compliant, $10.9 billion of notes issued by Bank of America,
N.A. and $12.3 billion of other debt.
During 2020, we had total long-term debt maturities and
redemptions in the aggre gate of $47.1 billion consisting of $22.6
billion for Bank of America Corporation, $11.5 billion for Bank of
America, N.A. and $13.0 billion of other debt. During 2019, we
had total long-term debt maturities and redemptions in the
aggregate of $50.6 billion consisting of $21.1 billion for Bank of
America Corporation, $19.9 billion for Bank of America, N.A. and
$9.6 billion of other debt.
At December 31, 2020, Bank of America Corporation's senior
notes of $191.2 billion included $146.6 billion of outstanding
notes that are both TLAC eligible and callable at least one year
before their stated maturities. Of these senior notes, $12.0
billion will be callable and become TLAC ineligible during 2021,
and $15.3 billion, $14.6 billion, $11.7 billion and $13.2 billion will
do so during  each of 2022 through 2025, respectively , and $79.8
billion thereafter .
We issue long-term unse cured debt in a variety of maturities
and currencies to achieve cost-ef ficient funding and to maintain
an appropriate maturity profile. While the cost and availability of
unsecured funding may be negatively impacted by general
market conditions or by matters specific to the financial services
industry or the Corporat ion, we seek to mitigate refinancing risk
by actively managing the amount of our borrowings that we
anticipate will mature within any month or quarter . We may issue
unsecured debt in the form of structured notes for client
purposes, certain of which qualify as TLAC-eligible debt. During
2020, we issued $7.3 billion of structured notes, which are
unsecured debt obligations that pay investors returns linked to
other debt or equity  securities, indices, currencies or
commodities. We typically hedge the returns we are obligated to
pay on these  liabilities with derivatives and/or investments in the
underlying instruments, so that from a funding perspective, the
cost is similar to our other unsecured long-term debt. We could
be required to settle certain structured note obligations for cash
or other securities prior to maturity under certain circumstances,
which we consider for liquidity planning purposes. We believe,
however , that a portion of such borrowings will remain
outstanding beyond the earliest put or redemption date.Substantially all of our senior and subordinated debt
obligations contain no provisions that could trigger a
requirement for an early  repayment, require additional collateral
support, result in changes to terms, accelerate maturity or create
additional financial obligations upon an adverse change in our
credit ratings, financial ratios, earnings, cash flows or stock
price. For more information on long-term debt funding, including
issuances and maturities  and redemptions, see Note 11 – Long-
term Debt  to the Consolidated Financial Statements .
We use derivative transactions to manage the duration,
interest rate and currency risks of our borrowings, considering
the characte ristics of the assets they are funding. For more
information on our ALM activities, see Interest Rate Risk
Management for the Banking Book on page 82.
Contingency Planning
We maintain contingency funding plans that outline our potential
responses to liquidity stress events at various levels of severity .
These policies and plans are based on stress scenarios and
include potential funding strategies and communication and
notification procedures that we would implement  in the event we
experienced stressed liquidity conditions. We periodically review
and test the contingency funding plans to validate efficacy and
assess readiness.
Our U.S. bank subsidiar ies can access continge ncy funding
through the Federal Reserve Discount Window . Certain non-
U.S. subsidiaries have access to central bank facilities in the
jurisdictions in which they operate. While we do not rely on
these sources in our liquidity modeling, we maintain the policies,
procedures and governance processes that would enable us to
access these sources if necessary .
Credit Ratings
Our borrowing costs and ability to raise funds are impacted by
our credit ratings. In addition, credit ratings may be important to
customers or counterparties when we compete in certain
markets and when we seek to engage in certain transactions,
including over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives. Thus, it is our
objective to maintain  high-quality credit ratings, and
management maintains an active dialogue with the major rating
agencies.
Credit ratings and outlooks are opinions expressed by rating
agencies on our creditworthiness and that of our obligations or
securities, including long-term debt, short-term borrowings,
preferred stock and other securities, including asset
securitizations. Our credit ratings are subject to ongoing review
by the rating agencies, and they consider a number of factors,
including our own financial strength, performance, prospects
and operatio ns as well as factors not under our control. The
rating agenc ies could make adjustments to our ratings at any
time, and they provide no assurances that they will maintain our
ratings at current levels.
Other factors that influence our credit ratings include
changes to the rating agencies’ methodologies for our industry
or certain security types; the rating agencies’ assessment of the
general operating environment for financial services companies;
our relative positions in the markets in which we compete; our
various risk exposures and risk managemen t policies and
activities; pending litigation and other contingencies or potential
tail risks; our reputation; our liquidity position, diversity of funding
sources and funding costs; the current and expected level and
volatility of our earnings; our capital position and capital
management practices; our corporate governance; the
sovereign credit ratings of the U.S. government; current or future
regulatory and legislative
59 Bank of America
initiatives; and the agencies’ views on whether the U.S.
government would provide meaningful support to the
Corporation or its subsidiaries in a crisis.
On April 22, 2020, Fitch Ratings (Fitch) complet ed its review
of large, complex secur ities trading and univers al banks in the
U.S., including Bank of America, in response to declining
economic activity from the pandemic. The agency affirmed its
long-term and short-term senior debt ratings for the Corporation
and all of its rated subsidiaries, except for select issuer and
instrument-level ratings that had previously been placed under
criteria obse rvation on March 4, 2020, following changes in the
agency’ s bank rating criteria on February 28, 2020.
Concurrently , Fitch reached a conclusion on select under-
criteria-observation designations for the Corporation and
upgraded its long-term and short-term senior debt ratings of MLI
and BofASE by one notch to AA-/F1+. The agency also
upgraded its preferred stock rating for the Corporation by one
notch to BBB and down graded its subordinated debt rating for
the Corporation by one notch to A-. According to Fitch, ratingchanges under criteria observation are the sole result of bank
rating criter ia changes and do not reflect a change in the
underlying fundamentals of the institution. Fitch’ s outlook for all
of our long-term ratings is currently Stable.
On June 9, 2020, Fitch affirmed its rating for the
subordinated debt of BANA at A. This rating had remained
under criteria observation following Fitch’ s broader rating
actions.
On November 18, 2020, Moody’ s Investors Service
(Moody's) affirmed its long-term and short-term debt ratings for
the Corporation and all of its rated subsidiaries, which did not
change during 2020. Moody’ s outlook for all of our long-term
ratings is currently Stable.
The current ratings and Stable outlooks for the Corporation
and its subsidiaries from Standard & Poor ’s Global Ratings also
did not change during 2020.
Table 18 presents the Corporation’ s current long-term/short-
term senior debt ratings  and outlooks expressed by the rating
agencies.
Table 18Senior Debt Ratings
Moody’s Investors Service Standard & Poor’s Global Ratings Fitch Ratings
Long-term Short-term Outlook Long-term Short-term Outlook Long-term Short-term Outlook
Bank of America Corporation          A2         P-1       Stable         A-         A-2       Stable          A+         F1       Stable
Bank of America, N.A.         Aa2         P-1       Stable         A+         A-1       Stable         AA-         F1+       Stable
Bank of America Europe Designated
Activity Company          NR         NR         NR         A+         A-1       Stable         AA-         F1+       Stable
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated          NR         NR         NR         A+         A-1       Stable         AA-         F1+       Stable
BofA Securities, Inc.          NR         NR         NR         A+         A-1       Stable         AA-         F1+       Stable
Merrill Lynch International          NR         NR         NR         A+         A-1       Stable         AA-         F1+       Stable
BofA Securities Europe SA          NR         NR         NR         A+         A-1       Stable         AA-         F1+       Stable
NR = not rated
A reduction in certain of our credit ratings or the ratings of
certain asset-backed securitizations may have a material
adverse effect on our liquidity , potential loss of access to credit
markets, the related cost of funds, our businesses and on
certain revenues, particularly in those businesses where
counterparty creditworthiness is critical. In addition, under the
terms of certain OTC derivative contracts and other trading
agreements, in the event of downgrades of our or our rated
subsidiaries’ credit ratings, the counterpar ties to those
agreements may require us to provide additional collateral, or to
terminate these contracts or agreements, which could cause us
to sustain losses and/or adversely impact our liquidity . If the
short-term credit ratings  of our parent company , bank or broker-
dealer subsi diaries were  downgraded by one or more levels, the
potential loss of access to short-term funding sources such as
repo financin g and the effect on our increment al cost of funds
could be material.While certa in potentia l impacts are contractual and
quantifiable, the full scop e of the consequences of a credit rating
downgrade to a financial institution is inherently uncertain, as it
depends upon numerou s dynamic, complex and inter-related
factors and assumptions, including whether any downgrade of a
company’ s long-term credit ratings precipitates downgrades to
its short-term credit ratings, and assumptions about the potential
behaviors of various customers, investors and counterparties.
For more information on potential impacts of credit rating
downgrades, see Liquidity Risk – Liquidity Stress Analysis on
page 58.
For more information on additional collateral and termination
payments that could be required in connection with certain over-
the-counter derivative contracts and other trading agreements in
the event of a credit rating downgrade, see Note 3 – Derivatives
to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I. Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
 
Bank of America 60
Common Stock Dividends
For a summary of our declared quarterly cash dividends on
common stock during 2020 and through February 24, 2021, see
Note 13 – Shareholders’ Equity  to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
Finance Subsidiary Issuers and Parent
Guarantor
BofA Finance LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (BofA
Finance), is a consolidated finance subsidiary of the Corporation
that has issued and sold, and is expected to continue to issue
and sell, its senior unsecured debt securitie s (Guaranteed
Notes), that are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the
Corporation. The Corporation guarantees the due and punctual
payment, on demand, of amounts payable on the Guaranteed
Notes if not paid by BofA Finance. In addition , each of BAC
Capital Trust XIII and BAC Capital Trust XIV, Delaware statutory
trusts (collectively , the Trusts), is a 100 percen t owned finance
subsidiary of the Corporation that has issued  and sold trust
preferred securities (the Trust Preferred Securities and, together
with the Guaranteed Notes, the Guaranteed Securities) that
remained outstanding at December 31, 2020. The Corporation
guarantees the payment of amounts and distributions with
respect to the T rust Preferred Securities if not paid by the T rusts,
to the extent of funds held by the Trusts, and this guarantee,
together with the Corporation’ s other obligations with respect to
the Trust Preferred Securities, effectively constitutes a full and
unconditional guarantee  of the Trusts’ payment obligations on
the Trust Preferred Securities. No other subsidiary of the
Corporation guarantees the Guaranteed Securities.
BofA Finance and each of the Trusts are finance
subsidiaries, have no independent assets,  revenues or
operations and are dependent upon the Corporation and/or the
Corporation’ s other subsidiaries to meet their respective
obligations under the Guaranteed Securities in the ordinary
course. If holders of the Guaranteed Securities make claims on
their Guaranteed Securities in a bankruptcy , resolution or similar
proceeding, any recoveries on those claims will be limited to
those available under the applicable guarantee by the
Corporation, as described above.
The Corporation is a holding company and depe nds upon its
subsidiaries for liquidity . Applicable laws and regulations and
intercompany arrangeme nts entered into in connection with the
Corporation’ s resolution  plan could restrict the availability of
funds from subsidiaries to the Corporation, which could
adversely affect the Corporation’ s ability to make payments
under its guarantees. In addition, the obligations of the
Corporation under the guarantees of the Guaranteed Securities
will be structurally subordinated to all existing and future
liabilities of its subsidiar ies, and claimants should look only to
assets of the Corporatio n for payments. If the Corporation, as
guarantor of the Guaranteed Notes, transfers all or substantially
all of its assets to one or more direct or indirect majority-owned
subsidiaries, under the indenture governing the Guaranteed
Notes, the subsidiary or subsidiaries will not be required to
assume the Corporation’ s obligations under its guarantee of the
Guaranteed Notes.
For more information on factors that may affect payments to
holders of the Guarante ed Securities, see Liquidity Risk – NB
Holdings Corporation in this section, Item 1. Business –
Insolvency and the Orderly Liquidation Authority on page 5 and
Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors – Liquidity on page 9.Credit Risk Management
Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from the inability or failure of
a borrower or counterparty to meet its obligations. Credit risk
can also arise from operational failures that result in an
erroneous advance, commitment or investment of funds. We
define the credit exposu re to a borrower or counterparty as the
loss potentia l arising from all product classific ations including
loans and leases, deposit overdrafts, derivative s, assets held-
for-sale and unfunded lending commitments which include loan
commitments, letters of credit and financial guarantees.
Derivative positions are recorded at fair value and assets held-
for-sale are recorded at either fair value or the lower of cost or
fair value. Certain loans and unfunded commitments are
accounted for under the fair value option. Credit risk for
categories of assets carried at fair value is not accounted for as
part of the allowance for credit losses but as part of the fair
value adjustments recorded in earnings. For derivative positions,
our credit risk is meas ured as the net cost in the event the
counterparties with contracts in which we are in a gain position
fail to perfor m under the terms of those contracts. We use the
current fair value to represent credit exposure without giving
consideration to future mark-to-market changes . The credit risk
amounts take into consideration the effects of legally
enforceable master netting agreements and cash collateral. Our
consumer and commercial credit extensio n and review
procedures encompass funded and unfunded credit exposures.
For more information on derivatives and credit extension
commitments, see Note 3 – Derivatives  and Note 12 –
Commitments and Contingencies  to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
We manage credit risk based on the risk profile of the
borrower or counterparty , repayment sources , the nature of
underlying collateral, and other support given current events,
conditions and expectations. We classify our portfolios as either
consumer or commercial and monitor credit risk in each as
discussed below .
We refine our underwriting and credit risk management
practices as well as credit standards to meet the changing
economic environment . To mitigate losses and enhance
customer support in our consumer businesses, we have in place
collection programs and loan modification and customer
assistance infrastructures. We utilize a number of actions to
mitigate losses in the commercial businesses including
increasing the frequency and intensity of portfolio monitoring,
hedging activity and our practice of transferring management of
deteriorating commercial exposures to independent special
asset of ficers as credits enter criticized categories .
For information on our credit risk management activities, see
Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management below , Commercial
Portfolio Credit Risk Management on page 68, Non-U.S.
Portfolio on page 74, Allowance for Credit Loss es on page 76,
and Note 5 – Outstanding Loans and Leases and Allowance for
Credit Losses  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
During 2020 , the pandemic negatively impacted economic
activity in the U.S. and around the world. In particular , beginning
in the latter portion of the first quarter of 2020, the pandemic
resulted in changes to consumer and business behaviors and
restrictions on economic activity . These restrictions gave rise to
increased unemployment and underemployment, lower business
profits, increased business closures and bankruptcies,
fluctuations and disruptions to commercial and consumer
spending and markets, and lower global GDP, all of which
negatively impacted our consumer and commercial credit
portfolio.
61 Bank of America
To provide relief to individuals and businesses in the U.S.,
economic stimulus packages were enacted throughout 2020,
including the CARES Act, an executive order signed in August
2020 to establish the Lost Wage Assistance Program, and most
recently , the Consolidated Appropriations Act enacted in
December 2020. In addition, U.S. bank regulatory agencies
issued interagency guidance to financial institu tions that have
worked with and continue to work with borrow ers affected by
COVID-19.
To support our customers, we implemented various loan
modification programs and other forms of support beginning in
March 2020, including of fering loan payment deferrals, refunding
certain fees, and pausing foreclosure sales,  evictions and
repossessions. Since June 2020, we have experienced a
decline in the need for customer assistance as the number of
customer accounts and balances on deferral decreased
significantly . For information on the accou nting for loan
modifications related to the pandemic, see Note 1 – Summary of
Significant Accounting Principles  to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
Furthermore, as COVID-19 cases eased and initial
restrictions lifted, the global economy began to improve. This
improvement, coupled with the aforementioned relief, facilitated
economic recovery , with unemployment dropping from double-
digit highs in the second quarter of 2020 and GDP significantly
rebounding in the third quarter of 2020.
However , economic recovery remains uneven, with certain
sectors of the economy more significantly impacted from the
pandemic (e.g., travel and entertainment). As a result, we have
experienced increases in commercial reservable criticized
utilized exposures driven by industries most heavily impacted by
COVID-19. Also, we have seen modest  increases in
nonperforming loans driven by commercial loans and consumer
real estate customer deferral activities, though consumer
charge-of fs remained low during 2020 due to payment deferrals
and government stimulus benefits.
The pandemic and its full impact on the global economy
continue to be highly uncertain. While COVID-19 cases have
begun to ease from their January 2021 peak, the spread of new,
more contagious variants could impact the magnitude and
duration of this health crisis. However , ongoing virus
containment efforts and vaccination progress, as well as the
possibility of further government stimulus, could  accelerate the
macroeconomic recove ry. For more informatio n on how the
pandemic may affect our operations, see Executive Summary –
Recent Developments – COVID-19 Pandemic on page 25 and
Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors – Coronavirus Disease on page 7.Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management
Credit risk management for the consumer portfolio begins with
initial underw riting and continues throughout a borrower ’s credit
cycle. Statistical techniques in conjunction with experiential
judgment are used in all aspects of portfolio management
including underwriting, product pricing, risk appetite, setting
credit limits,  and establishing operating process es and metrics
to quantify and balance risks and returns. Statis tical models are
built using detailed behavioral information from external sources
such as credit bureaus and/or internal historical experience and
are a component of our consumer credit risk management
process. These models are used in part to assis t in making both
new and ongoing credit decisions, as well as portfolio
management strategies, including authorizations and line
management, collection practices and strategies, and
determination of the allowance for loan and lease losses and
allocated capital for credit risk.
Consumer Credit Portfolio
While COVID-19 is severely impacting economic activity , and is
contributing to increasing nonperforming loans  within certain
consumer portfolios, it did not have a significant impact on
consumer portfolio charge-of fs during 2020 due to payment
deferrals and governme nt stimulus benefits. However , COVID-
19 could lead to adverse impacts to credit quality metrics in
future periods if nega tive economic conditions continue or
worsen. During 2020, net charge-of fs decreased $334 million to
$2.7 billion primarily due to lower credit card losses.
The consumer allowance for loan and lease losses increased
$5.5 billion in 2020 to $10.1 billion due to the adoption of the
new CECL  accounting standard and deterioration in the
economic outlook resulting from the impact of COVID-19. For
more information, see Allowance for Credit Losses on page 76.
For more information on our accounting polici es regarding
delinquencies, nonperforming status, charge-of fs, TDRs for the
consumer portfolio, as well as interest accrual policies and
delinquency status for loan modifications related to the
pandemic, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting
Principles  and Note 5 – Outstanding Loans and Leases and
Allowance for Credit Losses  to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
Table 19 presents our outstanding consumer loans and
leases, cons umer nonpe rforming loans and accruing consumer
loans past due 90 days or more.
Bank of America 62
Table 19Consumer Credit Quality
 Outstandings NonperformingAccruing Past Due
90 Days or More
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
Residential mortgage $ 223,555 $ 236,169 $ 2,005 $ 1,470 $ 762 $ 1,088 
Home equity 34,311 40,208 649 536 — — 
Credit card 78,708 97,608 n/a n/a 903 1,042 
Direct/Indirect consumer 91,363 90,998 71 47 33 33 
Other consumer 124 192 — — — — 
Consumer loans excluding loans accounted for
under the fair value option $ 428,061 $ 465,175 $ 2,725 $ 2,053 $ 1,698 $ 2,163 
Loans accounted for under the fair value option 735 594 
Total consumer loans and leases $ 428,796 $ 465,769 
Percentage of outstanding consumer loans and leases n/a n/a 0.64 % 0.44 % 0.40 % 0.47 %
Percentage of outstanding consumer loans and leases,
excluding fully-insured loan portfolios n/a n/a 0.65 0.46 0.22 0.24 
Residential mortga ge loans accruing past due 90 days or more are fully-insured loans. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, residential mortgage includes $537 million and $740 million of loans on
which interest had been curtailed by the FHA, and therefore were no longer accruing interest, although principal was still insured, and $225 million and $348 million of loans on which interest was
still accruing.
Outstandings primarily include auto and specialty lending loans and leases of $46.4 billion and $50.4 billion, U.S. securities-based lending loans of $41.1 billion and $36.7 billion and non-U.S.
consumer loans of $3.0 billion and $2.8 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option include residential mortgage loans of $298 million and $257 million and home equity loans of $437 million and $337 million at
December 31, 2020 and 2019. For more information on the fair value option, see Note 21 – Fair V alue Option  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Excludes consume r loans accounted for under the fair value option. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, $11 million and $6 million of loans accounted for under the fair value option were past due 90
days or more and not accruing interest.
n/a = not applicable
Table 20 presents net charge-of fs and related ratios for consumer loans and leases.
Table 20Consumer Net Charge-offs and Related Ratios
Net Charge-offs Net Charge-off Ratios 
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2020 2019
Residential mortgage $ (30)$ (47) (0.01)% (0.02)%
Home equity (73) (358) (0.19) (0.81)
Credit card 2,349 2,948 2.76 3.12 
Direct/Indirect consumer 122 209 0.14 0.23 
Other consumer 284 234 n/m n/m
Total $ 2,652 $ 2,986 0.59 0.66 
Net charge-of f ratios are calculated as net charge-of fs divided by average outstanding loans and leases excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option.
n/m = not meaningful
Table 21 presents outstandings, nonperforming balances, net
charge-of fs, allowance for credit losses and provision for credit
losses for the core and non-core portfolios within the consumer
real estate portfolio. We categorize consumer real estate loans
as core and non-core based on loan and customer
characteristics such as origination date, produ ct type, loan-to
value (LTV), Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) score and
delinquency status consistent with our current consumer and
mortgage servicing strategy . Generally , loans that were
originated after January 1, 2010, qualifie d under GSE
underwriting guidelines , or otherwise met our underwriting
guidelines in place in 2015are characterized as core loans. All other loans are generally
characterized as non-core loans and represent runoff portfolios.
Core loans as reported in Table 21 include loans held in the
Consumer Banking  and GWIM  segments, as well as loans held
for ALM activities in All Other .
As shown in Table 21, outstanding core consumer real estate
loans decrea sed $15.4 billion during 2020 driven  by a decrease
of $10.5 billion in residential mortgage and a $4.9 billion
decrease in home equity . (1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(1)
63 Bank of America
Table 21Consumer Real Estate Portfolio 
Outstandings Nonperforming
December 31 Net Charge-offs
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
Core portfolio     
Residential mortgage $ 215,273 $ 225,770 $ 1,390 $ 883 $ (25)$ 7 
Home equity 30,328 35,226 462 363 (6) 51 
Total core portfolio 245,601 260,996 1,852 1,246 (31) 58 
Non-core portfolio    
Residential mortgage 8,282 10,399 615 587 (5) (54)
Home equity 3,983 4,982 187 173 (67) (409)
Total non-core portfolio 12,265 15,381 802 760 (72) (463)
Consumer real estate portfolio     
 Residential mortgage 223,555 236,169 2,005 1,470 (30) (47)
 Home equity 34,311 40,208 649 536 (73) (358)
Total consumer real estate portfolio $ 257,866 $ 276,377 $ 2,654 $ 2,006 $ (103)$ (405)
Allowance for Loan
 and Lease LossesProvision for Loan
 and Lease Losses December 31
2020 2019 2020 2019
Core portfolio
Residential mortgage $ 374 $ 229 $ 136 $ 22 
Home equity 599 120 135 (58)
Total core portfolio 973 349 271 (36)
Non-core portfolio   
Residential mortgage 85 96 75 (134)
 Home equity (63) 101 (21) (510)
Total non-core portfolio 22 197 54 (644)
Consumer real estate portfolio   
 Residential mortgage 459 325 211 (112)
 Home equity 536 221 114 (568)
Total consumer real estate portfolio $ 995 $ 546 $ 325 $ (680)
Outstandings and nonperforming loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option include residential mortgage loans of
$298 million and $257 million and home equity loans of $437 million and $337 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019. For more information, see Note 21 – Fair Value Option  to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
The home equity non-core allowance is in a negative position at December 31, 2020 as it includes expected recoveries of amounts previously charged of f.
Home equity allowance includes a reserve for unfunded lending commitments of $137 million at December 31, 2020.
We believe that the presentation of information adjusted to
exclude the impact of the fully-insured loan portfolio and loans
accounted for under the fair value option is more representative
of the ongoi ng operation s and credit quality of the business. As
a result, in the following tables and discussions of the residential
mortgage and home equity portfolios, we exclude loans
accounted for under the fair value option and provide
information that excludes the impact of the fully-insured loan
portfolio in certain credit quality statistics.
Residential Mortgage
The reside ntial mortgage portfolio made up the largest
percentage of our consumer loan portfolio at 52 percent of
consumer loans and leases at Decemb er 31, 2020.
Approximately 52 percent of the residential mortgage portfolio
was in Consumer Banking  and 40 percent was in GWIM. The
remaining portion was in All Other  and was comprised of loans
used in our overall ALM activities, delinquent FHA loansrepurchased pursuant to our servicing agreements with the
Government National Mortgage Association as well as loans
repurchased related to our representations and warranties.
Outstanding balances in the residential mortgage portfolio
decreased $12.6 billion in 2020 as both loan sales and
paydowns were partially of fset by originations.
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the residential mortgage
portfolio included $11.8 billion and $18.7 billion of outstanding
fully-insured loans, of which $2.8 billion and $11.2 billion had
FHA insurance, with the remainder protected by Fannie Mae
long-term standby agreements. The decline was primarily driven
by sales of loans with FHA insurance during 2020.
Table 22 presents certain residential mortgag e key credit
statistics on both a reported basis and excluding the fully-
insured loan portfolio. The following discussio n presents the
residential mortgage portfolio excluding the fully-insured loan
portfolio.(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
Bank of America 64
Table 22Residential Mortgage – Key Credit
Statistics
Reported Basis Excluding Fully-insured Loans
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2020 2019
Outstandings $ 223,555 $ 236,169 $ 211,737 $ 217,479 
Accruing past due 30 days or more 2,314 3,108 1,224 1,296 
Accruing past due 90 days or more 762 1,088 — — 
Nonperforming loans 2,005 1,470 2,005 1,470 
Percent of portfolio     
Refreshed LTV greater than 90 but less than or equal to 100 2 % 2 % 1 % 2 %
Refreshed LTV greater than 100 1 1 1 1 
Refreshed FICO below 620 2 3 1 2 
2006 and 2007 vintages 3 4 3 4 
Outstandings, accruing past due, nonperforming loans and percentages of portfolio exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. For information on our interest accrual policies and
delinquency status for loan modifications related to the pandemic, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Includes loans that are contractually  current which primarily consist of collateral-dependent TDRs, including those that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy and loans that have not yet
demonstrated a sustained period of payment performance following a TDR.
These vintages of loans accounted for $503 million and $365 million, or 25 percent, of nonperforming residential mortgage loans at both December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Nonperforming outstan ding balances in the residential
mortgage portfolio increased $535 million in 2020 primarily
driven by COVID-19 deferral activity , as well as the inclusion of
certain loans that, upon adoption of the new credit loss
standard, became accounted for on an individual basis, which
previously had been accounted for under a pool basis. Of the
nonperforming resident ial mortgage loans at December 31,
2020, $892 million, or 45 percent, were current on contractual
payments. Loans accruing past due 30 days or more decreased
$72 million.
Net charge- offs increas ed $17 million to a net recovery of
$30 million in 2020 compared to a net recovery of $47 million in
2019. This increase is due largely to lower recoveries from the
sales of previously charged-of f loans.
Of the $211.7 billion in total residential mortgage loans
outstanding at December 31, 2020, as shown in Table 22, 27
percent were  originated as interest-only loans. The outstanding
balance of interest-only  residential mortgage loans that have
entered the amortization period was $5.9 billion , or 10 percent,
at December 31, 2020. Residential mortgage loans that have
entered the amortization period generally have  experienced a
higher rate of early stage delinquencies and nonperforming
status compared to the residential mortgage portfolio as a
whole. At December 31, 2020, $113 million, or two percent of
outstanding interest-only residential mortgages that had enteredthe amortiza tion period were accruing past due 30 days or more
compared to $1.2 billion, or less than one percent, for the entire
residential mortgage portfolio. In addition, at December 31,
2020, $356 million, or six percent, of outstanding interest-only
residential mortgage loans that had entered the amortization
period were nonperforming, of which $96 million were
contractually current, compared to $2.0 billion, or one percent,
for the entire  residential mortgage portfolio. Loans that have yet
to enter the amortization period in our interest-only residential
mortgage portfolio are primarily well-collateraliz ed loans to our
wealth management clients and have an interest-only period of
three to ten years. Approximately 98 percent of these loans that
have yet to enter the amortization period will not be required to
make a fully-amortizing payment until 2022 or later .
Table 23 presents outstandings, nonperformin g loans and
net charge-of fs by certain state concentrations for the residential
mortgage portfolio. The Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana
Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) within California represented
16 percent of outstand ings at both December 31, 2020 and
2019. In the New Y ork area, the New Y ork-Northern New Jersey-
Long Island MSA made up 14 percent and 13 percent of
outstandings at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Table 23Residential Mortgage State Concentrations
Outstandings Nonperforming 
December 31 Net Charge-offs
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
California $ 83,185 $ 88,998 $ 570 $ 274 $ (18)$ (22)
New York 23,832 22,385 272 196 3 5 
Florida 13,017 12,833 175 143 (5) (12)
Texas 8,868 8,943 78 65 — 1 
New Jersey 8,806 8,734 98 77 (1) (4)
Other 74,029 75,586 812 715 (9) (15)
Residential mortgage loans $ 211,737 $ 217,479 $ 2,005 $ 1,470 $ (30)$ (47)
Fully-insured loan portfolio 11,818 18,690   
Total residential mortgage loan portfolio $ 223,555 $ 236,169   
Outstandings and nonperforming loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.
Home Equity
At December 31, 2020, the home equity portfolio made up eight
percent of the consumer portfolio and was comprised of home
equity lines of credit (HELOCs), home equity loans and reverse
mortgages. HELOCs generally have an initial draw period of 10
years, and after the initial draw period ends, the loans generallyconvert to 15- or 20-year amortizing loans. We no longer
originate home equity loans or reverse mortgages.
At December 31, 2020 , 80 percent of the home equity
portfolio was in Consumer Banking , 12 percent was in All Other
and the remainder of the portfolio was primarily in GWIM .
Outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio decreased(1)  (1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
 (1) (1)
(1)
65 Bank of America
$5.9 billion in 2020 primarily due to paydowns outpacing new
originations and draws on existing lines. Of the total home equity
portfolio at December 31, 2020 and 2019, $13.8 billion, or 40
percent, and $15.0 billion, or 37 percent, were in first-lien
positions. At December 31, 2020, outstanding balances in the
home equity portfolio that were in a second-lien or more junior-
lien position and where we also held the first-lien loan totaled$5.9 billion, or 17 percent, of our total home equity portfolio.
Unused HELOCs totaled $42.3 billion and $43.6 billion at
December 31, 2020 and 2019. The HELOC utilization rate was
43 percent and 46 percent at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Table 24 presents certain home equity portfolio key credit
statistics.
Table 24Home Equity – Key Credit Statistics 
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Outstandings $ 34,311 $ 40,208 
Accruing past due 30 days or more 186 218 
Nonperforming loans 649 536 
Percent of portfolio
Refreshed CLTV greater than 90 but less than or equal to 100 1 % 1 %
Refreshed CLTV greater than 100 1 2 
Refreshed FICO below 620 3 3 
2006 and 2007 vintages 16 18 
Outstandings, accruing past due, nonperforming loans and percentages of the portfolio exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. For information on our interest accrual policies and
delinquency status for loan modifications related to the pandemic, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Accruing past due 30 days or more  include $25 million and $30 million and nonperforming loans include $88 million and $57 million of loans where we serviced the underlying first lien at
December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Includes loans that are contractually  current which primarily consist of collateral-dependent TDRs, including those that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy , junior-lien loans where the
underlying first lien is 90 days or more past due, as well as loans that have not yet demonstrated a sustained period of payment performance following a TDR.
These vintages of loans accounted for 36 percent and 34 percent of nonperforming home equity loans at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Nonperforming outstand ing balances in the home equity
portfolio increased $113 million during 2020 primarily driven by
COVID-19 deferral activity . Of the nonperforming home equity
loans at December 31, 2020, $259 million, or 40 percent, were
current on contractual payments. In addition, $237 million, or 36
percent, of nonperformin g home equity loans were 180 days or
more past due and had been written down to the estimated fair
value of the collateral, less costs to sell. Accruing loans that
were 30 days or more past due decreased $32 million in 2020.
Net charge-of fs increased $285 million to a net recovery of
$73 million in 2020 compared to a net recovery of $358 million in
2019 as the prior-year period included recoveries from non-core
home equity loan sales.
Of the $34.3 billion in total home equity portfolio outstandings
at December 31, 2020, as shown in Table 24, 15 percent require
interest-only payments. The outstanding balance of HELOCs
that have reached the end of their draw period and have entered
the amortization period was $9.2 billion at Dece mber 31, 2020.
The HELOCs that have entered the amortization period have
experienced a higher percentage of early stage delinquencies
and nonper forming status when compared to the HELOC
portfolio as a whole. At December 31, 2020, $121 million, or one
percent of outstanding HELOCs that had entered the
amortization period were accruing past due 30days or more. In additio n, at December 31, 2020, $477 million,
or five percent, were nonperforming. Loans that have yet to
enter the amortization period in our interest-only portfolio are
primarily post-2008 vintages and generally have better credit
quality than the previous vintages that had entered the
amortization period. We communicate to contractually current
customers more than a year prior to the end of their draw period
to inform them of the potential change to the payment structure
before entering the amortization period, and provide payment
options to customers prior to the end of the draw period.
Although we do not actively track how many of our home
equity customers pay only the minimum amount due on their
home equity loans and lines, we can infer some of this
information through a review of our HELOC portfolio that we
service and that is still in its revolving period. During 2020, nine
percent of these custom ers with an outstanding balance did not
pay any principal on their HELOCs.
Table 25 presents outstandings, nonperforming balances and
net charge-of fs by certain state concentrations for the home
equity portfo lio. In the New York area, the New York-Northern
New Jersey-Long Island MSA made up 13 percent of the
outstanding home equity portfolio at both December 31, 2020
and 2019. The Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana MSA within
California made up 11 percent of the outstandi ng home equity
portfolio at both December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Table 25Home Equity State Concentrations
Outstandings Nonperforming 
December 31 Net Charge-offs
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
California $ 9,488 $ 11,232 $ 143 $ 101 $ (26)$ (117)
Florida 3,715 4,327 80 71 (11) (74)
New Jersey 2,749 3,216 67 56 (3) (8)
New York 2,495 2,899 103 85 (1) (1)
Massachusetts 1,719 2,023 32 29 (1) (5)
Other 14,145 16,511 224 194 (31) (153)
Total home equity loan portfolio $ 34,311 $ 40,208 $ 649 $ 536 $ (73)$ (358)
Outstandings and nonperforming loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.(1)
(2)
(2, 3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1) (1)
(1)
BankofAmerica66
Bank of America 66
Credit Card
At December 31, 2020,  97 percent of the credit card portfolio
was managed in Consumer Banking  with the remainder in
GWIM . Outstandings in the credit card portfolio decreased $18.9
billion in 2020 to $78.7 billion due to lower retail spending and
higher payments. Net charge-of fs decreased $599 million to
$2.3 billion during 2020  compared to net charge-of fs of $2.9
billion in 2019 due to government stimulus benefits and payment
deferrals associated with COVID-19. Credit card loans 30 daysor more past due and still accruing interest decreased $346
million, and loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing
interest decreased $139 million primarily due to government
stimulus benefits and declines in loan balances.
Unused lines of credit for credit card increased to $342.4
billion at December 31, 2020 from $336.9 billion in 2019.
Table 26 presents certain state concentrations for the credit
card portfolio.
Table 26Credit Card State Concentrations
OutstandingsAccruing Past Due
90 Days or More 
December 31 Net Charge-offs
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
California $ 12,543 $ 16,135 $ 166 $ 178 $ 419 $ 526 
Florida 7,666 9,075 135 135 306 363 
Texas 6,499 7,815 87 93 202 241 
New York 4,654 5,975 76 80 188 243 
Washington 3,685 4,639 21 26 56 71 
Other 43,661 53,969 418 530 1,178 1,504 
Total credit card portfolio $ 78,708 $ 97,608 $ 903 $ 1,042 $ 2,349 $ 2,948 
For information on our interest accrual policies and delinquency status for loan modifications related to the pandemic, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Direct/Indirect Consumer
At December 31, 2020, 51 percent of the direct/indirect portfolio
was included in Consumer Banking  (consumer auto and
recreational vehicle lending) and 49 percent was included in
GWIM  (princ ipally securities-based lending loans). Outstandingsin the direct /indirect portfolio increased $365 million in 2020 to
$91.4 billion  primarily due to increases in securities-based
lending of fset by lower originations in Auto.
Table 27 presents certain state concentrati ons for the
direct/indirect consumer loan portfolio.
Table 27Direct/Indirect State Concentrations
OutstandingsAccruing Past Due 
 90 Days or More 
December 31 Net Charge-offs
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
California $ 12,248 $ 11,912 $ 6 $ 4 $ 20 $ 49 
Florida 10,891 10,154 4 4 20 27 
Texas 8,981 9,516 6 5 20 29 
New York 6,609 6,394 2 1 9 12 
New Jersey 3,572 3,468 — 1 2 4 
Other 49,062 49,554 15 18 51 88 
Total direct/indirect loan portfolio $ 91,363 $ 90,998 $ 33 $ 33 $ 122 $ 209 
For information on our interest accrual policies and delinquency status for loan modifications related to the pandemic, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Nonperforming Consumer Loans, Leases and
Foreclosed Properties Activity
Table 28 presents nonperforming consumer loans, leases and
foreclosed properties activity during 2020 and 2019. During
2020, nonperforming consumer loans increased  $672 million to
$2.7 billion primarily driven by COVID-19 deferral activity , as well
as the inclusion of $144 million of certain loans that were
previously classified as purchased credit-impaired loans and
accounted for under a pool basis.
At Decemb er 31, 2020, $892 million, or 33 percent of
nonperforming loans were 180 days or more past due and had
been written  down to their estimated property value less costs to
sell. In addition, at December 31, 2020, $1.2 billion, or 45
percent of nonperformin g consumer loans were modified and
are now current after successful trial periods, or are currentloans classi fied as nonperforming loans in accordance with
applicable policies.
Foreclosed properties decreased $106 million  in 2020 to
$123 million as the Corporation has paused formal loan
foreclosure proceedings  and foreclosure sales for occupied
properties during 2020.
Nonperforming loans also include certain loans that have
been modified in TDRs where economic concessions have been
granted to borrowers experiencing financial difficulties.
Nonperforming TDRs are included in Table 28. For more
information on our loan modification progra ms offered in
response to the pandemic, most of which are not TDRs, see
Executive Summary – Recent Development s – COVID-19
Pandemic on page 25 and Note 1 – Summary of Significant
Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
67 Bank of America
Table 28Nonperforming Consumer Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Nonperforming loans and leases, January 1 $ 2,053 $ 3,842 
Additions 2,278 1,407 
Reductions:
Paydowns and payoffs (440) (701)
Sales (38) (1,523)
Returns to performing status (1,014) (766)
Charge-offs (78) (111)
Transfers to foreclosed properties (36) (95)
Total net additions/(reductions) to nonperforming loans and leases 672 (1,789)
Total nonperforming loans and leases, December 31 2,725 2,053 
Foreclosed properties, December 31 123 229 
Nonperforming consumer loans, leases and foreclosed properties, December 31 $ 2,848 $ 2,282 
Nonperforming consumer loans and leases as a percentage of outstanding consumer loans and leases 0.64 % 0.44 %
Nonperforming consumer loans, leases and foreclosed properties as a percentage of outstanding consumer loans, leases and
foreclosed properties 0.66 0.49 
Consumer loans may be returned to performing status when all principal and interest is current and full repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest is expected, or when the loan
otherwise becomes well-secured and is in the process of collection.
Foreclosed property balances do not include properties insured by certai n government-guaranteed loans, principally FHA-insured, of $119 million  and $260 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Outstanding consumer loans and leases exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.
Table 29 presents TDRs  for the consumer real estate portfolio. Performing TDR balances are excluded from nonperforming loans
and leases in Table 28. For more information on our loan modification programs offered in respo nse to the pandemic, most of which
are not TDRs, see Executive Summary – Recent Developments – COVID-19 Pandemic on page 25 and Note 1 – Summary of
Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Table 29Consumer Real Estate Troubled Debt Restructurings
December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
(Dollars in millions) Nonperforming Performing Total Nonperforming Performing Total
Residential mortgage $ 1,195 $ 2,899 $ 4,094 $ 921 $ 3,832 $ 4,753 
Home equity 248 836 1,084 252 977 1,229 
Total consumer real estate troubled debt
restructurings $ 1,443 $ 3,735 $ 5,178 $ 1,173 $ 4,809 $ 5,982 
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, residential mortgage TDRs deemed collateral dependent totaled $1.4 billion and $1.2 billion, and included $1.0 billion and $748 million of loans classified as
nonperforming and $361 million and $468 million of loans classified as performing.
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, residential mortgage performing TDRs include $1.5 billion and $2.1 billion of loans that were fully-insured.
At Decem ber 31, 2020 and 2019, home equity TDRs deemed collate ral dependent totaled $407 million and $442 million, and include $216 million and $209 million of loans classified as
nonperforming and $191 million and $233 million of loans classified as performing.
In addition to modifying consumer real estate loans, we work
with custom ers who are experiencing financial difficulty by
modifying credit card and other consumer loans. Credit card and
other consumer loan modifications generally involve a reduction
in the custo mer’s intere st rate on the account and placing the
customer on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60 months.
Modifications of credit card and other consumer loans are
made through programs utilizing direct customer contact, but
may also utilize externa l programs. At December 31, 2020 and
2019, our credit card and other consumer TDR portfolio was
$701 million  and $679 million, of which $614 million and $570
million were current or less than 30 days past due under the
modified terms.
Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk
Management
Credit risk management for the commercial portfolio begins with
an assessment of the credit risk profile of the borrower or
counterparty based on an analysis of its financial position. As
part of the overall credit risk assessment, our commercial credit
exposures are assigned a risk rating and are subject to approval
based on defined credit approval standards. Subsequent to loan
origination, risk ratings are monitored on an ongoing basis, and
if necessary , adjusted to reflect changes in the financial
condition, cash flow, risk profile or outlook of a borrower or
counterparty . In making credit decisions, we consider risk rating,
collateral, country , industry and single-name concentration limits
while also balancing these considerations with the totalborrower or counterparty relationship. We use a variety of tools
to continuou sly monitor the ability of a borrower or counterparty
to perform under its oblig ations. We use risk rating aggregations
to measure and evaluate concentrations within portfolios. In
addition, risk ratings are a factor in determin ing the level of
allocated capital and the allowance for credit losses.
As part of our ongoing risk mitigation initiatives , we attempt
to work with clients experiencing financial difficulty to modify
their loans to terms that better align with their current ability to
pay. In situations where an economic concession has been
granted to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty , we identify
these loans as TDRs. For more information on our accounting
policies regarding delinq uencies, nonperforming  status and net
charge-of fs for the commercial portfolio, see Note 1 – Summary
of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated
Financial Statements .
Management of Commercial Credit Risk
Concentrations
Commercial credit risk is evaluated and managed with the goal
that concentrations of credit exposure continue to be aligned
with our risk appetite. We review , measure and manage
concentrations of credit exposure by industry , product,
geography , customer relationship and loan size. We also review ,
measure and manage commercial real estate loans by
geographic location and property type. In addition, within our(1)
(2)
(3)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(1, 2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
Bank of America 68
non-U.S. portfolio, we evaluate exposures by region and by
country . Tables 34, 37 and 40 summarize our concentrations.
We also utilize syndications of exposure to third parties, loan
sales, hedging and other risk mitigation techniques to manage
the size and risk profile of the commercial credit portfolio. For
more information on our industry concentrations, see
Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Managem ent – Industry
Concentrations on page 72 and T able 37.
We account for certain large corporate loans and loan
commitments, including issued but unfunded letters of credit
which are considered utilized for credit risk management
purposes, that exceed our single-name credit risk concentration
guidelines under the fair value option. Lending  commitments,
both funded and unfunded, are actively managed and
monitored, and as appropriate, credit risk for these lending
relationships may be mitigated through the use of credit
derivatives, with our credit view and market perspectives
determining the size and timing of the hedging activity . In
addition, we purchase credit protection to cover the funded
portion as well as the unfunded portion of certain other credit
exposures. To lessen the cost of obtaining our desired credit
protection levels, credit exposure may be added within an
industry , borrower or counterparty group by selling protection.
These credit derivatives do not meet the requirements for
treatment as accounting hedges. They are carried at fair value
with changes in fair value recorded in other income.
In addition, we are a member of various securities and
derivative exchanges and clearinghouses, both in the U.S. and
other countries. As a member , we may be required to pay a pro-
rata share of the losses incurred by some of these organizations
as a result of another member default and under other loss
scenarios. For more information, see Note 12 – Commitments
and Contingencies  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Commercial Credit Portfolio
During 2020 , commercial asset quality weakened as a result of
the economic impact from COVID-19. However , there were also
positive signs during this period. The draws by large corporateand commercial clients contributing to the $67.2 billion loan
growth in the first quarter of 2020 have largely been repaid, as
emergency or contingent funding was no longer needed or
clients were able to access capital markets. Additionally , as part
of the CARES Act, we had $22.7 billion of PPP loans
outstanding with our small business clients at December 31,
2020, which  are included in U.S. small business commercial in
the tables in this sectio n. For more information  on PPP loans,
see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Credit quality of commercial real estate borrowers has begun
to stabilize in many sectors as certain economies have
reopened. Certain sectors, including hospitality and retail,
continue to be negative ly impacted as a result of COVID-19.
Moreover , many real estate markets, while improving, are still
experiencing some disruptions in demand,  supply chain
challenges and tenant dif ficulties.
The commercial allowance for loan and lease losses
increased $3.9 billion during 2020 to $8.7 billion due to the
deterioration in the economic outlook resulting from the impact
of COVID-19. For more information, see Allowance for Credit
Losses on page 76.
Total comm ercial utilize d credit exposure decreased $15.0
billion during 2020 to $620.3 billion driven by lower loans and
leases. The utilization rate for loans and leases, SBLCs and
financial guarantees, and commercial letters of credit, in the
aggregate, was 57 percent at December 31, 2020 and 58
percent at December 31, 2019.
Table 30 presents commercial credit exposure by type for
utilized, unfunded and total binding committed credit exposure.
Commercial utilized credit exposure includes SBLCs and
financial guarantees and commercial letters of credit that have
been issued and for which we are legally bound to advance
funds under prescribed conditions during a specified time period,
and excludes exposure related to trading account assets.
Although funds have not yet been advanced, these exposure
types are considered utilized for credit risk management
purposes.
Table 30Commercial Credit Exposure by Type
 Commercial Utilized Commercial Unfunded Total Commercial Committed
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
Loans and leases $ 499,065 $ 517,657 $ 404,740 $ 405,834 $ 903,805 $ 923,491 
Derivative assets 47,179 40,485 — — 47,179 40,485 
Standby letters of credit and financial guarantees 34,616 36,062 538 468 35,154 36,530 
Debt securities and other investments 22,618 25,546 4,827 5,101 27,445 30,647 
Loans held-for-sale 8,378 7,047 9,556 15,135 17,934 22,182 
Operating leases 6,424 6,660 — — 6,424 6,660 
Commercial letters of credit 855 1,049 280 451 1,135 1,500 
Other 1,168 800 — — 1,168 800 
Total $ 620,303 $ 635,306 $ 419,941 $ 426,989 $ 1,040,244 $ 1,062,295 
Commercial utilized exposure includ es loans of $5.9 billion and $7.7 billion and issued letters of credit with a notional amount of $89 million and $170 million accounted for under the fair value
option at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Commercial unfunded exposure includes commitments accounted for under the fair value option with a notional amount of $3.9 billion and $4.2 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Excludes unused business card lines, which are not legally binding.
Includes the notional amount of unfunded legally binding lending comm itments net of amounts distributed (i.e., syndicated or participated) to other financial institutions. The distributed amounts
were $10.5 billion and $10.6 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Derivative assets are carried at fair value, reflect the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements and have been reduced by cash collateral of $42.5 billion and $33.9 billion at
December 31, 2020 and 2019. Not reflected in utilized and committed exposure is additional non-cash derivative collateral held of $39.3 billion and $35.2 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019,
which consists primarily of other marketable securities.(1) (2, 3, 4)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
69 Bank of America
Outstanding commercia l loans and leases decreased $18.6
billion during 2020 prima rily driven by repayments due in part to
reduced working capital needs and a favorable capital markets
environment, partially offset by $22.7 billion of PPP loans
outstanding at December 31, 2020. Nonperforming commercial
loans increased $728 million across industries, and commercialreservable criticized utilized exposure increased $27.2 billion
spread across sever al industries, including travel and
entertainment, as a result of weaker economic conditions arising
from COVID-19. Table 31 presents our commercial loans and
leases portfolio and related credit quality information at
December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Table 31Commercial Credit Quality
Outstandings NonperformingAccruing Past Due
90 Days or More 
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
Commercial and industrial:
U.S. commercial $ 288,728 $ 307,048 $ 1,243 $ 1,094 $ 228 $ 106 
Non-U.S. commercial 90,460 104,966 418 43 10 8 
Total commercial and industrial 379,188 412,014 1,661 1,137 238 114 
Commercial real estate 60,364 62,689 404 280 6 19 
Commercial lease financing 17,098 19,880 87 32 25 20 
456,650 494,583 2,152 1,449 269 153 
U.S. small business commercial 36,469 15,333 75 50 115 97 
Commercial loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair
value option 493,119 509,916 2,227 1,499 384 250 
Loans accounted for under the fair value option 5,946 7,741 
Total commercial loans and leases $ 499,065 $ 517,657 
Includes card-related products.
Commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option include U.S. commercial of $2.9 billion and $4.7 billion and non-U.S. commercial of $3.0 billion and $3.1 billion at December 31, 2020
and 2019. For more information on the fair value option, see Note 21 – Fair V alue Option  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
For information on our interest accrual policies and delinquency status for loan modifications related to the pandemic, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Table 32 presents net charge-of fs and related ratios for our commercial loans and leases for 2020 and 2019.
Table 32Commercial Net Charge-offs and Related Ratios
Net Charge-offs Net Charge-off Ratios
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2020 2019
Commercial and industrial:
U.S. commercial $ 718 $ 256 0.23 % 0.08 %
Non-U.S. commercial 155 84 0.15 0.08 
Total commercial and industrial 873 340 0.21 0.08 
Commercial real estate 270 29 0.43 0.05 
Commercial lease financing 59 21 0.32 0.10 
1,202 390 0.24 0.08 
U.S. small business commercial 267 272 0.86 1.83 
Total commercial $ 1,469 $ 662 0.28 0.13 
Net charge-of f ratios are calculated as net charge-of fs divided by average outstanding loans and leases excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option.
Table 33 presents commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure by loan type. Criticized exposure corresponds to the Special
Mention, Substandard and Doubtful asset categories as defined by regulatory authorities. Total commercial reservable criticized
utilized exposure increased $27.2 billion during 2020, which was spread across several industries, including travel and
entertainment, as a result of weaker economic conditions arising from COVID-19. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, 79 percent and
90 percent of commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure was secured.
Table 33Commercial Reservable Criticized Utilized Exposure 
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Commercial and industrial:
U.S. commercial $ 21,388 6.83 %$ 8,272 2.46 %
Non-U.S. commercial 5,051 5.03 989 0.89 
Total commercial and industrial 26,439 6.40 9,261 2.07 
Commercial real estate 10,213 16.42 1,129 1.75 
Commercial lease financing 714 4.18 329 1.66 
37,366 7.59 10,719 2.01 
U.S. small business commercial 1,300 3.56 733 4.78 
Total commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure $ 38,666 7.31 $ 11,452 2.09 
Total commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure includes loans and leases of $36.6 billion and $10.7 billion and commercial letters of credit of $2.1 billion and $715 million at December 31,
2020 and 2019.
Percentages are calculated as commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure divided by total commercial reservable utilized exposure for each exposure category .(3)
(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
(3)
 (1)
(1)
(1, 2)
(1)
(1)
(2)
Bank of America 70
Commercial and Industrial
Commercial and industrial loans include U.S. commercial and
non-U.S. commercial portfolios.
U.S. Commercial
At December 31, 2020, 65 percent of the U.S. commercial loan
portfolio, excluding small business, was managed in Global
Banking,  18 percent in Global Markets , 15 percent in GWIM
(generally business-purpose loans for high net worth clients) and
the remainder primarily in Consumer Banking . U.S. commercial
loans decreased $18.3 billion during 2020 driven by Global
Banking . Reservable  criticized utilized exposure increased $13.1
billion, which was spread across several industries, including
travel and entertainment, as a result of weaker economic
conditions arising from COVID-19.
Non-U.S. Commercial
At December 31, 2020, 79 percent of the non-U.S. commercial
loan portfolio  was managed in Global Banking and 21 percent in
Global Markets . Non-U.S. commercial loans decreased $14.5
billion during  2020, primarily in Global Banking . For information
on the non-U.S. commercial portfolio, see Non-U.S. Portfolio on
page 74.
Commercial Real Estate
Commercial real estate primarily includes commercial loans
secured by non-owner-occupied real estate and is dependent on
the sale or lease of the real estate as the primary source of
repayment. Outstanding loans declined by $2.3 billion during2020 as paydowns exceeded new originations. Reservable
criticized utilized exposure increased $9.1 billion to $10.2 billion
from $1.1 billion, or 16.42 and 1.75 percent of the commercial
real estate portfolio at December 31, 2020 and 2019, due to
downgrades driven by the impact of COVID-19 across
industries, primarily hotels. Although we have observed
property-level improvements in a number of the most impacted
sectors, the length of time for recovery has been slower than
originally anticipated, which has prompted additional
downgrades. The portfolio remains diversified across property
types and geographic regions. California represented the largest
state concentration at 23 percent and 24 percent of the
commercial real estate portfolio at December 31, 2020 and
2019. The commercial real estate portfolio is predominantly
managed in Global Banking  and consists of loans made
primarily to public and private developers, and commercial real
estate firms.
During 2020 , we continued to see low default rates and
varying degrees of improvement in the portfolio. We use a
number of proactive risk mitigation initiatives to reduce adversely
rated exposure in the commercial real estate portfolio, including
transfers of deteriora ting exposures to management by
independent special asset officers and the pursuit of loan
restructurings or asset sales to achieve the best results for our
customers and the Corporation.
Table 34 presents outsta nding commercial real estate loans
by geographic region, based on the geographic location of the
collateral, and by property type.
Table 34Outstanding Commercial Real Estate Loans
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019
By Geographic Region   
California $ 14,028 $ 14,910 
Northeast 11,628 12,408 
Southwest 8,551 8,408 
Southeast 6,588 5,937 
Florida 4,294 3,984 
Midwest 3,483 3,203 
Illinois 2,594 3,349 
Midsouth 2,370 2,468 
Northwest 1,634 1,638 
Non-U.S. 3,187 3,724 
Other 2,007 2,660 
Total outstanding commercial real estate loans $ 60,364 $ 62,689 
By Property Type   
Non-residential
Office $ 17,667 $ 17,902 
Industrial / Warehouse 8,330 8,677 
Shopping centers / Retail 7,931 8,183 
Hotels / Motels 7,226 6,982 
Multi-family rental 7,051 7,250 
Unsecured 2,336 3,438 
Multi-use 1,460 1,788 
Other 7,146 6,958 
Total non-residential 59,147 61,178 
Residential 1,217 1,511 
Total outstanding commercial real estate loans $ 60,364 $ 62,689 
Includes unsecured loans to real estate investment trusts and national home builders whose portfolios of properties span multiple geographic regions and properties in the states of Colorado, Utah,
Hawaii, W yoming and Montana.
U.S. Small Business Commercial
The U.S. small business commercial loan portfolio is comprised
of small business card loans and small business loans primarily
managed in Consumer Banking,  and includes $22.7 billion of
PPP loans outstanding at December 31, 2020. Excluding PPP,
credit card-related products were 50 percent and 52 percent of
the U.S. small business commercial portfolio at December 31,2020 and 2019. Of the U.S. small business commercial net
charge-of fs, 91 percent and 94 percent were credit card-related
products in 2020 and 2019.
Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and
Foreclosed Properties Activity
Table 35 presents the nonperforming commerci al loans, leases
and foreclosed properties activity during 2020 and 2019.(1)
(1)
71 Bank of America
Nonperforming loans do not include loans accounted for under
the fair value option. During 2020, nonperforming commercial
loans and leases increased $728 million to $2.2 billion, primarily
driven by the impact of COVID-19. At December 31, 2020, 84
percent of commercial nonperforming loans, leases and
foreclosed properties were secured and 66 percent werecontractually current. Commercial nonperform ing loans were
carried at 81 percent of their unpaid principal balance before
consideration of the allowance for loan and lease losses, as the
carrying value of these loans has been reduced to the estimated
collateral value less costs to sell.
Table 35Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity 
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Nonperforming loans and leases, January 1 $ 1,499 $ 1,102 
Additions 3,518 2,048 
Reductions:  
Paydowns (1,002) (648)
Sales (350) (215)
Returns to performing status (172) (120)
Charge-offs (1,208) (478)
Transfers to foreclosed properties (2) (9)
Transfers to loans held-for-sale (56) (181)
Total net additions to nonperforming loans and leases 728 397 
Total nonperforming loans and leases, December 31 2,227 1,499 
Foreclosed properties, December 31 41 56 
Nonperforming commercial loans, leases and foreclosed properties, December 31 2,268 1,555 
Nonperforming commercial loans and leases as a percentage of outstanding commercial loans and leases 0.45 % 0.29 %
Nonperforming commercial loans, leases and foreclosed properties as a percentage of outstanding commercial loans, leases
and foreclosed properties 0.46 0.30 
Balances do not include nonperforming loans held-for-sale of $359 million and $239 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Includes U.S. small business commercial activity . Small business card loans are excluded as they are not classified as nonperforming.
Commercial loans and leases may be returned to performing status when all principal and interest is current and full repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest is expected, or
when the loan otherwise becomes well-secured and is in the process of collection. TDRs are generally classified as performing after a sustained period of demonstrated payment performance.
Outstanding commercial loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.
Table 36 presents our commercial TDRs by product type and
performing status. U.S. small business commercial TDRs are
comprised of renegotiated small business card loans and small
business loans. The renegotiated small business card loans are
not classified  as nonperforming as they are charged off no later
than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days
past due. For more information on TDRs, see Note 5 –Outstanding Loans and Leases and Allowance for Credit Losses
to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For more information
on our loan modification programs offered in response to the
pandemic, most of which are not TDRs, see Executive Summary
– Recent Developments  – COVID-19 Pandemic on page 25 and
Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Table 36Commercial Troubled Debt Restructurings
December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
(Dollars in millions) Nonperforming Performing Total Nonperforming Performing Total
Commercial and industrial:
U.S. commercial $ 509 $ 850 $ 1,359 $ 617 $ 999 $ 1,616 
Non-U.S. commercial 49 119 168 41 193 234 
Total commercial and industrial 558 969 1,527 658 1,192 1,850 
Commercial real estate 137 — 137 212 14 226 
Commercial lease financing 42 2 44 18 31 49 
737 971 1,708 888 1,237 2,125 
U.S. small business commercial — 29 29 — 27 27 
Total commercial troubled debt restructurings $ 737 $ 1,000 $ 1,737 $ 888 $ 1,264 $ 2,152 
Industry Concentrations
Table 37 presents commercial committed and utilized credit
exposure by industry and the total net credit default protection
purchased to cover the funded and unfunded portions of certain
credit exposures. Our commercial credit exposure is diversified
across a broad range of industries. Total commercial committed
exposure decreased $22.1 billion, or two percent, during 2020 to
$1.0 trillion. The decrease in commercial committed exposure
was concentrated in the Global commercial banks, Asset
managers and funds, Utilities, and Real estate industry sectors.
Decreases were partially offset by increased exposure to the
Finance companies and Automobiles and components industry
sectors.
Industry limits are used internally to manage industry
concentrations and are based on committed exposure that isdetermined on an industry-by-industry basis. A risk management
framework is in place to set and approve industry limits as well
as to provide ongoing monitoring. The MRC oversees industry
limit governance.
Asset managers and funds, our largest industry concentration
with commi tted exposure of $101.5 billion, decreased $8.5
billion, or eight percent, during 2020.
Real estate, our second largest industry concentration with
committed exposure of $92.4 billion, decreased $4.0 billion, or
four percent, during 2020. For more information on the
commercial real estate and related portfolios, see Commercial
Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Commercial Real Estate on
page 71.
Capital good s, our third largest industry conce ntration with
committed exposure of $81.0 billion, remained flat during 2020.(1, 2)
(3)
(4)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Bank of America 72
a o eca 
Given the widespread impact of the pandemic on the U.S.
and global economy , a number of industries have been and will
likely continu e to be adversely impacted. We continue to monitor
all industries, particularly higher risk industries which are
experiencing or could experience a more significant impact to
their financia l condition. The impact of the pandemic has also
placed significant stress on global demand for oil. Our energy-related committed exposure decreased $3.3 billion, or nine
percent, during 2020 to $33.0 billion, driven by declines in
exploration and production, refining and marketing exposure,
energy equipment and services, partially offset by an increase in
our integrated client exposure. For more information on COVID-
19, see Executive Summary – Recent Developments – COVID-
19 Pandemic on page 25.
Table 37Commercial Credit Exposure by Industry 
Commercial 
UtilizedTotal Commercial
Committed 
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2020 2019
Asset managers and funds $ 68,093 $ 71,386 $ 101,540 $ 110,069 
Real estate 69,267 70,361 92,414 96,370 
Capital goods 39,911 41,082 80,959 80,892 
Finance companies 46,948 40,173 70,004 63,942 
Healthcare equipment and services 33,759 34,353 57,880 55,918 
Government and public education 41,669 41,889 56,212 53,566 
Materials 24,548 26,663 50,792 52,129 
Retailing 24,749 25,868 49,710 48,317 
Consumer services 32,000 28,434 48,026 49,071 
Food, beverage and tobacco 22,871 24,163 44,628 45,956 
Commercial services and supplies 21,154 23,103 38,149 38,944 
Transportation 23,426 23,449 33,444 33,028 
Energy 13,936 16,406 32,983 36,326 
Utilities 12,387 12,383 29,234 36,060 
Individuals and trusts 18,784 18,927 25,881 27,817 
Technology hardware and equipment 10,515 10,646 24,796 24,072 
Media 13,144 12,445 24,677 23,645 
Software and services 11,709 10,432 23,647 20,556 
Global commercial banks 20,751 30,171 22,922 32,345 
Automobiles and components 10,956 7,345 20,765 14,910 
Consumer durables and apparel 9,232 10,193 20,223 21,245 
Vehicle dealers 15,028 18,013 18,696 21,435 
Pharmaceuticals and biotechnology 5,217 5,964 16,349 20,206 
Telecommunication services 9,411 9,154 15,605 16,113 
Insurance 5,921 6,673 13,491 15,218 
Food and staples retailing 5,209 6,290 11,810 10,392 
Financial markets infrastructure (clearinghouses) 4,939 5,496 8,648 7,997 
Religious and social organizations 4,769 3,844 6,759 5,756 
Total commercial credit exposure by industry $ 620,303 $ 635,306 $ 1,040,244 $ 1,062,295 
Net credit default protection purchased on total commitments   $ (4,170)$ (3,349)
Includes U.S. small business commercial exposure.
Includes the notional amount of unfunded legally binding lending comm itments net of amounts distributed (i.e., syndicated or participated) to other financial institutions. The distributed amounts
were $10.5 billion and $10.6 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Industries are viewed from a variety of perspectives to best isolate the perceived risks. For purposes of this table, the real estate industry is defined based on the primary business activity of the
borrowers or counterparties using operating cash flows and primary source of repayment as key factors.
Represents net notional credit prote ction purchased to hedge funded and unfunded exposures for which we elected the fair value option, as well as certain other credit exposures. For more
information, see Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Risk Mitigation.
Risk Mitigation
We purchase credit protection to cover the funded portion as
well as the unfunded portion of certain credit  exposures. To
lower the cost of obtain ing our desired credit protection levels,
we may add credit exposure within an indus try, borrower or
counterparty group by selling protection.
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, net notional credit default
protection purchased in our credit derivatives portfolio to hedgeour funded and unfunded exposures for which we elected the
fair value option, as well as certain other credit exposures, was
$4.2 billion and $3.3 billion. We recorded net losses of $240
million in 2020 compared to net losses of $145 million in 2019
for these same positions. The gains and losses on these
instruments were offset by gains and losses on the related
exposures. The Value-at-Risk (VaR) results for these exposures
are included in the fair value option portfolio information in Table
44. For more information, see Trading Risk Management on
page 79.
 (1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
73 Bank of America
Tables 38 and 39 presen t the maturity profiles and the credit
exposure debt ratings of the net credit default protection portfolio
at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Table 38Net Credit Default Protection by Maturity
December 31
2020 2019
Less than or equal to one year 65 % 54 %
Greater than one year and less than or
equal to five years 34 45 
Greater than five years 1 1 
Total net credit default protection 100 % 100 %
Table
39Net Credit Default Protection by Credit
Exposure Debt Rating
Net
 Notional Percent of
 TotalNet
 Notional Percent of
 Total
 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Ratings     
A $ (250) 6.0 %$ (697) 20.8 %
BBB (1,856) 44.5 (1,089) 32.5 
BB (1,363) 32.7 (766) 22.9 
B (465) 11.2 (373) 11.1 
CCC and below (182) 4.4 (119) 3.6 
NR (54) 1.2 (305) 9.1 
Total net credit
default
protection $ (4,170) 100.0 %$ (3,349) 100.0 %
Represents net credit default protection purchased.
Ratings are refreshed on a quarterly basis.
Ratings of BBB- or higher are considered to meet the definition of investment grade.
NR is comprised of index positions held and any names that have not been rated.
In addition to our net notional credit default protection
purchased to cover the funded and unfunded portion of certain
credit exposures, credit derivatives are used for market-making
activities for clients and establishing positions intended to profit
from directional or relative value changes. We execute the
majority of our credit derivative trades in the OTC market with
large, multin ational financial institutions, including broker-dealers
and, to a lesser degree, with a variety of other investors.
Because these transactions are executed in the OTC market, we
are subject to settlement risk. We are also subject to credit risk
in the event  that these counterparties fail to perform under the
terms of these contracts . In order to properly reflect counterparty
credit risk, we record counterparty credit risk valuation
adjustments on certain derivative assets, including ourpurchased credit default protection. In most cases, credit
derivative transactions are executed on a daily margin basis.
Therefore, events such as a credit downgrade, depending on the
ultimate rating level, or a breach of credit covenants would
typically require an incre ase in the amount of collateral required
by the counterparty , where applicable, and/or allow us to take
additional protective measures such as early termination of all
trades. For more information on credit derivatives and
counterparty credit risk valuation adjustments, see Note 3 –
Derivatives  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Non-U.S. Portfolio
Our non-U.S. credit and trading portfolios are subject to country
risk. We define country risk as the risk of loss from unfavorable
economic and political conditions, currency fluctuations, social
instability and changes in government policies. A risk
management framework is in place to measure, monitor and
manage non-U.S. risk and exposures. In addition to the direct
risk of doing business in a country , we also are exposed to
indirect country risks (e.g., related to the collate ral received on
secured financing transactions or related to client clearing
activities). These indirect exposures are managed in the normal
course of business through credit, market and operational risk
governance, rather than through country risk governance.
Table 40 presents our 20 largest non-U.S. country exposures
at December 31, 2020. These exposures accounted for 90
percent and 88 percen t of our total non-U.S. exposure at
December 31, 2020 and 2019. Net country exposure for these
20 countries  increased $21.2 billion in 2020. The majority of the
increase was due to higher deposits with central banks in
Germany and Japan.
Non-U.S. exposure is presented on an internal risk
management basis and includes sovereign and non-sovereign
credit exposure, securities and other investments issued by or
domiciled in countries other than the U.S.
Funded loans and loan equivalents include loans, leases,
and other extensions of credit and funds, including letters of
credit and due from placements. Unfunded commitments are the
undrawn portion of legally binding commitments related to loans
and loan equivalents. Net counterparty exposu re includes the
fair value of derivatives, including the counterparty risk
associated with credit default swaps (CDS), and secured
financing transactions. Securities and other investments are
carried at fair value and long securities expos ures are netted
against short exposures with the same underlying issuer to, but
not below, zero. Net country exposure represents country
exposure less hedges and credit default protec tion purchased,
net of credit default protection sold.(1) (1)
(2, 3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Bank of America 74
Table 40Top 20 Non-U.S. Countries Exposure
(Dollars in millions)Funded Loans
and Loan
EquivalentsUnfunded Loan
CommitmentsNet
Counterparty
ExposureSecurities/
 Other
 InvestmentsCountry
Exposure at
December 31
 2020Hedges and
Credit Default
ProtectionNet Country
Exposure at
December 31
 2020Increase
(Decrease)
from December
31
 2019
United Kingdom $ 31,817 $ 18,201 $ 6,601 $ 4,086 $ 60,705 $ (1,233)$ 59,472 $ 3,628 
Germany 29,169 10,772 2,155 4,492 46,588 (1,685) 44,903 14,075 
Canada 8,657 8,681 1,624 2,628 21,590 (456) 21,134 1,012 
France 8,219 8,353 988 4,329 21,889 (1,098) 20,791 4,536 
Japan 12,679 1,086 1,115 3,325 18,205 (709) 17,496 6,964 
China 10,098 67 1,529 1,952 13,646 (226) 13,420 (2,167)
Australia 6,559 4,242 372 2,235 13,408 (321) 13,087 1,985 
Brazil 5,854 696 708 3,288 10,546 (253) 10,293 (1,479)
Netherlands 4,654 4,109 486 997 10,246 (562) 9,684 (643)
Singapore 4,115 278 359 4,603 9,355 (73) 9,282 1,456 
South Korea 5,161 856 488 2,214 8,719 (168) 8,551 (154)
India 5,428 221 353 1,989 7,991 (180) 7,811 (4,206)
Switzerland 3,811 2,817 412 130 7,170 (275) 6,895 (490)
Hong Kong 4,434 452 584 1,128 6,598 (61) 6,537 (519)
Mexico 3,712 1,379 205 1,112 6,408 (121) 6,287 (1,524)
Italy 2,456 1,784 553 1,568 6,361 (669) 5,692 315 
Belgium 2,471 1,334 505 797 5,107 (140) 4,967 (1,540)
Spain 2,835 1,156 262 914 5,167 (351) 4,816 94 
Ireland 2,785 1,050 100 253 4,188 (23) 4,165 798 
United Arab Emirates 2,218 136 266 77 2,697 (10) 2,687 (900)
Total top 20 non-U.S.
countries exposure $ 157,132 $ 67,670 $ 19,665 $ 42,117 $ 286,584 $ (8,614)$ 277,970 $ 21,241 
Our largest non-U.S. country exposure at December 31, 2020
was the U.K. with net exposure of $59.5 billion, which represents
a $3.6 billion increase from December 31, 2019. Our second
largest non-U.S. country exposure was Germany with net
exposure of $44.9 billion at December 31, 2020, a $14.1 billion
increase from December 31, 2019. The increase in Germany
was primarily driven by an increase in deposits with the central
bank.
In light of the global pandemic, we are monitoring our non-
U.S. exposu re closely , particularly in countries where restrictions
on certain activities, in an attempt to contain the spread and
impact of the virus, have affected and will likely continue to
adversely affect economic activity . We are managing the impact
to our international business operations as part of our overall
response framework and are taking actions to manage exposure
carefully in impacted regions while supporting the needs of our
clients. The magnitude and duration of the pandemic and its full
impact on the global economy continue to be highly uncertain.The impact of COVID-19 could have an adverse impact on
the global economy for a prolonged period of time. For more
information on how the pandemic may affect our operations, see
Executive Summary – Recent Development s – COVID-19
Pandemic on page 25 and Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors on page
7.
Table 41 presents countries that had total cross-border
exposure, including the notional amount of cash loaned under
secured financing agreements, exceeding one percent of our
total assets at Decembe r 31, 2020. Local exposure, defined as
exposure booked in local offices of a respective country with
clients in the same country , is excluded. At December 31, 2020,
the U.K. and France were the only countries where their
respective total cross-bo rder exposures exceeded one percent
of our total assets. No other countries had total cross-border
exposure that exceeded 0.75 percent of our total assets at
December 31, 2020 .
Table 41Total Cross-border Exposure Exceeding One Percent of Total Assets
(Dollars in millions) December 31 Public Sector Banks Private SectorCross-border
 ExposureExposure as a
 Percent of
 Total Assets
United Kingdom 2020$ 4,733 $ 2,269 $ 95,180 $ 102,182 3.62 %
2019 1,859 3,580 93,232 98,671 4.05 
2018 1,505 3,458 46,191 51,154 2.17 
France 2020 3,073 1,726 26,399 31,198 1.11 
2019 736 2,473 23,172 26,381 1.08 
2018 633 2,385 29,847 32,865 1.40 
75 Bank of America
Allowance for Credit Losses
On January 1, 2020, the Corporation adopted the new
accounting standard that requires the measurement of the
allowance for credit losses to be based on management’ s best
estimate of lifetime ECL inherent in the Corporation’ s relevant
financial assets. Upon adoption of the new accounting standard,
the Corporation recorded a net increase of $3.3 billion in the
allowance for credit losses which was comp rised of a net
increase of $2.9 billion  in the allowance for loan and lease
losses and an increas e of $310 million in the reserve for
unfunded lending commitments. The net increase was primarily
driven by a $3.1 billion increase related to the credit card
portfolio.The allowance for credit losses further increased by $7.2
billion from January 1, 2020 to $20.7 billion at December 31,
2020, which  included a $5.0 billion reserve increase related to
the commercial portfolio and a $2.2 billion reserve increase
related to the consumer  portfolio. The increases were driven by
deterioration in the economic outlook resulting from the impact
of COVID-19.
The following table presents an allocation of the allowance
for credit losses by product type for December 31, 2020,
January 1, 2020  and December 31, 2019  (prior to the adoption
of the CECL accounting standard).
Table 42Allocation of the Allowance for Credit Losses by Product Type
AmountPercent of
 TotalPercent of
 Loans and
 Leases
Outstanding AmountPercent of
 TotalPercent of
 Loans and
 Leases
 Outstanding AmountPercent of
 TotalPercent of
 Loans and
 Leases
Outstanding 
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2020 January 1, 2020 December 31, 2019
Allowance for loan and lease losses       
Residential mortgage $ 459 2.44 % 0.21 % $ 212 1.72 % 0.09 % $ 325 3.45 % 0.14 %
Home equity 399 2.12 1.16 228 1.84 0.57 221 2.35 0.55 
Credit card 8,420  44.79  10.70  6,809 55.10 6.98 3,710 39.39 3.80 
Direct/Indirect consumer 752 4.00 0.82 566 4.58 0.62 234 2.49 0.26 
Other consumer 41 0.22 n/m 55 0.45 n/m 52 0.55 n/m
Total consumer 10,071  53.57  2.35 7,870 63.69 1.69 4,542 48.23 0.98 
U.S. commercial 5,043  26.82  1.55 2,723 22.03 0.84 3,015 32.02 0.94 
Non-U.S. commercial 1,241  6.60 1.37 668 5.41 0.64 658 6.99 0.63 
Commercial real estate 2,285  12.15  3.79 1,036 8.38 1.65 1,042 11.07 1.66 
Commercial lease financing 162 0.86 0.95 61 0.49 0.31 159 1.69 0.80 
Total commercial 8,731  46.43  1.77 4,488 36.31 0.88 4,874 51.77 0.96 
Allowance for loan and lease
losses 18,802  100.00  % 2.04 12,358 100.00 % 1.27 9,416 100.00 % 0.97 
Reserve for unfunded lending
commitments 1,878  1,123 813  
Allowance for credit losses $ 20,680  $ 13,481 $ 10,229 
Ratios are calculat ed as allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of loans and leases outstanding excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option. Consumer loans accounted
for under  the fair value option include residential mortgage loans of $298 million at December 31, 2020 and $257 million at January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2019 and home equity loans of $437
million at December 31, 2020 and $337 million at January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2019. Commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option include U.S. commercial loans of $2.9
billion, $5.1 billion  and $4.7 billion at December 31, 2020, January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2019, and non-U.S. commercial loans of $3.0 billion, $3.2 billion and $3.1 billion at December 31,
2020, January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2019.
Includes allowance for loan and lease losses for U.S. small business commercial loans of $1.5 billion, $831 million and $523 million at December 31, 2020, January 1, 2020 and December 31,
2019.
n/m = not meaningful
Net charge-of fs for 2020 were $4.1 billion compared to $3.6
billion in 2019 driven by increases in commerc ial losses. The
provision for credit losse s increased $7.7 billion to $11.3 billion
during 2020 compared to 2019. The allowance for credit losses
included a reserve build  of $7.2 billion for 2020 , excluding the
impact of the new accounting standard, primarily due to the
deterioration in the economic outlook resulting from the impact
of COVID-19 on both the consumer and commercial portfolios.
The provision for credit losses for the consumer portfolio,
including unfunded lending commitments, increased $2.0 billion
to $4.9 billion during 2020 compared to 2019. The provision for
credit losses for the commercial portfolio, including unfundedlending commitments, increased $5.7 billion to $6.5 billion during
2020 compared to 2019.
The following table presents a rollforward of the allowance
for credit losses, includi ng certain loan and allowance ratios for
2020, noting that measurement of the allowance for credit losses
for 2019 was based on management’ s estimate of probable
incurred losses. For more information on the Corporation’ s credit
loss accounting policies and activity related to the allowance for
credit losses , see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting
Principles and Note 5 – Outstanding Loans and Leases and
Allowance for Credit Losses to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.(1) (1) (1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
Bank of America 76
Table 43Allowance for Credit Losses
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Allowance for loan and lease losses, January 1 $ 12,358 $ 9,601 
Loans and leases charged off
Residential mortgage (40) (93)
Home equity (58) (429)
Credit card (2,967) (3,535)
Direct/Indirect consumer (372) (518)
Other consumer (307) (249)
Total consumer charge-offs (3,744) (4,824)
U.S. commercial (1,163) (650)
Non-U.S. commercial (168) (115)
Commercial real estate (275) (31)
Commercial lease financing (69) (26)
Total commercial charge-offs (1,675) (822)
Total loans and leases charged off (5,419) (5,646)
Recoveries of loans and leases previously charged off
Residential mortgage 70 140 
Home equity 131 787 
Credit card 618 587 
Direct/Indirect consumer 250 309 
Other consumer 23 15 
Total consumer recoveries 1,092 1,838 
U.S. commercial 178 122 
Non-U.S. commercial 13 31 
Commercial real estate 5 2 
Commercial lease financing 10 5 
Total commercial recoveries 206 160 
Total recoveries of loans and leases previously charged off 1,298 1,998 
Net charge-offs (4,121) (3,648)
Provision for loan and lease losses 10,565 3,574 
Other — (111)
Allowance for loan and lease losses, December 31 18,802 9,416 
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, January 1 1,123 797 
Provision for unfunded lending commitments 755 16 
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, December 31 1,878 813 
Allowance for credit losses, December 31 $ 20,680 $ 10,229 
Loan and allowance ratios:
Loans and leases outstanding at December 31 $ 921,180 $ 975,091 
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding at December 31 2.04 % 0.97 %
Consumer allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total consumer loans and leases outstanding at December
31 2.35 0.98 
Commercial allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total commercial loans and leases outstanding at
December 31 1.77 0.96 
Average loans and leases outstanding $ 974,281 $ 951,583 
Annualized net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding 0.42 % 0.38 %
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases at December 31 380 265 
Ratio of the allowance for loan and lease losses at December 31 to net charge-offs 4.56 2.58 
Amounts included in allowance for loan and lease losses for loans and leases that are excluded from nonperforming loans
and leases at December 31 $ 9,854 $ 4,151 
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases, excluding the allowance for
loan and lease losses for loans and leases that are excluded from nonperforming loans and leases at December 31 181 % 148 %
Includes U.S. small business commercial charge-of fs of $321 million in 2020 compared to $320 million in 2019.
Includes U.S. small business commercial recoveries of $54 million in 2020 compared to $48 million in 2019.
Outstanding loan and lease balances and ratios do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option of $6.7 billion and $8.3 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019. Average loans
accounted for under the fair value option were $8.2 billion in 2020 compared to $6.8 billion in 2019.
Excludes consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option of $735 million and $594 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Excludes commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option of $5.9 billion and $7.7 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Primarily includes amounts related to credit card and unsecured consumer lending portfolios in Consumer Banking .(1)
(2)
(3)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(3)
(3)
(6)
(6)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
77 Bank of America
Market Risk Management
Market risk is the risk that changes in market conditions may
adversely impact the value of assets or liabilities, or otherwise
negatively impact earnings. This risk is inheren t in the financial
instruments associated with our operations, primarily within our
Global Markets  segment. We are also exposed to these risks in
other areas of the Corporation (e.g., our ALM activities). In the
event of market stress, these risks could have a material impact
on our results. For more information, see Interest Rate Risk
Management for the Banking Book on page 82.
We have been affected, and expect to continue to be
affected, by market stress resulting from the pandemic that
began in the first quarter of 2020. For more information on the
effects of the pandemic, see Executive Summary – Recent
Developments – COVID-19 Pandemic on page 25.
Our traditional banking loan and deposit products are non-
trading positions and are generally reported at amortized cost for
assets or the amount owed for liabilities (historical cost).
However , these positions are still subject to changes in
economic value based on varying market conditi ons, with one of
the primary risks being changes in the levels of interest rates.
The risk of adverse changes in the economic value of our non-
trading positions arising from changes in interest rates is
managed through our ALM activities. We have elected to
account for certain assets and liabilities under the fair value
option.
Our trading positions are reported at fair value with changes
reflected in income. Trading positions are subject to various
changes in market-based risk factors. The majority of this risk is
generated by our activiti es in the interest rate, foreign exchange,
credit, equity and commodities markets. In addition, the values
of assets and liabilities  could change due to market liquidity ,
correlations across markets and expectations of market volatility .
We seek to manage these risk exposures by using a variety of
techniques that encompass a broad range of financial
instruments. The key risk management techniques are
discussed in more detail in the Trading Risk Management
section.
Global Risk Management is responsible for providing senior
management with a clear and comprehensive understanding of
the trading risks to which  we are exposed. These responsibilities
include ownership of market risk policy , developing and
maintaining quantitative risk models, calculating  aggregated risk
measures, establishing and monitoring position limits consistent
with risk appetite, conducting daily reviews and analysis of
trading inven tory, approving material risk exposu res and fulfilling
regulatory requirements. Market risks that impact businesses
outside of Global Markets  are monitor ed and governed by their
respective governance functions.
Model risk is the potential for adverse consequences from
decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs and
reports. Given that models are used across the Corporation,
model risk impacts all risk types including credit, market and
operational risks. The Enterprise Model Risk Policy defines
model risk standards, consistent with our risk framework and risk
appetite, prevailing regulatory guidance and industry best
practice. All models, including risk management, valuation and
regulatory capital models, must meet certain validation criteria,
including effective challenge of the conceptual soundness of the
model, independent model testing and ongoing monitoring
through outcomes analy sis and benchmarking. The Enterprise
Model Risk Committee (EMRC), a subcommittee of the MRC,
oversees that model standards are consistent with model risk
requirements and monitors the effective challenge in the model
validation process across the Corporation.Interest Rate Risk
Interest rate risk represents exposures to instruments whose
values vary with the level or volatility of interest rates. These
instruments include, but are not limited to, loans,  debt securities,
certain trading-related assets and liabilities, deposits, borrowings
and derivatives. Hedging instruments used to mitigate these
risks include derivatives such as options, futures, forwards and
swaps.
Foreign Exchange Risk
Foreign exchange risk represents exposures to changes in the
values of current holdings and future cash flows  denominated in
currencies other than the U.S. dollar . The types  of instruments
exposed to this risk include investments  in non-U.S.
subsidiaries, foreign currency-denominated loans and securities,
future cash flows in foreign currencies arising from foreign
exchange transactions, foreign currency-denom inated debt and
various foreign exchange derivatives whose values fluctuate
with changes in the level or volatility of currency exchange rates
or non-U.S. interest rates. Hedging instruments used to mitigate
this risk include foreign exchange options, currency swaps,
futures, forwards, and foreign currency-denominated debt and
deposits.
Mortgage Risk
Mortgage risk represent s exposures to changes  in the values of
mortgage-related instrum ents. The values of these instruments
are sensitive to prepayment rates, mortgage rates, agency debt
ratings, default, market liquidity , government participation and
interest rate volatility . Our exposure to these instruments takes
several forms. For example, we trade and engage in market-
making activities in a variety of mortgage securities including
whole loans, pass-through certificates, commercial mortgages
and collater alized mortgage obligations including collateralized
debt obligations using mortgages as underlyin g collateral. In
addition, we originate a variety of MBS, which involves the
accumulation of mortgage-related loans in anticipation of
eventual securitization, and we may hold positions in mortgage
securities and residenti al mortgage loans as part of the ALM
portfolio. We also record MSRs as part of our mortgage
origination activities. Hedging instruments used  to mitigate this
risk include derivatives such as options, swaps, futures and
forwards as well as securities including MBS and U.S. Treasury
securities. For more information, see Mortgage Banking Risk
Management on page 84.
Equity Market Risk
Equity market risk represents exposures to securities that
represent an ownership interest in a corporatio n in the form of
domestic and foreign common stock or other equity-linked
instruments. Instrument s that would lead to this exposure
include, but are not limited to, the following: common stock,
exchange-traded funds, American Depositary Receipts,
convertible bonds, listed equity options (puts and calls), OTC
equity options, equity total return swaps, equity index futures
and other equity derivative products. Hedging instruments used
to mitigate this risk include options, futures, swaps, convertible
bonds and cash positions.
Commodity Risk
Commodity risk represents exposures to instru ments traded in
the petroleum, natural gas, power and metals markets. These
instruments consist primarily of futures, forwa rds, swaps and
options. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include
Bank of America 78
options, futures and swaps in the same or similar commodity
product, as well as cash positions.
Issuer Credit Risk
Issuer credit risk represents exposures to changes in the
creditworthiness of individual issuers or groups of issuers. Our
portfolio is exposed to issuer credit risk where the value of an
asset may be adversely  impacted by changes in the levels of
credit spreads, by credit migration or by defaults. Hedging
instruments used to mitigate this risk include bonds, CDS and
other credit fixed-income instruments.
Market Liquidity Risk
Market liquid ity risk represents the risk that the level of expected
market activity changes dramatically and, in certain cases, may
even cease. This exposes us to the risk that we will not be able
to transact business and execute trades in an orderly manner
which may impact our results. This impact could be further
exacerbated if expected hedging or pricing correlations are
compromised by disproportionate demand or lack of demand for
certain instru ments. We utilize various risk mitigating techniques
as discussed in more detail in T rading Risk Management.
Trading Risk Management
To evaluate risks in our trading activities, we focus on the actual
and potenti al volatility of revenues generated by individual
positions as well as portfolios of positions. Various techniques
and procedures are utilized to enable the most complete
understanding of these risks. Quantitative measures of market
risk are evaluated on a daily basis from a single  position to the
portfolio of the Corporation. These measures include
sensitivities of positions to various market risk factors, such as
the potential  impact on revenue from a one basis point change
in interest rates, and statistical measures utilizing both actual
and hypothetical market moves, such as VaR and stress testing.
Periods of extreme market stress influence the reliability of these
techniques to varying degrees. Qualitative evalu ations of market
risk utilize the suite of quantitative risk measures while
understanding each of their respective limitations. Additionally ,
risk managers independently evaluate the risk of the portfolios
under the current market environment and potential future
environments.
VaR is a common statistic used to measure market risk as it
allows the aggregation of market risk factors, including the
effects of portfolio diversification. A VaR model simulates the
value of a portfolio under a range of scenarios in order to
generate a distribution of potential gains and losses. VaR
represents the loss a portfolio is not expected to exceed more
than a certain number of times per period, based on a specified
holding period, confidence level and window of historical data.
We use one VaR model consistently across the trading portfolios
and it uses a historical simulation approach based on a three-
year window  of historical data. Our primary VaR statistic is
equivalent to a 99 percent confidence level, which means that
for a VaR with a one-day holding period, there should not be
losses in excess of V aR, on average, 99 out of 100 trading days.
Within any VaR model, there are significant and numerous
assumptions that will differ from company to company . The
accuracy of a VaR model depends on the availability and quality
of historical data for each of the risk factors in the portfolio. A
VaR model may requir e additional modeling assumptions for
new products that do not have the necessary historical market
data or for less liquid positions for which accurate daily pricesare not consistently available. For positions with insuf ficient
historical data for the VaR calculation, the process for
establishing an appropriate proxy is based on fundamental and
statistical analysis of the new product or less liquid position. This
analysis identifies reasonable alternatives that replicate both the
expected volatility and correlation to other market risk factors
that the missing data would be expected to experience.
VaR may not be indicative of realized revenue  volatility as
changes in market conditions or in the composition of the
portfolio can have a material impact on the results. In particular ,
the historica l data used for the VaR calculation might indicate
higher or lower levels of portfolio diversification than will be
experienced. In order for the VaR model to reflect current market
conditions, we update the historical data underlying our VaR
model on a weekly basis, or more frequently during periods of
market stres s, and regularly review the assump tions underlying
the model. A minor portion of risks related to our trading
positions is not included  in VaR. These risks are reviewed as
part of our ICAAP . For more information regard ing ICAAP , see
Capital Management on page 50.
Global Risk Managemen t continually reviews, evaluates and
enhances our VaR model so that it reflects the material risks in
our trading portfolio. Changes to the VaR model are reviewed
and approved prior to implementation and any material changes
are reported to management through the appropriate
management committees.
Trading limits on quantitative risk measures, including VaR,
are independently set by Global Markets Risk Management and
reviewed on a regular basis so that trading limits remain relevant
and within our overall risk appetite for market risks. Trading
limits are reviewed in the context of market liquidity , volatility and
strategic business priorities. Trading limits are set at both a
granular level to allow for extensive coverage of risks as well as
at aggregated portfolios to account for correlations among risk
factors. All trading limits are approved at least annually .
Approved trading limits are stored and tracked in a centralized
limits mana gement system. Trading limit excesses are
communicated to management for review . Certain quantitative
market risk measures and corresponding limits have been
identified as critical in the Corporation’ s Risk Appetite
Statement. These risk appetite limits are reported on a daily
basis and are approved  at least annually by the ERC and the
Board.
In periods of market stress, Global Markets  senior leadership
communicates daily to discuss losses, key risk positions and any
limit excesse s. As a result of this process, the businesses may
selectively reduce risk.
Table 44 presents the total market-based portfolio VaR which
is the combination of the total covered positions  (and less liquid
trading positions) portfolio and the fair value option portfolio.
Covered positions are defined by regulatory  standards as
trading asse ts and liabilities, both on- and off-balance sheet, that
meet a defined set of specifications. These  specifications
identify the most liquid trading positions which are intended to be
held for a short-term horizon and where we are able to hedge
the material risk elemen ts in a two-way market. Positions in less
liquid markets, or where  there are restrictions on the ability to
trade the positions, typically do not qualify as covered positions.
Foreign exchange and commodity positions are always
considered covered positions, except for structural foreign
currency positions that are excluded with prior regulatory
approval. In addition, Table 44 presents our fair value option
portfolio, which includes substantially all of the funded and
unfunded exposures for which we elect the fair value option, and
their corresponding hedges. Additionally , market risk V aR for
79 Bank of America
trading activities as presented in Table 44 differs from VaR used
for regulatory capital calculations due to the holding period being
used. The holding period for VaR used for regulatory capital
calculations is 10 days, while for the market risk VaR presented
below , it is one day . Both measures utilize the same process and
methodology .
The total market-based portfolio VaR results in Table 44
include market risk to which we are exposed from all business
segments, excluding credit valuation adjustment (CVA), DVA
and
related hedges. The majority of this portfolio is within the Global
Markets  segment.
Table 44 presents year-end, average, high and low daily
trading V aR for 2020 and 2019 using a 99 percent confidencelevel. The amounts disclosed in Table 44 and Table 45 align to
the view of covered positions used in the Basel 3 capital
calculations. Foreign exchange and commodit y positions are
always considered covered positions, regardless of trading or
banking treatment for the trade, except for structural foreign
currency positions that are excluded with prior regulatory
approval.
The annual average of total covered positions and less liquid
trading positions portfolio VaR increased for 2020 compared to
2019 primarily due to the impact of market volatility related to the
pandemic in the V aR look back period.
Table 44Market Risk VaR for Trading Activities
2020 2019
(Dollars in millions)Year 
 End Average High LowYear 
 End Average High Low 
Foreign exchange $ 8 $ 7 $ 25 $ 2 $ 4 $ 6 $ 13 $ 2 
Interest rate 30 19 39 7 25 24 49 14 
Credit 79 58 91 25 26 23 32 16 
Equity 20 24 162 12 29 22 33 14 
Commodities 4 6 12 3 4 6 31 4 
Portfolio diversification (72) (61) — — (47) (49) — — 
Total covered positions portfolio 69 53 171 27 41 32 47 24 
Impact from less liquid exposures 52 27 — — — 3 — — 
Total covered positions and less liquid trading positions portfolio 121 80 169 30 41 35 53 27 
Fair value option loans 52 52 84 7 8 10 13 7 
Fair value option hedges 11 13 17 9 10 10 17 4 
Fair value option portfolio diversification (17) (24) — — (9) (10) — — 
Total fair value option portfolio 46 41 86 9 9 10 16 5 
Portfolio diversification (4) (15) — — (5) (7) — — 
Total market-based portfolio $ 163 $ 106 171 32 $ 45 $ 38 56 28 
The high and low for each portfolio may have occurred on different trading days than the high and low for the components. Therefore the impact from less liquid exposures and the amount of
portfolio diversification, which is the dif ference between the total portfolio and the sum of the individual components, is not relevant.
The graph below presents the daily covered positions and less liquid trading positions portfolio VaR for 2020, corresponding to the
data in T able 44. Peak V aR in mid-March 2020 was driven by increased market realized volatility and higher implied volatilities.
Additional VaR statistic s produced within our single VaR
model are provided in Table 45 at the same level of detail as in
Table 44. Evaluating VaR with additional statistics allows for an
increased understanding of the risks in the portfolio as the
historical market data used in the VaR calcu lation does not
necessarily follow a predefined statistical distribution. T able 45presents average trading VaR statistics at 99 percent and 95
percent confidence levels for 2020 and 2019. The increase in
VaR for the 99 percent confidence level for 2020 was primarily
due to COVID-19 related market volatility , which impacted the 99
percent VaR average more severely than the 95 percent VaR
average. (1)  (1) (1) (1)
(1)
Bank of America 80
Table 45Average Market Risk VaR for Trading Activities – 99 percent and 95 percent VaR Statistics
2020 2019
(Dollars in millions) 99 percent 95 percent 99 percent 95 percent
Foreign exchange $ 7 $ 4 $ 6 $ 3 
Interest rate 19 9 24 15 
Credit 58 18 23 15 
Equity 24 13 22 11 
Commodities 6 3 6 3 
Portfolio diversification (61) (26) (49) (29)
Total covered positions portfolio 53 21 32 18 
Impact from less liquid exposures 27 2 3 2 
Total covered positions and less liquid trading positions portfolio 80 23 35 20 
Fair value option loans 52 13 10 5 
Fair value option hedges 13 7 10 6 
Fair value option portfolio diversification (24) (8) (10) (5)
Total fair value option portfolio 41 12 10 6 
Portfolio diversification (15) (6) (7) (5)
Total market-based portfolio $ 106 $ 29 $ 38 $ 21 
Backtesting
The accuracy of the VaR methodology is evaluated by
backtesting, which compares the daily VaR results, utilizing a
one-day holding period, against a comparable subset of trading
revenue. A backtesting excess occurs when a trading loss
exceeds the V aR for the corresponding day . These excesses are
evaluated to understand the positions and market moves that
produced the trading loss with a goal to ensu re that the VaR
methodology accurately represents those losses. We expect the
frequency of trading losses in excess of VaR to be in line with
the confidence level of the VaR statistic being tested. For
example, with a 99 percent confidence level, we expect one
trading loss in excess of VaR every 100 days or between two to
three trading losses in excess of VaR over the course of a year.
The number of backtesting excesses observed can differ from
the statistically expected number of excesses if the current level
of market volatility is materially different than the level of market
volatility that existed during the three years of historical data
used in the V aR calculation.
The trading revenue used for backtesting is defined by
regulatory agencies in order to most closely align with the VaR
component of the regulatory capital calculation. This revenue
differs from total trading-related revenue in that it excludes
revenue from trading activities that either do not generate
market risk or the market risk cannot be included in VaR. Some
examples of the types of revenue excluded for backtesting are
fees, commissions, reserves, net interest incom e and intra-day
trading revenues.
We conduct daily backtesting on the VaR results used for
regulatory capital calculations as well as the VaR results for key
legal entities, regions and risk factors. These results are
reported to senior market risk management. Senior
management regularly reviews and evaluates  the results of
these tests.
During 2020, there were seven days where this subset of
trading revenue had losses that exceeded our total covered
portfolio V aR, utilizing a one-day holding period.
Total Trading-related Revenue
Total trading -related revenue, excluding brokerage fees, and
CVA, DVA and funding valuation adjustment gains (losses),
represents the total amount earned from trading positions,
including market-based net interest income, which are taken in a
diverse range of financial instruments and markets. For more
information on fair value, see Note 20 – Fair Value
Measurements  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Trading-related revenue can be volatile and is largely driven by
general market conditions and customer demand. Also, trading-
related revenue is dependent on the volume and type of
transactions, the level of risk assumed, and the volatility of price
and rate movements at any given time within the ever-changing
market environment. Significant daily revenue by business is
monitored and the primary drivers of these are reviewed.
The following histogram is a graphic depiction of trading
volatility and illustrates the daily level of trading-related revenue
for 2020 and 2019. During 2020, positive trading-related
revenue was recorded for 98 percent of the trading days, of
which 87 percent were daily trading gains of over $25 million,
and the largest loss was $90 million. This compares to 2019
where posit ive trading- related revenue was recorded for 98
percent of the trading days, of which 80 percent were daily
trading gains of over $25 million, and the largest loss was $35
million.
Trading Portfolio Stress Testing
Because the very nature of a VaR model suggests results can
exceed our estimates and it is dependent on a limited historical
window , we also stress test our portfolio using scenario analysis.
This analysi s estimates the change in the value of our trading
portfolio that may result from abnormal market movements.
A set of scenarios, categorized as either historical or
hypothetical, are computed daily for the overall trading portfolio
and individual businesses. These scenarios include shocks to
underlying market risk factors that may be well beyond the
shocks found in the historical data used to calculate VaR.
Historical scenarios simulate the impact of the market moves
that occurred during a period of extended historical market
stress. Generally , a multi-week period representing the most
81 Bank of America
severe point during a crisis is selected for each historical
scenario. Hypothetical scenarios provide estimated portfolio
impacts from potential future market stress events. Scenarios
are reviewed and updated in response to changing positions
and new economic or political information. In addition, new or ad
hoc scenarios are developed to address specific potential
market events or particular vulnerabilities in the portfolio. The
stress tests are reviewe d on a regular basis and the results are
presented to senior management.
Stress testing for the trading portfolio is integrated with
enterprise-wide stress testing and incorporated  into the limits
framework. The macroeconomic scenarios used for enterprise-
wide stress testing purposes differ from the typical trading
portfolio scenarios in that they have a longer time horizon and
the results are forecasted over multiple periods for use in
consolidated capital and liquidity planning. For more information,
see Managing Risk on page 47.
Interest Rate Risk Management for the
Banking Book
The followin g discussion presents net interest income for
banking book activities.
Interest rate risk represents the most significant market risk
exposure to our banking  book balance sheet. Interest rate risk is
measured as the potential change in net interest income caused
by movemen ts in market interest rates. Client-f acing activities,
primarily lending and deposit-taking, create  interest rate
sensitive positions on our balance sheet.
We prepare forward-looking forecasts of net interest income.
The baseline  forecast takes into consideration expected future
business growth, ALM positioning -and the direction of interest
rate movements as implied by the market-based forward curve.
We then measure and evaluate the impact that alternative
interest rate scenarios have on the baseline forecast in order to
assess interest rate sensitivity under varied conditions. The net
interest income forecast is frequently update d for changing
assumptions and differing outlooks based on economic trends,
market cond itions and business strategies. Thus , we continually
monitor our balance sheet position in order to maintain an
acceptable level of exposure to interest rate changes.
The interest rate scen arios that we analyze  incorporate
balance sheet assumptions such as loan and deposit growth
and pricing, changes in funding mix, product repricing, maturity
characteristics and investment securities premium amortization.
Our overall  goal is to manage interest rate risk so that
movements in interest rates do not significantly adversely affect
earnings and capital.
Table 46 presents the spot and 12-month forward rates used
in our baseline forecasts at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Table 46Forward Rates
December 31, 2020
 Federal
 FundsThree-month
 LIBOR10-Year
 Swap
Spot rates 0.25 % 0.24 % 0.93 %
12-month forward rates 0.25 0.19 1.06 
December 31, 2019
Spot rates 1.75 % 1.91 % 1.90 %
12-month forward rates 1.50 1.62 1.92 
Table 47 shows the pretax impact to forecasted net interest
income over the next 12 months from Decembe r 31, 2020 and
2019 resulting from instantaneous parallel and non-parallelshocks to the market- based forward curve. Periodically we
evaluate the scenarios presented so that they are meaningful in
the context of the current rate environment. The interest rate
scenarios also assume U.S. dollar rates are floored at zero.
During 2020, the asset sensitivity of our balance sheet
increased in both up-rate and down-rate scenarios primarily due
to continued deposit growth invested in long-term securities. We
continue to be asset sensitive to a parallel upward move in
interest rates with the majority of that impact coming from the
short end of the yield curve. Additionally , higher interest rates
impact the fair value of debt securities and, accordingly , for debt
securities classified as AFS, may adversely affect accumulated
OCI and thus capital levels under the Basel 3 capital rules.
Under instantaneous upward parallel shifts, the near-term
adverse impact to Basel 3 capital is reduced over time by
offsetting positive impacts to net interest income. For more
information on Basel 3, see Capital Management – Regulatory
Capital on page 51.
Table 47Estimated Banking Book Net Interest
Income Sensitivity to Curve Changes
Short 
 Rate
(bps)Long 
 Rate
(bps)December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Parallel Shifts
+100 bps
instantaneous shift +100 +100$ 10,468 $ 4,190 
-25 bps
instantaneous shift -25 -25 (2,766) (1,500)
Flatteners   
Short-end
instantaneous
change +100 — 6,321 2,641 
Long-end
instantaneous
change — -25 (1,686) (653)
Steepeners   
Short-end
instantaneous
change -25 — (1,084) (844)
Long-end
instantaneous
change — +100 4,333 1,561 
The sensitivity analysis in Table 47 assumes that we take no
action in response to these rate shocks and does not assume
any change  in other macroeconomic variables normally
correlated with changes in interest rates. As part of our ALM
activities, we use securities, certain residential mortgages, and
interest rate and foreign exchange derivative s in managing
interest rate sensitivity .
The behavior of our deposits portfolio in the baseline forecast
and in alternate interest  rate scenarios is a key assumption in
our projected estimates of net interest income. The sensitivity
analysis in Table 47 assu mes no change in deposit portfolio size
or mix from the baseline  forecast in alternate rate environments.
In higher rate scenarios , any customer activity resulting in the
replacement of low-cost or non-interest-bearin g deposits with
higher yielding deposits or market-based funding would reduce
our benefit in those scenarios.
Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Derivative
Contracts
Interest rate and foreign exchange derivative contracts are
utilized in our ALM activities and serve as an efficient tool to
manage our interest rate and foreign exchang e risk. We use
derivatives to hedge the variability in cash flows or changes in
fair value on our balanc e sheet due to interest rate and foreign
exchange components. For more information on our hedging
Bank of America 82
activities, see Note 3 – Derivatives  to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
Our interest rate contracts are generally non-leveraged
generic interest rate and foreign exchange basis swaps, options,
futures and forwards. In addition, we use foreign exchange
contracts, including cross-currency interest rate swaps, foreign
currency futures contra cts, foreign currency forward contracts
and options to mitigate the foreign exchange risk associated
with foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities.
Changes to the composition of our derivatives portfolio
during 2020 reflect actions taken for interest rate and foreign
exchange rate risk management. The decisions to reposition our
derivatives portfolio are based on the current assessment of
economic and financial conditions including the interest rate and
foreign currency environments, balance sheet composition and
trends, and the relative mix of our cash and derivative positions.
We use interest rate derivative instruments to hedge the
variability in the cash flows of our assets and liabilities and other
forecasted transactions (collectively referred to as cash flow
hedges). The net results on both open and terminated cash flow
hedge deriva tive instrum ents recorded in accumulated OCI were
a gain of $580 million and a loss of $496 million, on a pretax
basis, at December 31, 2020 and 2019. These gains and losses
are expected to be reclassified into earnings in the same period
as the hedged cash flows affect earnings and will decrease
income or increase expense on the respective hedgedcash flows. Assuming no change in open cash flow derivative
hedge posit ions and no changes in prices or interest rates
beyond what is implied in forward yield curves at December 31,
2020, the after-tax net gains are expected to be reclassified into
earnings as follows: a gain of $187 million within the next year, a
gain of $358 million in years two through five, a loss of $59
million in years six through ten, with the remaining loss of $50
million thereafter . For more information on derivatives
designated as cash flow hedges, see Note 3 – Derivatives  to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
We hedge our net investment in non-U.S. operations
determined to have functional currencies other than the U.S.
dollar using forward foreign exchange contracts that typically
settle in less than 180 days, cross-currency basis swaps and
foreign exchange options. We recorded net after-tax losses on
derivatives in accumulated OCI associated with net investment
hedges which were offset by gains on our net investments in
consolidated non-U.S. entities at December 31, 2020.
Table 48 presents derivatives utilized in our ALM activities
and shows the notiona l amount, fair value, weighted-average
receive-fixed and pay-fixed rates, expected maturity and
average estimated durations of our open ALM derivatives at
December 31, 2020 and 2019. These amounts do not include
derivative hedges on our MSRs. During 2020, the fair value of
receive-fixed interest rate swaps increased while pay-fixed
interest swaps decreased, primarily driven by lower swap rates
on hedges of U.S. dollar long-term debt.
Table
48 Asset and Liability Management Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Contracts
December 31, 2020
Expected Maturity
(Dollars in millions, average estimated
duration in years)Fair
 Value Total 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 ThereafterAverage
 Estimated
 Duration
Receive-fixed interest rate swaps$14,885        8.08 
Notional amount  $269,015 $11,050 $20,908 $30,654 $31,317 $32,898 $142,188 
Weighted-average fixed-rate 1.54 % 3.25 % 0.91 % 1.48 % 1.17 % 1.07 % 1.69 %
Pay-fixed interest rate swaps (5,502)        6.52 
Notional amount  $252,698 $ 7,562 $21,667 $24,671 $24,406 $32,052 $142,340  
Weighted-average fixed-rate 0.89 % 0.57 % 0.10 % 1.28 % 0.86 % 0.68 % 1.00 %
Same-currency basis swaps (235)         
Notional amount  $223,659 $18,769 $12,245 $ 9,747 $22,737 $28,222 $131,939  
Foreign exchange basis swaps (1,014)   
Notional amount  112,465 27,424 16,038 8,066 3,819 4,446 52,672  
Foreign exchange contracts 349  
Notional amount (42,490) (69,299) 2,841 2,505 4,735 4,369 12,359 
Futures and forward rate
contracts 47 
Notional amount 14,255 14,255 — — — — — 
Option products —   
Notional amount  17 — — 17 — — —  
Net ALM contracts $ 8,530         (1)
(1)
 (2)
(1,
3, 4)
(1, 4, 5)
(6)
83 Bank of America
Table
48 Asset and Liability Management Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Contracts (continued)
  December 31, 2019
  Expected Maturity
(Dollars in millions, average estimated
duration in years)Fair
Value Total 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 ThereafterAverage
Estimated
 Duration
Receive-fixed interest rate swaps$12,370        6.47 
Notional amount  $215,123 $16,347 $14,642 $21,616 $36,356 $21,257 $104,905 
Weighted-average fixed-rate 2.68 % 2.68 % 3.17 % 2.48 % 2.36 % 2.55 % 2.79 %
Pay-fixed interest rate swaps (2,669)        6.99 
Notional amount  $69,586 $ 4,344 $ 2,117 $ — $13,993 $ 8,194 $40,938  
Weighted-average fixed-rate 2.36 % 2.16 % 2.15 % — % 2.52 % 2.26 % 2.35 %
Same-currency basis swaps (290)         
Notional amount  $152,160 $18,857 $18,590 $ 4,306 $ 2,017 $14,567 $93,823  
Foreign exchange basis swaps (1,258)   
Notional amount  113,529 23,639 24,215 14,611 7,111 3,521 40,432  
Foreign exchange contracts 414  
Notional amount (53,106) (79,315) 4,539 2,674 2,340 4,432 12,224 
Option products —   
Notional amount  15 — — — 15 — —  
Net ALM contracts $8,567         
Does not include basis adjustments on either fixed-rate debt issued by the Corporation or AFS debt securities, which are hedged using derivat ives designated as fair value hedging instruments,
that substantially of fset the fair values of these derivatives.
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the notional amount of same-currency basis swaps included $223.7 billion and $152.2 billion in both foreign currency and U.S. dollar-denominated basis swaps in
which both sides of the swap are in the same currency .
Foreign exchange basis swaps consisted of cross-currency variable interest rate swaps used separately or in conjunction with receive-fixed interest rate swaps.
Does not include foreign currency translation adjustments on certain non-U.S. debt issued by the Corporation that substantially of fset the fair values of these derivatives.
The notio nal amount of foreign exchange contracts of $(42.5) billion at December 31, 2020 was comprised of $34.2 billion in foreign currency-denominated and cross-currency receive-fixed swaps,
$(74.3) billion in net foreign currency forward rate contracts, $(3.1) billion in foreign currency-denominated interest rate swaps and $711 million  in net foreign currency futures contracts. Foreign
exchange contracts of $(53.1) billion at December 31, 2019 were comprised of $29.0 billion in foreign currency-denominated and cross-currenc y receive-fixed swaps, $(82.4) billion in net foreign
currency forward rate contracts, $(313) million in foreign currency-denominated interest rate swaps and $644 million in foreign currency futures contracts.
Reflects the net of long and short positions. Amounts shown as negative reflect a net short position.
Mortgage Banking Risk Management
We originate, fund and service mortgage loans, which subject us
to credit, liquidity and interest rate risks, among others. We
determine whether loans will be held for investm ent or held for
sale at the time of commitment and manage credit and liquidity
risks by selling or securitizing a portion of the loans we originate.
Interest rate risk and market risk can be substantial in the
mortgage business. Changes in interest rates and other market
factors impact the volume of mortgage originations. Changes in
interest rates also impact the value of interest rate lock
commitments (IRLCs) and the related residential first mortgage
loans held-f or-sale (LHFS) between the date of the IRLC and
the date the loans are sold to the secondary market. An
increase in mortgage interest rates typically leads to a decrease
in the value of these instruments. Conversely , when there is an
increase in interest rates, the value of the MSRs will increase
driven by lower prepaym ent expectations. Because the interest
rate risks of these hedg ed items offset, we combine them into
one overall hedged item with one combined economic hedge
portfolio consisting of derivative contracts and securities.
During 2020, 2019 and 2018, we recorded gains of $321
million, $291 million and $244 million related to the change in
fair value of the MSRs, IRLCs and LHFS, net of gains and
losses on the hedge portfolio. For more inform ation on MSRs,
see Note 20 – Fair Value Measurements  to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
Compliance and Operational Risk
Management
Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regula tory sanctions,
material financial loss or damage to the reputation of the
Corporation arising from the failure of the Corpo ration to comply
with the requirements of applicable laws, rules, regulations and
our internal policies and procedures (collectively , applicable
laws, rules and regulations).
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate
or failed processes, people and systems or from externalevents. Operational risk may occur anywhere in the Corporation,
including third-party business processes, and is not limited to
operations functions. Effects may extend beyond financial
losses and may result in reputational risk impacts. Operational
risk includes legal risk. Additionally , operational risk is a
component in the calcul ation of total RWA used in the Basel 3
capital calculation. For more information on Basel 3 calculations,
see Capital Management on page 50.
FLUs and control functions are first and foremost responsible
for managing all aspects of their businesses, including their
compliance and operational risk. FLUs and control functions are
required to understand their business processes and related
risks and controls, including third-party dependencies, the
related regulatory requirements, and monitor and report on the
effectiveness of the control environment. In order to actively
monitor and assess the performance of their processes and
controls, they must conduct comprehensive quality assurance
activities and identify issues and risks to remedi ate control gaps
and weaknesses. FLUs and control functions must also adhere
to compliance and operational risk appetite limits to meet
strategic, capital and financial planning objective s. Finally , FLUs
and contro l functions are responsible for the proactive
identification, management and escalation of compliance and
operational risks across the Corporation.
Global Compliance and Operational Risk teams
independently assess compliance and operational risk, monitor
business activities and processes and evaluate FLUs and
control functions for adherence to applicable laws, rules and
regulations, including identifying issues and risks, determining
and developing tests to be conducted by the Enterprise
Independent Testing unit, and reporting on the state of the
control environment. Enterprise Independent Testing, an
independent testing function within IRM, works with Global
Compliance and Operational Risk, the FLUs and control
functions in the identific ation of testing needs and test design,
and is accountable for test execution, reporting and analysis of
results.(1)
(1)
(2)
(1,
3, 4)
(1, 4, 5)
(6)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
Bank of America 84
Corporate Audit provides independent asse ssment and
validation through testing of key compliance and operational risk
processes and controls across the Corporation.
The Corporation's Global Compliance Enterpris e Policy and
Operational Risk Management - Enterprise Policy set the
requirements for reporting compliance and operational risk
information to executive management as well as the Board or
appropriate Board-leve l committees in supp ort of Global
Compliance and Operational Risk’ s responsibilities for
conducting independent oversight of our compliance and
operational risk management activities. The Board provides
oversight of compliance risk through its Audit Committee and the
ERC, and operational risk through the ERC.
A key operational risk facing the Corporation is information
security , which includes cybersecurity . Cybersecurity risk
represents, among other things, exposure to failures or
interruptions of service or breaches of security , including as a
result of malicious technological attacks, that impact the
confidentiality , availability or integrity of our, or third parties'
(including their downstream service providers , the financial
services industry and financial data aggregators) operations,
systems or data, including sensitive corporate  and customer
information. The Corporation manages informat ion security risk
in accordance with internal policies which govern our
comprehensive informat ion security program designed to protect
the Corpor ation by enabling preventative, detective and
responsive measures to combat information and cybersecurity
risks. The Board and the ERC provide cybersecurity and
information security risk oversight for the Corporation, and our
Global Information Security Team manages the day-to-day
implementation of our information security program.
Reputational Risk Management
Reputational risk is the risk that negative perceptions of the
Corporation’ s conduct or business practices may adversely
impact its profitability or operations. Reputational risk may result
from many of the Corporation’ s activities, including those related
to the management of our strategic, operational, compliance and
credit risks.
The Corporation manages reputational risk through
established policies and controls in its businesses and risk
management processes to mitigate reputational risks in a timely
manner and through proactive monitoring and identification of
potential reputational risk events. If reputatio nal risk events
occur , we focus on remediating the underlying issue and taking
action to minimize damage to the Corporation’ s reputation. The
Corporation has processes and procedures in place to respond
to events that give rise to reputational risk, including educating
individuals and organizations that influence public opinion,
implementing external communication strategies to mitigate the
risk, and informing key stakeholders of poten tial reputational
risks. The Corporation’ s organization and gover nance structure
provides oversight of reputational risks, and reputational risk
reporting is provided regularly and directly to management and
the ERC, which provides primary oversight of reputational risk.
In addition, each FLU has a committee, which includes
representatives from Compliance, Legal and Risk, that is
responsible for the oversight of reputational risk. Such
committees’ oversight includes providing appro val for business
activities that present elevated levels of reputational risks.
Climate Risk Management
Climate-related risks are divided into two major categories: (1)
risks related  to the transition to a low-carbon economy , which
may entail extensive policy , legal, technology and marketchanges, and (2) risks related to the physical impacts of climate
change, driven by extreme weather events, such as hurricanes
and floods, as well as chronic longer-term shifts, such as
temperature increases and sea level rises. These changes and
events can have broad impacts on operations, supply chains,
distribution networks, customers, and markets and are otherwise
referred to, respectively , as transition risk and physical risk. The
financial impacts of transition risk can lead to and amplify credit
risk. Physic al risk can also lead to increased  credit risk by
diminishing borrowers’ repayment capacity or collateral values.
As climate risk is interconnected with all key risk types, we
have developed and continue to enhance processes to embed
climate risk considerations into our Risk Framework and risk
management programs established for strategic, credit, market,
liquidity , compliance, operational and reputation al risks. A key
element of how we mana ge climate risk is the Risk Identification
process through which climate and other risks are identified
across all FLUs and control functions, prioritized in our risk
inventory and evaluated  to determine estimated severity and
likelihood of occurrence. Once identified, climate risks are
assessed for potential impacts and incorporated into the design
of macroeconomic scenarios to generate loss forecasts and
assess how climate-related impacts could affect us and our
clients.
Our governance framework establishes oversight of climate
risk practices and strategies by the Board, supported by its
Corporate Governance, ESG, and Sustainability Committee, the
ERC and the Global Environmental, Social and Governance
Committee, a management-level committee comprised of senior
leaders across every major FLU and control function. The
Climate Risk Steering Council oversees our climate risk
management practices, shapes our approach to managing
climate-related risks in line with our Risk Framework and meets
monthly . In 2020, the climate risk management effort was
bolstered through the appointment of a Global Climate Risk
Executive who reports to the CRO, and establishment of a new
division within our Global Risk organization to drive execution of
the climate risk management program with the support of FLUs,
Technology & Operations and Risk partners.  For additional
information about climate risk, see the Bank of America website
(the content of which is not incorporated by reference into this
Annual Report on Form 10-K).
Complex Accounting Estimates
Our significant accounting principles, as described in Note 1 –
Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, are essential in
understanding the MD&A. Many of our significant accounting
principles require complex judgments to estimate the values of
assets and liabilities. We have procedures and processes in
place to facilitate making these judgments.
The more judgmental estimates are summarized in the
following discussion. We have identified and described the
development of the variables most important in the estimation
processes that involve mathematical models to derive the
estimates. In many cases, there are numer ous alternative
judgments that could be used in the process of determining the
inputs to the models. Where alternatives exist, we have used the
factors that we believe represent the most reasonable value in
developing the inputs. Actual performance that differs from our
estimates of the key variables could materially impact our results
of operation s. Separate from the possible future impact to our
results of operations from input and model variables, the value
of our lending portfolio and market-sensitive assets and
85 Bank of America
liabilities may change subsequent to the balance sheet date,
often signific antly, due to the nature and magnitude of future
credit and market conditions. Such credit and market conditions
may change quickly and in unforeseen ways and the resulting
volatility could have a significant, negative effect on future
operating results. These fluctuations would not be indicative of
deficiencies in our models or inputs.
Allowance for Credit Losses
On January 1, 2020, the Corporation adopted the new
accounting standard that requires the measurement of the
allowance for credit losses, which includes the allowance for
loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending
commitments, to be based on management’ s best estimate of
lifetime ECL inherent in the Corporation's relevant financial
assets.
The Corporation's estimate of lifetime ECL includes the use
of quantita tive models that incorporate forward-looking
macroeconomic scenari os that are applied over the contractual
life of the loan portfolios, adjusted for expected prepayments
and borrower-controlled extension options. These
macroeconomic scena rios include variables that have
historically been key drivers of increases and decreases in credit
losses. These variables include, but are not limited to,
unemployment rates, real estate prices, gross domestic product
and corpora te bond spreads. As any one economic outlook is
inherently uncertain, the Corporation leverages multiple
scenarios. The scenarios that are chosen each quarter and the
amount of weighting given to each scenario depend on a variety
of factors including recent economic events, leading economic
indicators, views of internal and third-party economists and
industry trends.
The Corpora tion also includes qualitative reser ves to cover
losses that are expected but, in the Corporation's assessment,
may not be adequately reflected in the economic assumptions
described above. For example, factors the Corporation
considers include chang es in lending policies and procedures,
business conditions, the nature and size of the portfolio, portfolio
concentrations, the volume and severity of past due loans and
nonaccrual loans, the effect of external factors such as
competition and legal and regulatory requirements, among
others. Further , the Corporation considers the inherent
uncertainty in quantitative models that are built on historical
data.
The allowance for credit losses can also be impacted by
unanticipated changes in asset quality of the portfolio, such as
increases in risk rating downgrades in our commercial portfolio,
deterioration in borrower delinquencies or credit scores in our
credit card portfolio or increases in LTVs in our consumer real
estate portfolio. In addition, while we have incorporated our
estimated impact of COVID-19 into our allowance for credit
losses, the ultimate impact of the pandemic is still unknown,
including how long economic activities will be impacted and
what effect the unprecedented levels of government fiscal and
monetary actions will have on the economy and our credit
losses. 
As described above, the process to determine the allowance
for credit losses requires numerous estimates and assumptions,
some of which require a high degree of judgment and are often
interrelated. Changes in the estimates and assumptions can
result in significant changes in the allowance for credit losses.
Our process for determining the allowance for credit losses is
further discussed in Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting
Principles  and Note 5 – Outstanding Loansand Leases and Allowance for Credit Losses  to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Under appli cable accounting standards, we are required to
maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of
unobservable inputs in measuring fair value. We classify fair
value measurements of financial instruments and MSRs based
on the three-level fair value hierarchy in the accounting
standards.
The fair values of assets and liabilities may include
adjustments, such as market liquidity and credit quality , where
appropriate. Valuations of products using models or other
techniques are sensitive to assumptions used for the significant
inputs. Where market data is available, the inputs used for
valuation reflect that information as of our valua tion date. Inputs
to valuation models are considered unobservable if they are
supported by little or no market activity . In periods of extreme
volatility , lessened liquidity or in illiquid markets, there may be
more variability in market pricing or a lack of market data to use
in the valuat ion process. In keeping with the prudent application
of estimates and management judgment in determining the fair
value of assets and liabilities, we have in place various
processes and controls that include: a model validation policy
that requires review and approval of quantitative models used
for deal pricing, financial statement fair value determination and
risk quantification; a trading product valuat ion policy that
requires verification of all traded product valuations; and a
periodic review and substantiation of daily profit and loss
reporting for all traded products. Primarily through validation
controls, we utilize both broker and pricing service inputs which
can and do include both market-observable and internally-
modeled values and/or valuation inputs. Our reliance on this
information is affected by our understanding of how the broker
and/or pricing service develops its data with a higher degree of
reliance applied to those  that are more directly observable and
lesser reliance applied to those developed through their own
internal modeling. For example, broker quotes in less active
markets may only be indicative and therefore less reliable.
These proce sses and controls are performed independently of
the business. For more  information, see Note 20 – Fair Value
Measurements  and Note 21 – Fair Value Option  to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Level 3 Assets and Liabilities
Financial assets and liabilities, and MSRs, where values are
based on valuation techniques that require inputs that are both
unobservable and are significant to the overall fair value
measurement are classified as Level 3 under the fair value
hierarchy established in applicable accounting standards. The
fair value of these Level 3 financial assets and liabilities and
MSRs is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow
methodologies or similar techniques for which the determination
of fair value requires significant managemen t judgment or
estimation.
Level 3 financial instruments may be hedged with derivatives
classified as Level 1 or 2; therefore, gains or losses associated
with Level 3 financial instruments may be offset by gains or
losses asso ciated with financial instruments classified in other
levels of the fair value hierarchy . The Level 3 gains and losses
recorded in earnings did not have a significant impact on our
liquidity or capital. We conduct a review of our fair value
hierarchy classifications on a quarterly basis. Transfers into or
out of Level 3 are made if the significant inputs used in the
financial models measuring the fair values of the assets and
Bank of America 86
liabilities became unobservable or observable, respectively , in
the current marketplace. For more information on transfers into
and out of Level 3 during 2020, 2019 and 2018, see Note 20 –
Fair Value Measurements  to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
Accrued Income Taxes and Deferred Tax Assets
Accrued income taxes, reported as a component of either other
assets or accrued expenses and other liabilities on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet, represent the net amount of
current income taxes we expect to pay to or receive from
various taxing jurisdictions attributable to our operations to date.
We current ly file income tax returns in more than 100
jurisdictions and consider many factors, including statutory ,
judicial and regulatory guidance, in estimating the appropriate
accrued income taxes for each jurisdiction.
Net deferred tax assets , reported as a component of other
assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, represent the net
decrease in taxes expec ted to be paid in the future because of
net operating loss (NOL) and tax credit carryforwards and
because of future reversals of temporary differences in the
bases of assets and liabilities as measured by tax laws and their
bases as reported in the financial statements. NOL and tax
credit carryforwards result in reductions to future tax liabilities,
and many of these attributes can expire if not utilized within
certain periods. We consider the need for valuation allowances
to reduce net deferred  tax assets to the amounts that we
estimate are more likely than not to be realized.
Consistent with the applicable accounting guidance, we
monitor relevant tax authorities and change our estimates of
accrued income taxes and/or net deferred tax assets due to
changes in income tax laws and their interpretation by the courts
and regulatory authorities. These revisions of our estimates,
which also may result from our income tax planning and from
the resolutio n of income tax audit matters, may be material to
our operating results for any given period.
See Note 19 – Income Taxes  to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for a table of significant tax attribute s and additional
information. For more information, see page 16 under Part I.
Item 1A. Risk Factors – Regulatory , Compliance and Legal.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
The nature of and accounting for goodwill and intangible assets
are discussed in Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting
Principles , and Note 7 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets  to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.We completed our annual goodwill impairment test as of
June 30, 2020. In performing that test, we compared the fair
value of each reporting unit to its estimated carrying value as
measured by allocated equity . We estimated the fair value of
each reporting unit based on the income approach (which
utilizes the present value of cash flows to estimate fair value)
and the market multiplier approach (which utilizes observable
market price s and metrics of peer companies to estimate fair
value).
Our discounted cash flows were generally based on the
Corporation’ s three-year internal forecasts with a long-term
growth rate of 3.68 percent. Our estimated cash flows
considered the current challenging global indus try and market
conditions related to the pandemic, including the low interest
rate environment. The cash flows were discounted using rates
that ranged from 9 percent to 12 percent, which were derived
from a capital asset pricing model that incorporates the risk and
uncertainty in the cash flow forecasts, the financ ial markets and
industries similar to each of the reporting units.
Under the market multiplier approach, we estimated the fair
value of the individual reporting units utilizing various market
multiples, primarily various pricing multiples, from comparable
publicly-traded companies in industries similar to the reporting
unit and then factored in a control premiu m based upon
observed comparable premiums paid for change-in-control
transactions for financial institutions.
Based on the results of the test, we determined that each
reporting unit’s estimated fair value exceeded its respective
carrying value and that the goodwill assigned to each reporting
unit was not impaired. The fair values of the reporting units as a
percentage of their carry ing values ranged from 109 percent to
213 percent. It currently remains difficult to estimate the future
economic impacts related to the pandemic. If economic and
market conditions (both in the U.S. and internationally)
deteriorate, our reporting units could be negatively impacted,
which could change our key assumptions and related estimates
and may result in a future impairment charge.
Certain Contingent Liabilities
For more information on the complex judgments associated with
certain contingent liabilities, see Note 12 – Commitments and
Contingencies  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
87 Bank of America
Non-GAAP Reconciliations
Tables 49 and 50 provide reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures.
Table 49Five-year Reconciliations to GAAP Financial Measures 
(Dollars in millions, shares in thousands) 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Reconciliation of average shareholders’ equity to average tangible shareholders’
equity and average tangible common shareholders’ equity 
    
Shareholders’ equity $267,309 $267,889 $264,748 $271,289 $265,843 
Goodwill (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (69,286) (69,750)
Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (1,862) (1,721) (2,058) (2,652) (3,382)
Related deferred tax liabilities 821 773 906 1,463 1,644 
Tangible shareholders’ equity $197,317 $197,990 $194,645 $200,814 $194,355 
Preferred stock (23,624) (23,036) (22,949) (24,188) (24,656)
Tangible common shareholders’ equity $173,693 $174,954 $171,696 $176,626 $169,699 
Reconciliation of year-end shareholders’ equity to year-end tangible shareholders’
equity and year-end tangible common shareholders’ equity     
Shareholders’ equity $272,924 $264,810 $265,325 $267,146 $266,195 
Goodwill (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (69,744)
Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (2,151) (1,661) (1,774) (2,312) (2,989)
Related deferred tax liabilities 920 713 858 943 1,545 
Tangible shareholders’ equity $202,742 $194,911 $195,458 $196,826 $195,007 
Preferred stock (24,510) (23,401) (22,326) (22,323) (25,220)
Tangible common shareholders’ equity $178,232 $171,510 $173,132 $174,503 $169,787 
Reconciliation of year-end assets to year-end tangible assets      
Assets $2,819,627 $2,434,079 $2,354,507 $2,281,234 $2,188,067 
Goodwill (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (69,744)
Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (2,151) (1,661) (1,774) (2,312) (2,989)
Related deferred tax liabilities 920 713 858 943 1,545 
Tangible assets $2,749,445 $2,364,180 $2,284,640 $2,210,914 $2,116,879 
Presents reconciliations of non-GAA P financial measures to GAAP financial measures. For more information on non-GAAP financial measures  and ratios we use in assessing the results of the
Corporation, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 31.
Table 50Quarterly Reconciliations to GAAP Financial Measures 
2020 Quarters 2019 Quarters
(Dollars in millions) Fourth Third Second First Fourth Third Second First
Reconciliation of average shareholders’ equity to average
tangible shareholders’ equity and average tangible common
shareholders’ equity         
Shareholders’ equity $ 271,020  $ 267,323 $266,316 $ 264,534 $ 266,900 $270,430 $ 267,975 $ 266,217 
Goodwill (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951)
Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (2,173) (1,976) (1,640) (1,655) (1,678) (1,707) (1,736) (1,763)
Related deferred tax liabilities 910 855 790 728 730 752 770 841 
Tangible shareholders’ equity $ 200,806  $ 197,251 $196,515 $ 194,656 $ 197,001 $200,524 $ 198,058 $ 196,344 
Preferred stock (24,180) (23,427) (23,427) (23,456) (23,461) (23,800) (22,537) (22,326)
Tangible common shareholders’ equity $ 176,626  $ 173,824 $173,088 $ 171,200 $ 173,540 $176,724 $ 175,521 $ 174,018 
Reconciliation of period-end shareholders’ equity to period-
end tangible shareholders’ equity and period-end tangible
common shareholders’ equity         
Shareholders’ equity $ 272,924  $ 268,850 $265,637 $ 264,918 $ 264,810 $268,387 $ 271,408 $ 267,010 
Goodwill (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951)
Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (2,151) (2,185) (1,630) (1,646) (1,661) (1,690) (1,718) (1,747)
Related deferred tax liabilities 920 910 789 790 713 734 756 773 
Tangible shareholders’ equity $ 202,742  $ 198,624 $195,845 $ 195,111 $ 194,911 $198,480 $ 201,495 $ 197,085 
Preferred stock (24,510) (23,427) (23,427) (23,427) (23,401) (23,606) (24,689) (22,326)
Tangible common shareholders’ equity $ 178,232  $ 175,197 $172,418 $ 171,684 $ 171,510 $174,874 $ 176,806 $ 174,759 
Reconciliation of period-end assets to period-end tangible
assets         
Assets $2,819,627  $2,738,452 $2,741,688 $2,619,954 $2,434,079 $2,426,330 $2,395,892 $2,377,164 
Goodwill (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951) (68,951)
Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (2,151) (2,185) (1,630) (1,646) (1,661) (1,690) (1,718) (1,747)
Related deferred tax liabilities 920 910 789 790 713 734 756 773 
Tangible assets $2,749,445  $2,668,226 $2,671,896 $2,550,147 $2,364,180 $2,356,423 $2,325,979 $2,307,239 
Presents reconciliations of non-GAA P financial measures to GAAP financial measures. For more information on non-GAAP financial measures  and ratios we use in assessing the results of the
Corporation, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 31.(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
Bank of America 88
 
Statistical T ables
Table of Contents
Page
Table I – Outstanding Loans and Leases 89
Table II – Nonperforming Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties 90
Table III – Accruing Loans and Leases Past Due 90 Days or More 90
Table IV – Selected Loan Maturity Data 91
Table V – Allowance for Credit Losses 91
Table VI – Allocation of the Allowance for Credit Losses by Product T ype 92
Table IOutstanding Loans and Leases
  December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Consumer      
Residential mortgage $ 223,555 $ 236,169 $ 208,557 $ 203,811 $ 191,797 
Home equity 34,311 40,208 48,286 57,744 66,443 
Credit card 78,708 97,608 98,338 96,285 92,278 
Non-U.S. credit card — — — — 9,214 
Direct/Indirect consumer 91,363 90,998 91,166 96,342 95,962 
Other consumer 124 192 202 166 626 
Total consumer loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option 428,061 465,175 446,549 454,348 456,320 
Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option 735 594 682 928 1,051 
Total consumer 428,796 465,769 447,231 455,276 457,371 
Commercial
U.S. commercial 288,728 307,048 299,277 284,836 270,372 
Non-U.S. commercial 90,460 104,966 98,776 97,792 89,397 
Commercial real estate 60,364 62,689 60,845 58,298 57,355 
Commercial lease financing 17,098 19,880 22,534 22,116 22,375 
456,650 494,583 481,432 463,042 439,499 
U.S. small business commercial 36,469 15,333 14,565 13,649 12,993 
Total commercial loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option 493,119 509,916 495,997 476,691 452,492 
Commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option 5,946 7,741 3,667 4,782 6,034 
Total commercial 499,065 517,657 499,664 481,473 458,526 
Less: Loans of business held for sale — — — — (9,214)
Total loans and leases $ 927,861 $ 983,426 $ 946,895 $ 936,749 $ 906,683 
Includes primarily auto and specialty  lending loans and leases of $46.4 billion, $50.4 billion, $50.1 billion, $52.4 billion and $50.7 billion, U.S. securities-based lending loans of $41.1 billion, $36.7
billion, $37.0 billion , $39.8 billion and $40.1 billion and non-U.S. consumer loans of $3.0 billion, $2.8 billion, $2.9 billion, $3.0 billion and $3.0 billion at December 31, 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017 and
2016, respectively .
Substantially all of other consumer at December 31, 2020, 2019, 2018 and 2017 is consumer overdrafts. Other consumer at December 31, 2016 also includes consumer finance loans of $465
million.
Consumer loans accounted for unde r the fair value option include residential mortgage loans of $298 million, $257 million, $336 million, $567 million and $710 million, and home equity loans of
$437 million, $337 million, $346 million, $361 million and $341 million at December 31, 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively . Commer cial loans accounted for under the fair value option
include U.S. commercial loans of $2.9 billion, $4.7 billion, $2.5 billion, $2.6 billion and $2.9 billion, and non-U.S. commercial loans of $3.0 billion, $3.1 billion, $1.1 billion, $2.2 billion and $3.1 billion
at December 31, 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively .
Includes U.S. commercial real estate loans of $57.2 billion, $59.0 billion, $56.6 billion, $54.8 billion and $54.3 billion, and non-U.S. commercial real estate loans of $3.2 billion, $3.7 billion, $4.2
billion, $3.5 billion and $3.1 billion at December 31, 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively .
Includes card-related products.
Represents non-U.S. credit card loans, which were included in assets of business held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(3)
(6)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
89 Bank of America
Table IINonperforming Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties 
 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Consumer      
Residential mortgage $ 2,005 $ 1,470 $ 1,893 $ 2,476 $ 3,056 
Home equity 649 536 1,893 2,644 2,918 
Direct/Indirect consumer 71 47 56 46 28 
Other consumer — — — — 2 
Total consumer 2,725 2,053 3,842 5,166 6,004 
Commercial    
U.S. commercial 1,243 1,094 794 814 1,256 
Non-U.S. commercial 418 43 80 299 279 
Commercial real estate 404 280 156 112 72 
Commercial lease financing 87 32 18 24 36 
 2,152 1,449 1,048 1,249 1,643 
U.S. small business commercial 75 50 54 55 60 
Total commercial 2,227 1,499 1,102 1,304 1,703 
Total nonperforming loans and leases 4,952 3,552 4,944 6,470 7,707 
Foreclosed properties 164 285 300 288 377 
Total nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties $ 5,116 $ 3,837 $ 5,244 $ 6,758 $ 8,084 
Balances exclude foreclosed properties insured by certain government-g uaranteed loans, principally FHA-insured loans, that entered foreclosur e of $119 million, $260 million, $488 million, $801
million and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively .
In 2020, $372 million in interest income was estimated to be contractually due on $2.7 billion of consumer loans and leases classified as nonper forming at December 31, 2020, as presented in the
table above, plus $4.4 billion of TDRs classified as performing at Decem ber 31, 2020. Approximately $254 million of the estimated $372 million in contractual interest was received and included in
interest income for 2020.
In 2020, $115 million in interest income was estimated to be contractua lly due on $2.2 billion of commercial loans and leases classified as nonperforming at December 31, 2020, as presented in
the table above, plus $1.0 billion of TDRs classified as performing at December 31, 2020. Approximately $71 million of the estimated $115 million in contractual interest was received and included
in interest income for 2020.
Table III Accruing Loans and Leases Past Due 90 Days or More 
 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Consumer      
Residential mortgage $ 762 $ 1,088 $ 1,884 $ 3,230 $ 4,793 
Credit card 903 1,042 994 900 782 
Non-U.S. credit card — — — — 66 
Direct/Indirect consumer 33 33 38 40 34 
Other consumer — — — — 4 
Total consumer 1,698 2,163 2,916 4,170 5,679 
Commercial    
U.S. commercial 228 106 197 144 106 
Non-U.S. commercial 10 8 — 3 5 
Commercial real estate 6 19 4 4 7 
Commercial lease financing 25 20 29 19 19 
 269 153 230 170 137 
U.S. small business commercial 115 97 84 75 71 
Total commercial 384 250 314 245 208 
Total accruing loans and leases past due 90 days or more $ 2,082 $ 2,413 $ 3,230 $ 4,415 $ 5,887 
Our policy is to classify consumer real estate-secured loans as nonperforming at 90 days past due, except for the fully-insured loan portfolio and loans accounted for under the fair value option.
Balances are fully-insured loans.(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
Bank of America 90
Table IVSelected Loan Maturity Data 
 December 31, 2020
(Dollars in millions)Due in One
Year or LessDue After One
Year Through
Five YearsDue After
Five Years Total
U.S. commercial $ 82,577 $ 198,898 $ 46,642 $ 328,117 
U.S. commercial real estate 14,073 37,552 5,552 57,177 
Non-U.S. and other 33,196 54,488 8,989 96,673 
Total selected loans $ 129,846 $ 290,938 $ 61,183 $ 481,967 
Percent of total 27 % 60 % 13 % 100 %
Sensitivity of selected loans to changes in interest rates for loans due after one
year:     
Fixed interest rates  $ 46,911 $ 32,280  
Floating or adjustable interest rates  244,027 28,903  
Total  $ 290,938 $ 61,183  
Loan maturities are based on the remaining maturities under contractual terms.
Includes loans accounted for under the fair value option.
Loan maturities include non-U.S. commercial and commercial real estate loans.
Table VAllowance for Credit Losses 
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Allowance for loan and lease losses, January 1 $ 12,358 $ 9,601 $ 10,393 $ 11,237 $ 12,234 
Loans and leases charged off    
Residential mortgage (40) (93) (207) (188) (403)
Home equity (58) (429) (483) (582) (752)
Credit card (2,967) (3,535) (3,345) (2,968) (2,691)
Non-U.S. credit card — — — (103) (238)
Direct/Indirect consumer (372) (518) (495) (491) (392)
Other consumer (307) (249) (197) (212) (232)
Total consumer charge-offs (3,744) (4,824) (4,727) (4,544) (4,708)
U.S. commercial (1,163) (650) (575) (589) (567)
Non-U.S. commercial (168) (115) (82) (446) (133)
Commercial real estate (275) (31) (10) (24) (10)
Commercial lease financing (69) (26) (8) (16) (30)
Total commercial charge-offs (1,675) (822) (675) (1,075) (740)
Total loans and leases charged off (5,419) (5,646) (5,402) (5,619) (5,448)
Recoveries of loans and leases previously charged off    
Residential mortgage 70 140 179 288 272 
Home equity 131 787 485 369 347 
Credit card 618 587 508 455 422 
Non-U.S. credit card — — — 28 63 
Direct/Indirect consumer 250 309 300 277 258 
Other consumer 23 15 15 49 27 
Total consumer recoveries 1,092 1,838 1,487 1,466 1,389 
U.S. commercial 178 122 120 142 175 
Non-U.S. commercial 13 31 14 6 13 
Commercial real estate 5 2 9 15 41 
Commercial lease financing 10 5 9 11 9 
Total commercial recoveries 206 160 152 174 238 
Total recoveries of loans and leases previously charged off 1,298 1,998 1,639 1,640 1,627 
Net charge-offs (4,121) (3,648) (3,763) (3,979) (3,821)
Provision for loan and lease losses 10,565 3,574 3,262 3,381 3,581 
Other — (111) (291) (246) (514)
Total allowance for loan and lease losses, December 31 18,802 9,416 9,601 10,393 11,480 
Less: Allowance included in assets of business held for sale — — — — (243)
Allowance for loan and lease losses, December 31 18,802 9,416 9,601 10,393 11,237 
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, January 1 1,123 797 777 762 646 
Provision for unfunded lending commitments 755 16 20 15 16 
Other — — — — 100 
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, December 31 1,878 813 797 777 762 
Allowance for credit losses, December 31 $ 20,680 $ 10,229 $ 10,398 $ 11,170 $ 11,999 
On January 1, 2020, the Corporatio n adopted the CECL accounting standard, which increased the allowance for loan and lease losses by $2.9 billion and the reserve for unfunded lending
commitments by $310 million. For more information, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Represents amounts related to the non-U.S. credit card loan portfolio, which was sold in 2017.
Includes U.S. small business commercial charge-of fs of $321 million, $320 million, $287 million, $258 million and $253 million in 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively .
Includes U.S. small business commercial recoveries of $54 million, $48 million, $47 million, $43 million and $45 million in 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively .
Primarily represen ts write-of fs of purchased credit-impaired loans for years prior to 2020, the net impact of portfolio sales, consolidations and deconsolidations, foreign currency translation
adjustments, transfers to held for sale and certain other reclassifications.
Represents allowance related to the non-U.S. credit card loan portfolio, which was sold in 2017.(1, 2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(2)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
91BankofAmerica
91 Bank of America
Table VAllowance for Credit Losses (continued)
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Loan and allowance ratios :
Loans and leases outstanding at December 31 $921,180 $975,091 $942,546 $931,039 $908,812 
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases
outstanding at December 31 2.04 % 0.97 % 1.02 % 1.12 % 1.26 %
Consumer allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total consumer
loans and leases outstanding at December 31 2.35 0.98 1.08 1.18 1.36 
Commercial allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total
commercial loans and leases outstanding at December 31 1.77 0.96 0.97 1.05 1.16 
Average loans and leases outstanding $974,281 $951,583 $927,531 $911,988 $892,255 
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding 0.42 % 0.38 % 0.41 % 0.44 % 0.43 %
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans
and leases at December 31 380 265 194 161 149 
Ratio of the allowance for loan and lease losses at December 31 to net charge-offs 4.56 2.58 2.55 2.61 3.00 
Amounts included in allowance for loan and lease losses for loans and leases that
are excluded from nonperforming loans and leases at December 31 $ 9,854 $ 4,151 $ 4,031 $ 3,971 $ 3,951 
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans
and leases, excluding the allowance for loan and lease losses for loans and
leases that are excluded from nonperforming loans and leases at December 31
181 % 148 % 113 % 99 % 98 %
Loan and allowance ratios for 2016 include $243 million of non-U.S. credit card allowance for loan and lease losses and $9.2 billion of ending non-U.S. credit card loans, which were sold in 2017.
Outstanding loan and lease balances and ratios do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option of $6.7 billion, $8.3 billion, $4.3 billion, $5.7 billion and $7.1 billion at December 31,
2020, 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively . Average loans accounte d for under the fair value option were $8.2 billion, $6.8 billion, $5.5 billion, $6.7 billion and $8.2 billion in 2020, 2019, 2018,
2017 and 2016, respectively .
Excludes consume r loans accounted for under the fair value option of $735 million, $594 million, $682 million, $928 million and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2016,
respectively .
Excludes commercial loans accoun ted for under the fair value option of $5.9 billion, $7.7 billion, $3.7 billion, $4.8 billion and $6.0 billion at December 31, 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2016,
respectively .
Primarily includes amounts related to credit card and unsecured consumer lending portfolios in Consumer Banking and, in 2017 and 2016, the non-U.S. credit card portfolio in All Other .
Table
VI Allocation of the Allowance for Credit Losses by Product Type 
 December 31
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
(Dollars in millions) AmountPercent
 of Total AmountPercent
 of Total AmountPercent
 of Total AmountPercent
 of Total AmountPercent
 of Total
Allowance for loan and lease
losses           
Residential mortgage $ 459 2.44 %$ 325 3.45 %$ 422 4.40 %$ 701 6.74 %$1,012 8.82 %
Home equity 399 2.12 221 2.35 506 5.27 1,019 9.80 1,738 15.14 
Credit card 8,420 44.79 3,710 39.39 3,597 37.47 3,368 32.41 2,934 25.56 
Non-U.S. credit card — — — — — — — — 243 2.12 
Direct/Indirect consumer 752 4.00 234 2.49 248 2.58 264 2.54 244 2.13 
Other consumer 41 0.22 52 0.55 29 0.30 31 0.30 51 0.44 
Total consumer 10,071 53.57 4,542 48.23 4,802 50.02 5,383 51.79 6,222 54.21 
U.S. commercial 5,043 26.82 3,015 32.02 3,010 31.35 3,113 29.95 3,326 28.97 
Non-U.S. commercial 1,241 6.60 658 6.99 677 7.05 803 7.73 874 7.61 
Commercial real estate 2,285 12.15 1,042 11.07 958 9.98 935 9.00 920 8.01 
Commercial lease financing 162 0.86 159 1.69 154 1.60 159 1.53 138 1.20 
Total commercial 8,731 46.43 4,874 51.77 4,799 49.98 5,010 48.21 5,258 45.79 
Total allowance for loan and lease
losses 18,802 100.00 % 9,416 100.00 % 9,601 100.00 % 10,393 100.00 % 11,480 100.00 %
Less: Allowance included in assets of
business held for sale — — — — (243)
Allowance for loan and lease
losses 18,802 9,416 9,601 10,393 11,237 
Reserve for unfunded lending
commitments 1,878 813  797 777 762 
Allowance for credit losses $20,680 $10,229  $10,398 $11,170 $11,999 
On January 1, 2020, the Corporation adopted the CECL accounting standard. For more information, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
Includes allowance  for loan and lease losses for U.S. small business commercial loans of $1.5 billion, $523 million, $474 million, $439 million and $416 million at December 31, 2020, 2019, 2018,
2017 and 2016, respectively .
Represents allowance for loan and lease losses related to the non-U.S. credit card loan portfolio, which was sold in 2017.(7)
(8)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(8)
(8)
(11)
(11)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
Bank of America 92
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
See Market Risk Mana gement on page 78 in the MD&A and the sections referenced there in for Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures about Market Risk.
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
Table of Contents
Page
Consolidated Statement of Income 97
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 97
Consolidated Balance Sheet 98
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity 99
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 100
Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles 101
Note 2 – Net Interest Income and Noninterest Income 110
Note 3 – Derivatives 111
Note 4 – Securities 118
Note 5 – Outstanding Loans and Leases and Allowance for Credit Losses 121
Note 6 – Securitizations and Other V ariable Interest Entities 129
Note 7 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets 133
Note 8 – Leases
 134
Note 9 – Deposits 134
Note 10 – Federal Funds Sold or Purchased, Securities Financing Agreements, Short-term Borrowings
and Restricted Cash 135
Note 11 – Long-term Debt 137
Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies 138
Note 13 – Shareholders’ Equity 143
Note 14 – Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 145
Note 15 – Earnings Per Common Share 145
Note 16 – Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions 146
Note 17 – Employee Benefit Plans 147
Note 18 – Stock-based Compensation Plans 152
Note 19 – Income T axes 152
Note 20 – Fair V alue Measurements 154
Note 21 – Fair V alue Option 163
Note 22 – Fair V alue of Financial Instruments 165
Note 23 – Business Segment Information 166
Note 24 – Parent Company Information 169
Note 25 – Performance by Geographical Area 171
Glossary 172
Acronyms 174
93 Bank of America
 
Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
The management of Bank of America Corporation is responsible
for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting.
The Corporation’ s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. The Corporation’ s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of
the assets of the Corporation; (ii) provide reasonable assurance
that transactions are recorded as necess ary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America, and that receipts and expenditures of the Corporation
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the Corporation; and (iii) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection
of unautho rized acqu isition, use, or disposition of the
Corporation’ s assets that could have a materi al effect on the
financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.Management assessed the effectiveness of the Corporation’ s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020
based on the framew ork set forth by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizatio ns of the Treadway Commission in
Internal Control – Integr ated Framework (2013) . Base d on that
assessment, management concluded that, as of December 31,
2020, the Corporation’ s internal control over financial reporting is
effective.
The Corporation’ s internal control over financial  reporting as
of Decem ber 31, 2020 has been audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers , LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, as stated in their accompanying report
which expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of
the Corporation’ s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2020.
Brian T . Moynihan
Chairman, Chief Executive Of ficer and President
 
Paul M. Donofrio
Chief Financial Of ficer
 
Bank of America 94
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Bank of America Corporation:
Opinions on the Financial Statements and
Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets of Bank of Amer ica Corporation and its subsidiaries (the
“Corporation”) as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the
related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive
income, changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended Dece mber 31, 2020,
including the related notes (collectively referred to as the
“consolidated financial statements”). We also have audited the
Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal
Control - Integrated Framework  (2013 ) issued by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO).
In our opinio n, the consolidated financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of the Corporati on as of December 31, 2020 and 2019,
and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020 in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of Americ a. Also in our opinion, the Corporation
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
over financi al reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on
criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework
(2013) issued by the COSO.
Change in Accounting Principle
As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements,
the Corporation changed the manner in which it accounts for
credit losses on certain financial instruments in 2020.
Basis for Opinions
The Corporation’ s management is responsible for these
consolidated financial statements, for maint aining effective
internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
included in the accompanying Report of Management on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to
express opinions on the Corporation’ s consolidated financial
statements and on the Corporation's internal control over
financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public
accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to
be independent with respect to the Corporation in accordance
with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the
PCAOB.
We conducte d our audits in accordance with the standards of
the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
consolidated financial statements are free of material
misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained
in all material respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial
statements included performing procedures to assess the risks
of material  misstatem ent of the consolid ated financial
statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing
procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures
included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the
amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial
statements. Our audits also included evaluating theaccounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of
the consolidated financial statements. Our audit of internal
control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control based on the assessed risk. Our audit s also included
performing such other procedures as we consid ered necessary
in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinions.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control
over Financial Reporting
A company’ s internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’ s internal control
over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial  statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting  principles, and
that receipts and expen ditures of the company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and
directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’ s assets that
could have a material ef fect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters
arising from the current period audit of the conso lidated financial
statements that were communicated or required to be
communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relate to
accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated
financial statements and (ii) involved our especially challenging,
subjective, or complex judgments. The commun ication of critical
audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the
consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are
not, by communicating the critical audit matters below , providing
separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts
or disclosures to which they relate.
Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses - Commercial and
Consumer Card Loans
As describe d in Notes 1 and 5 to the conso lidated financial
statements, the allowance for loan and lease losses represents
management’ s estimate of the expected credit losses in the
Corporation’ s loan and lease portfolio, exclu ding loans and
unfunded lending comm itments accounted for under the fair
value option . As of December 31, 2020, the allowance for loan
and lease losses was $18.8 billion on total loans and leases of
$921.2 billion, which excludes loans accounted for under the fair
value option. For commercial and consumer card loans, the
expected credit loss is estimated using quantitative methods
95 Bank of America
that conside r a variety of factors such as historical loss
experience, the current credit quality of the portfolio as well as
an economic outlook over the life of the loan. In its loss
forecasting framework, the Corporation incorp orates forward
looking information through the use of macroeconomic scenarios
applied over the forecasted life of the assets. These
macroeconomic scenarios include variable s that have
historically been key drivers of increases and decreases in credit
losses. These variables include, but are not limited to,
unemployment rates, real estate prices, gross domestic product
levels and corporate bond spreads. The scenarios that are
chosen and the amount of weighting given to each scenario
depend on a variety of factors including recent economic events,
leading economic indicators, views of internal as well as third-
party economists and industry trends. Also included in the
allowance for loan losses are qualitative reserves to cover
losses that are expected but, in the Corporation's assessment,
may not be adequately reflected in the quantitative methods or
the economic assumptions. Factors that the Corporation
considers include changes in lending policies and procedures,
business conditions, the nature and size of the portfolio, portfolio
concentrations, the volume and severity of past due loans and
nonaccrual loans, the effect of external factors such as
competition, and legal and regulatory requirements, among
others. Further, the Corporation considers  the inherent
uncertainty in quantitative models that are built on historical
data.
The principal considerations for our determination that
performing procedures relating to the allowance for loan and
lease losses for the commercial and consumer card portfolios is
a critical audit matter are (i) the significant judgment and
estimation by management in developing lifetime economic
forecast scenarios, related weightings to each scenario and
certain quali tative reserv es, which in turn led to a high degree of
auditor judgment, subjectivity and effort in performing
procedures and in evaluating audit evidence obtained, and (ii)
the audit effort involved professionals with specialized skill and
knowledge to assist in evaluating certain audit evidence.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and
evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall
opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These
procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls relating
to the allowance for loan and lease losses, including controls
over the evaluation and approval of models, forecast scenarios
and related  weighting s, and qualitative reserves. These
procedures also included, among others, testing management’ s
process for estimating the allowance for loan losses, including (i)
evaluating the appropriateness of the loss forecast models and
methodology , (ii) evaluating the reasonablen ess of certain
macroeconomic variable s, (iii) evaluating the reasonableness of
management’ s develop ment, selection and weighting of
economic forecast scenarios used in the loss forecast models,
(iv) testing the complete ness and accuracy of data used in the
estimate, and (v) evaluating certain qualitative reserves made to
the model output results to determine the overa ll allowance for
loan losses. The procedures also included the involvement of
professionals with specializedskill and knowledge to assist in evaluating the appropriateness
of certain loss forecast models, the reasonableness of economic
forecast scenarios and related weightings and the
reasonableness of certain qualitative reserves.
Valuation of Certain Level 3 Financial Instruments
As described in Notes 1 and 20 to the consolidated financial
statements, the Corporation carries certain financial instruments
at fair value, which includes $10.0 billion of assets and $7.4
billion of liabilities classified as Level 3 fair value measurements
on a recurrin g basis and $1.7 billion of assets classified as Level
3 fair value measureme nts on a nonrecurring basis, for which
the determination of fair value requires significa nt management
judgment or estimation. The Corporation determines the fair
value of Level 3 financial instruments using pricing models,
discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques that
require inputs that are both unobservable and are significant to
the overall fair value measurement. Unobservable inputs, such
as volatility or price, may be determined using quantitative-
based extrapolations or other internal methodologies which
incorporate management estimates and available market
information.
The principal considerations for our determination that
performing procedures relating to the valuation of certain Level 3
financial instruments is a critical audit matter are the significant
judgment and estimation used by management to determine the
fair value of these financial instruments, which in turn led to a
high degree of auditor judgment and effort in performing
procedures, including the involvement of professionals with
specialized skill and knowledge to assist in evaluating certain
audit evidence.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and
evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall
opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These
procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls relating
to the valuation of financial instruments, including controls
related to valuation models, significant unobservable inputs, and
data. These procedures also included, among others, the
involvement of professionals  with specialized skill and
knowledge to assist in developing an independent estimate of
fair value for a sample of these certain financial instruments and
comparison of management’ s estimate to the independently
developed estimate of fair value. Developing the independent
estimate involved testing the completeness and accuracy of data
provided by management and evaluating the reasonableness of
management’ s assump tions used to develop  the significant
unobservable inputs.
 
 
Charlotte, North Carolina
February 24, 2021
 
We have served as the Corporation’ s auditor since 1958.
Bank of America 96
Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statement of Income
(In millions, except per share information) 2020 2019 2018
Net interest income  
Interest income $ 51,585 $ 71,236 $ 66,769 
Interest expense 8,225 22,345 18,607 
Net interest income 43,360 48,891 48,162 
Noninterest income  
Fees and commissions 34,551 33,015 33,078 
Market making and similar activities 8,355 9,034 9,008 
Other income (738) 304 772 
Total noninterest income 42,168 42,353 42,858 
Total revenue, net of interest expense 85,528 91,244 91,020 
Provision for credit losses 11,320 3,590 3,282 
Noninterest expense
Compensation and benefits 32,725 31,977 31,880 
Occupancy and equipment 7,141 6,588 6,380 
Information processing and communications 5,222 4,646 4,555 
Product delivery and transaction related 3,433 2,762 2,857 
Marketing 1,701 1,934 1,674 
Professional fees 1,694 1,597 1,699 
Other general operating 3,297 5,396 4,109 
Total noninterest expense 55,213 54,900 53,154 
Income before income taxes 18,995 32,754 34,584 
Income tax expense 1,101 5,324 6,437 
Net income $ 17,894 $ 27,430 $ 28,147 
Preferred stock dividends 1,421 1,432 1,451 
Net income applicable to common shareholders $ 16,473 $ 25,998 $ 26,696 
Per common share information  
Earnings $ 1.88 $ 2.77 $ 2.64 
Diluted earnings 1.87 2.75 2.61 
Average common shares issued and outstanding 8,753.2 9,390.5 10,096.5 
Average diluted common shares issued and outstanding 8,796.9 9,442.9 10,236.9 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Net income $ 17,894 $ 27,430 $ 28,147 
Other comprehensive income (loss), net-of-tax:
Net change in debt securities 4,799 5,875 (3,953)
Net change in debit valuation adjustments (498) (963) 749 
Net change in derivatives 826 616 (53)
Employee benefit plan adjustments (98) 136 (405)
Net change in foreign currency translation adjustments (52) (86) (254)
Other comprehensive income (loss) 4,977 5,578 (3,916)
Comprehensive income $ 22,871 $ 33,008 $ 24,231 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
97 Bank of America
Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Balance Sheet
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Assets
Cash and due from banks $ 36,430 $ 30,152 
Interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve, non-U.S. central banks and other banks 344,033 131,408 
Cash and cash equivalents 380,463 161,560 
Time deposits placed and other short-term investments 6,546 7,107 
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell
   (includes $108,856 and $50,364 measured at fair value) 304,058 274,597 
Trading account assets (includes $91,510 and $90,946 pledged as collateral) 198,854 229,826 
Derivative assets 47,179 40,485 
Debt securities:  
Carried at fair value 246,601 256,467 
Held-to-maturity, at cost (fair value – $448,180 and $219,821) 438,249 215,730 
Total debt securities 684,850 472,197 
Loans and leases (includes $6,681 and $8,335 measured at fair value) 927,861 983,426 
Allowance for loan and lease losses (18,802) (9,416)
Loans and leases, net of allowance 909,059 974,010 
Premises and equipment, net 11,000 10,561 
Goodwill 68,951 68,951 
Loans held-for-sale (includes $1,585 and $3,709 measured at fair value) 9,243 9,158 
Customer and other receivables 64,221 55,937 
Other assets (includes $15,718 and $15,518 measured at fair value) 135,203 129,690 
Total assets $ 2,819,627 $ 2,434,079 
Liabilities   
Deposits in U.S. offices:   
Noninterest-bearing $ 650,674 $ 403,305 
Interest-bearing (includes $481 and $508 measured at fair value) 1,038,341 940,731 
Deposits in non-U.S. offices:
Noninterest-bearing 17,698 13,719 
Interest-bearing 88,767 77,048 
Total deposits 1,795,480 1,434,803 
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase
   (includes $135,391 and $16,008 measured at fair value) 170,323 165,109 
Trading account liabilities 71,320 83,270 
Derivative liabilities 45,526 38,229 
Short-term borrowings (includes $5,874 and $3,941 measured at fair value) 19,321 24,204 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities (includes $16,311 and $15,434 measured at fair value
   and $1,878 and $813 of reserve for unfunded lending commitments) 181,799 182,798 
Long-term debt (includes $32,200 and $34,975 measured at fair value) 262,934 240,856 
Total liabilities 2,546,703 2,169,269 
Commitments and contingencies (Note 6 – Securitizations and Other Variable Interest Entities
   and Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies)
Shareholders’ equity  
Preferred stock, $0.01 par value; authorized – 100,000,000 shares; issued and outstanding – 3,931,440 and 3,887,440 shares 24,510 23,401 
Common stock and additional paid-in capital, $0.01  par value; authorized – 12,800,000,000 shares;
   issued and outstanding – 8,650,814,105 and 8,836,148,954 shares 85,982 91,723 
Retained earnings 164,088 156,319 
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (1,656) (6,633)
Total shareholders’ equity 272,924 264,810 
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $ 2,819,627 $ 2,434,079 
Assets of consolidated variable interest entities included in total assets above (isolated to settle the liabilities of the variable interest
entities)
Trading account assets $ 5,225  $ 5,811  
Loans and leases 23,636  38,837  
Allowance for loan and lease losses (1,693 ) (807)
Loans and leases, net of allowance 21,943  38,030  
All other assets 1,387  540 
Total assets of consolidated variable interest entities $ 28,555  $ 44,381  
Liabilities of consolidated variable interest entities included in total liabilities above   
Short-term borrowings (includes $22 and $ 0 of non-recourse short-term borrowings) $ 454 $ 2,175  
Long-term debt (includes $7,053  and $ 8,717  of non-recourse debt) 7,053  8,718  
All other liabilities (includes $16 and $ 19 of non-recourse liabilities) 16 22 
Total liabilities of consolidated variable interest entities $ 7,523  $ 10,915  
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Bank of America 98
Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity
Preferred
 StockCommon Stock and
 Additional Paid-in CapitalRetained
 EarningsAccumulated
 Other
 Comprehensive
 Income (Loss)Total
 Shareholders’
 Equity (In millions) Shares Amount
Balance, December 31, 2017 $ 22,323 10,287.3 $ 138,089 $ 113,816 $ (7,082)$ 267,146 
Cumulative adjustment for adoption of hedge accounting
 standard (32) 57 25 
Adoption of accounting standard related to certain tax effects
stranded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 1,270 (1,270) — 
Net income    28,147 28,147 
Net change in debt securities     (3,953) (3,953)
Net change in debit valuation adjustments 749 749 
Net change in derivatives     (53) (53)
Employee benefit plan adjustments     (405) (405)
Net change in foreign currency translation adjustments    (254) (254)
Dividends declared:     
Common  (5,424)  (5,424)
Preferred   (1,451)  (1,451)
Issuance of preferred stock 4,515 4,515 
Redemption of preferred stock (4,512) (4,512)
Common stock issued under employee plans, net, and other 58.2 901 (12)  889 
Common stock repurchased (676.2) (20,094) (20,094)
Balance, December 31, 2018 $ 22,326 9,669.3 $ 118,896 $ 136,314 $ (12,211)$ 265,325 
Cumulative adjustment for adoption of lease accounting
 standard 165 165 
Net income 27,430 27,430 
Net change in debt securities 5,875 5,875 
Net change in debit valuation adjustments (963) (963)
Net change in derivatives 616 616 
Employee benefit plan adjustments 136 136 
Net change in foreign currency translation adjustments (86) (86)
Dividends declared:
Common (6,146) (6,146)
Preferred (1,432) (1,432)
Issuance of preferred stock 3,643 3,643 
Redemption of preferred stock (2,568) (2,568)
Common stock issued under employee plans, net, and other 123.3 971 (12) 959 
Common stock repurchased (956.5) (28,144) (28,144)
Balance, December 31, 2019 $ 23,401 8,836.1 $ 91,723 $ 156,319 $ (6,633)$ 264,810 
Cumulative adjustment for adoption of credit loss accounting 
 standard (2,406) (2,406)
Net income 17,894 17,894 
Net change in debt securities 4,799 4,799 
Net change in debit valuation adjustments (498) (498)
Net change in derivatives 826 826 
Employee benefit plan adjustments (98) (98)
Net change in foreign currency translation adjustments (52) (52)
Dividends declared:
Common (6,289) (6,289)
Preferred (1,421) (1,421)
Issuance of preferred stock 2,181 2,181 
Redemption of preferred stock (1,072) (1,072)
Common stock issued under employee plans, net, and other 41.7 1,284 (9) 1,275 
Common stock repurchased (227.0) (7,025) (7,025)
Balance, December 31, 2020 $ 24,510 8,650.8 $ 85,982 $ 164,088 $ (1,656)$ 272,924 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
99 Bank of America
Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Operating activities    
Net income $ 17,894 $ 27,430 $ 28,147 
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:    
Provision for credit losses 11,320 3,590 3,282 
Gains on sales of debt securities (411) (217) (154)
Depreciation and amortization 1,843 1,729 2,063 
Net amortization of premium/discount on debt securities 4,101 2,066 1,824 
Deferred income taxes (1,737) 2,435 3,041 
Stock-based compensation 2,031 1,974 1,729 
Impairment of equity method investment — 2,072 — 
Loans held-for-sale:
Originations and purchases (19,657) (28,874) (28,071)
Proceeds from sales and paydowns of loans originally classified as held for sale and instruments
from related securitization activities 19,049 30,191 28,972 
Net change in:
Trading and derivative assets/liabilities 16,942 7,920 (23,673)
Other assets (12,883) (11,113) 11,920 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities (4,385) 16,363 13,010 
Other operating activities, net 3,886 6,211 (2,570)
Net cash provided by operating activities 37,993 61,777 39,520 
Investing activities    
Net change in:
Time deposits placed and other short-term investments 561 387 3,659 
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell (29,461) (13,466) (48,384)
Debt securities carried at fair value:
Proceeds from sales 77,524 52,006 5,117 
Proceeds from paydowns and maturities 91,084 79,114 78,513 
Purchases (194,877) (152,782) (76,640)
Held-to-maturity debt securities:
Proceeds from paydowns and maturities 93,835 34,770 18,789 
Purchases (257,535) (37,115) (35,980)
Loans and leases:
Proceeds from sales of loans originally classified as held for investment and instruments
from related securitization activities 13,351 12,201 21,365 
Purchases (5,229) (5,963) (4,629)
Other changes in loans and leases, net 36,571 (46,808) (31,292)
Other investing activities, net (3,489) (2,974) (1,986)
Net cash used in investing activities (177,665) (80,630) (71,468)
Financing activities    
Net change in:
Deposits 360,677 53,327 71,931 
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase 5,214 (21,879) 10,070 
Short-term borrowings (4,893) 4,004 (12,478)
Long-term debt:
Proceeds from issuance 57,013 52,420 64,278 
Retirement (47,948) (50,794) (53,046)
Preferred stock:
Proceeds from issuance 2,181 3,643 4,515 
Redemption (1,072) (2,568) (4,512)
Common stock repurchased (7,025) (28,144) (20,094)
Cash dividends paid (7,727) (5,934) (6,895)
Other financing activities, net (601) (698) (651)
Net cash provided by financing activities 355,819 3,377 53,118 
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 2,756 (368) (1,200)
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 218,903 (15,844) 19,970 
Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 161,560 177,404 157,434 
Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 $ 380,463 $ 161,560 $ 177,404 
Supplemental cash flow disclosures
Interest paid $ 8,662 $ 22,196 $ 19,087 
Income taxes paid, net 2,894 4,359 2,470 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Bank of America 100
Bank of America Corporation and
Subsidiaries
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
NOTE 1 Summary of Significant Accounting
Principles
Bank of America Corpo ration, a bank holding company and a
financial holding company , provides a diverse range of financial
services and products throughout the U.S. and in certain
international markets. The term “the Corporation” as used herein
may refer to Bank of America Corporation, individually , Bank of
America Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of Bank of
America Corporation’ s subsidiaries or af filiates.
Principles of Consolidation and Basis of
Presentation
The Consoli dated Finan cial Statements include the accounts of
the Corpora tion and its majority-owned subsidi aries and those
variable interest entities (VIEs) where the Corporation is the
primary beneficiary . Intercompany accounts and transactions
have been eliminated. Results of operations of acquired
companies are included from the dates of acquisition, and for
VIEs, from the dates that the Corporation became the primary
beneficiary . Assets held in an agency or fiducia ry capacity are
not included in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The
Corporation accounts for investments in companies for which it
owns a votin g interest and for which it has the ability to exercise
significant influence over operating and financing decisions
using the equity method of accounting. These investments are
included in other assets. Equity method investments are subject
to impairment testing, and the Corporation’ s proportionate share
of income or loss is included in other income.
The prepara tion of the Consolidated Financial Statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America requires manage ment to make
estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and
disclosures. Actual results could materially differ from those
estimates and assumptions. Certain prior-period amounts have
been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
New Accounting Standards
Accounting for Financial Instruments -- Credit Losses
On January 1, 2020, the Corporation adopted the new
accounting standard that requires the measurement of the
allowance for credit losses to be based on management’ s best
estimate of lifetime expe cted credit losses (ECL) inherent in the
Corporation’ s relevant financial assets. Upon adoption of the
standard on January 1, 2020, the Corporation recorded a $3.3
billion, or 32 percent, increase to the allowance for credit losses.
After adjusting for deferred taxes and other adoption effects, a
$2.4 billion decrease was recorded in retained earnings through
a cumulative-ef fect adjustment. Prior to January 1, 2020, the
allowance for credit losses was determin ed based on
management’ s estimate of probable incurred losses.
Reference Rate Reform
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (F ASB) issued a new
accounting standard in March 2020, which was subsequently
amended in January 2021, related to contracts or hedging
relationships that reference London Interbank Offered Rate
(LIBOR) or other reference rates that are expected to be
discontinued due to reference rate reform. The new standard
provides for optional expedients and other guidance regarding
the accounting related to modifications of contracts, hedgingrelationships and other transactions affected by reference rate
reform. The Corporation has elected to retrospectively adopt the
new standar d as of Janu ary 1, 2020. The adoption did not have
a material accounting impact on the Corporatio n’s consolidated
financial position or results of operations; however , it did ease
the administrative burden in accounting for certain effects of
reference rate reform.
Significant Accounting Principles
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivale nts include cash on hand, cash items in
the process of collection, cash segregated under federal and
other brokerage regulations, and amounts due from
correspondent banks, the Federal Reserve Bank and certain
non-U.S. central banks. Certain cash balances are restricted as
to withdrawal or usage by legally binding contractual
agreements or regulatory requirements.
Securities Financing Agreements
Securities borrowed or purchased under agree ments to resell
and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase
(securities financing agreements) are treated as collateralized
financing transactions except in instances where  the transaction
is required to be accounted for as individual sale and purchase
transactions. Generally , these agreements are recorded at
acquisition or sale price plus accrued interest, except for
securities financing agreements that the Corpo ration accounts
for under the fair value option. Changes in the fair value of
securities financing agreements that are accounted for under the
fair value option are recorded in market making and similar
activities in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
The Corpora tion’s policy is to monitor the market  value of the
principal amount loaned  under resale agreements and obtain
collateral from or return collateral pledged to counterparties
when appropriate. Securities financing agreements do not create
material credit risk due to these collateral provisions; therefore,
an allowance for loan losses is not necessary .
In transactions where the Corporation acts as the lender in a
securities lending agreement and receives securities that can be
pledged or sold as collateral, it recognizes an asset on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value, representing the
securities received, and a liability , representing the obligation to
return those securities.
Collateral
The Corporation accepts securities and loans as collateral that it
is permitted  by contract or practice to sell or repledge. At
December 31, 2020 and 2019, the fair value of this collateral
was $ 812.4  billion and $693.0  billion, of which $758.5  billion and
$593.8  billion were sold or reple dged. The primary source of this
collateral is securities borrowed or purchased under agreements
to resell.
The Corporation also pledges company-owne d securities
and loans as collateral in transactions that include repurchase
agreements, securities loaned, public and trust deposits, U.S.
Treasury tax and loan notes, and short-term borrowings. This
collateral, which in some cases can be sold or repledged by the
counterparties to the transactions, is parenthetically disclosed on
the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
In certain cases, the Corporation has transferred assets to
consolidated VIEs where those restricted assets serve as
collateral for the interests issued by the VIEs. These assets are
included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in Assets of
Consolidated VIEs.
101 Bank of America
In addition, the Corporation obtains collateral in connection
with its derivative contracts. Required collateral levels vary
depending on the credit risk rating and the type of counterparty .
Generally , the Corporation accepts collateral in the form of cash,
U.S. Treasury securities and other marketable securities. Based
on provisions contained in master netting agreements, the
Corporation nets cash collateral received against derivative
assets. The Corporation also pledges collateral on its own
derivative positions which can be applied against derivative
liabilities.
Trading Instruments
Financial instruments utilized in trading activities are carried at
fair value. Fair value is generally based on quote d market prices
for the same or similar assets and liabilities. If these market
prices are not available, fair values are estimated based on
dealer quotes, pricing models, discounted cash flow
methodologies, or similar techniques where the determination of
fair value may require significant manageme nt judgment or
estimation. Realized gains and losses are recorded on a trade-
date basis. Realized and unrealized gains and losses are
recognized in market making and similar activities.
Derivatives and Hedging Activities
Derivatives are entered into on behalf of custom ers, for trading
or to support risk manag ement activities. Derivatives used in risk
management activities include derivatives that are both
designated in qualifying accounting hedge relationships and
derivatives used to hedg e market risks in relationships that are
not designated in qualifying accounting hedge relationships
(referred to as other risk management activities). The
Corporation manages interest rate and foreign currency
exchange rate sensitivity predominantly throu gh the use of
derivatives. Derivatives utilized by the Corporation include
swaps, futures and forward settlement contracts, and option
contracts.
All derivatives are recorded on the Consolida ted Balance
Sheet at fair value, taking into consideration the effects of legally
enforceable master netting agreements that allow the
Corporation to settle positive and negative positions and offset
cash collate ral held with the same counterparty on a net basis.
For exchange-traded contracts, fair value is based on quoted
market prices in active or inactive markets or is derived from
observable market-based pricing parameters, similar to those
applied to over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives. For non-
exchange traded contracts, fair value is based on dealer quotes,
pricing models, discoun ted cash flow methodologies or similar
techniques for which the determination of fair value may require
significant management judgment or estimation.
Valuations of derivative assets and liabilities reflect the value
of the instrument including counterparty credit risk. These values
also take into account the Corporation’ s own credit standing.
Trading Derivatives and Other Risk Management
Activities
Derivatives held for trading purposes are included in derivative
assets or derivative liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet
with changes in fair value included in market making and similar
activities.
Derivatives used for other risk management activities are
included in derivative assets or derivative liabilities. Derivatives
used in other risk management activities have not been
designated in qualifying accounting hedge relationships because
they did not qualify or the risk that is being mitigated pertains to
an item that is reported at fair value through earnings so thatthe effect of measuring the derivative instrument and the asset
or liability to which the risk exposure pertains will offset in the
Consolidated Statement of Income to the extent effective. The
changes in the fair value of derivatives that serve to mitigate
certain risks associated with mortgage servicing rights (MSRs),
interest rate lock commitments (IRLCs) and first-lien mortgage
loans held-for-sale (LHFS) that are originated by the Corporation
are recorde d in other income. Changes in the fair value of
derivatives that serve to mitigate interest rate risk and foreign
currency risk are included in market making and similar
activities. Credit derivatives are also used by the Corporation to
mitigate the risk associated with various credit exposures. The
changes in the fair value of these derivatives are included in
market making and similar activities and other income.
Derivatives Used For Hedge Accounting Purposes
(Accounting Hedges)
For accounting hedges, the Corporation formall y documents at
inception all relationshi ps between hedging instruments and
hedged items, as well as the risk management objectives and
strategies for undertaking various accounting hedges.
Additionally , the Corporation primarily uses regression analysis
at the inception of a hedge and for each reporting period
thereafter to assess whether the derivative used in an
accounting hedge transaction is expected to be and has been
highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash
flows of a hedged item or forecasted transaction. The
Corporation discontinu es hedge accounting when it is
determined that a deriva tive is not expected to be or has ceased
to be highly effective as a hedge, and then reflects changes in
fair value of the derivative in earnings after termination of the
hedge relationship.
Fair value hedges are used to protect against changes in the
fair value of the Corpo ration’ s assets and liabilities that are
attributable to interest rate or foreign exchange volatility .
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designa ted as fair value
hedges are recorded in earnings, together and in the same
income statement line item with changes in the fair value of the
related hedged item. If a derivative instrument in a fair value
hedge is terminated or the hedge designation removed, the
previous adjustments to the carrying value of the hedged asset
or liability are subsequently accounted for in the same manner
as other components of the carrying value of that asset or
liability . For interest-earning assets and interest-bearing
liabilities, such adjustments are amortized to earnings over the
remaining life of the respective asset or liability .
Cash flow hedges are used primarily to minimize the
variability in cash flows  of assets and liabilities or forecasted
transactions caused by interest rate or foreign exchange rate
fluctuations. The Corporation also uses cash flow hedges to
hedge the price risk associated with deferred compensation.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives used in cash flow
hedges are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive
income (OCI) and are reclassified into the line item in the
income state ment in which the hedged item is recorded in the
same period the hedged  item affects earnings. Components of a
derivative that are excluded in assessing hedge effectiveness
are recorde d in the same income statement line item as the
hedged item.
Net investment hedges are used to manage the foreign
exchange rate sensitivity arising from a net investment in a
foreign operation. Changes in the spot prices of derivatives that
are designated as net investment hedges of foreign operations
are recorded as a component of accumulated OCI. The
remaining components of these derivatives are excluded in
Bank of America 102
assessing hedge effectiveness and are recorded in market
making and similar activities.
Securities
Debt securities are reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheet
at their trade date. Their classification is dependent on the
purpose for which the securities were acquired. Debt securities
purchased for use in the Corporation’ s trading activities are
reported in trading account assets at fair value  with unrealized
gains and losses included in market making and similar
activities. Substantially all other debt securities purchased are
used in the Corporation’ s asset and liability management (ALM)
activities and are reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheet
as either debt securitie s carried at fair value or as held-to-
maturity (HTM) debt securities. Debt securities carried at fair
value are either available-for-sale (AFS) securities with
unrealized gains and losses net-of-tax included in accumulated
OCI or carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses
reported in market making and similar activities. HTM debt
securities are debt securities that management has the intent
and ability to hold to maturity and are reported at amortized cost.
The Corpor ation evalua tes each AFS security where the
value has declined below amortized cost. If the Corporation
intends to sell or believes it is more likely than not that it will be
required to sell the debt security , it is written down to fair value
through earnings. For AFS debt securities the Corporation
intends to hold, the Corp oration evaluates the debt securities for
ECL except for debt securities that are guarant eed by the U.S.
Treasury , U.S. government agencies or sover eign entities of
high credit quality wher e the Corporation applies a zero credit
loss assumption. For the remaining AFS debt securities, the
Corporation considers qualitative parameters such as internal
and external credit rating s and the value of unde rlying collateral.
If an AFS debt security fails any of the qualitativ e parameters, a
discounted cash flow analysis is used by the Corporation to
determine if a portion of the unrealized loss is a result of an
expected credit loss. The Corporation will then recognize either
credit loss expense or a reversal of credit loss expense in other
income for the amount necessary to adjust the debt securities
valuation allowance to its current estimate of excepted credit
losses. Cash  flows expected to be collected are estimated using
all relevant information available such as remaining payment
terms, prepayment speeds, the financial condition of the issuer ,
expected defaults and the value of the underlying collateral. If
any of the decline in fair value is related to market factors, that
amount is recognized in accumulated OCI. In certain instances,
the credit loss may exceed the total decline in fair value, in
which case, the allowance recorded is limited to the difference
between the amortized cost and the fair value of the asset.
The Corporation separately evaluates its HTM debt securities
for any credit losses, of which substantially all qualify for the
zero loss assumption. For the remaining securities, the
Corporation performs a discounted cash flow analysis to
estimate any credit losses which are then recognized as part of
the allowance for credit losses.
Interest on debt securities, including amortization of
premiums and accretion of discounts, is included in interest
income. Premiums and discounts are amortized or accreted to
interest income at a constant effective yield over the contractual
lives of the securities. Realized gains and losses from the sales
of debt securities are determined using the specific identification
method.Equity securities with readily determinable fair values that are
not held for trading purposes are carried at fair value with
unrealized gains and losses included in other income. Equity
securities that do not have readily determinable fair values are
recorded at cost less impairment, if any, plus or minus qualifying
observable price changes. These securities are reported in other
assets.
Loans and Leases
Loans, with the exceptio n of loans accounted for under the fair
value option , are measured at historical cost and reported at
their outstanding principal balances net of any unearned income,
charge-of fs, unamortized  deferred fees and costs on originated
loans, and for purchased loans, net of any unamortized
premiums or discounts. Loan origination fees and certain direct
origination costs are deferred and recognized as adjustments to
interest income over the lives of the related loans. Unearned
income, discounts and premiums are amortized to interest
income using a level yield methodology . The Corporation elects
to account for certain consumer and commercial loans under the
fair value option with interest reported in interest income and
changes in fair value reported in market making and similar
activities or other income.
Under applicable accounting guidance, for reporting
purposes, the loan and lease portfolio is categor ized by portfolio
segment and, within each portfolio segment, by class of
financing receivables. A portfolio segment is defined as the level
at which an entity develops and documents a systematic
methodology to determine the allowance for credit losses, and a
class of financing receivables is defined as the level of
disaggregation of portfolio segments based  on the initial
measurement attribute,  risk characteristics and methods for
assessing risk. The Corporation’ s three  portfolio segments are
Consumer Real Estate, Credit Card and Other Consumer , and
Commercial. The classes within the Consum er Real Estate
portfolio segment are residential mortgage and home equity .
The classes within the Credit Card and Other Consumer
portfolio segment are credit card, direct/indirect consumer and
other consumer . The classes within the Comm ercial portfolio
segment are U.S. commercial, non-U.S . commercial,
commercial real estate, commercial lease financing and U.S.
small business commercial.
Leases
The Corporation provides equipment financing to its customers
through a variety of lessor arrangements. Direct financing leases
and sales-type leases are carried at the aggregate of lease
payments receivable plus the estimated residual value of the
leased property less unearned income, which is accreted to
interest income over the lease terms using methods that
approximate the interest method. Operating lease income is
recognized on a straight-line basis. The Corporation's lease
arrangements generally do not contain non-lease components.
Allowance for Credit Losses
The allowance for credit  losses includes both the allowance for
loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending
commitments and represents management’ s estimate of the
ECL in the Corporation’ s loan and lease portfolio, excluding
loans and unfunded lending commitments acco unted for under
the fair value option. The ECL on funded consumer and
commercial loans and leases is referred to as the allowance for
loan and lease losses and is reported separately as a contra-
asset to loans and leases on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The ECL for unfunded lending commitments, including home
103 Bank of America
equity lines of credit (HELOCs), standby letters of credit
(SBLCs) and binding unfunded loan commitments is reported on
the Consolidated Balance Sheet in accrued expenses and other
liabilities. The provision for credit losses related  to the loan and
lease portfolio and unfunded lending commitments is reported in
the Consolidated Statement of Income.
For loans and leases, the ECL is typically estimated using
quantitative methods that consider a variety of factors such as
historical loss experience, the current credit quality of the
portfolio as well as an economic outlook over the life of the loan.
The life of the loan for closed-ended products is based on the
contractual maturity of the loan adjusted for any expected
prepayments. The contractual maturity includes  any extension
options that are at the sole discretion of the borrower . For open-
ended products (e.g., lines of credit), the ECL is determined
based on the maximum repayment term associated with future
draws from credit lines unless those lines of credit are
unconditionally cancellable (e.g., credit cards) in which case the
Corporation does not record any allowance.
In its loss forecasting framework, the Corporation
incorporates forward-loo king information through the use of
macroeconomic scenarios applied over the forecasted life of the
assets. Thes e macroeco nomic scenarios include variables that
have historically been key drivers of increases and decreases in
credit losses. These variables include, but are not limited to,
unemployment rates, real estate prices, gross domestic product
levels and corporate bond spreads. As any one economic
outlook is inherently uncertain, the Corporation leverages
multiple scenarios. The scenarios that are chosen each quarter
and the weighting given to each scenario depend on a variety of
factors including recent economic events, leading economic
indicators, views of internal and third-party economists and
industry trends.
The estimate of credit losses includes expected recoveries of
amounts previously charged off (i.e., negative allowance). If a
loan has been charged off, the expected cash flows on the loan
are not limited by the current amortized cost balance. Instead,
expected cash flows can be assumed up to the unpaid principal
balance immediately prior to the charge-of f.
The allowan ce for loan and lease losses for troubled debt
restructurings (TDR) is measured based on the present value of
projected future lifetime principal and intere st cash flows
discounted at the loan’ s original effective interest rate, or in
cases where  foreclosure is probable or the loan is collateral
dependent, at the loan’ s collateral value or its observable market
price, if available. The measurement of ECL for the renegotiated
consumer credit card TDR portfolio is based on the present
value of projected cash flows discounted using the average TDR
portfolio contractual interest rate, excluding prom otionally priced
loans, in effect prior to restructuring. Projected cash flows for
TDRs use the same economic outlook as discussed above. For
purposes of computing this specific loss component of the
allowance, larger impaired loans are evaluated individually and
smaller impaired loans are evaluated as a pool.
Also include d in the allowance for loan and lease losses are
qualitative reserves to cover losses that are expected but, in the
Corporation's assessme nt, may not be adequately reflected in
the quantit ative meth ods or the economi c assumptions
described above. For example, factors that the Corporation
considers include changes in lending policies and procedures,
business conditions, the nature and size of the portfolio, portfolio
concentrations, the volume and severity of past due loans and
nonaccrual loans, the effect of external factors such as
competition, and legal and regulatory requirements, amongothers. Further, the Corporation considers  the inherent
uncertainty in quantitative models that are built on historical
data.
With the exception of the Corporation's credit card portfolio,
the Corporation does not include reserves for interest receivable
in the meas urement of the allowance for credit losses as the
Corporation generally  classifies consumer loans as
nonperforming at 90 days past due and reverses interest income
for these loans at that time. For credit card loans, the
Corporation reserves for interest and fees as part of the
allowance for loan and lease losses. Upon charge-of f of a credit
card loan, the Corporatio n reverses the interest and fee income
against the income statement line item where it was originally
recorded.
The Corporation has identified the following three  portfolio
segments and measures the allowance for credit losses using
the following methods.
Consumer Real Estate
To estimate ECL for consumer loans secured by residential real
estate, the Corporation estimates the number of loans that will
default over the life of the existing portfolio, after factoring in
estimated prepayments, using quantitative modeling
methodologies. The attributes that are most significant in
estimating the Corporation’ s ECL include refreshed loan-to-
value (LTV) or, in the case of a subordinated lien, refreshed
combined LTV (CLTV), borrower credit score, months since
origination and geography , all of which are further broken down
by present collection status (whether the loan is current,
delinquent, in default, or in bankruptcy). The estimates are
based on the Corporation’ s historical experience with the loan
portfolio, adjusted to reflect the economic outlook. The outlook
on the unemployment rate and consumer real estate prices are
key factors that impact the frequency and severity of loss
estimates. The Corporation does not reserve for credit losses on
the unpaid principal balance of loans insured by the Federal
Housing Administration (FHA) and long-term standby loans, as
these loans are fully insured. The Corporation records a reserve
for unfunded lending commitments for the ECL associated with
the undrawn portion of the Corporation’ s HELOCs, which can
only be canceled by the Corporation if certain criteria are met.
The ECL associated with these unfunded lendin g commitments
is calculated using the same models and methodologies noted
above and incorporate utilization assumptions at time of default.
For loans that are more than 180 days past due and
collateral-dependent TDRs, the Corporatio n bases the
allowance on the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral
as of the reporting date less costs to sell. The fair value of the
collateral securing these loans is generally determined using an
automated valuation model (AVM) that estimates the value of a
property by reference to market data including sales of
comparable properties and price trends specific to the
Metropolitan Statistical Area in which the property being valued
is located. In the event that an AVM value is not available, the
Corporation utilizes publicized indices or if these methods
provide less reliable valuations, the Corporation uses appraisals
or broker price opinio ns to estimate the fair value of the
collateral. While there is inherent imprec ision in these
valuations, the Corporation believes that they are representative
of this portfolio in the aggregate.
For loans that are more than 180 days past due and
collateral-dependent TDRs, with the exception of the
Corporation’ s fully insured portfolio, the outstan ding balance of
loans that is in excess of the estimated property value after
Bank of America 104
adjusting for costs to sell is charged off. If the estimated property
value decreases in periods subsequent to the initial charge-of f,
the Corporation will record an additional charge-of f; however , if
the value increases in periods subsequent to the charge-of f, the
Corporation will adjust the allowance to account for the increase
but not to a level above the cumulative charge-of f amount.
Credit Cards and Other Consumer
Credit cards  are revolving lines of credit without a defined
maturity date. The estimated life of a credit card receivable is
determined by estimating the amount and timing of expected
future payments (e.g., borrowers making full payments,
minimum payments or somewhere in between) that it will take
for a receiv able balance to pay off. The ECL on the future
payments incorporates the spending behavior of a borrower
through time using key borrower-specific factors and the
economic outlook described above. The Corporation applies all
expected payments in accordance with the Credit Card
Accountability Responsi bility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (i.e.,
paying down the highest interest rate bucket first). Then
forecasted future payments are prioritized to pay off the oldest
balance until it is brought to zero or an expected charge-of f
amount. Unemployment rate outlook, borrower credit score,
delinquency status and historical payment behavior are all key
inputs into the credit card receivable loss forecasting model.
Future draws on the credit card lines are excluded from the ECL
as they are unconditionally cancellable.
The ECL for the consu mer vehicle lending portfolio is also
determined using quantitative methods supplemented with
qualitative analysis. The quantitative model estimates ECL
giving consi deration to key borrower and loan characteristics
such as delinquency status, borrower credit score, LTV ratio,
underlying collateral type and collateral value.
Commercial
The ECL on commercial loans is forecasted using models that
estimate credit losses over the loan’ s contractual life at an
individual loan level. The models use the contractual terms to
forecast future principal cash flows while also considering
expected prepayments. For open-ended commitments such as
revolving lines of credit, changes in funded balance are captured
by forecastin g a borrower ’s draw and payment behavior over the
remaining life of the commitment. For loans collateralized with
commercial real estate and for which the underlying asset is the
primary source of repayment, the loss forecasting models
consider key loan and customer attributes such as LTV ratio, net
operating income and debt service coverage , and captures
variations in behavior according to property type and region. The
outlook on the unemployment rate, gross domestic product, and
forecasted real estate prices are utilized to determine indicators
such as rent levels and vacancy rates, which impact the ECL
estimate. For all other commercial loans and leases, the loss
forecasting model determines the probabilities  of transition to
different credit risk ratings or default at each point over the life of
the asset based on the borrower ’s current credit risk rating,
industry sector, size of the exposure and the geographic market.
The severity  of loss is determined based on the type of collateral
securing the exposure, the size of the exposure, the borrower ’s
industry sector , any guarantors and the geographic market.
Assumptions of expected loss are conditioned to the economic
outlook, and the model considers key economic variables such
as unemployment rate, gross domestic product, corporate bond
spreads, real estate and other asset prices and equity market
returns.In addition to the allowance for loan and lease losses, the
Corporation also estimates ECL related to unfunded lending
commitments such as letters of credit, financial guarantees,
unfunded bankers accep tances and binding loan commitments,
excluding commitments accounted for under the fair value
option. Reserves are estimated for the unfunded exposure using
the same models and methodologies as the funded exposure
and are reported as reserves for unfunded lending
commitments.
Nonperforming Loans and Leases, Charge-offs and
Delinquencies
Nonperforming loans and leases generally include loans and
leases that have been placed on nonaccrual status. Loans
accounted for under the fair value option and LHFS are not
reported as nonperforming.
In accordance with the Corporation’ s policies, consumer real
estate-secured loans, including residential mortgages and home
equity loans, are generally placed on nonaccrual status and
classified as nonperforming at 90 days past due unless
repayment of the loan is insured by the FHA or through
individually insured long-term standby agreements with Fannie
Mae (FNMA) or Freddie Mac (FHLMC) (the fully-insured
portfolio). Residential mortgage loans in the fully-insured
portfolio are not placed on nonaccrual status and, therefore, are
not reported as nonper forming. Junior-lien home equity loans
are placed on nonaccrual status and classified as nonperforming
when the underlying first-lien mortgage loan becomes 90 days
past due even if the junior-lien loan is current. The outstanding
balance of real estate-s ecured loans that is in excess of the
estimated property value less costs to sell is charged off no later
than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days
past due unless the loan is fully insured, or for loans in
bankruptcy , within 60 days of receipt of notification of filing, with
the remaining balance classified as nonperforming.
Consumer loans secured by personal property , credit card
loans and other unsecu red consumer loans are not placed on
nonaccrual status prior to charge-of f and, therefore, are not
reported as nonperforming loans, except for certain secured
consumer loans, including those that have been modified in a
TDR. Person al property- secured loans (including auto loans) are
charged off to collateral value no later than the end of the month
in which the account becomes 120 days past due, or upon
repossession of an auto or, for loans in bankruptcy , within 60
days of receipt of notification of filing. Credit card and other
unsecured customer loans are charged off no later than the end
of the month in which the account becomes 180 days past due,
within 60 days after receipt of notification of death or bank ruptcy ,
or upon confirmation of fraud.
Commercial loans and leases, excluding business card
loans, that are past due 90 days or more as to principal or
interest, or where reasonable doubt exists as to timely collection,
including loans that are individually identified as being impaired,
are generally placed on nonaccrual status and classified as
nonperforming unless well-secured and in the process of
collection.
Business card loans are charged off in the same manner as
consumer credit card loans. Other commercial loans and leases
are generall y charged off when all or a portion  of the principal
amount is determined to be uncollectible.
The entire balance of a consumer loan or comm ercial loan or
lease is contractually delinquent if the minimum payment is not
received by the specifi ed due date on the customer ’s billing
statement. Interest and fees continue to accrue on past due
loans and leases until the date the loan is placed on nonaccrual
105 Bank of America
status, if applicable. Accrued interest receivable is reversed
when loans and leases are placed on nonaccrual status. Interest
collections on nonaccruing loans and leases for which the
ultimate collectability of principal is uncertain are applied as
principal reductions; otherwise, such collections are credited to
income when received. Loans and leases may be restored to
accrual statu s when all principal and interest is current and full
repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest is
expected.
Troubled Debt Restructurings
Consumer and commercial loans and leases whose contractual
terms have been restructured in a manner that grants a
concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties are
classified as TDRs. Concessions could include a reduction in the
interest rate to a rate that is below market on the loan, payment
extensions, forgiveness of principal, forbearance or other actions
designed to maximize collections. Loans that are carried at fair
value and LHFS are not classified as TDRs.
Loans and leases whose contractual terms have been
modified in a TDR and are current at the time of restructuring
may remain on accrual status if there is demonstrated
performance prior to the restructuring and payment in full under
the restructured terms is expected. Otherwise, the loans are
placed on nonaccrual status and reported as nonperforming,
except for fully-insured consumer real estate loans, until there is
sustained repayment performance for a reasonable period,
generally six months. If accruing TDRs cease to perform in
accordance with their modified contractual terms, they are
placed on nonaccrual status and reported as nonperforming
TDRs.
Secured consumer loans that have been discharged in
Chapter 7 bankruptcy and have not been reaffirmed by the
borrower are classified as TDRs at the time of discharge. Such
loans are placed on nonaccrual status and written down to the
estimated collateral value less costs to sell no later than at the
time of discharge. If these loans are contractually current,
interest collections are generally recorded in interest income on
a cash  basis. Consume r real estate-secured loans for which a
binding offer to restructure has been extended are also
classified as TDRs. Credit card and other unsecured consumer
loans that have been renegotiated in a TDR generally remain on
accrual status until the loan is either paid in full or charged off,
which occurs no later than the end of the month in which the
loan becomes 180 days past due or, for loans that have been
placed on a fixed payment plan, 120 days past due.
A loan that had previou sly been modified in a TDR and is
subsequently refinanced  under current underwrit ing standards at
a market rate with no concessionary terms is accounted for as a
new loan and is no longer reported as a TDR.
COVID-19 Programs
The Corporation has implemented various consumer and
commercial loan modification programs to provide its borrowers
relief from the economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic
(the pandemic). In accordance with the Coronavirus Aid, Relief,
and Economic Security Act (CARES Act), the Corporation has
elected to not apply TDR classification to eligible COVID-19
related loan modifications that were performed after March 1,
2020 to loans that were current as of December 31,
2019. Accordingly , these restructurings are not classified as
TDRs. The availability of this election expires upon the earlier of
January 1, 2022 or 60 days after the national emergency related
to COVID-19 terminates. Inaddition, for loans modif ied in response to the pandemic that do
not meet the above criteria (e.g., current payment status at
December 31, 2019), the Corporation is applying the guidance
included in an interagency statement issued by the bank
regulatory agencies. This guidance states that loan
modifications performed in light of the pandemic, including loan
payment deferrals that are up to six months in duration, that
were granted to borrowers who were current as of the
implementation date of a loan modificatio n program or
modifications granted under government mandated modification
programs, are not TDRs. For loan modifications that include a
payment deferral and are not TDRs, the borrowers' past due and
nonaccrual status have not been impacted during the deferral
period. The Corporation has continued to accrue interest during
the deferral period using  a constant effective yield method. For
most mortgage, HELOC and commercial loan modifications, the
contractual interest that accrued during the deferral period is
payable at the maturity of the loan. The Corporation includes
these amou nts with the unpaid principal balance when
computing its allowance for credit losses. Amounts that are
subsequently deemed uncollectible are written  off against the
allowance for credit losses.
Loans Held-for-sale
Loans that the Corpora tion intends to sell in the foreseeable
future, including residential mortgages, loan syndications, and to
a lesser degree, commercial real estate, consumer finance and
other loans, are reporte d as LHFS and are carried at the lower
of aggregate cost or fair value. The Corporati on accounts for
certain LHFS, including residential mortgage LHFS, under the
fair value option. Loan origination costs for LHFS carried at the
lower of cost or fair value are capitalized as part of the carrying
value of the loans and, upon the sale of a loan, are recognized
as part of the gain or loss in noninterest income . LHFS that are
on nonaccrual status and are reported as nonperforming, as
defined in the policy herein, are reported separately from
nonperforming loans and leases.
Premises and Equipment
Premises and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated
depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization
are recognized using the straight-line method over the estimated
useful lives of the assets. Estimated lives range up to 40 years
for buildings, up to 12 years for furniture and equipment, and the
shorter of lease term or estimated useful life for leasehold
improvements.
Other Assets
For the Corporation’ s financial assets that are measured at
amortized cost and are not included in debt securities or loans
and leases on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Corporation
evaluates these assets for ECL using various techniques. For
assets that are subject  to collateral maintena nce provisions,
including federal funds sold and securities  borrowed or
purchased under agreements to resell, wher e the collateral
consists of daily margining of liquid and marketable assets
where the margining is expected to be maintained into the
foreseeable future, the expected losses are assumed to be zero.
For all other assets, the Corporation performs qualitative
analyses, including consideration of historical losses and current
economic conditions, to estimate any ECL which are then
included in a valuation account that is recorded as a contra-
asset against the amortized cost basis of the financial asset.
 
Bank of America 106
Lessee Arrangements
Substantially all of the Corporation’ s lessee arrangements are
operating leases. Unde r these arrangements, the Corporation
records right-of-use assets and lease liabilities at lease
commencement. Right-of-use assets are reported in other
assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, and the related
lease liabilities are reported in accrued expenses and other
liabilities. All leases are recorded on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet except leases with an initial term less than 12 months for
which the Corporation made the short-term lease election.
Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the
lease term and is recorded in occupancy and equipment
expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
The Corporation made an accounting policy election not to
separate lease and non-lease components of a contract that is
or contains a lease for its real estate and equipment leases. As
such, lease payments represent payments on both lease and
non-lease components . At lease commencement, lease
liabilities are recognized based on the prese nt value of the
remaining lease payments and discount ed using the
Corporation’ s increment al borrowing rate. Right-of-use assets
initially equal the lease liability , adjusted for any lease payments
made prior to lease commencement and for any lease
incentives.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Goodwill is the purchase premium after adjusting for the fair
value of net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is
reviewed for potential impairment on an annual basis, or when
events or circumstances indicate a potential impairment, at the
reporting unit level. A reporting unit is a business segment or
one level below a business segment.
The Corporation assesses the fair value of each reporting
unit against its carrying value, including goodwill, as measured
by allocated equity . For purposes of goodwill impairment testing,
the Corporation utilizes allocated equity as a proxy for the
carrying value of its reporting units. Allocated equity in the
reporting units is comprised of allocated capital plus capital for
the portion of goodwill and intangibles specifically assigned to
the reporting unit.
In performing its goodwi ll impairment testing, the Corporation
first assesses qualitative factors to determine whether it is more
likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than
its carrying value. Qualitative factors include, among other
things, macroeconomic conditions, industry  and market
considerations, financial performance of the respective reporting
unit and other releva nt entity- and reporti ng-unit specific
considerations.
If the Corporation conclu des it is more likely than not that the
fair value of a reporting  unit is less than its carrying value, a
quantitative assessment  is performed. The Corporation has an
unconditional option to bypass the qualitative assessment for
any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to
performing the quantitative goodwill impairment test. The
Corporation may resume performing the qualitative assessment
in any subsequent period.
When perfo rming the quantitative assessmen t, if the fair
value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill of
the reportin g unit would not be considered impaired. If the
carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, a
goodwill impairment loss would be recognized for the amount by
which the reporting unit’s allocated equity exceeds its fair value.
An impairment loss recognized cannot exceed the amount of
goodwill assigned to a reporting unit. An impairment loss
establishes a new basis in the goodwill, and subsequentreversals of goodwill impairment losses are not permitted under
applicable accounting guidance.
For intangible assets subject to amortization, an impairment
loss is recognized if the carrying value of the intangible asset is
not recovera ble and exceeds fair value. The carrying value of
the intangible asset is considered not recoverable if it exceeds
the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from
the use of the asset. Intangible assets deemed to have indefinite
useful lives are not subject to amortization. An impairment loss
is recognize d if the carry ing value of the intangible asset with an
indefinite life exceeds its fair value.
Variable Interest Entities
A VIE is an entity that lacks equity investors or whose equity
investors do not have a controlling financial interest in the entity
through their equity investments. The Corporation consolidates a
VIE if it has both the power to direct the activities of the VIE that
most signific antly impac t the VIE’s economic performance and
an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that
could potentially be significant to the VIE. On a quarterly basis,
the Corporation reassesses its involvement with the VIE and
evaluates the impact of changes in governing documents and its
financial interests in the VIE. The consolidation status of the
VIEs with which the Corporation is involved may change as a
result of such reassessments.
The Corpor ation primar ily uses VIEs for its securitization
activities, in which the Corporation transfers whole loans or debt
securities into a trust or other vehicle. When the Corporation is
the servicer of whole loans held in a securitization trust,
including non-agency residential mortgages, home equity loans,
credit cards, and other loans, the Corporation has the power to
direct the most significant activities of the trust. The Corporation
generally does not have the power to direct the most significant
activities of a residential mortgage agency trust except in certain
circumstances in which the Corporation holds substantially all of
the issued securities and has the unilateral right to liquidate the
trust. The power to direct the most significan t activities of a
commercial mortgage securitization trust is typically held by the
special servicer or by the party holding specific subordinate
securities which embody certain controlling rights. The
Corporation consolidates a whole-loan securitization trust if it
has the power to direct  the most significant activities and also
holds securities issued by the trust or has other contractual
arrangements, other than standard representations and
warranties, that could potentially be significant to the trust.
The Corporation may also transfer trading account securities
and AFS securities into municipal bond or resecuritization trusts.
The Corpo ration consolidates a municipal bond or
resecuritization trust if it has control over the ongoing activities of
the trust such as the remarketing of the trust’ s liabilities or, if
there are no ongoing activities, sole discretion over the design of
the trust, including the identification of securities to be
transferred in and the structure of securities to be issued, and
also retains securities or has liquidity or other commitments that
could potent ially be significant to the trust. The Corporation does
not consolidate a munic ipal bond or resecuritization trust if one
or a limited number of third-party investors share responsibility
for the design of the trust or have control over the significant
activities of the trust through liquidation or other substantive
rights.
Other VIEs used by the Corporation include collateralized
debt obligati ons (CDOs) , investment vehicles created on behalf
of customers and other  investment vehicles. The Corporation
does not routinely serve as collateral manager for CDOs and,
therefore, does not typically have the power to direct the
107 Bank of America
activities that most significantly impact the economic
performance of a CDO. However , following an event of default, if
the Corporation is a majority holder of senior securities issued
by a CDO and acquires the power to manage  its assets, the
Corporation consolidates the CDO.
The Corporation consolidates a customer or other investment
vehicle if it has control over the initial design of the vehicle or
manages the assets in the vehicle and also absorbs potentially
significant gains or losses through an investment in the vehicle,
derivative contracts or other arrangements. The Corporation
does not consolidate an investment vehicle if a single investor
controlled the initial design of the vehicle or manages the assets
in the vehic les or if the Corporation does not have a variable
interest that could potentially be significant to the vehicle.
Retained interests in securitized assets are initially recorded
at fair value. In addition, the Corporation may invest in debt
securities issued by unconsolidated VIEs. Fair values of these
debt securities, which are classified as trading account assets,
debt securiti es carried at fair value or HTM securities, are based
primarily on quoted market prices in active or inactive markets.
Generally , quoted market prices for retained residual interests
are not available; therefore, the Corporation estimates fair
values based on the present value of the associated expected
future cash flows.
Fair Value
The Corpor ation measu res the fair values of its assets and
liabilities, where applicable, in accordance with accounting
guidance that requires an entity to base fair value on exit price.
Under this guidance, an entity is required to maximize the use of
observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs
in measuring fair value. Under applicable accounting standards,
fair value measurements are categorized into one of three levels
based on the inputs to the valuation technique with the highest
priority given  to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets and
the lowest priority given to unobservable inputs. The Corporation
categorizes its fair value  measurements of financial instruments
based on this three-level hierarchy .
Level 1Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for
identical assets or liabilities. Level 1 asse ts and
liabilities include debt and equity securities and
derivative contracts that are traded in an active
exchange market, as well as certain U.S. Treasury
securities that are highly liquid and are actively traded
in OTC markets.
Level 2Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as
quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted
prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs
that are observable or can be corroborated by
observable market data for substantially the full term of
the assets or liabilities. Level 2 assets and liabilities
include debt securities with quoted prices that are
traded less frequently than exchange-traded
instruments and derivative contracts where fair value is
determined using a pricing model with inputs that are
observable in the market or can be derived principally
from or corroborated by observable market data. This
category generally includes U.S. governmen t and
agency mortgage-backed (MBS) and asset-backed
securities (ABS), corporate debt securities, derivative
contracts, certain loans and LHFS.
Level 3Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no
market activity and that are significant to the overallfair value of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 assets and
liabilities include financ ial instruments for which the
determination of fair value requires significant
management judgment or estimation. The fair value for
such assets and liabilities is generally determine d using
pricing mode ls, discount ed cash flow methodolo gies or
similar techniques that incorporate the assumptions a
market participant would use in pricing the asset or
liability . This category generally includes retained
residual interests in securitizations, consumer MSRs,
certain ABS, highly structured, complex or long-dated
derivative contracts, certain loans and LHFS, IRLCs
and certain  CDOs where independent pricing
information cannot be obtained for a significant portion
of the underlying assets.
Income Taxes
There are two compone nts of income tax expense: current and
deferred. Current incom e tax expense reflects taxes to be paid
or refunded for the current period. Deferred income tax expense
results from changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities
between periods. These gross deferred tax assets and liabilities
represent decreases or increases in taxes expected to be paid in
the future because of future reversals of temporary differences
in the bases  of assets and liabilities as measured by tax laws
and their bases as reported in the financial statements. Deferred
tax assets are also recognized for tax attribut es such as net
operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards.
Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets
to the amou nts management concludes are more likely than not
to be realized.
Income tax benefits are recognized and measured based
upon a two-step model:  first, a tax position must be more likely
than not to be sustained based solely on its technical merits in
order to be recognized, and second, the benefit is measured as
the largest dollar amount of that position that is more likely than
not to be sustained upon settlement. The differen ce between the
benefit recognized and the tax benefit claimed on a tax return is
referred to as an unrecognized tax benefit. The Corporation
records income tax-related interest and penaltie s, if applicable,
within income tax expense.
Revenue Recognition
The following summarizes the Corporation’ s revenue recognition
accounting policies for certain noninterest income activities.
Card Income
Card income includes annual, late and over-limit fees as well as
interchange, cash advances and other miscellan eous items from
credit and debit card transactions and from processing card
transactions for merchants. Card income is presented net of
direct costs. Interchange fees are recognized upon settlement of
the credit and debit card payment transactions and are generally
determined on a percentage basis for credit cards and fixed
rates for debit cards based on the corresponding payment
network’ s rates. Substantially all card fees are recognized at the
transaction date, except for certain time-based fees such as
annual fees, which are recognized over 12 months. Fees
charged to cardholders and merchants that are estimated to be
uncollectible are reserved in the allowance for loan and lease
losses. Inclu ded in direct cost are rewards and credit card
partner payments. Rewards paid to cardholders are related to
points earne d by the cardholder that can be redeemed for a
broad range of rewards including cash, travel and gift cards. The
points to be redeemed are estimated based on past redemption
behavior , card product type, account
Bank of America 108
transaction activity and other historical card performance. The
liability is reduced as the points are redeemed. The Corporation
also makes payments to credit card partners. The payments are
based on revenue-sharing agreements that are generally driven
by cardholde r transactions and partner sales volumes. As part of
the revenue-sharing agreements, the credi t card partner
provides the Corporation exclusive rights to market to the credit
card partner ’s members or customers on behalf of the
Corporation.
Service Charges
Service charges include deposit and lending-related fees.
Deposit-related fees consist of fees earned on consumer and
commercial deposit activities and are generally recognized when
the transactions occur or as the service is perfor med. Consumer
fees are earned on consumer deposit accounts for account
maintenance and various transaction-based services, such as
ATM transactions, wire transfer activities, check and money
order proce ssing and insuf ficient funds/overdraft transactions.
Commercial deposit-rel ated fees are from the Corporation’ s
Global Transaction Services business and consist of commercial
deposit and treasury management services, including account
maintenance and other services, such as payroll, sweep account
and other cash management services. Lending-related fees
generally represent transactional fees earned from certain loan
commitments, financial guarantees and SBLCs.
Investment and Brokerage Services
Investment and brokerage services consist of asset
management and brokerage fees. Asset manag ement fees are
earned from the management of client assets under advisory
agreements or the full discretion of the Corporation’ s financial
advisors (collectively referred to as assets under management
(AUM)). Asset management fees are earned as a percentage of
the client’s AUM and generally range from 50 basis points  (bps)
to 150 bps of the AUM. In cases where a third party is used to
obtain a client’ s investment allocation, the fee remitted to the
third party is recorded net and is not reflected in the transaction
price, as the Corporation is an agent for those services.
Brokerage fees include income earned from transaction-
based services that are performed as part of investment
management services and are based on a fixed price per unit or
as a percent age of the total transaction amount.  Brokerage fees
also include distribution fees and sales commissions that are
primarily in the Global Wealth & Investment Management
(GWIM ) segment and are earne d over time. In addition, primarily
in the Global Markets  segment, brokerage fees are earned when
the Corpora tion fills customer orders to buy or sell various
financial products or when it acknowledges, affirms, settles and
clears transactions and/or submits trade information to the
appropriate clearing broker . Certain customers pay brokerage,
clearing and/or exchang e fees imposed by relevant regulatory
bodies or exchanges in order to execute or clear trades. These
fees are recorded net and are not reflected in the transaction
price, as the Corporation is an agent for those services.
Investment Banking Income
Investment banking income includes underwrit ing income and
financial advisory services income. Underwriting  consists of fees
earned for the placement of a customer ’s debt or equity
securities. The revenue is generally earned based on a
percentage of the fixed  number of shares or principal placed.
Once the number of shares or notes is determined and the
service is completed, the underwriting fees are recognized. The
Corporation incurs certain out-of-pocket expense s, such as legal
costs, in performing these services. These expenses arerecovered through the revenue the Corporation earns from the
customer and are included in operating expens es. Syndication
fees represent fees earned as the agent or lead lender
responsible for structuring, arranging and administering a loan
syndication.
Financial advisory services consist of fees earned for
assisting clients with transactions related to mergers and
acquisitions and financial restructurings. Revenue varies
depending on the size of the transaction and scope of services
performed and is genera lly contingent on succe ssful completion
of the transaction. Revenue is typically recognized once the
transaction is completed and all services have been rendered.
Additionally , the Corporation may earn a fixed fee in merger and
acquisition transactions to provide a fairness opinion, with the
fees recognized when the opinion is delivered to the client.
Other Revenue Measurement and Recognition Policies
The Corpor ation did not disclose the value of any open
performance obligations at December 31, 2020, as its contracts
with customers generally have a fixed term that is less than one
year, an open term with a cancellation period that is less than
one year, or provisions that allow the Corporati on to recognize
revenue at the amount it has the right to invoice.
Earnings Per Common Share
Earnings per common share (EPS) is computed by dividing net
income allocated to common shareholders by the weighted-
average common shares outstanding, exclu ding unvested
common shares subject to repurchase or cancellation. Net
income allocated to common shareholders is net income
adjusted for preferred stock dividends including dividends
declared, accretion of discounts on preferred stock including
accelerated accretion when preferred stock is repaid early , and
cumulative dividends related to the current dividend period that
have not been declared as of period end, less income allocated
to participating securities. Diluted EPS is computed by dividing
income allocated to common shareholders plus dividends on
dilutive convertible preferred stock and preferred stock that can
be tendered to exercise warrants, by the weighted-average
common shares outstanding plus amounts representing the
dilutive effect of stock options outstanding, restricted stock,
restricted stock units (RSUs), outstanding warrants and the
dilution resulting from the conversion of convertible preferred
stock, if applicable.
Foreign Currency T ranslation
Assets, liabilities and operations of foreign branches and
subsidiaries are recorded based on the functional currency of
each entity . When the functional currency of a foreign operation
is the local currency , the assets, liabilities and operations are
translated, for consolidation purposes, from the local currency to
the U.S. dollar reporting  currency at period-end rates for assets
and liabilities and generally at average rates for results of
operations. The resulting unrealized gains and losses are
reported as a component of accumulated OCI, net-of-tax. When
the foreign entity’ s functional currency is the U.S. dollar , the
resulting remeasurement gains or losses on foreign currency-
denominated assets or liabilities are included in earnings.
Paycheck Protection Program
The Corporation is participating in the Paycheck Protection
Program (PPP), which is a loan program that originated from the
CARES Act and was subsequently expanded by the Paycheck
Protection Program and Health Care Enhance ment Act. The
PPP is designed to provide U.S. small busine sses with cash-
flow assistance through loans fully guaranteed by the Small
109 Bank of America
Business Administration (SBA). If the borrower meets certain
criteria and uses the proceeds towards certain eligible
expenses, the borrower ’s obligation to repay the loan can be
forgiven up to the full principal amount of the loan and any
accrued interest. Upon borrower forgiveness, the SBA pays the
Corporation for the principal and accrued intere st owed on the
loan. If the full principal of the loan is not forgiv en, the loan will
operate according to the original loan terms with the 100 percent
SBA guaranty remaining. As of December 31, 2020, theCorporation had approximately 332,000  PPP loans with a
carrying value of $22.7 billion. As compensatio n for originating
the loans, the Corporation received lender processing fees from
the SBA, which are capitalized, along with the loan origination
costs, and will be amorti zed over the loans’ contractual lives and
recognized as interest income. Upon forgiveness of a loan and
repayment by the SBA, any unrecognized net capitalized fees
and costs related to the loan will be recognized as interest
income in that period.
NOTE 2 Net Interest Income and Noninterest Income
The table below presents the Corporation’ s net interest income and noninterest income disaggr egated by revenue source for 2020,
2019 and 2018. For more information, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles. For a disaggregation of
noninterest income by business segment and All Other , see Note 23 – Business Segment Information .
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Net interest income
Interest income
Loans and leases $ 34,029 $ 43,086 $ 40,811 
Debt securities 9,790 11,806 11,724 
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell 903 4,843 3,176 
Trading account assets 4,128 5,196 4,811 
Other interest income 2,735 6,305 6,247 
Total interest income 51,585 71,236 66,769 
Interest expense
Deposits 1,943 7,188 4,495 
Short-term borrowings 987 7,208 5,839 
Trading account liabilities 974 1,249 1,358 
Long-term debt 4,321 6,700 6,915 
Total interest expense 8,225 22,345 18,607 
Net interest income $ 43,360 $ 48,891 $ 48,162 
Noninterest income
Fees and commissions
Card income
Interchange fees $ 3,954 $ 3,834 $ 3,866 
Other card income 1,702 1,963 1,958 
Total card income 5,656 5,797 5,824 
Service charges
Deposit-related fees 5,991 6,588 6,667 
Lending-related fees 1,150 1,086 1,100 
Total service charges 7,141 7,674 7,767 
Investment and brokerage services
Asset management fees 10,708 10,241 10,189 
Brokerage fees 3,866 3,661 3,971 
Total investment and brokerage services 14,574 13,902 14,160 
Investment banking fees
Underwriting income 4,698 2,998 2,722 
Syndication fees 861 1,184 1,347 
Financial advisory services 1,621 1,460 1,258 
Total investment banking fees 7,180 5,642 5,327 
Total fees and commissions 34,551 33,015 33,078 
Market making and similar activities 8,355 9,034 9,008 
Other income (loss) (738) 304 772 
Total noninterest income $ 42,168 $ 42,353 $ 42,858 
Gross interchange fees were $9.2 billion, $10.0 billion and $9.5 billion for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively , and are presented net of $5.5 billion, $6.2 billion and $5.6 billion of expenses for
rewards and partner payments as well as certain other card costs for the same periods.(1)
(1)
Bank of America 110
NOTE 3 Derivatives
Derivative Balances
Derivatives are entered into on behalf of custom ers, for trading
or to support risk manag ement activities. Derivatives used in risk
management activities include derivatives that may or may not
be designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships.
Derivatives that are not designated in qualifying hedge
accounting relationships are referred to as other risk
management derivatives. For more information on theCorporation’ s derivative s and hedging activities , see Note 1 –
Summary of Significant Accounting Principles. The following
tables present derivative instruments included on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet in derivative assets and liabilities at
December 31, 2020 and 2019. Balances are presented on a
gross basis, prior to the application of counter party and cash
collateral netting. Total derivative assets and liabilities are
adjusted on an aggregate basis to take into consideration the
effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements and
have been reduced by cash collateral received or paid.
December 31, 2020
Gross Derivative Assets Gross Derivative Liabilities
(Dollars in billions)Contract/
Notional Trading and
Other Risk
Management
DerivativesQualifying
 Accounting
 Hedges TotalTrading and
Other Risk
Management
DerivativesQualifying
 Accounting
 Hedges Total
Interest rate contracts        
Swaps $ 13,242.8 $ 199.9 $ 10.9 $ 210.8 $ 209.3 $ 1.3 $ 210.6 
Futures and forwards 3,222.2 3.5 0.1 3.6 3.6 — 3.6 
Written options 1,530.5 — — — 40.5 — 40.5 
Purchased options 1,545.8 45.3 — 45.3 — — — 
Foreign exchange contracts  
Swaps 1,475.8 37.1 0.3 37.4 39.7 0.6 40.3 
Spot, futures and forwards 3,710.7 53.4 — 53.4 54.5 0.5 55.0 
Written options 289.6 — — — 4.8 — 4.8 
Purchased options 279.3 5.0 — 5.0 — — — 
Equity contracts  
Swaps 320.2 13.3 — 13.3 14.5 — 14.5 
Futures and forwards 106.2 0.3 — 0.3 1.4 — 1.4 
Written options 599.1 — — — 48.8 — 48.8 
Purchased options 541.2 52.6 — 52.6 — — — 
Commodity contracts   
Swaps 36.4 1.9 — 1.9 4.4 — 4.4 
Futures and forwards 63.6 2.0 — 2.0 1.0 — 1.0 
Written options 24.6 — — — 1.4 — 1.4 
Purchased options 24.7 1.5 — 1.5 — — — 
Credit derivatives    
Purchased credit derivatives:    
Credit default swaps 322.7 2.3 — 2.3 4.4 — 4.4 
Total return swaps/options 63.6 0.2 — 0.2 1.0 — 1.0 
Written credit derivatives:   
Credit default swaps 301.5 4.4 — 4.4 1.9 — 1.9 
Total return swaps/options 68.6 0.6 — 0.6 0.4 — 0.4 
Gross derivative assets/liabilities $ 423.3 $ 11.3 $ 434.6 $ 431.6 $ 2.4 $ 434.0 
Less: Legally enforceable master netting
agreements   (344.9)   (344.9)
Less: Cash collateral received/paid    (42.5)   (43.6)
Total derivative assets/liabilities    $ 47.2   $ 45.5 
Represents the total contract/notional amount of derivative assets and liabilities outstanding.
The net derivative asset (liability) and notional amount of written credit derivatives for which the Corporation held purchased credit derivatives with identical underlying referenced names were $2.2
billion and $ 269.8  billion at December 31, 2020.(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
111 Bank of America
December 31, 2019
Gross Derivative Assets Gross Derivative Liabilities
(Dollars in billions)Contract/
Notional Trading and
Other Risk
Management
DerivativesQualifying
 Accounting
 Hedges TotalTrading and
Other Risk
Management
DerivativesQualifying
 Accounting
 Hedges Total
Interest rate contracts        
Swaps $ 15,074.4 $ 162.0 $ 9.7 $ 171.7 $ 168.5 $ 0.4 $ 168.9 
Futures and forwards 3,279.8 1.0 — 1.0 1.0 — 1.0 
Written options 1,767.7 — — — 32.5 — 32.5 
Purchased options 1,673.6 37.4 — 37.4 — — — 
Foreign exchange contracts       
Swaps 1,657.7 30.3 0.7 31.0 31.7 0.9 32.6 
Spot, futures and forwards 3,792.7 35.9 0.1 36.0 38.7 0.3 39.0 
Written options 274.3 — — — 3.8 — 3.8 
Purchased options 261.6 4.0 — 4.0 — — — 
Equity contracts        
Swaps 315.0 6.5 — 6.5 8.1 — 8.1 
Futures and forwards 125.1 0.3 — 0.3 1.1 — 1.1 
Written options 731.1 — — — 34.6 — 34.6 
Purchased options 668.6 42.4 — 42.4 — — — 
Commodity contracts        
Swaps 42.0 2.1 — 2.1 4.4 — 4.4 
Futures and forwards 61.3 1.7 — 1.7 0.4 — 0.4 
Written options 33.2 — — — 1.4 — 1.4 
Purchased options 37.9 1.4 — 1.4 — — — 
Credit derivatives        
Purchased credit derivatives:        
Credit default swaps 321.6 2.7 — 2.7 5.6 — 5.6 
Total return swaps/options 86.6 0.4 — 0.4 1.3 — 1.3 
Written credit derivatives:       
Credit default swaps 300.2 5.4 — 5.4 2.0 — 2.0 
Total return swaps/options 86.2 0.8 — 0.8 0.4 — 0.4 
Gross derivative assets/liabilities  $ 334.3 $ 10.5 $ 344.8 $ 335.5 $ 1.6 $ 337.1 
Less: Legally enforceable master netting agreements    (270.4)   (270.4)
Less: Cash collateral received/paid    (33.9)   (28.5)
Total derivative assets/liabilities    $ 40.5   $ 38.2 
Represents the total contract/notional amount of derivative assets and liabilities outstanding.
The net derivative asset (liability) and notional amount of written credit derivatives for which the Corporation held purchased credit derivatives with identical underlying referenced names were $2.8
billion and $ 309.7  billion at December 31, 2019.
Offsetting of Derivatives
The Corporation enters into International Swaps and Derivatives
Association, Inc. (ISDA) master netting agreem ents or similar
agreements with substantially all of the Corporation’ s derivative
counterparties. Where legally enforceable, these master netting
agreements give the Corporation, in the event of default by the
counterparty , the right to liquidate securities held as collateral
and to offset receivables and payables with the same
counterparty . For purposes of the Consolidated Balance Sheet,
the Corporation offsets derivative assets and liabilities and cash
collateral held with the same counterparty where it has such a
legally enforceable master netting agreement.
The following table presents derivative instruments included
in derivative assets and liabilities on the Consolidated BalanceSheet at December 31, 2020 and 2019 by primary risk (e.g.,
interest rate risk) and the platform, where appli cable, on which
these derivatives are transacted. Balances are presented on a
gross basis, prior to the application of counter party and cash
collateral netting. Total gross derivative assets and liabilities are
adjusted on an aggregate basis to take into consideration the
effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements which
include reducing the balance for counterparty netting and cash
collateral received or paid.
For more information on offsetting of securiti es financing
agreements, see Note 10 – Federal Funds Sold or Purchased,
Securities Financing Agreements, Short-term Borrowings and
Restricted Cash .(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
Bank of America 112
Offsetting of Derivatives 
Derivative 
 AssetsDerivative
LiabilitiesDerivative 
 AssetsDerivative
Liabilities
(Dollars in billions) December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Interest rate contracts     
Over-the-counter $ 247.7 $ 243.5 $ 203.1 $ 196.6 
Exchange-traded — — 0.1 0.1 
Over-the-counter cleared 10.2 9.1 6.0 5.3 
Foreign exchange contracts
Over-the-counter 92.2 96.5 69.2 73.1 
Over-the-counter cleared 1.4 1.3 0.5 0.5 
Equity contracts
Over-the-counter 31.3 28.3 21.3 17.8 
Exchange-traded 32.3 31.0 26.4 22.8 
Commodity contracts
Over-the-counter 3.5 5.0 2.8 4.2 
Exchange-traded 0.7 0.7 0.8 0.8 
Over-the-counter cleared — — — 0.1 
Credit derivatives
Over-the-counter 5.2 5.6 6.4 6.6 
Over-the-counter cleared 2.2 1.9 2.5 2.2 
Total gross derivative assets/liabilities, before netting
Over-the-counter 379.9 378.9 302.8 298.3 
Exchange-traded 33.0 31.7 27.3 23.7 
Over-the-counter cleared 13.8 12.3 9.0 8.1 
Less: Legally enforceable master netting agreements and cash collateral received/paid
Over-the-counter (345.7) (347.2) (274.7) (269.3)
Exchange-traded (29.5) (29.5) (21.5) (21.5)
Over-the-counter cleared (12.2) (11.8) (8.1) (8.1)
Derivative assets/liabilities, after netting 39.3 34.4 34.8 31.2 
Other gross derivative assets/liabilities 7.9 11.1 5.7 7.0 
Total derivative assets/liabilities 47.2 45.5 40.5 38.2 
Less: Financial instruments collateral (16.1) (16.6) (14.6) (16.1)
Total net derivative assets/liabilities $ 31.1 $ 28.9 $ 25.9 $ 22.1 
OTC derivatives include bilateral transactions between the Corporation and a particular counterparty . OTC-cleared derivatives include bilateral transactions between the Corporation and a
counterparty where the transaction is cleared through a clearinghouse. Exchange-traded derivatives include listed options transacted on an exchange.
Consists of derivatives entered into under master netting agreements where the enforceability of these agreements is uncertain under bankruptcy laws in some countries or industries.
Amounts are limited to the derivati ve asset/liability balance and, accordingly , do not include excess collateral received/pledged. Financial instruments collateral includes securities collateral
received or pledged and cash securities held and posted at third-party custodians that are not offset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet but shown as a reduction to derive net derivative assets
and liabilities.
ALM and Risk Management Derivatives
The Corporation’ s ALM and risk management activities include
the use of derivatives to mitigate risk to the Corporation
including derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting
relationships and derivatives used in other risk management
activities. Interest rate, foreign exchange, equity , commodity and
credit contracts are utilized in the Corporation's ALM and risk
management activities.
The Corporation maintains an overall interest rate risk
management strategy that incorporates the use of interest rate
contracts, which are generally non-leveraged generic interest
rate and basis swaps, options, futures and forwards, to minimize
significant fluctuations in earnings caused by interest rate
volatility . The Corporation’ s goal is to manage interest rate
sensitivity and volatility so that movements in interest rates do
not significantly adversely affect earnings or capital. As a result
of interest rate fluctuations, hedged fixed-ra te assets and
liabilities appreciate or depreciate in fair value. Gains or losses
on the derivative instrum ents that are linked to the hedged fixed-
rate assets and liabilities  are expected to substantially offset this
unrealized appreciation or depreciation.
Market risk, including interest rate risk, can be substantial in
the mortgage business. Market risk in the mortg age business is
the risk that values of mortgage assets or revenues will be
adversely affected by changes in market conditions such as
interest rate movements. To mitigate the interest rate risk in
mortgage banking production income, the Corporation utilizesforward loan sale commitments and other derivative
instruments, including purchased options, and certain debt
securities. The Corporation also utilizes derivatives such as
interest rate options, interest rate swaps, forward settlement
contracts and eurodollar  futures to hedge certain market risks of
MSRs.
The Corporation uses foreign exchange contracts to manage
the foreign exchange risk associated with certain foreign
currency-denominated assets and liabilities, as well as the
Corporation’ s investmen ts in non-U.S. subsidiari es. Exposure to
loss on these contracts will increase or decrease over their
respective lives as currency exchange and interest rates
fluctuate.
The Corporation purchases credit derivatives  to manage
credit risk related to certain funded and unfunded credit
exposures. Credit derivatives include credit default swaps
(CDS), total return swaps and swaptions. These derivatives are
recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value with
changes in fair value recorded in other income.
Derivatives Designated as Accounting Hedges
The Corpora tion uses various types of interest rate and foreign
exchange derivative contracts to protect against changes in the
fair value of its assets  and liabilities due to fluctuations in
interest rates and exchange rates (fair value hedges). The
Corporation also uses these types of contracts to protect against
changes in the cash flows of its assets and liabilities,(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
113 Bank of America
and other forecasted transactions (cash flow hedges). The
Corporation hedges its net investment in consolidated non-U.S.
operations determined to have functional currencies other thanthe U.S. dollar using forward exchange contracts and cross-
currency basis swaps, and by issuing foreign currency-
denominated debt (net investment hedges).
Fair Value Hedges
The following table summarizes information related to fair value hedges for 2020, 2019 and 2018.
Gains and Losses on Derivatives Designated as Fair Value Hedges
Derivative Hedged Item
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Interest rate risk on long-term debt $ 7,091 $ 6,113 $ (1,538)$ (7,220)$ (6,110)$ 1,429 
Interest rate and foreign currency risk on long-term debt 783 119 (1,187) (783) (101) 1,079 
Interest rate risk on available-for-sale securities (44) (102) (52) 49 98 50 
Total $ 7,830 $ 6,130 $ (2,777)$ (7,954)$ (6,113)$ 2,558 
Amounts are recorded in interest expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
In 2020, 2019 and 2018, the deriva tive amount includes gains (losses) of $701 million, $73 million and $(116) million in interest expense, $73 million, $28 million and $(992) million in market
making and similar activities, and $9 million, $ 18 million and $(79) million in accumu lated OCI, respectively . Line item totals are in the Consolidated Statement of Income and on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet.
Amounts are recorded in interest income in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
The table below summa rizes the carrying value of hedged assets and liabilities that are designated and qualifying in fair value
hedging relationships along with the cumulative amount of fair value hedging adjustments included in the carrying value that have
been recorded in the current hedging relationships. These fair value hedging adjustments are open basis adjustments that are not
subject to amortization as long as the hedging relationship remains designated.
Designated Fair Value Hedged Assets (Liabilities)
Carrying ValueCumulative
Fair Value
Adjustments Carrying ValueCumulative
Fair Value
Adjustments
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Long-term debt $ (150,556)$ (8,910)$ (162,389)$ (8,685)
Available-for-sale debt securities 116,252 114 1,654 64 
Trading account assets 427 15 — — 
For assets, increase (decrease) to carrying value and for liabilities, (increase) decrease to carrying value.
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the cumulative fair value adjustment s remaining on long-term debt and AFS debt securities from discontinued hedging relationships resulted in an (increase)
decrease in the related liability of $(3.7) billion and $1.3 billion and an increase (decrease) in the related asset of $(69) million and $8 million, which are being amortized over the remaining
contractual life of the de-designated hedged items.
These amounts include the amortized cost basis of the prepayable financial assets used to designate hedging relationships in which the hedge d item is the last layer expected to be remaining at
the end of the hedging relationship (i.e. last-of-layer hedging relationship). At December 31, 2020, the amortized cost of the closed portfolios used in these hedging relationships was $34.6 billion,
of which $ 7.0 billion was designated in the last-of-layer hedging relationship. The cumulative basis adjustments associated with these hedging relationships were not significant.
Carrying value represents amortized cost.
Represents hedging activities related to precious metals inventory .
Cash Flow and Net Investment Hedges
The following table summarizes certain information related to
cash flow hedges and net investment hedges for 2020, 2019
and 2018. Of the $426 million after-tax net gain ($566 million
pretax) on derivatives in accumulated OCI at December 31,
2020, gains of $ 190 million after-tax ($ 254 million pretax) related
to both open and terminated hedges are expected to bereclassified into earnings in the next 12 months. These net gains
reclassified into earnings are expected to primarily increase net
interest income related to the respective hedged items. For
terminated cash flow hedges, the time period over which the
majority of the forecasted transactions are hedged is
approximately 3 years, with a maximum length of time for certain
forecasted transactions of 16 years.
Gains and Losses on Derivatives Designated as Cash Flow and Net Investment Hedges
Gains (Losses) Recognized in 
 Accumulated OCI on DerivativesGains (Losses) in Income 
 Reclassified from Accumulated OCI
(Dollars in millions, amounts pretax) 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Cash flow hedges
Interest rate risk on variable-rate assets $ 763 $ 671 $ (159)$ (7)$ (104)$ (165)
Price risk on forecasted MBS purchases 241 — — 9 — — 
Price risk on certain compensation plans 85 34 4 12 (2) 27 
Total $ 1,089 $ 705 $ (155)$ 14 $ (106)$ (138)
Net investment hedges
Foreign exchange risk $ (834)$ 22 $ 989 $ 4 $ 366 $ 411 
Amounts reclassified from accumulated OCI are recorded in interest income in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Amounts reclassified from accumulated OCI are recorded in compensation and benefits expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Amounts reclassifi ed from accumulated OCI are recorded in other income in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Amounts excluded from effectiveness testing and recognized in market making
and similar activities were gains (losses) of $( 11) million, $ 154 million and $ 47 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively .(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)  (1)
(2)
(2, 3, 4)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(1)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
Bank of America 114
Other Risk Management Derivatives
Other risk management derivatives are used by the Corporation
to reduce certain risk exposures by economically hedging
various assets and liabilities. The following table presents gains
(losses) on these deriva tives for 2020, 2019 and 2018. These
gains (losses) are largely offset by the income or expense
recorded on the hedged item.
Gains and Losses on Other Risk Management
Derivatives
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Interest rate risk on mortgage activities 
$ 446 $ 315 $ (107)
Credit risk on loans (68) (58) 9 
Interest rate and foreign currency risk on
ALM activities (2,971) 1,112 3,278 
Price risk on certain compensation plans
700 943 (495)
Primarily related to hedges of intere st rate risk on MSRs and IRLCs to originate mortgage
loans that will be held for sale. The net gains on IRLCs, which are not included in the table
but are considered derivative instrum ents, were $165 million, $73 million and $47 million in
2020, 2019 and 2018.
Gains (losses) on these derivatives are recorded in other income.
Gains (losses) on these derivatives are recorded in market making and similar activities.
Gains (losses) on these derivatives are recorded in compensation and benefits expense.
Transfers of Financial Assets with Risk Retained
through Derivatives
The Corporation enters into certain transactions involving the
transfer of financial assets that are accounted for as sales where
substantially all of the economic exposure to the transferred
financial assets is retained through derivatives (e.g., interest rate
and/or credit), but the Corporation does not retain control over
the assets transferred. At both December 31, 2020 and 2019,
the Corporation had transferred $5.2 billion of non-U.S.
government-guaranteed mortgage-backed securities to a third-
party trust and retained economic exposure to the transferred
assets throu gh derivativ e contracts. In connection with these
transfers, the Corporation received gross cash proceeds of $5.2
billion as of both transfer dates. At December 31, 2020 and
2019, the fair value of the transferred securities was $5.5 billion
and $ 5.3 billion.
Sales and Trading Revenue
The Corporation enters into trading derivatives to facilitate client
transactions and to manage risk exposures arising from trading
account assets and liabilities. It is the Corpora tion’s policy to
include these derivative instruments in its trading activities,
which includ e derivative s and non-derivative cash instruments.
The resulting risk from these derivatives is managed on a
portfolio basis as part of the Corporation’ s Global Markets
business segment. The related sales and trading revenue
generated within Global Markets  is recorded  in various income
statement line items, including market maki ng and similar
activities and net interest income as well as other revenue
categories.
Sales and trading revenue includes changes in the fair value
and realized gains and losses on the sales of trading and other
assets, net interest income, and fees primarily from
commissions on equity securities. Revenue is generated by the
difference in the client price for an instrument and the price at
which the trading desk can execute the trade in the dealer
market. For equity secur ities, commissions related to purchases
and sales are recorded in the “Other” column in the Sales and
Trading Revenue table. Changes in the fair value of these
securities are included in market making and similar activities.
For debt securities, revenue, with the exception of interest
associated with the debt securities, is typically included inmarket making and similar activities. Unlike commissions for
equity securities, the initial revenue related to broker-dealer
services for debt securities is typically included in the pricing of
the instrument rather than being charged through separate fee
arrangements. Therefor e, this revenue is recorded in market
making and similar activities as part of the initial mark to fair
value. For derivatives, the majority of revenue is included in
market making and similar activities. In transactions where the
Corporation acts as agent, which include exchange-traded
futures and options, fees are recorded in other income.
The following table, which includes both derivatives and non-
derivative cash instruments, identifies the amounts in the
respective income statement line items attributable to the
Corporation’ s sales and trading revenue in Global Markets ,
categorized by primary risk, for 2020, 2019 and 2018. This table
includes debit valuation adjustment (DVA) and funding valuation
adjustment (FVA) gains (losses). Global Markets  results in Note
23 – Business Segment Information  are presented on a fully
taxable-equivalent (FTE) basis. The table below is not presented
on an FTE basis.
Sales and Trading Revenue
Market
making and
similar
activitiesNet Interest
 Income Other Total
(Dollars in millions) 2020
Interest rate risk $ 2,211 $ 2,400 $ 231 $ 4,842 
Foreign exchange risk 1,482 (20) 3 1,465 
Equity risk 3,656 (77) 1,801 5,380 
Credit risk 812 1,638 328 2,778 
Other risk 308 4 44 356 
Total sales and
trading revenue$ 8,469 $ 3,945 $ 2,407 $ 14,821 
2019
Interest rate risk $ 1,000 $ 1,817 $ 113 $ 2,930 
Foreign exchange risk 1,288 62 57 1,407 
Equity risk 3,563 (634) 1,569 4,498 
Credit risk 1,091 1,807 519 3,417 
Other risk 120 70 53 243 
Total sales and
trading revenue$ 7,062 $ 3,122 $ 2,311 $ 12,495 
2018
Interest rate risk $ 810 $ 1,651 $ 245 $ 2,706 
Foreign exchange risk 1,504 31 22 1,557 
Equity risk 3,870 (657) 1,643 4,856 
Credit risk 1,034 1,886 600 3,520 
Other risk 40 197 49 286 
Total sales and
trading revenue$ 7,258 $ 3,108 $ 2,559 $ 12,925 
Represents amounts in investmen t and brokerage services and other income that are
recorded in Global Markets  and included in the definition of sales and trading revenue.
Includes investme nt and brokerage services revenue of $1.9 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.7
billion in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively .
Credit Derivatives
The Corpor ation enters into credit derivatives primarily to
facilitate client transactions and to manage credit risk
exposures. Credit derivatives derive value based on an
underlying third-party referenced obligation or a portfolio of
referenced obligations and generally require the Corporation, as
the seller of credit protec tion, to make payments to a buyer upon
the occurrence of a predefined credit event. Such credit events
generally include bankruptcy of the referenced credit entity and
failure to pay under the obligation, as well as acceleration of
indebtedness and payment repudiation or(1,
2)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(1)
115 Bank of America
moratorium. For credit derivatives based on a portfolio of
referenced credits or credit indices, the Corporation may not be
required to make payme nt until a specified amount of loss has
occurred and/or may only be required to make payment up to a
specified amount.
Credit deriv atives are classified as investmen t and non-
investment grade based  on the credit quality of the underlying
referenced obligation. The Corporation considers ratings of
BBB-or higher as investment  grade. Non-investment grade includes
non-rated credit derivative instruments. The Corporation
discloses internal categorizations of investment grade and non-
investment grade consis tent with how risk is managed for these
instruments.
Credit derivative instruments where the Corporation is the
seller of credit protection and their expiration at December 31,
2020 and 2019 are summarized in the following table.
Credit Derivative Instruments
Less than
 One YearOne to
 Three YearsThree to
 Five YearsOver Five
 Years Total
December 31, 2020
(Dollars in millions) Carrying Value
Credit default swaps:      
Investment grade $ — $ 1 $ 35 $ 94 $ 130 
Non-investment grade 26 233 364 1,163 1,786 
Total 26 234 399 1,257 1,916 
Total return swaps/options:      
Investment grade 21 4 — — 25 
Non-investment grade 345 — — — 345 
Total 366 4 — — 370 
Total credit derivatives $ 392 $ 238 $ 399 $ 1,257 $ 2,286 
Credit-related notes:      
Investment grade $ — $ — $ — $ 572 $ 572 
Non-investment grade 64 2 10 947 1,023 
Total credit-related notes $ 64 $ 2 $ 10 $ 1,519 $ 1,595 
 Maximum Payout/Notional
Credit default swaps:      
Investment grade $ 33,474 $ 75,731 $ 87,218 $ 16,822 $ 213,245 
Non-investment grade 13,664 28,770 35,978 9,852 88,264 
Total 47,138 104,501 123,196 26,674 301,509 
Total return swaps/options:      
Investment grade 30,961 1,061 77 — 32,099 
Non-investment grade 36,128 364 27 5 36,524 
Total 67,089 1,425 104 5 68,623 
Total credit derivatives $ 114,227 $ 105,926 $ 123,300 $ 26,679 $ 370,132 
December 31, 2019
Carrying Value
Credit default swaps:
Investment grade $ — $ 5 $ 60 $ 164 $ 229 
Non-investment grade 70 292 561 808 1,731 
Total 70 297 621 972 1,960 
Total return swaps/options:      
Investment grade 35 — — — 35 
Non-investment grade 344 — — — 344 
Total 379 — — — 379 
Total credit derivatives $ 449 $ 297 $ 621 $ 972 $ 2,339 
Credit-related notes:      
Investment grade $ — $ 3 $ 1 $ 639 $ 643 
Non-investment grade 6 2 1 1,125 1,134 
Total credit-related notes $ 6 $ 5 $ 2 $ 1,764 $ 1,777 
 Maximum Payout/Notional
Credit default swaps:
Investment grade $ 55,827 $ 67,838 $ 71,320 $ 17,708 $ 212,693 
Non-investment grade 19,049 26,521 29,618 12,337 87,525 
Total 74,876 94,359 100,938 30,045 300,218 
Total return swaps/options:      
Investment grade 56,488 — 62 76 56,626 
Non-investment grade 28,707 657 104 60 29,528 
Total 85,195 657 166 136 86,154 
Total credit derivatives $ 160,071 $ 95,016 $ 101,104 $ 30,181 $ 386,372 
The notional amount represents the maximum amount
payable by the Corporation for most credit derivatives. However ,
the Corporation does not monitor its exposure to credit
derivatives based solely on the notional amount because this
measure does not take into consideration the probability of
occurrence. As such, the notional amount is not a reliable
indicator of the Corporation’ s exposure to these contracts.
Instead, a risk framewo rk is used to define risk tolerances and
establish limits so that certain credit risk-related losses occurwithin acceptable, predefined limits.
Credit-related notes in the table above include investments in
securities issued by CDO, collateralized loan obligation (CLO)
and credit-linked note vehicles. These instruments are primarily
classified as trading securities. The carrying value of these
instruments equals the Corporation’ s maximu m exposure to
loss. The Corporation is not obligated to make any payments to
the entities under the terms of the securities owned.
Bank of America 116
Credit-related Contingent Features and Collateral
The Corporation executes the majority of its derivative contracts
in the OTC market with large, international financial institutions,
including broker-dealers and, to a lesser degree, with a variety
of non-finan cial companies. A significant majority of the
derivative transactions are executed on a daily margin basis.
Therefore, events such as a credit rating downgrade (depending
on the ultimate rating level) or a breach of credit covenants
would typica lly require an increase in the amount of collateral
required of the counterparty , where applicable, and/or allow the
Corporation to take additional protective measures such as early
termination of all trades. Further , as previously discussed on
page 112, the Corporation enters into legally enforceable master
netting agreements that reduce risk by permitting closeout and
netting of transactions with the same counterparty upon the
occurrence of certain events.
Certain of the Corpora tion’s derivative contracts contain
credit risk-related contingent features, primarily in the form of
ISDA master netting agreements and credit support
documentation that enhance the creditworth iness of these
instruments compared to other obligations of the respective
counterparty with whom the Corporation has transacted. These
contingent features may be for the benefit of the Corporation as
well as its counterparties with respect to changes in the
Corporation’ s creditworthiness and the mark-to-market exposure
under the derivative transactions. At December 31, 2020 and
2019, the Corporation held cash and securities collateral of
$96.5 billion and $84.3 billion and posted cash  and securities
collateral of $88.6 billion and $69.1 billion in the normal course
of business under derivative agreements, excluding cross-
product margining agreements where clients are permitted to
margin on a net basis for both derivative and secured financing
arrangements.
In connection with certain OTC derivative contracts and other
trading agreements, the Corporation can be required to provide
additional collateral or to terminate transactio ns with certain
counterparties in the event of a downgrade of the senior debt
ratings of the Corporation or certain subsidiaries . The amount of
additional collateral required depends on the contract and is
usually a fixed incremental amount and/or the market value of
the exposure.
At December 31, 2020, the amount of collateral, calculated
based on the terms of the contracts, that the Corporation and
certain subsidiaries could be required to post to counterparties
but had not yet posted to counterparties was $2.6 billion,
including $1.2 billion  for Bank of America, National Associatio n
(BANA).
Some counterparties are currently able to unilaterally
terminate certain contracts, or the Corpora tion or certain
subsidiaries may be required to take other action such as find a
suitable replacement or obtain a guarantee. At December 31,
2020 and 2019, the liability recorded for these derivative
contracts was not significant.
The following table presents the amount of additional
collateral that would have been contractually required by
derivative contracts and other trading agreements at
December 31, 2020 if the rating agencies had downgraded their
long-term senior debt ratings for the Corporation or certain
subsidiaries by one incremental notch and by an additional
second incremental notch.Additional Collateral Required to be Posted Upon
Downgrade at December 31, 2020
(Dollars in millions)One 
 incremental
notchSecond
 incremental
notch
Bank of America Corporation $ 300 $ 735 
Bank of America, N.A. and subsidiaries61 570 
Included in Bank of America Corporation collateral requirements in this table.
The followin g table presents the derivative liabilities that
would be subject to unilateral termination by counterparties and
the amounts of collateral that would have been contractually
required at December 31, 2020 if the long-te rm senior debt
ratings for the Corporation or certain subsidiaries had been
lower by one incremental notch and by an additional second
incremental notch.
Derivative Liabilities Subject to Unilateral
Termination Upon Downgrade at December 31, 2020
(Dollars in millions)One 
 incremental
notchSecond
 incremental
notch
Derivative liabilities $ 45 $ 1,035 
Collateral posted 23 544 
Valuation Adjustments on Derivatives
The Corporation records credit risk valuation adjustments on
derivatives in order to properly reflect the credit quality of the
counterparties and its own credit quality . The Corporation
calculates valuation adjustments on derivative s based on a
modeled expected expo sure that incorporates current market
risk factors. The exposure also takes into consideration credit
mitigants such as enforceable master netting agreements and
collateral. CDS spread data is used to estimate the default
probabilities and severities that are applied to the exposures.
Where no observable credit default data is available for
counterparties, the Corporation uses proxies and other market
data to estimate default probabilities and severity .
The table below presents credit valuation adjust ment (CVA),
DVA and FVA gains (losses) on derivatives (excluding the effect
of any related hedge activities), which are recorded in market
making and similar activities, for 2020, 2019 and 2018. CVA
gains reduce the cumulative CVA thereby increasing the
derivative assets balance. DVA gains increase the cumulative
DVA thereby decreasing the derivative liabilities balance. CVA
and DVA losses have the opposite impact. FVA gains related to
derivative assets reduce  the cumulative FVA thereby increasing
the derivative assets balance. FVA gains related to derivative
liabilities increase the cumulative FVA thereby  decreasing the
derivative liabilities balance. FVA losses have the opposite
impact.
Valuation Adjustments Gains (Losses) on Derivatives
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Derivative assets (CVA) $ (118)$ 72 $ 77 
Derivative assets/liabilities (FVA) (24) (2) (15)
Derivative liabilities (DVA) 24 (147) (19)
At December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, cumulative CVA reduced the derivative assets
balance by $646 million, $528 million and $600 million, cumulativ e FVA reduced the net
derivatives balanc e by $177 million, $153 million and $151 million, and cumulative DVA
reduced the derivative liabilities balance by $309 million, $285 million and $432 million,
respectively .(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
117 Bank of America
NOTE 4 Securities
The table below presen ts the amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses, and fair value  of AFS debt securities, other debt
securities carried at fair value and HTM debt securities at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Debt Securities
Amortized
 CostGross
 Unrealized
 GainsGross
 Unrealized
 LossesFair 
 Value
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2020
Available-for-sale debt securities
Mortgage-backed securities:
Agency $ 59,518 $ 2,370 $ (39)$ 61,849 
Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations 5,112 161 (13) 5,260 
Commercial 15,470 1,025 (4) 16,491 
Non-agency residential 899 127 (17) 1,009 
Total mortgage-backed securities 80,999 3,683 (73) 84,609 
U.S. Treasury and agency securities 114,157 2,236 (13) 116,380 
Non-U.S. securities 14,009 15 (7) 14,017 
Other taxable securities, substantially all asset-backed securities 2,656 61 (6) 2,711 
Total taxable securities 211,821 5,995 (99) 217,717 
Tax-exempt securities 16,417 389 (32) 16,774 
Total available-for-sale debt securities 228,238 6,384 (131) 234,491 
Other debt securities carried at fair value 11,720 429 (39) 12,110 
Total debt securities carried at fair value 239,958 6,813 (170) 246,601 
Held-to-maturity debt securities, substantially all U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities 438,279 10,095 (194) 448,180 
Total debt securities $678,237 $ 16,908 $ (364)$694,781 
December 31, 2019
Available-for-sale debt securities
Mortgage-backed securities:
Agency $121,698 $ 1,013 $ (183)$122,528 
Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations 4,587 78 (24) 4,641 
Commercial 14,797 249 (25) 15,021 
Non-agency residential 948 138 (9) 1,077 
Total mortgage-backed securities 142,030 1,478 (241) 143,267 
U.S. Treasury and agency securities 67,700 1,023 (195) 68,528 
Non-U.S. securities 11,987 6 (2) 11,991 
Other taxable securities, substantially all asset-backed securities 3,874 67 — 3,941 
Total taxable securities 225,591 2,574 (438) 227,727 
Tax-exempt securities 17,716 202 (6) 17,912 
Total available-for-sale debt securities 243,307 2,776 (444) 245,639 
Other debt securities carried at fair value 10,596 255 (23) 10,828 
Total debt securities carried at fair value 253,903 3,031 (467) 256,467 
Held-to-maturity debt securities, substantially all U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities 215,730 4,433 (342) 219,821 
Total debt securities $469,633 $ 7,464 $ (809)$476,288 
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the underlying collateral type included approximately 37 percent and 49 percent prime, two percent and six percent Alt-A and 61 percent and 45 percent
subprime.
Primarily includes non-U.S. securitie s used to satisfy certain internation al regulatory requirements. Any changes in value are reported in market making and similar activities. For detail on the
components, see Note 20 – Fair V alue Measurements .
Includes securities pledged as collateral of $ 65.5 billion and $ 67.0 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
The Corporation held debt securities from FNMA and FHLMC that each exceeded 10 percent of shareholders’ equity , with an amortized cost of $260.1  billion and $ 118.1  billion, and a fair value of
$267.5  billion and $ 120.7  billion at December 31, 2020, and an amortized cost of $ 157.2  billion and $ 54.1 billion, and a fair value of $ 160.6  billion and $ 55.1 billion at December 31, 2019.
At December 31, 2020, the accumulated net unrealized gain
on AFS debt securities, excluding the amount related to debt
securities previously transferred to held to maturity , included in
accumulated OCI was $4.7 billion, net of the related  income tax
expense of $ 1.6 billion. The Corporation had nonperforming AFS
debt securities of $20 million and $9 million at December 31,
2020 and 2019.
Effective January 1, 2020, the Corporation adopted the new
accounting standard for credit losses that requires evaluation of
AFS and HTM debt securities for any expec ted losses with
recognition of an allowance for credit losses, when applicable.
For more information, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant
Accounting Principles . At December 31, 2020, the Corporation
had $ 200.0  billion in AFS debt securities, which were primarilyU.S. agency  and U.S. Treasury securities that have a zero credit
loss assumption. For the remaining $34.5 billion in AFS debt
securities, the amount of ECL was insignificant. Substantially all
of the Corporation's HTM debt securities are U.S. agency and
U.S. Treasur y securities and have a zero credit loss assumption.
At Decembe r 31, 2020 and 2019, the Corporation held equity
securities at an aggregate fair value of $769 million and $891
million and other equity securities, as valued under the
measurement alternative , at a carrying value of $240 million and
$183 millio n, both of which are included in other assets. At
December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Corporation also held money
market inves tments at a fair value of $1.6 billion and $1.0 billion,
which are included in time deposits placed and other short-term
investments.(1)
(3)
(2)
 (3)
(3,4)
(1)
(2)
(3, 4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Bank of America 118
The gross realized gains and losses on sales of AFS debt securities for 2020, 2019 and 2018 are presented in the table below .
Gains and Losses on Sales of AFS Debt Securities
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Gross gains $ 423 $ 336 $ 169 
Gross losses (12) (119) (15)
Net gains on sales of AFS debt securities $ 411 $ 217 $ 154 
Income tax expense attributable to realized net gains on sales of AFS debt securities $ 103 $ 54 $ 37 
The table below presen ts the fair value and the associated gross unrealized losses on AFS debt securities and whether these
securities have had gross unrealized losses for less than 12 months or for 12 months or longer at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Total AFS Debt Securities in a Continuous Unrealized Loss Position
Less than Twelve Months Twelve Months or Longer Total
Fair 
 ValueGross
Unrealized
LossesFair 
 ValueGross
Unrealized
LossesFair 
 ValueGross
Unrealized
Losses
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2020
Continuously unrealized loss-positioned AFS debt securities
Mortgage-backed securities:    
Agency $ 2,841 $ (39)$ 2 $ — $ 2,843 $ (39)
Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations 187 (2) 364 (11) 551 (13)
Commercial 566 (4) 9 — 575 (4)
Non-agency residential 342 (9) 56 (8) 398 (17)
Total mortgage-backed securities 3,936 (54) 431 (19) 4,367 (73)
U.S. Treasury and agency securities 8,282 (9) 498 (4) 8,780 (13)
Non-U.S. securities 1,861 (6) 135 (1) 1,996 (7)
Other taxable securities, substantially all asset-backed securities 576 (2) 396 (4) 972 (6)
Total taxable securities 14,655 (71) 1,460 (28) 16,115 (99)
Tax-exempt securities 4,108 (29) 617 (3) 4,725 (32)
Total AFS debt securities in a continuous
 unrealized loss position $ 18,763 $ (100)$ 2,077 $ (31)$ 20,840 $ (131)
December 31, 2019
Continuously unrealized loss-positioned AFS debt securities
Mortgage-backed securities:
Agency $ 17,641 $ (41)$ 17,238 $ (142)$ 34,879 $ (183)
Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations 255 (1) 925 (23) 1,180 (24)
Commercial 2,180 (22) 442 (3) 2,622 (25)
Non-agency residential 122 (6) 22 (3) 144 (9)
Total mortgage-backed securities 20,198 (70) 18,627 (171) 38,825 (241)
U.S. Treasury and agency securities 12,836 (71) 18,866 (124) 31,702 (195)
Non-U.S. securities 851 — 837 (2) 1,688 (2)
Other taxable securities, substantially all asset-backed securities 938 — 222 — 1,160 — 
Total taxable securities 34,823 (141) 38,552 (297) 73,375 (438)
Tax-exempt securities 4,286 (5) 190 (1) 4,476 (6)
Total AFS debt securities in a continuous
 unrealized loss position $ 39,109 $ (146)$ 38,742 $ (298)$ 77,851 $ (444)
119 Bank of America
The remainin g contractual maturity distribution and yields of the Corporation’ s debt securities carried at fair value and HTM debt
securities at December 31, 2020 are summarize d in the table below . Actual duration and yields may differ as prepayments on the
loans underlying the mortgages or other ABS are passed through to the Corporation.
Maturities of Debt Securities Carried at Fair Value and Held-to-maturity Debt Securities
Due in One
 Year or LessDue after One Y ear
 through Five Y earsDue after Five Y ears
 through T en YearsDue after 
 Ten Years Total
(Dollars in millions) Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield 
Amortized cost of debt securities carried at fair
value           
Mortgage-backed securities:           
Agency $ — — % $ 7 5.69 % $ 56 4.44 % $59,455  3.36 % $59,518  3.36 %
Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations — — — — 24 2.57 5,088  2.94 5,112  2.94 
Commercial 26 3.04 6,669  2.52 7,711  2.32 1,077  2.64 15,483  2.43 
Non-agency residential — — — — 1 — 1,620  6.77 1,621  6.77 
Total mortgage-backed securities 26 3.04 6,676  2.52 7,792  2.34 67,240  3.40 81,734  3.23 
U.S. T reasury and agency securities 10,020  1.26 29,533  1.85 74,665  0.74 32 2.55 114,250  1.07 
Non-U.S. securities 22,862  0.31 926 1.81 581 1.09 532 1.79 24,901  0.42 
Other taxable securities, substantially all asset-
backed securities 699 1.15 1,336  2.46 366 2.26 255 1.60 2,656  2.00 
Total taxable securities 33,607  0.61 38,471  1.99 83,404  0.89 68,059  3.38 223,541  1.80 
Tax-exempt securities 872 0.87 8,430  1.27 4,397  1.66 2,718  1.41 16,417  1.38 
Total amortized cost of debt securities
carried at fair value $34,479  0.62 $46,901  1.86 $87,801  0.93 $70,777  3.30 $239,958  1.77 
Amortized cost of HTM debt securities $ 15 3.78 $ 66 2.73 $17,133  1.86 $421,065  2.40 $438,279  2.38 
Debt securities carried at fair value           
Mortgage-backed securities:           
Agency $ —  $ 7  $ 61  $61,781   $61,849   
Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations —  —  24  5,236   5,260   
Commercial 26  7,077   8,242   1,160   16,505   
Non-agency residential —  —  7  1,776   1,783   
Total mortgage-backed securities 26 7,084  8,334  69,953  85,397  
U.S. T reasury and agency securities 10,056  30,873  75,511  33 116,473  
Non-U.S. securities 23,187   940  582  534  25,243   
Other taxable securities, substantially all asset-
backed securities 702  1,369   379  264  2,714   
Total taxable securities 33,971   40,266   84,806   70,784   229,827   
Tax-exempt securities 874  8,554   4,566   2,780   16,774   
Total debt securities carried at fair
value $34,845   $48,820   $89,372   $73,564   $246,601   
Fair value of HTM debt securities $ 14 $ 69 $17,139  $430,958  $448,180  
The weighted-average yield is computed based on a constant effective interest rate over the contractual life of each security . The averag e yield considers the contractual coupon and the
amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts, excluding the ef fect of related hedging derivatives.
Substantially all U.S. agency MBS.(1) (1) (1) (1) (1)
 (2)
(2)
(1)
(2)
Bank of America 120
NOTE 5  Outstanding Loans and Leases and Allowance for Credit Losses
The followin g tables present total outstanding loans and leases and an aging analysis for the Consumer Real Estate, Credit Card
and Other Consumer , and Commercial portfolio segments, by class of financing receivables, at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
30-59 Days
Past Due 60-89 Days
Past Due 90 Days or
 More
Past Due Total Past
 Due 30 Days
 or MoreTotal Current
or Less Than
30 Days Past
Due Loans
Accounted for
Under the Fair
Value OptionTotal
 Outstandings
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2020
Consumer real estate       
Core portfolio
Residential mortgage $ 1,157 $ 175 $ 786 $ 2,118 $213,155 $ 215,273 
Home equity 126 61 269 456 29,872 30,328 
Non-core portfolio
Residential mortgage 273 122 913 1,308 6,974 8,282 
Home equity 28 17 76 121 3,862 3,983 
Credit card and other consumer
Credit card 445 341 903 1,689 77,019 78,708 
Direct/Indirect consumer 209 67 37 313 91,050 91,363 
Other consumer — — — — 124 124 
Total consumer 2,238 783 2,984 6,005 422,056 428,061 
Consumer loans accounted for under the fair
value option      $ 735 735 
Total consumer loans and leases 2,238 783 2,984 6,005 422,056 735 428,796 
Commercial
U.S. commercial 561 214 512 1,287 287,441 288,728 
Non-U.S. commercial 61 44 11 116 90,344 90,460 
Commercial real estate 128 113 226 467 59,897 60,364 
Commercial lease financing 86 20 57 163 16,935 17,098 
U.S. small business commercial 84 56 123 263 36,206 36,469 
Total commercial 920 447 929 2,296 490,823 493,119 
Commercial loans accounted for under the fair
value option      5,946 5,946 
Total commercial loans and leases 920 447 929 2,296 490,823 5,946 499,065 
Total loans and leases $ 3,158 $ 1,230 $ 3,913 $ 8,301 $912,879 $ 6,681 $ 927,861 
Percentage of outstandings 0.34 % 0.13 % 0.42 % 0.89 % 98.39 % 0.72 % 100.00 %
Consumer real estate loans 30-59 days past due includes fully-insured loans of $225 million and nonperforming loans of $126 million. Consume r real estate loans  60-89 days past due includes
fully-insured loans of $ 103 million and nonpe rforming loans of $95 million. Consumer real estate loans 90 days or more past due includes fully-insured loans of $762 million. Consumer real estate
loans current or less than 30 days past due includes $1.2 billion and direct/ indirect consumer  includes $66 million of nonperforming loans. For information on the Corporation's interest accrual
policies and delinquency status for loan modifications related to the pandemic, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles .
Total outstandings primarily includes auto and specialty lending loans and leases of $ 46.4 billion, U.S. securities-based lending loans of $ 41.1 billion and non-U.S. consumer loans of $ 3.0 billion.
Consumer loans accounted for unde r the fair value option includes residential mortgage loans of $298 million and home equity loans of $437 million. Commercial loans accounted for under the fair
value option includes U.S. commerc ial loans of $2.9 billion and non-U. S. commercial loans of $3.0 billion. For more information, see Note 20 – Fair Value Measurements  and Note 21 – Fair Value
Option .
Total outstandings includes U.S. commercial real estate loans of $ 57.2 billion and non-U.S. commercial real estate loans of $ 3.2 billion.
Includes PPP loans.
Total outstandings  includes loans and leases pledged as collateral of $15.5 billion. The Corpo ration also pledged $153.1  billion of loans with no related outstanding borrowings to secure potent ial
borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve Bank and Federal Home Loan Bank.(1) (1) (1) (1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(3)
(6)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
121 Bank of America
30-59 Days
 Past Due 60-89 Days
Past Due 90 Days or
 More
 Past Due Total Past
 Due 30 Days
 or MoreTotal
Current or
Less Than
30 Days
Past Due Loans
 Accounted 
 for Under
 the Fair 
 Value OptionTotal
Outstandings
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2019
Consumer real estate       
Core portfolio
Residential mortgage $ 1,378 $ 261 $ 565 $ 2,204 $223,566  $ 225,770 
Home equity 135 70 198 403 34,823  35,226 
Non-core portfolio        
Residential mortgage 458 209 1,263 1,930 8,469  10,399 
Home equity 34 16 72 122 4,860  4,982 
Credit card and other consumer        
Credit card 564 429 1,042 2,035 95,573  97,608 
Direct/Indirect consumer 297 85 35 417 90,581  90,998 
Other consumer — — — — 192  192 
Total consumer 2,866 1,070 3,175 7,111 458,064 465,175 
Consumer loans accounted for under the fair
value option $ 594 594 
Total consumer loans and leases 2,866 1,070 3,175 7,111 458,064 594 465,769 
Commercial        
U.S. commercial 788 279 371 1,438 305,610  307,048 
Non-U.S. commercial 35 23 8 66 104,900  104,966 
Commercial real estate 144 19 119 282 62,407  62,689 
Commercial lease financing 100 56 39 195 19,685  19,880 
U.S. small business commercial 119 56 107 282 15,051  15,333 
Total commercial 1,186 433 644 2,263 507,653  509,916 
Commercial loans accounted for under the fair
value option 7,741 7,741 
Total commercial loans and leases 1,186 433 644 2,263 507,653 7,741 517,657 
Total loans and leases $ 4,052 $ 1,503 $ 3,819 $ 9,374 $965,717 $ 8,335 $ 983,426 
Percentage of outstandings 0.41 % 0.15 % 0.39 % 0.95 % 98.20 % 0.85 % 100.00 %
Consumer real estate loans 30-59 days past due includes fully-insured loans of $517 million and nonperforming loans of $139 million. Consume r real estate loans  60-89 days past due includes
fully-insured loans of $ 206 million and nonpe rforming loans of $114 million. Consumer real estate loans 90 days or more past due includes fully-insured loans of $1.1 billion. Consumer real estate
loans current or less than 30 days past due includes $ 856 million and direct/indirect consumer includes $ 45 million of nonperforming loans.
Total outstandings primarily includes auto and specialty lending loans and leases of $ 50.4 billion, U.S. securities-based lending loans of $ 36.7 billion and non-U.S. consumer loans of $ 2.8 billion.
Consumer loans accounted for unde r the fair value option includes residential mortgage loans of $257 million and home equity loans of $337 million. Commercial loans accounted for under the fair
value option includes U.S. commerc ial loans of $4.7 billion and non-U. S. commercial loans of $3.1 billion. For more information, see Note 20 – Fair Value Measurements  and Note 21 – Fair Value
Option .
Total outstandings includes U.S. commercial real estate loans of $ 59.0 billion and non-U.S. commercial real estate loans of $ 3.7 billion.
Total outstandings  includes loans and leases pledged as collateral of $25.9 billion. The Corpo ration also pledged $168.2  billion of loans with no related outstanding borrowings to secure potent ial
borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve Bank and Federal Home Loan Bank.
The Corporation categorizes consumer real estate loans as
core and non-core based on loan and customer characteristics
such as origination date, product type, LTV, Fair Isaac
Corporation (FICO) score and delinquency status consistent with
its current consumer and mortgage servicing strategy. Generally ,
loans that were originated after January 1, 2010 , qualified under
government-sponsored enterprise (GSE) underwriting
guidelines, or otherwise met the Corporation’ s underwriting
guidelines in place in 2015 are characterized as core loans. All
other loans are generally characterized as non-core loans and
represent runof f portfolios.
The Corporation has entered into long-term credit protection
agreements with FNMA and FHLMC on loans totaling $9.0
billion and $7.5 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019,
providing full credit protection on residential mortgage loans that
become severely delinquent. All of these loans are individually
insured, and therefore the Corporation does not record an
allowance for credit losses related to these loans.Nonperforming Loans and Leases
Commercial nonperform ing loans increased to $2.2 billion at
December 31, 2020 from $1.5 billion at December 31, 2019 with
broad-based increases across multiple industries. Consumer
nonperforming loans increased to $2.7 billion at December 31,
2020 from $2.1 billion at December 31, 2019 driven by deferral
activity , as well as the inclusion of $144 million of certain loans
that were previously classified as purchased credit-impaired
loans and accounted for under a pool basis.
The table below presents the Corporation’ s nonperforming
loans and leases including nonperforming TDRs, and loans
accruing past due 90 days or more at December 31, 2020 and
2019. Nonp erforming LHFS are excluded from nonperforming
loans and leases as they are recorded at either fair value or the
lower of cost or fair value. For information on the Corporation's
interest accrual policies, delinquency status for loan
modifications related to the pandemic and the criteria for
classification as nonperforming, see Note 1 – Summary of
Significant Accounting Principles.(1) (1) (1) (1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(3)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
Bank of America 122
Credit Quality
Nonperforming Loans 
and LeasesAccruing Past Due
90 Days or More 
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2020 2019
Residential mortgage $ 2,005 $ 1,470 $ 762 $ 1,088 
With no related allowance 1,378 n/a — — 
Home equity 649 536 — — 
With no related allowance 347 n/a — — 
Credit Card n/a n/a 903 1,042 
Direct/indirect consumer 71 47 33 33 
Total consumer 2,725 2,053 1,698 2,163 
U.S. commercial 1,243 1,094 228 106 
Non-U.S. commercial 418 43 10 8 
Commercial real estate 404 280 6 19 
Commercial lease financing 87 32 25 20 
U.S. small business commercial 75 50 115 97 
Total commercial 2,227 1,499 384 250 
Total nonperforming loans $ 4,952 $ 3,552 $ 2,082 $ 2,413 
Percentage of outstanding loans and leases 0.54 % 0.36 % 0.23 % 0.25 %
For information on the Corporation's interest accrual policies and delinquency status for loan modifications related to the pandemic, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles .
Residential mortga ge loans accruing past due 90 days or more are fully-insured loans. At December 31, 2020 and 2019 residential mortgage includes $537 million and $740 million of loans on
which interest had been curtailed by the FHA, and therefore were no longer accruing interest, although principal was still insured, and $225 million and $348 million of loans on which interest was
still accruing.
Primarily relates to loans for which the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral less any costs to sell is greater than the amortized cost of the loans as of the reporting date.
n/a = not applicable
Included in the December 31, 2020 nonperforming loans are
$127 millio n and $17 million of residential mortgage and home
equity loans  that prior to the January 1, 2020 adoption of the
new credit loss standard were not included in nonperforming
loans, as they were previously classified as purchased credit-
impaired loans and accounted for under a pool basis.
Credit Quality Indicators
The Corporation monitors credit quality within its Consumer Real
Estate, Credit Card and Other Consumer , and Commercial
portfolio segments based on primary credit quality indicators.
For more information on the portfolio segments, see Note 1 –
Summary of Significant Accounting Principles . Within the
Consumer Real Estate portfolio segment, the primary credit
quality indicators are refreshed LTV and refreshed FICO score.
Refreshed LTV measures the carrying value of the loan as a
percentage of the value of the property securing the loan,
refreshed quarterly . Home equity loans are evaluated using
CLTV, which measures the carrying value of the Corporation’ s
loan and available line of credit combined with any outstanding
senior liens against the property as a percentag e of the value of
the property securing the loan, refreshed quarterly . FICO score
measures the creditworthiness of the borrower based on the
financial obligations of the borrower and the borrower ’s credit
history . FICO scores are typically refreshed quarterly or morefrequently . Certain borrowers (e.g., borrowers  that have had
debts discharged in a bankruptcy proceeding) may not have
their FICO scores upda ted. FICO scores are also a primary
credit quality  indicator for the Credit Card and Other Consumer
portfolio segment and the business card portfolio within U.S.
small business commercial. Within the Commercial portfolio
segment, loans are evaluated using the internal classifications of
pass rated or reservable criticized as the prima ry credit quality
indicators. The term reservable criticized refers to those
commercial loans that are internally classified or listed by the
Corporation as Special Mention, Substandard or Doubtful, which
are asset quality categories defined by regula tory authorities.
These assets have an elevated level of risk and may have a
high probability of defau lt or total loss. Pass rated refers to all
loans not considered reservable criticized. In addition to these
primary credit quality indicators, the Corpora tion uses other
credit quality indicators for certain types of loans.
The following tables present certain credit quality indicators
for the Corporation's Consumer Real Estate, Credit Card and
Other Consumer , and Commercial portfolio segments by class of
financing receivables and year of origination for term loan
balances at December 31, 2020, including revolving loans that
converted to term loans without an additional credit decision
after origination or through a TDR.(1)
 (2)
(3)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
123 Bank of America
Residential Mortgage – Credit Quality Indicators By Vintage
Term Loans by Origination Year
(Dollars in millions)Total as of
December 31,
2020 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Prior
Total Residential Mortgage
Refreshed LTV    
Less than or equal to 90 percent $ 207,389 $ 68,907 $ 43,771 $ 14,658 $ 21,589 $ 22,967 $ 35,497 
Greater than 90 percent but less than or equal to 100
percent 3,138 1,970 684 128 70 96 190 
Greater than 100 percent 1,210 702 174 47 39 37 211 
Fully-insured loans 11,818 3,826 2,014 370 342 1,970 3,296 
Total Residential Mortgage $ 223,555 $ 75,405 $ 46,643 $ 15,203 $ 22,040 $ 25,070 $ 39,194 
Total Residential Mortgage
Refreshed FICO score
Less than 620 $ 2,717 $ 823 $ 177 $ 139 $ 170 $ 150 $ 1,258 
Greater than or equal to 620 and less than 680 5,462 1,804 666 468 385 368 1,771 
Greater than or equal to 680 and less than 740 25,349 8,533 4,679 1,972 2,427 2,307 5,431 
Greater than or equal to 740 178,209 60,419 39,107 12,254 18,716 20,275 27,438 
Fully-insured loans 11,818 3,826 2,014 370 342 1,970 3,296 
Total Residential Mortgage $ 223,555 $ 75,405 $ 46,643 $ 15,203 $ 22,040 $ 25,070 $ 39,194 
Home Equity - Credit Quality Indicators
TotalHome Equity
Loans and
Reverse
Mortgages Revolving
LoansRevolving
Loans
Converted to
Term Loans
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2020
Total Home Equity
Refreshed LTV    
Less than or equal to 90 percent $ 33,447 $ 1,919 $ 22,639 $ 8,889 
Greater than 90 percent but less than or equal to 100 percent 351 126 94 131 
Greater than 100 percent 513 172 118 223 
Total Home Equity $ 34,311 $ 2,217 $ 22,851 $ 9,243 
Total Home Equity
Refreshed FICO score
Less than 620 $ 1,082 $ 250 $ 244 $ 588 
Greater than or equal to 620 and less than 680 1,798 263 568 967 
Greater than or equal to 680 and less than 740 5,762 556 2,905 2,301 
Greater than or equal to 740 25,669 1,148 19,134 5,387 
Total Home Equity $ 34,311 $ 2,217 $ 22,851 $ 9,243 
Includes reverse mortgages of $ 1.3 billion and home equity loans of $ 885 million which are no longer originated.
Credit Card and Direct/Indirect Consumer – Credit Quality Indicators By Vintage
Direct/Indirect
Term Loans by Origination Y ear Credit Card
(Dollars in millions)Total
Direct/Indirect
as of
December 31,
2020Revolving
Loans 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 PriorTotal Credit
Card as of
December 31,
2020Revolving
LoansRevolving
Loans
Converted
to Term
Loans 
Refreshed FICO score   
Less than 620 $ 959 $ 19 $ 111 $ 200 $ 175 $ 243 $ 148 $ 63 $ 4,018  $ 3,832  $ 186 
Greater than or equal to 620
and less than 680 2,143  20 653 559 329 301 176 105 9,419  9,201  218 
Greater than or equal to 680
and less than 740 7,431  80 2,848  2,015  1,033  739 400 316 27,585  27,392  193 
Greater than or equal to 740 36,064  120 12,540  10,588  5,869  3,495  1,781  1,671  37,686  37,642  44 
Other internal credit
   metrics 44,766  44,098  74 115 84 67 52 276 — — — 
Total credit card and
other 
 consumer $ 91,363  $44,337  $16,226  $13,477  $ 7,490  $ 4,845  $ 2,557  $ 2,431  $ 78,708  $78,067  $ 641 
Other internal credit metrics may include delinquency status, geography or other factors.
Direct/indirect consumer includes $44.1 billion of securitie s-based lending which is typically supported by highl y liquid collateral with market value greater than or equal to the outstanding loan
balance and therefore has minimal credit risk at December 31, 2020.
Represents TDRs that were modified into term loans.(1)
(1)
(3)
(1, 2)
(1)
(2)
(3)
Bank of America 124
Commercial – Credit Quality Indicators By Vintage 
Term Loans
Amortized Cost Basis by Origination Year
(Dollars in millions)Total as of
December 31,
2020 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 PriorRevolving
Loans
U.S. Commercial
Risk ratings     
Pass rated $ 268,812 $ 33,456 $ 33,305 $ 17,363 $ 14,102 $ 7,420 $ 21,784 $141,382 
Reservable criticized 19,916 2,524 2,542 2,689 854 698 1,402 9,207 
Total U.S. Commercial $ 288,728 $ 35,980 $ 35,847 $ 20,052 $ 14,956 $ 8,118 $ 23,186 $150,589 
Non-U.S. Commercial
Risk ratings
Pass rated $ 85,914 $ 16,301 $ 11,396 $ 7,451 $ 5,037 $ 1,674 $ 2,194 $ 41,861 
Reservable criticized 4,546 914 572 492 436 138 259 1,735 
Total Non-U.S. Commercial $ 90,460 $ 17,215 $ 11,968 $ 7,943 $ 5,473 $ 1,812 $ 2,453 $ 43,596 
Commercial Real Estate
Risk ratings
Pass rated $ 50,260 $ 8,429 $ 14,126 $ 8,228 $ 4,599 $ 3,299 $ 6,542 $ 5,037 
Reservable criticized 10,104 933 2,558 2,115 1,582 606 1,436 874 
Total Commercial Real Estate $ 60,364 $ 9,362 $ 16,684 $ 10,343 $ 6,181 $ 3,905 $ 7,978 $ 5,911 
Commercial Lease Financing
Risk ratings
Pass rated $ 16,384 $ 3,083 $ 3,242 $ 2,956 $ 2,532 $ 1,703 $ 2,868 $ — 
Reservable criticized 714 117 117 132 81 88 179 — 
Total Commercial Lease Financing $ 17,098 $ 3,200 $ 3,359 $ 3,088 $ 2,613 $ 1,791 $ 3,047 $ — 
U.S. Small Business Commercial 
Risk ratings
Pass rated $ 28,786 $ 24,539 $ 1,121 $ 837 $ 735 $ 527 $ 855 $ 172 
Reservable criticized 1,148 76 239 210 175 113 322 13 
Total U.S. Small Business Commercial$ 29,934 $ 24,615 $ 1,360 $ 1,047 $ 910 $ 640 $ 1,177 $ 185 
 Total $ 486,584 $ 90,372 $ 69,218 $ 42,473 $ 30,133 $ 16,266 $ 37,841 $200,281 
 Excludes $ 5.9 billion of loans accounted for under the fair value option at December 31, 2020.
     Includes $ 58 million of loans that converted from revolving to term loans.
     Exclu des U.S. Small Business Card loans of $6.5 billion. Refreshed FICO scores for this portfolio are $265 million for less than 620; $582 million for greater  than or equal to 620 and less than
680; $ 1.7 billion for greater than or equal to 680 and less than 740; and $ 3.9 billion greater than or equal to 740.
Due to the economic impact of COVID-19, commercial asset
quality weak ened during  2020. Commercial reservable criticized
utilized exposure increased to $38.7 billion at December 31,
2020 from $11.5 billion (to 7.31 percent from 2.09 percent of
total commercial reservable utilized exposure) at December 31,
2019 with increases spread across multiple industries, including
travel and entertainment.
Troubled Debt Restructurings
The Corporation has been entering into loan modifications with
borrowers in response to the pandemic, most of which are not
classified as TDRs, and therefore are not included in the
discussion below . For more information on the criteria for
classifying loans as TDRs, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant
Accounting Principles . 
Consumer Real Estate
Modifications of consumer real estate loans are classified as
TDRs when the borrower is experiencing financial dif ficulties and
a concessio n has been granted. Concessions may include
reductions in interest rates, capitalization of past due amounts,
principal and/or interest forbearance, payment extensions,
principal and/or interest  forgiveness, or combi nations thereof.
Prior to permanently modifying a loan, the Corporation may
enter into trial modifications with certain borrowers under both
government and proprietary programs. Trial modifications
generally represent a three- to four-month period during which
the borrower makes monthly payments under the anticipatedmodified payment terms. Upon successful completion of the trial
period, the Corporation and the borrower enter into a permanent
modification. Binding trial modifications are classified as TDRs
when the trial offer is made and continue to be classified as
TDRs regardless of whether the borrower enters into a
permanent modification.
Consumer real estate loans of $372 million that have been
discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy with no change in
repayment terms and not reaffirmed by the borrower were
included in TDRs at December 31, 2020, of which $102 million
were classif ied as nonperforming and $68 million were loans
fully insured.
Consumer real estate TDRs are measured primarily based
on the net present value of the estimated cash flows discounted
at the loan’ s original effective interest rate. If the carrying value
of a TDR exceeds this amount, a specific allowance is recorded
as a compo nent of the allowance for loan and lease losses.
Alternatively , consumer real estate TDRs that are considered to
be dependen t solely on the collateral for repaym ent (e.g., due to
the lack of income verification) are measured based on the
estimated fair value of the collateral, and a charge-of f is
recorded if the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the
collateral. Consumer real estate loans that reach 180 days past
due prior to modification  are charged off to their net realizable
value, less costs to sell, before they are modified as TDRs in
accordance with established policy . Subsequen t declines in the
fair value of the collateral after a loan has reached 180 days
past due are recorded as charge-of fs. Fully-insured loans are(1, 2)
(3)
(1, 2)
(1)
(2)
(3)
125 Bank of America
protected against principal loss, and therefore, the Corporation
does not record an allowance for loan and lease losses on the
outstanding principal balance, even after they have been
modified in a TDR.
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, remaining commitments to
lend additional funds to debtors whose terms have been
modified in a consumer real estate TDR were  not significant.
Consumer real estate foreclosed properties totaled $123 million
and $ 229 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019. The carrying
value of consumer real estate loans, includi ng fully-insured
loans, for which formal foreclosure proceedings were in process
at Decemb er 31, 2020 was $1.2 billion. Although the
Corporation has paused formal loan foreclosure proceedings
and foreclosure sales for occupied properties, during 2020, the
Corporation reclassified $ 182 million of consumer real estateloans completed or which were in process prior to the pause in
foreclosures, to foreclosed properties or, for properties acquired
upon foreclosure of certain government-gu aranteed loans
(principally FHA-insure d loans), to other  assets. The
reclassifications represent non-cash investing activities and,
accordingly , are not reflected in the Consolidated Statement of
Cash Flows.
The table below present s the December 31, 2020, 2019 and
2018 unpaid principal balance, carrying value, and average pre-
and post-modification interest rates of consumer real estate
loans that were modified in TDRs during 2020, 2019 and 2018.
The following Consumer Real Estate portfolio segment tables
include loans that were initially classified as TDRs during the
period and also loans that had previously been classified as
TDRs and were modified again during the period.
Consumer Real Estate – TDRs Entered into During 2020, 2019 and 2018 
Unpaid
Principal
BalanceCarrying 
 ValuePre-Modification
Interest RatePost-Modification
Interest Rate 
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2020
Residential mortgage $ 732 $ 646 3.66 % 3.59 %
Home equity 87 69 3.67 3.61 
Total $ 819 $ 715 3.66 3.59 
December 31, 2019
Residential mortgage $ 464 $ 377 4.19 % 4.13 %
Home equity 141 101 5.04 4.31 
Total $ 605 $ 478 4.39 4.17 
December 31, 2018
Residential mortgage $ 774 $ 641 4.33 % 4.21 %
Home equity 489 358 4.46 3.74 
Total $ 1,263 $ 999 4.38 4.03 
For more information on the Corporation's loan modification programs offered in response to the pandemic, most of which are not TDRs, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting
Principles.
The post-modification interest rate reflects the interest rate applicable only to permanently completed modifications, which exclude loans that are in a trial modification period.
The table below presents the December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 carrying value for consum er real estate loans that were
modified in a TDR during 2020, 2019 and 2018, by type of modification.
Consumer Real Estate – Modification Programs 
TDRs Entered into During
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Modifications under government programs $ 13 $ 35 $ 61 
Modifications under proprietary programs 570 174 523 
Loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy 53 68 130 
Trial modifications 79 201 285 
Total modifications $ 715 $ 478 $ 999 
For more information on the Corporation's loan modification programs offered in response to the pandemic, most of which are not TDRs, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting
Principles .
Includes loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy with no change in repayment terms that are classified as TDRs.
The table below present s the carrying value of consumer real estate loans that entered into payment default during 2020, 2019
and 2018 that were modified in a TDR during the 12 months preceding payment default. A payment default for consumer real estate
TDRs is recognized when a borrower has missed three  monthly payments (not necessarily consecutively) since modification.
Consumer Real Estate – TDRs Entering Payment Default that were Modified During the Preceding 12 Months 
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Modifications under government programs $ 16 $ 26 $ 39 
Modifications under proprietary programs 51 88 158 
Loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy 19 30 64 
Trial modifications 54 57 107 
Total modifications $ 140 $ 201 $ 368 
For more information on the Corporation's loan modification programs offered in response to the pandemic, most of which are not TDRs, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting
Principles .
Includes loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy with no change in repayment terms that are classified as TDRs.
Includes trial modification of fers to which the customer did not respond.(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
Bank of America 126
Credit Card and Other Consumer
The Corporation seeks to assist customers that are experiencing
financial difficulty by modifying loans while ensu ring compliance
with federal and local laws and guidelines. Credi t card and other
consumer loan modifications generally involv e reducing the
interest rate on the account, placing the customer on a fixed
payment plan not exceeding 60 months and canceling the
customer ’s available line of credit, all of which are considered
TDRs. The Corporation  makes loan modifications directly with
borrowers for debt held only by the Corporation (internal
programs). Additionall y, the Corporation makes loan
modifications for borrowers working with third-party renegotiationagencies that provide solutions to customers’ entire unsecured
debt structures (external programs). The Corporation classifies
other secured consumer loans that have been discharged in
Chapter 7 bankruptcy as TDRs, which are written down to
collateral value and placed on nonaccrual status no later than
the time of discharge.
The table below provides information on the Corporation’ s
Credit Card and Other Consumer TDR portfolio including the
December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 unpaid principal balance,
carrying value, and average pre- and post-modification interest
rates of loans that were modified in TDRs during 2020, 2019 and
2018.
Credit Card and Other Consumer – TDRs Entered into During 2020, 2019 and 2018 
 Unpaid
Principal
BalanceCarrying 
 Value Pre-Modification
Interest RatePost-Modification
Interest Rate
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2020
Credit card $ 269 $ 277 18.16 % 5.63 %
Direct/Indirect consumer 52 37 5.83 5.83 
Total $ 321 $ 314 16.70 5.65 
December 31, 2019
Credit card $ 340 $ 355 19.18 % 5.35 %
Direct/Indirect consumer 40 21 5.23 5.21 
Total $ 380 $ 376 18.42 5.34 
December 31, 2018
Credit card $ 278 $ 292 19.49 % 5.24 %
Direct/Indirect consumer 42 23 5.10 4.95 
Total $ 320 $ 315 18.45 5.22 
For more information on the Corporation's loan modification programs offered in response to the pandemic, most of which are not TDRs, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting
Principles.
Includes accrued interest and fees.
The table below present s the December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 carrying value for Credit Card and Other Consumer loans that
were modified in a TDR during 2020, 2019 and 2018, by program type.
Credit Card and Other Consumer – TDRs by Program Type at December 31 
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Internal programs $ 225 $ 247 $ 199 
External programs 73 108 93 
Other 16 21 23 
Total $ 314 $ 376 $ 315 
Includes accrued interest and fees. For more information on the Corpora tion's loan modification programs offered in response to the pandemic, most of which are not TDRs, see Note 1 – Summary
of Significant Accounting Principles.
Credit card and other consumer loans are deemed to be in
payment default during the quarter in which a borrower misses
the second of two consecutive payments. Payment defaults are
one of the factors considered when projecting future cash flows
in the calculation of the allowance for loan and lease losses for
credit card and other consumer . Based on historical experience,
the Corporation estimates that 13 percent of new credit card
TDRs and 19 percent of new direct/indirect consumer TDRs may
be in payment default within 12 months after modification.
Commercial Loans
Modifications of loans to commercial borrowers that are
experiencing financial difficulty are designed to reduce the
Corporation’ s loss exposure while providing the borrower with an
opportunity to work through financial difficulties, often to avoid
foreclosure or bankruptcy . Each modification is unique and
reflects the individua l circumstances of the borrower .
Modifications that result in a TDR may include extensions ofmaturity at a concessionary (below market) rate of interest,
payment forbearances or other actions designed to benefit the
borrower while mitigating the Corporation’ s risk exposure.
Reductions in interest rates are rare. Instead, the interest rates
are typically increased, although the increased rate may not
represent a market rate of interest. Infrequently , concessions
may also include principal forgiveness in connection with
foreclosure, short sale or other settlement agreements leading to
termination or sale of the loan.
At the time of restructu ring, the loans are remeasured to
reflect the impact, if any, on projected cash flows resulting from
the modified terms. If a portion of the loan is deemed to be
uncollectible, a charge-of f may be recorded at the time of
restructuring. Alternatively , a charge-of f may have already been
recorded in a previous period such that no charge-of f is required
at the time of modification. For more information on
modifications for the U.S. small business commercial portfolio,
see Credit Card and Other Consumer in this Note.
 (1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
(1)
(1)
127 Bank of America
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Corporat ion had $1.7
billion and $2.2 billion of commercial TDRs with remaining
commitments to lend additional funds to debtors of $402 million
and $445 million. The balance of commercial TDRs in payment
default was $ 218 million and $207 million at December 31, 2020
and 2019.
Loans Held-for-sale
The Corporation had LHFS of $9.2 billion at both December 31,
2020 and 2019. Cash and non-cash proceeds from sales and
paydowns of loans originally classified as LHFS were $20.1
billion, $30.6 billion and $29.2 billion for 2020, 2019 and 2018,
respectively . Cash used for originations and purchases of LHFS
totaled approximately $ 19.7 billion, $ 28.9 billion and $ 28.1 billion
for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively .
Accrued Interest Receivable
Accrued interest receiva ble for loans and leases and loans held-
for-sale at December 31, 2020 and 2019 was $2.4 billion and
$2.6 billion and is reported in customer and other receivables on
the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Outstanding credit card loan balances include unpaid
principal, interest and fees. Credit card loans are not classified
as nonperforming but are charged off no later than the end of
the month in which the account becomes 180 days past due,
within 60 days after receipt of notification of death or bankruptcy ,
or upon confirmation of fraud . During 2020, the Corporation
reversed $512 million of interest and fee income against the
income state ment line item in which it was originally recorded
upon charge-of f of the principal balance of the loan .
For the outstanding residential mortgage, home equity ,
direct/indirect consumer and commercial loan balances
classified as nonperforming during 2020, the Corporation
reversed $44 millio n of interest and fee income at the time the
loans were classified as nonperforming against the income
statement line item in which it was originally recorded. For more
information on the Corporation's nonperformin g loan policies,
see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles .
Allowance for Credit Losses
On January 1, 2020, the Corporation adopted the new
accounting standard that requires the measurement of the
allowance for credit losses to be based on management’ s best
estimate of lifetime ECL inherent in the Corporation’ s relevant
financial assets. Upon adoption of the new accounting standard,
the Corporation recorded a $3.3 billion, or 32 percent, increase
in the allowa nce for credit losses on January 1, 2020, which was
comprised of a net incre ase of $2.9 billion in the allowance for
loan and lease losses and a $310 million increase in the reserve
for unfunded lending commitments. The net increase in the
allowance for loan and lease losses was primarily driven by a
$3.1 billion increase in credit card as the Corporation now
reserves for the life of these receivables. The increase in the
reserve for unfunded lending commitments included $ 119 million
in the consumer portfolio for the undrawn portion of HELOCs
and $191 million in the commercial portfolio. For more
information on the Corporation's credit loss accounting policies
including the allowance for credit losses see Note 1 – Summary
of Significant Accounting Principles .
The allowance for credit losses is estim ated using
quantitative and qualitative methods that consider a variety of
factors, such as historical loss experience, the current creditquality of the portfolio and an economic outlook  over the life of
the loan. Qualitative reserves cover losses that are expected
but, in the Corporation's assessment, may not be adequately
reflected in the quantitative methods or the economic
assumptions. The Corporation incorporates forward-looking
information through the use of several macroeconomic
scenarios in determining the weighted economic outlook over
the forecast ed life of the assets. These scenarios include key
macroeconomic variabl es such as gross domestic product,
unemployment rate, real estate prices and corporate bond
spreads. The scenarios that are chosen each quarter and the
weighting given to each scenario depend on a variety of factors
including recent econom ic events, leading econ omic indicators,
internal and third-party economist views, and industry trends.
As of Janua ry 1, 2020, to determine the allowance for credit
losses, the Corporation used a series of economic outlooks that
resulted in an economic  outlook that was weighted towards the
potential of a recession with some expectation of tail risk similar
to the severely adverse scenario used in stress  testing. Various
economic outlooks were also used in the December 31, 2020
estimate for allowance for credit losses that included consensus
estimates, multiple downside scenarios which assumed a
significantly longer period until economic recovery , a tail risk
scenario similar to the severely adverse scenario used in stress
testing and an upside scenario to reflect the potential for
continued improvement in the consensus outlooks. The
weighted economic outlook assumes that the U.S.
unemployment rate at the end of 2021 would be relatively
consistent with the level as of December 2020, slightly above
6.5 percent. Additionally , in this economic outlook, U.S. gross
domestic product returns to pre-pandemic levels in the early part
of 2022. The allowance for credit losses considers the impact of
enacted government stimulus, including the COVID-19
Emergency Relief Act of 2020, and continues to factor in the
unprecedented nature of the current health crisis.
The Corporation also factored into its allowance for credit
losses an estimated impact from higher-risk segments that
included leveraged loans and industries such as travel and
entertainment, which have been adversely impacted by the
effects of COVID-19, as well as the energy sector . The
Corporation also holds additional reserves for borrowers who
requested deferrals that take into account their credit
characteristics and payment behavior subsequent to deferral.
The allowance for credit losses at December 31, 2020 was
$20.7 billion, an increase of $7.2 billion compared to January 1,
2020. The increase in the allowance for credit losses was driven
by the deter ioration in the economic outlook resulting from the
impact of COVID-19. The increase in the allowance for credit
losses was comprised of a net increase of $6.4 billion in the
allowance for loan and lease losses and a $755 million increase
in the reserve for unfunded lending commitments. The increase
in the allowance for loan and lease losses was attributed to $ 418
million in the consumer real estate portfolio, $1.8 billion in the
credit card and other consumer portfolio, and $4.2 billion in the
commercial portfolio.
Outstanding loans and leases excluding loans accounted for
under the fair value option decreased $53.9 billion in 2020,
driven by consumer loans, which decreased $37.1 billion
primarily due to a decline in credit card loans from reduced retail
spending and higher payments.
 
Bank of America 128
The changes  in the allowance for credit losses, including net charge-of fs and provision for loan and lease losses, are detailed in
the table below .
Consumer 
 Real EstateCredit Card and
 Other Consumer Commercial Total
(Dollars in millions) 2020
Allowance for loan and lease losses, January 1 $ 440 $ 7,430 $ 4,488 $ 12,358 
Loans and leases charged off (98) (3,646) (1,675) (5,419)
Recoveries of loans and leases previously charged off 201 891 206 1,298 
Net charge-offs 103 (2,755) (1,469) (4,121)
Provision for loan and lease losses 307 4,538 5,720 10,565 
Other 8 — (8) — 
Allowance for loan and lease losses, December 31 858 9,213 8,731 18,802 
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, January 1 119 — 1,004 1,123 
Provision for unfunded lending commitments 18 — 737 755 
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, December 31 137 — 1,741 1,878 
Allowance for credit losses, December 31 $ 995 $ 9,213 $ 10,472 $ 20,680 
2019
Allowance for loan and lease losses, January 1 $ 928 $ 3,874 $ 4,799 $ 9,601 
Loans and leases charged off (522) (4,302) (822) (5,646)
Recoveries of loans and leases previously charged off 927 911 160 1,998 
Net charge-offs 405 (3,391) (662) (3,648)
Provision for loan and lease losses (680) 3,512 742 3,574 
Other (107) 1 (5) (111)
Allowance for loan and lease losses, December 31 546 3,996 4,874 9,416 
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, January 1 — — 797 797 
Provision for unfunded lending commitments — — 16 16 
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, December 31 — — 813 813 
Allowance for credit losses, December 31 $ 546 $ 3,996 $ 5,687 $ 10,229 
2018
Allowance for loan and lease losses, January 1 $ 1,720 $ 3,663 $ 5,010 $ 10,393 
Loans and leases charged off (690) (4,037) (675) (5,402)
Recoveries of loans and leases previously charged off 664 823 152 1,639 
Net charge-offs (26) (3,214) (523) (3,763)
Provision for loan and lease losses (492) 3,441 313 3,262 
Other (274) (16) (1) (291)
Allowance for loan and lease losses, December 31 928 3,874 4,799 9,601 
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, January 1 — — 777 777 
Provision for unfunded lending commitments — — 20 20 
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, December 31 — — 797 797 
Allowance for credit losses, December 31 $ 928 $ 3,874 $ 5,596 $ 10,398 
Primarily represents write-of fs of purchased credit-impaired loans in 2019, and the net impact of portfolio sales, transfers to held-for-sale and transfers to foreclosed properties.
NOTE 6  Securitizations and Other V ariable
Interest Entities
The Corporation utilizes VIEs in the ordinary course of business
to support its own and its customers’ financin g and investing
needs. The Corporation  routinely securitizes loans and debt
securities using VIEs as a source of funding for the Corporation
and as a means of transferring the economic risk of the loans or
debt securiti es to third parties. The assets are transferred into a
trust or other securitization vehicle such that the assets are
legally isolated from the creditors of the Corporation and are not
available to satisfy its obligations. These assets can only be
used to settle obligations of the trust or other securitization
vehicle. The Corporation also administers, structures or invests
in other VIEs including CDOs, investment vehicles and other
entities. For more inform ation on the Corporation’ s use of VIEs,
see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles.
The tables in this Note present the assets and liabilities of
consolidated and unconsolidated VIEs at Dece mber 31, 2020
and 2019 in situations where the Corporation has continuing
involvement with transferred assets or if the Corporation
otherwise has a variable interest in the VIE. The tables alsopresent the Corporation’ s maximum loss exposu re at December
31, 2020 and 2019 resulting from its involvement with
consolidated VIEs and unconsolidated VIEs in which the
Corporation holds a variable interest. The Corporation’ s
maximum loss exposure is based on the unlikely event that all of
the assets in the VIEs become worthless and incorporates not
only potential losses associated with assets recorded on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet but also potential losses associated
with off-balance sheet commitments, such as unfunded liquidity
commitments and other contractual arrangements. The
Corporation’ s maximum loss exposure does not include losses
previously recognized through write-downs of assets.
The Corporation invests in ABS issued by third-party VIEs
with which it has no other form of involvement and enters into
certain commercial lending arrangements that may also
incorporate the use of VIEs, for example to hold collateral.
These securities and loans are included in Note 4 – Securities  or
Note 5 – Outstanding Loans and Leases and Allowance for
Credit Losses. In addition, the Corporation has used VIEs in
connection with its funding activities.
 (1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
129 Bank of America
The Corporation did not provide financial support to
consolidated or unconsolidated VIEs during 2020, 2019 and
2018 that it was not previously contractually required to provide,
nor does it intend to do so.
The Corporation had liquidity commitments, including written
put options and collateral value guarantees, with certain
unconsolidated VIEs of $929 million and $1.1 billion at
December 31, 2020 and 2019.
First-lien Mortgage Securitizations
As part of its mortgage banking activities, the Corporation
securitizes a portion of the first-lien residential mortgage loans it
originates or purchases from third parties, generally in the form
of residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) guaranteed
by government-sponso red enterprises, FNMA and FHLMC
(collectively the GSEs), or the Government National Mortgage
Association (GNMA) primarily in the case of FHA-insured and U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)-
guaranteed mortgage loans. Securitization usually occurs in
conjunction with or shortly after origination or purchase, and the
Corporation may also securitize loans held in its residential
mortgage portfolio. In addition, the Corporation may , from time to
time, securit ize commerc ial mortgages it originates or purchases
from other entities. The Corporation typically services the loans
it securitizes. Further , the Corporation may retain beneficial
interests in the securitization trusts including senior and
subordinate securities and equity tranches issued by the trusts.
Except as described in Note 12 – Commitments and
Contingencies , the Corporation does not provide guarantees or
recourse to the securitization trusts other than standard
representations and warranties.
The table below summarizes select informatio n related to
first-lien mortgage securitizations for 2020, 2019 and 2018.
First-lien Mortgage Securitizations
 
Residential Mortgage - Agency Commercial Mortgage
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Proceeds from loan sales $ 15,823 $ 6,858 $ 5,801 $ 5,084 $ 8,661 $ 6,991 
Gains on securitizations 728 27 62 61 103 101 
Repurchases from securitization trusts 436 881 1,485 — — — 
The Corporation transfers residential mortgage loans to securitizations sponsored primarily by the GSEs or GNMA in the normal course of business and primarily receives RMBS in exchange.
Substantially all of these securities are classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy and are typically sold shortly after receipt.
A majorit y of the first-lien residential mortgage loans securitized are initially classified as LHFS and accounted for under the fair value option. Gains recognized on these LHFS prior to
securitization, which totaled $ 160 million, $ 64 million and $ 71 million net of hedges, during 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively , are not included in the table above.
The Corp oration may have the option to repurchase delinquent loans out of securitization trusts, which reduces the amount of servicing advance s it is required to make. The Corporation may also
repurchase loans from securitization trusts to perform modifications. Repurchased loans include FHA-insured mortgages collateralizing GNMA securities.
The Corpora tion recogn izes consumer MSRs from the sale
or securitization of consumer real estate loans. The unpaid
principal balance of loans serviced for investors, including
residential mortgage and home equity loans, totaled $160.4
billion and $192.1  billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Servicing fee and ancill ary fee income on serviced loans was
$474 million, $585 million and $710 million during 2020, 2019
and 2018, respectively . Servicing advances on serviced loans,
including loans serviced for others and loans held for
investment, were $2.2 billion and $2.4 billion at December 31,
2020 and 2019. For more information on MSRs, see Note 20 –
Fair V alue Measurements .During 2020, the Corporation completed the sale of $9.3
billion of consumer real estate loans through GNMA loan
securitizations. As part of the securitizations, the Corporation
retained $8.4 billion of MBS, which are classified as debt
securities carried at fair value on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet. T otal gains on loan sales of $ 704 million were recorded in
other income in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
The following table summarizes select information related to
first-lien mortgage securitization trusts in which the Corporation
held a variable interest at December 31, 2020 and 2019.(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
Bank of America 130
First-lien Mortgage VIEs
Residential Mortgage   
   Non-agency   
 Agency Prime Subprime Alt-A Commercial Mortgage
 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
Unconsolidated VIEs           
Maximum loss exposure $ 13,477  $ 12,554  $ 250 $ 340 $ 1,031  $ 1,622  $ 46 $ 98 $ 1,169  $ 1,036  
On-balance sheet assets           
Senior securities:           
Trading account assets $ 152 $ 627 $ 2 $ 5 $ 8 $ 54 $ 12 $ 24 $ 60 $ 65 
Debt securities carried at fair
value 7,588  6,392  103 193 676 1,178  33 72 — — 
Held-to-maturity securities 5,737  5,535  — — — — — — 925 809 
All other assets — — 6 2 26 49 1 2 50 38 
Total retained positions $ 13,477  $ 12,554  $ 111 $ 200 $ 710 $ 1,281  $ 46 $ 98 $ 1,035  $ 912 
Principal balance outstanding $ 133,497  $ 160,226  $ 6,081  $ 7,268  $ 6,691  $ 8,594  $ 16,554  $ 19,878  $ 59,268  $ 60,129  
Consolidated VIEs           
Maximum loss exposure $ 1,328  $ 10,857  $ 66 $ 5 $ 53 $ 44 $ — $ — $ — $ — 
On-balance sheet assets           
Trading account assets $ 1,328  $ 780 $ 350 $ 116 $ 260 $ 149 $ — $ — $ — $ — 
Loans and leases, net — 9,917  — — — — — — — — 
All other assets — 161 — — — — — — — — 
Total assets $ 1,328  $ 10,858  $ 350 $ 116 $ 260 $ 149 $ — $ — $ — $ — 
Total liabilities $ — $ 4 $ 284 $ 111 $ 207 $ 105 $ — $ — $ — $ — 
Maximum loss exposure includes obligations under loss-sharing reinsur ance and other arrangements for non-agency residential mortgage and commercial mortgage securitizations, but excludes
the reserve for representations and warranties obligations and corporate guarantees and also excludes servicing advances and other servicing rights and obligations. For more information, see
Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies  and Note 20 – Fair V alue Measurements .
Principal balance outstanding includes loans where the Corporation was the transferor to securitization VIEs with which it has continuing involvement, which may include servicing the loans.
Other Asset-backed Securitizations
The following table summarizes select information related to home equity , credit card and other asset-backed VIEs in which the
Corporation held a variable interest at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Home Equity Loan, Credit Card and Other Asset-backed VIEs
 Home Equity Credit Card Resecuritization T rusts Municipal Bond T rusts
 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
Unconsolidated VIEs       
Maximum loss exposure $ 206 $ 412 $ — $ — $ 8,543  $ 7,526  $ 3,507  $ 3,701  
On-balance sheet assets       
Securities :       
Trading account assets $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 948 $ 2,188  $ — $ — 
Debt securities carried at fair value 2 11 — — 2,727  1,126  — — 
Held-to-maturity securities — — — — 4,868  4,212  — — 
Total retained positions $ 2 $ 11 $ — $ — $ 8,543  $ 7,526  $ — $ — 
Total assets of VIEs $ 609 $ 1,023  $ — $ — $ 17,250  $ 21,234  $ 4,042  $ 4,395  
Consolidated VIEs       
Maximum loss exposure $ 58 $ 64 $ 14,606  $ 17,915  $ 217 $ 54 $ 1,030  $ 2,656  
On-balance sheet assets       
Trading account assets $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 217 $ 73 $ 990 $ 2,480  
Loans and leases 218 122 21,310  26,985  — — — — 
Allowance for loan and lease losses 14 (2) (1,704 ) (800) — — — — 
All other assets 4 3 1,289  119 — — 40 176 
Total assets $ 236 $ 123 $ 20,895  $ 26,304  $ 217 $ 73 $ 1,030  $ 2,656  
On-balance sheet liabilities       
Short-term borrowings $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 432 $ 2,175  
Long-term debt 178 64 6,273  8,372  — 19 — — 
All other liabilities — — 16 17 — — — — 
Total liabilities $ 178 $ 64 $ 6,289  $ 8,389  $ — $ 19 $ 432 $ 2,175  
For unconsolidated  home equity loan VIEs, the maximum loss exposure includes outstanding trust certificates issued by trusts in rapid amortization, net of recorded reserves. For both consolidated
and unconsolidate d home equity loan VIEs, the maximum loss exposure  excludes the reserve for representations and warranties obligations and corporate guarantees. For more information, see
Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies .
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, loans and leases in the consolidated credit card trust included $ 7.6 billion and $ 10.5 billion of seller ’s interest.
The retained senior securities were valued using quoted market prices or observable market inputs (Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy).
Home Equity Loans
The Corporation retains interests, primarily senior securities, in
home equity securitization trusts to which it transferred home
equity loans. In addition, the Corporation may be obligated toprovide subordinate funding to the trusts during a rapid
amortization event. This obligation is included in the maximum
loss exposure in the table above. The charges that will ultimately
be recorded as a result of the rapid amortization(1)
(2)
(1)
(1)
(2)
(1) (2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
131BankofAmerica
131 Bank of America
events depend on the undrawn portion of the HELOCs,
performance of the loans, the amount of subsequent draws and
the timing of related cash flows.
Credit Card Securitizations
The Corporation securitizes originated and purchased credit
card loans. The Corpor ation’ s continuing involvement with the
securitization trust includes servicing the receivables, retaining
an undivided interest (seller ’s interest) in the receivables, and
holding certa in retained interests including subordinate interests
in accrued interest and fees on the securitized receivables and
cash reserve accounts.
During 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Corporation issued new
senior debt securities to third-party investors from the credit card
securitization trust of $1.0 billion, $1.3 billion and $4.0 billion,
respectively .
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Corporation held
subordinate securities issued by the credit card securitization
trust with a notional principal amount of $6.8 billion and $7.4
billion. These securities serve as a form of credit enhancement
to the senior debt secur ities and have a stated interest rate of
zero percent. During 2020,  2019 and 2018, the credit card
securitization trust issued $161 million, $202 million and $650
million, respectively , of these subordinate securities.
Resecuritization Trusts
The Corporation transfers securities, typically MBS, into
resecuritization VIEs generally at the request of customers
seeking securities with specific characteristics. Generally , there
are no significant ongoing activities performed in a
resecuritization trust, and no single investor has the unilateral
ability to liquidate the trust.
The Corporation resecuritized $39.0 billion, $24.4 billion and
$22.8 billion of securities during 2020, 2019 and 2018,
respectively . Securities transferred into resecuritization VIEs
were measured at fair value with changes in fair value recordedin market making and similar activities prior to the
resecuritization and, accordingly , no gain or loss on sale was
recorded. Securities received from the resecuritization VIEs
were recogn ized at their fair value of $6.1 billion, $ 5.2 billion and
$4.1 billion during 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively . In 2019
and 2018, substantially all of the securities were classified as
trading account assets. All of the securities received as
resecuritization proceed s during 2020 were classified as trading
account assets. Of the securities received as resecuritizations
proceeds during 2020, $2.4 billion, $2.1 billion and $1.7 billion
were classified as trading account assets, debt securities carried
at fair value and HTM securities, respectively . Substantially all of
the trading account secu rities and debt securities carried at fair
value were categorized as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy .
Municipal Bond Trusts
The Corporation administers municipal bond trusts that hold
highly-rated, long-term, fixed-rate municipal bonds. The trusts
obtain financing by issuing floating-rate trust certificates that
reprice on a weekly or other short-term basis to third-party
investors.
The Corporation’ s liquidity commitments to unconsolidated
municipal bond trusts, including those for which the Corporation
was transfe ror, totale d $3.5 billion and $3.7 billion at
December 31, 2020 and 2019. The weighted-average remaining
life of bonds held in the trusts at December 31, 2020 was 6.8
years. There were no significant write-downs or downgrades of
assets or issuers during 2020, 2019 and 2018.
Other Variable Interest Entities
The table below summarizes select information related to other
VIEs in which the Corporation held a varia ble interest at
December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Other VIEs
Consolidated Unconsolidated Total Consolidated Unconsolidated Total
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Maximum loss exposure $ 4,106 $ 23,870 $ 27,976 $ 4,055 $ 21,069 $ 25,124 
On-balance sheet assets       
Trading account assets $ 2,080 $ 623 $ 2,703 $ 2,213 $ 549 $ 2,762 
Debt securities carried at fair value — 9 9 — 10 10 
Loans and leases 2,108 184 2,292 1,810 533 2,343 
Allowance for loan and lease losses (3) (3) (6) (2) — (2)
All other assets 54 22,553 22,607 81 19,354 19,435 
Total $ 4,239 $ 23,366 $ 27,605 $ 4,102 $ 20,446 $ 24,548 
On-balance sheet liabilities       
Short-term borrowings $ 22 $ — $ 22 $ — $ — $ — 
Long-term debt 111 — 111 46 — 46 
All other liabilities — 5,658 5,658 2 4,896 4,898 
Total $ 133 $ 5,658 $ 5,791 $ 48 $ 4,896 $ 4,944 
Total assets of VIEs $ 4,239 $ 77,984 $ 82,223 $ 4,102 $ 70,120 $ 74,222 
Prior-period amounts have been revised to remove certain entities that are no longer considered VIEs.
Customer VIEs
Customer VIEs include credit-linked, equity-linked and
commodity-linked note VIEs, repackaging VIEs and asset
acquisition VIEs, which are typically created on behalf of
customers who wish to obtain market or credi t exposure to a
specific company , index, commodity or financial instrument.
The Corpora tion’s maxi mum loss exposure to consolidated
and unconsolidated customer VIEs totaled $2.3 billion and $2.2
billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019, including the notional
amount of derivatives to which the Corporation is a counterparty ,
net of losses previously recorded, and theCorporation’ s investment, if any , in securities issued by the VIEs.
Collateralized Debt Obligation VIEs
The Corporation receives fees for structuring CDO VIEs, which
hold diversified pools of fixed-income securities, typically
corporate debt or ABS, which the CDO VIEs fund by issuing
multiple tranches of debt and equity securities. CDOs are
generally managed by third-party portfolio managers. The
Corporation typically transfers assets to these CDOs, holds
securities issued by the CDOs and may be a derivative(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
BankofAmerica132
Bank of America 132
counterparty to the CDOs. The Corporation’ s maximum loss
exposure to consolidated and unconsolidated CDOs totaled
$298 million and $ 304 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Investment VIEs
The Corporation sponsors, invests in or provides financing,
which may be in connection with the sale of assets, to a variety
of investment VIEs that hold loans, real estate, debt securities or
other financial instruments and are designed to provide the
desired investment profile to investors or the Corporation. At
December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Corporation ’s consolidated
investment VIEs had total assets of $494 million and $104
million. The Corporation also held investments in unconsolidated
VIEs with total assets  of $5.4 billion and $5.1 billion at
December 31, 2020 and 2019. The Corporation’ s maximum loss
exposure associated with both consolidated and unconsolidated
investment VIEs totaled $1.5 billion and $1.6 billion at
December 31, 2020 and 2019 comprised primarily of on-balance
sheet assets less non-recourse liabilities.
Leveraged Lease Trusts
The Corporation’ s net investment in consolidated leveraged
lease trusts totaled $1.7 billion at both December 31, 2020 and
2019. The trusts hold long-lived equipment such as rail cars,
power generation and distribution equipment, and commercial
aircraft. The Corporation structures the trusts and holds a
significant residual interest. The net investment represents the
Corporation’ s maximum loss exposure to the trusts in the
unlikely event that the leveraged lease investments become
worthless. Debt issued by the leveraged lease trusts is non-
recourse to the Corporation.
Tax Credit VIEs
The Corpor ation holds investments in unconsolidated limited
partnerships and similar entities that construct, own and operate
affordable housing, wind and solar projects. An unrelated third
party is typically the general partner or managi ng member and
has control over the significant activities of the VIE. The
Corporation earns a return primarily through the receipt of tax
credits allocated to the projects. The maximum loss exposure
included in the Other VIEs table was $22.0 billion and $18.9
billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019. The Corporation’ s risk of
loss is generally mitigated by policies requiring that the project
qualify for the expected tax credits prior to making its
investment.
The Corporation’ s investments in affordab le housing
partnerships, which are reported in other assets on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet, totaled $11.2 billion and $10.0
billion, including unfunded commitments to provide capital
contributions of $5.0 billion and $4.3 billion at December 31,
2020 and 2019. The unfunded commitments are expected to be
paid over the next five years . During 2020, 2019 and 2018, the
Corporation recognized tax credits and other taxbenefits from investments in affordable housing partnerships of
$1.2 billion, $1.0 billion and $981 million and reported pretax
losses in other income of $1.0 billion, $882 million and $798
million, respectively . Tax credits are recognized  as part of the
Corporation’ s annual effective tax rate used to determine tax
expense in a given quarter. Accordingly , the portion of a year’s
expected tax benefits recognized in any given quarter may differ
from 25 percent. The Corporat ion may from time to time be
asked to invest additional amounts to support a troubled
affordable housing project. Such additional investments have not
been and are not expected to be significant.
NOTE 7 Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Goodwill
The table below presents goodwill balance s by business
segment and All Other  at December 31, 2020  and 2019. The
reporting units utilized for goodwill impairment testing are the
operating segments or one level below .
Goodwill
December 31
(Dollars in millions)December 31
 2020December 31
 2019
Consumer Banking $ 30,123 $ 30,123 
Global Wealth & Investment Management 9,677 9,677 
Global Banking 23,923 23,923 
Global Markets 5,182 5,182 
All Other 46 46 
Total goodwill $ 68,951 $ 68,951 
During 2020, the Corporation completed its annual goodwill
impairment test as of June 30, 2020 using a quantitative
assessment for all applicable reporting units. Based on the
results of the annual goodwill impairment test, the Corporation
determined there was no impairment . For more information on
the use of quantitative assessments, see Note 1 – Summary of
Significant Accounting Principles.
Intangible Assets
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the net carrying value of
intangible assets was $2.2 billion and $1.7 billion. During 2020,
the Corporation recognized a $585 millio n intangible asse t,
which is being amortized over a 10-year life, related to the
merchant contracts that were distributed to the Corporation from
its merchant servicing joint venture. For more information, see
Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies .
At both December 31, 2020 and 2019, intangible assets
included $1.6 billion of intangible assets associated with trade
names, substantially all of which had an indefinite life and,
accordingly , are not being amortized. Amortizatio n of intangibles
expense was $ 95 million, $ 112 million and $ 538 million for 2020,
2019 and 2018.
133 Bank of America
NOTE 8 Leases
The Corporation enters into both lesso r and lessee
arrangements. For more information on lease accounting, see
Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  and on
lease financing receivables, see Note 5 – Outstanding Loans
and Leases and Allowance for Credit Losses .
Lessor Arrangements
The Corporation’ s lessor arrangements primarily consist of
operating, sales-type and direct financing leases for equipment.
Lease agreements may include options to renew and for the
lessee to purchase the leased equipment at the end of the lease
term.
The following table presents the net investment in sales-type
and direct financing leases at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Net Investment 
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Lease receivables $ 17,627 $ 19,312 
Unguaranteed residuals 2,303 2,550 
   Total net investment in sales-type and direct
 financing leases $ 19,930 $ 21,862 
 In certain cases, the Corporation obtains third-party residual value insurance to reduce its
residual asset risk. The carrying value of residual assets with third-party residual value
insurance for at least a portion of the asset value was $6.9 billion and $5.8 billion at
December 31, 2020 and 2019.
The following table presents lease income at December 31,
2020 and 2019.
Lease Income
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Sales-type and direct financing leases $ 707 $ 797 
Operating leases 931 891 
   Total lease income $ 1,638 $ 1,688 
Lessee Arrangements
The Corporation's lessee arrangements predominantly consist of
operating leases for premises and equipment; the Corporation's
financing leases are not significant.
Lease terms may contain renewal and extension options and
early termin ation features. Generally , these options do not
impact the lease term because the Corporation is not reasonably
certain that it will exercise the options.
The followin g table provides information on the right-of-use
assets, lease  liabilities and weighted-average discount rates and
lease terms at December 31, 2020 and 2019.Lessee Arrangements
December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Right-of-use asset $ 10,000 $ 9,735 
Lease liabilities 10,474 10,093 
Weighted-average discount rate used to
calculate present value of future
minimum lease payments 3.38 % 3.68 %
Weighted-average lease term (in years) 8.4 8.2
Lease Cost and Supplemental
Information:
Operating lease cost $ 2,149 $ 2,085 
Variable lease cost 474 498 
   Total lease cost $ 2,623 $ 2,583 
Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange
for
new operating lease liabilities $ 851 $ 931 
Operating cash flows from operating
    leases 2,039 2,009 
Primarily consists of payments for common area maintenance and property taxes.
Amounts are recorded in occupancy  and equipment expense in the Consolidated Statement
of Income.
Represents non-ca sh activity and, accordingly , is not reflected in the Consolidated Statement
of Cash Flows.
Represents cash paid for amounts included in the measurements of lease liabilities.
Maturity Analysis
The maturities of lessor and lessee arrangements outstanding at
December 31, 2020 are presented in the table below based on
undiscounted cash flows.
Maturities of Lessor and Lessee Arrangements
Lessor Lessee 
Operating 
 LeasesSales-type and
Direct Financing
Leases Operating 
 Leases
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2020
2021 $ 843 $ 5,424 $ 1,927 
2022 748 4,934 1,715 
2023 630 3,637 1,454 
2024 479 2,089 1,308 
2025 339 1,143 1,087 
Thereafter 886 1,668 4,609 
Total undiscounted
cash flows $ 3,925 18,895 12,100 
Less: Net present
value adjustment 1,268 1,626 
Total $ 17,627 $ 10,474 
Excludes $885 million in comm itments under lessee arrangements that have not yet
commenced with lease terms that will begin in 2021.
Includes $12.7 billion in commercial lease financing receivables and $4.9 billion in
direct/indirect consumer lease financing receivables.
Represents lease receivables for lessor arrangements and lease liabilities for lessee
arrangements.
 
NOTE 9 Deposits
The table below present s information about the Corporation’ s time deposits of $100,000 or more at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
The Corporation also had aggregate time deposits of $10.7 billion and $15.8 billion in denominations that met or exceeded the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance limit at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Time Deposits of $100,000 or More
December 31, 2020December 31
 2019
(Dollars in millions)Three Months
 or LessOver Three
 Months to
 Twelve Months Thereafter Total Total
U.S. certificates of deposit and other time deposits $ 12,485 $ 10,668 $ 1,445 $ 24,598 $ 39,739 
Non-U.S. certificates of deposit and other time deposits 8,568 1,925 1,432 11,925 13,034 (1)
(1)(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
Bank of America 134
The scheduled contractual maturities for total time deposits at December 31, 2020 are presented in the table below .
Contractual Maturities of Total Time Deposits
(Dollars in millions) U.S. Non-U.S. Total
Due in 2021 $ 40,052 $ 10,609 $ 50,661 
Due in 2022 2,604 167 2,771 
Due in 2023 431 4 435 
Due in 2024 222 5 227 
Due in 2025 186 13 199 
Thereafter 276 1,287 1,563 
Total time deposits $ 43,771 $ 12,085 $ 55,856 
NOTE 10 Federal Funds Sold or Purchased, Securities Financing Agreements, Short-term
Borrowings and Restricted Cash
The table below presents federal funds sold or purchased, securities financing agreements (which include securities borrowed or
purchased under agreements to resell and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase) and short-term borrowings.
The Corporation elects to account for certain securities financing agreements and short-term borrowings under the fair value option.
For more information on the fair value option, see Note 21 – Fair V alue Option .
Amount Rate Amount Rate
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to
resell
Average during year $ 309,945 0.29 %$ 279,610 1.73 %
Maximum month-end balance during year 451,179 n/a 281,684 n/a
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to
repurchase
Average during year $ 192,479 0.69 %$ 201,797 2.31 %
Maximum month-end balance during year 206,493 n/a 203,063 n/a
Short-term borrowings
Average during year 22,486 0.54 24,301 2.42 
Maximum month-end balance during year 30,118 n/a 36,538 n/a
n/a = not applicable
Bank of America, N.A. maintains a global progra m to offer up
to a maximum of $75.0 billion outstanding at any one time, of
bank notes with fixed or floating rates and maturities of at least
seven days  from the date of issue. Short-term bank notes
outstanding under this program totaled $3.9 billion and $11.7
billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019. These short-term bank
notes, along with Federal Home Loan Bank advances, U.S.
Treasury tax and loan notes, and term federal funds purchased,
are included in short-term borrowings on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet.
Offsetting of Securities Financing Agreements
The Corporation enters into securities financing agreements to
accommodate customer s (also referred to as “matched-book
transactions”), obtain securities to cover short positions and
finance inventory positions. Substantially all of the Corporation’ s
securities financing activities are transacted  under legally
enforceable master repurchase agreemen ts or legally
enforceable master securities lending agreemen ts that give the
Corporation, in the event of default by the counterparty , the rightto liquidate securities held and to offset receivables and
payables with the same counterparty . The Corporation offsets
securities financing transactions with the same counterparty on
the Consolid ated Balance Sheet where it has such a legally
enforceable master netting agreement and the transactions have
the same maturity date.
The Securities Financing Agreements table presents
securities financing agreements included on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet in federal funds sold and securities borrowed or
purchased under agreements to resell, and in federal funds
purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to
repurchase at December 31, 2020 and 2019. Balances are
presented on a gross  basis, prior to the application of
counterparty netting. Gross assets and liabilities are adjusted on
an aggrega te basis to take into consideration  the effects of
legally enforceable master netting agreements. For more
information on the offsetting of derivatives, see Note 3 –
Derivatives .
135 Bank of America
Securities Financing Agreements
Gross
Assets/Liabilities
Amounts OffsetNet Balance
Sheet AmountFinancial
Instruments Net
Assets/Liabilities
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2020
Securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell $ 492,387 $ (188,329)$ 304,058 $ (272,351)$ 31,707 
Securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase $ 358,652 $ (188,329)$ 170,323 $ (158,867)$ 11,456 
Other 16,210 — 16,210 (16,210) — 
Total $ 374,862 $ (188,329)$ 186,533 $ (175,077)$ 11,456 
December 31, 2019
Securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell $ 434,257 $ (159,660)$ 274,597 $ (244,486)$ 30,111 
Securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase $ 324,769 $ (159,660)$ 165,109 $ (141,482)$ 23,627 
Other 15,346 — 15,346 (15,346) — 
Total $ 340,115 $ (159,660)$ 180,455 $ (156,828)$ 23,627 
Includes activity where uncertainty exists as to the enforceability of certain master netting agreements under bankruptcy laws in some countries or industries.
Includes securities collateral received or pledged under repurchase or securities lending agreements where there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement. These amounts are not offset
on the Consolidated Balance Sheet , but are shown as a reduction to derive a net asset or liability . Securities collateral received or pledged where the legal enforceability of the master netting
agreements is uncertain is excluded from the table.
Excludes repurchase activity of $ 14.7 billion and $ 12.9 billion reported in loans and leases on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Balance is reported in accrued expenses and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and relates to transactions where the Corporation acts as the lender in a securities lending
agreement and receives securities that can be pledged as collateral or sold. In these transactions, the Corporation recognizes an asset at fair value, representing the securities received, and a
liability , representing the obligation to return those securities.
Repurchase Agreements and Securities Loaned Transactions Accounted for as Secured Borrowings
The following tables present securities sold under agreements to repurchase and securities loaned by remaining contractual term to
maturity and class of collateral pledged. Included in “Other” are transactions where the Corporat ion acts as the lender in a securities
lending agreement and receives securities that can be pledged as collateral or sold. Certain agreements contain a right to substitute
collateral and/or terminate the agreement prior to maturity at the option of the Corporation or the counterparty . Such agreements are
included in the table below based on the remaining contractual term to maturity .
Remaining Contractual Maturity
Overnight and
Continuous 30 Days or LessAfter 30 Days
Through 90 DaysGreater than
90 Days Total
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2020
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase $ 158,400 $ 122,448 $ 32,149 $ 22,684 $ 335,681 
Securities loaned 19,140 271 1,029 2,531 22,971 
Other 16,210 — — — 16,210 
Total $ 193,750 $ 122,719 $ 33,178 $ 25,215 $ 374,862 
December 31, 2019
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase $ 129,455 $ 122,685 $ 25,322 $ 21,922 $ 299,384 
Securities loaned 18,766 3,329 1,241 2,049 25,385 
Other 15,346 — — — 15,346 
Total $ 163,567 $ 126,014 $ 26,563 $ 23,971 $ 340,115 
No agreements have maturities greater than three years .
Class of Collateral Pledged
Securities Sold
Under Agreements
to RepurchaseSecurities
 Loaned Other Total
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2020
U.S. government and agency securities $ 195,167 $ 5 $ — $ 195,172 
Corporate securities, trading loans and other 8,633 1,628 1,217 11,478 
Equity securities 14,752 21,125 14,931 50,808 
Non-U.S. sovereign debt 113,142 213 62 113,417 
Mortgage trading loans and ABS 3,987 — — 3,987 
Total $ 335,681 $ 22,971 $ 16,210 $ 374,862 
December 31, 2019
U.S. government and agency securities $ 173,533 $ 1 $ — $ 173,534 
Corporate securities, trading loans and other 10,467 2,014 258 12,739 
Equity securities 14,933 20,026 15,024 49,983 
Non-U.S. sovereign debt 96,576 3,344 64 99,984 
Mortgage trading loans and ABS 3,875 — — 3,875 
Total $ 299,384 $ 25,385 $ 15,346 $ 340,115 (1) (2)
(3)
(4)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(1)
Bank of America 136
Under repur chase agree ments, the Corporation is required to
post collateral with a market value equal to or in excess of the
principal amount borrow ed. For securities loaned transactions,
the Corpora tion receives collateral in the form of cash, letters of
credit or other securities . To determine whether the market value
of the underlying collateral remains sufficient, collateral is
generally valued daily, and the Corporation may be required to
deposit additional collateral or may receive or return collateral
pledged when appropriate. Repurchase agreements and
securities loaned transa ctions are generally either overnight,
continuous (i.e., no stated term) or short-term. The Corporation
manages liquidity risks related to these agreements by sourcingfunding from a diverse group of counterparties, providing a
range of securities collateral and pursuing longer durations,
when appropriate.
Restricted Cash
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Corporation held restricted
cash included within cash and cash equivalents on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet of $7.0 billion and $24.4 billion,
predominantly related to cash held on deposit with the Federal
Reserve Bank and non-U.S. central banks to meet reserve
requirements and cash segregated in complianc e with securities
regulations.
NOTE 11 Long-term Debt
Long-term debt consists of borrowings having an original maturity of one year or more. The table below presents the balance of long-
term debt at December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the related contractual rates and maturity dates as of December 31, 2020.
Weighted-
average RateDecember 31
(Dollars in millions) Interest Rates Maturity Dates 2020 2019
Notes issued by Bank of America Corporation   
Senior notes:   
Fixed 3.05 % 0.25 - 8.05% 2021 - 2051$ 174,385 $ 140,265 
Floating 0.74 0.09 - 4.96 2021 - 2044 16,788 19,552 
Senior structured notes 17,033 16,941 
Subordinated notes:
Fixed 4.89 2.94 - 8.57 2021 - 2045 23,337 21,632 
Floating 1.15 0.88 - 1.41 2022 - 2026 799 782 
Junior subordinated notes:
Fixed 6.71 6.45 - 8.05 2027 - 2066 738 736 
Floating 1.03 1.03 2056 1 1 
Total notes issued by Bank of America Corporation 233,081 199,909 
Notes issued by Bank of America, N.A.   
Senior notes:   
Fixed 3.34 3.34 2023 511 508 
Floating 0.33 0.28 - 0.49 2021 - 2041 2,323 6,519 
Subordinated notes 6.00 6.00 2036 1,883 1,744 
Advances from Federal Home Loan Banks:
Fixed 0.99 0.01 - 7.72 2021 - 2034 599 112 
Floating — 2,500 
Securitizations and other BANA VIEs 6,296 8,373 
Other 683 402 
Total notes issued by Bank of America, N.A. 12,295 20,158 
Other debt   
Structured liabilities 16,792 20,442 
Nonbank VIEs 757 347 
Other 9 — 
Total notes issued by nonbank and other entities 17,558 20,789 
Total long-term debt $ 262,934 $ 240,856 
Includes total loss-absorbing capacity compliant debt.
Represents liabilities of consolidated VIEs included in total long-term debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
During 2020, the Corpo ration issued $56.9 billion of long-
term debt consisting of $43.8 billion of notes issued by Bank of
America Corporation, $4.8 billion of notes issued  by Bank of
America, N.A. and $8.3 billion of other debt. During 2019, the
Corporation issued $52.5 billion of long-term debt consisting of
$29.3 billion of notes issued by Bank of America Corporation,
$10.9 billion of notes issued by Bank of America, N.A. and $12.3
billion of other debt.
During 2020, the Corporation had total long-term debt
maturities and redemptions in the aggregate of $47.1 billion
consisting of $22.6 billion for Bank of America Corporation,
$11.5 billion for Bank of America, N.A. and $13.0 billion of other
debt. During 2019, the Corporation had total long-term debt
maturities and redemptions in the aggregate of $50.6 billion
consisting of $21.1 billion for Bank of America Corporation,
$19.9 billion for Bank of America, N.A. and $9.6 billion of other
debt.Bank of America Corporation and Bank of America, N.A.
maintain various U.S. and non-U.S. debt programs to offer both
senior and subordinated notes. The notes may be denominated
in U.S. dollars or foreign currencies. At December 31, 2020 and
2019, the amount of foreign currency-denominated debt
translated into U.S. dolla rs included in total long-term debt was
$54.6 billion and $49.6 billion. Foreign currenc y contracts may
be used to convert certain foreign currency-denominated debt
into U.S. dollars.
At December 31, 2020, long-term debt of consolidated VIEs
in the table above included debt from credit card, residential
mortgage, home equity and other VIEs of $6.3 billion, $491
million, $178 million and $111 million, respectively . Long-term
debt of VIEs  is collateralized by the assets of the VIEs. For more
information, see Note 6 – Securitizations and Other Variable
Interest Entities.(1)
 (2)
 (2)
(1)
(2)
137 Bank of America
The weighted-average effective interest rates for total long-
term debt (excluding senior structured notes), total fixed-rate
debt and total floating-rate debt were 3.02 percent, 3.29 percent
and 0.71 percent, respectively , at December 31, 2020, and 3.26
percent, 3.55 percent and 1.92 percent, respectively , at
December 31, 2019. The Corporation’ s ALM activities maintain
an overall interest rate risk management  strategy that
incorporates the use of interest rate contracts to manage
fluctuations in earnings caused by interest rate volatility . The
Corporation’ s goal is to manage interest rate sensitivity so that
movements in interest rates do not have a significantly adverse
effect on earnings and capital. The weighted-average rates are
the contractu al interest rates on the debt and do not reflect the
impacts of derivative transactions.
Debt outstanding of $4.8 billion at December 31, 2020 was
issued by BofA Finance LLC, a consolidated finance subsidiaryof Bank of America Corporation, the parent company , and is fully
and unconditionally guaranteed by the parent company .
The table below shows the carrying value for aggregate
annual contractual maturities of long-term debt as of
December 31, 2020. Included in the table are certain structured
notes issued by the Corporation that contain provisions whereby
the borrowings are redeemable at the option of the holder (put
options) at specified dates prior to maturity . Other structured
notes have coupon or repayment terms linked to the
performance of debt or equity securities, indices, currencies or
commodities, and the maturity may be accelerat ed based on the
value of a referenced index or security . In both cases, the
Corporation or a subsidiary may be required to settle the
obligation for cash or other securities prior to the contractual
maturity date. These borrowings are reflected in the table as
maturing at their contractual maturity date.
Long-term Debt by Maturity
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 Thereafter Total
Bank of America Corporation
Senior notes $ 8,888 $ 15,380 $ 23,872 $ 21,407 $ 15,723 $ 105,903 $ 191,173 
Senior structured notes 469 2,034 597 190 549 13,194 17,033 
Subordinated notes 371 393 — 3,351 5,537 14,484 24,136 
Junior subordinated notes — — — — — 739 739 
Total Bank of America Corporation 9,728 17,807 24,469 24,948 21,809 134,320 233,081 
Bank of America, N.A.
Senior notes 1,340 975 511 — — 8 2,834 
Subordinated notes — — — — — 1,883 1,883 
Advances from Federal Home Loan Banks 502 3 1 — 18 75 599 
Securitizations and other Bank VIEs 4,056 1,241 977 — — 22 6,296 
Other 112 16 189 — 279 87 683 
Total Bank of America, N.A. 6,010 2,235 1,678 — 297 2,075 12,295 
Other debt
Structured Liabilities 4,613 2,414 2,221 655 859 6,030 16,792 
Nonbank VIEs 1 — — — — 756 757 
Other — — — — — 9 9 
Total other debt 4,614 2,414 2,221 655 859 6,795 17,558 
Total long-term debt $ 20,352 $ 22,456 $ 28,368 $ 25,603 $ 22,965 $ 143,190 $ 262,934 
Represents liabilities of consolidated VIEs included in total long-term debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
NOTE 12 Commitments and Contingencies
In the norma l course of business, the Corporation enters into a
number of off-balance sheet commitments. These commitments
expose the Corporation to varying degrees of credit and market
risk and are subject to the same credit and mark et risk limitation
reviews as those instruments recorded on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet.
Credit Extension Commitments
The Corporation enters into commitments to extend credit such
as loan commitments, SBLCs and commercial letters of credit to
meet the financing need s of its customers. The following table
includes the notional amount of unfunded legally binding lending
commitments net of amounts distributed (i.e., syndicated or
participated) to other financial institutions. The distributed
amounts were $10.5 billion and $10.6 billion at December 31,
2020 and 2019. The carrying value of these commitments at
December 31, 2020 and 2019, excluding commitments
accounted for under the fair value option, was$1.9 billion and $829 million, which primarily related to the
reserve for unfunded lending commitments. The carrying value
of these commitments is classified in accrued expenses and
other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Legally binding commitments to extend credit generally have
specified rates and maturities. Certain of these commitments
have adverse change clauses that help to protect the
Corporation against deterioration in the borrower ’s ability to pay .
The table below includes the notional amount of
commitments of $4.0 billion and $4.4 billion at December 31,
2020 and 2019 that are accounted for unde r the fair value
option. However, the table excludes cumulative net fair value of
$99 million  and $90 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019 on
these commitments, which is classified in accrued expenses and
other liabilitie s. For more information regarding the Corporation’ s
loan commitments accounted for under the fair value option, see
Note 21 – Fair V alue Option.(1)
(1)
(1)     
Bank of America 138
Credit Extension Commitments
Expire in One
 Year or LessExpire After One
 Year Through
 Three YearsExpire After Three
Years Through 
 Five YearsExpire After 
 Five Years Total
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2020
Notional amount of credit extension commitments      
Loan commitments $ 109,406 $ 171,887 $ 139,508 $ 16,091 $ 436,892 
Home equity lines of credit 710 2,992 8,738 29,892 42,332 
Standby letters of credit and financial guarantees 19,962 12,038 2,397 1,257 35,654 
Letters of credit 886 197 25 27 1,135 
Legally binding commitments 130,964 187,114 150,668 47,267 516,013 
Credit card lines 384,955 — — — 384,955 
Total credit extension commitments $ 515,919 $ 187,114 $ 150,668 $ 47,267 $ 900,968 
 December 31, 2019
Notional amount of credit extension commitments      
Loan commitments $ 97,454 $ 148,000 $ 173,699 $ 24,487 $ 443,640 
Home equity lines of credit 1,137 1,948 6,351 34,134 43,570 
Standby letters of credit and financial guarantees 21,311 11,512 3,712 408 36,943 
Letters of credit 1,156 254 65 25 1,500 
Legally binding commitments 121,058 161,714 183,827 59,054 525,653 
Credit card lines 376,067 — — — 376,067 
Total credit extension commitments $ 497,125 $ 161,714 $ 183,827 $ 59,054 $ 901,720 
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, $ 4.8 billion and $ 5.1 billion of these loan commitments were held in the form of a security .
The notio nal amounts of SBLCs and financial guarantees classified as investment grade and non-investment grade based on the credit quality of the underlying reference name within the
instrument were $ 25.0 billion and $10.2 billion at December 31, 2020, and $27.9 billion and $8.6 billion at December 31, 2019. Amou nts in the table include consumer SBLCs of $500 million and
$413 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, included are letters of credit of $ 1.8 billion and $ 1.4 billion related to certain liquidity commitments of VIEs. For more information, see Note 6 – Securitizations and
Other V ariable Interest Entities .
    Includes business card unused lines of credit.
Other Commitments
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Corporation had
commitments to purchase loans (e.g., residentia l mortgage and
commercial real estate) of $93 million and $86 million, which
upon settlement will be included in trading account assets, loans
or LHFS, and commitments to purchase commercial loans of
$645 million and $1.1 billion, which upon settlement will be
included in trading account assets.
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Corporation had
commitments to purchase commodities, primarily liquefied
natural gas, of $582 millio n and $830 millio n, which upon
settlement will be included in trading account assets.
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Corporation had
commitments to enter into resale and forward-dated resale and
securities borrowing agreements of $66.5 billion and $97.2
billion, and commitments  to enter into forward-dated repurchase
and securiti es lending agreements of $32.1 billion and $24.9
billion. These commitments generally expire within the next 12
months.
At December 31, 2020  and 2019, the Corporation had a
commitment to originate or purchase up to $3.9 billion and $3.3
billion on a rolling 12-month basis, of auto loans and leases from
a strategic partner . This commitment extends through November
2022 and can be terminated with 12 months prior notice.
Other Guarantees
Bank-owned Life Insurance Book Value Protection
The Corporation sells products that offer book value protection
to insurance  carriers who offer group life insurance policies to
corporations, primarily banks. At December 31, 2020 and 2019,
the notional amount of these guarantees totaled $7.1 billion and
$7.3 billion. At both December 31, 2020 and 2019, the
Corporation’ s maximum exposure related to these guarantees
totaled $ 1.1 billion, with estimated maturity dates between 2033
and 2039.Indemnifications
In the ordina ry course of business, the Corpora tion enters into
various agreements that contain indemnificatio ns, such as tax
indemnifications, where upon payment may become due if
certain exter nal events occur , such as a change in tax law. The
indemnification clauses are often standard contractual terms and
were entered into in the normal course of business based on an
assessment that the risk of loss would be remote. These
agreements typically contain an early termina tion clause that
permits the Corporation to exit the agreement upon these
events. The maximum  potential future payment under
indemnification agreements is difficult to assess for several
reasons, including the occurrence of an external event, the
inability to predict future changes in tax and other laws, the
difficulty in determining how such laws would apply to parties in
contracts, the absence of exposure limits contained in standard
contract language and the timing of any early termination
clauses. Historically , any payments made under these
guarantees have been de minimis. The Corporation has
assessed the probability of making such payments in the future
as remote.
Merchant Services
Prior to July 1, 2020, a significant portion of the Corporation's
merchant processing activity was performed by a joint venture in
which the Corporation held a 49 percent ownership interest. On
July 29, 2019, the Corporation gave notice to the joint venture
partner of the termina tion of the joint venture upon the
conclusion of its current term on June 30, 2020. Effective July 1,
2020, the Corporation received its share of the joint venture's
merchant contracts and began performing merchant processing
services for these merchants. While merchants bear
responsibility for any credit or debit card charges properly
reversed by the cardholder , the Corporation,  in its role as
merchant acquirer , may be held liable for any reversed charges
that cannot be collected from the merchants due to, among
other things, merchant fraud or insolvency .(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)     
(2)     
(3)     
(4)
139 Bank of America
The Corporation, as a card network member bank, also
sponsors other merchant acquirers, principally  its former joint
venture partner with respect to merchant contracts distributed to
that partner upon the termination of the joint venture. If charges
are properly reversed after a purchase and cannot be collected
from either the merchants or merchant acquirers, the
Corporation may be held liable for these reversed charges. The
ability to reverse a charge is primarily governed by the
applicable regulatory and card network rules, which include, but
are not limite d to, the type of charge, type of payment used and
time limits. For the six-months ended December 31, 2020, the
Corporation processed an aggregate purchase volume of $ 339.2
billion. The Corporation’ s risk in this area primarily relates to
circumstances where a cardholder has purch ased goods or
services for future delivery . The Corporation mitigates this risk
by requiring cash depos its, guarantees, letters of credit or other
types of collateral from certain merchants. The Corporation’ s
reserves for contingent losses and the losses incurred related to
the merchant processing activity were not significant. The
Corporation continues to monitor its exposure in this area due to
the potential economic impacts of COVID-19.
Exchange and Clearing House Member Guarantees
The Corporation is a member of various securities and derivative
exchanges and clearinghouses, both in the U.S. and other
countries. As a member , the Corporation may be required to pay
a pro-rata share of the losses incurred by some of these
organizations as a result of another member default and under
other loss scenarios. The Corporation’ s potential obligations
may be limited to its membership interests in such exchanges
and clearinghouses, to the amount (or multiple) of the
Corporation’ s contribution to the guarantee fund or, in limited
instances, to the full pro-rata share of the residual losses after
applying the guarantee fund. The Corporation’ s maximum
potential exposure under these membership agreements is
difficult to estimate; however , the Corporation has assessed the
probability of making any such payments as remote.
Prime Brokerage and Securities Clearing Services
In connection with its prime brokerage and clearing businesses,
the Corpora tion perform s securities clearance and settlement
services with other brokerage firms and clearinghouses on
behalf of its clients. Under these arrangements, the Corporation
stands ready  to meet the obligations of its clients with respect to
securities transactions. The Corporation’ s obligations in this
respect are secured by the assets in the clients’ accounts and
the accounts of their customers as well as by any proceeds
received from the transactions cleared and settled by the
Corporation on behalf of clients or their customers. The
Corporation’ s maximum potential exposure  under these
arrangements is difficult to estimate; however , the potential for
the Corporation to incur material losses pursuant to these
arrangements is remote.
Fixed Income Clearing Corporation Sponsored
Member Repo Program
The Corpor ation acts as a sponsoring member in a repo
program whereby the Corporation clears certai n eligible resale
and repurchase agreements through the Government Securities
Division of the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation on behalf of
clients that are sponsored members in accordance with the
Fixed Income Clearing Corporation’ s rules. As part of this
program, the Corpora tion guarantees the payment and
performance of its sponsored members to the Fixed Income
Clearing Corporation. The Corporation’ s guarantee obligation issecured by a security interest in cash or high-quality securities
collateral placed by clients with the clearinghouse and therefore,
the potential for the Corporation to incur significa nt losses under
this arrangement is remote. The Corporation’ s maximum
potential exposure, without taking into consideration the related
collateral, was $22.5 billion and $9.3 billion at December 31,
2020 and 2019.
Other Guarantees
The Corpo ration has entered into additional guarantee
agreements and commitments, including sold risk participation
swaps, liquidity facilities, lease-end obligatio n agreements,
partial credit guarantees on certain leases, real estate joint
venture guarantees, divested business commitments and sold
put options that require gross settlement. The maximum
potential future paym ents under these agreements are
approximately $ 8.8 billion and $ 8.7 billion at December 31, 2020
and 2019. The estimated maturity dates of these obligations
extend up to 2049. The Corporation has made no material
payments under these guarantees. For more  information on
maximum potential future payments under VIE-related liquidity
commitments, see Note 6 – Securitizations and Other Variable
Interest Entities .
In the normal course of business, the Corporation periodically
guarantees the obligations of its affiliates in a variety of
transactions including ISDA-related transactions  and non-ISDA
related trans actions such as commodities trading, repurchase
agreements, prime brokerage agreements and other
transactions.
Guarantees of Certain Long-term Debt
The Corporation, as the parent company , fully and
unconditionally guarant ees the securities issued by BofA
Finance LLC, a consolidated finance subsidiary of the
Corporation, and effectively provides for the full and
unconditional guarantee of trust securities issued by certain
statutory trust companies that are 100 percent owned finance
subsidiaries of the Corporation.
Representations and Warranties Obligations and
Corporate Guarantees
The Corporation securitizes first-lien residential mortgage loans
generally in the form of RMBS guaranteed by the GSEs or by
GNMA in the case of FHA-insured, VA-guaranteed and Rural
Housing Service-guaranteed mortgage loans, and sells pools of
first-lien residential mortgage loans in the form of whole loans. In
addition, in prior years, legacy companie s and certain
subsidiaries sold pools of first-lien residential mortgage loans
and home equity loans as private-label securitizations or in the
form of whole loans. In connection with these transactions, the
Corporation or certain of its subsidiaries or legacy companies
make and have made various representations and warranties.
Breaches of these representations and warrantie s have resulted
in and may continue to result in the requiremen t to repurchase
mortgage loans or to otherwise make whole or provide
indemnification or other remedies to sponsors, investors,
securitization trusts, guarantors, insurers or other parties
(collectively , repurchases).
Unresolved Repurchase Claims
Unresolved representations and warranties repurchase claims
represent the notional amount of repurchase claims made by
counterparties, typically the outstanding principa l balance or the
unpaid princ ipal balance at the time of default. In the case of
first-lien mortgages, the claim amount is often significantly
Bank of America 140
greater than the expec ted loss amount due to the benefit of
collateral and, in some cases, mortgage insurance or mortgage
guarantee payments.
The notional amount of unresolved repurchase claims at
December 31, 2020 and 2019 was $8.5 billion and $10.7 billion.
These balances included $2.9 billion and $3.7 billion at
December 31, 2020 and 2019 of claims related to loans in
specific private-label securitization groups or tranches where the
Corporation owns substantially all of the outsta nding securities
or will otherwise realize the benefit of any repurchase claims
paid.
During 2020, the Corp oration received $89 million in new
repurchase claims that were not time-barred. During 2020,
$2.4 billion  in claims were resolved, including $168 million of
claims that were deemed time-barred.
Reserve and Related Provision
The reserve for representations and warranties  obligations and
corporate guarantees was $1.3 billion and $1.8 billion at
December 31, 2020 and 2019 and is included in accrued
expenses and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet and the related provision is included in other income in
the Consolidated Statement of Income. The representations and
warranties reserve represents the Corporation’ s best estimate of
probable incurred losses , is based on its experie nce in previous
negotiations, and is subject to judgment, a variety of
assumptions, and known or unknown uncertainties. Future
representations and warranties losses may occur in excess of
the amount s recorded for these exposures; however , the
Corporation does not expect such amounts to be material to the
Corporation's financial condition and liquidity . See Litigation and
Regulatory Matters below for the Corporation's combined range
of possible loss in excess of the reserve for representations and
warranties and the accrued liability for litigation.
Litigation and Regulatory Matters
In the ordinary course of business, the Corp oration and its
subsidiaries are routinely defendants in or parties to many
pending and threatened legal, regulatory and governmental
actions and proceedings. In view of the inherent difficulty of
predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly where the
claimants seek very large or indeterminate damages or where
the matters present novel legal theories or involve a large
number of parties, the Corporation generally cannot predict the
eventual outcome of the pending matters, timing of the ultimate
resolution of these matters, or eventual loss, fines or penalties
related to each pending matter .
As a matter develops, the Corporation, in conjunction with
any outside counsel handling the matter , evaluates whether
such matter  presents a loss contingency that is probable and
estimable, and, for the matters disclosed in this Note, whether a
loss in excess of any accrued liability is reason ably possible in
future period s. Once the loss contingency is deemed to be both
probable and estimable, the Corporation will establish an
accrued liability and record a corresponding amount of litigation-
related expense. The Corporation continues to monitor the
matter for further develo pments that could affect the amount of
the accrued  liability that has been previously established.
Excluding expenses of internal and external legal service
providers, litigation-related expense of $823 million and $681
million was recognized in 2020 and 2019.
For the matters disclosed in this Note for which a loss in
future periods is reasonably possible and estimable (whether in
excess of an accrued liability or where there is no accrued
liability) and for representations and warranties  exposures, the
Corporation’ s estimated range of possible loss is $ 0 to $1.3billion in excess of the accrued liability , if any, as of December
31, 2020.
The accrued  liability and estimated range of possible loss are
based upon currently available information and subject to
significant judgment, a variety of assumptions and known and
unknown uncertainties. The matters underlyin g the accrued
liability and estimated range of possible loss are unpredictable
and may change from time to time, and actual losses may vary
significantly from the current estimate and accrual. The
estimated range of possible loss does not represent the
Corporation’ s maximum loss exposure.
Information is provided below regarding the nature of the
litigation and associated  claimed damages. Based on current
knowledge, and taking into account accrued liabilities,
management does not believe that loss contin gencies arising
from pending matters, including the matters described herein,
will have a material adverse effect on the conso lidated financial
condition or liquidity of the Corporation. However , in light of the
significant judgment, variety of assumptions and uncertainties
involved in these matters, some of which are beyond the
Corporation’ s control, and the very large or indeterminate
damages sought in some of these matters, an adverse outcome
in one or more of these matters could be material to the
Corporation’ s business or results of operations for any particular
reporting period, or cause significant reputational harm.
Ambac Bond Insurance Litigation
Ambac Assurance Corporation and the Segreg ated Account of
Ambac Assu rance Corporation (together , Ambac) have filed four
separate lawsuits against the Corporation and its subsidiaries
relating to bond insurance policies Ambac provided on certain
securitized pools of HELOCs, first-lien subprim e home equity
loans, fixed-rate second-lien mortgage loans  and negative
amortization pay option adjustable-rate mortgag e loans. Ambac
alleges that they have paid or will pay claims  as a result of
defaults in the underlying loans and asserts that the defendants
misrepresented the characteristics of the underlying loans
and/or breached certain contractual representations and
warranties regarding the underwriting and servicing of the loans.
In those actions where the Corporation is named as a
defendant, Ambac contends the Corporation is liable on various
successor and vicarious liability theories. These actions are at
various procedural stage s with material develop ments provided
below .
Ambac v . Countrywide I
The Corporation, and several Countrywide entities are named as
defendants in an action filed on September 28, 2010 in New
York Supreme Court. Ambac asserts claims  for fraudulent
inducement as well as breach of contract and seeks damages in
excess of $ 2.2 billion, plus punitive damages.
On May 16, 2017, the First Department issued its decisions
on the parties' cross-appeals of the trial court's October 22, 2015
summary judgment rulings. Ambac appealed the First
Department's rulings requiring Ambac to prove all of the
elements of its fraudulen t inducement claim, including justifiable
reliance and loss causation; restricting Ambac's sole remedy for
its breach of contract claims to the repurchase protocol of cure,
repurchase or substitution of any materially defective loan; and
dismissing Ambac's claim for reimbursements of attorneys' fees.
On June 27, 2018, the New York Court of Appeals affirmed the
First Department rulings that Ambac appealed.
141 Bank of America
On December 4, 2020, the New York Supreme Court
dismissed Ambac’ s fraudulent inducement claim. Ambac
appealed the dismissal.
Ambac v . Countrywide II
On Decemb er 30, 2014, Ambac filed a compla int in New York
Supreme Court against the same defendants, claiming
fraudulent inducement against Countrywide, and successor and
vicarious liability against the Corporation. Ambac seeks
damages in excess of $ 600 million, plus punitive damages.
Ambac v . Countrywide IV
On July 21, 2015, Amba c filed an action in New York Supreme
Court again st Countrywide asserting the same claims for
fraudulent inducement that Ambac asserted in the now-
dismissed Ambac v. Countrywide III. The complaint seeks
damages in excess of $350 million, plus punitive damages. On
December 8, 2020, the New York Supreme Court dismissed
Ambac’ s complaint. Ambac appealed the dismissal.
Ambac v . First Franklin
On April 16, 2012, Ambac filed an action against BANA, First
Franklin and various Merrill Lynch entities, including Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, in New York
Supreme Court relating to guaranty insurance Ambac provided
on a First Franklin securitization sponsored by Merrill L ynch. The
complaint alleges fraudulent inducement and breach of contract,
including breach of contract claims against BANA based upon its
servicing of the loans in the securitization. Ambac seeks as
damages hundreds of millions of dollars that Ambac alleges it
has paid or will pay in claims.
Deposit Insurance Assessment
On January 9, 2017, the FDIC filed suit against BANA in the
U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia alleging failure to
pay a December 15, 2016 invoice for additional deposit
insurance assessments and interest in the amount of
$542 millio n for the quarters ending June 30, 2013 through
December 31, 2014. On April 7, 2017, the FDIC amended its
complaint to add a claim for additional deposi t insurance and
interest in the amount of $583 millio n for the quarters ending
March 31, 2012 throug h March 31, 2013. The FDIC asserts
these claims based on BANA ’s alleged underreporting of
counterparty exposures  that resulted in underpayment of
assessments for those quarters and its Enforcement Section is
also conducting a parallel investigation related to the same
alleged reporting error. BANA disagrees with the FDIC’ s
interpretation of the regulations as they existed during the
relevant time period and is defending itself against the FDIC’ s
claims. Pending final resolution, BANA has pledged security
satisfactory to the FDIC related to the disputed additional
assessment amounts. On March 27, 2018, the U.S. District
Court for the District of Columbia denied BANA ’s partial motion
to dismiss certain of the FDIC’ s claims.
LIBOR, Other Reference Rates, Foreign Exchange
(FX) and Bond Trading Matters
Government authorities in the U.S. and various international
jurisdictions continue to conduct investigations of, to make
inquiries of, and to pursue proceedings against, the Corporationand its subs idiaries regarding FX and other reference rates as
well as government, sovereign, supranational and agency bonds
in connection with conduct and systems and controls. The
Corporation is cooperating with these inquiries and
investigations, and responding to the proceedings.
LIBOR
The Corporation, BANA and certain Merrill Lynch entities have
been named  as defendants along with most of the other LIBOR
panel banks in a number of individual and putative class actions
by persons alleging they sustained losses on U.S. dollar LIBOR-
based financial instruments as a result of collusion or
manipulation by defendants regarding the setting of U.S. dollar
LIBOR. Plaintif fs assert a variety of claims, including antitrust,
Commodity Exchange Act, Racketeer Influenc ed and Corrupt
Organizations (RICO), Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
common law fraud and breach of contract claims, and seek
compensatory , treble and punitive damages, and injunctive
relief. All but one of the cases naming the Corporation and its
affiliates relating to U.S. dollar LIBOR are pending in the U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New Y ork.
The District Court has dismissed all RICO claims, and
dismissed all manipulation claims against Bank of America
entities base d on alleged trader conduct. The District Court has
also substantially limited the scope of antitrust, Commodity
Exchange Act and various other claims, including by dismissing
in their entirety certain individual and putative class plaintif fs’
antitrust claims for lack of standing and/or personal jurisdiction.
Plaintif fs whose antitrust claims were dismissed by the District
Court are pursuing appeals in the Second Circuit. Certain
individual and putative class actions remain pending against the
Corporation, BANA and certain Merrill L ynch entities.
On February 28, 2018, the District Court granted certification
of a class of persons that purchased OTC swaps and notes that
referenced U.S. dollar LIBOR from one of the U.S. dollar LIBOR
panel banks, limited to claims under Section 1 of the Sherman
Act. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
subsequently denied a petition filed by the defendants for
interlocutory appeal of that ruling.
U.S. Bank - Harborview and SURF/OWNIT Repurchase
Litigation
Beginning in 2011, U.S. Bank, National Association (U.S. Bank),
as trustee for the HarborV iew Mortgage Loan Trust 2005-10 and
various SURF/OWNIT RMBS trusts filed complaints against the
Corporation, Countrywide entities, Merrill Lynch entities and
other affiliates in New York Supreme Court alleging breaches of
representations and warranties. The defenda nts and certain
certificate-holders in the trusts agreed to settle the respective
matters in amounts not material to the Corporation, subject to
acceptance by U.S. Bank. The litigations have been stayed
pending finalization of the settlements.
Bank of America 142
NOTE 13 Shareholders’ Equity
Common Stock
Declared Quarterly Cash Dividends on
Common Stock 
Declaration
Date Record Date Payment DateDividend
Per Share
January 19,
2021 March 5, 2021 March 26, 2021$ 0.18 
October 21,
2020December 4,
2020December 24,
2020 0.18 
July 22, 2020September 4,
2020September 25,
2020 0.18 
April 22, 2020 June 5, 2020 June 26, 2020 0.18 
January 29,
2020 March 6, 2020 March 27, 2020 0.18 
In 2020, and through February 24, 2021.
The cash dividends paid per share of common stock
were $0.72 $0.66 and $0.54 for 2020, 2019 and
2018, respectively .
The following table summarizes common stock
repurchases during 2020, 2019 and 2018.
Common Stock Repurchase Summary
(in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Total share repurchases,
including CCAR
 capital plan repurchases 227 956 676 
Purchase price of shares
repurchased 
 and retired
CCAR capital plan
repurchases $7,025 $25,644 $16,754 
Other authorized
repurchases — 2,500 3,340 
Total shares repurchased$7,025 $28,144 $20,094 
During 2020, the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve)
announced that due to economic uncert ainty
resulting from COVID-19, all large banks would be
required to suspend share repurchase programs in
the third and fourth quarters of 2020, except for
repurchases to offset shares awarded under equity-
based compensation plans, and to limit dividen ds to
existing rates that do not exceed the average of the
last four quarters’ net income.
The Federal Reserve’ s directives regarding share
repurchases aligned with the Corporation's decision
to voluntaril y suspend repurchases during the first
half of 2020. The susp ension of the Corporation's
repurchases did not include repurchases to offset
shares awarded under its equity-based
compensation plans.
During 2020, the Corp oration repurchased and
retired 227 million shares of comm on stock, which
reduced shareholders’ equity by $7.0 billion.
During 2020 , in connection with employee stock
plans, the Corporation issued 66 million shares of its
common stock and, to satisfy tax withho lding
obligations, repurchased 26 million shares of its
common stock.  At December 31, 2020, the
Corporation had reserved 513 million unissued
h f tkfft i dfixed-rate period, then quarterly during the floating-
rate period. The Series MM preferred stock has a
liquidation preference of $25,000  per share and is
subject to certain restrictions in the event the
Corporation fails to declare and pay full dividends.
On October 29, 2020,  the Corporation issue d
44,000  shares of 4.375 % Non-Cumulative Preferred
Stock, Series NN for $1.1 billion, with quarterly
dividend payments commencing in February 2021.
The Series NN preferred stock has a liquid ation
preference of $25,000  per share and is subject to
certain restrictions in the event the Corporation fails
to declare and pay full dividends.
On January 28, 2021,  the Corporation issue d
36,000  shares of 4.125 % Non-Cumulative Preferred
Stock, Series PP for $915 millio n, with quarterly
dividends commencing in May 2021. The Serie s PP
preferred stock has a liquidation preference of
$25,000  per share and is subject to certain
restrictions in the event the Corporation fails to
declare and pay full dividends.
In 2020, the Corporation  fully redeemed Series Y
preferred stock for $1.1 billion. Additionally , on
January 29, 2021, the Corporation fully redee med
Series CC preferred stock for $ 1.1 billion.
All series of preferred stock in the Preferred Stock
Summary table have a par value of $0.01 per share,
are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund,
have no participation rights, and with the exception of
the Series L Preferred Stock, are not convertible. The
holders of the Series B Preferred Stock and Series 1
through 5 Preferred Stock have general voting rights
and vote together with the common stock. The
holders of the other series included in the table have
no general voting rights. All outstanding series of
preferred stock of the Corporation have preference
over the Corporation’ s common stock with respect to
the payment of dividends and distribution of the
Corporation’ s assets in the event of a liquidation or
dissolution. With the exception of the Series B, F, G
and T Preferred Stock, if any dividend payable on
these series is in arrears for three  or more semi-
annual or six or more quarterly dividend periods, as
applicable (whether consecutive or not), the holders
of these series and any other class or series of
preferred stock ranking equally as to payment of
dividends and upon which equivalent voting rights
have been conferred and are exercisable (voting as a
single class) will be entitled to vote for the election of
two additional directors. These voting rights terminate
when the Corporation has paid in full dividends on
these series  for at least two semi-annual or four
quarterly dividend periods, as applicable, following
the dividend arrearage.
The 7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible
Preferred Stock, Series L (Series L Preferred Stock)
does not have early redemption/call rights. Each
share of the Series L Preferred Stock may be
converted at any time, at the option of the holder , into
20 share s of the Corporation’ s common stock plus
cash in lieu of fractional shares. The Corporation may
cause some or all of the Series L Preferred Stock, at
its option, at any time or from time to time, to be
converted into shares of common stock at the then-
applicable conversion rate if, for 20 trading days
during any period of 30 consecutive trading days, the
closing price ofcommon stock exceeds 130percent(1)
(1)
shares of common stock for future issuances under
employee stock plans, convertible notes and
preferred stock.
Preferred Stock
The cash dividends declared on preferred stock were
$1.4 billion, $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion for 2020,
2019 and 2018, respectively .
On January 24, 2020,  the Corporation issue d
44,000  shares of Fixed-to- Floating Rate Non-
Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series MM for $1.1
billion. Dividends are paid semi-annually during theclosing price  of common stock exceeds 130 percent
of the then-applicable conversion price of the Series
L Preferred Stock. If a conversion of Series L
Preferred Stock occurs at the option of the holder ,
subsequent to a dividend record date but prior to the
dividend payment date, the Corporation will still pay
any accrued dividends payable.
 
143 Bank of America
The table below presents a summary of perpetual preferred stock outstanding at December 31, 2020.
Preferred Stock Summary
(Dollars in millions, except as
noted)
Series DescriptionInitial
Issuance
 DateTotal
Shares
OutstandingLiquidation
Preference
per Share
(in dollars)Carrying
ValuePer Annum
Dividend RateDividend
per Share
(in
dollars)Annual
DividendRedemption
Period 
Series B7% Cumulative
RedeemableJune
1997 7,110  $ 100 $ 1 7.00 % $ 7 $ — n/a
Series EFloating Rate Non-
CumulativeNovember
2006 12,691  25,000  317 3-mo. LIBOR + 35
bps 1.02 13 On or after
November 15,
2011
Series FFloating Rate Non-
CumulativeMarch
2012 1,409  100,000  141 3-mo. LIBOR + 40
bps 4,066.67  6 On or after
March 15, 2012
Series GAdjustable Rate
Non-CumulativeMarch
2012 4,926  100,000  493 3-mo. LIBOR + 40
bps 4,066.67  20 On or after
March 15, 2012
Series L7.25% Non-
Cumulative
Perpetual
ConvertibleJanuary
2008 3,080,182  1,000  3,080  7.25 % 72.50  223 n/a
Series T 6% Non-
cumulativeSeptember
2011 354 100,000  35 6.00 % 6,000.00  2 After May 7,
2019
Series U Fixed-to-Floating
Rate Non-
CumulativeMay
2013 40,000  25,000  1,000  5.2% to, but
excluding, 6/1/23; 3-
mo. LIBOR + 313.5
bps thereafter 52.00  52 On or after
June 1, 2023
Series X Fixed-to-Floating
Rate Non-
CumulativeSeptember
2014 80,000  25,000  2,000  6.250 % to, but
excluding, 9/5/24; 3-
mo. LIBOR + 370.5
bps thereafter 62.50  125 On or after
September 5,
2024
Series Z Fixed-to-Floating
Rate Non-
CumulativeOctober
2014 56,000  25,000  1,400  6.500 % to, but
excluding, 10/23/24;
3-mo. LIBOR +
417.4  bps thereafter 65.00  91 On or after
October 23, 2024
Series AA Fixed-to-Floating
Rate Non-
CumulativeMarch
2015 76,000  25,000  1,900  6.100 % to, but
excluding, 3/17/25;
3-mo. LIBOR +
389.8  bps thereafter 61.00  116 On or after
March 17, 2025
Series CC6.200% Non-
CumulativeJanuary
2016 44,000  25,000  1,100  6.200  % 1.55 68 On or after
January 29, 2021
Series DDFixed-to-Floating
Rate Non-
CumulativeMarch
2016 40,000  25,000  1,000  6.300 % to, but
excluding, 3/10/26;
3-mo. LIBOR +
455.3  bps thereafter 63.00  63 On or after
March 10, 2026
Series EE6.000% Non-
CumulativeApril
2016 36,000  25,000  900 6.000  % 1.50 54 On or after
April 25, 2021
Series FFFixed-to-Floating
Rate Non-
CumulativeMarch
2018 94,000  25,000  2,350  5.875 % to, but
excluding, 3/15/28;
3-mo. LIBOR +
293.1  bps thereafter 58.75  138 On or after
March 15, 2028
Series GG6.000% Non-
CumulativeMay
2018 54,000  25,000  1,350  6.000  % 1.50 81 On or after
May 16, 2023
Series HH5.875% Non-
CumulativeJuly
2018 34,160  25,000  854 5.875  % 1.47 50 On or after
July 24, 2023
Series JJ Fixed-to-Floating
Rate Non-
CumulativeJune
2019 40,000  25,000  1,000  5.125 % to, but
excluding, 6/20/24;
3-mo. LIBOR +
329.2  bps thereafter 51.25  51 On or after
June 20, 2024
Series KK 5.375% Non-
CumulativeJune
2019 55,900  25,000  1,398  5.375  % 1.34 75 On or after
June 25, 2024
Series LL 5.000% Non-
CumulativeSeptember
2019 52,400  25,000  1,310  5.000  % 1.25 66 On or after
September 17,
2024
Series MMFixed-to-Floating
Rate Non-
CumulativeJanuary
2020 44,000  25,000  1,100  4.300  % 43.48  48 On or after
January 28, 2025
Series NN4.375% Non-
CumulativeOctober
2020 44,000  25,000  1,100  4.375  % 0.29 13 On or after
November 3,
2025
Series 1 Floating Rate Non-
CumulativeNovember
2004 3,275  30,000  98 3-mo. LIBOR + 75
bps 0.75 3 On or after
November 28,
2009
Series 2Floating Rate Non-
CumulativeMarch
2005 9,967  30,000  299 3-mo. LIBOR + 65
bps 0.76 10 On or after
November 28,
2009
Series 4Floating Rate Non-
CumulativeNovember
2005 7,010  30,000  210 3-mo. LIBOR + 75
bps 1.02 9 On or after
November 28,
2010
Series 5 Floating Rate Non-
CumulativeMarch
2007 14,056  30,000  422 3-mo. LIBOR + 50
bps 1.02 17 On or after
May 21, 2012
Issuance costs and certain
adjustments (348)
Total   3,931,440   $24,510    
The Corporation may redeem series  of preferred stock on or after the redemption date, in whole or in part, at its option, at the liquidation preferen ce plus declared
and unpaid dividends. Series B and Series L Preferred Stock do not have early redemption/call rights.
Ownership is held in the form of depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock, paying a quarterly cash  dividend, if and
when declared.
Subject to 4.00% minimum rate per annum.
Ownership is held in the form of depositary shares, each representing a 1/25th interest in a share of preferred stock, paying a semi-annual cash dividend, if and
when declared, until the first redemption date at which time, it adjusts to a quarterly cash dividend, if and when declared, thereafter .
Ownership is held in the form of depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,200th interest in a share of preferred stock, paying a quarterly cash  dividend, if and
when declared.
Subject to 3.00% minimum rate per annum.(1)
 (2) (3)
(3)
(3)
(4)
(4)
(4)
(4)
(2)
 (4)
 (2)
 (4)
(2)
(2)
(4)
(2)
(2)
(4)
 (2)
(5) (6)
 (5)  (6)
 (5)  (3)
(5) (3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
n/a = not applicable
 
Bank of America 144
NOTE 14  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
The table below presents the changes in accumulated OCI after-tax for 2020, 2019 and 2018.
(Dollars in millions) Debt SecuritiesDebit Valuation
Adjustments DerivativesEmployee
 Benefit PlansForeign
 Currency Total
Balance, December 31, 2017 $ (1,206)$ (1,060)$ (831)$ (3,192)$ (793)$ (7,082)
Accounting change related to certain tax effects (393) (220) (189) (707) 239 (1,270)
Cumulative adjustment for hedge accounting change — — 57 — — 57 
Net change (3,953) 749 (53) (405) (254) (3,916)
Balance, December 31, 2018 $ (5,552)$ (531)$ (1,016)$ (4,304)$ (808)$ (12,211)
Net change 5,875 (963) 616 136 (86) 5,578 
Balance, December 31, 2019 $ 323 $ (1,494)$ (400)$ (4,168)$ (894)$ (6,633)
Net change 4,799 (498) 826 (98) (52) 4,977 
Balance, December 31, 2020 $ 5,122 $ (1,992)$ 426 $ (4,266)$ (946)$ (1,656)
The table below presen ts the net change in fair value recorded in accumulated OCI, net realized gains and losses reclassified
into earnings and other changes for each component of OCI pre- and after-tax for 2020, 2019 and 2018.
PretaxTax 
effectAfter-
tax PretaxTax 
effectAfter-
tax Pretax Tax effectAfter-
tax
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Debt securities:
Net increase (decrease) in fair value $6,819 $(1,712)$5,107 $8,020 $(2,000)$6,020 $(5,189)$1,329 $(3,860)
Net realized (gains) reclassified into earnings (411) 103 (308) (193) 48 (145) (123) 30 (93)
Net change 6,408 (1,609) 4,799 7,827 (1,952) 5,875 (5,312) 1,359 (3,953)
Debit valuation adjustments:
Net increase (decrease) in fair value (669) 156 (513) (1,276) 289 (987) 952 (224) 728 
Net realized losses reclassified into earnings 19 (4) 15 18 6 24 26 (5) 21 
Net change (650) 152 (498) (1,258) 295 (963) 978 (229) 749 
Derivatives:
Net increase (decrease) in fair value 1,098 (268) 830 692 (156) 536 (232) 74 (158)
Reclassifications into earnings:
Net interest income 6 (1) 5 104 (26) 78 165 (40) 125 
Compensation and benefits expense (12) 3 (9) 2 — 2 (27) 7 (20)
Net realized (gains) losses reclassified into earnings (6) 2 (4) 106 (26) 80 138 (33) 105 
Net change 1,092 (266) 826 798 (182) 616 (94) 41 (53)
Employee benefit plans:
Net increase (decrease) in fair value (381) 80 (301) 41 (21) 20 (703) 164 (539)
Net actuarial losses and other reclassified into earnings 261 (63) 198 150 (36) 114 171 (46) 125 
Settlements, curtailments and other 5 — 5 3 (1) 2 11 (2) 9 
Net change (115) 17 (98) 194 (58) 136 (521) 116 (405)
Foreign currency:
Net (decrease) in fair value (251) 199 (52) (13) (52) (65) (8) (195) (203)
Net realized (gains) reclassified into earnings (1) 1 — (110) 89 (21) (149) 98 (51)
Net change (252) 200 (52) (123) 37 (86) (157) (97) (254)
Total other comprehensive income (loss) $6,483 $(1,506)$4,977 $7,438 $(1,860)$5,578 $(5,106)$1,190 $(3,916)
Reclassifications of pretax debt securities, DV A and foreign currency (gains) losses are recorded in other income in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Reclassifications of pretax employee benefit plan costs are recorded in other general operating expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
NOTE 15 Earnings Per Common Share
The calculation of EPS and diluted EPS for 2020, 2019 and 2018 is presented below . For more information on the calculation of
EPS, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles .
(In millions, except per share information) 2020 2019 2018
Earnings per common share  
Net income $ 17,894 $ 27,430 $ 28,147 
Preferred stock dividends (1,421) (1,432) (1,451)
Net income applicable to common shareholders $ 16,473 $ 25,998 $ 26,696 
Average common shares issued and outstanding 8,753.2 9,390.5 10,096.5 
Earnings per common share $ 1.88 $ 2.77 $ 2.64 
Diluted earnings per common share   
Net income applicable to common shareholders $ 16,473 $ 25,998 $ 26,696 
Average common shares issued and outstanding 8,753.2 9,390.5 10,096.5 
Dilutive potential common shares 43.7 52.4 140.4 
Total diluted average common shares issued and outstanding 8,796.9 9,442.9 10,236.9 
Diluted earnings per common share $ 1.87 $ 2.75 $ 2.61 
Includes incremental dilutive shares from RSUs, restricted stock and warrants.(1)
(1)
(2)
(1)
(1)    
(2)    
(1)
(1)
145 Bank of America
For 2020, 2019 and 2018, 62 million average dilutive
potential common shares associated with the Series L preferred
stock were not included  in the diluted share count because the
result would  have been antidilutive under the “if-converted”
method. For 2018, average options to purchase four million
shares of common stock were outstanding but not included in
the computation of EPS because the result would have been
antidilutive under the treasury stock method. For 2019 and 2018,
average warrants to purchase three million  and 136 million
shares of common stock, respectively , were included in the
diluted EPS calculation under the treasury stock method.
Substantially all of these warrants were exercised on or before
their expiration date of January 16, 2019.
NOTE 16 Regulatory Requirements and
Restrictions
The Federal Reserve, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
(OCC) and FDIC (colle ctively , U.S. banking regulators) jointly
establish regulatory capital adequacy rules, including Basel 3,
for U.S. banking organizations. As a financial holding company ,
the Corporation is subject to capital adequacy rules issued bythe Federal Reserve. The Corporation’ s banking  entity affiliates
are subject to capital adequacy rules issued by the OCC.
The Corporation and its primary banking entity affiliate,
BANA, are Advanced approaches institutions under Basel 3. As
Advanced approaches institutions, the Corporation and its
banking entity affiliates are required to report regulatory risk-
based capital ratios and risk-weighted assets under both the
Standardized and Advanced approaches. The approach that
yields the lower ratio is used to assess capital adequacy ,
including under the Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) framework.
The Corpo ration is required to maintain a minimum
supplementary leverage ratio (SLR) of 3.0 percent plus a
leverage buffer of 2.0 percent in order to avoid certain
restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus
payments. The Corporation’ s insured depository institution
subsidiaries are required to maintain a minimum 6.0 percent
SLR to be considered well capitalized under the PCA
framework.
The following table presents capital ratios and related
information in accordance with Basel 3 Standardized and
Advanced approaches as measured at December 31, 2020 and
2019 for the Corporation and BANA.
Regulatory Capital under Basel 3
Bank of America Corporation Bank of America, N.A.
Standardized
Approach Advanced
ApproachesRegulatory
MinimumStandardized
Approach Advanced
ApproachesRegulatory
Minimum
(Dollars in millions, except as noted) December 31, 2020
Risk-based capital metrics:   
Common equity tier 1 capital $176,660 $176,660 $164,593 $164,593 
Tier 1 capital 200,096 200,096 164,593 164,593 
Total capital 237,936 227,685 181,370 170,922 
Risk-weighted assets (in billions) 1,480 1,371 1,221 1,014 
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 11.9 % 12.9 % 9.5 % 13.5 % 16.2 % 7.0 %
Tier 1 capital ratio 13.5 14.6 11.0 13.5 16.2 8.5 
Total capital ratio 16.1 16.6 13.0 14.9 16.9 10.5 
Leverage-based metrics:
Adjusted quarterly average assets (in billions) $ 2,719 $ 2,719 $ 2,143 $ 2,143 
Tier 1 leverage ratio 7.4 % 7.4 % 4.0 7.7 % 7.7 % 5.0 
Supplementary leverage exposure (in billions) $ 2,786 $ 2,525 
Supplementary leverage ratio 7.2 % 5.0 6.5 % 6.0 
 December 31, 2019
Risk-based capital metrics:     
Common equity tier 1 capital $166,760 $166,760 $154,626 $154,626 
Tier 1 capital 188,492 188,492 154,626 154,626 
Total capital 221,230 213,098 166,567 158,665 
Risk-weighted assets (in billions) 1,493 1,447 1,241 991 
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 11.2 % 11.5 % 9.5 % 12.5 % 15.6 % 7.0 %
Tier 1 capital ratio 12.6 13.0 11.0 12.5 15.6 8.5 
Total capital ratio 14.8 14.7 13.0 13.4 16.0 10.5 
Leverage-based metrics:
Adjusted quarterly average assets (in billions) $ 2,374 $ 2,374 $ 1,780 $ 1,780 
Tier 1 leverage ratio 7.9 % 7.9 % 4.0 8.7 % 8.7 % 5.0 
Supplementary leverage exposure (in billions) $ 2,946 $ 2,177 
Supplementary leverage ratio 6.4 % 5.0 7.1 % 6.0 
As of December 31, 2020, capital ratios are calculated using the regulatory capital rule that allows a five-year transition period related to the adoption of CECL.
Derivative exposure amounts are calculated using the standardized approach for measuring counterparty credit risk at December 31, 2020 and the current exposure method at December 31, 2019.
The capit al conservation buffer and global systemically important bank surcharge were 2.5 percent at both December 31, 2020 and 2019. At December 31, 2020, the Corporation's stress capital
buffer of 2.5 percent was applied in place of the capital conservation buffer under the Standardized approach. The countercyclical capital buffer for both periods was zero. The SLR minimum
includes a leverage buf fer of 2.0 percent.
Risk-based capital  regulatory minimums at December 31, 2020 and 2019  are the minimum ratios under Basel 3, including a capital conservation  buffer of 2.5 percent. The regulatory minimums for
the leverage ratios as of both period ends are the percent required to be considered well capitalized under the PCA framework.
Total capital under the Advanced approaches dif fers from the Standardized approach due to dif ferences in the amount permitted in T ier 2 capital related to the qualifying allowance for credit losses.
Reflects total average assets adjusted for certain T ier 1 capital deductions.
Supplementary leverage exposure for the Corporation at December 31, 2020 reflects the temporary exclusion of U.S. T reasury securities and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks.(1, 2)  (1)  (3) (1, 2)  (1)  (4)
(5)
(6)
 (7)
(5)
(6)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
Bank of America 146
The capital adequacy rules issued by the U.S. banking
regulators require institutions to meet the established minimums
outlined in the table above. Failure to meet the minimum
requirements can lead to certain mandatory and discretionary
actions by regulators that could have a material adverse impact
on the Corporation’ s financial position. At December 31, 2020
and 2019, the Corporati on and its banking entity affiliates were
well capitalized.
In response to the uncer tainty arising from the pandemic, the
Federal Reserve required all large banks to suspend share
repurchase programs during the second half of 2020, except for
repurchases to offset shares awarded under equity-based
compensation plans, and to limit common stock dividends to
existing rates that did not exceed the average of the last four
quarters’ net income. In December 2020, the Federal Reserve
announced that beginning in the first quarter of 2021, large
banks would be permitted to pay common stock dividends at
existing rates and to repurchase shares in an amount that, when
combined with dividends  paid, does not exceed the average of
net income over the last four quarters. For more information, see
Note 13 – Shareholders’ Equity .
Other Regulatory Matters
The Federal Reserve requires the Corporation’ s bank
subsidiaries to maintain reserve requirements based on a
percentage of certain deposit liabilities. The average daily
reserve balance requirements, in excess of vault cash,
maintained by the Corporation with the Federal Reserve Bank
were $3.8 billion for 2020, reflecting the Federal Rese rve's
reduction of the reserve requirement to zero in the first quarter
due to COVID-19, and $14.6 billion for 2019. At December 31,
2020 and 2019, the Corporation had cash and cash equivalents
in the amount of $4.9 billion and $6.3 billion, and securities with
a fair value of $16.8 billion and $14.7 billion that were
segregated in compliance with securities regulations. Cash held
on deposit with the Federal Reserve Bank to meet reserve
requirements and cash and cash equivalents  segregated in
compliance with securities regulations are components of
restricted cash. For more information, see Note 10 – Federal
Funds Sold or Purchased, Securities Financing Agreements,
Short-term Borrowings and Restricted Cash . In addition, at
December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Corporation had cash
deposited with clearing organizations of $10.9 billion and $7.6
billion primarily recorded in other assets on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet.
Bank Subsidiary Distributions
The primary sources of funds for cash distributions by the
Corporation to its shareh olders are capital distrib utions received
from its bank subsidiaries, BANA and Bank of America
California, N.A. In 2020, the Corporation received dividends of
$10.3 billion from BANA and $62 millio n from Bank of America
California, N.A.
The amount of dividends that a subsidiary bank may declare
in a calendar year without OCC approval is the subsidiary bank’ s
net profits for that year combined with its retaine d net profits for
the preceding two years . Retained net profits, as defined by the
OCC, consist of net income less dividends declared during the
period. In 2021, BANA can declare and pay dividends of
approximately $ 10.3 billion to the Corporation plus an additional
amount equal to its retained net profits for 2021 up to the dateof any such dividend declaration. Bank of America California,
N.A. can pay dividends of $ 198 million in 2021 plus an additional
amount equal to its retained net profits for 2021 up to the date of
any such dividend declaration.
NOTE 17 Employee Benefit Plans
Pension and Postretirement Plans
The Corpora tion sponso rs a qualified noncontr ibutory trusteed
pension plan (Qualified Pension Plan), a number of
noncontributory nonqualified pension plans, and postretirement
health and life plans that cover eligible employees. Non-U.S.
pension plans sponsored by the Corporation vary based on the
country and local practices.
The Qualified Pension Plan has a balance guarantee feature
for account balances with participant-selected investments,
applied at the time a benefit payment is made from the plan that
effectively provides principal protection for participant balances
transferred and certain compensation credits. The Corporation is
responsible for funding any shortfall on the guarantee feature.
Benefits earned under the Qualified Pension Plan have been
frozen. Thereafter , the cash balance accounts continue to earn
investment credits or interest credits in accordance with the
terms of the plan document.
The Corporation has an annuity contract that guarantees the
payment of benefits vested under a terminated U.S. pension
plan (Other Pension Plan). The Corporation, under a
supplemental agreement, may be responsible for or benefit from
actual experience and investment performance  of the annuity
assets. The Corporation made no contribution under this
agreement in 2020 or 2019. Contributions may be required in
the future under this agreement.
The Corporation’ s noncontributory , nonqualified pension
plans are unfunded and provide supplemental defined pension
benefits to certain eligible employees.
In addition to retirement pension benefits, certain benefits-
eligible employees may become eligible to contin ue participation
as retirees in health care and/or life insurance plans sponsored
by the Corporation. These plans are referred to as the
Postretirement Health and Life Plans.
The Pension  and Postretirement Plans table summarizes the
changes in the fair value of plan assets, changes in the
projected benefit obligation (PBO), the funded status of both the
accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) and the PBO, and the
weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit
obligations for the pension plans and postretirement plans at
December 31, 2020 and 2019. The estimate of the Corporation’ s
PBO associated with these plans considers various actuarial
assumptions, including assumptions for mortality rates and
discount rates. The discount rate assumptions are derived from
a cash flow matching technique that utilizes rates that are based
on Aa-rated corporate bonds with cash flows that match
estimated benefit payme nts of each of the plans . The decreases
in the weighted-average discount rates in 2020 and 2019
resulted in increases to the PBO of approximately $1.9 billion
and $2.2 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019. Significant
gains and losses relate d to changes in the PBO for 2020 and
2019 primarily resulted from changes in the discount rate.
147 Bank of America
Pension and Postretirement
Plans 
Qualified
 Pension PlanNon-U.S.
 Pension PlansNonqualified and Other
 Pension PlansPostretirement
 Health and Life Plans
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
Fair value, January 1 $ 20,275  $ 18,178  $ 2,696  $ 2,461  $ 2,666  $ 2,584  $ 199 $ 252 
Actual return on plan assets 2,468  3,187  379 273 285 228 1 5 
Company contributions — — 23 20 86 91 6 24 
Plan participant contributions — — 1 1 — — 110 103 
Settlements and curtailments — — (61) (42) — — — — 
Benefits paid (967) (1,090 ) (57) (108) (248) (237) (174) (185)
Federal subsidy on benefits paid  n/a n/a  n/a n/a  n/a n/a 1 — 
Foreign currency exchange rate changes  n/a n/a 97 91  n/a n/a  n/a n/a
Fair value, December 31 $ 21,776  $ 20,275  $ 3,078  $ 2,696  $ 2,789  $ 2,666  $ 143 $ 199 
Change in projected benefit obligation         
Projected benefit obligation, January 1 $ 15,361  $ 14,144  $ 2,887  $ 2,589  $ 2,919  $ 2,779  $ 989 $ 928 
Service cost — — 20 17 1 1 5 5 
Interest cost 500 593 49 65 90 113 32 38 
Plan participant contributions — — 1 1 — — 110 103 
Plan amendments — — 3 2 — — — — 
Settlements and curtailments — — (61) (42) — — — — 
Actuarial loss 1,533  1,714  396 288 243 263 43 99 
Benefits paid (967) (1,090 ) (57) (108) (248) (237) (173) (185)
Federal subsidy on benefits paid  n/a n/a  n/a n/a  n/a n/a 1 — 
Foreign currency exchange rate changes  n/a n/a 102 75  n/a n/a — 1 
Projected benefit obligation, December 31 $ 16,427  $ 15,361  $ 3,340  $ 2,887  $ 3,005  $ 2,919  $ 1,007  $ 989 
Amounts recognized on Consolidated Balance Sheet
Other assets $ 5,349  $ 4,914  $ 428 $ 364 $ 812 $ 733 $ — $ — 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities — — (690) (555) (1,028 ) (986) (864) (790)
Net amount recognized, December 31 $ 5,349  $ 4,914  $ (262)$ (191) $ (216)$ (253) $ (864)$ (790)
Funded status, December 31         
Accumulated benefit obligation $ 16,427  $ 15,361  $ 3,253  $ 2,841  $ 3,005  $ 2,919   n/a n/a
Overfunded (unfunded) status of ABO 5,349  4,914  (175) (145) (216) (253)  n/a n/a
Provision for future salaries — — 87 46 — —  n/a n/a
Projected benefit obligation 16,427  15,361  3,340  2,887  3,005  2,919  $ 1,007  $ 989 
Weighted-average assumptions, December 31         
Discount rate 2.57 % 3.32 % 1.37 % 1.81 % 2.33 % 3.20 % 2.48 % 3.27 %
Rate of compensation increase n/a n/a 4.11 4.10 4.00 4.00  n/a n/a
Interest-crediting rate 5.02 % 5.06 % 1.58 1.53 4.49 4.52  n/a n/a
The measurement date for all of the above plans was December 31 of each year reported.
n/a = not applicable
The Corporation’ s estimate of its contributions to be made to
the Non-U.S. Pension Plans, Nonqualified and Other Pension
Plans, and Postretirement Health and Life Plans in 2021 is $29
million, $93 million and $14 million, respectively . The
Corporation does not expect to make a contribution to the
Qualified Pension Plan in 2021. It is the policy of the Corporation
to fund no less than the minimum funding amountrequired by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974 (ERISA).
Pension Plans with ABO and PBO in excess of plan assets as
of Decembe r 31, 2020 and 2019 are present ed in the table
below . For these plans, funding strategies vary due to legal
requirements and local practices.
Plans with ABO and PBO in Excess of Plan Assets
Non-U.S.
 Pension PlansNonqualified
 and Other
 Pension Plans
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2020 2019
PBO $ 900 $ 744 $ 1,028 $ 988 
ABO 841 720 1,028 988 
Fair value of plan assets 211 191 1 1 (1)
(1)
Bank of America 148
Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost
 Qualified Pension Plan Non-U.S. Pension Plans
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Components of net periodic benefit cost (income)
Service cost $ — $ — $ — $ 20 $ 17 $ 19 
Interest cost 500 593 563 49 65 65 
Expected return on plan assets (1,154) (1,088) (1,136) (66) (99) (126)
Amortization of net actuarial loss 173 135 147 9 6 10 
Other — — — 8 4 12 
Net periodic benefit cost (income) $ (481)$ (360) $ (426) $ 20 $ (7) $ (20)
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net cost for years ended
December 31       
Discount rate 3.32 % 4.32 % 3.68 % 1.81 % 2.60 % 2.39 %
Expected return on plan assets 6.00 6.00 6.00 2.57 4.13 4.37 
Rate of compensation increase  n/a n/a n/a 4.10 4.49 4.31 
Nonqualified and
 Other Pension PlansPostretirement Health
 and Life Plans
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Components of net periodic benefit cost (income)
Service cost $ 1 $ 1 $ 1 $ 5 $ 5 $ 6 
Interest cost 90 113 105 32 38 36 
Expected return on plan assets (71) (95) (84) (4) (5) (6)
Amortization of net actuarial loss (gain) 50 34 43 29 (24) (27)
Other — — — (2) (2) (3)
Net periodic benefit cost (income) $ 70 $ 53 $ 65 $ 60 $ 12 $ 6 
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net cost for years ended
December 31       
Discount rate 3.20 % 4.26 % 3.58 % 3.27 % 4.25 % 3.58 %
Expected return on plan assets 2.77 3.73 3.19 2.00 2.00 2.00 
Rate of compensation increase 4.00 4.00 4.00   n/a n/a n/a
n/a = not applicable
The asset valuation method used to calculate the expected
return on plan assets component of net periodic  benefit cost for
the Qualified  Pension Plan recognizes 60 percent of the prior
year’s market gains or losses at the next measurement date with
the remaining 40 percent spread equally over the subsequent
four years.
Gains and losses for all benefit plans except postretirement
health care are recognized in accordance with the standard
amortization provisions of the applicable accounting guidance.
Net periodi c postretirement health and life expense was
determined using the “projected unit credit” actuarial method.
For the Postretirement Health and Life Plans, 50 percent of the
unrecognized gain or loss at the beginning of the year (or at
subsequent remeasurem ent) is recognized on a level basis
during the year .Assumed health care cost trend rates affect the
postretirement benefit obligation and benefit cost reported for
the Postretirement Health and Life Plans. The assumed health
care cost trend rate used to measure the expected cost of
benefits covered by the Postretirement Health and Life Plans is
6.25 percent for 2021, reducing in steps to 5.00 percent in 2026
and later years.
The Corpo ration’ s net periodic benefit cost (income)
recognized for the plans is sensitive to the discount rate and
expected return on plan assets. For the Qualified Pension Plan,
Non-U.S. Pension Plans , Nonqualified and Other Pension Plans,
and Postretirement Health and Life Plans, a 25 bp decline in
discount rates and expe cted return on assets would not have
had a significant impact on the net periodic benefit cost for 2020.
Pretax Amounts included in Accumulated OCI
and OCI
 Qualified
 Pension PlanNon-U.S.
 Pension PlansNonqualified
 and Other
 Pension PlansPostretirement
 Health and
 Life Plans Total
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
Net actuarial loss (gain) $3,912 $3,865 $628 $559 $987 $1,008 $ 66 $ 48 $5,593 $5,480 
Prior service cost (credits) — — 18 18 — — (4) (6) 14 12 
Amounts recognized in accumulated OCI $3,912 $3,865 $646 $577 $987 $1,008 $ 62 $ 42 $5,607 $5,492 
Current year actuarial loss (gain) $ 219 $(385)$ 79 $110 $ 29 $ 130 $ 47 $ 99 $ 374 $ (46)
Amortization of actuarial gain (loss) and
prior service cost (173) (135) (12) (7) (50) (34) (27) 26 (262) (150)
Current year prior service cost (credit) — — 3 2 — — — — 3 2 
Amounts recognized in OCI $ 46 $(520)$ 70 $105 $ (21)$ 96 $ 20 $ 125 $ 115 $(194)
149 Bank of America
Plan Assets
The Qualified Pension Plan has been established as a
retirement vehicle for participants, and trusts have been
established to secure benefits promised unde r the Qualified
Pension Plan. The Corporation’ s policy is to invest the trust
assets in a prudent manner for the exclus ive purpose of
providing benefits to participants and defraying reasonable
expenses of administration. The Corporatio n’s investment
strategy is designed to provide a total return that, over the long
term, increa ses the ratio of assets to liabilities. The strategy
attempts to maximize the investment return on assets at a level
of risk deemed appropriate by the Corporation while complying
with ERISA and any applicable regulations and laws. The
investment strategy utilizes asset allocation as a principal
determinant for establishing the risk/return profile of the assets.
Asset alloca tion ranges  are established, perio dically reviewed
and adjusted as funding levels and liability characteristics
change. Active and passive investment manage rs are employed
to help enhance the risk/return profile of the assets. An
additional aspect of the investment strategy used to minimize
risk (part of the asset allocation plan) include s matching the
exposure of participant-selected investment measures.
The assets of the Non-U.S. Pension Plans are primarily
attributable to a U.K. pension plan. This U.K. pension plan’ s
assets are invested prudently so that the benefits promised to
members are provided with consideration given to the nature
and the duration of the plans' liabilities. The selected assetallocation strategy is designed to achieve a higher return than
the lowest risk strategy .
The expected rate of return on plan assets assumption was
developed through analysis of historical market returns,
historical asset class volatility and correlations,  current market
conditions, anticipated future asset allocations, the funds’ past
experience and expectations on potential future market returns.
The expected return on plan assets assumption is determined
using the calculated market-related value for the Qualified
Pension Plan and the Other Pension Plan and the fair value for
the Non-U.S. Pension Plans and Postretirement Health and Life
Plans. The expected return on plan asse ts assumption
represents a long-term average view of the performance of the
assets in the Qualified Pension Plan, the Non-U.S. Pension
Plans, the Other Pension Plan, and Postretirement Health and
Life Plans, a return that may or may not be achieved during any
one calenda r year. The Other Pension Plan is invested solely in
an annuity contract, which is primarily invested in fixed-income
securities structured such that asset maturities match the
duration of the plan’ s obligations.
The target allocations for 2021 by asset category for the
Qualified Pension Plan, Non-U.S. Pension Plans, and
Nonqualified and Other Pension Plans are presented in the
following table. Equity securities for the Qualified Pension Plan
include common stock of the Corporation in the amounts of $ 274
million ( 1.26 percent of total plan assets) and $315 million (1.55
percent of total plan assets) at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
2021 Target Allocation
Percentage
Asset CategoryQualified
 Pension PlanNon-U.S.
 Pension PlansNonqualified
 and Other
 Pension Plans
Equity securities 15 - 50% 0 - 25% 0 - 5%
Debt securities 45 - 80% 40 - 70% 95 - 100%
Real estate 0 - 10% 0 - 15% 0 - 5%
Other 0 - 5% 10 - 40% 0 - 5%
Fair Value Measurements
For more information on fair value measurements, including descriptions of Level 1, 2 and 3 of the fair value hierarchy and the
valuation methods employed by the Corporation , see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  and Note 20 – Fair
Value Measurements . Combined plan investment assets measured at fair value by level and in total at December 31, 2020 and 2019
are summarized in the Fair V alue Measurements table.
Bank of America 150
Fair Value Measurements
 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Cash and short-term investments     
Money market and interest-bearing cash $ 1,380 $ — $ — $ 1,380 $ 1,426 $ — $ — $ 1,426 
Cash and cash equivalent commingled/mutual
funds — 383 — 383 — 250 — 250 
Fixed income        
U.S. government and agency securities 4,590 1,238 7 5,835 4,403 890 8 5,301 
Corporate debt securities — 5,021 — 5,021 — 3,676 — 3,676 
Asset-backed securities — 1,967 — 1,967 — 2,684 — 2,684 
Non-U.S. debt securities 1,021 1,122 — 2,143 748 1,015 — 1,763 
Fixed income commingled/mutual funds 1,224 1,319 — 2,543 804 1,439 — 2,243 
Equity        
Common and preferred equity securities 4,438 — — 4,438 4,655 — — 4,655 
Equity commingled/mutual funds 134 1,542 — 1,676 147 1,355 — 1,502 
Public real estate investment trusts 73 — — 73 91 — — 91 
Real estate        
Real estate commingled/mutual funds — 20 943 963 — 18 927 945 
Limited partnerships — 184 83 267 — 173 90 263 
Other investments 5 401 691 1,097 11 390 636 1,037 
Total plan investment assets, at fair value $12,865 $13,197 $ 1,724 $27,786 $12,285 $ 11,890 $ 1,661 $ 25,836 
Other investments include commodity and balanced funds of $246 million and $233 million, insurance annuity contracts  of $664 million and $614 million and other various investments of $187
million and $ 190 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
The Level 3 Fair Value Measurements table presents a reconciliation of all plan investment assets measured at fair value using
significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) during 2020, 2019 and 2018.
Level 3 Fair Value Measurements
 Balance
 January 1Actual Return on
 Plan Assets Still
 Held at the
 Reporting DatePurchases, Sales
and SettlementsBalance
 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020
Fixed income     
U.S. government and agency securities $ 8 $ — $ (1)$ 7 
Real estate  
Real estate commingled/mutual funds 927 (4) 20 943 
Limited partnerships 90 2 (9) 83 
Other investments 636 6 49 691 
Total $ 1,661 $ 4 $ 59 $ 1,724 
 2019
Fixed income     
U.S. government and agency securities $ 9 $ — $ (1)$ 8 
Real estate  
Private real estate 5 — (5) — 
Real estate commingled/mutual funds 885 33 9 927 
Limited partnerships 82 — 8 90 
Other investments 588 6 42 636 
Total $ 1,569 $ 39 $ 53 $ 1,661 
2018
Fixed income
U.S. government and agency securities $ 9 $ — $ — $ 9 
Real estate   
Private real estate 93 (7) (81) 5 
Real estate commingled/mutual funds 831 52 2 885 
Limited partnerships 85 (12) 9 82 
Other investments 74 — 514 588 
Total $ 1,092 $ 33 $ 444 $ 1,569 
Projected Benefit Payments
Benefit paym ents projec ted to be made from the Qualified Pension Plan, Non-U.S. Pension Plans, Nonqualified and Other Pension
Plans, and Postretirement Health and Life Plans are presented in the table below .(1)
(1)
151 Bank of America
Projected Benefit Payments
(Dollars in millions)Qualified
Pension Plan Non-U.S.
Pension Plans Nonqualified
and Other
Pension Plans Postretirement
Health and
Life Plans 
2021 $ 856 $ 127 $ 244 $ 79 
2022 943 134 245 76 
2023 939 143 229 74 
2024 943 135 224 70 
2025 934 140 221 67 
2026 - 2030 4,474 675 977 290 
Benefit payments expected to be made from the plan’ s assets.
Benefit payments expected to be made from a combination of the plans’ and the Corporation’ s assets.
Benefit payments (net of retiree contributions) expected to be made from a combination of the plans’ and the Corporation’ s assets.
Defined Contribution Plans
The Corpora tion mainta ins qualified and non-q ualified defined
contribution retirement  plans. The Corporation recorded
expense of $ 1.2 billion, $ 1.0 billion and $ 1.0 billion in 2020, 2019
and 2018 related to the qualified defined contri bution plans. At
both December 31, 2020 and 2019, 189 million shares of the
Corporation’ s common stock were held by these plans.
Payments to the plans for dividends on common stock were
$138 million, $133 million and $115 million in 2020, 2019 and
2018, respectively .
Certain non-U.S. employees are covered under defined
contribution pension plans that are separately administered in
accordance with local laws.
NOTE 18  Stock-based Compensation Plans
The Corporation administers a number of equity compensation
plans, with awards being granted predominantly from the Bank
of America Key Employe e Equity Plan (KEEP). Under this plan,
600 million shares of the Corporation’ s common stock are
authorized to be used for grants of awards.
During 2020 and 2019, the Corporation granted 86 million
and 94 million RSU awards to certain employees under the
KEEP . These RSUs were authorized to settle predominantly in
shares of common stock of the Corporation. Certain RSUs will
be settled in cash or contain settlement provisi ons that subject
these award s to variable accounting whereby compensation
expense is adjusted to fair value based on changes in the share
price of the Corporation ’s common stock up to the settlement
date. Of the RSUs granted in 2020 and 2019, 61 million  and 71
million will vest predominantly over three years  with most vesting
occurring in one-third increments on each of the first three
anniversaries of the grant date provided that the employee
remains continuously employed with the Corporation during that
time, and will be expens ed ratably over the vesting period, net of
estimated forfeitures, for non-retirement eligible employees
based on the grant-dat e fair value of the shares. For RSUs
granted to employees who are retirement eligible, the awards
are deemed  authorized as of the beginning of the year
preceding the grant date when the incentive award plans are
generally approved. As a result, the estimated value is expensed
ratably over the year preceding the grant date.  Additionally , 25
million and 23 million of the RSUs granted in 2020 and 2019 will
vest predominantly over four years  with most vesting occurring
in one-fourth increments on each of the first four anniversaries of
the grant date provided that the employee remains continuously
employed with the Corporation during that time, and will be
expensed ratably over the vesting period, net of estimated
forfeitures, based on the grant-date fair value of the shares.
The compensation cost for the stock-based plans was $2.1
billion, $2.1 billion and $1.8 billion, and the related income tax
benefit was $ 505 million, $ 511 million and $ 433 million for2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively . At December 31, 2020, there
was an estimated $2.0 billion of total unrecognized
compensation cost related to certain share-based compensation
awards that is expected to be recognized over a period of up to
four years , with a weighted-average period of 2.2 years.
Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units
The total fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units
vested in 2020, 2019 and 2018 was $2.3 billion, $2.6 billion and
$2.3 billion, respectively . The table below presents the status at
December 31, 2020 of the share-settled restricted stock and
restricted stock units and changes during 2020.
 Stock-settled Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock
Units
Shares/UnitsWeighted-
 average Grant
Date Fair Value
Outstanding at January 1, 2020 157,909,315 $ 27.93 
Granted 83,604,782 33.01 
Vested (68,578,284) 27.38 
Canceled (4,982,584) 30.88 
Outstanding at December 31, 2020 167,953,229 30.60 
Cash-settled Restricted Units
At December 31, 2020, approximately two million cash-settled
restricted units remain outstanding. In 2020, 2019 and 2018, the
amount of cash paid to settle the RSUs that vested was $81
million, $ 84 million and $ 1.3 billion, respectively .
NOTE 19 Income T axes
The components of income tax expense for 2020, 2019 and
2018 are presented in the table below .
Income Tax Expense
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Current income tax expense    
U.S. federal $ 1,092 $ 1,136 $ 816 
U.S. state and local 1,076 901 1,377 
Non-U.S. 670 852 1,203 
Total current expense 2,838 2,889 3,396 
Deferred income tax expense    
U.S. federal (799) 2,001 2,579 
U.S. state and local (233) 223 240 
Non-U.S. (705) 211 222 
Total deferred expense (1,737) 2,435 3,041 
Total income tax expense$ 1,101 $ 5,324 $ 6,437 
Total income  tax expense does not reflect the tax effects of
items that are included in OCI each period. For more(1) (2) (2) (3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
Bank of America 152
information, see Note 14 – Accumulated  Other Comprehensive
Income (Loss) . Other tax effects included in OCI each period
resulted in an expense of $1.5 billion and $1.9 billion in 2020
and 2019 and a benefit of $ 1.2 billion in 2018.
Income tax expense for 2020, 2019 and 2018 varied from the
amount computed by applying the statutory income tax rate to
income before income taxes. The Corporation’ s federalstatutory tax rate was 21 percent for 2020, 2019 and 2018. A
reconciliation of the expected U.S. federal income tax expense,
calculated by applying the federal statutory tax rate, to the
Corporation’ s actual income tax expense, and the effective tax
rates for 2020, 2019 and 2018 are presented in the table below .
Reconciliation of Income Tax Expense
 Amount Percent Amount Percent Amount Percent
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Expected U.S. federal income tax expense $ 3,989 21.0 %$ 6,878 21.0 %$ 7,263 21.0 %
Increase (decrease) in taxes resulting from:
State tax expense, net of federal benefit 728 3.8 1,283 3.9 1,367 4.0 
Affordable housing/energy/other credits (2,869) (15.1) (2,365) (7.2) (1,888) (5.5)
Tax law changes (699) (3.7) — — — — 
Tax-exempt income, including dividends (346) (1.8) (433) (1.3) (413) (1.2)
Share-based compensation (129) (0.7) (225) (0.7) (257) (0.7)
Changes in prior-period UTBs, including interest (41) (0.2) (613) (1.9) 144 0.4 
Nondeductible expenses 324 1.7 290 0.9 302 0.9 
Rate differential on non-U.S. earnings 218 1.1 504 1.5 98 0.3 
Other (74) (0.3) 5 0.1 (179) (0.6)
Total income tax expense (benefit) $ 1,101 5.8 %$ 5,324 16.3 %$ 6,437 18.6 %
The reconciliation of the beginning unrecognized tax benefits
(UTB) balance to the ending balance is presented in the
following table.
Reconciliation of the Change in Unrecognized Tax
Benefits
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Balance, January 1 $ 1,175 $ 2,197 $ 1,773 
Increases related to positions
taken during the current year 238 238 395 
Increases related to positions
taken during prior years 99 401 406 
Decreases related to positions
taken during prior years (172) (1,102) (371)
Settlements — (541) (6)
Expiration of statute of limitations — (18) — 
Balance, December 31 $ 1,340 $ 1,175 $ 2,197 
The sum of the positions taken during prior years differs from the $(41) million, $(613) million
and $ 144 million in the Reconciliation of Income Tax Expense table due to tempo rary items,
state items and jurisdictional offsets , as well as the inclusion of interest  in the Reconciliation
of Income T ax Expense table.
At December 31, 2020,  2019 and 2018, the balance of the
Corporation’ s UTBs which would, if recognized, affect the
Corporation’ s effective tax rate was $976 million, $814 million
and $1.6 billion, respectively . Included in the UTB balance are
some items the recognition of which would not affect the
effective tax rate, such as the tax effect of certain temporary
differences, the portion of gross state UTBs that would be offset
by the tax benefit of the associated federal deduction and the
portion of gross non-U .S. UTBs that would be offset by tax
reductions in other jurisdictions.It is reasona bly possible  that the UTB balance may decrease
by as much as $166 million during the next 12 months, since
resolved items will be removed from the balanc e whether their
resolution results in payment or recognition.
The Corporation recognized interest expense of $9 million in
2020, an interest bene fit of $19 million in 2019 and interest
expense of $43 million in 2018. At December 31, 2020 and
2019, the Corporation’ s accrual for interest and penalties that
related to income taxes,  net of taxes and remittances, was $130
million and $ 147 million.
The Corporation files income tax returns in more than 100
state and non-U.S. jurisdictions each year. The IRS and other
tax authorities in countries and states in which the Corporation
has signific ant busine ss operations examine tax returns
periodically (continuously in some jurisdictions). The following
table summ arizes the status of examinations by major
jurisdiction for the Corporation and various subsidiaries at
December 31, 2020.
Tax Examination Status
Years under
Examination Status at
December 31
2020
United States 2017-2020 Field Examination
California 2012-2017 Field Examination
New York 2016-2018 Field Examination
United Kingdom 2018 Field Examination
All tax years subsequent to the years shown remain subject to examination.
Field examination for tax year 2019 to begin in 2021.
Significant components of the Corporation’ s net deferred tax
assets and liabilities at December 31, 2020 and 2019 are
presented in the following table. (1)
(1)
(1)    
(1)
(2)
(1)    
(2) 
153 Bank of America
Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities
 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Deferred tax assets   
Net operating loss carryforwards $ 7,717 $ 7,417 
Allowance for credit losses 4,701 2,354 
Security, loan and debt valuations 2,571 1,860 
Lease liability 2,400 2,321 
Employee compensation and retirement benefits 1,582 1,622 
Accrued expenses 1,481 1,719 
Credit carryforwards 484 183 
Other 1,412 1,203 
Gross deferred tax assets 22,348 18,679 
Valuation allowance (2,346) (1,989)
Total deferred tax assets, net of valuation
 allowance 20,002 16,690 
  
Deferred tax liabilities
Equipment lease financing 3,101 2,933 
Right-to-use asset 2,296 2,246 
Fixed assets 1,957 1,505 
ESG-related tax credit investments 1,930 1,577 
Available-for-sale securities
 1,701 100 
Other 1,570 1,885 
Gross deferred tax liabilities 12,555 10,246 
Net deferred tax assets $ 7,447 $ 6,444 
On January 1, 2020, the Corporation adopted the CECL
accounting standard. The transition adjustment included a tax
benefit of $760 million in retained earnings, which increased
deferred tax assets by a corresponding amount.
The table below summarizes the deferred tax assets and
related valuation allowa nces recognized for the net operating
loss (NOL) and tax credit carryforwards at December 31, 2020.
Net Operating Loss and Tax Credit Carryforward
Deferred Tax Assets
(Dollars in millions)Deferred
 Tax AssetValuation
 AllowanceNet
 Deferred
 Tax AssetFirst Year
 Expiring
Net operating losses -
U.S. $ 36 $ — $ 36 After 2028
Net operating losses -
U.K. 5,896 — 5,896 None
Net operating losses -
other non-U.S. 506 (441) 65 Various
Net operating losses -
U.S. states 1,279 (579) 700 Various
Foreign tax credits 484 (484) — After 2028
Represents U.K. broker-dealer net operating losses that may be carried forward indefinitely .
The net operating losses and related valuation allowances for U.S. states before considering
the benefit of federal deductions were $ 1.6 billion and $ 733 million.
Management concluded  that no valua tion allowance was
necessary to reduce the deferred tax assets related to the U.K.
NOL carryforwards and U.S. federal and certain state NOL
carryforwards since estimated future taxable income will be
sufficient to utilize these assets prior to their expiration. The
majority of the Corporation’ s U.K. net deferred tax assets, which
consist primarily of NOLs, are expected to be realized by certain
subsidiaries over an extended number of years . Management’ s
conclusion is supported by financial results, profit forecasts for
the relevant  entities and the indefinite period to carry forward
NOLs. However , a material change in those estimates could
lead management to reassess such valuation allowance
conclusions.
At Decembe r 31, 2020, U.S. federal income taxes had not
been provided on approximately $ 5.0 billion of temporarydifferences associated with investments in non-U .S. subsidiaries
that are essentially permanent in duration. If the Corporation
were to record the associated deferred tax liability, the amount
would be approximately $ 1.0 billion.
NOTE 20 Fair V alue Measurements
Under applicable accounting standards, fair value is defined as
the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid
to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most
advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly
transaction between market participants on the measurement
date. The Corporation determines the fair values of its financial
instruments under applicable accounting standards that require
an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize
the use of unobservable inputs. The Corporation categorizes its
financial instruments into three levels based on the established
fair value hierarchy and conducts a review of fair value hierarchy
classifications on a quarterly basis. Transfers into or out of fair
value hierarchy classifications are made if the significant inputs
used in the financial models measuring the fair values of the
assets and liabilities become unobservable or observable in the
current marketplace. For more information regarding the fair
value hierarchy and how the Corporation measures fair value,
see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles . The
Corporation accounts for certain financial instrum ents under the
fair value option. For more information, see Note 21 – Fair Value
Option .
Valuation Techniques
The following sections outline the valuation methodologies for
the Corporation’ s assets and liabilities. While the Corporation
believes its valuation methods are appropriate  and consistent
with other market participants, the use of different
methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of
certain financial instruments could result in a different estimate
of fair value at the reporting date.
During 2020, there were no significant changes to valuation
approaches or techniques that had, or are expe cted to have, a
material impact on the Corporation’ s consolidated financial
position or results of operations.
Trading Account Assets and Liabilities and Debt
Securities
The fair values of trading account assets and liabilities are
primarily based on actively traded markets where prices are
based on either direct market quotes or observed transactions.
The fair values of debt securities are generally based on quoted
market prices or market  prices for similar assets. Liquidity is a
significant factor in the determination of the fair values of trading
account assets and liabilities and debt securities. Market price
quotes may not be readily available for some positions such as
positions within a market sector where trading activity has
slowed significantly or ceased. Some of these instruments are
valued using  a discounted cash flow model, which estimates the
fair value of the securities using internal credit risk, and interest
rate and prepayment risk models that incorporate management’ s
best estimat e of current key assumptions such as default rates,
loss severity and prepayment rates. Principal and interest cash
flows are discounted using an observable discount rate for
similar instru ments with adjustments that management believes
a market participant would consider in determining fair value for
the specific security . Other instruments are valued using a net
asset value approach which considers the value of the
underlying securities. Underlying assets are valued using
external pricing services, where available, or matrix pricing(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
Bank of America 154
based on the vintages and ratings. Situations of illiquidity
generally are triggered by the market’ s perception of credit
uncertainty regarding a single company or a specific market
sector . In these instanc es, fair value is determined based on
limited available market information and other factors, principally
from reviewing the issuer ’s financial statements and changes in
credit ratings made by one or more rating agencies.
Derivative Assets and Liabilities
The fair values of deriv ative assets and liabiliti es traded in the
OTC marke t are determined using quantitati ve models that
utilize multiple market inputs including interest rates, prices and
indices to generate continuous yield or pricing curves and
volatility factors to value the position. The majority of market
inputs are actively quoted and can be validated through external
sources, including brokers, market transactions and third-party
pricing services. When third-party pricing services are used, the
methods and assumptions are reviewed by the Corporation.
Estimation risk is greater for derivative asset and liability
positions that are either option-based or have longer maturity
dates where observable market inputs are less readily available,
or are unobservable, in which case, quantitative-based
extrapolations of rate, price or index scenarios are used in
determining fair values. The fair values of derivative assets and
liabilities include adjustments for market liquidity , counterparty
credit quality and other instrument-specific factors, where
appropriate. In addition, the Corporation incorp orates within its
fair value measureme nts of OTC derivatives a valuation
adjustment to reflect the credit risk associated with the net
position. Positions are netted by counterparty , and fair value for
net long exposures is adjusted for counterparty credit risk while
the fair value for net short exposures is adjusted for the
Corporation’ s own credit risk. The Corporation also incorporates
FVA within its fair value measurements to includ e funding costs
on uncollateralized derivatives and derivativ es where the
Corporation is not perm itted to use the collateral it receives. An
estimate of severity of loss is also used in the determination of
fair value, primarily based on market data.
Loans and Loan Commitments
The fair values of loans  and loan commitment s are based on
market prices, where available, or discounted cash flow
analyses using market-based credit spreads of comparable debt
instruments or credit derivatives of the specific borrower or
comparable borrowers.  Results of discoun ted cash flow
analyses may be adjusted, as appropriate, to reflect other
market conditions or the perceived credit risk of the borrower .
Mortgage Servicing Rights
The fair values of MSRs are primarily determined using an
option-adjusted spread valuation approach, which factors in
prepayment risk to determine the fair value of MSRs. This
approach consists of projecting servicing cash flows under
multiple interest rate scenarios and discounting these cash flows
using risk-adjusted discount rates.Loans Held-for-sale
The fair values of LHFS are based on quoted market prices,
where available, or are determined by discou nting estimated
cash flows using interes t rates approximating the Corporation’ s
current origination rates  for similar loans adjusted to reflect the
inherent credit risk. The borrower-specific credit risk is
embedded within the quoted market prices or is implied by
considering loan performance when selecting comparables.
Short-term Borrowings and Long-term Debt
The Corpora tion issues structured liabilities that have coupons
or repayment terms linked to the performance of debt or equity
securities, interest rates, indices, currencies or commodities.
The fair values of these structured liabilities are estimated using
quantitative models for the combined derivative and debt
portions of the notes. These models incorporate observable and,
in some instances, unobservable inputs including security
prices, interest rate yield curves, option volatility , currency ,
commodity or equity rates and correlations among these inputs.
The Corporation also considers the impact of its own credit
spread in determining the discount rate used  to value these
liabilities. The credit spread is determined by reference to
observable spreads in the secondary bond market.
Securities Financing Agreements
The fair values of certain reverse repurchase agreements,
repurchase agreements  and securities borrowed transactions
are determined using quantitative models, including discounted
cash flow models that require the use of multiple market inputs
including interest rates and spreads to generate continuous yield
or pricing curves, and volatility factors. The majority of market
inputs are actively quoted and can be validated through external
sources, including brokers, market transactions and third-party
pricing services.
Deposits
The fair values of deposits are determined using quantitative
models, including discounted cash flow models that require the
use of multiple market inputs including interest rates and
spreads to generate continuous yield or pricing curves, and
volatility factors. The majority of market inputs are actively
quoted and can be validated through external sources, including
brokers, market transac tions and third-party pricing services.
The Corporation considers the impact of its own credit spread in
the valuation  of these liabilities. The credit risk is determined by
reference to observable credit spreads in the secondary cash
market.
Asset-backed Secured Financings
The fair values of asset-backed secured financings are based on
external broker bids, where available, or are determined by
discounting estimated cash flows using interest rates
approximating the Corporation’ s current origination rates for
similar loans adjusted to reflect the inherent credit risk.
 
155 Bank of America
Recurring Fair Value
Assets and liabilities carried at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2020 and 2019 , including financial instruments that
the Corporation accounts for under the fair value option, are summarized in the following tables.
December 31, 2020
 Fair Value Measurements
(Dollars in millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3Netting
Adjustments Assets/Liabilities
at Fair Value
Assets      
Time deposits placed and other short-term investments $ 1,649 $ — $ — $ — $ 1,649 
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased
under agreements to resell — 108,856 — — 108,856 
Trading account assets:      
U.S. Treasury and agency securities 45,219 3,051 — — 48,270 
Corporate securities, trading loans and other — 22,817 1,359 — 24,176 
Equity securities 36,372 31,372 227 — 67,971 
Non-U.S. sovereign debt 5,753 20,884 354 — 26,991 
Mortgage trading loans, MBS and ABS:
U.S. government-sponsored agency guaranteed — 21,566 75 — 21,641 
Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS — 8,440 1,365 — 9,805 
Total trading account assets 87,344 108,130 3,380 — 198,854 
Derivative assets 15,624 416,175 2,751 (387,371) 47,179 
AFS debt securities:      
U.S. Treasury and agency securities 115,266 1,114 — — 116,380 
Mortgage-backed securities:      
Agency — 61,849 — — 61,849 
Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations — 5,260 — — 5,260 
Non-agency residential — 631 378 — 1,009 
Commercial — 16,491 — — 16,491 
Non-U.S. securities — 13,999 18 — 14,017 
Other taxable securities — 2,640 71 — 2,711 
Tax-exempt securities — 16,598 176 — 16,774 
Total AFS debt securities 115,266 118,582 643 — 234,491 
Other debt securities carried at fair value:
U.S. Treasury and agency securities 93 — — — 93 
Non-agency residential MBS — 506 267 — 773 
Non-U.S. and other securities 2,619 8,625 — — 11,244 
Total other debt securities carried at fair value 2,712 9,131 267 — 12,110 
Loans and leases — 5,964 717 — 6,681 
Loans held-for-sale — 1,349 236 — 1,585 
Other assets 9,898 3,850 1,970 — 15,718 
Total assets $ 232,493 $ 772,037 $ 9,964 $ (387,371)$ 627,123 
Liabilities      
Interest-bearing deposits in U.S. offices $ — $ 481 $ — $ — $ 481 
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under
agreements to repurchase — 135,391 — — 135,391 
Trading account liabilities:     
U.S. Treasury and agency securities 9,425 139 — — 9,564 
Equity securities 38,189 4,235 — — 42,424 
Non-U.S. sovereign debt 5,853 8,043 — — 13,896 
Corporate securities and other — 5,420 16 — 5,436 
Total trading account liabilities 53,467 17,837 16 — 71,320 
Derivative liabilities 14,907 412,881 6,219 (388,481) 45,526 
Short-term borrowings — 5,874 — — 5,874 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 12,297 4,014 — — 16,311 
Long-term debt — 31,036 1,164 — 32,200 
Total liabilities $ 80,671 $ 607,514 $ 7,399 $ (388,481)$ 307,103 
Amounts represent the impact of legally enforceable master netting agreements and also cash collateral held or placed with the same counterparties.
Includes $ 22.2 billion of GSE obligations.
Includes securities  with a fair value of $16.8 billion that were segregated in compliance with securities regulations or deposited with clearing organizations. This amount is included in the
parenthetical disclosure on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Trading account assets also includes precious metal inventories of $576 million that are accounted for at the lower of cost or net
realizable value, which is the current selling price less any costs to sell.
Includes MSRs of $ 1.0 billion  which are classified as Level 3 assets.
Total recurring Level 3 assets were 0.35 percent of total consolidated assets, and total recurring Level 3 liabilities were 0.29 percent of total consolidated liabilities.(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
 (5)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
Bank of America 156
December 31, 2019
Fair Value Measurements
(Dollars in millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3Netting
Adjustments Assets/Liabilities at
Fair Value
Assets      
Time deposits placed and other short-term investments $ 1,000 $ — $ — $ — $ 1,000 
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased
under agreements to resell — 50,364 — — 50,364 
Trading account assets:      
U.S. Treasury and agency securities 49,517 4,157 — — 53,674 
Corporate securities, trading loans and other — 25,226 1,507 — 26,733 
Equity securities 53,597 32,619 239 — 86,455 
Non-U.S. sovereign debt 3,965 23,854 482 — 28,301 
Mortgage trading loans, MBS and ABS:
U.S. government-sponsored agency guaranteed — 24,324 — — 24,324 
Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS — 8,786 1,553 — 10,339 
Total trading account assets 107,079 118,966 3,781 — 229,826 
Derivative assets 14,079 328,442 2,226 (304,262) 40,485 
AFS debt securities:      
U.S. Treasury and agency securities 67,332 1,196 — — 68,528 
Mortgage-backed securities:      
Agency — 122,528 — — 122,528 
Agency-collateralized mortgage obligations — 4,641 — — 4,641 
Non-agency residential — 653 424 — 1,077 
Commercial — 15,021 — — 15,021 
Non-U.S. securities — 11,989 2 — 11,991 
Other taxable securities — 3,876 65 — 3,941 
Tax-exempt securities — 17,804 108 — 17,912 
Total AFS debt securities 67,332 177,708 599 — 245,639 
Other debt securities carried at fair value:
U.S. Treasury and agency securities 3 — — — 3 
Agency MBS — 3,003 — — 3,003 
Non-agency residential MBS — 1,035 299 — 1,334 
Non-U.S. and other securities 400 6,088 — — 6,488 
Total other debt securities carried at fair value 403 10,126 299 — 10,828 
Loans and leases — 7,642 693 — 8,335 
Loans held-for-sale — 3,334 375 — 3,709 
Other assets 11,782 1,376 2,360 — 15,518 
Total assets $ 201,675 $ 697,958 $ 10,333 $ (304,262)$ 605,704 
Liabilities      
Interest-bearing deposits in U.S. offices $ — $ 508 $ — $ — $ 508 
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under
agreements to repurchase — 16,008 — — 16,008 
Trading account liabilities:     
U.S. Treasury and agency securities 13,140 282 — — 13,422 
Equity securities 38,148 4,144 2 — 42,294 
Non-U.S. sovereign debt 10,751 11,310 — — 22,061 
Corporate securities and other — 5,478 15 — 5,493 
Total trading account liabilities 62,039 21,214 17 — 83,270 
Derivative liabilities 11,904 320,479 4,764 (298,918) 38,229 
Short-term borrowings — 3,941 — — 3,941 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 13,927 1,507 — — 15,434 
Long-term debt — 33,826 1,149 — 34,975 
Total liabilities $ 87,870 $ 397,483 $ 5,930 $ (298,918)$ 192,365 
Amounts represent the impact of legally enforceable master netting agreements and also cash collateral held or placed with the same counterparties.
Includes $ 26.7 billion of GSE obligations.
Includes securities  with a fair value of $14.7 billion that were segregated in compliance with securities regulations or deposited with clearing organizations. This amount is included in the
parenthetical disclosure on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Includes MSRs of $ 1.5 billion which are classified as Level 3 assets.
Total recurring Level 3 assets were 0.42 percent of total consolidated assets, and total recurring Level 3 liabilities were 0.27 percent of total consolidated liabilities.(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
157 Bank of America
The following tables present a reconciliation of all assets and
liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using
significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) during 2020, 2019 and
2018, including net realized and unrealized gains (losses)
included in earnings and accumulated OCI. Transfers into Level
3 occur primarily due to decreased price observability , andtransfers out of Level 3 occur primarily due to increased price
observability . Transfers occur on a regular basis for long-term
debt instruments due to changes in the impact of unobservable
inputs on the value of the embedded derivative in relation to the
instrument as a whole.
Level 3 – Fair Value Measurements 
Balance
 January 1Total
Realized/Unrealized
Gains (Losses) in
Net
Income Gains 
 (Losses)
 in OCI GrossGross
 Transfers
into
 Level 3 Gross
 Transfers
out of
 Level 3 Balance
 December 31Change in
Unrealized
Gains
(Losses) in
Net Income
Related to
Financial
Instruments
Still Held (Dollars in millions)
 Purchases Sales Issuances Settlements
Year Ended December 31, 2020
Trading account assets:        
Corporate securities, trading loans and
other $1,507 $ (138)$ (1)$ 430 $(242)$ 10 $ (282)$ 639 $ (564)$ 1,359 $ (102)
Equity securities 239 (43) — 78 (53) — (3) 58 (49) 227 (31)
Non-U.S. sovereign debt 482 45 (46) 76 (61) — (39) 150 (253) 354 47 
Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other
MBS 1,553 (120) (3) 577 (746) 11 (96) 757 (493) 1,440 (92)
Total trading account assets 3,781 (256) (50) 1,161 (1,102) 21 (420) 1,604 (1,359) 3,380 (178)
Net derivative assets (liabilities) (2,538) (235) — 120 (646) — (112) (235) 178 (3,468) (953)
AFS debt securities:           
Non-agency residential MBS 424 (2) 3 23 (54) — (44) 158 (130) 378 (2)
Non-U.S. securities 2 1 — — (1) — (1) 17 — 18 1 
Other taxable securities 65 — — 9 (4) — — 1 — 71 — 
Tax-exempt securities 108 (21) 3 — — — (169) 265 (10) 176 (20)
Total AFS debt securities 599 (22) 6 32 (59) — (214) 441 (140) 643 (21)
Other debt securities carried at fair value –
Non-agency residential MBS 299 26 — — (180) — (24) 190 (44) 267 3 
Loans and leases 693 (4) — 145 (76) 22 (161) 98 — 717 9 
Loans held-for-sale 375 26 (28) — (489) 691 (119) 93 (313) 236 (5)
Other assets 2,360 (288) 3 178 (4) 224 (506) 5 (2) 1,970 (374)
Trading account liabilities – Equity
securities (2) 1 — — — — — — 1 — — 
Trading account liabilities – Corporate
securities
   and other (15) 8 — (7) (3) — 1 — — (16) — 
Long-term debt (1,149) (46) 2 (104) — (47) 218 (52) 14 (1,164) (5)
Year Ended December 31, 2019
Trading account assets:      
Corporate securities, trading loans and
other $1,558 $ 105 $ — $ 534 $(390)$ 18 $ (578)$ 699 $ (439)$ 1,507 $ 29 
Equity securities 276 (12) — 38 (87) — (9) 79 (46) 239 (18)
Non-U.S. sovereign debt 465 46 (12) 1 — — (51) 39 (6) 482 47 
Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other
MBS 1,635 99 (2) 662 (899) — (175) 738 (505) 1,553 26 
Total trading account assets 3,934 238 (14) 1,235 (1,376) 18 (813) 1,555 (996) 3,781 84 
Net derivative assets (liabilities) (935) (37) — 298 (837) — (97) 147 (1,077) (2,538) 228 
AFS debt securities:        
Non-agency residential MBS 597 13 64 — (73) — (40) 206 (343) 424 — 
Non-U.S. securities 2 — — — — — — — — 2 — 
Other taxable securities 7 2 — — — — (5) 61 — 65 — 
Tax-exempt securities — — — — — — — 108 — 108 — 
Total AFS debt securities 606 15 64 — (73) — (45) 375 (343) 599 — 
Other debt securities carried at fair value –
Non-agency residential MBS 172 36 — — — — (17) 155 (47) 299 38 
Loans and leases 338 — — 230 (35) 217 (57) — — 693 (1)
Loans held-for-sale 542 48 (6) 12 (71) 36 (245) 59 — 375 22 
Other assets 2,932 (81) 19 — (10) 179 (683) 5 (1) 2,360 (267)
Trading account liabilities – Equity
securities — (2) — — — — — — — (2) (2)
Trading account liabilities – Corporate
securities
   and other (18) 8 — (1) (3) (1) — — — (15) — 
Long-term debt (817) (59) (64) — — (40) 180 (350) 1 (1,149) (55)
Assets (liabilities). For assets, increase (decrease) to Level 3 and for liabilities, (increase) decrease to Level 3.
Includes gains (losses) reported in earnings in the following income statement line items: Trading account assets/liabilities - predominantly market making and similar activities; Net derivative
assets (liabilities) - market making and similar activities and other income; AFS debt securities - predominantly other income; Other debt securi ties carried at fair value - other income; Loans and
leases - market making and similar activities and other income; Loans held-for-sale - other income; Other assets - primarily other income related to MSRs; Long-term debt - market making and
similar activities.(1)
(2) (3) (2)
(4)
(5,6)
(5,6)
(6,7)
(5)
(4,8)
(5,6)
(5,6)
(6,7)
(5,8)
(1)
(2)
Includes unrealized gains (losses) in OCI on AFS debt securities, foreign currency translation adjustments and the impact of changes in the Corporation’ s credit spreads on long-term debt
accounted for under the fair value option. Amounts include net unrealized gains (losses) of $(41) million and $3 million related to financial instruments still held at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Net derivative assets (liabilities) include derivative assets of $ 2.8 billion and $ 2.2 billion and derivative liabilities of $ 6.2 billion and $ 4.8 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Amounts represent instruments that are accounted for under the fair value option.
Issuances represent loan originations and MSRs recognized following securitizations or whole-loan sales.
Settlements primarily represent the net change in fair value of the MSR asset due to the recognition of modeled cash flows and the passage of time.
Transfers into long-term debt include  a $1.4 billion transfer in of Level 3 derivativ e assets to reflect the Corporation's  change to present bifurcated embedded derivatives with their respective host
instruments.(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
Bank of America 158
Level 3 – Fair Value Measurements 
(Dollars in millions)Balance
January 1Total
Realized/Unrealized
Gains (Losses) in
Net
 Income Gains
(Losses)
in OCIGrossGross
Transfers
into
 Level 3Gross
Transfers
out of
 Level 3Balance
December 31Change in
Unrealized
Gains
(Losses) in
Net Income
Related to
Financial
Instruments
Still Held Purchases Sales Issuances Settlements
Year Ended December 31, 2018
Trading account assets:       
Corporate securities, trading loans and
other $1,864 $ (32)$ (1)$ 436 $(403)$ 5 $ (568)$ 804 $ (547)$ 1,558 $ (117)
Equity securities 235 (17) — 44 (11) — (4) 78 (49) 276 (22)
Non-U.S. sovereign debt 556 47 (44) 13 (57) — (30) 117 (137) 465 48 
Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other
MBS 1,498 148 3 585 (910) — (158) 705 (236) 1,635 97 
Total trading account assets 4,153 146 (42) 1,078 (1,381) 5 (760) 1,704 (969) 3,934 6 
Net derivative assets (liabilities) (1,714) 106 — 531 (1,179) — 778 39 504 (935) (116)
AFS debt securities:        
Non-agency residential MBS — 27 (33) — (71) — (25) 774 (75) 597 — 
Non-U.S. securities 25 — (1) — (10) — (15) 3 — 2 — 
Other taxable securities 509 1 (3) — (23) — (11) 60 (526) 7 — 
Tax-exempt securities 469 — — — — — (1) 1 (469) — — 
Total AFS debt securities 1,003 28 (37) — (104) — (52) 838 (1,070) 606 — 
Other debt securities carried at fair value -
Non-agency residential MBS — (18) — — (8) — (34) 365 (133) 172 (18)
Loans and leases 571 (16) — — (134) — (83) — — 338 (9)
Loans held-for-sale 690 44 (26) 71 — 1 (201) 23 (60) 542 31 
Other assets 2,425 414 (38) 2 (69) 96 (792) 929 (35) 2,932 149 
Trading account liabilities – Corporate
securities and other (24) 11 — 9 (12) (2) — — — (18) (7)
Accrued expenses and other liabilities (8) — — — — — 8 — — — — 
Long-term debt (1,863) 103 4 9 — (141) 486 (262) 847 (817) 95 
Assets (liabilities). For assets, increase (decrease) to Level 3 and for liabilities, (increase) decrease to Level 3.
Includes gains/loss es reported in earnings in the following income statem ent line items: Trading account assets/liabilities - predominantly market making and similar activities; Net derivative assets
(liabilities) - market making and similar activities and other income; Other debt securities carried at fair value - other income; Loans and leases - predominantly other income; Loans held-for-sale -
other income; Other assets - primarily other income related to MSRs; Long-term debt - primarily market making and similar activities.   
Includes unrealized gains (losses) in OCI on AFS debt securities, foreign currency translation adjustments and the impact of changes in the Corporation’ s credit spreads on long-term debt
accounted for under the fair value option. Amounts include net unrealized losses of $ 105 million related to financial instruments still held at December 31, 2018.
Net derivative assets (liabilities) include derivative assets of $ 3.5 billion and derivative liabilities of $ 4.4 billion.
Transfers out of AFS debt securities and into other assets primarily relate to the reclassifcation of certain securities.
Amounts represent instruments that are accounted for under the fair value option.
Issuances represent loan originations and MSRs recognized following securitizations or whole-loan sales.
Settlements primarily represent the net change in fair value of the MSR asset due to the recognition of modeled cash flows and the passage of time.(1)
(2)  (3) (2)
(4)
(5)
(6,7)
(6)
 (5,7,8)
(6)
(6)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
159 Bank of America
The following tables present information about significant unobservable inputs related to the Corporation’ s material categories of
Level 3 financial assets and liabilities at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Quantitative Information about Level 3 Fair V alue Measurements at December 31, 2020
(Dollars in millions) Inputs
Financial InstrumentFair 
 ValueValuation 
 TechniqueSignificant Unobservable 
 InputsRanges of 
 InputsWeighted
Average 
Loans and Securities 
Instruments backed by residential real estate assets $ 1,543  
Discounted cash flow ,
Market comparablesYield (3)% to 25% 6 %
Trading account assets – Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS 467 Prepayment speed 1% to 56% CPR 20% CPR
Loans and leases 431 Default rate 0% to 3% CDR 1% CDR
AFS debt securities – Non-agency residential 378 Price $0 to $168 $110
Other debt securities carried at fair value – Non-agency residential 267 Loss severity 0% to 47% 18 %
Instruments backed by commercial real estate assets $ 407 
Discounted cash 
 flowYield 0% to 25% 4 %
Trading account assets – Corporate securities, trading loans and other 262 Price $0 to $100 $52
Trading account assets – Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS 43 
AFS debt securities, primarily other taxable securities 89 
Loans held-for-sale 13 
Commercial loans, debt securities and other $ 3,066  
Discounted cash flow ,
Market comparablesYield 0% to 26% 9 %
Trading account assets – Corporate securities, trading loans and other 1,097  Prepayment speed 10% to 20% 14 %
Trading account assets – Non-U.S. sovereign debt 354 Default rate 3% to 4% 4 %
Trading account assets – Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS 930 Loss severity 35% to 40% 38 %
AFS debt securities – T ax-exempt securities 176 Price $0 to $142 $66
Loans and leases 286 Long-dated equity volatilities 77% n/a
Loans held-for-sale 223 
Other assets, primarily auction rate securities $ 937 
Discounted cash flow ,
Market comparablesPrice $10 to $97 $91
 Discount rate 8 % n/a
MSRs $ 1,033  
Discounted cash 
 flowWeighted-average life, fixed rate 0 to 13 years 4 years
Weighted-average life, variable rate 0 to 10 years 3 years
Option-adjusted spread, fixed rate 7% to 14% 9 %
Option-adjusted spread, variable rate 9% to 15% 12 %
Structured liabilities
Long-term debt $(1,164 )
Discounted cash flow ,
Market comparables,
Industry standard
derivative pricing Yield 0% to 11% 9 %
Equity correlation 2% to 100% 64 %
Long-dated equity volatilities 7% to 64% 32 %
Price $0 to $124 $86
Natural gas forward price $1/MMBtu to $ 4/MMBtu $3 /MMBtu
Net derivative assets (liabilities)
Credit derivatives $ (112)
Discounted cash flow ,
Stochastic recovery
correlation modelYield 5% n/a
Upfront points 0 to 100 points  75 points
Prepayment speed 15% to 100% CPR 22% CPR
Default rate 2% CDR n/a
Credit correlation 21% to 64% 57 %
Price $0 to $122 $69
Equity derivatives $(1,904 )Industry standard
derivative pricing Equity correlation 2% to 100% 64 %
Long-dated equity volatilities 7% to 64% 32 %
Commodity derivatives $(1,426 )Discounted cash flow ,
Industry standard
derivative pricing Natural gas forward price $1/MMBtu to $ 4/MMBtu $3 /MMBtu
Correlation 39% to 85% 73 %
Volatilities 23% to 70% 39 %
Interest rate derivatives $ (26)
Industry standard
derivative pricing Correlation (IR/IR) 15% to 96% 34 %
Correlation (FX/IR) 0% to 46% 3 %
Long-dated inflation rates  (7)% to 84% 14 %
Long-dated inflation volatilities 0% to 1% 1 %
Interest rate volatilities 0% to 2% 1 %
Total net derivative assets (liabilities) $(3,468 )
For loans and securities, structured liabilities and net derivative assets (liabilities), the weighted average is calculated based upon the absolute fair value of the instruments.
The categories are aggregated based upon product type which differs from financial statement classification. The following is a reconciliation to the line items in the table on page 156: Trading
account assets – Corporate securities, trading loans and other of $1.4 billion, Trading account assets – Non-U.S. sovereign debt of $354 million, Trading account assets – Mortgage trading loans,
ABS and other MBS of $1.4 billion, AFS debt securities of $643 million, Other debt securities carried at fair value - Non-agency residen tial of $267 million, Other assets, including MSR s, of $2.0
billion, Loans and leases of $ 717 million and LHFS of $ 236 million.
Includes models such as Monte Carlo simulation and Black-Scholes.
Includes models such as Monte Carlo simulation, Black-Scholes and other methods that model the joint dynamics of interest, inflation and foreign exchange rates.
The weighted-average life is a product of changes in market rates of interest, prepayment rates and other model and cash flow assumptions.
CPR = Constant Prepayment Rate
CDR = Constant Default Rate
MMBtu = Million British thermal units
IR = Interest Rate
FX = Foreign Exchange
n/a = not applicable(1)
(2)
(5)
(5)
(3)
(3)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
Bank of America 160
Quantitative Information about Level 3 Fair V alue Measurements at December 31, 2019
(Dollars in millions) Inputs
Financial InstrumentFair 
ValueValuation 
 TechniqueSignificant Unobservable 
 InputsRanges of 
 InputsWeighted
Average 
Loans and Securities 
Instruments backed by residential real estate assets $ 1,407  
Discounted cash flow ,
Market comparablesYield 0% to 25% 6 %
Trading account assets – Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS 332 Prepayment speed 1% to 27% CPR 17% CPR
Loans and leases 281 Default rate 0% to 3% CDR 1% CDR
Loans held-for-sale 4 Loss severity 0% to 47% 14 %
AFS debt securities, primarily non-agency residential 491 Price $0 to $160 $94
Other debt securities carried at fair value - Non-agency residential 299 
Instruments backed by commercial real estate assets $ 303 
Discounted cash flowYield 0% to 30% 14 %
Trading account assets – Corporate securities, trading loans and other 201 Price $0 to $100 $55
Trading account assets – Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS 85 
Loans held-for-sale 17 
Commercial loans, debt securities and other $ 3,798  
Discounted cash flow ,
Market comparablesYield 1% to 20% 6 %
Trading account assets – Corporate securities, trading loans and other 1,306  Prepayment speed 10% to 20% 13 %
Trading account assets – Non-U.S. sovereign debt 482 Default rate 3% to 4% 4 %
Trading account assets – Mortgage trading loans, ABS and other MBS 1,136  Loss severity 35% to 40% 38 %
AFS debt securities – T ax-exempt securities 108 Price  $0 to $142 $72
Loans and leases 412 Long-dated equity volatilities 35% n/a
Loans held-for-sale 354 
Other assets, primarily auction rate securities $ 815 
Discounted cash flow ,
Market comparablesPrice $10 to $100 $96
 
MSRs $ 1,545  
Discounted cash flowWeighted-average life, fixed rate 0 to 14 years 5 years
Weighted-average life, variable rate 0 to 9 years 3 years
Option-adjusted spread, fixed rate 7% to 14% 9 %
Option-adjusted spread, variable rate 9% to 15% 11 %
Structured liabilities
Long-term debt $(1,149 )
Discounted cash flow ,
Market comparables,
Industry standard
derivative pricing Yield 2% to 6% 5 %
Equity correlation  9% to 100% 63 %
Long-dated equity volatilities 4% to 101% 32 %
Price $0 to $116 $74
Natural gas forward price $1/MMBtu to $ 5/MMBtu $3/MMBtu
Net derivative assets (liabilities)
Credit derivatives $ 13 
Discounted cash flow ,
Stochastic recovery
correlation modelYield 5% n/a
Upfront points 0 to 100 points  63 points
Prepayment speed 15% to 100% CPR 22% CPR
Default rate 1% to 4% CDR 2% CDR
Loss severity 35% n/a
Price $0 to $104 $73
Equity derivatives $(1,081 ) Industry standard
derivative pricing Equity correlation 9% to 100% 63 %
Long-dated equity volatilities 4% to 101% 32 %
Commodity derivatives $(1,357 )Discounted cash flow ,
Industry standard
derivative pricing Natural gas forward price $1/MMBtu to $ 5/MMBtu $3/MMBtu
Correlation 30% to 69% 68 %
Volatilities 14% to 54% 27 %
Interest rate derivatives $ (113)
Industry standard
derivative pricingCorrelation (IR/IR) 15% to 94% 52 %
Correlation (FX/IR) 0% to 46% 2 %
Long-dated inflation rates G(23)% to 56% 16 %
Long-dated inflation volatilities 0% to 1% 1 %
Total net derivative assets (liabilities) $(2,538 )
For loans and securities, structured liabilities and net derivative assets (liabilities), the weighted average is calculated based upon the absolute fair value of the instruments.
The categories are aggregated based upon product type which differs from financial statement classification. The following is a reconciliation to the line items in the table on page 157: Trading
account assets – Corporate securities, trading loans and other of $1.5 billion, Trading account assets – Non-U.S. sovereign debt of $482 million, Trading account assets – Mortgage trading loans,
ABS and other MBS of $1.6 billion, AFS debt securities of $599 million, Other debt securities carried at fair value - Non-agency residen tial of $299 million, Other assets, including MSR s, of $2.4
billion, Loans and leases of $ 693 million and LHFS of $ 375 million.
Includes models such as Monte Carlo simulation and Black-Scholes.
Includes models such as Monte Carlo simulation, Black-Scholes and other methods that model the joint dynamics of interest, inflation and foreign exchange rates.
The weighted-average life is a product of changes in market rates of interest, prepayment rates and other model and cash flow assumptions.
CPR = Constant Prepayment Rate
CDR = Constant Default Rate
MMBtu = Million British thermal units
IR = Interest Rate
FX = Foreign Exchange
n/a = not applicable(1)
(2)
(5)
(5)
(3)
(3)
(3)
 (4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
161 Bank of America
In the previous tables, instruments backed by residential and
commercial real estate assets include RMBS, commercial MBS,
whole loans  and mortgage CDOs. Commercial loans, debt
securities and other include corporate CLOs and CDOs,
commercial loans and bonds, and securities backed by non-real
estate asset s. Structured  liabilities primarily include equity-linked
notes that are accounted for under the fair value option.
The Corporation uses multiple market approaches in valuing
certain of its Level 3 financial instruments. For example, market
comparables and discounted cash flows are used together . For
a given product, such as corporate debt securities, market
comparables may be used to estimate some of the
unobservable inputs and then these inputs are incorporated into
a discounted cash flow model. Therefore,  the balances
disclosed encompass both of these techniques.
The level of aggregation and diversity within the products
disclosed in the tables result in certain ranges of inputs being
wide and unevenly distributed across asse t and liability
categories.
Uncertainty of Fair Value Measurements from
Unobservable Inputs
Loans and Securities
A significant increase in market yields, default rates, loss
severities or duration would have resulted in a significantly lower
fair value for long posit ions. Short positions would have been
impacted in a directionally opposite way. The impact of changes
in prepayment speeds would have resulted in differing impacts
depending on the senior ity of the instrument and, in the case of
CLOs, whether prepayments can be reinvested. A significant
increase in price would have resulted in a significantly higher fair
value for long positions , and short positions would have been
impacted in a directionally opposite way .
Structured Liabilities and Derivatives
For credit derivatives, a significant increase in market yield,
upfront points (i.e., a single upfront payment made by aprotection buyer at inception), credit spreads, default rates or
loss severities would have resulted in a significantly lower fair
value for protection sellers and higher fair value for protection
buyers. The impact of changes in prepayment speeds would
have resulted in differing  impacts depending on the seniority of
the instrument.
Structured credit derivatives are impacted  by credit
correlation. Default correlation is a parameter that describes the
degree of dependence among credit default rates within a credit
portfolio that underlies a credit derivative instrument. The
sensitivity of this input on the fair value varies depending on the
level of subordination of the tranche. For senior tranches that
are net purchases of protection, a significant increase in default
correlation would have resulted in a significantly higher fair
value. Net short protection positions would have been impacted
in a directionally opposite way .
For equity derivatives, commodity derivatives, interest rate
derivatives and structured liabilities, a significant change in long-
dated rates and volatilities and correlation inputs (i.e., the
degree of correlation between an equity security and an index,
between two different commodities, between  two different
interest rates, or between interest rates and foreign exchange
rates) would have resulted in a significant impact to the fair
value; however , the magnitude and direction of the impact
depend on whether the Corporation is long or short the
exposure. For structured liabilities, a significant increase in yield
or decrease  in price would have resulted in a significantly lower
fair value.
Nonrecurring Fair Value
The Corporation holds certain assets that are measured at fair
value only in certain situations (e.g., the impairment of an asset),
and these measurements are referred to herein as nonrecurring.
The amounts below represent assets still held as of the reporting
date for which a nonrecurring fair value adjustment was
recorded during 2020, 2019 and 2018.
Assets Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis
December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
(Dollars in millions)
  Level 2 Level 3 Level 2 Level 3
Assets    
Loans held-for-sale $ 1,020 $ 792 $ 53 $ 102 
Loans and leases — 301 — 257 
Foreclosed properties — 17 — 17 
Other assets 323 576 178 646 
Gains (Losses)
2020 2019 2018
Assets    
Loans held-for-sale $ (79)$ (14)$ (18)
Loans and leases (73) (81) (202)
Foreclosed properties (6) (9) (24)
Other assets (98) (2,145) (64)
Includes $ 30 million, $ 36 million and $ 83 million of losses on loans that were written down to a collateral value of zero during 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively .
Amounts are included in other assets  on the Consolidated Balance Shee t and represent the carrying value of foreclosed properties that were written down subsequent to their initial classification as
foreclosed properties. Losses on foreclosed properties include losses recorded during the first 90 days after transfer of a loan to foreclosed properties.
Excludes $ 119 million and $ 260 million of properties acquired upon foreclosure of certain government-guaranteed loans (principally FHA-insured loans) at December 31, 2020 and 2019.(1)
(2, 3)
(1)
(1)
(2)
(3)
Bank of America 162
The table below presents information about significant unobservable inputs utilized in the Corporation's nonrecurring Level 3 fair
value measurements during 2020 and 2019.
Quantitative Information about Nonrecurring Level 3 Fair Value Measurements
Inputs
Financial InstrumentFair
ValueValuation 
 TechniqueSignificant
Unobservable 
 InputsRanges of 
 InputsWeighted
Average 
(Dollars in millions) 2020
Loans held-for-sale $ 792 Discounted cash flowPrice $8 to $99 $95
Loans and leases 301 Market comparablesOREO discount 13% to 59% 24 %
Costs to sell 8% to 26% 9 %
Other assets 576 Discounted cash flowRevenue attrition 2% to 19% 7 %
Discount rate 11% to 14% 12 %
2019
Loans held-for-sale $ 102 Discounted cash flowPrice $85 to $97 $88
Loans and leases 257 Market comparablesOREO discount 13% to 59% 24 %
Costs to sell 8% to 26% 9 %
Other assets 640 Discounted cash flowCustomer attrition 0% to 19% 5 %
Cost to service 11% to 19% 15 %
The weighted average is calculated based upon the fair value of the loans.
Represents residential mortgages where the loan has been written down to the fair value of the underlying collateral.
The fair value of the intangible asset related to the merchant contracts received from the merchant services joint venture was measured using a discounted cash flow method for which the two key
assumptions were the revenue attrition rate and the discount rate. For more information, see Note 7 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets.
Reflects the measurement of the Corporation’ s merchant services equity method investment on which the Corporation recorded an impairment charge in 2019. The fair value of the merchant
services joint venture was measured using a discounted cash flow method for which the two key assumptions were the customer attrition rate and the cost-to-service rate.  
NOTE 21 Fair V alue Option
Loans and Loan Commitments
The Corporation elects to account for certain loans and loan
commitments that exceed the Corporation’ s single-name credit
risk concentration guidelines under the fair value option. Lending
commitments are actively managed and, as appropriate, credit
risk for these  lending relationships may be mitiga ted through the
use of credit derivatives,  with the Corporation’ s public side credit
view and market perspe ctives determining the size and timing of
the hedging  activity . These credit derivatives do not meet the
requirements for designation as accounting hedges and
therefore are carried at fair value. The fair value option allows
the Corporation to carry  these loans and loan commitments at
fair value, which is more  consistent with management’ s view of
the underlying economics and the manner in which they are
managed. In addition, the fair value option allows the
Corporation to reduce the accounting volatility that would
otherwise result from the asymmetry created by accounting for
the financial instruments at historical cost and the credit
derivatives at fair value.
Loans Held-for-sale
The Corpor ation elects to account for residential mortgage
LHFS, commercial mortgage LHFS and certain other LHFS
under the fair value option. These loans are actively managed
and monitored and, as appropriate, certain market risks of the
loans may be mitigated through the use of derivatives. The
Corporation has elected not to designate the derivatives as
qualifying accounting hedges, and therefore, they are carried at
fair value. The changes in fair value of the loans are largelyoffset by changes in the fair value of the derivatives. The fair
value option allows the Corporation to reduce the accounting
volatility that would otherwise result from the asymmetry created
by accountin g for the financial instruments at the lower of cost or
fair value and the derivatives at fair value. The Corporation has
not elected to account for certain other LHFS under the fair
value option  primarily because these loans are floating-rate
loans that are not hedged using derivative instruments.
Loans Reported as Trading Account Assets
The Corporation elects to account for certain loans that are held
for the purpose of trading and are risk-managed on a fair value
basis under the fair value option.
Other Assets
The Corporation elects to account for certain long-term fixed-
rate margin loans that are hedged with derivatives under the fair
value option. Election of the fair value option allows the
Corporation to reduce the accounting volatility that would
otherwise result from the asymmetry created by accounting for
the financial instruments at historical cost and the derivatives at
fair value.
Securities Financing Agreements
The Corporation elects to account for certain securities financing
agreements, including resale and repurchas e agreements,
under the fair value option. These elections include certain
agreements collateralized by the U.S. gove rnment and its
agencies, which are generally short-dated and have minimal
interest rate risk.
 (1)
(2)
(3)
(2)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
163 Bank of America
Long-term Deposits
The Corporation elects to account for certain long-term fixed-
rate and rate-linked deposits that are hedged with derivatives
that do not qualify for hedge accounting. Election of the fair
value option allows the Corporation to reduce the accounting
volatility that would otherwise result from the asymmetry created
by accounting for the financial instruments at historical cost and
the derivatives at fair value. The Corporation has not elected to
carry other long-term deposits at fair value because they are not
hedged using derivatives.
Short-term Borrowings
The Corporation elects to account for certain short-term
borrowings, primarily short-term structured liabilities, under the
fair value option becau se this debt is risk-managed on a fair
value basis.
The Corporation elects to account for certain asset-backed
secured financings, which are also classified in short-term
borrowings, under the fair value option. Election of the fair value
option allows the Corporation to reduce the accounting volatilitythat would otherwise result from the asymmetry created by
accounting for the asset-backed secured financi ngs at historical
cost and the corresponding mortgage LHFS securing these
financings at fair value.
Long-term Debt
The Corporation elects to account for certain long-term debt,
primarily structured liabilities, under the fair value option. This
long-term debt is either risk-managed on a fair value basis or the
related hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Fair Value Option Elections
The following tables provide information about the fair value
carrying amount and the contractual principal  outstanding of
assets and liabilities accounted for under the fair value option at
December 31, 2020 and 2019, and information about where
changes in the fair value of assets and liabilities accounted for
under the fair value option are included in the Consolidated
Statement of Income for 2020, 2019 and 2018.
Fair Value Option Elections
December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
(Dollars in millions)Fair Value
Carrying
AmountContractual
Principal
OutstandingFair Value
Carrying
Amount Less
Unpaid PrincipalFair Value 
 Carrying 
 AmountContractual
Principal
OutstandingFair Value
Carrying 
 Amount Less
Unpaid Principal
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or
purchased under agreements to resell $ 108,856 $ 108,811 $ 45 $ 50,364 $ 50,318 $ 46 
Loans reported as trading account assets 7,967 17,372 (9,405) 6,989 14,703 (7,714)
Trading inventory – other 22,790 n/a n/a 19,574 n/a n/a
Consumer and commercial loans 6,681 6,778 (97) 8,335 8,372 (37)
Loans held-for-sale 1,585 2,521 (936) 3,709 4,879 (1,170)
Other assets 200 n/a n/a 4 n/a n/a
Long-term deposits 481 448 33 508 496 12 
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or
sold under agreements to repurchase 135,391 135,390 1 16,008 16,029 (21)
Short-term borrowings 5,874 5,178 696 3,941 3,930 11 
Unfunded loan commitments 99 n/a n/a 90 n/a n/a
Long-term debt 32,200 33,470 (1,270) 34,975 35,730 (755)
A significant portion of the loans reported as trading account assets and LHFS are distressed loans that were purchased at a deep discount to par, and the remainder are loans with a fair value
near contractual principal outstanding.
n/a = not applicable(1)
(1)
(1)
Bank of America 164
Gains (Losses) Relating to Assets and Liabilities Accounted for Under the Fair Value Option
Market making
and similar
activitiesOther 
 Income Total
(Dollars in millions) 2020
Loans reported as trading account assets $ 107 $ — $ 107 
Trading inventory – other 3,216 — 3,216 
Consumer and commercial loans 22 (3) 19 
Loans held-for-sale — 103 103 
Short-term borrowings (170) — (170)
Unfunded loan commitments — (65) (65)
Long-term debt (2,175) (53) (2,228)
Other 35 (22) 13 
Total $ 1,035 $ (40)$ 995 
2019
Loans reported as trading account assets $ 203 $ — $ 203 
Trading inventory – other 5,795 — 5,795 
Consumer and commercial loans 92 12 104 
Loans held-for-sale — 98 98 
Short-term borrowings (24) — (24)
Unfunded loan commitments — 79 79 
Long-term debt (1,098) (78) (1,176)
Other 9 (27) (18)
Total $ 4,977 $ 84 $ 5,061 
2018
Loans reported as trading account assets $ 8 $ — $ 8 
Trading inventory – other 1,750 — 1,750 
Consumer and commercial loans (422) (53) (475)
Loans held-for-sale 1 24 25 
Short-term borrowings 2 — 2 
Unfunded loan commitments — (49) (49)
Long-term debt 2,157 (93) 2,064 
Other 6 18 24 
Total $ 3,502 $ (153)$ 3,349 
    The gains in market making and similar activities are primarily of fset by losses on trading liabilities that hedge these assets.
    Includes the value of IRLCs on funded loans, including those sold during the period.
    The net gains (losses) in market making and similar activities relate to the embedded derivatives in structured liabilities and are typically offset by (losses) gains on derivatives and securities that
hedge these liabilities. For the cumulative impact of changes in the Corporation’ s own credit spreads and the amount recognized in accumulated OCI, see Note 14 – Accumulated Other
Comprehensive Income (Loss) . For more information on how the Corporation’ s own credit spread is determined, see Note 20 – Fair V alue Measurements.
    Includes gains (losses) on federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell, long-term deposits and federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold
under agreements to repurchase.
Gains (Losses) Related to Borrower-specific Credit Risk for Assets and Liabilities Accounted for Under the
Fair Value Option
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Loans reported as trading account assets $ (172)$ 43 $ 6 
Consumer and commercial loans (19) 15 (56)
Loans held-for-sale (105) 57 (4)
Unfunded loan commitments (65) 79 (94)
NOTE 22 Fair V alue of Financial Instruments
Financial instruments are classified within the fair value
hierarchy using the methodologies described in Note 20 – Fair
Value Measurements . Certa in loans, deposit s, long-term debt,
unfunded lending comm itments and other finan cial instruments
are accoun ted for under the fair value option. For more
information, see Note 21 – Fair Value Option. The following
disclosures include financial instruments that are not carried at
fair value or only a portio n of the ending balance is carried at fair
value on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Short-term Financial Instruments
The carrying value of short-term financial instruments, including
cash and cash equivalents, certain time deposits placed and
other short-term investments, federal funds sold and purchased,certain resale and repurchase agreements and short-term
borrowings, approximate s the fair value of these instruments.
These financ ial instruments generally expose the Corporation to
limited credit risk and have no stated maturities or have short-
term maturities and carry interest rates that approximate market.
The Corporation accounts for certain resale and repurchase
agreements under the fair value option.
Under the fair value hierarchy , cash and cash equivalents are
classified as Level 1. Time deposits placed and other short-term
investments, such as U.S. government securities  and short-term
commercial paper , are classified as Level 1 or Level 2. Federal
funds sold and purchase d are classified as Level 2. Resale and
repurchase agreements are classified as Level 2 because they
are generally short-dated and/or variable-ra te instruments
collateralized by U.S. government or agency securities. Short-
term borrowings are classified as Level 2.(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
165 Bank of America
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The carrying  values and fair values by fair value hierarchy of
certain financial instruments where only a portio n of the ending
balance was carried at fair value at December 31, 2020 and
2019 are presented in the following table.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Fair Value
Carrying
Value Level 2 Level 3 Total
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2020
Financial assets
Loans $887,289 $ 49,372 $877,682 $927,054 
Loans held-for-
sale 9,243 7,864 1,379 9,243 
Financial liabilities
Deposits 1,795,480 1,795,545 — 1,795,545 
Long-term debt 262,934 271,315 1,164 272,479 
Commercial
unfunded lending
commitments 1,977 99 5,159 5,258 
December 31, 2019
Financial assets
Loans $950,093 $ 63,633 $914,597 $978,230 
Loans held-for-
sale 9,158 8,439 719 9,158 
Financial liabilities
Deposits 1,434,803 1,434,809 — 1,434,809 
Long-term debt 240,856 247,376 1,149 248,525 
Commercial
unfunded lending
commitments 903 90 4,777 4,867 
    Includes demand deposits of $799.0  billion and $545.5  billion with no stated maturities at
December 31, 2020 and 2019.
    The carrying value of commercial unfunded lending commitments is included in accrued
expenses and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Corporation does not
estimate the fair value of consumer unfunded lending commitments  because, in many
instances, the Corporation can reduce or cancel these commitments by providing notice to
the borrower . For more information on commitments, see Note 12 – Commitments and
Contingencies .
NOTE 23  Business Segment Information
The Corporation reports its results of operations through the
following four business segments: Consumer Banking , GWIM ,
Global Banking  and Global Markets , with the remaining
operations recorded in All Other .
Consumer Banking
Consumer Banking offers a diversified range of credit, banking
and investment products and services to consumers and small
businesses. Consumer Banking  product offerings include
traditional savings accounts, money market savings accounts,
CDs and IRAs, checkin g accounts, and inves tment accounts
and product s, as well as credit and debit cards, residential
mortgages and home equity loans, and direct and indirect loans
to consumers and small businesses in the U.S. Consumer
Banking  includes the impact of servicing residential mortgages
and home equity loans in the core portfolio.
Global Wealth & Investment Management
GWIM  provides a high-touc h client experience through a
network of financial advisors focused on clients with over
$250,000 in total invest able assets, including tailored solutions
to meet clients’ need s through a full set of investment
management, brokerage, banking and retirement products.
GWIM  also provides comp rehensive wealth management
solutions targeted to high net worth and ultra high net worth
clients, as well as customized solutions to meet clients’ wealth
structuring, investment management, trust and banking needs,
including specialty asset management services.Global Banking
Global Banking  provides a wide range of lending-related
products and services, integrated working capital management
and treasury solutions, and underwriting and advisory services
through the Corporati on’s network of offices and client
relationship teams. Global Banking also provides investment
banking products to clients. The economics of certain
investment banking and underwriting activiti es are shared
primarily between Global Banking and Global Markets  under an
internal revenue-sharing arrangement. Global Banking  clients
generally include middle-market companies, commercial real
estate firms,  not-for-prof it companies, large global corporations,
financial institutions, leasing clients, and mid-s ized U.S.-based
businesses requiring customized and integrated  financial advice
and solutions.
Global Markets
Global Markets  offers sales and tradin g services and research
services to institutional clients across fixed-income, credit,
currency , commodity and equity businesses. Global Markets
provides market-making, financing, securities clearing,
settlement and custody services globally to institutional investor
clients in support of their investing and trading activities. Global
Markets  product coverage includes securities and derivative
products in both the primary and secondary markets. Global
Markets  also works with commercial and corporate clients to
provide risk management products. As a result of market-making
activities, Global Markets may be required to manage risk in a
broad range of financial products. In addition, the economics of
certain investment banking and underwriting activities are
shared primarily betwee n Global Markets and Global Banking
under an internal revenue-sharing arrangement.
All Other
All Other  consists of ALM activities, equity investments, non-
core mortg age loans and servicing activities, liquidating
businesses and certain expenses not otherw ise allocated to
business segments. ALM activities encompass certain
residential mortgages, debt securities, interest rate and foreign
currency risk managem ent activities. Substantially all of the
results of ALM activities are allocated to the business segments.
Basis of Presentation
The management accounting and reporting process derives
segment and busine ss results by utilizing allocation
methodologies for revenue and expense. The net income
derived for the businesses is dependent upon revenue and cost
allocations using an activity-based costing mode l, funds transfer
pricing, and other methodologies and assumptions management
believes are appropriate to reflect the results of the business.
Total revenue, net of interest expense, includes net interest
income on an FTE basis and noninterest income. The
adjustment of net interest income to an FTE basis results in a
corresponding increase in income tax expense. The segment
results also reflect certain revenue and expense methodologies
that are utilized to determine net income. The net interest
income of the businesse s includes the results of a funds transfer
pricing process that matches assets and liabilities with similar
interest rate sensitivity and maturity characteristics. In segments
where the total of liabilities and equity exceeds assets, which are
generally deposit-taking segments, the Corporation allocates
assets to match liabilitie s. Net interest income of the business
segments also includes an allocation of(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
Bank of America 166
net interest income generated by certain of the Corporation’ s
ALM activities.
The Corpora tion’s ALM activities include an overall interest
rate risk management strategy that incorporates the use of
various deriv atives and cash instruments to manage fluctuations
in earnings and capital that are caused by interest rate volatility .
The Corporation’ s goal is to manage interest rate sensitivity so
that movements in interest rates do not significantly adversely
affect earnings and capital. The results of substantially all of the
Corporation’ s ALM activities are allocated to the business
segments and fluctuate based on the performa nce of the ALM
activities. ALM activities include external product pricing
decisions including deposit pricingstrategies, the effects of the Corporation’ s internal funds transfer
pricing process and the net ef fects of other ALM activities.
Certain expenses not directly attributable to a specific
business segment are allocated to the segments. The costs of
certain centralized or shared functions are allocated based on
methodologies that reflect utilization.
The following table presents net income (loss) and the
components thereto (with net interest income on an FTE basis
for the business segments, All Other and the total Corporatio n)
for 2020, 2019 and 2018, and total assets at December 31, 2020
and 2019 for each business segment, as well as All Other .
Results of Business Segments and All
Other
At and for the year ended December 31 Total Corporation Consumer Banking
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Net interest income $ 43,859 $ 49,486 $ 48,772 $ 24,698 $ 28,158 $ 27,025 
Noninterest income 42,168 42,353 42,858 8,564 10,429 10,593 
Total revenue, net of interest expense 86,027 91,839 91,630 33,262 38,587 37,618 
Provision for credit losses 11,320 3,590 3,282 5,765 3,772 3,664 
Noninterest expense 55,213 54,900 53,154 18,878 17,646 17,672 
Income before income taxes 19,494 33,349 35,194 8,619 17,169 16,282 
Income tax expense 1,600 5,919 7,047 2,112 4,207 4,150 
Net income $ 17,894 $ 27,430 $ 28,147 $ 6,507 $ 12,962 $ 12,132 
Period-end total assets $ 2,819,627 $ 2,434,079 $ 988,580 $ 804,093  
 Global Wealth & Investment Management Global Banking
 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Net interest income $ 5,468 $ 6,504 $ 6,265 $ 9,013 $ 10,675 $ 10,993 
Noninterest income 13,116 13,034 13,188 9,974 9,808 9,008 
Total revenue, net of interest expense 18,584 19,538 19,453 18,987 20,483 20,001 
Provision for credit losses 357 82 86 4,897 414 8 
Noninterest expense 14,154 13,825 14,015 9,337 9,011 8,745 
Income before income taxes 4,073 5,631 5,352 4,753 11,058 11,248 
Income tax expense 998 1,380 1,364 1,283 2,985 2,923 
Net income $ 3,075 $ 4,251 $ 3,988 $ 3,470 $ 8,073 $ 8,325 
Period-end total assets $ 369,736 $ 299,770  $ 580,561 $ 464,032  
 Global Markets All Other
 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Net interest income $ 4,646 $ 3,915 $ 3,857 $ 34 $ 234 $ 632 
Noninterest income 14,120 11,699 12,326 (3,606) (2,617) (2,257)
Total revenue, net of interest expense 18,766 15,614 16,183 (3,572) (2,383) (1,625)
Provision for credit losses 251 (9) — 50 (669) (476)
Noninterest expense 11,422 10,728 10,835 1,422 3,690 1,887 
Income (loss) before income taxes 7,093 4,895 5,348 (5,044) (5,404) (3,036)
Income tax expense (benefit) 1,844 1,395 1,390 (4,637) (4,048) (2,780)
Net income (loss) $ 5,249 $ 3,500 $ 3,958 $ (407)$ (1,356)$ (256)
Period-end total assets $ 616,609 $ 641,809 $ 264,141 $ 224,375  
There were no material intersegment revenues. (1)
(1)
167 Bank of America
The table below presen ts noninterest income and the associated components for 2020, 2019 and 2018 for each business
segment, All Other and the total Corporation. For more information, see Note 2 – Net Interest Income and Noninterest Income.
Noninterest Income by Business Segment and All Other
Total Corporation Consumer BankingGlobal Wealth & 
 Investment Management
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Fees and commissions:
Card income
Interchange fees $ 3,954 $ 3,834 $ 3,866 $ 3,027 $ 3,174 $ 3,196 $ 36 $ 59 $ 81 
Other card income 1,702 1,963 1,958 1,646 1,910 1,907 42 42 46 
Total card income 5,656 5,797 5,824 4,673 5,084 5,103 78 101 127 
Service charges
Deposit-related fees 5,991 6,588 6,667 3,417 4,218 4,300 67 68 73 
Lending-related fees 1,150 1,086 1,100 — — — — — — 
Total service charges 7,141 7,674 7,767 3,417 4,218 4,300 67 68 73 
Investment and brokerage services
Asset management fees 10,708 10,241 10,189 146 144 147 10,578 10,130 10,042 
Brokerage fees 3,866 3,661 3,971 127 149 172 1,692 1,740 1,917 
Total investment and brokerage services 14,574 13,902 14,160 273 293 319 12,270 11,870 11,959 
Investment banking fees
Underwriting income 4,698 2,998 2,722 — — — 391 401 335 
Syndication fees 861 1,184 1,347 — — — — — — 
Financial advisory services 1,621 1,460 1,258 — — — — — 2 
Total investment banking fees 7,180 5,642 5,327 — — — 391 401 337 
Total fees and commissions 34,551 33,015 33,078 8,363 9,595 9,722 12,806 12,440 12,496 
Market making and similar activities 8,355 9,034 9,008 2 6 8 63 113 112 
Other income (loss) (738) 304 772 199 828 863 247 481 580 
Total noninterest income $42,168 $42,353 $42,858 $ 8,564 $10,429 $10,593 $13,116 $13,034 $13,188 
Global Banking Global Markets All Other 
2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Fees and commissions:
Card income
Interchange fees $ 499 $ 519 $ 503 $ 391 $ 81 $ 86 $ 1 $ 1 $ — 
Other card income 14 13 8 — (1) (2) — (1) (1)
Total card income 513 532 511 391 80 84 1 — (1)
Service charges
Deposit-related fees 2,298 2,121 2,111 177 156 161 32 25 22 
Lending-related fees 940 894 916 210 192 184 — — — 
Total service charges 3,238 3,015 3,027 387 348 345 32 25 22 
Investment and brokerage services
Asset management fees — — — — — — (16) (33) — 
Brokerage fees 74 34 94 1,973 1,738 1,780 — — 8 
Total investment and brokerage services 74 34 94 1,973 1,738 1,780 (16) (33) 8 
Investment banking fees
Underwriting income 2,070 1,227 1,090 2,449 1,555 1,495 (212) (185) (198)
Syndication fees 482 574 648 379 610 698 — — 1 
Financial advisory services 1,458 1,336 1,153 163 123 103 — 1 — 
Total investment banking fees 4,010 3,137 2,891 2,991 2,288 2,296 (212) (184) (197)
Total fees and commissions 7,835 6,718 6,523 5,742 4,454 4,505 (195) (192) (168)
Market making and similar activities 103 235 260 8,471 7,065 7,260 (284) 1,615 1,368 
Other income (loss) 2,036 2,855 2,225 (93) 180 561 (3,127) (4,040) (3,457)
Total noninterest income $ 9,974 $ 9,808 $ 9,008 $14,120 $11,699 $12,326 $(3,606)$(2,617)$(2,257)
All Other  includes eliminations of intercompany transactions.(1)
(1)
Bank of America 168
Business Segment Reconciliations
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Segments’ total revenue, net of interest expense $ 89,599 $ 94,222 $ 93,255 
Adjustments :    
ALM activities 375 241 (325)
Liquidating businesses, eliminations and other (3,947) (2,624) (1,300)
FTE basis adjustment (499) (595) (610)
Consolidated revenue, net of interest expense $ 85,528 $ 91,244 $ 91,020 
Segments’ total net income 18,301 28,786 28,403 
Adjustments, net-of-tax :   
ALM activities 279 202 (222)
Liquidating businesses, eliminations and other (686) (1,558) (34)
Consolidated net income $ 17,894 $ 27,430 $ 28,147 
December 31
2020 2019
Segments’ total assets $ 2,555,486 $ 2,209,704 
Adjustments :   
ALM activities, including securities portfolio 1,176,071 721,806 
Elimination of segment asset allocations to match liabilities (977,685) (565,378)
Other 65,755 67,947 
Consolidated total assets $ 2,819,627 $ 2,434,079 
Adjustments include consolidated income, expense and asset amounts not specifically allocated to individual business segments.
NOTE 24 Parent Company Information
The following tables present the Parent Company-only financial information.
Condensed Statement of Income
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Income    
Dividends from subsidiaries:    
Bank holding companies and related subsidiaries $ 10,352 $ 27,820 $ 28,575 
Nonbank companies and related subsidiaries — — 91 
Interest from subsidiaries 8,825 9,502 8,425 
Other income (loss) (138) 74 (1,025)
Total income 19,039 37,396 36,066 
Expense    
Interest on borrowed funds from related subsidiaries 136 451 235 
Other interest expense 4,119 5,899 6,425 
Noninterest expense 1,651 1,641 1,600 
Total expense 5,906 7,991 8,260 
Income before income taxes and equity in undistributed earnings of subsidiaries 13,133 29,405 27,806 
Income tax expense (benefit) 649 341 (281)
Income before equity in undistributed earnings of subsidiaries 12,484 29,064 28,087 
Equity in undistributed earnings (losses) of subsidiaries:    
Bank holding companies and related subsidiaries 5,372 (1,717) 306 
Nonbank companies and related subsidiaries 38 83 (246)
Total equity in undistributed earnings of subsidiaries 5,410 (1,634) 60 
Net income $ 17,894 $ 27,430 $ 28,147 (1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
169 Bank of America
Condensed Balance Sheet
 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Assets   
Cash held at bank subsidiaries $ 5,893 $ 5,695 
Securities 701 656 
Receivables from subsidiaries:
Bank holding companies and related subsidiaries 206,566 173,301 
Banks and related subsidiaries 213 51 
Nonbank companies and related subsidiaries 410 391 
Investments in subsidiaries:
Bank holding companies and related subsidiaries 305,818 297,465 
Nonbank companies and related subsidiaries 3,715 3,663 
Other assets 9,850 9,438 
Total assets $ 533,166 $ 490,660 
Liabilities and shareholders’ equity   
Accrued expenses and other liabilities $ 15,965 $ 13,381 
Payables to subsidiaries:
Banks and related subsidiaries 129 458 
Nonbank companies and related subsidiaries 11,067 12,102 
Long-term debt 233,081 199,909 
Total liabilities 260,242 225,850 
Shareholders’ equity 272,924 264,810 
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $ 533,166 $ 490,660 
Balance includes third-party cash held of $ 7 million and $ 4 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Condensed Statement of Cash Flows
(Dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Operating activities    
Net income $ 17,894 $ 27,430 $ 28,147 
Reconciliation of net income to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities:    
Equity in undistributed (earnings) losses of subsidiaries (5,410) 1,634 (60)
Other operating activities, net 14,303 16,973 (3,706)
Net cash provided by operating activities 26,787 46,037 24,381 
Investing activities    
Net sales (purchases) of securities (4) (17) 51 
Net payments to subsidiaries (33,111) (19,121) (2,262)
Other investing activities, net (7) 7 48 
Net cash used in investing activities (33,122) (19,131) (2,163)
Financing activities    
Net increase (decrease) in other advances (422) (1,625) 3,867 
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 43,766 29,315 30,708 
Retirement of long-term debt (23,168) (21,039) (29,413)
Proceeds from issuance of preferred stock 2,181 3,643 4,515 
Redemption of preferred stock (1,072) (2,568) (4,512)
Common stock repurchased (7,025) (28,144) (20,094)
Cash dividends paid (7,727) (5,934) (6,895)
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 6,533 (26,352) (21,824)
Net increase in cash held at bank subsidiaries 198 554 394 
Cash held at bank subsidiaries at January 1 5,695 5,141 4,747 
Cash held at bank subsidiaries at December 31 $ 5,893 $ 5,695 $ 5,141 (1)
(1)
Bank of America 170
NOTE 25 Performance by Geographical Area
The Corpo ration’ s operations are highly integrated with
operations in both U.S. and non-U.S. markets. The non-U.S.
business activities are largely conducted in Europe, the Middle
East and Africa and in Asia. The Corporatio n identifies its
geographic performance based on the busines s unit structure
used to manage the capital or expense deployed in the regionas applicable. This requires certain judgments related to the
allocation of revenue so that revenue can be appropriately
matched with the related capital or expense deployed in the
region. Certain asset, liability , income and expense amounts
have been allocated to arrive at total assets, total revenue, net
of interest expense, income before income taxes and net income
by geographic area as presented below .
(Dollars in millions)  Total Assets at
Year EndTotal Revenue,
Net of Interest
ExpenseIncome Before
Income Taxes Net Income
U.S. 2020 $ 2,490,247 $ 75,576 $ 18,247 $ 16,692 
 2019 2,122,734 81,236 30,699 25,937 
 2018 80,777 31,904 26,407 
Asia 2020 99,283 4,232 1,051 788 
 2019 102,440 3,491 765 570 
 2018 3,507 865 520 
Europe, Middle East and Africa 2020 202,701 4,491 (596) 264 
 2019 178,889 5,310 921 672 
 2018 5,632 1,543 1,126 
Latin America and the Caribbean 2020 27,396 1,229 293 150 
 2019 30,016 1,207 369 251 
 2018 1,104 272 94 
Total Non-U.S. 2020 329,380 9,952 748 1,202 
 2019 311,345 10,008 2,055 1,493 
 2018 10,243 2,680 1,740 
Total Consolidated 2020 $ 2,819,627 $ 85,528 $ 18,995 $ 17,894 
 2019 2,434,079 91,244 32,754 27,430 
 2018 91,020 34,584 28,147 
Total assets include long-lived assets, which are primarily located in the U.S.
There were no material intercompany revenues between geographic regions for any of the periods presented.
Substantially reflects the U.S. (1)  (2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
171 Bank of America
Glossary
Alt-A Mortgage – A type of U.S. mortgage that is considered
riskier than A-paper , or “prime,” and less risky than “subprime,”
the riskiest category . Typically , Alt-A mortgages are
characterized by borrowers with less than full documentation,
lower credit scores and higher L TVs.
Assets Under Management (AUM) – The total market value  of
assets under the investment advisory and/or discretion of GWIM
which generate asset management fees based on a percentage
of the assets’ market values. AUM reflects assets that are
generally managed for institutional, high net worth and retail
clients, and are distributed through various investment products
including mutual funds, other commingled vehicles and separate
accounts.
Banking Book  – All on- and off-balance sheet financial
instruments of the Corporation except for those positions that
are held for trading purposes.
Brokerage and Other Assets  – Non-discretionary client assets
which are held in brokerage accounts or held for safekeeping.
Committed Credit Exposure  – Any funde d portion of a facility
plus the unfunded portion of a facility on which the lender is
legally boun d to advance funds during a specified period under
prescribed conditions.
Credit Derivatives – Contractual agreements that provide
protection against a specified credit event on one or more
referenced obligations.
Credit Valuation Adjus tment (CVA) – A portfolio adjustment
required to properly reflect the counterparty credit risk exposure
as part of the fair value of derivative instruments.
Debit Valuation Adjustment (DVA) – A portfolio adjustment
required to properly reflect the Corporation’ s own credit risk
exposure as part of the fair value of derivative instruments
and/or structured liabilities.
Funding Valuation Adju stment (FVA) – A portfolio adjustment
required to include funding costs on uncollateralized derivatives
and derivati ves where the Corporation is not permitted to use
the collateral it receives.
Interest Rate Lock Commitment (IRLC)  – Commitment with a
loan applicant in which  the loan terms are guaranteed for a
designated period of time subject to credit approval.
Letter of Credit  – A document issued on behalf of a customer to
a third party promising to pay the third party upon presentation
of specified documents. A letter of credit effectively substitutes
the issuer ’s credit for that of the customer .
Loan-to-value (LTV) – A commo nly used credit quality metric.
LTV is calculated as the outstanding carrying value of the loan
divided by the estimated value of the property securing the loan.Margin Receivable  – An extension of credit secured by eligible
securities in certain brokerage accounts.
Matched Book  – Repurc hase and resale agreements or
securities borrowed and loaned transactions where the overall
asset and liability position is similar in size and/or maturity .
Generally , these are entered into to accommo date customers
where the Corporation earns the interest rate spread.
Mortgage Servicing Rights (MSR) – The right to service a
mortgage loan when the underlying loan is sold or securitized.
Servicing includes collections for principal, interest and escrow
payments from borrowers and accounting for and remitting
principal and interest payments to investors.
Nonperforming Loans and Leases  – Includes loans and
leases that have been placed on nonaccrual status, including
nonaccruing loans whose contractual terms have been
restructured in a manner that grants a concession to a borrower
experiencing financial dif ficulties.
Prompt Corrective Action (PCA)  – A framework established by
the U.S. banking regulators requiring banks to maintain certain
levels of regulatory capital ratios, comprised of five categories of
capitalization: “well capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,”
“undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically
undercapitalized.” Insure d depository institutions that fail to meet
certain of these capital levels are subject to increasingly strict
limits on their activities , including their ability to make capital
distributions, pay management compensation, grow assets and
take other actions.
Subprime Loans  – Although a standard industry definition for
subprime loans (includin g subprime mortgage loans) does not
exist, the Corporation defines subprime loans as specific product
offerings for higher risk borrowers.
Troubled Debt Restructurings (TDRs)  – Loans whose
contractual terms have been restructured in a manner that
grants a concession to a borrower experie ncing financial
difficulties. Certain consumer loans for which a binding offer to
restructure has been extended are also classified as TDRs.
Value-at-Risk (VaR) – VaR is a model that simulates the value
of a portfolio under a range of hypothetical scenarios in order to
generate a distribution of potential gains and losses. VaR
represents the loss the portfolio is expected to experience with a
given confid ence level based on historical data. A VaR model is
an effective tool in estimating ranges of potential gains and
losses on our trading portfolios.
Bank of America 172
Key Metrics
Active Digital Banking Users – Mobile and/or online users with
activity at period end.
Active Mobile Banking Users – Mobile users with activity at
period end.
Book Value – Ending common shareholders' equity divided by
ending common shares outstanding.
Deposit Spread – Annualized net interest income divided by
average deposits.
Efficiency Ratio – Nonintere st expense divided by total
revenue, net of interest expense.
Financial advisor productivity – Adjusted MLGWM annualized
revenue divided by average financial advisors.
Gross Interest Y ield – Effective annual percentage rate divided
by average loans.
Net Interest Yield – Net interest income divided by average
total interest-earning assets.Operating Margin  – Income before income taxes divided by
total revenue, net of interest expense.
Risk-adjusted Margi n – Difference between total revenue, net
of interest expense, and net credit losses divided by average
loans.
Return on Average Allocated Capital – Adjusted net income
divided by allocated capital.
Return on Average Assets  – Net income divided by total
average assets.
Return on Average Common Shareholders ' Equity  – Net
income applicable to common shareholders divided by average
common shareholders' equity .
Return on Average Shareholders' Equity  – Net income
divided by average shareholders' equity .
173 Bank of America
Acronyms
ABS Asset-backed securities
AFS Available-for-sale
AI Artificial intelligence
ALM Asset and liability management
ARR Alternative reference rates
AUM Assets under management
AVM Automated valuation model
BANA Bank of America, National Association
BHC Bank holding company
BofAS BofA Securities, Inc.
BofASE BofA Securities Europe SA
bps basis points
CAE Chief Audit Executive
CAO Chief Administrative Of ficer
CCAR Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review
CDO Collateralized debt obligation
CDS Credit default swap
CECL Current expected credit losses
CET1 Common equity tier 1
CFPB Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
CFTC Commodity Futures T rading Commission
CLO Collateralized loan obligation
CLTV Combined loan-to-value
CRO Chief Risk Of ficer
CVA Credit valuation adjustment
DIF Deposit Insurance Fund
DVA Debit valuation adjustment
ECL Expected credit losses
EMRC Enterprise Model Risk Committee
EPS Earnings per common share
ERC Enterprise Risk Committee
ESG Environmental, social and governance
EU European Union
FCA Financial Conduct Authority
FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
FDICIA Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Improvement Act of 1991
FHA Federal Housing Administration
FHLB Federal Home Loan Bank
FHLMC Freddie Mac
FICC Fixed income, currencies and commodities
FICO Fair Isaac Corporation (credit score)
FLUs Front line units
FNMA Fannie Mae
FTE Fully taxable-equivalent
FVA Funding valuation adjustment
GAAP Accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America
GDPR General Data Protection Regulation
GLS Global Liquidity Sources
GNMA Government National Mortgage AssociationG-SIB Global systemically important bank
GSE Government-sponsored enterprise
GWIM Global W ealth & Investment Management
HELOC Home equity line of credit
HQLA High Quality Liquid Assets
HTM Held-to-maturity
IBOR Interbank Of fered Rates
ICAAP Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process
IRLC Interest rate lock commitment
IRM Independent Risk Management
ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association,
Inc.
LCR Liquidity Coverage Ratio
LHFS Loans held-for-sale
LIBOR London Interbank Of fered Rate
LTV Loan-to-value
MBS Mortgage-backed securities
MD&A Management’ s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations
MLGWM Merrill L ynch Global W ealth Management
MLI Merrill L ynch International
MLPCC Merrill L ynch Professional Clearing Corp
MLPF&S Merrill L ynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
MRC Management Risk Committee
MSA Metropolitan Statistical Area
MSR Mortgage servicing right
NOL Net operating loss
NSFR Net Stable Funding Ratio
OCC Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
OCI Other comprehensive income
OREO Other real estate owned
OTC Over-the-counter
PCA Prompt Corrective Action
PPP Paycheck Protection Program
RMBS Residential mortgage-backed securities
RSU Restricted stock unit
RWA Risk -weighted assets
SBA Small Business Administration
SBLC Standby letter of credit
SCB Stress capital buf fer
SCCL Single-counterparty credit limits
SEC Securities and Exchange Commission
SLR Supplementary leverage ratio
SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate
SONIA Sterling Overnight Index A verage
TDR Troubled debt restructurings
TLAC Total loss-absorbing capacity
VA U.S. Department of V eterans Af fairs
VaR Value-at-Risk
VIE Variable interest entity
Bank of America 174
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with
Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure
None
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
As of the end of the period covered by this report and pursuant
to Rule 13a-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (Exchange Act), Bank of America’ s management,
including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer,
conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness and design of our
disclosure controls and procedures (as that term is defined in
Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act). Based upon that
evaluation, Bank of America’ s Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer concluded that Bank of America’ s disclosure
controls and procedures were effective, as of the end of the
period covered by this report.
Report of Management on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting
The Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting is set forth on page 94 and incorporated herein by
reference. The Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm with respect to the Corporation’ s internal
control over financial reporting is set forth on pages 95 and 96
and incorporated herein by reference.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
There have been no changes in our internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange
Act) during the quarter ended December 31, 2020, that
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect,
our internal control over financial reporting.
Item 9B. Other Information
None
Part III
Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and
Corporate Governance
Information about our Executive Officers
The name, age, position and office, and business experience
during the last five years of our current executive of ficers are:
Dean C. Athanasia (54) President, Retail and Preferred &
Small Business Banking since January 2019 ; Co-Head --
Consumer Banking from September 2014 to January 2019;
and Preferred and Small Business Banking Executive from April
2011 to September 2014.
Catherine P. Bessant (60) Chief Operations and
Technology Officer since July 2015; Glob al Technology &
Operations Executive from March 2010 to July 2015.
Sheri Bronstein (52) Chief Human Resources Officer
since Janua ry 2019; Global Human Resources  Executive from
July2015 to January 2019; and HR Executive for Global Banking &
Markets from March 2010 to July 2015.
Paul M. Donofrio (60) Chief Financial Officer since August
2015; Strategic Finance Executive from April 2015 to August
2015; and Head of Global Corporate Credit and Transaction
Banking from January 2012 to April 2015.
Geoffrey S. Greener (56) Chief Risk Officer  since April
2014; Head of Enterprise Capital Management from April 2011
to April 2014.
Kathleen A. Knox (57) President, Private Bank since
November 2017; Head of Business Banking from October 2014
to November 2017; and Retail Banking & Distribution Executive
from June 2011 to October 2014.
David G. Leitch (60) Global General Counsel since January
2016; General Counsel of Ford Motor Company from April 2005
to December 2015.
Thomas K. Montag (64) Chief Operating Officer  since
September 2014; Co-Chief Operating Officer from September
2011  to September 2014.
Brian T. Moynihan (61) Chairman of the Board  since
October 2014, and President, Chief Executive Officer, and
member of the Board of Directors since January 2010.
Thong M. Nguyen (62) Vice Chairman, Bank of America
Corporation  since January 2019; Co-Head -- Consumer
Banking from September 2014 to January 2019; Retail Banking
Executive from April 2014 to September 2014; and Retail
Strategy , and Operations & Digital Banking Executive from
September 2012 to April 2014.
Andrew M. Sieg (53) President, Merrill Lynch Wealth
Management since January 2017; and Head of Global Wealth &
Retirement Solutions with Merrill Lynch from October 2011 to
January 2017.
Andrea B. Smith (54) Chief Administrative Officer since
August 2015; Global Head of Human Resources from January
2010 to August 2015.
Information included under the following captions in the
Corporation’ s proxy statement relating to its 2021 annual
meeting of stockholde rs (the 2021 Proxy Statement) is
incorporated herein by reference:
●    “Proposal 1: Electing directors – Our director nominees;”
●    “Corporate governance – Additional corporate governance
information;”
● “Corporate governance – Committees and membership;” and
●    “Corporate governance – Board meetings and attendance.”
Item 11. Executive Compensation
Information included under the following captions in the 2021
Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference:
●    “Compensation discussion and analysis;”
●    “Compensation and Human Capital Committee report;”
●    “Executive compensation;”
●    “Corporate governance;” and
●    “Director compensation.”
175 Bank of America
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters
Information included under the following caption in the 2021 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference:
●    “Stock ownership of directors, executive of ficers, and certain beneficial owners.”
The table below presents information on equity compensation plans at December 31, 2020:
Plan Category (a) Number of Shares to
 be Issued Under
 Outstanding Options,
Warrants and Rights (b) Weighted-average
Exercise Price of
Outstanding Options,
Warrants and Rights (c) Number of Shares
Remaining for Future
Issuance Under Equity
Compensation Plans
(excluding securities
reflected in column (a)) 
Plans approved by shareholders 170,180,053 — 226,282,786 
Plans not approved by shareholders — — — 
Total 170,180,053 — 226,282,786 
This table  does not include 692,622 vested restricted stock units and stock option gain deferrals at December 31, 2020 that were assumed by the Corporation in connection with prior acquisitions
under whose plans the awards were originally granted.
Consists of outstanding restricted stock units. Includes 2,314,352 vested restricted stock units subject to a required twelve-month holding period.
Restricted stock units do not have an exercise price and are delivered without any payment or consideration.
Amount represents shares of common stock available for future issuance under the Bank of America Corporation Key Employee Equity Plan.
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions, and Director Independence
Information included under the following captions in the 2021
Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference:
●    “Related person and certain other transactions;” and
●    “Corporate governance – Director independence.”Item 14.  Principal Accounting Fees and
Services
Information included under the following caption in the 2021
Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference:
●    “Proposal 3: Ratifyin g the appointment of our independent
registered public accounting firm for 2021.”(1)(2) (3) (4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Bank of America 176
Part IV
Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules     
The following documents are filed as part of this report:
(1) Financial Statements:
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018
Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2020 and 2019
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
(2) Schedules:
None
(3) Index to Exhibits
With the exception of the information expressly incorporated herein by reference, the 2021 Proxy Statement shall not be deemed
filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Incorporated by Reference
Exhibit
No. Description Notes FormExhibitFiling Date File No.
3.1 Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended and in effect on the date hereof 1
3.2 Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Corporation as in effect on the date hereof 10-Q 3(b) 10/30/20 1-6523
4.1 Indenture dated as of January 1, 1995 between registrant (successor to NationsBank
Corporation) and BankAmerica National Trust CompanyS-3 4.1 2/1/95 33-57533
4.2 First Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 18, 1998 between registrant and U.S. Bank
Trust National Association (successor to BankAmerica National Trust Company) to the indenture
dated as of January 1, 1995 (See Exhibit 4.1)8-K 4.3 11/18/98 1-6523
4.3 Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 7, 2001 between registrant, U.S. Bank
Trust National Association, as Prior Trustee, and The Bank of New York, as Successor Trustee to
the indenture dated as of January 1, 1995 (See Exhibit 4.1)8-K 4.4 6/14/01 1-6523
4.4 Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 28, 2004 between registrant and The Bank of New
York to the indenture dated as of January 1, 1995 (See Exhibit 4.1)8-K 4.2 8/27/04 1-6523
4.5 Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 28, 2006 between the registrant and The Bank
of New York to the indenture dated as of January 1, 1995 (See Exhibit 4.1)S-3 4.6 5/5/06 333-133852
4.6 Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 1, 2008 between registrant and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (successor to The Bank of New York) to the indenture
dated as of January 1, 1995 (See Exhibit 4.1)8-K 4.1 12/5/08 1-6523
4.7 Sixth Supplemental Indenture dated as of February 23, 2011 between registrant and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. to the indenture dated as of January 1, 1995 (See Exhibit
4.1)10-K 4(ee) 2/25/11 1-6523
4.8 Seventh Supplemental Indenture dated as of January 13, 2017 between registrant and The Bank
of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. to the indenture dated as of January 1, 1995 (See
Exhibit 4.1)8-K 4.1 1/13/17 1-6523
4.9 Eighth Supplemental Indenture dated as of February 23, 2017 between registrant and the Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. to the indenture dated as of January 1, 1995 (See Exhibit
4.1)10-K 4(a) 2/23/17 1-6523
4.10 Successor Trustee Agreement effective December 15, 1995 between registrant (successor to
NationsBank Corporation) and First Trust of New York, National Association, as successor trustee
to BankAmerica National Trust CompanyS-3 4.2 6/28/96 333-07229
4.11 Agreement of Appointment and Acceptance dated as of December 29, 2006 between registrant
and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.10-K4(aaa) 2/28/07 1-6523
4.12 Form of Senior Registered Note S-3 4.12 5/1/15 333-202354
4.13 Form of Global Senior Medium-Term Note, Series L S-3 4.13 5/1/15 333-202354
4.14 Form of Master Global Senior Medium-Term Note, Series L S-3 4.14 5/1/15 333-202354
4.15 Form of Global Senior Medium-Term Note, Series M 8-K 4.2 1/13/17 1-6523
4.16 Form of Master Global Senior Medium-Term Note, Series M 8-K 4.3 1/13/17 1-6523
4.17 Indenture dated as of January 1, 1995 between registrant (successor to NationsBank
Corporation) and The Bank of New YorkS-3 4.5 2/1/95 33-57533
4.18 First Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 28, 1998 between registrant and The Bank of
New York to the indenture dated as of January 1, 1995 (See Exhibit 4.17)8-K 4.8 11/18/98 1-6523
177 Bank of America
Incorporated by Reference
Exhibit
No. Description Notes FormExhibitFiling Date File No.
4.19 Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of January 25, 2007 between registrant and The Bank
of New York Trust Company, N.A. (successor to The Bank of New York) to the indenture dated as
of January 1, 1995 (See Exhibit 4.17)S-4 4.3 3/16/07 333-141361
4.20 Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of February 23, 2011 between registrant and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (formerly The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.) to
the indenture dated as of January 1, 1995 (See Exhibit 4.17)10-K 4(ff) 2/25/11 1-6523
4.21 Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of February 23, 2017 between registrant and The Bank
of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. to the indenture dated as of January 1, 1995 (See
Exhibit 4.17)10-K 4(i) 2/23/17 1-6523
4.22 Indenture dated as of June 27, 2018 between the registrant and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A.
 S-3 4.3 6/27/18 333-224523
4.23 Form of Global Senior Medium-Term Note, Series N S-3 4.4 6/27/18 333-224523
4.24 Form of Master Global Senior Medium-Term Note, Series N S-3 4.5 6/27/18 333-224523
4.25 Indenture dated as of June 27, 2018 between the registrant and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A.S-3 4.6 6/27/18 333-224523
4.26 Form of Global Subordinated Medium-Term Note, Series N S-3 4.7 6/27/18 333-224523
Registrant and its subsidiaries have other long-term debt agreements, but these are omitted
pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K. Copies of these agreements will be furnished to
the Commission on request
4.27 Description of the Corporation's Securities 1
10.1 Bank of America Pension Restoration Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009
(Pension Restoration Plan)2 10-K 10(c) 2/27/09 1-6523
10.2 First Amendment to the Pension Restoration Plan dated December 18, 2009
 2 10-K 10(c) 2/26/10 1-6523
10.3 Second Amendment to the Pension Restoration Plan dated June 29, 2012 2 10-K 10(a) 2/28/13 1-6523
10.4 Third Amendment to the Pension Restoration Plan dated March 26, 2013 2 10-K 10.4 2/19/20 1-6523
10.5 Fourth Amendment to the Pension Restoration Plan dated August 22, 2013 2 10-K 10.5 2/19/20 1-6523
10.6 Fifth Amendment to the Pension Restoration Plan dated December 5, 2014
 2 10-K 10.6 2/19/20 1-6523
10.7 Sixth Amendment to the Pension Restoration Plan dated December 15, 2016
 2 10-K 10.7 2/19/20 1-6523
10.8 NationsBank Corporation Benefit Security Trust dated as of June 27, 1990 2 10-K 10(t) 3/27/91 1-6523
10.9 First Supplement to NationsBank Corporation Benefit Security Trust dated as of 
 November 30, 19922 10-K 10(v) 3/24/93 1-6523
10.10 NationsBank Corporation Benefit Security Trust Trustee Removal/Appointment Agreement dated
as of December 19, 19952 10-K 10(o) 3/29/96 1-6523
10.11 Bank of America Deferred Compensation Plan (formerly known as the Bank of America 401(k)
Restoration Plan) as amended and restated effective January 1, 20152 10-K 10(c) 2/25/15 1-6523
10.12 First Amendment to the Bank of America Deferred Compensation Plan (formerly known as the
Bank of America 401(k) Restoration Plan), as amended and restated effective January 1, 20152 10-K10(vv) 2/24/16 1-6523
10.13 Second Amendment to the Bank of America Deferred Compensation Plan (formerly known as the
Bank of America 401(k) Restoration Plan), as amended and restated effective January 1, 20152 S-8 4(c) 11/19/19 333-234780
10.14 Third Amendment to the Bank of America Deferred Compensation Plan (formerly known as the
Bank of America 401(k) Restoration Plan), as amended and restated effective January 1, 20152 10-K 10.142/19/20 1-6523
10.15 Fourth Amendment to the Bank of America Deferred Compensation Plan (formerly known as the
Bank of America 401(k) Restoration Plan), as amended and restated effective January 1, 20151,2
10.16 Bank of America Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective
December 10, 20022 10-K 10(g) 3/3/03 1-6523
10.17 Amendment to Bank of America Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, dated January 23, 2013 2 10-K 10(d) 2/28/13 1-6523
10.18 Bank of America Director Deferral Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2005 2 10-K 10(g) 2/28/07 1-6523
10.19 Bank of America Director Deferral Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2019 2 10-K 10(f) 2/26/19 1-6523
10.20 Bank of America Corporation Key Employee Equity Plan (formerly known as the Key Associate
Stock Plan), as amended and restated effective May 6, 2015 (2015 KEEP)2 8-K 10.2 5/7/15 1-6523
10.21 First Amendment to the 2015 KEEP dated December 19, 2018 2 10-K10(mm)2/26/19 1-6523
10.22 Second Amendment to the 2015 KEEP dated April 24, 2019 2 8-K 10.1 4/24/19 1-6523
10.23 Form of Cash-settled Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2016 and subsequent
grants) under the 2015 KEEP2 10-Q 10(a) 5/2/16 1-6523
10.24 Form of Performance Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2016) under the 2015
KEEP2 10-Q 10(c) 5/2/16 1-6523
Bank of America 178
Incorporated by Reference
Exhibit
No. Description Notes FormExhibitFiling Date File No.
10.25 Form of Time-based Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2017 and February
2018) under the 2015 KEEP
 2 10-Q 10(a) 5/2/17 1-6523
10.26 Form of Performance Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2018) under the 2015
KEEP2 10-Q 10 4/30/18 1-6523
10.27 Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the 2015 KEEP 2 10-K 10(h) 2/26/19 1-6523
10.28 Form of Time-based Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2019) under the 2015
KEEP
 2 10-Q 10(a) 4/26/19 1-6523
10.29 Form of Performance Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2019) under the 2015
KEEP2 10-Q 10(b) 4/26/19 1-6523
10.30 Form of Time-based Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2020) under the 2015
KEEP2 10-Q 10.1 5/1/20 1-6523
10.31 Form of Performance Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2020) under the 2015
KEEP2 10-Q 10.2 5/1/20 1-6523
10.32 ESA Retention Agreement dated March 15, 2004 between the Corporation and Dean C.
Athanasia2 10-Q 10(c) 4/26/19 1-6523
10.33 Amendment to various plans in connection with FleetBoston Financial Corporation merger dated
October 27, 20032 10-K 10(v) 3/1/04 1-6523
10.34 FleetBoston Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan effective December 31, 2004 2 10-K 10(r) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.35 FleetBoston Executive Deferred Compensation Plan No. 2 effective December 16, 2003 2 10-K 10(u) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.36 FleetBoston Executive Supplemental Plan effective December 31, 2004 2 10-K 10(v) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.37 Retirement Income Assurance Plan for Legacy Fleet, as amended and restated effective
January 1, 20092 10-K 10(p) 2/26/10 1-6523
10.38 First Amendment to the Retirement Income Assurance Plan for Legacy Fleet, as amended and
restated effective January 1, 20092 10-K 10(I) 2/28/13 1-6523
10.39 Officer's Certificate of Global Compensation, Benefits and Shared Services Executive Regarding
Wanger Divestiture2 10-K 10(c) 2/25/11 1-6523
10.40 Trust Agreement for the FleetBoston Executive Deferred Compensation Plans No. 1 and 2 dated
December 17, 19972 10-K 10(x) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.41 Trust Agreement for the FleetBoston Executive Supplemental Plan dated June 19, 1996 2 10-K 10(y) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.42 Trust Agreement for the FleetBoston Retirement Income Assurance Plan and the FleetBoston
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan dated June 19, 19962 10-K 10(z) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.43 FleetBoston Directors Deferred Compensation and Stock Unit Plan effective January 1, 2004 2 10-K10(aa) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.44 BankBoston Corporation and its Subsidiaries Deferred Compensation Plan dated December 24,
20012 10-K10(cc) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.45 BankBoston Director Stock Award Plan effective July 1, 1998 2 10-K10(hh) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.46 BankBoston Corporation Directors’ Deferred Compensation Plan effective March 1, 1988 2 10-K 10(ii) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.47 BankBoston, N.A. Directors’ Deferred Compensation Plan effective March 1, 1988 2 10-K 10(jj) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.48 Description of BankBoston Director Retirement Benefits Exchange Program 2 10-K 10(ll) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.49 Global amendment to definition of “change in control” or “change of control,” together with a list of
plans affected by such amendment2 10-K10(oo) 3/1/05 1-6523
10.50 Employment Agreement dated October 27, 2003 between registrant and Brian T. Moynihan 2 S-4 10(d) 12/4/03 333-110924
10.51 Cancellation Agreement dated October 26, 2005 between registrant and Brian T. Moynihan 2 8-K 10.1 10/26/05 1-6523
10.52 Agreement Regarding Participation in the Fleet Boston Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
dated October 26, 2005 between registrant and Brian T. Moynihan2 8-K 10.2 10/26/05 1-6523
10.53 Employment Letter dated May 1, 2008 between Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. and Thomas K. Montag
and Summary of Agreement with respect to Post-Employment Medical Coverage2 10-K10(bbb)2/26/10 1-6523
10.54 Securities Purchase Agreement dated August 25, 2011 between registrant and Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (including forms of the Certificate of Designations, Warrant and Registration Rights
Agreement)8-K 1.1 8/25/11 1-6523
10.55 Form of Waiver of Certain Incremental Payouts from Performance Restricted Stock Units 2 10-K 10(rr) 2/23/17 1-6523
10.56 Amended and Restated Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement (Multiple Aircraft) dated June 26, 2018
between Bank of America, N.A. and Brian T. Moynihan2 10-Q 10 7/30/18 1-6523
10.57 Form of Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement (Multiple Aircraft) between Bank of America, N.A. and
certain executive officers of the Corporation, including certain Named Executive Officers2 10-Q 10(b) 6/30/19 1-6523
21 Direct and Indirect Subsidiaries of Bank of America Corporation As of December 31, 2020
 1
22 Subsidiary Issuers of Guaranteed Securities 1
23 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 1
179 Bank of America
Incorporated by Reference
Exhibit
No. Description Notes FormExhibitFiling Date File No.
24 Power of Attorney 1
31.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
20021
31.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
20021
32.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 20021
32.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 20021
101.INSInline XBRL Instance Document 3
101.SCHInline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 1
101.CALInline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 1
101.LABInline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 1
101.PREInline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 1
101.DEFInline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definitions Linkbase Document 1
104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted as Inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101)
 Filed Herewith.
 Exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
 The instance document does not appear in the interactive data file because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document.(1)
(2)
(3)
Bank of America 180
Item 16. Form 10-K Summary
Not applicable.
Signatures
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 24, 2021
Bank of America Corporation
By: /s/ Brian T. Moynihan
Brian T. Moynihan
Chief Executive Officer
Pursuant to the requirem ents of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
Signature Title Date
/s/ Brian T. Moynihan Chief Executive Officer, Chairman and Director
 (Principal Executive Officer)February 24, 2021
Brian T. Moynihan
   
*/s/ Paul M. Donofrio Chief Financial Officer
 (Principal Financial Officer)February 24, 2021
Paul M. Donofrio
   
*/s/ Rudolf A. Bless Chief Accounting Officer
 (Principal Accounting Officer)February 24, 2021
Rudolf A. Bless
   
*/s/ Sharon L. AllenDirector February 24, 2021
Sharon L. Allen
*/s/ Susan S. BiesDirector February 24, 2021
Susan S. Bies
*/s/ Jack O. Bovender, Jr.Director February 24, 2021
Jack O. Bovender, Jr.
   
*/s/ Frank P. Bramble, Sr.Director February 24, 2021
Frank P. Bramble, Sr.
   
*/s/ Pierre de WeckDirector February 24, 2021
Pierre de Weck
   
*/s/ Arnold W. DonaldDirector February 24, 2021
Arnold W. Donald
*/s/ Linda P. HudsonDirector February 24, 2021
Linda P. Hudson
*/s/ Monica C. LozanoDirector February 24, 2021
Monica C. Lozano
181 Bank of America
Signature Title Date
   
*/s/ Thomas J. MayDirector February 24, 2021
Thomas J. May
*/s/ Lionel L. Nowell, IIIDirector February 24, 2021
Lionel L. Nowell, III
*/s/ Denise L. RamosDirector February 24, 2021
Denise L. Ramos
*/s/ Clayton S. RoseDirector February 24, 2021
Clayton S. Rose
*/s/ Michael D. WhiteDirector February 24, 2021
Michael D. White
*/s/ Thomas D. WoodsDirector February 24, 2021
Thomas D. Woods
*/s/ R. David YostDirector February 24, 2021
R. David Yost
   
*/s/ Maria T. ZuberDirector February 24, 2021
Maria T. Zuber
*By /s/ Ross E. Jeffries, Jr.  
Ross E. Jeffries, Jr.
 Attorney-in-Fact
Bank of America 182
