UNITED ST ATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGT ON, D.C. 20549
FORM 10-K
Annual report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
For the fiscal year ended Commission file
December 31, 2019 number1-5805
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware  13-2624428
(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)  (I.R.S. employer
identification no.)
383 Madison Avenue,  
New York,New York  10179
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (212) 270-6000
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class Trading Symbol(s) Name of each exchange on which registered
Common stock JPM The New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares, each representing a one-four hundredth interest in a share of 6.125% Non-
Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series YJPM PR F The New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares, each representing a one-four hundredth interest in a share of 6.10% Non-Cumulative
Preferred Stock, Series AAJPM PR G The New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares, each representing a one-four hundredth interest in a share of 6.15% Non-Cumulative
Preferred Stock, Series BBJPM PR H The New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares, each representing a one-four hundredth interest in a share of 5.75% Non-Cumulative
Preferred Stock, Series DDJPM PR D The New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares, each representing a one-four hundredth interest in a share of 6.00% Non-Cumulative
Preferred Stock, Series EEJPM PR C The New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares, each representing a one-four hundredth interest in a share of
4.75% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series GGJPM PR J The New York Stock Exchange
Alerian MLP Index ETNs due May 24, 2024 AMJ NYSE Arca, Inc.
Guarantee of Callable Step-Up Fixed Rate Notes due April 26, 2028 of JPMorgan Chase Financial
Company LLCJPM/28 The New York Stock Exchange
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. ☐ Yes ☒ No
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. ☐ Yes ☒ No
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. ☒ Yes ☐ No
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§
232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). ☒ Yes ☐ No
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth
company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
☒ Large accelerated filer ☐ Accelerated filer ☐ Non-accelerated filer ☐Smaller reporting company ☐Emerging growth company
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial
accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). ☐ Yes ☒ No
The aggregate market value of JPMorgan Chase & Co. common stock held by non-affiliates as of June 30, 2019: $354,989,423,493
Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of January 31, 2020: 3,073,976,616
Documents incorporated by reference: Portions of the registrant’s Proxy Statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on May 19, 2020, are incorporated by
reference in this Form 10-K in response to Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of Part III.
Form 10-K Index
Part I  Page
Item 1. Business . 1
 Overview 1
 Business segments 1
 Competition 1
 Supervision and regulation 1–6
 Distribution of assets, liabilities and stockholders’  equity; interest rates and interest dif ferentials 288–292
 Return on equity and assets 40, 287, 288
 Investment securities portfolio 300
 Loan portfolio 100–1 15, 217–236,
301–306
 Summary of loan and lending-related commitments loss experience 116–1 17, 237–241,
307–308
 Deposits 254, 309
 Short-term and other borrowed funds 310
Item 1A. Risk Factors. 6–28
Item 1B. Unresolved Staf f Comments. 28
Item 2. Properties. 29
Item 3. Legal Proceedings. 29
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 29
   
Part II   
Item 5. Market for Registrant’ s Common Equity , Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities. 30
Item 6. Selected Financial Data. 30
Item 7. Management’ s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 30
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 30
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 30
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 31
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. 31
Item 9B. Other Information. 31
   
Part III   
Item 10. Directors, Executive Of ficers and Corporate Governance. 32
Item 1 1. Executive Compensation. 33
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 33
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 33
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services. 33
   
Part IV   
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. 34-37
Part I
Item 1. Business.
Overview
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“JPMorgan Chase” or the “Firm”,
NYSE: JPM), a financial holding company incorporated under
Delaware law in 1968, is a leading global financial services
firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the United
States of America (“U.S.”), with operations worldwide;
JPMorgan Chase had $2.7 trillion in assets and $261.3 billion
in stockholders’ equity as of December 31, 2019. The Firm is a
leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers
and small businesses, commercial banking, financial
transaction processing and asset management. Under the J.P.
Morgan and Chase brands, the Firm serves millions of
customers in the U.S. and many of the world’s most prominent
corporate, institutional and government clients.
JPMorgan Chase’s principal bank subsidiary is JPMorgan
Chase Bank, National Association (“JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A.”), a national banking association with U.S. branches in
38 states and Washington, D.C. as of December 31, 2019.
JPMorgan Chase’s principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P. Morgan
Securities LLC (“J.P. Morgan Securities”), a U.S. broker-
dealer. The bank and non-bank subsidiaries of JPMorgan
Chase operate nationally as well as through overseas branches
and subsidiaries, representative offices and subsidiary foreign
banks. The Firm’s principal operating subsidiary outside the
U.S. is J.P. Morgan Securities plc, a U.K.-based subsidiary of
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
The Firm’s website is www.jpmorganchase.com. JPMorgan
Chase makes available on its website, free of charge, annual
reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and
current reports on Form 8-K pursuant to Section 13(a) or
Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon
as reasonably practicable after it electronically files or
furnishes such material to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (the “SEC”) at www.sec.gov. The Firm has
adopted, and posted on its website, a Code of Conduct for all
employees of the Firm and a Code of Ethics for its Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Principal
Accounting Officer and all other professionals of the Firm
worldwide serving in a finance, accounting, treasury, tax or
investor relations role.
Business segments
For management reporting purposes, JPMorgan Chase’s
activities are organized into four major reportable business
segments, as well as a Corporate segment. The Firm’s
consumer business is the Consumer & Community Banking
(“CCB”) segment. The Firm’s wholesale business segments
are the Corporate & Investment Bank (“CIB”), Commercial
Banking (“CB”), and Asset & Wealth Management (“AWM”).
A description of the Firm’s business segments and the products
and services they provide to their respective client bases is
provided in the “Business segment results” section of
Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition
and results of operations (“Management’s discussion and analysis” or “MD&A”), beginning on page 42
and in Note 32.
Competition
JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries and affiliates operate in
highly competitive environments. Competitors include other
banks, brokerage firms, investment banking companies,
merchant banks, hedge funds, commodity trading companies,
private equity firms, insurance companies, mutual fund
companies, investment managers, credit card companies,
mortgage banking companies, trust companies, securities
processing companies, automobile financing companies,
leasing companies, e-commerce and other internet-based
companies, financial technology companies, and other
companies engaged in providing similar products and services.
The Firm’s businesses generally compete on the basis of the
quality and variety of the Firm’s products and services,
transaction execution, innovation, reputation and price.
Competition also varies based on the types of clients,
customers, industries and geographies served. With respect to
some of its geographies and products, JPMorgan Chase
competes globally; with respect to others, the Firm competes
on a national or regional basis.
Competition in the financial services industry continues to be
intense. In some cases, the Firm’s businesses compete with
other financial institutions that may have a stronger local
presence in certain geographies or that operate under different
rules and regulatory regimes than the Firm, and with
companies that provide new or innovative products or services,
including those that the Firm does not provide.
Supervision and regulation
The Firm is subject to extensive and comprehensive regulation
under U.S. federal and state laws, as well as the applicable
laws of the jurisdictions outside the U.S. in which the Firm
does business.
Financial holding company:
Consolidated supervision. JPMorgan Chase & Co. is a bank
holding company (“BHC”) and a financial holding company
(“FHC”) under U.S. federal law, and is subject to
comprehensive consolidated supervision, regulation and
examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System (the “Federal Reserve”). The Federal Reserve acts as
an “umbrella regulator,” and certain of JPMorgan Chase’s
subsidiaries are also regulated directly by additional authorities
based on the activities of those subsidiaries.
JPMorgan Chase’s national bank subsidiary, JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A., is supervised and regulated by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) and, with respect to
certain matters, by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(the “FDIC”).
JPMorgan Chase’s U.S. broker-dealers are supervised and
regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission
 1
Part I
(“SEC”) and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
(“FINRA”), and subsidiaries of the Firm that engage in certain
futures-related and swaps-related activities are supervised and
regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
(“CFTC”). J.P. Morgan Securities plc is a U.K.-based bank
regulated by the U.K. Prudential Regulation Authority (the
“PRA”) and the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”).
The Firm’s other non-U.S. subsidiaries are regulated by the
banking, securities, prudential and conduct regulatory
authorities in the countries in which they operate.
Permissible business activities. The Bank Holding Company
Act restricts BHCs from engaging in business activities other
than the business of banking and certain closely-related
activities. FHCs can engage in a broader range of financial
activities, including underwriting, dealing and making markets
in securities, and making merchant banking investments in
non-financial companies. The Federal Reserve has the
authority to limit an FHC’s ability to conduct otherwise
permissible activities if the FHC or any of its depository
institution subsidiaries ceases to meet applicable eligibility
requirements. The Federal Reserve may also impose corrective
capital and/or managerial requirements on the FHC, and if
deficiencies are persistent, may require divestiture of the
FHC’s depository institutions. If any depository institution
controlled by an FHC fails to maintain a satisfactory rating
under the Community Reinvestment Act, the Federal Reserve
must prohibit the FHC and its subsidiaries from engaging in
any activities other than those permissible for BHCs.
Capital and liquidity requirements. The Federal Reserve
establishes capital, liquidity and leverage requirements for
JPMorgan Chase and evaluates the Firm’s compliance with
those requirements. The OCC establishes similar requirements
for JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Banking supervisors globally
continue to refine and enhance the Basel III capital framework
for financial institutions.
In January 2019, the Basel Committee issued “Minimum
capital requirements for market risk,” which supersedes a
previous release from January 2016. The Basel Committee
expects national regulators to implement these revised market
risk requirements for banking organizations in their
jurisdictions by January 1, 2022, in line with the other
elements of the Basel III Reforms.
U.S. banking regulators have announced their support for the
issuance of the Basel III Reforms and are considering how to
appropriately apply such reforms in the U.S. Any changes to
U.S. capital rules based on the Basel III Reforms would first
be proposed for public comment. In 2018, the Federal Reserve
and the OCC released a proposal to revise the enhanced
supplementary leverage ratio (“eSLR”) requirements
applicable to the U.S. global systemically important banks
(“GSIBs”) and their insured depository institutions (“IDIs”)
and to make conforming changes to the rules which are
applicable to U.S. GSIBs relating to total loss-absorbing
capacity (“TLAC”) and external long-term debt that must satisfy certain eligibility criteria. Final
requirements have not yet been issued. In November 2019, the
U.S. banking regulators adopted a rule implementing
“Standardized Approach for Counterparty Credit Risk” (“SA-
CCR”), which will be effective in April 2020 and which has a
mandatory compliance date of January 1, 2022.
Under Basel III, bank holding companies and banks are
required to measure their liquidity against two specific
liquidity tests: the liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”) and the net
stable funding ratio (“NSFR”).  In 2016, the U.S. banking
regulators issued a proposed rule for NSFR, but no final rule
has been issued. 
Refer to Capital Risk Management on pages 85–92 and
Liquidity Risk Management on pages 93–98 .
Stress tests. As a large BHC, JPMorgan Chase is subject to
supervisory stress testing administered by the Federal Reserve
as part of the Federal Reserve’s annual Comprehensive Capital
Analysis and Review (“CCAR”) framework. The Firm must
conduct annual company-run stress tests and must also submit
an annual capital plan to the Federal Reserve, taking into
account the results of separate stress tests designed by the Firm
and the Federal Reserve. The Firm is required to receive a
notice of non-objection from the Federal Reserve each year
before taking capital actions, such as paying dividends,
implementing common equity repurchase programs or
redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments. The OCC
requires JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. to perform separate,
similar stress tests annually. The Firm publishes each year the
results of the annual stress tests for the Firm and JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. under the supervisory “severely adverse”
scenarios provided by the Federal Reserve and the OCC. The
Firm is required to file its 2020 annual CCAR submission on
April 6, 2020. Results will be published by the Federal
Reserve by June 30, 2020, with disclosures of results by
BHCs, including the Firm, to follow within 15 days.
In April 2018, the Federal Reserve proposed the introduction
of a stress buffer framework that would create a single,
integrated set of capital requirements by combining the
supervisory stress test results of the CCAR assessment and
those under the Dodd-Frank Act with current point-in-time
capital requirements. In December 2019, the Federal Reserve
indicated that it intends to have the stress buffer framework in
place for the 2020 stress tests. Final requirements have not yet
been issued.
Refer to Capital Risk Management on pages 85–92 for more
information concerning the Firm’s CCAR.
Enhanced prudential standards. As part of its mandate to
identify and monitor risks to the financial stability of the U.S.
posed by large banking organizations, the Financial Stability
Oversight Council (“FSOC”) recommends prudential
standards and reporting requirements to the Federal Reserve
for systemically important financial institutions (“SIFIs”), such
as JPMorgan Chase. The Federal Reserve has adopted several
rules to implement those heightened
2  
prudential standards, including rules relating to risk
management and corporate governance of subject BHCs.
Large BHCs such as JPMorgan Chase are required to comply
with enhanced liquidity and overall risk management
standards, including oversight by the board of directors of risk
management activities.
Resolution and recovery. The Firm is required to submit
periodically to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a plan for
resolution under Title I of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform
and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) in the event
of material distress or failure (a “resolution plan”). On
December 17, 2019, the Firm received feedback from the
Federal Reserve and FDIC on its 2019 resolution plan that set
forth certain expectations for further enhancement of the
Firm’s resolution capabilities and provided initial expectations
for the Firm’s next resolution plan, but did not identify
shortcomings or deficiencies. In the future, the Firm’s
resolution plan submissions will alternate between “targeted”
and “full” plans, with the Firm’s next “targeted” resolution
plan due to be filed on or before July 1, 2021. The Firm also
has a comprehensive recovery plan summarizing the actions it
would take to avoid failure by remaining well-capitalized and
well-funded in the case of an adverse event.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is also required to provide a
resolution plan to the FDIC. The FDIC has proposed changes
to its rules relating to the resolution plans of IDIs in an
advanced notice of proposed rulemaking. The OCC has
published guidelines establishing standards for recovery
planning by insured national banks, and JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A. has submitted its recovery plan to the OCC.
Certain of the Firm’s non-U.S. subsidiaries are also subject to
local resolution and recovery planning requirements.
Orderly liquidation authority. Certain financial companies,
including JPMorgan Chase and certain of its subsidiaries, can
also be subjected to resolution under an “orderly liquidation
authority.” The U.S. Treasury Secretary, in consultation with
the President of the United States, must first make certain
determinations concerning extraordinary financial distress and
systemic risk, and action must be recommended by the FDIC
and the Federal Reserve. Absent such actions, the Firm, as a
BHC, would remain subject to resolution under the
Bankruptcy Code. The FDIC has issued a draft policy
statement describing its “single point of entry” strategy for
resolution of SIFIs under the orderly liquidation authority,
which seeks to keep operating subsidiaries of a BHC open and
impose losses on shareholders and creditors of the BHC in
receivership according to their statutory order of priority.
Holding company as a source of strength. JPMorgan Chase &
Co. is required to serve as a source of financial strength for its
depository institution subsidiaries and to commit resources to
support those subsidiaries, including when directed to do so by
the Federal Reserve. Regulation of acquisitions. Acquisitions by BHCs and their
banks are subject to multiple requirements established by the
Federal Reserve and the OCC. For example, FHCs and BHCs
are required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve
before they may acquire more than 5% of the voting shares of
an unaffiliated bank. In addition, acquisitions by financial
companies are prohibited if, as a result of the acquisition, the
total liabilities of the financial company would exceed 10% of
the total liabilities of all financial companies. Furthermore, for
certain acquisitions, the Firm must provide written notice to
the Federal Reserve prior to acquiring direct or indirect
ownership or control of any voting shares of any company
with over $10 billion in assets that is engaged in activities that
are “financial in nature.”
Volcker Rule. The Volcker Rule prohibits banking entities,
including the Firm, from engaging in certain “proprietary
trading” activities, subject to exceptions for underwriting,
market-making, risk-mitigating hedging and certain other
activities. The Volcker Rule also limits the sponsorship of, and
investment in, “covered funds,” and imposes limits on certain
transactions between the Firm and covered funds for which a
JPMorgan Chase entity serves as the investment manager,
investment advisor, commodity trading advisor or sponsor, as
well as certain covered funds controlled by such funds. The
Volcker Rule requires banking entities to establish
comprehensive compliance programs reasonably designed to
help ensure and monitor compliance with the restrictions under
the Volcker Rule. In August 2019, the
Federal Reserve and other regulatory agencies finalized
revisions to the proprietary trading restrictions of the
Volcker Rule, including simplifications to the Volcker Rule’s
framework for demonstrating compliance with the
permitted activities under the rule. On January 30, 2020, the
agencies proposed revisions to the Volcker Rule’s provisions
relating to covered funds that would streamline the existing
exclusion for non-U.S. public funds and introduce new
exclusions for new classes of funds and from existing
prohibitions on engaging in “covered transactions” with
covered funds.
Consent orders. The Firm remains subject to consent orders
entered into with its banking regulators between 2014 and
2016 concerning foreign exchange trading and referral hiring
practices.
Subsidiary banks:
The activities of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., the Firm’s
principal subsidiary bank, are limited to those specifically
authorized under the National Bank Act and related
interpretations of the OCC. The OCC has authority to bring an
enforcement action against JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. for
unsafe or unsound banking practices, which could include
limiting JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.’s ability to conduct
otherwise permissible activities, or imposing corrective capital
and/or managerial requirements on the bank.
 3
Part I
FDIC deposit insurance. The FDIC deposit insurance fund
provides insurance coverage for certain deposits and is funded
through assessments on banks, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A.
FDIC powers upon a bank insolvency. Upon the insolvency of
an IDI, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., the FDIC could
be appointed as conservator or receiver under the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act. The FDIC has broad powers to transfer
assets and liabilities without the approval of the institution’s
creditors.
Prompt corrective action. The Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 requires the relevant
federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective action”
with respect to a depository institution if that institution does
not meet certain capital adequacy standards. Although these
regulations apply only to banks, such as JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A., the Federal Reserve is authorized to take
appropriate action against the parent BHC, such as JPMorgan
Chase & Co., based on the undercapitalized status of any bank
subsidiary. In certain instances, the BHC would be required to
guarantee the performance of the capital restoration plan for its
undercapitalized subsidiary.
OCC Heightened Standards. The OCC has established
guidelines setting forth heightened standards for large banks,
including minimum standards for the design and
implementation of a risk governance framework for banks.
Under these standards, a bank’s risk governance framework
must ensure that the bank’s risk profile is easily distinguished
and separate from that of its parent BHC for risk management
purposes. The bank’s board or risk committee is responsible
for approving the bank’s risk governance framework,
providing active oversight of the bank’s risk-taking activities,
and holding management accountable for adhering to the risk
governance framework.
Restrictions on transactions with affiliates. JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A. and its subsidiaries are subject to restrictions
imposed by federal law on extensions of credit to, investments
in stock or securities of, and derivatives, securities lending and
certain other transactions with, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
certain other affiliates. These restrictions prevent JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and other affiliates from borrowing from such
subsidiaries unless the loans are secured in specified amounts
and comply with certain other requirements.
Dividend restrictions. Federal law imposes limitations on the
payment of dividends by national banks, such as JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. Refer to Note 26 for the amount of
dividends that JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. could pay, at
January 1, 2020, to JPMorgan Chase without the approval of
the banking regulators. The OCC and the Federal Reserve also
have authority to prohibit or limit the payment of dividends of
a bank subsidiary that they supervise if, in the banking
regulator’s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an
unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of
the bank. Depositor preference. Under federal law, the claims of a
receiver of an IDI for administrative expense and the claims of
holders of U.S. deposit liabilities (including the FDIC and
deposits in non-U.S. branches that are dually payable in the
U.S. and in a non-U.S. branch) have priority over the claims of
other unsecured creditors of the institution, including
depositors in non-U.S. branches and public noteholders.
Consumer supervision and regulation. JPMorgan Chase and
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. are subject to supervision and
regulation by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
(“CFPB”) with respect to federal consumer protection laws,
including laws relating to fair lending and the prohibition of
unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices in connection
with the offer, sale or provision of consumer financial products
and services. The CFPB also has jurisdiction over small
business lending activities with respect to fair lending and the
Equal Credit Opportunity Act. As part of its regulatory
oversight, the CFPB has authority to take enforcement actions
against firms that offer certain products and services to
consumers using practices that are deemed to be unfair,
deceptive or abusive. The Firm’s consumer activities are also
subject to regulation under state statutes which are enforced by
the Attorney General or empowered agency of each state.
Securities and broker-dealer regulation:
The Firm conducts securities underwriting, dealing and
brokerage activities in the U.S. through J.P. Morgan Securities
LLC and other non-bank broker-dealer subsidiaries, all of
which are subject to regulations of the SEC, FINRA and the
New York Stock Exchange, among others. The Firm conducts
similar securities activities outside the U.S. subject to local
regulatory requirements. In the U.K., those activities are
conducted by J.P. Morgan Securities plc. Broker-dealers are
subject to laws and regulations covering all aspects of the
securities business, including sales and trading practices,
securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of
customer funds, the financing of client purchases, capital
structure, record-keeping and retention, and the conduct of
their directors, officers and employees. Refer to Broker-dealer
regulatory capital on page 92 for information concerning the
capital of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan
Securities plc.
Investment management regulation:
The Firm’s asset and wealth management businesses are
subject to significant regulation in jurisdictions around the
world relating to, among other things, the safeguarding and
management of client assets, offerings of funds and marketing
activities. Certain of the Firm’s subsidiaries are registered with,
and subject to oversight by, the SEC as investment advisers.
The Firm’s registered investment advisers are subject to the
fiduciary and other obligations imposed under the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940, as well as various state securities laws.
The Firm’s fiduciary activities are also subject to supervision
by the OCC.
The Firm’s asset and wealth management businesses continue
to be affected by ongoing rule-making and
4  
implementation of new regulations, including the SEC’s
Regulation Best Interest, which becomes operative on June 30,
2020, and rules proposed or adopted by certain U.S. states
relating to enhanced standards of conduct for broker-dealers
and certain other market participants.
Derivatives regulation:
The Firm is subject to comprehensive regulation of its
derivatives businesses, including regulations that impose
capital and margin requirements, require central clearing of
standardized over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives, mandate
that certain standardized over-the-counter swaps be traded on
regulated trading venues, and provide for reporting of certain
mandated information. In accordance with requirements under
the Dodd-Frank Act, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., J.P. Morgan
Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities plc have registered
with the CFTC as “swap dealers” and may be required to
register with the SEC as “security-based swap dealers.” As a
result, these entities are or will be subject to a comprehensive
regulatory framework applicable to their swap or security-
based swap activities, including capital requirements, rules
requiring the collateralization of uncleared swaps and security-
based swaps, rules regarding segregation of counterparty
collateral, business conduct and documentation standards,
record-keeping and reporting obligations, and anti-fraud and
anti-manipulation requirements. In the European Union
(“EU”), the implementation of the European Market
Infrastructure Regulation (“EMIR”) and substantial revisions to
the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (“MiFID II”)
has resulted in comparable, but not identical, changes to the
European regulatory regime for derivatives.
The Firm and other derivatives market participants have agreed
to adhere to several protocols developed by the International
Swaps and Derivatives Association (“ISDA”) in response to
regulator concerns that the close-out of derivatives and other
financial transactions during the resolution of a large cross-
border financial institution could impede resolution efforts and
potentially destabilize markets. These protocols provide for the
contractual recognition of cross-border stays under various
statutory resolution regimes and, in the case of certain of the
protocols, a contractual stay on certain cross-default rights.
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC is registered with the CFTC as a
futures commission merchant, and is a member of the National
Futures Association.
Data and cyber regulation:
The Firm and its subsidiaries are subject to numerous U.S.
federal and state as well as international laws and regulations
concerning the collection, use, confidentiality, disclosure,
transfer, protection and handling of information, including
personal information of individuals and confidential
information (including the EU General Data Protection
Regulation), as well as the management of internal and external
threats and vulnerabilities to protect information assets and the
supporting infrastructure from cyberattacks. These laws and
regulations are evolving at a rapid pace, remain a focus of
regulators globally and will continue to have a significant impact on all of the Firm’s
businesses.
The Bank Secrecy Act and Economic Sanctions:
The Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”) requires all financial
institutions, including banks and securities broker-dealers, to
establish a risk-based system of internal controls reasonably
designed to prevent money laundering and the financing of
terrorism. The BSA includes a variety of record-keeping and
reporting requirements, as well as due diligence/know-your-
customer documentation requirements. The Firm is also subject
to the regulations and economic sanctions programs
administered by the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets
Control (“OFAC”). In addition, the EU has adopted various
economic sanctions programs targeted at entities or individuals
that are, or are located in countries that are, involved in
terrorism, hostilities, embezzlement or human rights violations.
Anti-Corruption:
The Firm is subject to laws and regulations relating to corrupt
and illegal payments to government officials and others in the
jurisdictions in which it operates, including the U.S. Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act.
Compensation practices:
The Firm’s compensation practices are subject to oversight by
the Federal Reserve, as well as other agencies. The Federal
Reserve has issued guidance jointly with the FDIC and the
OCC that is designed to ensure that incentive compensation
paid by banking organizations does not encourage imprudent
risk-taking that threatens the organizations’ safety and
soundness. The Financial Stability Board (“FSB”) has also
established standards covering compensation principles for
banks. The Firm’s compensation practices are also subject to
regulation and oversight by regulators in other jurisdictions,
notably the EU Fourth Capital Requirements Directive (“CRD
IV”), which includes compensation-related provisions. The
European Banking Authority has instituted guidelines on
compensation policies which in certain countries, such as the
U.K., are implemented or supplemented by local regulations or
guidelines. The Firm expects that the implementation of
regulatory guidelines regarding compensation in the U.S. and
other countries will continue to evolve, and may affect the
manner in which the Firm structures its compensation
programs and practices.
Other significant international regulatory initiatives:
The EU continues to implement an extensive and complex
program of regulatory enhancement. Amendments to EMIR,
known as “EMIR REFIT,” entered into force during 2019 and
made targeted changes to EMIR to make the rules more
streamlined and proportionate. While most of the changes
already apply, some will take effect in 2020 and 2021. This will
include a new requirement for clearing firms to provide
clearing services on “fair, reasonable, non-discriminatory and
transparent commercial terms” as well as changes to the EMIR
reporting rules.
 5
Part I
The European Commission (“EC”) has begun its review of
MiFID II, which will continue into 2020, with the EC expected
to publish a legislative proposal for changes to MiFID II.
MiFID II, which became effective in 2018, requires the trading
of shares and certain OTC derivatives to take place on trading
venues, and also significantly enhanced requirements for pre-
and post-trade transparency, transaction reporting and investor
protection, and introduced position limits and a reporting
regime for commodities. The extent of the changes that will be
proposed under the MiFID II review is not known.
The EU capital and liquidity legislation for banks and
investment firms implemented many of the finalized Basel III
capital and liquidity standards, including in relation to the
leverage ratio, market risk capital, and a net stable funding
ratio. These changes will begin to take effect from June 2021.
The final EU legislation also includes a requirement for certain
non-EU banks operating in the EU to establish an intermediate
parent undertaking (“IPU”) located in the EU. The IPU rule
will allow a second IPU to be established if a single IPU would
conflict with “home country” bank separation rules or impede
resolvability.
The EU has also proposed or implemented significant revisions
to laws covering securities settlement, mutual funds and
pensions, payments, anti-money laundering controls, data
security and privacy, transparency and disclosure of securities
financing transactions, benchmarks, and resolution of banks,
investment firms and market infrastructures, such as central
counterparties.
Item 1A. Risk Factors.
The following discussion sets forth the material risk factors
that could affect JPMorgan Chase’s financial condition and
operations. Readers should not consider any descriptions of
these factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that
could affect the Firm. Any of the risk factors discussed below
could by itself, or combined with other factors, materially and
adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s business, results of
operations, financial condition, capital position, liquidity,
competitive position or reputation, including by materially
increasing expenses or decreasing revenues, which could result
in material losses or a decrease in earnings.
Regulatory
JPMorgan Chase’s businesses are highly regulated, and the
laws and regulations that apply to JPMorgan Chase have a
significant impact on its business and operations.
JPMorgan Chase is a financial services firm with operations
worldwide. JPMorgan Chase must comply with the laws, rules
and regulations that apply to its operations in all of the
jurisdictions around the world in which it does business.
Regulation of financial services is extensive.
JPMorgan Chase has experienced an extended period of
significant change in laws and regulations affecting the
financial services industry, both within and outside the U.S.
The supervision of financial services firms also expanded significantly. The increased regulation and supervision of
JPMorgan Chase has affected the way that it conducts its
business and structures its operations. Existing and new laws
and regulations and expanded supervision could require
JPMorgan Chase to make further changes to its business and
operations. These changes could result in JPMorgan Chase
incurring additional costs for complying with laws and
regulations and could reduce its profitability. For example,
existing and new laws and regulations have in the past and
could in the future require JPMorgan Chase to:
•limit the products and services that it offers
•reduce the liquidity that it can provide through its market-
making activities
•stop or discourage it from engaging in business
opportunities that it might otherwise pursue
•recognize losses in the value of assets that it holds
•pay higher taxes, assessments, levies or other
governmental charges, including in connection with the
resolution of tax examinations
•dispose of certain assets, and do so at times or prices that
are disadvantageous
•impose restrictions on certain business activities, or
•increase the prices that it charges for products and
services, which could reduce the demand for them.
Differences in financial services regulation can be
disadvantageous for JPMorgan Chase’s business.
The content and application of laws and regulations affecting
financial services firms sometimes vary according to factors
such as the size of the firm, the jurisdiction in which it is
organized or operates, and other criteria. For example:
•larger firms are often subject to more stringent supervision
and regulation
•financial technology companies and other non-traditional
competitors may not be subject to banking regulation, or
may be supervised by a national or state regulatory agency
that does not have the same resources or regulatory
priorities as the regulatory agencies which supervise more
diversified financial services firms, or
•the financial services regulatory framework in a particular
jurisdiction may favor financial institutions that are based
in that jurisdiction.
These differences in the regulatory framework can result in a
firm such as JPMorgan Chase losing market share to
competitors that are less regulated or not subject to regulation,
especially with respect to unregulated financial products.
There can also be significant differences in the ways that
similar regulatory initiatives affecting the financial services
industry are implemented in the U.S. and in other countries
6  
and regions in which JPMorgan Chase does business. For
example, when adopting rules that are intended to implement a
global regulatory initiative or standard, a national regulator
may introduce additional or more restrictive requirements,
which can create competitive disadvantages for financial
services firms, such as JPMorgan Chase, that may be subject to
those enhanced regulations.
Legislative and regulatory initiatives outside the U.S. could
require JPMorgan Chase to make significant modifications to
its operations and legal entity structure in the relevant
countries or regions in order to comply with those
requirements. These include laws and regulations that have
been adopted or proposed relating to:
•the resolution of financial institutions
•the establishment of locally-based intermediate holding
companies or operating subsidiaries
•requirements to maintain minimum amounts of capital or
liquidity in locally-based subsidiaries
•the separation (or “ring fencing”) of core banking products
and services from markets activities
•requirements for executing or settling transactions on
exchanges or through central counterparties (“CCPs”)
•position limits and reporting rules for derivatives
•governance and accountability regimes
•conduct of business requirements, and
•restrictions on compensation.
These types of differences in financial services regulation, or
inconsistencies or conflicts between laws and regulations
between different jurisdictions, could require JPMorgan Chase
to:
•divest assets or restructure its operations
•absorb increased operational, capital and liquidity costs
•change the prices that it charges for its products and
services
•curtail the products and services that it offers to its
customers and clients, or
•incur higher costs for complying with different legal and
regulatory frameworks.
Any or all of these factors could harm JPMorgan Chase’s
ability to compete against other firms that are not subject to the
same laws and regulations or supervisory oversight, or harm
JPMorgan Chase’s businesses, results of operations and
profitability. Heightened regulatory scrutiny of JPMorgan Chase’s
businesses has increased its compliance costs and could
result in restrictions on its operations.
JPMorgan Chase’s operations are subject to heightened
oversight and scrutiny from regulatory authorities in many
jurisdictions where JPMorgan Chase does business. JPMorgan
Chase has paid significant fines, provided other monetary
relief, incurred other penalties and experienced other
repercussions in connection with resolving several
investigations and enforcement actions by governmental
agencies. JPMorgan Chase could become subject to similar
regulatory resolutions or other actions in the future, and
addressing the requirements of any such resolutions or actions
could result in JPMorgan Chase incurring higher operational
and compliance costs or needing to comply with other
restrictions.
In connection with resolving specific regulatory investigations
or enforcement actions, certain regulators have required
JPMorgan Chase and other financial institutions to admit
wrongdoing with respect to the activities that gave rise to the
resolution. These types of admissions can lead to:
•greater exposure in civil litigation
•damage to reputation
•disqualification from doing business with certain clients or
customers, or in specific jurisdictions, or
•other direct and indirect adverse effects.
Furthermore, U.S. government officials have demonstrated a
willingness to bring criminal actions against financial
institutions and have demanded that institutions plead guilty to
criminal offenses or admit other wrongdoing in connection
with resolving regulatory investigations or enforcement
actions. Resolutions of this type can have significant collateral
consequences for the subject financial institution, including:
•loss of clients, customers and business
•restrictions on offering certain products or services, and
•losing permission to operate certain businesses, either
temporarily or permanently.
JPMorgan Chase expects that it and other financial services
firms will continue to be subject to heightened regulatory
scrutiny and governmental investigations and enforcement
actions. JPMorgan Chase also expects that regulators will
continue to insist that financial institutions be penalized for
actual or deemed violations of law with formal and punitive
enforcement actions, including the imposition of significant
monetary and other sanctions, rather than resolving these
matters through informal supervisory actions. Furthermore, if
JPMorgan Chase fails to meet the requirements of any
resolution of a governmental investigation or enforcement
action, or to maintain risk and control processes that meet
 7
Part I
the heightened standards established by its regulators, it could
be required to:
•enter into further resolutions of investigations or
enforcement actions
•pay additional regulatory fines, penalties or judgments, or
•accept material regulatory restrictions on, or changes in
the management of, its businesses.
In these circumstances, JPMorgan Chase could also become
subject to other sanctions, or to prosecution or civil litigation
with respect to the conduct that gave rise to an investigation or
enforcement action.
Complying with economic sanctions and anti-corruption
and anti-money laundering laws and regulations can
increase JPMorgan Chase’s operational and compliance
costs and risks.
JPMorgan Chase must comply with economic sanctions and
embargo programs administered by the Office of Foreign
Assets Control (“OFAC”) and similar national and multi-
national bodies and governmental agencies outside the U.S., as
well as anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws and
regulations throughout the world. JPMorgan Chase can incur
higher costs and face greater compliance risks in structuring
and operating its businesses to comply with these
requirements. Furthermore, a violation of a sanction or
embargo program or anti-corruption or anti-money laundering
laws and regulations could subject JPMorgan Chase, and
individual employees, to regulatory enforcement actions as
well as significant civil and criminal penalties.
JPMorgan Chase’s operations can be constrained in
countries with less predictable legal and regulatory
frameworks.
If the legal and regulatory system in a particular country is less
predictable, this can create a more difficult environment in
which to conduct business. For example, any of the following
could hamper JPMorgan Chase’s operations and reduce its
earnings in these types of countries:
•the absence of a statutory or regulatory basis or guidance
for engaging in specific types of business or transactions
•conflicting or ambiguous laws and regulations, or the
inconsistent application or interpretation of existing laws
and regulations
•uncertainty concerning the enforceability of contractual,
intellectual property or other obligations
•difficulty in competing in economies in which the
government controls or protects all or a portion of the
local economy or specific businesses, or where graft or
corruption may be pervasive, and
•the threat of arbitrary regulatory investigations, civil
litigations or criminal prosecutions, the termination of
licenses required to operate in the local market or the suspension of business relationships with governmental
bodies.
Conducting business in countries with less predictable legal
and regulatory regimes could require JPMorgan Chase to
devote significant additional resources to understanding, and
monitoring changes in, local laws and regulations, as well as
structuring its operations to comply with local laws and
regulations and implementing and administering related
internal policies and procedures.
There can be no assurance that JPMorgan Chase will always
be successful in its efforts to fully understand and to conduct
its business in compliance with the laws and regulations of all
of the jurisdictions in which it operates, and the risk of non-
compliance can be greater in countries that have less
predictable legal and regulatory systems.
Requirements for the orderly resolution of JPMorgan
Chase could result in JPMorgan Chase having to
restructure or reorganize its businesses.
JPMorgan Chase is required under Federal Reserve and FDIC
rules to prepare and submit periodically to those agencies a
detailed plan for rapid and orderly resolution in bankruptcy,
without extraordinary government support, in the event of
material financial distress or failure. The agencies’ evaluation
of JPMorgan Chase’s resolution plan may change, and the
requirements for resolution plans may be modified from time
to time. Any such determinations or modifications could result
in JPMorgan Chase needing to make changes to its legal entity
structure or to certain internal or external activities, which
could increase its funding or operational costs, or hamper its
ability to serve clients and customers.
If the Federal Reserve and the FDIC were to determine that a
resolution plan submitted by JPMorgan Chase has deficiencies,
they could jointly impose more stringent capital, leverage or
liquidity requirements or restrictions on JPMorgan Chase’s
growth, activities or operations. After two years, if the
deficiencies are not cured, the agencies could also require that
JPMorgan Chase restructure, reorganize or divest assets or
businesses in ways that could materially and adversely affect
JPMorgan Chase’s operations and strategy.
Holders of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s debt and equity
securities will absorb losses if it were to enter into a
resolution.
Federal Reserve rules require that JPMorgan Chase & Co. (the
“Parent Company”) maintain minimum levels of unsecured
external long-term debt and other loss-absorbing capacity with
specific terms (“eligible LTD”) for purposes of recapitalizing
JPMorgan Chase’s operating subsidiaries if the Parent
Company were to enter into a resolution either:
•in a bankruptcy proceeding under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code, or
•in a receivership administered by the FDIC under Title II
of the Dodd-Frank Act (“Title II”).
8  
If the Parent Company were to enter into a resolution, holders
of eligible LTD and other debt and equity securities of the
Parent Company will absorb the losses of the Parent Company
and its subsidiaries.
The preferred “single point of entry” strategy under JPMorgan
Chase’s resolution plan contemplates that only the Parent
Company would enter bankruptcy proceedings. JPMorgan
Chase’s subsidiaries would be recapitalized, as needed, so that
they could continue normal operations or subsequently be
divested or wound down in an orderly manner. As a result, the
Parent Company’s losses and any losses incurred by its
subsidiaries would be imposed first on holders of the Parent
Company’s equity securities and thereafter on its unsecured
creditors, including holders of eligible LTD and other debt
securities. Claims of holders of those securities would have a
junior position to the claims of creditors of JPMorgan Chase’s
subsidiaries and to the claims of priority (as determined by
statute) and secured creditors of the Parent Company.
Accordingly, in a resolution of the Parent Company in
bankruptcy, holders of eligible LTD and other debt securities
of the Parent Company would realize value only to the extent
available to the Parent Company as a shareholder of JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. and its other subsidiaries, and only after any
claims of priority and secured creditors of the Parent Company
have been fully repaid.
The FDIC has similarly indicated that a single point of entry
recapitalization model could be a desirable strategy to resolve
a systemically important financial institution, such as the
Parent Company, under Title II. However, the FDIC has not
formally adopted a single point of entry resolution strategy.
If the Parent Company were to approach, or enter into, a
resolution, none of the Parent Company, the Federal Reserve
or the FDIC is obligated to follow JPMorgan Chase’s preferred
strategy, and losses to holders of eligible LTD and other debt
and equity securities of the Parent Company, under whatever
strategy is ultimately followed, could be greater than they
might have been under JPMorgan Chase’s preferred strategy.
Political
The departure of the U.K. from the EU could negatively
affect JPMorgan Chase’s business, results of operations
and operating model.
It remains highly uncertain how the departure of the U.K. from
the EU, which is commonly referred to as “Brexit,” will affect
financial services firms such as JPMorgan Chase that conduct
substantial operations in the EU from legal entities that are
organized in or operating from the U.K. It is possible that the
transition period following the U.K.’s departure from the EU
on January 31, 2020 will expire on December 31, 2020 without
any agreement having been reached between the U.K. and the
EU concerning whether or to what extent U.K.-based firms
may conduct financial services activities within the EU. It is
also possible that any agreement reached between the U.K. and the EU may,
depending on the final outcome of the ongoing negotiations
and related legislative developments:
•impede the ability of U.K.-based financial services firms
to conduct business in the EU
•fail to address significant unresolved issues relating to the
cross-border conduct of financial services activities, or
•apply only temporarily.
JPMorgan Chase has been making appropriate modifications to
its legal entity structure and operations in the EU, the locations
in which it operates and the staffing in those locations to
address the departure of the U.K. from the EU. If the U.K. and
the EU fail to reach an agreement on their future relationship
before the end of the transition period or if any other outcome
persists that does not assure ongoing access for U.K.-based
financial services firms to the EU market, the types of
structural and operational changes that JPMorgan Chase is in
the process of making to its European operations may result in
JPMorgan Chase having to sustain a more fragmented
operating model across its U.K., EU and other operating
entities. Due to considerations such as operating expenses,
liquidity, leverage and capital, the modified European
operating framework will be more complex, less efficient and
more costly than would otherwise have been the case.
A disorderly withdrawal of the U.K. from the EU, or
unexpected consequences of the withdrawal, could have
significant and immediate destabilizing effects on economic
and market conditions in the region and globally. In particular,
cross-border financial services activities could be severely
disrupted depending on circumstances that may exist following
the withdrawal, including:
•the possibility that financial institutions, their clients and
counterparties, and other market participants may not be
positioned to continue to do business through EU-based
legal entities
•reduction or fragmentation of market liquidity that may be
caused if significant market participants (including trading
venues and CCPs) that are currently based in the U.K.
have not completed arrangements to conduct operations
from the EU either in the near term or, if authorized to
continue to operate from the U.K. on a transitional basis,
after any transitional or temporary relief has expired
•uncertainties concerning the application and interpretation
of laws and regulations relating to cross-border financial
services activities
•inability to engage in certain financial services activities
through EU-based legal entities to the extent that licenses
or temporary permission to engage in such activities have
not been granted timely by local regulators
 9
Part I
•unexpected or unfavorable changes in laws and
regulations, governmental policies or public sentiment,
and
•losses due to process errors or incorrect judgments
concerning economic, political or regulatory
developments.
Any or all of the above factors could have an adverse effect on
the overall operation of the European financial services market
as well as JPMorgan Chase’s business, operations and earnings
in the U.K., the EU and globally.
Economic uncertainty or instability caused by political
developments can hurt JPMorgan Chase’s businesses.
The economic environment and market conditions in which
JPMorgan Chase operates continue to be uncertain due to
political developments in the U.S. and other countries. Certain
monetary, fiscal and other policy initiatives and proposals
could cause a contraction in U.S. and global economic growth
and higher volatility in the financial markets, including:
•monetary and fiscal policies and actions taken by the
Federal Reserve and other central banks or governmental
authorities, including any suspension or reversal of large-
scale asset purchases
•inability to reach political consensus to keep the U.S.
government open
•isolationist foreign policies
•the implementation of tariffs and other protectionist trade
policies
•political pressure on monetary policy decisions of central
banks, or
•the possible withdrawal or reduction of government
support for the Federal National Mortgage Association
and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
(together, the “U.S. GSEs”).
These types of political developments, and uncertainty about
the possible outcomes of these developments, could:
•erode investor confidence in the U.S. economy and
financial markets, which could potentially undermine the
status of the U.S. dollar as a safe haven currency
•provoke retaliatory countermeasures by other countries
and otherwise heighten tensions in diplomatic relations
•increase concerns about whether the U.S. government will
be funded, and its outstanding debt serviced, at any
particular time, and
•result in periodic shutdowns of the U.S. government or
governments in other countries.
These factors could lead to:
•slower growth rates, rising inflation or recession
•greater market volatility •a contraction of available credit and the widening of credit
spreads
•diminished investor and consumer confidence
•lower investment growth
•large-scale sales of government debt and other debt and
equity securities in the U.S. and other countries
•reduced commercial activity among trading partners
•the potential for a currency redenomination by a particular
country
•the possible departure of a country from, or the dissolution
of, a political or economic alliance or treaty
•potential expropriation or nationalization of assets
•other market dislocations, including the spread of
unfavorable economic conditions from a particular
country or region to other countries or regions.
Any of these potential outcomes could cause JPMorgan Chase
to suffer losses on its market-making positions or in its
investment portfolio, reduce its liquidity and capital levels,
hamper its ability to deliver products and services to its clients
and customers, and weaken its results of operations and
financial condition.
Market
Economic and market events and conditions can materially
affect JPMorgan Chase’s businesses and investment and
market-making positions.
JPMorgan Chase’s results of operations can be negatively
affected by adverse changes in any of the following:
•investor, consumer and business sentiment
•events that reduce confidence in the financial markets
•inflation or deflation
•high unemployment or, conversely, a tightening labor
market
•the availability and cost of capital, liquidity and credit
•levels and volatility of interest rates (including overnight
repo rates), credit spreads and market prices for
currencies, equities and commodities, and the duration of
any changes in levels or volatility
•the economic effects of outbreaks of hostilities, terrorism
or other geopolitical instabilities, cyberattacks, climate
change, natural disasters, severe weather conditions,
health emergencies, the spread of infectious diseases or
pandemics, and
•the health of the U.S. and global economies.
All of these are affected by global economic, market and
political events and conditions, as well as regulatory
restrictions.
10  
In addition, JPMorgan Chase’s investment portfolio and
market-making businesses can suffer losses due to
unanticipated market events, including:
•severe declines in asset values
•unexpected credit events
•unforeseen events or conditions that may cause previously
uncorrelated factors to become correlated (and vice versa)
•the inability to effectively hedge market and other risks
related to market-making position, or
•other market risks that may not have been appropriately
taken into account in the development, structuring or
pricing of a financial instrument.
If JPMorgan Chase experiences significant losses in its
investment portfolio or from market-making activities, this
could reduce JPMorgan Chase’s profitability and its liquidity
and capital levels, and thereby constrain the growth of its
businesses.
JPMorgan Chase’s consumer businesses can be negatively
affected by adverse economic conditions.
JPMorgan Chase’s consumer businesses are particularly
affected by U.S. and global economic conditions, including:
•interest rates
•the rates of inflation and unemployment
•housing prices
•the level of consumer and small business confidence
•changes in consumer spending or in the level of consumer
debt, and
•the number of personal bankruptcies.
A rapid increase in interest rates could negatively affect
consumer credit performance to the extent that consumers are
less able to service their debts. Sustained low growth, low or
negative interest rates, inflationary pressures or recessionary
conditions could diminish customer demand for the products
and services offered by JPMorgan Chase’s consumer
businesses. These conditions could also increase the cost to
provide those products and services. Adverse economic
conditions could also lead to an increase in delinquencies and
higher net charge-offs, which can reduce JPMorgan Chase’s
earnings. These consequences could be significantly worse in
certain geographies where high levels of unemployment have
resulted from declining industrial or manufacturing activity, or
where high levels of consumer debt, such as outstanding
student loans, impair the ability of customers to pay their other
consumer loan obligations.
JPMorgan Chase’s earnings from its consumer businesses
could also be adversely affected by governmental policies and
actions that affect consumers, including:
•policies and initiatives relating to medical insurance,
education, immigration and employment status •the inability to reach political consensus to keep the U.S.
government open and funded, and
•policies aimed at the economy more broadly, such as
infrastructure spending and global trade, which could
result in higher inflation or reductions in consumer
disposable income.
In addition, governmental proposals to permit student loan
obligations to be discharged in bankruptcy proceedings could,
if enacted into law, encourage certain of JPMorgan Chase’s
customers to declare personal bankruptcy and thereby trigger
defaults and charge-offs of credit card and other consumer
loans extended to those customers.
Unfavorable market and economic conditions can have an
adverse effect on JPMorgan Chase’s wholesale businesses.
In JPMorgan Chase’s wholesale businesses, market and
economic factors can affect the volume of transactions that
JPMorgan Chase executes for its clients or for which it advises
clients, and, therefore, the revenue that JPMorgan Chase
receives from those transactions. These factors can also
influence the willingness of other financial institutions and
investors to participate in capital markets transactions that
JPMorgan Chase manages, such as loan syndications or
securities underwritings. Furthermore, if a significant and
sustained deterioration in market conditions were to occur, the
profitability of JPMorgan Chase’s capital markets businesses,
including its loan syndication, securities underwriting and
leveraged lending activities, could be reduced to the extent that
those businesses:
•earn less fee revenue due to lower transaction volumes,
including when clients are unwilling or unable to
refinance their outstanding debt obligations in unfavorable
market conditions, or
•dispose of portions of credit commitments at a loss, or
hold larger residual positions in credit commitments that
cannot be sold at favorable prices.
An adverse change in market conditions in particular segments
of the economy, such as a sudden and severe downturn in oil
and gas prices or an increase in commodity prices, could have
a material adverse effect on clients of JPMorgan Chase whose
operations or financial condition are directly or indirectly
dependent on the health or stability of those market segments,
as well as clients that are engaged in related businesses.
JPMorgan Chase could incur losses on its loans and other
credit commitments to clients that operate in, or are dependent
on, any sector of the economy that is under stress.
The fees that JPMorgan Chase earns from managing client
assets or holding assets under custody for clients could be
diminished by declining asset values or other adverse
macroeconomic conditions. For example, higher interest rates
or a downturn in financial markets could affect the valuations
of client assets that JPMorgan Chase manages or holds under
custody, which, in turn, could affect JPMorgan Chase’s
revenue from fees that are based on the amount of assets under
management or custody. Similarly, adverse
 11
Part I
macroeconomic or market conditions could prompt outflows
from JPMorgan Chase funds or accounts, or cause clients to
invest in products that generate lower revenue. Substantial and
unexpected withdrawals from a JPMorgan Chase fund can also
hamper the investment performance of the fund, particularly if
the outflows create the need for the fund to dispose of fund
assets at disadvantageous times or prices, and could lead to
further withdrawals based on the weaker investment
performance.
An economic downturn that results in lower consumer and
business spending could also have a negative impact on certain
of JPMorgan Chase’s wholesale clients, and thereby diminish
JPMorgan Chase’s earnings from its wholesale operations. For
example, the businesses of certain of JPMorgan Chase’s
wholesale clients are dependent on consistent streams of rental
income from commercial real estate properties which are
owned or being built by those clients. Severe and sustained
adverse economic conditions could reduce the rental cash
flows that owners or developers receive from those properties
which, in turn, could depress the values of the properties and
impair the ability of borrowers to service or refinance their
commercial real estate loans. These consequences could result
in JPMorgan Chase experiencing higher delinquencies,
defaults and write-offs within its commercial real estate loan
portfolio and incurring higher costs for servicing a larger
volume of delinquent loans in that portfolio, thereby reducing
JPMorgan Chase’s earnings from its wholesale businesses.
Changes in interest rates and credit spreads can adversely
affect certain of JPMorgan Chase’s revenue and income
streams.
JPMorgan Chase can generally be expected to earn higher net
interest income when interest rates are increasing. However,
higher interest rates can also lead to:
•fewer originations of commercial and residential real
estate loans
•losses on underwriting exposures
•the loss of deposits, including in the event that JPMorgan
Chase makes incorrect assumptions about depositor
behavior
•lower net interest income if central banks introduce
interest rate increases more quickly than anticipated and
this results in a misalignment in the pricing of short-term
and long-term borrowings
•less liquidity in the financial markets, and
•higher funding costs.
All of these outcomes could adversely affect JPMorgan
Chase’s revenues and its liquidity and capital levels. Higher
interest rates can also negatively affect the payment
performance on loans within JPMorgan Chase’s consumer and
wholesale loan portfolios that are linked to variable interest
rates. If borrowers of variable rate loans are unable to afford
higher interest payments, those borrowers may reduce or stop making payments, thereby causing JPMorgan
Chase to incur losses and increased operational costs related to
servicing a higher volume of delinquent loans.
On the other hand, a low or negative interest rate environment
may cause:
•net interest margins to be compressed, which could reduce
the amounts that JPMorgan Chase earns on its investment
portfolio to the extent that it is unable to reinvest
contemporaneously in higher-yielding instruments
•unanticipated or adverse changes in depositor behavior,
which could negatively affect JPMorgan Chase’s broader
asset and liability management strategy, and
•a reduction in the value of JPMorgan Chase’s mortgage
servicing rights (“MSRs”) asset, thereby decreasing
revenues.
When credit spreads widen, it becomes more expensive for
JPMorgan Chase to borrow. JPMorgan Chase’s credit spreads
may widen or narrow not only in response to events and
circumstances that are specific to JPMorgan Chase but also as
a result of general economic and geopolitical events and
conditions. Changes in JPMorgan Chase’s credit spreads will
affect, positively or negatively, JPMorgan Chase’s earnings on
certain liabilities, such as derivatives, that are recorded at fair
value.
JPMorgan Chase’s results may be materially affected by
market fluctuations and significant changes in the value of
financial instruments.
The value of securities, derivatives and other financial
instruments which JPMorgan Chase owns or in which it makes
markets can be materially affected by market fluctuations.
Market volatility, illiquid market conditions and other
disruptions in the financial markets may make it extremely
difficult to value certain financial instruments, particularly
during periods of market displacement. Subsequent valuations
of financial instruments in future periods, in light of factors
then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the value
of these instruments. In addition, at the time of any disposition
of these financial instruments, the price that JPMorgan Chase
ultimately realizes will depend on the demand and liquidity in
the market at that time and may be materially lower than their
current fair value. Any of these factors could cause a decline in
the value of JPMorgan Chase’s financial instruments which
may have an adverse effect on JPMorgan Chase’s results of
operations.
JPMorgan Chase’s risk management and monitoring processes,
including its stress testing framework, seek to quantify and
control JPMorgan Chase’s exposure to more extreme market
moves. However, JPMorgan Chase could realize significant
losses if extreme market events were to occur. Under extreme
market conditions, hedging and other risk management
strategies may not be as effective at
12  
mitigating losses as they would be under more normal market
conditions.
Credit
JPMorgan Chase can be adversely affected by the financial
condition of clients, counterparties, custodians and CCPs.
JPMorgan Chase routinely executes transactions with brokers
and dealers, commercial and investment banks, mutual and
hedge funds, investment managers and other types of financial
institutions and market participants. Many of these transactions
expose JPMorgan Chase to the credit risk of its clients and
counterparties, and can involve JPMorgan Chase in disputes
and litigation if a client or counterparty defaults. JPMorgan
Chase can also be subject to losses or liability where a
financial institution that it has appointed to provide custodial
services for client assets or funds becomes insolvent as a result
of fraud or the failure to abide by existing laws and
obligations, including under the EU Alternative Investment
Fund Managers Directive.
A default by, or the financial or operational failure of, a CCP
through which JPMorgan Chase executes contracts would
require JPMorgan Chase to replace those contracts, thereby
increasing its operational costs and potentially resulting in
losses. JPMorgan Chase can also be exposed to losses if a
member of a CCP in which JPMorgan Chase is also a member
defaults on its obligations to the CCP because of requirements
that each member of the CCP absorb a portion of those losses.
As part of its clearing services activities, JPMorgan Chase is
also exposed to the risk of nonperformance by its clients,
which it seeks to mitigate by requiring clients to provide
adequate collateral. JPMorgan Chase is also exposed to intra-
day credit risk of its clients in connection with providing cash
management, clearing, custodial and other transaction services
to those clients. If a client for which JPMorgan Chase provides
these services becomes bankrupt or insolvent, JPMorgan
Chase may incur losses, become involved in disputes and
litigation with one or more CCPs, the client’s bankruptcy
estate and other creditors, or be subject to regulatory
investigations. All of the foregoing events can increase
JPMorgan Chase’s operational and litigation costs, and
JPMorgan Chase may suffer losses to the extent that any
collateral that it has received is insufficient to cover those
losses. JPMorgan Chase can also be subject to bearing its share
of non-default losses incurred by a CCP, including losses from
custodial, settlement or investment activities or due to cyber or
other security breaches.
Disputes may arise with counterparties to derivatives contracts
with regard to the terms, the settlement procedures or the value
of underlying collateral. The disposition of those disputes
could cause JPMorgan Chase to incur unexpected transaction,
operational and legal costs, or result in credit losses. These
consequences can also impair JPMorgan Chase’s ability to
effectively manage its credit risk exposure from its market
activities, or cause harm to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation. The financial or operational failure of a significant market
participant, such as a major financial institution or a CCP, or
concerns about the creditworthiness of such a market
participant, can have a cascading effect within the financial
markets. JPMorgan Chase’s businesses could be significantly
disrupted by such an event, particularly if it leads to other
market participants incurring significant losses, experiencing
liquidity issues or defaulting. JPMorgan Chase is likely to have
significant interrelationships with, and credit exposure to, such
a significant market participant, and would seek to unwind or
hedge positions in securities, derivatives and other obligations
in multiple jurisdictions during a period of heightened market
volatility.
JPMorgan Chase may suffer losses if the value of collateral
declines in stressed market conditions.
During periods of market stress or illiquidity, JPMorgan
Chase’s credit risk may be further increased when JPMorgan
Chase cannot realize the fair value of the collateral held by it
or when collateral is liquidated at prices that are not sufficient
to recover the full amount of the loan, derivative or other
exposure due to it. Furthermore, disputes with counterparties
concerning the valuation of collateral may increase in times of
significant market stress, volatility or illiquidity, and JPMorgan
Chase could suffer losses during these periods if it is unable to
realize the fair value of collateral or to manage declines in the
value of collateral.
JPMorgan Chase could incur significant losses arising
from concentrations of credit and market risk.
JPMorgan Chase is exposed to greater credit and market risk to
the extent that groupings of its clients or counterparties:
•engage in similar or related businesses, or in businesses in
related industries
•do business in the same geographic region, or
•have business profiles, models or strategies that could
cause their ability to meet their obligations to be similarly
affected by changes in economic conditions.
For example, a significant deterioration in the credit quality of
one of JPMorgan Chase’s borrowers or counterparties could
lead to concerns about the creditworthiness of other borrowers
or counterparties in similar, related or dependent industries.
This type of interrelationship could exacerbate JPMorgan
Chase’s credit, liquidity and market risk exposure and
potentially cause it to incur losses, including fair value losses
in its market-making businesses.
Similarly, challenging economic conditions that affect a
particular industry or geographic area could lead to concerns
about the credit quality of JPMorgan Chase’s borrowers or
counterparties not only in that particular industry or geography
but in related or dependent industries, wherever located. These
conditions could also heighten concerns about the ability of
customers of JPMorgan Chase’s consumer businesses who live
in those areas or work in those affected industries or related or
 13
Part I
dependent industries to meet their obligations to JPMorgan
Chase. JPMorgan Chase regularly monitors various segments
of its credit and market risk exposures to assess the potential
risks of concentration or contagion, but its efforts to diversify
or hedge its exposures against those risks may not be
successful.
JPMorgan Chase’s consumer businesses can also be harmed by
an excessive expansion of consumer credit by bank or non-
bank competitors. Heightened competition for certain types of
consumer loans could prompt industry-wide reactions such as
significant reductions in the pricing or margins of those loans
or the making of loans to less-creditworthy borrowers. If large
numbers of consumers subsequently default on their loans,
whether due to weak credit profiles, an economic downturn or
other factors, this could impair their ability to repay
obligations owed to JPMorgan Chase and result in higher
charge-offs and other credit-related losses. More broadly,
widespread defaults on consumer debt could lead to
recessionary conditions in the U.S. economy, and JPMorgan
Chase’s consumer businesses may earn lower revenues in such
an environment.
If JPMorgan Chase is unable to reduce positions effectively
during a market dislocation, this can increase both the market
and credit risks associated with those positions and the level of
risk-weighted assets (“RWA”) that JPMorgan Chase holds on
its balance sheet. These factors could adversely affect
JPMorgan Chase’s capital position, funding costs and the
profitability of its businesses.
Liquidity
Liquidity is critical to JPMorgan Chase’s ability to operate
its businesses.
JPMorgan Chase’s liquidity could be impaired at any given
time by factors such as:
•market-wide illiquidity or disruption
•unforeseen liquidity or capital requirements, including as a
result of changes in laws, rules and regulations
•inability to sell assets, or to sell assets at favorable times
or prices
•default by a CCP or other significant market participant
•unanticipated outflows of cash or collateral
•unexpected loss of consumer deposits caused by changes
in consumer behavior, and
•lack of market or customer confidence in JPMorgan Chase
or financial institutions in general.
A reduction in JPMorgan Chase’s liquidity may be caused by
events over which it has little or no control. For example,
during periods of market stress, low investor confidence and
significant market illiquidity could result in higher funding
costs for JPMorgan Chase and could limit its access to some of
its traditional sources of liquidity. There is no assurance that
severe conditions of this type will not occur. JPMorgan Chase may need to raise funding from alternative
sources if its access to stable and lower-cost sources of
funding, such as deposits and borrowings from Federal Home
Loan Banks, is reduced. Alternative sources of funding could
be more expensive or limited in availability. JPMorgan Chase’s
funding costs could also be negatively affected by actions that
JPMorgan Chase may take in order to:
•satisfy applicable liquidity coverage ratio and net stable
funding ratio requirements
•address obligations under its resolution plan, or
•satisfy regulatory requirements in jurisdictions outside the
U.S. relating to the pre-positioning of liquidity in
subsidiaries that are material legal entities.
More generally, if JPMorgan Chase fails to effectively manage
its liquidity, this could constrain its ability to fund or invest in
its businesses and subsidiaries (including, in particular, its
broker-dealer subsidiaries), and thereby adversely affect its
results of operations.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. is a holding company and depends
on the cash flows of its subsidiaries to make payments on
its outstanding securities.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. is a holding company that holds the
stock of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and an intermediate
holding company, JPMorgan Chase Holdings LLC (the
“IHC”). The IHC in turn holds the stock of substantially all of
JPMorgan Chase’s subsidiaries other than JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A. and its subsidiaries. The IHC also owns other
assets and owes intercompany indebtedness to the holding
company.
The holding company is obligated to contribute to the IHC
substantially all the net proceeds received from securities
issuances (including issuances of senior and subordinated debt
securities and of preferred and common stock).
The ability of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the IHC to
make payments to the holding company is also
limited. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is subject to restrictions
on its dividend distributions, as well as capital adequacy and
liquidity requirements and other regulatory restrictions on its
ability to make payments to the holding company. The IHC is
prohibited from paying dividends or extending credit to the
holding company if certain capital or liquidity “thresholds” are
breached or if limits are otherwise imposed by JPMorgan
Chase’s management or Board of Directors.
As a result of these arrangements, the ability of the holding
company to make various payments is dependent on its
receiving dividends from JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and
dividends and extensions of credit from the IHC. These
limitations could affect the holding company’s ability to:
•pay interest on its debt securities
•pay dividends on its equity securities
•redeem or repurchase outstanding securities, and
14  
•fulfill its other payment obligations.
These regulatory restrictions and limitations could also result
in the holding company seeking protection under bankruptcy
laws at a time earlier than would have been the case absent the
existence of the capital and liquidity thresholds to which the
IHC is subject.
Reductions in JPMorgan Chase’s credit ratings may
adversely affect its liquidity and cost of funding.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and certain of its principal subsidiaries
are rated by credit rating agencies. Rating agencies evaluate
both general and firm-specific and industry-specific factors
when determining credit ratings for a particular financial
institution, including:
•expected future profitability
•risk management practices
•legal expenses
•ratings differentials between bank holding companies and
their bank and non-bank subsidiaries
•regulatory developments
•assumptions about government support, and
•economic and geopolitical trends.
JPMorgan Chase closely monitors and manages, to the extent
that it is able, factors that could influence its credit
ratings. However, there is no assurance that JPMorgan Chase’s
credit ratings will not be lowered in the future. Furthermore,
any such downgrade could occur at times of broader market
instability when JPMorgan Chase’s options for responding to
events may be more limited and general investor confidence is
low.
A reduction in JPMorgan Chase’s credit ratings could curtail
JPMorgan Chase’s business activities and reduce its
profitability in a number of ways, including:
•reducing its access to capital markets
•materially increasing its cost of issuing and servicing
securities
•triggering additional collateral or funding requirements,
and
•decreasing the number of investors and counterparties that
are willing or permitted to do business with or lend to
JPMorgan Chase.
Any rating reduction could also increase the credit spreads
charged by the market for taking credit risk on JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries. This could, in turn, adversely
affect the value of debt and other obligations of JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries. The reform and replacement of benchmark rates could
adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s funding, investments
and financial products, and expose it to litigation and other
disputes.
Interest rate, equity, foreign exchange rate and other types of
indices which are deemed to be “benchmarks,” including those
in widespread and long-standing use, have been the subject of
ongoing international, national and other regulatory scrutiny
and initiatives and proposals for reform. Some of these reforms
are already effective while others are still to be implemented or
are under consideration. These reforms may cause benchmarks
to perform differently than in the past, or to disappear entirely,
or have other consequences which cannot be fully anticipated.
Any of the benchmark reforms which have been proposed or
implemented, or the general increased regulatory scrutiny of
benchmarks, could also increase the costs and risks of
administering or otherwise participating in the setting of
benchmarks and complying with regulations or requirements
relating to benchmarks. Such factors may have the effect of
discouraging market participants from continuing to administer
or contribute to certain benchmarks, trigger changes in the
rules or methodologies used in certain benchmarks or lead to
the disappearance of certain benchmarks.
Any of these developments, and any future initiatives to
regulate, reform or change the administration of benchmarks,
could result in adverse consequences to the return on, value of
and market for loans, mortgages, securities, derivatives and
other financial instruments whose returns are linked to any
such benchmark, including those issued, funded, serviced or
held by JPMorgan Chase.
Various regulators, industry bodies and other market
participants in the U.S. and other countries are engaged in
initiatives to develop, introduce and encourage the use of
alternative rates to replace certain benchmarks. There is no
assurance that these new rates will be accepted or widely used
by market participants, or that the characteristics of any of
these new rates will be similar to, or produce the economic
equivalent of, the benchmarks that they seek to replace. If a
particular benchmark were to be discontinued and an
alternative rate has not been successfully introduced to replace
that benchmark, this could result in widespread dislocation in
the financial markets, engender volatility in the pricing of
securities, derivatives and other instruments, and suppress
capital markets activities, all of which could have adverse
effects on JPMorgan Chase’s results of operations. In addition,
to the extent that appropriate relief is not provided by
accounting standard setters with respect to the transition from
benchmark rates, the transition could:
•affect hedge accounting relationships between financial
instruments linked to a particular benchmark and any
related derivatives, which could adversely affect
JPMorgan Chase’s results of operations, or
•increase JPMorgan Chase’s operational costs with respect
to the determination of whether the transition
 15
Part I
has resulted in the modification or extinguishment of
specific contracts for accounting purposes.
Representatives of the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (the
“FCA”), which regulates the London interbank offered rate
(“LIBOR”), have made a series of public statements during the
past several years to the effect that:
•the FCA will no longer persuade or compel banks to
submit rates for the calculation of the LIBOR benchmark
after 2021, and
•once a significant number of banks are no longer
submitting such rates, the FCA may make a determination
under applicable regulations that the LIBOR benchmark
may not meet the standards required under those
regulations for use as a benchmark.
These statements indicate that it is highly likely that LIBOR
will be discontinued on or about the end of 2021. Vast amounts
of loans, mortgages, securities, derivatives and other financial
instruments are linked to the LIBOR benchmark, and any
inability of market participants and regulators to successfully
introduce benchmark rates to replace LIBOR and implement
effective transitional arrangements to address the
discontinuation of LIBOR could result in disruption in the
financial markets and suppress capital markets activities, all of
which could have a negative impact on JPMorgan Chase’s
results of operations and on LIBOR-linked securities, credit or
other instruments which are issued, funded, serviced or held by
JPMorgan Chase.
JPMorgan Chase could also become involved in litigation and
other types of disputes with clients, customers, counterparties
and investors as a consequence of the transition from LIBOR
and other benchmark rates to replacement rates, including
claims that JPMorgan Chase has:
•treated clients, customers, counterparties or investors
unfairly, or caused them to experience losses, higher
financing costs or lower returns on investments
•failed to appropriately communicate the effects of the
transition from benchmark rates on the products that
JPMorgan Chase has sold to its clients and customers, or
failed to disclose purported conflicts of interest
•made inappropriate product recommendations to or
investments on behalf of its clients, or sold products that
did not serve their intended purpose, in connection with
the transition from benchmark rates
•engaged in anti-competitive behavior, or in the
manipulation of markets or specific benchmarks, in
connection with the discontinuation of or transition from
benchmark rates, or
•disadvantaged clients, customers, counterparties or
investors when interpreting or making determinations
under the terms of agreements or financial instruments. These types of claims could subject JPMorgan Chase to higher
legal expenses and operational costs, require it to pay
significant amounts in connection with resolving litigation and
other disputes, and harm its reputation.
Capital
Maintaining the appropriate level and composition of
capital is critical to support JPMorgan Chase’s business
activities, meet regulatory requirements and distribute
capital to shareholders.
JPMorgan Chase is subject to various regulatory capital
requirements, and although many of these requirements have
been finalized, prudential regulators have recently issued new
regulatory capital proposals, and continued uncertainty
remains as to the manner in which these requirements
ultimately will apply to JPMorgan Chase. As a result, it is
possible that these requirements could limit JPMorgan Chase’s
ability to support its businesses and make capital distributions
to its shareholders.
JPMorgan Chase is required to submit, on an annual basis, a
capital plan describing proposed dividend payments to
shareholders, redemptions and repurchases of its outstanding
securities and other capital actions that it intends to take.
JPMorgan Chase considers various factors in the management
of capital, including the impact of stress on its capital levels, as
determined by both internal modeling and the Federal
Reserve’s modeling of JPMorgan Chase’s capital position in
supervisory stress tests and CCAR. Because the Federal
Reserve and JPMorgan Chase use different forecasting models
and methodologies when determining stress test results, there
can be significant differences between the estimates of stress
loss as determined by the Federal Reserve and JPMorgan
Chase, respectively. The Federal Reserve may object to or
require modifications to JPMorgan Chase’s capital plan, or
JPMorgan Chase may otherwise modify its capital plan, and
any such modification could have an adverse effect on
JPMorgan Chase’s shareholders, including by:
•constraining the amount of dividends that may be paid on
common stock
•reducing the amount of common stock that JPMorgan
Chase is permitted to repurchase
•requiring the issuance of, or prohibiting the redemption of,
capital instruments in a manner inconsistent with
JPMorgan Chase’s capital management strategy
•curtailing JPMorgan Chase’s business activities or
operations, or
•damaging JPMorgan Chase’s reputation.
16  
Operational
JPMorgan Chase’s businesses are highly dependent on the
effectiveness of its operational systems and those of other
market participants.
JPMorgan Chase’s businesses rely comprehensively on the
ability of JPMorgan Chase’s financial, accounting, transaction
execution, data processing and other operational systems to
process, record, monitor and report a large number of
transactions on a continuous basis, and to do so accurately,
quickly and securely. In addition to proper design, installation,
maintenance and training, the effective functioning of
JPMorgan Chase’s operational systems depends on:
•the quality of the information contained in those systems,
as inaccurate, outdated or corrupted data can significantly
compromise the functionality or reliability of a particular
system and other systems to which it transmits or from
which it receives information, and
•JPMorgan Chase’s ability to appropriately maintain and
upgrade its systems on a regular basis, and to ensure that
any changes introduced to its systems are managed
carefully to ensure security and operational continuity and
adhere to all applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
JPMorgan Chase also depends on its ability to access and use
the operational systems of its vendors, custodians and other
market participants, including clearing and payment systems,
CCPs, securities exchanges and data processing, security and
technology companies.
The ineffectiveness, failure or other disruption of operational
systems upon which JPMorgan Chase depends, including due
to a systems malfunction, cyberbreach or other systems failure,
could result in unfavorable ripple effects in the financial
markets and for JPMorgan Chase and its clients and customers,
including:
•delays or other disruptions in providing information,
services and liquidity to clients and customers
•the inability to settle transactions or obtain access to funds
and other assets, including those for which physical
settlement and delivery is required
•failure to timely settle or confirm transactions
•the possibility that funds transfers, capital markets trades
or other transactions are executed erroneously, illegally or
with unintended consequences
•financial losses, including due to loss-sharing
requirements of CCPs, payment systems or other market
infrastructures, or as possible restitution to clients and
customers
•higher operational costs associated with replacing services
provided by a system that is unavailable
•client or customer dissatisfaction with JPMorgan Chase’s
products and services •loss of confidence in the ability of JPMorgan Chase, or
financial institutions generally, to protect against and
withstand operational disruptions, or
•harm to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation.
As the speed, frequency, volume, interconnectivity and
complexity of transactions continue to increase, it becomes
more challenging to effectively maintain and upgrade
JPMorgan Chase’s operational systems and infrastructure,
especially due to the heightened risks that:
•errors made by JPMorgan Chase or another market
participant, whether inadvertent or malicious, cause
widespread system disruption
•isolated or seemingly insignificant errors in operational
systems compound, or migrate to other systems over time,
to become larger issues
•failures in synchronization or encryption software, or
degraded performance of microprocessors due to design
flaws, could cause disruptions in operational systems, or
the inability of systems to communicate with each other,
and
•third parties may attempt to block the use of key
technology solutions by claiming that the use infringes on
their intellectual property rights.
If JPMorgan Chase’s operational systems, or those of external
parties on which JPMorgan Chase’s businesses depend, are
unable to meet the demanding standards of JPMorgan Chase’s
businesses and operations, or if they fail or have other
significant shortcomings, JPMorgan Chase could be materially
and adversely affected.
JPMorgan Chase can be negatively affected if it fails to
identify and address operational risks associated with the
introduction of or changes to products, services and
delivery platforms.
When JPMorgan Chase launches a new product or service,
introduces a new platform for the delivery or distribution of
products or services (including mobile connectivity, electronic
trading and cloud computing), or makes changes to an existing
product, service or delivery platform, it may not fully
appreciate or identify new operational risks that may arise
from those changes, or may fail to implement adequate
controls to mitigate the risks associated with those changes.
Any significant failure in this regard could diminish JPMorgan
Chase’s ability to operate one or more of its businesses or
result in:
•potential liability to clients, counterparties and customers
•increased operating expenses
•higher litigation costs, including regulatory fines, penalties
and other sanctions
•damage to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation
•impairment of JPMorgan Chase’s liquidity
 17
Part I
•regulatory intervention, or
•weaker competitive standing.
Any of the foregoing consequences could materially and
adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s businesses and results of
operations.
JPMorgan Chase’s connections to external operational
systems expose it to greater operational risks.
External operational systems with which JPMorgan is
connected, whether directly or indirectly, can be sources of
operational risk to JPMorgan Chase. JPMorgan Chase may be
exposed not only to a systems failure that may be experienced
by a vendor or market infrastructure with which JPMorgan
Chase is directly connected, but also to a systems breakdown
of another party to which such a vendor or infrastructure is
connected. Similarly, retailers, data aggregators and other
external parties with which JPMorgan Chase’s customers do
business can increase JPMorgan Chase’s operational risk. This
is particularly the case where activities of customers or those
parties are beyond JPMorgan Chase’s security and control
systems, including through the use of the internet, cloud
computing services and personal smart phones and other
mobile devices or services.
If an external party obtains access to customer account data on
JPMorgan Chase’s systems, and that party experiences a
cyberbreach of its own systems or misappropriates that data,
this could result in a variety of negative outcomes for
JPMorgan Chase and its clients and customers, including:
•heightened risk that external parties will be able to execute
fraudulent transactions using JPMorgan Chase’s systems
•losses from fraudulent transactions, as well as potential
liability for losses that exceed thresholds established in
consumer protection laws and regulations
•increased operational costs to remediate the consequences
of the external party’s security breach, and
•harm to reputation arising from the perception that
JPMorgan Chase’s systems may not be secure.
As JPMorgan Chase’s interconnectivity with clients, customers
and other external parties expands, JPMorgan Chase
increasingly faces the risk of operational failure with respect to
the systems of those parties. Security breaches affecting
JPMorgan Chase’s clients or customers, or systems
breakdowns or failures, security breaches or human error or
misconduct affecting other external parties, may require
JPMorgan Chase to take steps to protect the integrity of its
own operational systems or to safeguard confidential
information, including restricting the access of customers to
their accounts. These actions can increase JPMorgan Chase’s
operational costs and potentially diminish customer
satisfaction and confidence in JPMorgan Chase. Furthermore, the widespread and expanding interconnectivity
among financial institutions, central agents, CCPs, payment
processors, securities exchanges, clearing houses and other
financial market infrastructures increases the risk that an
operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an
industry-wide operational failure that could materially affect
JPMorgan Chase’s ability to conduct business.
JPMorgan Chase’s operations depend on the competence
and integrity of its employees and those of external parties.
JPMorgan Chase’s ability to operate its businesses efficiently
and profitably, to offer products and services that meet the
expectations of its clients and customers, and to maintain an
effective risk management framework is highly dependent on
the competence and integrity of its employees, as well as
employees of other parties on which JPMorgan Chase’s
operations rely, including vendors, custodians and financial
markets infrastructures. JPMorgan Chase’s businesses could be
materially and adversely affected by:
•the ineffective implementation of business decisions
•any failure to institute controls that appropriately address
risks associated with business activities, or to
appropriately train employees with respect to those risks
and controls
•a significant operational breakdown or failure, theft, fraud
or other unlawful conduct, or
•other negative outcomes caused by human error or
misconduct by an employee of JPMorgan Chase or of
another party on which JPMorgan Chase’s operations
depend.
JPMorgan Chase faces substantial legal and operational
risks in safeguarding personal information.
JPMorgan Chase’s businesses are subject to complex and
evolving laws and regulations, both within and outside the
U.S., governing the privacy and protection of personal
information of individuals. The protected parties can include:
•JPMorgan Chase’s clients and customers, and prospective
clients and customers
•clients and customers of JPMorgan Chase’s clients and
customers
•employees and prospective employees, and
•employees of JPMorgan Chase’s vendors, counterparties
and other external parties.
Ensuring that JPMorgan Chase’s collection, use, transfer and
storage of personal information comply with all applicable
laws and regulations in all relevant jurisdictions, including
where the laws of different jurisdictions are in conflict, can:
•increase JPMorgan Chase’s compliance and operating
costs
18  
•hinder the development of new products or services,
curtail the offering of existing products or services, or
affect how products and services are offered to clients and
customers
•demand significant oversight by JPMorgan Chase’s
management, and
•require JPMorgan Chase to structure its businesses,
operations and systems in less efficient ways.
Furthermore, JPMorgan Chase cannot ensure that all of its
clients and customers, vendors, counterparties and other
external parties have appropriate controls in place to protect
the confidentiality of the information exchanged between them
and JPMorgan Chase, particularly where information is
transmitted by electronic means. JPMorgan Chase could be
exposed to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other
sanctions if personal, confidential or proprietary information of
clients, customers, employees or others were to be mishandled
or misused, such as situations where such information is:
•erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to
have the information, or
•intercepted or otherwise compromised by third parties.
Concerns regarding the effectiveness of JPMorgan Chase’s
measures to safeguard personal information, or even the
perception that those measures are inadequate, could cause
JPMorgan Chase to lose existing or potential clients and
customers, and thereby reduce JPMorgan Chase’s revenues.
Furthermore, any failure or perceived failure by JPMorgan
Chase to comply with applicable privacy or data protection
laws and regulations may subject it to inquiries, examinations
and investigations that could result in requirements to modify
or cease certain operations or practices, significant liabilities or
regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions. Any of these
could damage JPMorgan Chase’s reputation and otherwise
adversely affect its businesses.
In recent years, well-publicized allegations involving the
misuse or inappropriate sharing of personal information have
led to expanded governmental scrutiny of practices relating to
the safeguarding of personal information and the use or sharing
of personal data by companies in the U.S. and other countries.
That scrutiny has in some cases resulted in, and could in the
future lead to, the adoption of stricter laws and regulations
relating to the use and sharing of personal information. These
types of laws and regulations could prohibit or significantly
restrict financial services firms such as JPMorgan Chase from
sharing information among affiliates or with third parties such
as vendors, and thereby increase compliance costs, or could
restrict JPMorgan Chase’s use of personal data when
developing or offering products or services to customers.
These restrictions could also inhibit JPMorgan Chase’s
development or marketing of certain products or services, or
increase the costs of offering them to customers. A successful cyberattack against JPMorgan Chase could
cause significant harm to JPMorgan Chase or its clients
and customers.
JPMorgan Chase experiences numerous cyberattacks on its
computer systems, software, networks and other technology
assets on a daily basis from various actors, including cyber-
criminals and “hacktivists” (i.e., individuals or groups that use
technology to promote a political agenda or social change).
These cyberattacks can take many forms, but a common
objective of many of these attacks is to introduce computer
viruses or malware into JPMorgan Chase’s systems. These
viruses or malicious code are typically designed to:
•obtain unauthorized access to confidential information
belonging to JPMorgan Chase or its clients, customers,
counterparties or employees
•manipulate or destroy data
•disrupt, sabotage or degrade service on JPMorgan Chase’s
systems, or
•steal money.
JPMorgan Chase has also experienced significant distributed
denial-of-service attacks which are intended to disrupt online
banking services.
JPMorgan Chase devotes significant resources to maintain and
regularly upgrade its systems to protect them against
cyberattacks. However, JPMorgan Chase has experienced
security breaches due to cyberattacks in the past, and it is
inevitable that additional breaches will occur in the future. Any
such breach could result in serious and harmful consequences
for JPMorgan Chase or its clients and customers.
A principal reason that JPMorgan Chase cannot provide
absolute security against cyberattacks is that it may not always
be possible to anticipate, detect or recognize threats to
JPMorgan Chase’s systems, or to implement effective
preventive measures against all breaches. This is because:
•the techniques used in cyberattacks change frequently and
are increasingly sophisticated, and therefore may not be
recognized until launched
•cyberattacks can originate from a wide variety of sources,
including third parties who are or may be involved in
organized crime or linked to terrorist organizations or
hostile countries, or whose objective is to disrupt the
operations of financial institutions more generally
•JPMorgan Chase does not have control over the
cybersecurity of the systems of the large number of
clients, customers, counterparties and third-party service
providers with which it does business
•third parties may seek to gain access to JPMorgan Chase’s
systems either directly or using equipment or security
passwords belonging to employees, customers,
 19
Part I
third-party service providers or other users of JPMorgan
Chase’s systems, and
•it is possible that a third party, after establishing a foothold
on an internal network without being detected, might
obtain access to other networks and systems.
The risk of a security breach due to a cyberattack could
increase in the future as JPMorgan Chase continues to expand
its mobile banking and other internet-based product offerings
and its internal use of internet-based products and applications.
A successful penetration or circumvention of the security of
JPMorgan Chase’s systems or the systems of a vendor,
governmental body or another market participant could cause
serious negative consequences, including:
•significant disruption of JPMorgan Chase’s operations and
those of its clients, customers and counterparties,
including losing access to operational systems
•misappropriation of confidential information of JPMorgan
Chase or that of its clients, customers, counterparties,
employees or regulators
•damage to computers or systems of JPMorgan Chase and
those of its clients, customers and counterparties
•inability to fully recover and restore data that has been
stolen, manipulated or destroyed, or to prevent systems
from processing fraudulent transactions
•violations by JPMorgan Chase of applicable privacy and
other laws
•financial loss to JPMorgan Chase or to its clients,
customers, counterparties or employees
•loss of confidence in JPMorgan Chase’s cybersecurity
measures
•dissatisfaction among JPMorgan Chase’s clients,
customers or counterparties
•significant exposure to litigation and regulatory fines,
penalties or other sanctions, and
•harm to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation.
JPMorgan Chase could also suffer some of the above
consequences if a third party were to misappropriate
confidential information obtained by intercepting signals or
communications from mobile devices used by JPMorgan
Chase’s employees.
The extent of a particular cyberattack and the steps that
JPMorgan Chase may need to take to investigate the attack
may not be immediately clear, and it may take a significant
amount of time before such an investigation can be completed.
While such an investigation is ongoing, JPMorgan Chase may
not necessarily know the full extent of the harm caused by the
cyberattack, and that damage may continue to spread. These
factors may inhibit JPMorgan Chase’s ability to provide full
and reliable information about the cyberattack to its clients, customers, counterparties and
regulators, as well as the public. Furthermore, it may not be
clear how best to contain and remediate the harm caused by the
cyberattack, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or
compounded before they are discovered and remediated. Any
or all of these factors could further increase the costs and
consequences of a cyberattack.
JPMorgan Chase’s operations, results and reputation could
be harmed by catastrophes or other events.
JPMorgan Chase’s business and operational systems could be
seriously disrupted, and its reputation could be harmed, by
events or contributing factors that are wholly or partially
beyond its control, including:
•cyberbreaches or breaches of physical premises, including
data centers
•power, telecommunications or internet outages
•failures of, or loss of access to, operational systems,
including computer systems, servers, networks and other
technology assets
•damage to or loss of property or assets of JPMorgan Chase
or third parties, and any consequent injuries, including in
connection with any construction projects undertaken by
JPMorgan Chase
•effects of climate change
•natural disasters or severe weather conditions
•accidents such as explosions or structural failures
•health emergencies, the spread of infectious diseases or
pandemics, or
•events arising from local or larger-scale political events,
including outbreaks of hostilities or terrorist acts.
JPMorgan Chase maintains a firmwide resiliency program that
is intended to enable it to recover critical business functions
and supporting assets, including staff, technology and
facilities, in the event of a business interruption. There can be
no assurance that JPMorgan Chase’s resiliency plans will fully
mitigate all potential business continuity risks to JPMorgan
Chase or its clients and customers. In particular, JPMorgan
Chase’s ability to respond effectively to a business interruption
could be hampered to the extent that the members of its
workforce, physical assets or systems and other support
infrastructure needed to address the event are geographically
dispersed, or conversely, if a catastrophic event occurs in an
area in which a critical segment of JPMorgan Chase’s
workforce, physical assets or systems and other support
infrastructure is concentrated. In addition, should emergency
or catastrophic events such as severe or abnormal weather
conditions become more chronic, the disruptive effects of
those events on JPMorgan Chase’s business and operations,
and on its clients, customers, counterparties and employees,
could become more significant and long-lasting.
20  
Any significant failure or disruption of JPMorgan Chase’s
operations or operational systems, or any catastrophic event,
could:
•hinder JPMorgan Chase’s ability to provide services to its
clients and customers or to transact with its counterparties
•require it to expend significant resources to correct the
failure or disruption
•cause it to incur losses or liabilities, including from loss of
revenue, damage to or loss of property, or injuries
•expose it to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other
sanctions, and
•harm its reputation.
JPMorgan Chase’s risk management framework may not
be effective in identifying and mitigating every risk to
JPMorgan Chase.
Any inadequacy or lapse in JPMorgan Chase’s risk
management framework, governance structure, practices,
models or reporting systems could expose it to unexpected
losses, and its financial condition or results of operations could
be materially and adversely affected. In addition, any such
inadequacy or lapse could:
•require significant resources to remediate
•attract heightened regulatory scrutiny
•expose JPMorgan Chase to regulatory investigations or
legal proceedings
•subject it to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or
other sanctions
•harm its reputation, or
•otherwise diminish confidence in JPMorgan Chase.
JPMorgan Chase relies on data to assess its various risk
exposures. Any deficiencies in the quality or effectiveness of
JPMorgan Chase’s data gathering and validation processes
could result in ineffective risk management practices. These
deficiencies could also result in inaccurate risk reporting.
Many of JPMorgan Chase’s risk management strategies and
techniques consider historical market behavior.  These
strategies and techniques are based to some degree on
management’s subjective judgment. For example, many
models used by JPMorgan Chase are based on assumptions
regarding historical correlations among prices of various asset
classes or other market indicators. In times of market stress,
including difficult or less liquid market environments, or in the
event of other unforeseen circumstances, previously
uncorrelated indicators may become correlated.  Conversely,
previously-correlated indicators may make unrelated
movements at those times. Sudden market movements and
unanticipated or unidentified market or economic movements
could, in some circumstances, limit the effectiveness of
JPMorgan Chase’s risk management strategies, causing it to
incur losses. JPMorgan Chase could incur significant losses, its capital
levels could be reduced and it could face greater regulatory
scrutiny if its models or estimations prove to be inadequate.
JPMorgan Chase has developed and uses a variety of models
and other analytical and judgment-based estimations to
measure, monitor and implement controls over its market,
credit, liquidity, operational and other risks. These models and
estimations are based on a variety of assumptions and
historical trends, and are periodically reviewed and modified
as necessary. The models and estimations that JPMorgan
Chase uses may not be effective in all cases to identify,
observe and mitigate risk due to a variety of factors, such as:
•reliance on historical trends that may not accurately
predict future events, including assumptions underlying
the models and estimations which predict correlation
among certain market indicators or asset prices
•inherent limitations associated with forecasting uncertain
economic and financial outcomes
•historical trend information may be incomplete, or may
not anticipate severely negative market conditions such as
extreme volatility, dislocation or lack of liquidity
•technology that is introduced to run models or estimations
may not perform as expected, or may not be well
understood by the personnel using the technology
•models and estimations may contain erroneous data,
valuations, formulas or algorithms, and
•review processes may fail to detect flaws in models and
estimations.
Some of the models and other analytical and judgment-based
estimations used by JPMorgan Chase in managing risks are
subject to review by, and require the approval of, JPMorgan
Chase’s regulators. These reviews are required before
JPMorgan Chase may use those models and estimations in
connection with calculating market risk RWA, credit risk RWA
and operational risk RWA under Basel III. If JPMorgan
Chase’s models or estimations are not approved by its
regulators, it may be subject to higher capital charges, which
could adversely affect its financial results or limit the ability to
expand its businesses. JPMorgan Chase’s capital actions could
also be constrained if a CCAR submission is not approved by
its banking regulators due to the perceived inadequacy of its
models or estimations.
Enhanced regulatory and other standards for the oversight
of vendors and other service providers can result in higher
costs and other potential exposures.
JPMorgan Chase must comply with enhanced regulatory and
other standards associated with doing business with vendors
and other service providers, including standards relating to the
outsourcing of functions as well as the performance of
significant banking and other functions by subsidiaries.
JPMorgan Chase incurs significant costs and
 21
Part I
expenses in connection with its initiatives to address the risks
associated with oversight of its internal and external service
providers. JPMorgan Chase’s failure to appropriately assess
and manage these relationships, especially those involving
significant banking functions, shared services or other critical
activities, could materially adversely affect JPMorgan Chase.
Specifically, any such failure could result in:
•potential liability to clients and customers
•regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions
•lower revenues, and the opportunity cost from lost
revenues
•increased operational costs, or
•harm to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation.
JPMorgan Chase could incur unexpected losses if estimates
and judgments underlying its financial statements are
incorrect.
Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”), JPMorgan Chase is required to use estimates and
apply judgments in preparing its financial statements,
including in determining the allowance for credit losses and
reserves related to litigation. Certain financial instruments
require a determination of their fair value in order to prepare
JPMorgan Chase’s financial statements, including:
•trading assets and liabilities
•instruments in the investment portfolio
•certain loans
•MSRs
•structured notes, and
•certain repurchase and resale agreements.
Where quoted market prices are not available for these types of
financial instruments, JPMorgan Chase may make fair value
determinations based on internally developed models or other
means which ultimately rely to some degree on management
estimates and judgment, and these types of estimates and
judgments may not prove to be accurate due to a variety of
factors, as noted above. In addition, sudden illiquidity in
markets or declines in prices of certain loans and securities
may make it more difficult to value certain financial
instruments, which could lead to valuations being subsequently
changed or adjusted. If estimates or judgments underlying
JPMorgan Chase’s financial statements prove to have been
incorrect, JPMorgan Chase may experience material losses.
JPMorgan Chase establishes an allowance for expected credit
losses that are inherent in its credit exposures. It then employs
stress testing and other techniques to determine the amounts of
capital and liquidity that would be needed in the event of
adverse economic or market events. These processes are
critical to JPMorgan Chase’s results of operations and financial
condition. They require difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of how
economic conditions might impair the ability of JPMorgan
Chase’s borrowers and counterparties to repay their loans or
other obligations. It is possible that JPMorgan Chase will fail
to identify the proper factors or that it will fail to accurately
estimate the impact of factors that it identifies.
Lapses in controls over disclosure or financial reporting
could materially affect JPMorgan Chase’s profitability or
reputation.
There can be no assurance that JPMorgan Chase’s disclosure
controls and procedures will be effective in every
circumstance, or that a material weakness or significant
deficiency in internal control over financial reporting will not
occur. Any such lapses or deficiencies could:
•materially and adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s
business and results of operations or financial condition
•restrict its ability to access the capital markets
•require it to expend significant resources to correct the
lapses or deficiencies
•expose it to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other
sanctions
•harm its reputation, or
•otherwise diminish investor confidence in JPMorgan
Chase.
JPMorgan Chase could be adversely affected by changes in
accounting standards or policies.
The preparation of JPMorgan Chase’s financial statements is
based on accounting standards established by the Financial
Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange
Commission, as well as more detailed accounting policies
established by JPMorgan Chase’s management. From time to
time these accounting standards or accounting policies may
change, and in some cases these changes could have a
significant effect on JPMorgan Chase’s financial statements
and may adversely affect its financial results or investor
perceptions of those results.
As of January 1, 2020, JPMorgan Chase has implemented a
new accounting standard, commonly referred to as the Current
Expected Credit Losses (“CECL”) framework, which requires
earlier recognition of expected credit losses on loans and
certain other instruments. The allowance for credit losses
related to JPMorgan Chase’s loans and other lending-related
commitments increased as a result of the implementation of
CECL, which has a negative impact on JPMorgan Chase’s
capital levels.
The ongoing impact of the adoption of CECL could include the
following, each of which could result in diminished investor
confidence:
•greater volatility in JPMorgan Chase’s earnings and
capital levels over economic cycles
22  
•potential reductions in its capital distributions, or
•unexpected increases in the allowance for credit losses.
In addition, JPMorgan Chase could be adversely impacted by
associated changes in the competitive environment in which it
operates, including changes in the availability or pricing of
loan products, particularly during periods of economic
stress, as well as changes related to non-U.S. financial
institutions or other competitors that are not subject to this
accounting standard.
Strategic
If JPMorgan Chase’s management fails to develop and
execute effective business strategies, and to anticipate
changes affecting those strategies, JPMorgan Chase’s
competitive standing and results could suffer.
JPMorgan Chase’s business strategies significantly affect its
competitive standing and operations. These strategies relate to:
•the products and services that JPMorgan Chase offers
•the geographies in which it operates
•the types of clients and customers that it serves
•the counterparties with which it does business, and
•the methods and distribution channels by which it offers
products and services.
If management makes choices about these strategies and goals
that prove to be incorrect, do not accurately assess the
competitive landscape and industry trends, or fail to address
changing regulatory and market environments, then the
franchise values and growth prospects of JPMorgan Chase’s
businesses may suffer and its earnings could decline.
JPMorgan Chase’s growth prospects also depend on
management’s ability to develop and execute effective
business plans to address these strategic priorities, both in the
near term and over longer time horizons. Management’s
effectiveness in this regard will affect JPMorgan Chase’s
ability to develop and enhance its resources, control expenses
and return capital to shareholders. Each of these objectives
could be adversely affected by any failure on the part of
management to:
•devise effective business plans and strategies
•offer products and services that meet changing
expectations of clients and customers
•allocate capital in a manner that promotes long-term
stability to enable JPMorgan Chase to build and invest in
market-leading businesses, even in a highly stressed
environment
•allocate capital appropriately due to imprecise modeling
or subjective judgments made in connection with those
allocations
•appropriately address shareholder concerns •react quickly to changes in market conditions or market
structures, or
•develop and enhance the operational, technology, risk,
financial and managerial resources necessary to grow and
manage JPMorgan Chase’s businesses.
Additionally, JPMorgan Chase’s Board of Directors plays an
important role in exercising appropriate oversight of
management’s significant strategic decisions, and a failure by
the Board to perform this function could also impair JPMorgan
Chase’s results of operations.
JPMorgan Chase faces significant and increasing
competition in the rapidly evolving financial services
industry.
JPMorgan Chase operates in a highly competitive environment
in which it must evolve and adapt to the significant changes as
a result of financial regulatory reform, technological advances,
increased public scrutiny and current economic conditions.
JPMorgan Chase expects that competition in the U.S. and
global financial services industry will continue to be intense.
Competitors include:
•other banks and financial institutions
•trading, advisory and investment management firms
•finance companies and technology companies, and
•other nonbank firms that are engaged in providing similar
products and services.
JPMorgan Chase cannot provide assurance that the significant
competition in the financial services industry will not
materially and adversely affect its future results of operations.
New competitors in the financial services industry continue to
emerge. For example, technological advances and the growth
of e-commerce have made it possible for non-depository
institutions to offer products and services that traditionally
were banking products. These advances have also allowed
financial institutions and other companies to provide electronic
and internet-based financial solutions, including electronic
securities trading, payments processing and online automated
algorithmic-based investment advice. Furthermore, both
financial institutions and their non-banking competitors face
the risk that payments processing and other services could be
significantly disrupted by technologies, such as
cryptocurrencies, that require no intermediation. New
technologies have required and could require JPMorgan Chase
to spend more to modify or adapt its products to attract and
retain clients and customers or to match products and services
offered by its competitors, including technology companies. In
addition, new technologies may be used by customers, or
breached or infiltrated by third parties, in unexpected ways,
which can increase JPMorgan Chase’s costs for complying
with laws and regulations that apply to the offering of products
and services through those technologies and reduce the income
 23
Part I
that JPMorgan Chase earns from providing products and
services through those new technologies.
Ongoing or increased competition may put pressure on the
pricing for JPMorgan Chase’s products and services or may
cause JPMorgan Chase to lose market share, particularly with
respect to traditional banking products such as deposits and
bank accounts. This competition may be on the basis of quality
and variety of products and services offered, transaction
execution, innovation, reputation and price. The failure of any
of JPMorgan Chase’s businesses to meet the expectations of
clients and customers, whether due to general market
conditions, under-performance, a decision not to offer a
particular product or service, changes in client and customer
expectations or other factors, could affect JPMorgan Chase’s
ability to attract or retain clients and customers. Any such
impact could, in turn, reduce JPMorgan Chase’s revenues.
Increased competition also may require JPMorgan Chase to
make additional capital investments in its businesses, or to
extend more of its capital on behalf of its clients in order to
remain competitive.
Climate change could have a material adverse impact on
JPMorgan Chase’s business operations, clients and
customers.
JPMorgan Chase operates in many regions, countries and
communities around the world where its businesses, and the
activities of its clients and customers, could be disrupted by
climate change. Potential physical risks from climate change
may include:
•altered distribution and intensity of rainfall
•prolonged droughts or flooding
•increased frequency of wildfires
•rising sea levels
•rising heat index
In addition, these physical changes may prompt changes in
regulations or consumer preferences which in turn could have
negative consequences for the business models of JPMorgan
Chase’s clients.
These climate driven changes could have a material adverse
impact on asset values and the financial performance of
JPMorgan Chase’s businesses, and those of its clients and
customers.
Conduct
Conduct failure by JPMorgan Chase employees can harm
clients and customers, impact market integrity, damage
JPMorgan Chase’s reputation and trigger litigation and
regulatory action.
JPMorgan Chase’s employees interact with clients, customers
and counterparties, and with each other, every day. All
employees are expected to demonstrate values and exhibit the
behaviors that are an integral part of JPMorgan Chase’s How
We Do Business Principles, including JPMorgan Chase’s commitment to “do first class business in a first class
way.” JPMorgan Chase endeavors to embed conduct risk
management throughout an employee’s life cycle, including
recruiting, onboarding, training and development, and
performance management. Conduct risk management is also
an integral component of JPMorgan Chase’s promotion and
compensation processes.
Notwithstanding these expectations, policies and practices,
certain employees have in the past engaged in improper or
illegal conduct, and these instances of misconduct have
resulted in litigation as well as resolutions of governmental
investigations or enforcement actions involving consent
orders, deferred prosecution agreements, non-prosecution
agreements and other civil or criminal sanctions. There is no
assurance that further inappropriate or unlawful actions by
employees will not occur or that any such actions will always
be detected, deterred or prevented.
JPMorgan Chase’s reputation could be harmed, and collateral
consequences could result, from a failure by one or more
employees to act consistently with JPMorgan Chase’s
expectations, policies and practices, including by acting in
ways that harm clients, customers, other market participants or
other employees. Some examples of this include:
•improperly selling and marketing JPMorgan Chase’s
products or services
•engaging in insider trading, market manipulation or
unauthorized trading
•facilitating illegal or aggressive tax-motivated
transactions, or transactions designed to circumvent
economic sanction programs
•failing to fulfill fiduciary obligations or other duties owed
to clients or customers
•violating anti-trust or anti-competition laws by colluding
with other market participants to manipulate markets,
prices or indices
•engaging in discriminatory behavior or harassment
•making risk decisions in ways that subordinate JPMorgan
Chase’s risk appetite to employee compensation
objectives, and
•misappropriating property, confidential or proprietary
information, or technology assets belonging to JPMorgan
Chase, its clients and customers or third parties.
The consequences of any failure by employees to act
consistently with JPMorgan Chase’s expectations, policies or
practices could include litigation, or regulatory or other
governmental investigations or enforcement actions. Any of
these proceedings or actions could result in judgments,
settlements, fines, penalties or other sanctions, or lead to:
•financial losses
•increased operational and compliance costs
24  
•greater scrutiny by regulators and other parties
•regulatory actions that require JPMorgan Chase to
restructure, curtail or cease certain of its activities
•the need for significant oversight by JPMorgan Chase’s
management
•loss of clients or customers, and
•harm to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation.
Reputation
Damage to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation could harm its
businesses.
Maintaining trust in JPMorgan Chase is critical to its ability to
attract and retain clients, customers, investors and employees.
Damage to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation can therefore cause
significant harm to JPMorgan Chase’s business and prospects.
Harm to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation can arise from
numerous sources, including:
•employee misconduct, including discriminatory behavior
or harassment
•security breaches, including cyberattacks
•failure to safeguard client, customer or employee
information
•failure to manage environmental, social and sustainability
risk issues associated with its business activities or those
of its clients
•compliance or operational failures
•litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions
•regulatory investigations or enforcement actions, or
resolutions of these matters, and
•failure or perceived failure of clients, customers,
counterparties or other parties to comply with laws or
regulations, including companies in which JPMorgan
Chase has made principal investments, parties to joint
ventures with JPMorgan Chase, and vendors with which
JPMorgan Chase does business.
JPMorgan Chase’s reputation may be significantly damaged by
adverse publicity or negative information regarding JPMorgan
Chase, whether or not true, that may be published or broadcast
by the media or posted on social media, non-mainstream news
services or other parts of the internet. This latter risk can be
magnified by the speed and pervasiveness with which
information is disseminated through those channels.
Social and environmental activists are increasingly targeting
financial services firms such as JPMorgan Chase with public
criticism for their relationships with clients that are engaged in
certain sensitive industries, including businesses whose
products are or are perceived to be harmful to human health, or
whose activities negatively affect or are perceived to
negatively affect the environment, workers’ rights or communities. Activists have also engaged in public
protests at JPMorgan Chase’s headquarters and other
properties. Activist criticism of JPMorgan Chase’s
relationships with clients in sensitive industries could
potentially engender dissatisfaction among clients, customers,
investors and employees with how JPMorgan Chase addresses
social and environmental concerns in its business activities.
Alternatively, yielding to activism targeted at certain sensitive
industries could damage JPMorgan Chase’s relationships with
clients and customers, and with governmental bodies in
jurisdictions in which JPMorgan Chase does business, whose
views are not aligned with those of social and environmental
activists. In either case, the resulting harm to JPMorgan
Chase’s reputation could:
•cause certain clients and customers to cease doing
business with JPMorgan Chase
•impair JPMorgan Chase’s ability to attract new clients and
customers, or to expand its relationships with existing
clients and customers
•diminish JPMorgan Chase’s ability to hire or retain
employees, or
•prompt JPMorgan Chase to cease doing business with
certain clients or customers.
Actions by the financial services industry generally or
individuals in the industry can also affect JPMorgan Chase’s
reputation. For example, concerns that consumers have been
treated unfairly by a financial institution, or that a financial
institution has acted inappropriately with respect to the
methods used to offer products to customers, can damage the
reputation of the industry as a whole. If JPMorgan Chase is
perceived to have engaged in these types of behaviors, this
could weaken its reputation among clients or customers.
Failure to effectively manage potential conflicts of interest
can result in litigation and enforcement actions, as well as
damage JPMorgan Chase’s reputation.
JPMorgan Chase’s ability to manage potential conflicts of
interest is highly complex due to the broad range of its
business activities which encompass a variety of transactions,
obligations and interests with and among JPMorgan Chase’s
clients and customers. JPMorgan Chase can become subject to
litigation and enforcement actions, and its reputation can be
damaged, by the failure or perceived failure to:
•adequately address or appropriately disclose conflicts of
interest, including potential conflicts of interest that may
arise in connection with providing multiple products and
services in the same transaction
•deliver appropriate standards of service and quality
•treat clients and customers with the appropriate standard
of care
 25
Part I
•use client and customer data responsibly and in a manner
that meets legal requirements and regulatory expectations
•provide fiduciary products or services in accordance with
the applicable legal and regulatory standards, or
•handle or use confidential information of customers or
clients appropriately or in compliance with applicable data
protection and privacy laws and regulations.
In the future, a failure or perceived failure to appropriately
address conflicts of interest or fiduciary obligations could
result in customer dissatisfaction, litigation and regulatory
fines, penalties or other sanctions, and heightened regulatory
scrutiny and enforcement actions, all of which can lead to lost
revenue and higher operating costs and cause serious harm to
JPMorgan Chase’s reputation.
Country
An outbreak of hostilities between countries or within a
country or region could have a material adverse effect on
the global economy and on JPMorgan Chase’s businesses
within the affected region or globally.
Aggressive actions by hostile governments or groups,
including armed conflict or intensified cyberattacks, could
expand in unpredictable ways by drawing in other countries or
escalating into full-scale war with potentially catastrophic
consequences, particularly if one or more of the combatants
possess nuclear weapons. Depending on the scope of the
conflict, the hostilities could result in:
•worldwide economic disruption
•heightened volatility in financial markets
•severe declines in asset values, accompanied by
widespread sell-offs of investments
•substantial depreciation of local currencies, potentially
leading to defaults by borrowers and counterparties in the
affected region
•disruption of global trade, and
•diminished consumer, business and investor confidence.
Any of the above consequences could have significant
negative effects on JPMorgan Chase’s operations and earnings,
both in the countries or regions directly affected by the
hostilities or globally. Further, if the U.S. were to become
directly involved in such a conflict, this could lead to a
curtailment of any operations that JPMorgan Chase may have
in the affected countries or region, as well as in any nation that
is aligned against the U.S. in the hostilities. JPMorgan Chase
could also experience more numerous and aggressive
cyberattacks launched by or under the sponsorship of one or
more of the adversaries in such a conflict. JPMorgan Chase’s business activities with governmental
entities can pose an enhanced risk of loss.
Several of JPMorgan Chase’s businesses engage in
transactions with, or trade in obligations of, governmental
entities, including national, state, provincial, municipal and
local authorities, both within and outside the U.S. These
activities can expose JPMorgan Chase to enhanced sovereign,
credit-related, operational and reputation risks, as
governmental entities have in the past, and may in the future,
taken actions such as:
•defaulting on or restructuring their obligations
•claiming that actions taken by government officials were
beyond the legal authority of those officials, or
•repudiating transactions authorized by a previous
incumbent government.
Any or all of these actions could adversely affect JPMorgan
Chase’s financial condition and results of operations and could
hurt its reputation, particularly if JPMorgan Chase pursues
claims against a government obligor in a jurisdiction in which
it has significant business relationships with clients or
customers.
JPMorgan Chase’s business and revenues in emerging
markets can be hampered by local economic, political,
regulatory and social factors.
Some of the countries in which JPMorgan Chase conducts
business have economies or markets that are less developed
and more volatile, and may have legal and regulatory regimes
that are less established or predictable, than the U.S. and other
developed markets in which JPMorgan Chase operates. Some
of these countries have in the past experienced severe
economic disruptions, including:
•extreme currency fluctuations
•high inflation
•low or negative growth, and
•defaults or potential defaults on sovereign debt.
The governments in these countries have sometimes reacted to
these developments by imposing restrictive policies that
adversely affect the local and regional business environment,
including:
•price, capital or exchange controls, including imposition
of punitive transfer and convertibility restrictions
•expropriation or nationalization of assets or confiscation
of property, including intellectual property, and
•changes in laws and regulations.
The impact of these actions could be accentuated in trading
markets that are smaller, less liquid and more volatile than
more-developed markets. These types of government actions
can negatively affect JPMorgan Chase’s operations
26  
in the relevant country, either directly or by suppressing the
business activities of local clients or multi-national clients that
conduct business in the jurisdiction. For example, some or all
of these governmental actions can result in funds belonging to
JPMorgan Chase, or that it places with a local custodian on
behalf of a client, being effectively trapped in a country. In
addition to the ultimate risk of losing the funds entirely,
JPMorgan Chase could be exposed for an extended period of
time to the credit risk of a local custodian that is now operating
in a deteriorating domestic economy.
In addition, emerging markets countries, as well as certain
more developed countries, have been susceptible to
unfavorable social developments arising from poor economic
conditions and related governmental actions, as well as natural
disasters, including:
•social unrest
•general strikes and demonstrations
•crime and corruption
•security and personal safety issues
•outbreaks of hostilities
•overthrow of incumbent governments
•terrorist attacks, and
•other forms of internal discord.
These economic, political, regulatory and social developments
have in the past resulted in, and in the future could lead to,
conditions that can adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s
operations in those countries and impair the revenues, growth
and profitability of those operations. In addition, any of these
events or circumstances in one country can affect JPMorgan
Chase’s operations and investments in another country or
countries, including in the U.S.
People
JPMorgan Chase’s ability to attract and retain qualified
employees is critical to its success.
JPMorgan Chase’s employees are its most important resource,
and in many areas of the financial services industry,
competition for qualified personnel is intense. JPMorgan
Chase endeavors to attract talented and diverse new employees
and retain and motivate its existing employees. If JPMorgan
Chase were unable to continue to attract or retain qualified
employees, including successors to the Chief Executive
Officer or members of the Operating Committee, JPMorgan
Chase’s performance, including its competitive position, could
be materially and adversely affected. Unfavorable changes in immigration policies could
adversely affect the quality of JPMorgan Chase’s
businesses and operations.
JPMorgan Chase relies on the skills, knowledge and expertise
of employees located throughout the world. Changes in
immigration policies in the U.S. and other countries that
unduly restrict or otherwise make it more difficult for
employees or their family members to work in, or transfer
among, jurisdictions in which JPMorgan Chase has operations
or conducts its business could inhibit JPMorgan Chase’s ability
to attract and retain qualified employees, and thereby dilute the
quality of its workforce, or could prompt JPMorgan Chase to
make structural changes to its worldwide operating model that
are less efficient or more costly.
Legal
JPMorgan Chase faces significant legal risks from private
actions and formal and informal regulatory and
government investigations.
JPMorgan Chase is named as a defendant or is otherwise
involved in many legal proceedings, including class actions
and other litigation or disputes with third parties. Actions
currently pending against JPMorgan Chase may result in
judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other sanctions
adverse to JPMorgan Chase. Any of these matters could
materially and adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s business,
financial condition or results of operations, or cause serious
reputational harm. As a participant in the financial services
industry, it is likely that JPMorgan Chase will continue to
experience a high level of litigation and regulatory and
government investigations related to its businesses and
operations.
Regulators and other government agencies conduct
examinations of JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries both on a
routine basis and in targeted exams, and JPMorgan Chase’s
businesses and operations are subject to heightened regulatory
oversight. This heightened regulatory scrutiny, or the results of
such an investigation or examination, may lead to additional
regulatory investigations or enforcement actions. There is no
assurance that those actions will not result in resolutions or
other enforcement actions against JPMorgan Chase.
Furthermore, a single event involving a potential violation of
law or regulation may give rise to numerous and overlapping
investigations and proceedings, either by multiple federal, state
or local agencies and officials in the U.S. or, in some instances,
regulators and other governmental officials in non-U.S.
jurisdictions.
If another financial institution violates a law or regulation
relating to a particular business activity or practice, this will
often give rise to an investigation by regulators and other
governmental agencies of the same or similar activity or
practice by JPMorgan Chase.
 27
Part I
These and other initiatives by U.S. and non-U.S. governmental
authorities may subject JPMorgan Chase to judgments,
settlements, fines, penalties or other sanctions, and may require
JPMorgan Chase to restructure its operations and activities or
to cease offering certain products or services. All of these
potential outcomes could harm JPMorgan Chase’s reputation
or lead to higher operational costs, thereby reducing JPMorgan
Chase’s profitability, or result in collateral consequences. In
addition, the extent of JPMorgan Chase’s exposure to legal and
regulatory matters can be unpredictable and could, in some
cases, exceed the amount of reserves that JPMorgan Chase has
established for those matters.
Item 1B. Unresolved Staf f Comments.
None.
28  
Item 2. Properties.
JPMorgan Chase’s headquarters is located in New York City at
383 Madison Avenue, a 47-story office building that it owns.
The Firm is demolishing its former headquarters at 270 Park
Avenue in New York City and is building a new headquarters
on the same site.
The Firm owned or leased facilities in the following locations
at December 31, 2019.
December 31, 2019
(in millions)Approximate
square footage
United States(a)
New York City, New York
383 Madison Avenue, New York, New York1.1
All other New York City locations8.3
Total New York City, New York9.4
Other U.S. locations
Columbus/Westerville, Ohio3.7
Chicago, Illinois2.8
Phoenix/Tempe, Arizona2.5
Wilmington/Newark, Delaware2.2
Houston, Texas1.9
Jersey City, New Jersey1.7
Dallas/Plano, Texas1.6
All other U.S. locations34.5
Total United States60.3
Europe, the Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”)
25 Bank Street, London, U.K.1.4
All other U.K. locations2.9
All other EMEA locations1.4
Total EMEA5.7
Asia-Pacific, Latin America and Canada
India3.8
All other locations4.0
Total Asia-Pacific, Latin America and Canada7.8
Total73.8
(a)At December 31, 2019, the Firm owned or leased 4,976 retail branches in
38 states and Washington D.C.
The premises and facilities occupied by JPMorgan Chase are
used across all of the Firm’s business segments and for
corporate purposes. JPMorgan Chase continues to evaluate its
current and projected space requirements and may determine
from time to time that certain of its properties (including the
premises and facilities noted above) are no longer necessary
for its operations. There is no assurance that the Firm will be
able to dispose of any such excess properties, premises, or
facilities or that it will not incur costs in connection with such
dispositions. Such disposition costs may be material to the
Firm’s results of operations in a given period. Refer to the
Consolidated Results of Operations on pages 48–51 for
information on occupancy expense. Item 3. Legal Proceedings.
Refer to Note 30 for a description of the Firm’s material legal
proceedings.
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.
Not applicable.
 29
Part II
Item 5. Market for Registrant’ s Common Equity ,
Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities.
Market for registrant’s common equity
JPMorgan Chase’s common stock is listed and traded on the
New York Stock Exchange. Refer to “Five-year stock
performance,” on page 41 for a comparison of the cumulative
total return for JPMorgan Chase common stock with the
comparable total return of the S&P 500 Index, the KBW Bank
Index and the S&P Financial Index over the five-year period
ended December 31, 2019. 
Refer to Capital actions in the Capital Risk Management
section of Management’s discussion and analysis on pages 90–
91 for information on the common dividend payout ratio.
Refer to Note 21 and Note 26 for a discussion of restrictions
on dividend payments. On January 31, 2020, there were
195,467 holders of record of JPMorgan Chase common stock.
Refer to Part III, Item 12 on page 33 for information regarding
securities authorized for issuance under the Firm’s employee
share-based incentive plans.
Repurchases under the common equity repurchase
program
Refer to Capital actions in the Capital Risk Management
section of Management’s discussion and analysis on pages 90–
91 for information regarding repurchases under the Firm’s
common equity repurchase program.
Shares repurchased pursuant to the common equity repurchase program during 2019 were as follows.
Year ended December 31, 2019  Total number of
shares of
common stock
repurchased Average price
paid per
share of
common
stock(a) Aggregate
purchase price of
common stock
repurchases (in
millions)(a) Dollar value
of remaining
authorized
repurchase
(in millions)(a)
First quarter  49,534,646 $ 102.78 $ 5,091 $ 5,290
Second quarter  47,434,255 109.83 5,210 80(b) 
Third quarter  62,011,400 112.07 6,949 22,451
October  19,728,145 118.30 2,334 20,116
November  17,489,713 129.27 2,261 17,856
December  16,777,026 135.65 2,276 15,580(c) 
Fourth quarter  53,994,884 127.24 6,871 15,580(c) 
Year-to-date  212,975,185 $ 113.26 $ 24,121 $ 15,580(c) 
(a)Excludes commissions cost.
(b)The $80 million unused portion under the prior Board authorization was canceled when the $29.4 billion repurchase program was authorized by the Board of
Directors on June 27, 2019.
(c)Represents the amount remaining under the $29.4 billion repurchase program.
Item 6. Selected Financial Data.
Refer to “Five-year summary of consolidated financial
highlights (unaudited)” on page 40 for five-year selected
financial data.
Item 7. Management’ s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition
and results of operations, entitled “Management’s discussion
and analysis,” appears on pages 42–141. Such information
should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial
Statements and Notes thereto, which appear on pages 147–286. 
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk.
Refer to the Market Risk Management section of
Management’s discussion and analysis on pages 119–126 for a
discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about
market risk.
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data.
The Consolidated Financial Statements, together with the
Notes thereto and the report thereon dated February 25, 2020,
of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the Firm’s independent
registered public accounting firm, appear on pages 143–286.
Supplementary financial data for each quarter within the two
years ended December 31, 2019, are included on page 287 in
the table entitled “Selected quarterly financial data
(unaudited).” Also included is a “Glossary of Terms and
Acronyms’’ on pages 293–299.
30  
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With
Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure.
None.
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.
The internal control framework promulgated by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(“COSO”), “Internal Control — Integrated Framework”
(“COSO 2013”), provides guidance for designing,
implementing and conducting internal control and assessing its
effectiveness. The Firm used the COSO 2013 framework to
assess the effectiveness of the Firm’s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2019. Refer to
“Management’s report on internal control over financial
reporting” on page 142.
As of the end of the period covered by this report, an
evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the
participation of the Firm’s management, including its
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and its Chief Financial
Officer, of the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934). Based on that evaluation, the
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial
Officer concluded that these disclosure controls and
procedures were effective. Refer to Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 for
the Certifications furnished by the Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, respectively.
The Firm is committed to maintaining high standards of
internal control over financial reporting. Nevertheless, because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. In addition,
in a firm as large and complex as JPMorgan Chase, lapses or
deficiencies in internal controls may occur from time to time,
and there can be no assurance that any such deficiencies will
not result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in
internal control in the future and collateral consequences
therefrom. Refer to “Management’s report on internal control
over financial reporting” on page 142 for further information.
There was no change in the Firm’s internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934) that occurred during the
three months ended December 31, 2019, that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Firm’s
internal control over financial reporting. Item 9B. Other Information.
None.
 31
Part III
Item 10. Directors, Executive Of ficers and Corporate Governance.
Executive officers of the registrant
 Age
Name (at December 31, 2019)Positions and of fices
James Dimon 63 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Of ficer; he had been President from July
2004 until January 2018.
Ashley Bacon 50 Chief Risk Of ficer since June 2013.
Lori A. Beer 52 Chief Information Of ficer since September 2017, prior to which she had been Chief
Information Of ficer of the Corporate & Investment Bank since June 2016. She was
Global Head of Banking Technology from January 2014 until May 2016. Prior to joining
JPMor gan Chase in 2014, she was Executive Vice President of Specialty Businesses and
Information Technology for Anthem, Inc.
Mary Callahan Erdoes 52 Chief Executive Of ficer of Asset & Wealth Management since September 2009.
Stacey Friedman 51 General Counsel since January 2016, prior to which she was Deputy General Counsel
since July 2015 and General Counsel for the Corporate & Investment Bank since August
2012.
Marianne Lake 50 Chief Executive Of ficer of Consumer Lending and Card Services since May 2019, prior
to which she had been Chief Financial Of ficer since January 2013.
Robin Leopold 55 Head of Human Resources since January 2018, prior to which she had been Head of
Human Resources for the Corporate & Investment Bank since August 2012.
Douglas B. Petno 54 Chief Executive Of ficer of Commercial Banking since January 2012.
Jennifer Piepszak 49 Chief Financial Of ficer since May 2019, prior to which she had been the Chief Executive
Officer for Card Services since 2017. She was Chief Executive Of ficer of Business
Banking from 2015 to 2017.
Daniel E. Pinto 57 Co-President and Co-Chief Operating Of ficer since January 2018, Chief Executive
Officer of the Corporate & Investment Bank since March 2014, and Chief Executive
Officer of Europe, the Middle East and Africa since June 201 1. He had been Co-Chief
Executive Of ficer of the Corporate & Investment Bank from July 2012 until March 2014.
Peter Scher
  58 Head of Corporate Responsibility since 201 1 and Chairman of the Mid-Atlantic Region
since 2015.
Gordon A. Smith 61 Co-President and Co-Chief Operating Of ficer since January 2018, and Chief Executive
Officer of Consumer & Community Banking since December 2012.
Unless otherwise noted, during the five fiscal years ended December 31, 2019, all of JPMorgan Chase’s above-named executive officers have continuously held
senior-level positions with JPMorgan Chase. There are no family relationships among the foregoing executive officers. Information to be provided in Items 10, 11,
12, 13 and 14 of the Form 10-K and not otherwise included herein is incorporated by reference to the Firm’s Definitive Proxy Statement for its 2020 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 19, 2020, which will be filed with the SEC within 120 days of the end of the Firm’s fiscal year ended December 31,
2019.
32  
Item 1 1. Executive Compensation.
Refer to Item 10. 
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters.
Refer to Item 10 for security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management.
The following table sets forth the total number of shares available for issuance under JPMorgan Chase’s employee share-based
incentive plans (including shares available for issuance to non-employee directors). The Firm is not authorized to grant share-based
incentive awards to non-employees, other than to non-employee directors.
December 31, 2019Number of shares to be
issued upon exercise of
outstanding options/stock
appreciation rights  Weighted-average
exercise price of
outstanding
options/stock appreciation
rights  Number of shares
remaining available for
future issuance under
stock incentive plans
Plan category       
Employee share-based incentive plans approved by shareholders 5,527,331 (a)  $41.36   74,945,900 (b) 
Total 5,527,331   $41.36   74,945,900
(a)Does not include restricted stock units or performance stock units granted under the shareholder-approved Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”), as amended and
restated effective May 15, 2018. Refer to Note 9 for further discussion.
(b)Represents shares available for future issuance under the shareholder-approved LTIP.
All shares available for future issuance will be issued under the shareholder-approved LTIP. Refer to Note 9 for further discussion.
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions, and Director Independence.
Refer to Item 10.
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services.
Refer to Item 10.
 33
Part IV
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules.
1  Financial statements
  The Consolidated Financial Statements, the Notes
thereto and the report of the Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm thereon listed
in Item 8 are set forth commencing on page 143.
2  Financial statement schedules
3  Exhibits
3.1
 Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
JPMorgan Chase & Co., effective April 5, 2006
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed April 7, 2006).
3.2
 Amendment to the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation of JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
effective June 7, 2013 (incorporated by reference
to Appendix F to the Proxy Statement on
Schedule 14A of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File
No. 1-5805) filed April 10, 2013).
3.3
 Certificate of Designations for Fixed-to-Floating
Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed April 24, 2008).
3.4
 Certificate of Designations for Fixed-to-Floating
Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series Q
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed April 23, 2013).
3.5
 Certificate of Designations for Fixed-to-Floating
Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series R
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed July 29, 2013).
3.6
 Certificate of Designations for Fixed-to-Floating
Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series S
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed January 22, 2014).
3.7
 Certificate of Designations for Fixed-to-Floating
Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series U
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed on March 10,
2014). 
3.8
 Certificate of Designations for Fixed-to-Floating
Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series V
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed on June 9, 2014).
3.9
 Certificate of Designations for Fixed-to-Floating
Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series X
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed on September 23,
2014).
3.10
 Certificate of Designations for 6.125% Non-
Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series Y
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed February 17, 2015).
3.11
 Certificate of Designations for Fixed-to-Floating
Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series Z
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed April 21, 2015).
3.12
 Certificate of Designations for 6.10% Non-
Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series AA
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed June 4, 2015).
3.13
 Certificate of Designations for 6.15% Non-
Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series BB
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed July 29, 2015).
3.14
 Certificate of Designations for Fixed-to-Floating
Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series CC
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed October 20, 2017).
3.15
 Certificate of Designations for 5.75% Non-
Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series DD
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed September 21,
2018).
3.16
 Certificate of Designations for 6.00% Non-
Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series EE
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed January 24, 2019).
3.17
 Certificate of Designations for Fixed-to-Floating
Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series FF
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed July 31, 2019).
34  
3.18
 Certificate of Designations for 4.75% Non-
Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series GG
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed November 7, 2019).
3.19
 Certificate of Designations for Fixed-to-Floating
Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series HH
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed January 23, 2020).
3.20
 By-laws of JPMorgan Chase & Co., as amended,
effective January 30, 2018 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on
Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-
5805) filed January 30, 2018).
4.1(a)
 Indenture, dated as of October 21, 2010, between
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank Trust
Company Americas, as Trustee (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on
Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No.1-
5805) filed October 21, 2010).
4.1(b)
 First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January
13, 2017, between JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as
Trustee, to the Indenture, dated as of October 21,
2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
the Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed January 13,
2017).
4.2(a)
 Subordinated Indenture, dated as of March 14,
2014, between JPMorgan Chase & Co. and U.S.
Bank Trust National Association, as Trustee
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (File No.1-5805) filed March 14, 2014).
4.2(b)
 First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January
13, 2017, between JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as Trustee,
to the Subordinated Indenture, dated as of March
14, 2014 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2
to the Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed January 13,
2017).
4.3(a)
 Indenture, dated as of May 25, 2001, between
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bankers Trust
Company (succeeded by Deutsche Bank Trust
Company Americas), as Trustee (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4(a)(1) to the Registration
Statement on Form S-3 of JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (File No. 333-52826) filed June 13, 2001). 
4.3(b)
 Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of
January 13, 2017, between JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Bankers Trust Company (succeeded by
Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas), as
Trustee, to the Indenture, dated as of May 25,
2001 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to
the Current Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed January 13,
2017).
4.4
 Indenture, dated as of February 19, 2016, among
JPMorgan Chase Financial Company LLC,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank Trust
Company Americas, as Trustee (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4(a)(7) to the Registration
Statement on Form S-3 of JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and JPMorgan Chase Financial Company
LLC (File No. 333-209682) filed February 24,
2016).
4.5
 Form of Deposit Agreement (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Registration
Statement on Form S-3 of JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (File No. 333-191692) filed October 11,
2013).
4.6
 Description of Securities of JPMorgan Chase &
Co. registered pursuant to Section 12 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.(a)(b)
Other instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term
debt securities of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries
are omitted pursuant to Section (b)(4)(iii)(A) of Item 601 of
Regulation S-K. JPMorgan Chase & Co. agrees to furnish
copies of these instruments to the SEC upon request.
10.1
 Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee
Directors of JPMorgan Chase & Co., as amended
and restated July 2001 and as of December 31,
2004 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
the Annual Report on Form 10-K of JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) for the year ended
December 31, 2007).(a)
10.2
 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-
Employee Directors of JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
effective as of January 1, 2005 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Annual Report on
Form 10-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File
No. 1-5805) for the year ended December 31,
2007).(a)
10.3
 2005 Deferred Compensation Program of
JPMorgan Chase & Co., restated effective as of
December 31, 2008 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.4 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K
of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) for
the year ended December 31, 2008).(a)
10.4
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. Amended and Restated
Long-Term Incentive Plan, effective May 15,
2018 (incorporated by reference to Appendix B of
the Schedule 14A of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File
No. 1-5805) filed April 5, 2018).(a)
 35
Part IV
10.5
 Key Executive Performance Plan of JPMorgan
Chase & Co., as amended and restated effective
January 1, 2014 (incorporated by reference to
Appendix G of the Schedule 14A of JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed April 10,
2013).(a)
10.6
 Excess Retirement Plan of JPMorgan Chase &
Co., restated and amended as of December 31,
2008, as amended (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.7 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K
of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) for
the year ended December 31, 2009).(a)
10.7
 Executive Retirement Plan of JPMorgan Chase &
Co., as amended and restated December 31, 2008
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the
Annual Report on Form 10-K of JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (File No. 1-5805) for the year ended
December 31, 2008).(a)
10.8
 Bank One Corporation Supplemental Savings and
Investment Plan, as amended and restated
effective December 31, 2008 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the Annual Report
on Form 10-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File
No. 1-5805) for the year ended December 31,
2008).(a)
10.9
 Form of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Long-Term
Incentive Plan Terms and Conditions for stock
appreciation rights, dated as of January 20, 2009
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the
Annual Report on Form 10-K of JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (File No. 1-5805) for the year ended
December 31, 2008).(a)
10.10
 Form of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Long-Term
Incentive Plan Terms and Conditions for
Operating Committee member stock appreciation
rights, dated as of February 3, 2010 (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to the Annual
Report on Form 10-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(File No. 1-5805) for the year ended December
31, 2009).(a)
10.11
 Forms of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Long-Term
Incentive Plan Terms and Conditions for stock
appreciation rights and restricted stock units,
dated as of January 18, 2012 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.25 to the Annual Report
on Form 10-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File
No. 1-5805) for the year ended December 31,
2011).(a)
10.12
 Forms of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Long-Term
Incentive Plan Terms and Conditions for stock
appreciation rights and restricted stock units for
Operating Committee members, dated as of
January 17, 2013 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.23 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K
of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) for
the year ended December 31, 2012).(a) 
10.13
 Forms of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Long-Term
Incentive Plan Terms and Conditions for
performance share units and restricted stock units
for Operating Committee members (U.S. and
U.K.), dated as of January 17, 2017 (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to the Annual
Report on Form 10-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(File No. 1-5805) for the year ended December
31, 2016).(a)
10.14
 Forms of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Long-Term
Incentive Plan Terms and Conditions for
performance share units and restricted stock units
for Operating Committee members (U.S. and
U.K.), dated as of January 16, 2018.(a)
10.15
 Forms of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Long-Term
Incentive Plan Terms and Conditions for
restricted stock units for Operating Committee
members (U.S. and U.K.), dated as of January 15,
2019.(a)
10.16
 Form of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Long-Term
Incentive Plan Terms and Conditions of
Performance Share Unit Award Operating
Committee (U.S.) (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K
of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed
March 15, 2019).(a)
10.17
 Form of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Long-Term
Incentive Plan Terms and Conditions of
Performance Share Unit Award Operating
Committee (U.K.) (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K
of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed
March 15, 2019).(a)
10.18
 Forms of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Long-Term
Incentive Plan Terms and Conditions for
restricted stock units and performance share unit
awards for Operating Committee members (U.S.
and U.K.), dated as of January 21, 2020.(a)(b)
10.19
 Form of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Terms and
Conditions of Fixed Allowance (UK)
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) for the quarter
ended June 30, 2014).(a)
10.20
 Form of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Performance-
Based Incentive Compensation Plan, effective as
of January 1, 2006, as amended (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.27 to the Annual Report
on Form 10-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File
No. 1-5805) for the year ended December 31,
2009).(a)
10.21
 Employee Stock Purchase Plan of JPMorgan
Chase & Co., as amended and restated effective
as of January 1, 2019 (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-
5805) for the quarter ended September 30, 2019).
36  
21  List of subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase & Co.(b)
22
 Annual Report on Form 11-K of The JPMorgan
Chase 401(k) Savings Plan for the year ended
December 31, 2019 (to be filed pursuant to
Rule 15d-21 under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934).
23
 Consent of independent registered public
accounting firm.(b)
31.1  Certification.(b)
31.2  Certification.(b)
32
 Certification pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.(c)
  
101.INS
 The instance document does not appear in the
interactive data file because its XBRL tags are
embedded within the Inline XBRL document.(d)
101.SCH
 XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema
Document.(b)
101.CAL
 XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation
Linkbase Document.(b)
101.DEF
 XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase
Document.(b)
101.LAB
 XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase
Document.(b)
101.PRE
 XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation
Linkbase Document.(b)
104
 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded
within the Inline XBRL document and included in
Exhibit 101).
(a)This exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or
arrangement.
(b)Filed herewith.
(c)Furnished herewith. This exhibit shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes
of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject
to the liability of that Section. Such exhibit shall not be deemed
incorporated into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(d)Pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T, includes the following financial
information included in the Firm’s Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2019, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting
Language) interactive data files: (i) the Consolidated statements of income
for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, (ii) the
Consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the years ended
December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, (iii) the Consolidated balance sheets
as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, (iv) the Consolidated statements of
changes in stockholders’ equity for the years ended December 31, 2019,
2018 and 2017, (v) the Consolidated statements of cash flows for the years
ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, and (vi) the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.
 37
page 38 not used
38  
Table of contents
Financial:   
40
 Five-Year Summary of Consolidated Financial
Highlights Audited financial statements:
41
 Five-Year Stock Performance 142
 Management’s Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting
Management’s discussion and analysis:143
 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm
42 Introduction 146 Consolidated Financial Statements
43 Executive Overview 151 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
48 Consolidated Results of Operations  
52 Consolidated Balance Sheets and Cash Flows Analysis   
55
 Off–Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Cash
Obligations   
57
 Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm’s Use of
Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Key Performance
Measures Supplementary information:
60 Business Segment Results 287 Selected quarterly financial data (unaudited)
79
 Firmwide Risk Management 288–
292 Distribution of assets, liabilities and stockholders’
equity; interest rates and interest differentials
     
84 Strategic Risk Management 293 Glossary of Terms and Acronyms
85 Capital Risk Management   
93 Liquidity Risk Management   
100 Credit and Investment Risk Management   
119 Market Risk Management   
127 Country Risk Management   
129 Operational Risk Management   
136 Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm   
139 Accounting and Reporting Developments   
141 Forward-Looking Statements   
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 39
Financial
FIVE-YEAR SUMMAR Y OF CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL  HIGHLIGHTS (unaudited)
As of or for the year ended December 31,
(in millions, except per share, ratio, headcount data and where otherwise noted)   
 2019 2018 2017  2016 2015
Selected income statement data    
Total net revenue  $ 115,627 $ 109,029$ 100,705 $ 96,569$ 94,440
Total noninterest expense  65,497 63,394 59,515 56,672 59,911
Pre-provision profit  50,130 45,635 41,190 39,897 34,529
Provision for credit losses  5,585 4,871 5,290 5,361 3,827
Income before income tax expense  44,545 40,764 35,900 34,536 30,702
Income tax expense  8,114 8,290 11,459 9,803 6,260
Net income  $ 36,431 $ 32,474$ 24,441 (f) $ 24,733$ 24,442
Earnings per share data    
Net income: Basic  $ 10.75 $ 9.04$ 6.35 $ 6.24$ 6.05
              Diluted  10.72 9.00 6.31 6.19 6.00
Average shares: Basic  3,221.5 3,396.4 3,551.6 3,658.8 3,741.2
              Diluted  3,230.4 3,414.0 3,576.8 3,690.0 3,773.6
Market and per common share data    
Market capitalization  $ 429,913 $ 319,780$ 366,301 $ 307,295$ 241,899
Common shares at period-end  3,084.0 3,275.8 3,425.3 3,561.2 3,663.5
Book value per share  75.98 70.35 67.04 64.06 60.46
Tangible book value per share (“TBVPS”)(a)  60.98 56.33 53.56 51.44 48.13
Cash dividends declared per share  3.40 2.72 2.12 1.88 1.72
Selected ratios and metrics    
Return on common equity (“ROE”)  15% 13% 10% 10% 11%
Return on tangible common equity (“ROTCE”)(a)  19 17 12 13 13
Return on assets (“ROA”)  1.33 1.24 0.96 1.00 0.99
Overhead ratio  57 58 59 59 63
Loans-to-deposits ratio  61 67 64 65 65
Liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”) (average)(b)  116 113 119 N/A N/A
Common equity tier 1 (“CET1”) capital ratio(c)  12.4 12.0 12.2 12.3 11.8
Tier 1 capital ratio(c)  14.1 13.7 13.9 14.0 13.5
Total capital ratio(c)  16.0 15.5 15.9 15.5 15.1
Tier 1 leverage ratio(c)  7.9 8.1 8.3 8.4 8.5
Supplementary leverage ratio (“SLR”)(d)  6.3% 6.4% 6.5% 6.5% 6.5%
Selected balance sheet data (period-end)    
Trading assets  $ 411,103 $ 413,714$ 381,844 $ 372,130$ 343,839
Investment securities  398,239 261,828 249,958 289,059 290,827
Loans  959,769 984,554 930,697 894,765 837,299
Core Loans  916,144 931,856 863,683 806,152 732,093
Average core loans  906,606 885,221 829,558 769,385 670,757
Total assets  2,687,379 2,622,532 2,533,600 2,490,972 2,351,698
Deposits  1,562,431 1,470,666 1,443,982 1,375,179 1,279,715
Long-term debt  291,498 282,031 284,080 295,245 288,651
Common stockholders’ equity  234,337 230,447 229,625 228,122 221,505
Total stockholders’ equity  261,330 256,515 255,693 254,190 247,573
Headcount  256,981 256,105 252,539 243,355 234,598
Credit quality metrics    
Allowance for credit losses  $ 14,314 $ 14,500$ 14,672 $ 14,854$ 14,341
Allowance for loan losses to total retained loans  1.39% 1.39% 1.47% 1.55% 1.63%
Allowance for loan losses to retained loans excluding purchased credit-impaired loans(e)  1.31 1.23 1.27 1.34 1.37
Nonperforming assets  $ 4,497 $ 5,190$ 6,426 $ 7,535$ 7,034
Net charge-offs  5,629 4,856 5,387 4,692 4,086
Net charge-off rate  0.60% 0.52% 0.60%(g) 0.54% 0.52%
(a)TBVPS and ROTCE are each non-GAAP financial measures. Refer to Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm’s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Key
Performance Measures on pages 57–59 for a further discussion of these measures.
(b)For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, the percentage represents the Firm’s reported average LCR for the three months ended December 31, 2019,
2018 and 2017, which became effective April 1, 2017. Refer to Liquidity Risk Management on pages 93–98 for additional information on the Firm’s LCR.
(c)The Basel III capital rules became fully phased-in effective January 1, 2019. Prior to this date, the required capital measures were subject to the transitional rules
which, as of December 31, 2018, were the same on a fully phased-in and transitional basis. Refer to Capital Risk Management on pages 85–92 for additional
information on these measures.
(d)The Basel III rule for the SLR became fully phased-in effective January 1, 2018. Prior to this date, the SLR was calculated under the transitional rules. Refer to
Capital Risk Management on pages 85–92 for additional information on these measures.
(e)This ratio is a non-GAAP financial measure as it excludes the impact of residential real estate purchased credit-impaired (“PCI”) loans. Refer to Explanation and
Reconciliation of the Firm’s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Key Performance Measures on pages 57–59, and the Allowance for credit losses on pages
116–117 for further discussion of this measure.
(f)In December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) was signed into law. The Firm’s results for the year ended December 31, 2017 included a $2.4 billion
decrease to net income as a result of the enactment of the TCJA. Refer to Note 25 for additional information related to the impact of the TCJA.
(g)Excluding net charge-offs of $467 million related to the student loan portfolio sale, the net charge-off rate for the year ended December 31, 2017 would have been
0.55%.
40 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
FIVE-YEAR ST OCK PERFORMANCE
The following table and graph compare the five-year cumulative total return for JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“JPMorgan Chase” or the
“Firm”) common stock with the cumulative return of the S&P 500 Index, the KBW Bank Index and the S&P Financials Index. The
S&P 500 Index is a commonly referenced equity benchmark in the United States of America (“U.S.”), consisting of leading
companies from different economic sectors. The KBW Bank Index seeks to reflect the performance of banks and thrifts that are
publicly traded in the U.S. and is composed of leading national money center and regional banks and thrifts. The S&P Financials
Index is an index of financial companies, all of which are components of the S&P 500. The Firm is a component of all three
industry indices.
The following table and graph assume simultaneous investments of $100 on December 31, 2014, in JPMorgan Chase common
stock and in each of the above indices. The comparison assumes that all dividends were reinvested.
December 31,
(in dollars) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
JPMorgan Chase $100.00 $108.37 $145.82 $184.81 $172.52 $254.07
KBW Bank Index 100.00 100.48 129.13 153.14 126.02 171.54
S&P Financials Index 100.00 98.44 120.38 147.58 128.33 169.52
S&P 500 Index 100.00 101.37 113.49 138.26 132.19 173.80
December 31,
(in dollars)
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 41
Management’ s discussion and analysis
The following is Management’s discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations (“MD&A”) of
JPMorgan Chase for the year ended December 31, 2019. The MD&A is included in both JPMorgan Chase’s Annual Report for the
year ended December 31, 2019 (“Annual Report”) and its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019
(“2019 Form 10-K”) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Refer to the Glossary of terms and acronyms on
pages 293–299 for definitions of terms and acronyms used throughout the Annual Report and the 2019 Form 10-K.
The MD&A contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995. These statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase’s management and are subject to
significant risks and uncertainties. Refer to Forward-looking Statements on page 141) and Part 1, Item 1A: Risk factors in the 2019
Form 10-K on pages 6–28 for a discussion of certain of those risks and uncertainties and the factors that could cause JPMorgan
Chase’s actual results to differ materially because of those risks and uncertainties.
INTRODUCTION
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM), a financial holding
company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a
leading global financial services firm and one of the largest
banking institutions in the United States of America (“U.S.”),
with operations worldwide; JPMorgan Chase had $2.7 trillion
in assets and $261.3 billion in stockholders’ equity as of
December 31, 2019. The Firm is a leader in investment
banking, financial services for consumers and small
businesses, commercial banking, financial transaction
processing and asset management. Under the J.P. Morgan and
Chase brands, the Firm serves millions of customers in the
U.S. and globally many of the world’s most prominent
corporate, institutional and government clients.
JPMorgan Chase’s principal bank subsidiary is JPMorgan
Chase Bank, National Association (“JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A.”), a national banking association with U.S. branches in
38 states and Washington, D.C. as of December 31, 2019.
JPMorgan Chase’s principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P. Morgan
Securities LLC (“J.P. Morgan Securities”), a U.S. broker-
dealer. The bank and non-bank subsidiaries of JPMorgan
Chase operate nationally as well as through overseas branches
and subsidiaries, representative offices and subsidiary foreign
banks. The Firm’s principal operating subsidiary outside the
U.S. is J.P. Morgan Securities plc, a U.K.-based subsidiary of
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. For management reporting purposes, the Firm’s activities are
organized into four major reportable business segments, as
well as a Corporate segment. The Firm’s consumer business is
the Consumer & Community Banking (“CCB”) segment. The
Firm’s wholesale business segments are Corporate &
Investment Bank (“CIB”), Commercial Banking (“CB”), and
Asset & Wealth Management (“AWM”). Refer to Business
Segment Results on pages 60–78, and Note 32 for a
description of the Firm’s business segments, and the products
and services they provide to their respective client bases.
42 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
EXECUTIVE OVER VIEW
This executive overview of the MD&A highlights selected
information and does not contain all of the information that is
important to readers of this 2019 Form 10-K. For a complete
description of the trends and uncertainties, as well as the risks
and critical accounting estimates affecting the Firm and its
various lines of business (“LOBs”), this 2019 Form 10-K
should be read in its entirety.
Financial performance of JPMorgan Chase  
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except per share
data and ratios)  
2019 2018  Change
Selected income statement
data   
Total net revenue $ 115,627$ 109,029 6%
Total noninterest expense 65,497 63,394 3
Pre-provision profit 50,130 45,635 10
Provision for credit losses 5,585 4,871 15
Net income 36,431 32,474 12
Diluted earnings per share 10.72 9.00 19
Selected ratios and metrics   
Return on common equity 15% 13% 
Return on tangible common
equity 19 17 
Book value per share $ 75.98 $ 70.35 8
Tangible book value per share 60.98 56.33 8
Capital ratios(a)   
CET1 12.4% 12.0% 
Tier 1 capital 14.1 13.7 
Total capital 16.0 15.5 
(a)The Basel III capital rules became fully phased-in ef fective January 1, 2019.
Prior to this date, the required capital measures were subject to the transitional
rules which, as of December 31, 2018, were the same on a fully phased-in and
transitional basis. Refer to Capital Risk Management on pages 85–92  for
additional information on these measures.
Comparisons noted in the sections below are for the full year
of 2019 versus the full year of 2018, unless otherwise
specified.
Firmwide overview
JPMorgan Chase reported strong results for 2019, with record
revenue, net income and EPS of $115.6 billion, $36.4 billion
and $10.72 per share, respectively. The Firm reported ROE of
15% and ROTCE of 19%.
•Net income was $36.4 billion, up 12%.
•Total net revenue increased 6%. Net interest income was
$57.2 billion, up 4%, driven by continued balance sheet
growth and mix as well as higher average short-term rates,
partially offset by higher deposit pay rates. Noninterest
revenue was $58.4 billion, up 8%, driven by growth across
CCB as well as higher Markets revenue in CIB. Noninterest
revenue included approximately $500 million of gains on the
sales of certain mortgage loans in Home Lending. •Noninterest expense was $65.5 billion, up 3%, driven by
continued investments across the businesses including
employees, technology, real estate, and marketing, as well as
higher volume- and revenue-related expenses, including
depreciation expense on auto lease assets, partially offset by
lower FDIC charges.
•Income tax expense included $1.1 billion of tax benefits
related to the resolution of certain tax audits.
•The provision for credit losses was $5.6 billion, up $714
million, reflecting increases in both wholesale and
consumer. The increase in the wholesale provision reflects
additions to the allowance for credit losses in the current
year on select client downgrades. The prior year reflected a
benefit related to a single name in the Oil & Gas portfolio
and higher recoveries. The increase in the consumer
provision reflects higher net charge-offs and additions to the
allowance for loan losses in Card, predominantly offset by a
higher reduction in the allowance for loan losses in Home
Lending. The prior year also benefited from larger
recoveries in Home Lending on loan sales.
•The total allowance for credit losses was $14.3 billion at
December 31, 2019, and the Firm had a loan loss coverage
ratio of 1.39%, flat compared with the prior year; excluding
the PCI portfolio, the equivalent ratio was 1.31% compared
with 1.23% in the prior year. The Firm’s nonperforming
assets totaled $4.5 billion at December 31, 2019, a decrease
from $5.2 billion in the prior year, primarily reflecting
paydowns in the wholesale portfolio and improved credit
performance in the consumer portfolio.
•Firmwide average total loans of $955 billion were up 1%, or
up 3% excluding the impact of certain loan sales in Home
Lending.
Selected capital-related metrics
•The Firm’s CET1 capital was $188 billion, and the
Standardized and Advanced CET1 ratios were 12.4% and
13.4%, respectively.
•The Firm’s SLR was 6.3%.
•The Firm continued to grow tangible book value per share
(“TBVPS”), ending 2019 at $60.98, up 8%.
ROTCE and TBVPS are non-GAAP financial measures. Refer
to Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm’s Use of Non-
GAAP Financial Measures and Key Performance Measures on
pages 57–59, and Capital Risk Management on pages 85–92
for a further discussion of each of these measures.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 43
Management’ s discussion and analysis
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•Business segment highlights
Selected business metrics for each of the Firm’s four LOBs are
presented below for the full year of 2019.
CCB
ROE
 31%
 Record revenue of $55.9 billion, up 7%;
record net income of $16.6 billion, up 12%
Average loans down 3%; Home Lending loans
down 9% impacted by loan sales; Card loans up
7%
Client investment assets up 27%; average
deposits up 3%
Credit card sales volume up 10% and
merchant processing volume up 11%
CIB
ROE
 14%
 Record revenue of $38.3 billion, up 5%;
record net income of $11.9 billion, up 1%
Maintained #1 ranking for Global Investment
Banking fees with 9.0% wallet share, up 40 basis
points (“bps”)
Investment Banking revenue of $7.2 billion,
up 3%
Total Markets revenue of $20.9 billion, up 7%
CB
ROE
 17% Record Investment Banking revenue of $2.7
billion, up 10%
Average loans and deposits each up 1%
Strong credit quality with NCOs of 8 bps
AWM
ROE
 26% Record revenue of $14.3 billion, up 2%
Average loans up 8%; average deposits up 2%
Assets under management (“AUM”) of $2.4
trillion, up 19%
Refer to the Business Segment Results on pages 60–61 for a
detailed discussion of results by business segment. Credit provided and capital raised
JPMorgan Chase continues to support consumers, businesses
and communities around the globe. The Firm provided new
and renewed credit and raised capital for wholesale and
consumer clients during 2019, consisting of:
$2.3
trillion Total credit provided and capital raised
$262
billionCredit for consumers
$33 billion Credit for U.S. small businesses
$860
billionCredit for corporations
$1.0
trillionCapital raised for corporate clients and non-
U.S. government entities
$79 billionCredit and capital raised for nonprofit and
U.S. government entities(a)
(a)Includes states, municipalities, hospitals and universities.
44 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Recent events
On February 25, 2020, JPMorgan Chase announced additional
steps in its initiatives to address climate change and further
promote sustainable development. This year, JPMorgan Chase
commits to facilitate $200 billion to advance the objectives of
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),
including $50 billion toward green initiatives.  The new
commitment is intended to address a broader set of challenges
in the developing world and developed countries where social
and economic development gaps persist. As part of this
commitment, the Firm had previously announced the creation
of the J.P. Morgan Development Finance Institution to expand
its financing activities for developing countries.
On December 18, 2019, JPMorgan Chase announced that the
China Securities Regulatory Commission has approved the
application of J.P. Morgan Securities (China) Company
Limited for a Securities and Futures Business Permit. This
approval allows J.P. Morgan’s majority-owned securities
company in China to commence operations.
On December 11, 2019, JPMorgan Chase announced certain
organizational changes to its U.S. Wealth Management
business. The Firm’s advisors across Chase Wealth
Management and J.P. Morgan Securities will become one
business unit – U.S. Wealth Management.
2020 outlook
These current expectations are forward-looking statements
within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based on the
current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase’s
management and are subject to significant risks and
uncertainties. Refer to Forward-Looking Statements on page
141, and the Risk Factors section on pages 6–28 of the Firm’s
2019 Form 10-K, for a further discussion of certain of those
risks and uncertainties and the other factors that could cause
JPMorgan Chase’s actual results to differ materially because
of those risks and uncertainties. There is no assurance that
actual results in 2019 will be in line with the outlook set forth
below, and the Firm does not undertake to update any
forward-looking statements. JPMorgan Chase’s outlook for 2020 should be viewed against
the backdrop of the global and U.S. economies, financial
markets activity, the geopolitical environment, the competitive
environment, client and customer activity levels, and
regulatory and legislative developments in the U.S. and other
countries where the Firm does business. Each of these factors
will affect the performance of the Firm and its LOBs. The Firm
will continue to make appropriate adjustments to its businesses
and operations in response to ongoing developments in the
business, economic, regulatory, and legal environments in
which it operates.
Firmwide full-year 2020
•Management expects full-year 2020 net interest income, on
a managed basis, to be approximately $57 billion, market
dependent, reflecting the impact of lower interest rates offset
by balance sheet growth and mix.
•The Firm continues to take a disciplined approach to
managing expenses, while investing for growth and
innovation. As a result, management expects Firmwide
adjusted expense for the full-year 2020 to be approximately
$67 billion.
•The Firm continues to experience charge-off rates at very
low levels, reflecting favorable credit trends across the
consumer and wholesale portfolios. Management expects
full-year 2020 net charge-offs to be just over $6 billion, an
increase from prior year, driven by Card on growth and mix.
•Management expects the full-year 2020 effective tax rate, on
a reported basis, to be approximately 20%, and
approximately 5 to 7 percentage points higher on a managed
basis.
First-quarter 2020
•Management expects first-quarter 2020 net interest income,
on a managed basis, to be approximately $14.2 billion,
market dependent.
•Firmwide adjusted expense for the first-quarter 2020 is
expected to be approximately $17 billion.
•The effective tax rate, on a reported basis, for the first
quarter of 2020 is expected to be approximately 17% largely
as a result of tax benefits related to the vesting of employee
share-based awards.
•Markets revenue for the first-quarter of 2020 is expected to
be higher when compared with the prior-year quarter by
mid-teens percentage points, depending on market
conditions.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 45
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Business Developments
Departure of the U.K. from the EU
The U.K.’s departure from the EU, which is commonly
referred to as “Brexit,” occurred on January 31, 2020.
Following this departure, the U.K. has entered a transition
period that is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2020. The
purpose of the transition period is to enable the U.K. and the
EU to negotiate the terms of their future relationship. The
transition period can be extended, but both sides need to agree
to extend it by July 1, 2020. It is not clear whether the terms of
the future relationship can be agreed before the end of 2020,
and so significant uncertainty remains about the relationship
between the U.K. and the EU after the end of the transition
period.
The Firm has a long-standing presence in the U.K., which
currently serves as the regional headquarters of the Firm’s
operations in over 30 countries across Europe, the Middle
East, and Africa (“EMEA”). In the region, the Firm serves
clients and customers across its business segments. The Firm
has approximately 17,000 employees in the U.K., of which
approximately two-thirds are in London, with operational and
technology support centers in locations such as Bournemouth,
Glasgow and Edinburgh.
In light of the ongoing uncertainty, the Firm continues to
execute the relevant elements of its Firmwide Brexit
Implementation program with the objective of being able to
continue delivering the Firm’s capabilities to its EU clients.
The program covers strategic implementation across all
impacted businesses and functions and includes an ongoing
assessment of implementation risks including political, legal
and regulatory risks and plans for addressing and mitigating
those risks under any scenario, including where the U.K. and
the EU fail to reach an agreement on their future relationship
by the end of 2020 and the transition period is not extended.
The principal operational risks associated with Brexit continue
to be the potential for disruption caused by insufficient
preparations by individual market participants or in the overall
market ecosystem, and risks related to potential disruptions of
connectivity among market participants. There continues to be
regulatory and legal uncertainty with respect to various matters
including contract continuity, access by market participants to
liquidity in certain products, such as products subject to
potentially conflicting U.K. and EU regulatory requirements in
relation to eligible trading venues, including certain cross-
border derivative contracts and equities that are listed on both
U.K. and EU exchanges, as well as ongoing access to central
banks. It is uncertain as to whether any of these issues will be
resolved in the negotiations, or whether any of the previous
temporary solutions will be available at the end of the
transition period to mitigate these risks. The Firm is focused on the following key areas to ensure
continuation of service to its EU clients: regulatory and legal
entity readiness; client readiness; and business and operational
readiness. Following are the significant updates.
Regulatory and legal entity readiness
The Firm’s legal entities in Germany, Luxembourg and Ireland
are now prepared and licensed to provide services to the Firm’s
EU clients, including a branch network covering locations such
as Paris, Madrid and Milan.
Client readiness
The agreements covering a significant proportion of the Firm’s
EU client activity have been re-documented to other EU legal
entities to help facilitate continuation of service. The Firm
continues to actively engage with clients that have not
completed re-documentation to ensure preparedness both in
terms of documentation and any operational changes that may
be required. The Firm may be negatively impacted by any
operational disruption stemming from delays of or lapses in
the readiness of other market participants or market
infrastructures.
Business and operational readiness
The Firm relocated certain employees during 2019 and added
specific employees to certain EU legal entities, where
appropriate, to support the level of client activity that has been
migrated. The Firm’s longer term staffing plan will develop in
accordance with the increasing level of activity in the EU
entities and alongside the future legal and regulatory
framework between the U.K. and EU. The Firm continues to
closely monitor legislative developments, and its
implementation plan allows for flexibility given the continued
uncertainties.
46 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
IBOR transition
As a result of the expected discontinuation of certain
unsecured benchmark interest rates, including the London
Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) and other Interbank
Offered Rates (“IBORs”) regulators and market participants in
various jurisdictions have been working to identify alternative
reference rates that are compliant with the International
Organization of Securities Commission’s standards for
transaction-based benchmarks. In the U.S., the Alternative
Reference Rates Committee (the “ARRC”), a group of market
and official sector participants, identified the Secured
Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) as its recommended
alternative benchmark rate. Other alternative reference rates
have been recommended in other jurisdictions. Industry
sources estimate that IBORs are referenced in approximately
$400 trillion of wholesale and consumer transactions globally
spanning a broad range of financial products and contracts.
The Firm has a significant number of IBOR-referenced
contracts, including derivatives, bilateral and syndicated loans,
securities, and debt and preferred stock issuances.
To manage the risks associated with the transition from
IBORs, JPMorgan Chase established a Firmwide LIBOR
Transition program in early 2018 that is overseen by the
Firmwide CFO and the CEO of the CIB. When assessing risks
associated with IBOR transition, the program monitors a
variety of scenarios, including disorderly transition,
measured/regulated transition considering volatility along the
SOFR curve and clearinghouse plans to change their discount
rates to alternative reference rates, and IBOR in continuity
beyond December 2021.
The Firm continues to monitor and facilitate the transition by
clients from IBOR-referencing products to products
referencing alternative reference rates. The Firm’s transition
efforts to date include:
•ongoing implementation of new fallback provisions that
provide for the determination of replacement rates for
LIBOR-linked syndicated loans, securitizations, floating rate
notes and bi-lateral business loans based on the
recommendations of the ARRC, and introducing SOFR as a
replacement benchmark rate for certain of these products;
•planning to adopt further fallback provisions recommended
by the ARRC, including for residential ARMs, in
conjunction with the adoption of these provisions by market
participants; and
•completing its first bilateral SOFR loan in the U.S. and
executing its first interest rate swap linked to the Euro short-
term rate in Europe. Market participants are continuing to work closely with the
public sector as part of National Working Groups (“NWGs”)
towards the common goal of facilitating an orderly transition
from IBORs. Current NWG efforts include the continued
development of cash and derivative markets referencing
alternative reference rates, as well as the development of
industry consensus for fallback language that would determine
the replacement rates to use in various IBOR-indexed contracts
when a particular IBOR ceases to be produced. The Firm is
monitoring and providing input in the development of the
IBOR Fallbacks Protocol of the International Swaps and
Derivatives Association (“ISDA”), which is expected to be
published in 2020, and is encouraging its clients to actively
participate in ISDA and industry consultations in order to
ensure the broadest possible industry engagement in and
understanding of IBOR transition. The Firm continues to
monitor the development of alternative reference rates in other
jurisdictions with NWGs.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) has
confirmed that it will issue an accounting standards update in
2020 providing optional expedients and exceptions for
applying generally accepted accounting principles to contracts
and hedge relationships affected by benchmark reform. The
International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) has made
amendments to IFRS hedge accounting requirements that
provide relief to market participants on the accounting
treatment of IBOR-linked products in the period leading up to
the expected cessation of IBORs and is also considering
further relief for the accounting impacts upon transition to an
alternative reference rate.
The U.S. Treasury Department has issued proposed regulations
that are intended to avoid adverse tax consequences in
connection with the transition from IBORs. Under the
proposed regulations, amendments to contracts meeting certain
requirements will not be treated as taxable for U.S. federal
income tax purposes.
The Firm continues to monitor the transition relief being
considered by the FASB, IASB and U.S. Treasury Department
regarding accounting and tax implications of reference rate
reform. The Firm also continues to develop and implement
plans to appropriately mitigate the risks associated with IBOR
discontinuation as identified alternative reference rates develop
and liquidity in these rates increases. The Firm will continue to
engage with regulators and clients as the transition from
IBORs progresses.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 47
Management’ s discussion and analysis
CONSOLIDA TED RESUL TS OF OPERA TIONS
This section provides a comparative discussion of JPMorgan
Chase’s Consolidated Results of Operations on a reported
basis for the two-year period ended December 31, 2019,
unless otherwise specified. Refer to Consolidated Results of
Operations on pages 48-51 of the Firm’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 (the “2018
Form 10-K”) for a discussion of the 2018 versus 2017 results.
Factors that relate primarily to a single business segment are
discussed in more detail within that business segment. Refer to
pages 136–138 for a discussion of the Critical Accounting
Estimates Used by the Firm that affect the Consolidated
Results of Operations.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Firm adopted several accounting
standards. Certain of the accounting standards were applied
retrospectively and, accordingly, prior period amounts were
revised. Refer to Note 1 for additional information.
Revenue   
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)  
2019 2018 2017
Investment banking fees $ 7,501 $ 7,550 $ 7,412
Principal transactions 14,018 12,059 11,347
Lending- and deposit-related fees 6,369 6,052 5,933
Asset management, administration
and commissions 17,165 17,118 16,287
Investment securities gains/(losses) 258 (395) (66)
Mortgage fees and related income 2,036 1,254 1,616
Card income 5,304 4,989 4,433
Other income (a) 5,731 5,343 3,646
Noninter est revenue 58,382 53,970 50,608
Net interest income 57,245 55,059 50,097
Total net r evenue $ 115,627 $ 109,029 $ 100,705
(a)Included operating lease income of $5.5 billion , $4.5 billion  and $3.6 billion
for the years ended December 31, 2019 , 2018  and 2017 , respectively .
2019 compared with 2018
Investment banking fees were relatively flat, reflecting in
CIB:
•higher debt underwriting fees driven by wallet share gains
and increased activity in investment-grade and high-yield
bonds,
offset by
•lower advisory fees driven by a decline in industry-wide fees
despite wallet share gains.
Refer to CIB segment results on pages 66-70 and Note 6 for
additional information.
Principal transactions revenue increased reflecting:
•higher revenue in CIB, which included a gain on the initial
public offering (“IPO”) of Tradeweb in the second quarter of
2019. Excluding this gain, the increase in CIB’s revenue was
driven by: –higher revenue in Fixed Income Markets, reflecting an
overall strong performance, primarily in agency mortgage
trading within Securitized Products; the increase in 2019
also reflected the impact of challenging market conditions
in Credit in the fourth quarter of 2018; and
–the favorable impact of tighter funding spreads on
derivatives in Credit Adjustments & Other.
The net increase in CIB was partially offset by
•lower revenue in AWM related to hedges on certain
investments. The impact of these hedges was more than
offset by higher valuation gains on the related investments
reflected in other income
Principal transactions revenue in Corporate was relatively flat,
reflecting the combined impact of losses on cash deployment
transactions in Treasury and CIO, which were more than offset
by the related net interest income earned on those transactions,
and lower net markdowns on certain legacy private equity
investments.
Principal transactions revenue in CIB may in certain cases
have offsets across other revenue lines, including net interest
income. The Firm assesses its CIB Markets business
performance on a total revenue basis.
Refer to CIB, AWM and Corporate segment results on pages
66-70, pages 74–76 and pages 77–78, respectively, and Note 6
for additional information.
Lending- and deposit-related fees increased primarily due to
higher deposit-related fees in CCB, reflecting growth in
customer accounts and transactions, and higher lending-related
commitment fees in the wholesale businesses.
Refer to CCB, CIB and CB segment results on pages 62–65,
pages 66-70 and pages 71–73, respectively, and Note 6 for
additional information.
Asset management, administration and commissions
revenue increased primarily due to higher asset management
fees from growth in client investment assets in CCB.
Refer to CCB and AWM segment results on pages 62–65 and
pages 74–76, respectively, and Note 6 for additional
information.
Investment securities gains/(losses) in both periods reflect
the impact of repositioning the investment securities portfolio.
Refer to Corporate segment results on pages 77–78 and Note
10 for additional information.
48 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Mortgage fees and related income increased driven by:
•higher net mortgage production revenue reflecting
approximately $500 million of gains on sales of certain
loans, as well as higher mortgage production volumes and
margins,
partially offset by
•lower net mortgage servicing revenue driven by lower
operating revenue reflecting faster prepayment speeds on
lower rates and the impact of reclassifying certain loans to
held-for-sale.
Refer to CCB segment results on pages 62–65, Note 6 and 15
for further information.
Card income increased as the prior year included an
adjustment of approximately $330 million to the credit card
rewards liability. Excluding this item, Card income was
relatively flat. Refer to CCB segment results on pages 62–65
and Note 6 for further information.
Other income increased reflecting:
•higher operating lease income from growth in auto operating
lease volume in CCB, and
•higher investment valuation gains in AWM, which were
largely offset by the impact of the related hedges that were
reflected in principal transactions revenue,
largely offset by
•lower other income in CIB largely related to increased
amortization on a higher level of alternative energy
investments. The increased amortization was more than
offset by lower income tax expense from the associated tax
credits.
The prior year included:
•$505 million of fair value gains related to the adoption in the
first quarter of 2018 of the recognition and measurement
accounting guidance for certain equity investments
previously held at cost.
Refer to Note 6 for further information. Net interest income increased driven by continued balance
sheet growth and changes in mix, as well as higher average
short-term rates, partially offset by higher rates paid on
deposits.
The Firm’s average interest-earning assets were $2.3 trillion,
up $133 billion, and the yield was 3.61%, up 14 bps. The net
yield on these assets, on an FTE basis, was 2.46%, a decrease
of 6 bps. The net yield excluding CIB Markets was 3.27%, up
2bps.
Net yield excluding CIB Markets is a non-GAAP financial
measure. Refer to Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm’s
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Key Performance
Measures on pages 57–59 for a further discussion of this
measure.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 49
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Provision for credit losses   
Year ended December 31,    
(in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Consumer, excluding credit card$ (383)$ (63)$ 620
Credit card 5,348 4,818 4,973
Total consumer 4,965 4,755 5,593
Wholesale 620 116 (303)
Total provision for credit losses$ 5,585 $ 4,871 $ 5,290
2019 compared with 2018
The provision for credit losses increased driven by both the
wholesale and consumer portfolios.
The increase in the wholesale provision reflects additions to
the allowance for credit losses in the current year on select
client downgrades. The prior year reflected a benefit related to
a single name in the Oil & Gas portfolio and higher recoveries. The increase in the total consumer provision reflects:
•an increase in credit card due to
–higher net charge-offs on loan growth, in line with
expectations, and
–a $500 million addition to the allowance for loan losses
reflecting loan growth and higher loss rates, as newer
vintages season and become a larger part of the portfolio,
compared to a $300 million addition in the prior year
largely offset by
•a decrease in consumer, excluding credit card, in CCB due to
–a $650 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses
in the purchase credit-impaired (“PCI”) residential real
estate portfolio, reflecting continued improvement in
home prices and delinquencies, and a $100 million
reduction in the allowance for loan losses in the non
credit-impaired residential real estate portfolio, compared
to a $250 million reduction in the PCI residential real
estate portfolio in the prior year, and
–a $50 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses in
the business banking portfolio
partially offset by
–lower net recoveries in the residential real estate portfolio
as the prior year benefited from larger recoveries on loan
sales.
Refer to the segment discussions of CCB on pages 62–65, CIB
on pages 66-70, CB on pages 71–73, the Allowance for Credit
Losses on pages 116–117 and Note 13 for further discussion of
the credit portfolio and the allowance for credit losses.
50 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Noninterest expense   
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Compensation expense $ 34,155$ 33,117$ 31,208
Noncompensation expense:   
Occupancy 4,322 3,952 3,723
Technology, communications and
equipment 9,821 8,802 7,715
Professional and outside services 8,533 8,502 7,890
Marketing 3,579 3,290 2,900
Other(a)(b) 5,087 5,731 6,079
Total noncompensation expense 31,342 30,277 28,307
Total noninterest expense $ 65,497$ 63,394$ 59,515
(a)Included Firmwide legal expense/(benefit) of $239 million, $72 million
and $(35) million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017,
respectively.
(b)Included FDIC-related expense of $457 million, $1.2 billion and $1.5
billion for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017,
respectively.
2019 compared with 2018
Compensation expense increased driven by investments
across the businesses, including front office, as well as
technology staff hires.
Noncompensation expense increased as a result of:
•higher investments across the businesses, including
technology, real estate and marketing
•higher volume-related expense, including depreciation from
growth in auto lease assets in CCB, and brokerage expense
in certain businesses in CIB
•higher legal expense, and
•higher pension costs due to changes to actuarial assumptions
and estimates,
largely offset by
•lower FDIC charges as a result of the elimination of the
surcharge at the end of the third quarter of 2018
•the impact of efficiencies
•lower other regulatory-related assessments in CIB.
The prior year included a loss of $174 million on the
liquidation of a legal entity in Corporate recorded in other
expense. Refer to Note 24 for additional information on the
liquidation of a legal entity. 
Income tax expense    
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except rate)   
2019  2018  2017
Income before income tax
expense $44,545 $40,764 $35,900
Income tax expense 8,114 8,290 11,459
Effective tax rate 18.2% 20.3% 31.9%
2019 compared with 2018
The effective tax rate decreased due to the recognition of $1.1
billion of tax benefits related to the resolution of certain tax
audits, and changes in the mix of income and expense subject
to U.S. federal, and state and local taxes. The decrease was
partially offset by lower tax benefits related to the vesting of
employee share-based awards. In addition, the prior year
included a $302 million net tax benefit resulting from changes
in the estimates under the TCJA related to the remeasurement
of certain deferred taxes and the deemed repatriation tax on
non-U.S. earnings. Refer to Note 25 for further information.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 51
Management’ s discussion and analysis
CONSOLIDA TED BALANCE SHEETS AND CASH FLOWS ANAL YSIS
Consolidated balance sheets analysis
The following is a discussion of the significant changes between December 31, 2019 and 2018.
Selected Consolidated balance sheets data  
December 31, (in millions) 2019  2018 Change
Assets    
Cash and due from banks $ 21,704 $ 22,324 (3)%
Deposits with banks 241,927 256,469 (6)
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements 249,157 321,588 (23)
Securities borrowed 139,758 111,995 25
Trading assets 411,103 413,714 (1)
Investment securities 398,239 261,828 52
Loans 959,769 984,554 (3)
Allowance for loan losses (13,123) (13,445) (2)
Loans, net of allowance for loan losses 946,646 971,109 (3)
Accrued interest and accounts receivable 72,861 73,200 —
Premises and equipment 25,813 14,934 73
Goodwill, MSRs and other intangible assets 53,341 54,349 (2)
Other assets 126,830 121,022 5
Total assets $ 2,687,379 $ 2,622,532 2 %
Cash and due from banks and deposits with banks
decreased primarily as a result of a shift in the deployment of
cash to investment securities, and net maturities of short-term
borrowings and long term debt in Treasury and CIO, partially
offset by an increase in deposits. Deposits with banks reflect
the Firm’s placements of its excess cash with various central
banks, including the Federal Reserve Banks.
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale
agreements decreased as a result of client-driven market-
making activities in Fixed Income Markets in CIB and a shift
in the deployment of cash in Treasury and CIO. Refer to
Liquidity Risk Management on pages 93–98 and Note 10 for
additional information.
Securities borrowed increased in CIB related to client-driven
market-making activities in Fixed Income Markets, and to
cover customer short positions in prime brokerage. Refer to
Liquidity Risk Management on pages 93–98 and Note 10 for
additional information.
Trading assets was relatively flat, reflecting:
•a reduction in short-term instruments associated with cash
deployment activities in Treasury and CIO,
offset by
•growth in client-driven activities in CIB Markets, primarily
debt instruments, and
•in CCB, growth related to originations of mortgage
warehouse loans, resulting from the favorable rate
environment.
Refer to Notes 2 and 5 for additional information. Investment securities increased primarily due to net
purchases of U.S. Treasuries and U.S. GSE and government
agency MBS in Treasury and CIO. The net purchases were
primarily driven by cash deployment and interest rate risk
management activities. Refer to Corporate segment results on
pages 77–78, Investment Portfolio Risk Management on page
118 and Notes 2 and 10 for additional information on
investment securities.
Loans decreased reflecting loan sales in Home Lending, and
lower loans in CIB, primarily driven by a loan syndication and
net paydowns, partially offset by growth in AWM and Card.
The allowance for loan losses decreased driven by:
•an $800 million reduction in the CCB allowance for loan
losses, which included $650 million in the PCI residential
real estate portfolio, reflecting continued improvement in
home prices and delinquencies; $100 million in the non
credit-impaired residential real estate portfolio; and $50
million in the business banking portfolio; as well as
•a $151 million reduction for write-offs of PCI loans,
largely offset by
•a $500 million addition to the allowance for loan losses in
the credit card portfolio reflecting loan growth and higher
loss rates as newer vintages season and become a larger part
of the portfolio, and
•a $115 million addition in the wholesale allowance for loan
losses driven by select client downgrades.
Refer to Credit and Investment Risk Management on pages
100–118, and Notes 2, 3, 12 and 13 for further discussion of
loans and the allowance for loan losses.
52 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Premises and equipment increased primarily due to the
adoption of the new lease accounting guidance effective
January 1, 2019. Refer to Note 18 for additional information.
Goodwill, MSRs and other intangibles decreased reflecting
lower MSRs as a result of the realization of expected cash
flows and faster prepayment speeds on lower rates, partially
offset by net additions to the MSRs. The decrease in MSRs was partially offset by an increase in goodwill related
to the acquisition of InstaMed. Refer to Note 15 for additional
information.
Other assets increased reflecting higher cash collateral placed
with central counterparties in CIB, and higher auto operating
lease assets from growth in the business in CCB.
Selected Consolidated balance sheets data  
December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018 Change
Liabilities  
Deposits $ 1,562,431 $ 1,470,666 6
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements 183,675 182,320 1
Short-term borrowings 40,920 69,276 (41)
Trading liabilities 119,277 144,773 (18)
Accounts payable and other liabilities 210,407 196,710 7
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities (“VIEs”) 17,841 20,241 (12)
Long-term debt 291,498 282,031 3
Total liabilities 2,426,049 2,366,017 3
Stockholders’ equity 261,330 256,515 2
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 2,687,379 $ 2,622,532 2 %
Deposits increased reflecting:
•continued growth driven by new accounts in CCB
•growth in operating deposits in CIB driven by client activity,
primarily in Treasury Services, and an increase in client-
driven net issuances of structured notes in Markets, and
•higher deposits in CB and AWM from growth in interest-
bearing deposits; for AWM, the growth was partially offset
by migration, predominantly into the Firm’s investment-
related products.
Refer to the Liquidity Risk Management discussion on pages
93–98; and Notes 2 and 17 for more information.
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold
under repurchase agreements was relatively flat,as the net
increase from the Firm’s participation in the Federal Reserve’s
open market operations was offset by client-driven activities,
and lower secured financing of trading assets-debt instruments,
all in CIB. Refer to the Liquidity Risk Management discussion
on pages 93–98 and Note 11 for additional information.
Short-term borrowings decreased reflecting lower
commercial paper issuances and short-term advances from
Federal Home Loan Banks (“FHLB”) in Treasury and CIO,
primarily driven by liquidity management. Refer to pages 93–
98 for information on changes in Liquidity Risk Management.
Trading liabilities decreased due to client-driven market-
making activities in CIB, which resulted in lower levels of
short positions in both debt and equity instruments in Markets.
Refer to Notes 2 and 5 for additional information. Accounts payable and other liabilities increased reflecting:
•the impact of the adoption of the new lease accounting
guidance effective January 1, 2019, and
•higher client payables related to client-driven activities in
CIB.
Refer to Note 18 for additional information on Leases.
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs decreased
due to:
•maturities of credit card securitizations,
largely offset by
•higher levels of Firm-administered multi-seller conduit
commercial paper issued to third parties.
Refer to Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements on pages 55–56 and
Note 14 and 28 for further information on Firm-sponsored
VIEs and loan securitization trusts.
Long-term debt increased as a result of client-driven net
issuances of structured notes in CIB’s Markets business,
partially offset by net maturities of FHLB advances in
Treasury and CIO.
Refer to Liquidity Risk Management on pages 93–98 and Note
20 for additional information on the Firm’s long-term debt
activities.
Refer to page 149 for information on changes in stockholders’
equity, and Capital actions on pages 90–91.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 53
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Consolidated cash flows analysis
The following is a discussion of cash flow activities during the
years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. Refer to
Consolidated cash flows analysis on page 54 of the Firm’s
2018 Form 10-K for a discussion of the 2017 activities.
(in millions) Year ended December 31,
 2019  2018 2017
Net cash provided by/(used
in)    
Operating activities  $ 6,046 $ 14,187 $ (10,827)
Investing activities  (54,013) (197,993) 28,249
Financing activities  32,987 34,158 14,642
Effect of exchange rate
changes on cash  (182) (2,863) 8,086
Net increase/(decrease) in
cash and due from banks
and deposits with banks  $(15,162) $(152,511)$ 40,150
Operating activities
JPMorgan Chase’s operating assets and liabilities primarily
support the Firm’s lending and capital markets activities. These
assets and liabilities can vary significantly in the normal course
of business due to the amount and timing of cash flows, which
are affected by client-driven and risk management activities
and market conditions. The Firm believes that cash flows from
operations, available cash and other liquidity sources, and its
capacity to generate cash through secured and unsecured
sources, are sufficient to meet its operating liquidity needs.
•In 2019, cash provided primarily reflected net income
excluding noncash adjustments and net proceeds of sales,
securitizations, and paydowns of loans held-for-sale,
partially offset by higher securities borrowed, an increase in
other assets and a decrease in trading liabilities.
•In 2018, cash provided primarily reflected net income
excluding noncash adjustments, increased trading liabilities
and accounts payable and other liabilities, partially offset by
an increase in trading assets and net originations of loans
held-for-sale. Investing activities
The Firm’s investing activities predominantly include
originating held-for-investment loans and investing in the
investment securities portfolio and other short-term
instruments.
•In 2019, cash used reflected net purchases of investment
securities, partially offset by lower securities purchased
under resale agreements, and net proceeds from sales and
securitizations of loans held-for-investment.
•In 2018, cash used reflected an increase in securities
purchased under resale agreements, higher net originations
of loans and net purchases of investment securities.
Financing activities
The Firm’s financing activities include acquiring customer
deposits and issuing long-term debt, as well as preferred and
common stock.
•In 2019, cash provided reflected higher deposits, partially
offset by a decrease in short-term borrowings and net
payments of long term borrowings.
•In 2018, cash provided reflected higher deposits, short-term
borrowings, and securities loaned or sold under repurchase
agreements, partially offset by net payments of long term
borrowings.
•For both periods, cash was used for repurchases of common
stock and cash dividends on common and preferred stock.
* * *
Refer to Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis on pages 52–
53, Capital Risk Management on pages 85–92, and Liquidity
Risk Management on pages 93–98 for a further discussion of
the activities affecting the Firm’s cash flows.
54 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
OFF-BALANCE SHEET  ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL  CASH OBLIGA TIONS
In the normal course of business, the Firm enters into various
off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual obligations that
may require future cash payments. Certain obligations are
recognized on-balance sheet, while others are disclosed off-
balance sheet under accounting principles generally accepted
in the U.S. (“U.S. GAAP”).
Special-purpose entities
The Firm has several types of off–balance sheet arrangements,
including through nonconsolidated special-purpose entities
(“SPEs”), which are a type of VIE, and through lending-related
financial instruments (e.g., commitments and guarantees). The Firm holds capital, as appropriate, against all SPE-related
transactions and related exposures, such as derivative contracts
and lending-related commitments and guarantees.
The Firm has no commitments to issue its own stock to
support any SPE transaction, and its policies require that
transactions with SPEs be conducted at arm’s length and
reflect market pricing. Consistent with this policy, no
JPMorgan Chase employee is permitted to invest in SPEs with
which the Firm is involved where such investment would
violate the Firm’s Code of Conduct.
The table below provides an index of where in this 2019 Form 10-K a discussion of the Firm’s various off-balance sheet
arrangements can be found. Refer to Note 1 for additional information about the Firm’s consolidation policies.
Type of off-balance sheet arrangement Location of disclosur e Page r eferences
Special-purpose entities: variable interests and other
obligations, including contingent obligations, arising from
variable interests in nonconsolidated VIEsRefer to Note 14 242–249
Off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments,
guarantees, and other commitmentsRefer to Note 28 272–277
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 55
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Contractual cash obligations
The accompanying table summarizes, by remaining maturity,
JPMorgan Chase’s significant contractual cash obligations at
December 31, 2019. The contractual cash obligations included
in the table below reflect the minimum contractual obligation
under legally enforceable contracts with terms that are both
fixed and determinable. Excluded from the table are certain
liabilities with variable cash flows and/or no obligation to
return a stated amount of principal at maturity. The carrying amount of on-balance sheet obligations on the
Consolidated balance sheets may differ from the minimum
contractual amount of the obligations reported below. Refer to
Note 28 for a discussion of mortgage repurchase liabilities and
other obligations.
Contractual cash obligations    
By remaining maturity at December 31,
(in millions)2019 2018
2020 2021-2022 2023-2024 After 2024 Total Total
On-balance sheet obligations    
Deposits(a) $ 1,546,142$ 5,840$ 3,550$ 2,508$ 1,558,040$ 1,468,031
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold
under repurchase agreements 183,304 — — 371 183,675 182,320
Short-term borrowings(a) 35,107 — — — 35,107 62,393
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs 13,628 3,950 — 296 17,874 20,258
Long-term debt(a) 35,031 58,847 50,680 105,857 250,415 258,658
Operating leases(b) 1,604 2,704 2,025 3,757 10,090 10,992
Other(c) 8,695 2,046 1,851 2,976 15,568 11,794
Total on-balance sheet obligations 1,823,511 73,387 58,106 115,765 2,070,769 2,014,446
Off-balance sheet obligations
Unsettled resale and securities borrowed agreements(d) 117,203 748 — — 117,951 102,008
Contractual interest payments(e) 7,844 10,517 7,876 28,444 54,681 58,252
Equity investment commitments 539 — — — 539 271
Contractual purchases and capital expenditures 1,920 766 210 33 2,929 3,599
Obligations under co-brand programs 351 710 382 105 1,548 1,937
Total off-balance sheet obligations 127,857 12,741 8,468 28,582 177,648 166,067
Total contractual cash obligations $ 1,951,368$ 86,128$ 66,574$ 144,347$ 2,248,417$ 2,180,513
(a)Excludes structured notes on which the Firm is not obligated to return a stated amount of principal at the maturity of the notes, but is obligated to return an
amount based on the performance of the structured notes.
(b)Includes noncancelable operating leases for premises and equipment used primarily for business purposes. Excludes the benefit of noncancelable sublease
rentals of $846 million and $825 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Refer to Note 18 for further information on operating leases.
(c)Primarily includes dividends declared on preferred and common stock, deferred annuity contracts, pension and other postretirement employee benefit
obligations, insurance liabilities and income taxes payable associated with the deemed repatriation under the TCJA.
(d)Refer to unsettled resale and securities borrowed agreements in Note 28 for further information.
(e)Includes accrued interest and future contractual interest obligations. Excludes interest related to structured notes for which the Firm’s payment obligation is
based on the performance of certain benchmarks.
56 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
EXPLANA TION AND RECONCILIA TION OF THE FIRM’S USE OF NON-GAAP  FINANCIAL
MEASURES AND KEY  PERFORMANCE MEASURES
Non-GAAP financial measures
The Firm prepares its Consolidated Financial Statements in
accordance with U.S. GAAP; these financial statements appear
on pages 146–150. That presentation, which is referred to as
“reported” basis, provides the reader with an understanding of
the Firm’s results that can be tracked consistently from year-to-
year and enables a comparison of the Firm’s performance with
other companies’ U.S. GAAP financial statements.
In addition to analyzing the Firm’s results on a reported basis,
management reviews Firmwide results, including the overhead
ratio, on a “managed” basis; these Firmwide managed basis
results are non-GAAP financial measures. The Firm also
reviews the results of the LOBs on a managed basis. The
Firm’s definition of managed basis starts, in each case, with
the reported U.S. GAAP results and includes certain
reclassifications to present total net revenue for the Firm (and
each of the reportable business segments) on an FTE basis.
Accordingly, revenue from investments that receive tax credits
and tax-exempt securities is presented in the managed results
on a basis comparable to taxable investments and securities.
These financial measures allow management to assess the comparability of revenue from year-
to-year arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The
corresponding income tax impact related to tax-exempt items
is recorded within income tax expense. These adjustments
have no impact on net income as reported by the Firm as a
whole or by the LOBs.
Management also uses certain non-GAAP financial measures
at the Firm and business-segment level, because these other
non-GAAP financial measures provide information to
investors about the underlying operational performance and
trends of the Firm or of the particular business segment, as the
case may be, and, therefore, facilitate a comparison of the Firm
or the business segment with the performance of its relevant
competitors. Refer to Business Segment Results on pages 60–
78 for additional information on these non-GAAP measures.
Non-GAAP financial measures used by the Firm may not be
comparable to similarly named non-GAAP financial measures
used by other companies.
The following summary table provides a reconciliation from the Firm’s reported U.S. GAAP results to managed basis.
 2019 2018 2017
Year ended
December 31,
(in millions, except ratios) ReportedFully taxable-
equivalent
adjustments(a)Managed
basis Reported Fully taxable-
equivalent
adjustments(a) Managed
basis ReportedFully taxable-
equivalent
adjustments(a)Managed
basis
Other income $ 5,731 $ 2,534 $ 8,265 $ 5,343 $ 1,877(b) $ 7,220 $ 3,646 $ 2,704 $ 6,350
Total noninterest revenue 58,382 2,534 60,916 53,970 1,877 55,847 50,608 2,704 53,312
Net interest income 57,245 531 57,776 55,059 628(b) 55,687 50,097 1,313 51,410
Total net revenue 115,627 3,065 118,692 109,029 2,505 111,534 100,705 4,017 104,722
Pre-provision profit 50,130 3,065 53,195 45,635 2,505 48,140 41,190 4,017 45,207
Income before income tax expense 44,545 3,065 47,610 40,764 2,505 43,269 35,900 4,017 39,917
Income tax expense 8,114 3,065 11,179 8,290 2,505(b) 10,795 11,459 4,017 15,476
Overhead ratio 57% NM 55% 58% NM 57% 59% NM 57%
(a) Predominantly recognized in CIB, CB and Corporate.
(b) The decrease in fully taxable-equivalent adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2018, reflects the impact of the TCJA.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 57
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Net interest income and net yield excluding CIB’s Markets
businesses
In addition to reviewing net interest income and the net yield
on a managed basis, management also reviews these metrics
excluding CIB’s Markets businesses, as shown below; these
metrics, which exclude CIB’s Markets businesses, are non-
GAAP financial measures. Management reviews these metrics
to assess the performance of the Firm’s lending, investing
(including asset-liability management) and deposit-raising
activities. The resulting metrics that exclude CIB’s Markets
businesses are referred to as non-markets-related net interest
income and net yield. CIB’s Markets businesses are Fixed
Income Markets and Equity Markets. Management believes
that disclosure of non-markets-related net interest income and
net yield provides investors and analysts with other measures
by which to analyze the non-markets-related business trends of
the Firm and provides a comparable measure to other financial
institutions that are primarily focused on lending, investing
and deposit-raising activities.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except rates) 2019 2018 2017
Net interest income –
reported $ 57,245 $ 55,059$ 50,097
Fully taxable-equivalent
adjustments 531 628 1,313
Net interest income –
managed basis(a) $ 57,776 $ 55,687$ 51,410
Less: CIB Markets net
interest income(b) 3,120 3,087 4,630
Net interest income
excluding CIB
Markets(a) $ 54,656 $ 52,600$ 46,780
Average interest-earning
assets(c) $2,345,491 $2,212,908$ 2,170,974
Less: Average CIB
Markets interest-earning
assets(b)(c) 672,629 593,355 531,217
Average interest-
earning assets
excluding CIB
Markets $1,672,862 $1,619,553$ 1,639,757
Net yield on average
interest-earning assets
– managed basis(c) 2.46% 2.52% 2.37%
Net yield on average CIB
Markets interest-earning
assets(b)(c) 0.46 0.52 0.87
Net yield on average
interest-earning assets
excluding CIB Markets 3.27% 3.25% 2.85%
(a)Interest includes the effect of related hedges. Taxable-equivalent amounts
are used where applicable.
(b)Refer to page 69 for further information on CIB’s Markets businesses.
(c)In the second quarter of 2019, the Firm reclassified balances related to
certain instruments from interest-earning to noninterest-earning assets, as
the associated returns are recorded in principal transactions revenue and
not in net interest income. These changes were applied retrospectively
and, accordingly, prior period amounts were revised to conform with the
current presentation. 
Calculation of certain U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures
Certain U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures are calculated as
follows:
Book value per share (“BVPS”)
Common stockholders’ equity at period-end /
Common shares at period-end
Overhead ratio
Total noninterest expense / Total net revenue
Return on assets (“ROA”)
Reported net income / Total average assets
Return on common equity (“ROE”)
Net income* / Average common stockholders’ equity
Return on tangible common equity (“ROTCE”)
Net income* / Average tangible common equity
Tangible book value per share (“TBVPS”)
Tangible common equity at period-end / Common shares at period-end
* Represents net income applicable to common equity
The Firm also reviews adjusted expense, which is noninterest
expense excluding Firmwide legal expense and is therefore a
non-GAAP financial measure. Additionally, certain credit
metrics and ratios disclosed by the Firm exclude PCI loans,
and are therefore non-GAAP measures. Management believes
that these measures help investors understand the effect of
these items on reported results and provide an alternate
presentation of the Firm’s performance. Refer to Credit and
Investment Risk Management on pages 100–118 for additional
information on credit metrics and ratios excluding PCI loans.
58 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Tangible common equity, ROTCE and TBVPS
Tangible common equity (“TCE”), ROTCE and TBVPS are each non-GAAP financial measures. TCE represents the Firm’s
common stockholders’ equity (i.e., total stockholders’ equity less preferred stock) less goodwill and identifiable intangible assets
(other than MSRs), net of related deferred tax liabilities. ROTCE measures the Firm’s net income applicable to common equity as a
percentage of average TCE. TBVPS represents the Firm’s TCE at period-end divided by common shares at period-end. TCE,
ROTCE and TBVPS are utilized by the Firm, as well as investors and analysts, in assessing the Firm’s use of equity.
The following summary table provides a reconciliation from the Firm’s common stockholders’ equity to TCE.
 Period-end  Average
 
Dec 31,
2019Dec 31,
2018 Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except per share and ratio data)  2019 2018 2017
Common stockholders’ equity $ 234,337$ 230,447 $ 232,907 $ 229,222$ 230,350
Less: Goodwill 47,823 47,471 47,620 47,491 47,317
Less: Other intangible assets 819 748 789 807 832
Add: Certain deferred tax liabilities(a) 2,381 2,280 2,328 2,231 3,116
Tangible common equity $ 188,076$ 184,508 $ 186,826 $ 183,155$ 185,317
Return on tangible common equity NA NA 19% 17% 12%
Tangible book value per share $ 60.98$ 56.33 NA NA NA
(a)Represents deferred tax liabilities related to tax-deductible goodwill and to identifiable intangibles created in nontaxable transactions, which are netted against
goodwill and other intangibles when calculating TCE.
Key performance measures
Core loans is considered a key performance measure. Core
loans represents loans considered central to the Firm’s ongoing
businesses, and excludes loans classified as trading assets,
runoff portfolios, discontinued portfolios and portfolios the
Firm has an intent to exit. Core loans is a measure utilized by
the Firm and its investors and analysts in assessing actual
growth in the loan portfolio.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 59
Management’ s discussion and analysis
BUSINESS SEGMENT  RESUL TS
The Firm is managed on an LOB basis. There are four major
reportable business segments – Consumer & Community
Banking, Corporate & Investment Bank, Commercial Banking
and Asset & Wealth Management. In addition, there is a
Corporate segment. The business segments are determined based on the products
and services provided, or the type of customer served, and they
reflect the manner in which financial information is currently
evaluated by the Firm’s Operating Committee. Segment results
are presented on a managed basis. Refer to Explanation and
Reconciliation of the Firm’s use of Non-GAAP Financial
Measures and Key Performance Measures, on pages 57–59 for
a definition of managed basis.
 JPMorgan Chase
 
 Consumer Businesses Wholesale Businesses
 
 Consumer  & Community Banking Corporate & Investment BankCommer cial
Banking (a)Asset & Wealth
Management
 
 Consumer &
Business Banking
 Home LendingCard, Merchant
Services & AutoBanking
 Markets &
Securities Services • Middle Market
Banking • Asset Management
  • Consumer
Banking/Chase
Wealth
Management
 • Business Banking
  • Home Lending
Production
 • Home Lending
Servicing
 • Real Estate
Portfolios • Card Services
 – Credit Card
 – Merchant
Services(a)
 • Auto • Investment
Banking
 • Treasury
Services(a)
 • Lending • Fixed
Income
Markets • Corporate Client
Banking • Wealth Management
  • Equity Markets
 • Securities Services
 • Credit Adjustments
& Other • Commercial Real
Estate Banking 
 
(a)Effective in the first quarter of 2020, the Merchant Services business was realigned from CCB to CIB as part of the Firm’s Wholesale Payments business. The
revenue and expenses of the Merchant Services business will be reported across CCB, CIB and CB based primarily on client relationship.
Description of business segment reporting methodology
Results of the business segments are intended to present each
segment as if it were a stand-alone business. The management
reporting process that derives business segment results
includes the allocation of certain income and expense items,
described in more detail below. The Firm also assesses the
level of capital required for each LOB on at least an annual
basis. The Firm periodically assesses the assumptions,
methodologies and reporting classifications used for segment
reporting, and further refinements may be implemented in
future periods. Revenue sharing
When business segments join efforts to sell products and
services to the Firm’s clients, the participating business
segments may agree to share revenue from those transactions.
Revenue is generally recognized in the segment responsible for
the related product or service on a gross basis, with an
allocation to the other segment(s) involved in the transaction.
The segment results reflect these revenue-sharing agreements.
60 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Expense Allocation
Where business segments use services provided by corporate
support units, or another business segment, the costs of those
services are allocated to the respective business segments. The
expense is generally allocated based on the actual cost and use
of services provided. In contrast, certain costs and investments
related to corporate support units, technology and operations
not currently leveraged by any LOB, are not allocated to the
business segments and are retained in Corporate. Expense
retained in Corporate generally includes parent company costs
that would not be incurred if the segments were stand-alone
businesses; adjustments to align corporate support units; and
other items not aligned with a particular business segment.
Funds transfer pricing
Funds transfer pricing is the process by which the Firm
allocates interest income and expense to each business
segment and transfers the primary interest rate risk and
liquidity risk exposures to Treasury and CIO within Corporate.
The funds transfer pricing process considers the interest rate
risk, liquidity risk and regulatory requirements on a product-
by-product basis within each business segment. This process is
overseen by senior management and reviewed by the Firm’s
Treasurer Committee. Debt expense and preferred stock dividend allocation
As part of the funds transfer pricing process, almost all of the
cost of the credit spread component of outstanding unsecured
long-term debt and preferred stock dividends is allocated to the
reportable business segments, while the balance of the cost is
retained in Corporate. The methodology to allocate the cost of
unsecured long-term debt and preferred stock dividends to the
business segments is aligned with the Firm’s process to
allocate capital. The allocated cost of unsecured long-term debt
is included in a business segment’s net interest income, and net
income is reduced by preferred stock dividends to arrive at a
business segment’s net income applicable to common equity.
Business segment capital allocation
The amount of capital assigned to each business is referred to
as equity. Periodically, the assumptions and methodologies
used to allocate capital are assessed and as a result, the capital
allocated to the LOBs may change. Refer to Line of business
equity on page 90 for additional information on business
segment capital allocation.
Segment Results – Managed Basis
The following tables summarize the Firm’s results by segment for the periods indicated.
Year ended December
31, Consumer & Community Banking  Corporate & Investment Bank  Commercial Banking
(in millions, except
ratios) 2019 2018 2017  2019 2018 2017  2019 2018 2017
Total net revenue $55,883 $52,079 $46,485  $38,298 $36,448 $34,657  $8,984 $9,059 $8,605
Total noninterest
expense 28,896 27,835 26,062  21,519 20,918 19,407  3,500 3,386 3,327
Pre-provision
profit/(loss) 26,987 24,244 20,423  16,779 15,530 15,250  5,484 5,673 5,278
Provision for credit
losses 4,952 4,753 5,572  277 (60) (45) 296 129 (276)
Net income/(loss) 16,641 14,852 9,395  11,922 11,773 10,813  3,924 4,237 3,539
Return on equity
(“ROE”) 31% 28% 17% 14% 16% 14% 17% 20% 17%
Year ended December
31, Asset & Wealth Management Corporate Total
(in millions, except
ratios) 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017
Total net revenue $14,316 $14,076 $13,835 $1,211 $(128)$1,140 $118,692 $111,534 $104,722
Total noninterest
expense 10,515 10,353 10,218 1,067 902 501 65,497 63,394 59,515
Pre-provision
profit/(loss) 3,801 3,723 3,617 144 (1,030) 639 53,195 48,140 45,207
Provision for credit
losses 61 53 39 (1) (4) — 5,585 4,871 5,290
Net income/(loss) 2,833 2,853 2,337 1,111 (1,241) (1,643) 36,431 32,474 24,441
Return on equity
(“ROE”) 26% 31% 25%  NM  NM NM 15% 13% 10%
Note: Net income in 2019 and 2018 for each of the business segments reflects the favorable impact of the reduction in the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate as a
result of the TCJA.
The following sections provide a comparative discussion of the Firms results by segment as of or for the years ended December 31,
2019 and 2018.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 61
Management’ s discussion and analysis
CONSUMER & COMMUNITY  BANKING
Consumer & Community Banking offers services to
consumers and businesses through bank branches,
ATMs, digital (including mobile and online) and
telephone banking. CCB is organized into Consumer &
Business Banking (including Consumer Banking/Chase
Wealth Management and Business Banking), Home
Lending (including Home Lending Production, Home
Lending Servicing and Real Estate Portfolios) and Card,
Merchant Services & Auto. Consumer & Business
Banking offers deposit and investment products and
services to consumers, and lending, deposit, and cash
management and payment solutions to small businesses.
Home Lending includes mortgage origination and
servicing activities, as well as portfolios consisting of
residential mortgages and home equity loans. Card,
Merchant Services & Auto issues credit cards to
consumers and small businesses, offers payment
processing services to merchants, and originates and
services auto loans and leases. 
Selected income statement data 
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios) 2019  2018 2017
Revenue  
Lending- and deposit-related
fees $ 3,859 $ 3,624 $ 3,431
Asset management,
administration and
commissions 2,499 2,402 2,212
Mortgage fees and related
income 2,035 1,252 1,613
Card income 4,847 4,554 4,024
All other income 5,402 4,428 3,430
Noninterest revenue 18,642 16,260 14,710
Net interest income 37,241 35,819 31,775
Total net revenue 55,883 52,079 46,485
Provision for credit losses 4,952 4,753 5,572
Noninterest expense  
Compensation expense 10,700 10,534 10,133
Noncompensation expense(a) 18,196 17,301 15,929
Total noninterest expense 28,896 27,835 26,062
Income before income tax
expense 22,035 19,491 14,851
Income tax expense 5,394 4,639 5,456
Net income $ 16,641 $ 14,852 $ 9,395
Revenue by line of business  
Consumer & Business
Banking $ 26,495 $ 24,805 $ 21,104
Home Lending 5,179 5,484 5,955
Card, Merchant Services &
Auto 24,209 21,790 19,426
Mortgage fees and related
income details:  
Net production revenue 1,618 268 636
Net mortgage servicing
  revenue(b) 417 984 977
Mortgage fees and related
income $ 2,035 $ 1,252 $ 1,613
Financial ratios  
Return on equity 31% 28% 17%
Overhead ratio 52 53 56
Note: In the discussion and the tables which follow, CCB presents certain
financial measures which exclude the impact of PCI loans; these are non-
GAAP financial measures.
(a)Included depreciation expense on leased assets of $4.1 billion, $3.4 billion
and $2.7 billion for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017,
respectively.
(b)Included MSR risk management results of $(165) million, $(111) million
and $(242) million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and
2017, respectively.
62 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
2019 compared with 2018
Net income was $16.6 billion, an increase of 12%.
Net revenue was $55.9 billion, an increase of 7%. Net production
revenue included approximately $500 million of gains on the sales
of certain mortgage loans that were predominantly offset by
charges in net interest income for the unwind of the related
internal funding from Treasury and CIO associated with these
loans. The charges reflect the net present value of that funding and
is recognized as interest income in Treasury and CIO. Refer to
Corporate on pages 77–78 and Funds Transfer Pricing (“FTP”) on
page 61 of this Form 10-K for further information.
Net interest income was $37.2 billion, up 4%, and included
charges from the loan sales mentioned above. Excluding these
charges, net interest income increased, driven by:
•higher loan balances and margin expansion in Card, as well as
higher deposit margins and growth in deposit balances in CBB,
partially offset by
•lower loan balances due to loan sales, as well as loan spread
compression in Home Lending.
Noninterest revenue was $18.6 billion, up 15%, and included
gains from the loan sales mentioned above as well as the impact
of the prior-year adjustment of approximately $330 million to the
credit card rewards liability. Excluding these notable items,
noninterest revenue increased 9%, driven by:
•higher auto lease volume, and
•higher net mortgage production revenue reflecting higher
production volumes and margins,
partially offset by
•lower net mortgage servicing revenue driven by lower operating
revenue reflecting faster prepayment speeds on lower rates and
the impact of reclassifying certain loans to held-for-sale.
Refer to Note 15 for further information regarding changes in
value of the MSR asset and related hedges, and mortgage fees and
related income.
Noninterest expense was $28.9 billion, up 4%, driven by:
•investments in the business including technology and marketing
and higher depreciation on auto lease assets,
partially offset by
•expense efficiencies and lower FDIC charges. The provision for credit losses was $5.0 billion, an increase of
4%, reflecting:
•an increase in credit card due to
–higher net charge-offs on loan growth, in line with
expectations, and
–a $500 million addition to the allowance for loan losses
reflecting loan growth and higher loss rates, as newer
vintages season and become a larger part of the portfolio,
compared to a $300 million addition in the prior year
largely offset by
•a decrease in consumer, excluding credit card due to
–a $650 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses in
the PCI residential real estate portfolio, reflecting continued
improvement in home prices and delinquencies, and a $100
million reduction in the allowance for loan losses in the non
credit-impaired residential real estate portfolio, compared to a
$250 million reduction in the PCI residential real estate
portfolio in the prior year, and
–a $50 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses in the
business banking portfolio
partially offset by
–lower net recoveries in the residential real estate portfolio as
the prior year benefited from larger recoveries on loan sales.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 63
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Selected metrics   
As of or for the year ended
December 31,    
(in millions, except headcount) 2019 2018 2017
Selected balance sheet data
(period-end)    
Total assets $539,090$557,441$552,601
Loans:    
Consumer & Business
Banking 27,199 26,612 25,789
Home equity 30,163 36,013 42,751
Residential mortgage 169,636 203,859 197,339
Home Lending 199,799 239,872 240,090
Card 168,924 156,632 149,511
Auto 61,522 63,573 66,242
Total loans 457,444 486,689 481,632
Core loans 414,107 434,466 415,167
Deposits 718,416 678,854 659,885
Equity 52,000 51,000 51,000
Selected balance sheet data
(average)    
Total assets $542,191$547,368$532,756
Loans:    
Consumer & Business
Banking 26,608 26,197 24,875
Home equity 32,975 39,133 46,398
Residential mortgage 186,557 202,624 190,242
Home Lending 219,532 241,757 236,640
Card 156,325 145,652 140,024
Auto 61,862 64,675 65,395
Student — — 2,880
Total loans 464,327 478,281 469,814
Core loans 416,694 419,066 393,598
Deposits 693,550 670,388 640,219
Equity 52,000 51,000 51,000
Headcount 127,137 129,518 133,721 
Selected metrics   
As of or for the year ended
December 31,    
(in millions, except ratio
data) 2019 2018  2017
Credit data and quality
statistics    
Nonaccrual loans(a)(b) $ 3,018 $ 3,339 $ 4,084
Net charge-offs/(recoveries)
(c)    
Consumer & Business
Banking 296 236 257
Home equity (48) (7) 63
Residential mortgage (50) (287) (16)
Home Lending (98) (294) 47
Card 4,848 4,518 4,123
Auto 206 243 331
Student — — 498 (g) 
Total net charge-
offs/(recoveries) $ 5,252 $ 4,703 $ 5,256 (g) 
Net charge-off/(recovery)
rate(c)    
Consumer & Business
Banking 1.11 % 0.90% 1.03%
Home equity(d)(0.19) (0.02) 0.18
Residential mortgage(d)(0.03) (0.16) (0.01)
Home Lending(d)(0.05) (0.14) 0.02
Card 3.10 3.10 2.95
Auto 0.33 0.38 0.51
Student — — NM
Total net charge-
offs/(recovery) rate(d) 1.20 1.04 1.21 (g) 
30+ day delinquency rate   
Home Lending(e)(f)0.76 % 0.77% 1.19%
Card 1.87 1.83 1.80
Auto 0.94 0.93 0.89
90+ day delinquency rate -
Card 0.95 0.92 0.92
Allowance for loan losses   
Consumer & Business
Banking $ 746 $ 796 $ 796
Home Lending, excluding
PCI loans 903 1,003 1,003
Home Lending — PCI
loans(c) 987 1,788 2,225
Card 5,683 5,184 4,884
Auto 465 464 464
Total allowance for
loan losses(c) $ 8,784 $ 9,235 $ 9,372
(a)Excludes PCI loans. The Firm is recognizing interest income on each pool of PCI
loans as each of the pools is performing.
(b)At December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, nonaccrual loans excluded mortgage loans
90 or more days past due and insured by U.S. government agencies of $961 million,
$2.6 billion and $4.3 billion, respectively. These amounts have been excluded based
upon the government guarantee.
(c)Net charge-offs/(recoveries) and the net charge-off/(recovery) rates for the years
ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, excluded $151 million, $187 million and
$86 million, respectively, of write-offs in the PCI portfolio. These write-offs
decreased the allowance for loan losses for PCI loans. Refer to Summary of changes
in the allowance for credit losses on page 117 for further information on PCI write-
offs.
(d)Excludes the impact of PCI loans. For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and
2017, the net charge-off/(recovery) rates including the impact of PCI loans were as
follows: (1) home equity of (0.15)%, (0.02)% and 0.14%, respectively; (2) residential
mortgage of (0.03)%, (0.14)% and (0.01)%, respectively; (3)
64 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Home Lending of (0.05)%, (0.12)% and 0.02%, respectively; and (4) total CCB of
1.14%, 0.98% and 1.12%, respectively.
(e)At December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, excluded mortgage loans insured by U.S.
government agencies of $1.7 billion, $4.1 billion and $6.2 billion, respectively, that
are 30 or more days past due. These amounts have been excluded based upon the
government guarantee.
(f)Excludes PCI loans. The 30+ day delinquency rate for PCI loans was 8.44%, 9.16%
and 10.13% at December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
(g)Excluding net charge-offs of $467 million related to the student loan portfolio
transfer, the total net charge-off rates for the full year 2017 would have been 1.10%. 
Selected metrics
As of or for the year ended
December 31,
(in billions, except ratios
and where otherwise
noted) 2019 2018 2017
Business Metrics
CCB households (in
millions) 62.6 61.7 61.1
Number of branches 4,976 5,036 5,130
Active digital customers
(in thousands)(a) 52,421 49,254 46,694
Active mobile customers
(in thousands)(b) 37,297 33,260 30,056
Debit and credit card sales
volume $ 1,114.4 $ 1,016.9$ 916.9
Consumer & Business Banking
Average deposits $ 678.9 $ 656.5$ 625.6
Deposit margin 2.49% 2.38% 1.98%
Business banking
origination volume $ 6.6 $ 6.7$ 7.3
Client investment assets 358.0 282.5 273.3
Home Lending
Mortgage origination
volume by channel
Retail $ 51.0 $ 38.3$ 40.3
Correspondent 54.2 41.1 57.3
Total mortgage
origination volume(c)$ 105.2 $ 79.4$ 97.6
Total loans serviced
(period-end) $ 761.4 $ 789.8$ 816.1
Third-party mortgage loans
serviced (period-end) 520.8 519.6 553.5
MSR carrying value
  (period-end) 4.7 6.1 6.0
Ratio of MSR carrying
value (period-end) to
third-party mortgage loans
serviced (period-end) 0.90% 1.17% 1.08%
MSR revenue multiple(d) 2.65x 3.34x 3.09x
Card, excluding Commercial Card
Credit card sales volume $ 762.8 $ 692.4$ 622.2
New accounts opened
(in millions) 7.8 7.8 8.4
Card Services
Net revenue rate 11.52% 11.27% 10.57%
Merchant Services
Merchant processing
volume $ 1,511.5 $ 1,366.1$ 1,191.7
Auto
Loan and lease origination
volume $ 34.0 $ 31.8$ 33.3
Average Auto operating
lease assets 21.6 18.8 15.2
(a)Users of all web and/or mobile platforms who have logged in within the past 90 days.
(b)Users of all mobile platforms who have logged in within the past 90 days.
(c)Firmwide mortgage origination volume was $115.9 billion, $86.9 billion and $107.6
billion for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
(d)Represents the ratio of MSR carrying value (period-end) to third-party mortgage
loans serviced (period-end) divided by the ratio of loan servicing-related revenue to
third-party mortgage loans serviced (average).
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 65
Management’ s discussion and analysis
CORPORA TE & INVESTMENT  BANK
The Corporate & Investment Bank, which consists of
Banking and Markets & Securities Services, offers a
broad suite of investment banking, market-making,
prime brokerage, and treasury and securities products
and services to a global client base of corporations,
investors, financial institutions, government and
municipal entities. Banking offers a full range of
investment banking products and services in all major
capital markets, including advising on corporate strategy
and structure, capital-raising in equity and debt markets,
as well as loan origination and syndication. Banking also
includes Treasury Services, which provides transaction
services, consisting of cash management and liquidity
solutions. Markets & Securities Services is a global
market-maker in cash securities and derivative
instruments, and also offers sophisticated risk
management solutions, prime brokerage, and
research. Markets & Securities Services also includes
Securities Services, a leading global custodian which
provides custody, fund accounting and administration,
and securities lending products principally for asset
managers, insurance companies and public and private
investment funds.
Selected income statement data
Year ended December 31,  
(in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Revenue   
Investment banking fees $ 7,575 $ 7,473 $ 7,356
Principal transactions 14,396 12,271 10,873
Lending- and deposit-related fees 1,518 1,497 1,531
Asset management, administration
and commissions 4,545 4,488 4,207
All other income 1,108 1,239 572
Noninterest revenue 29,142 26,968 24,539
Net interest income 9,156 9,480 10,118
Total net revenue(a) 38,298 36,448 34,657
Provision for credit losses 277 (60) (45)
Noninterest expense   
Compensation expense 10,618 10,215 9,531
Noncompensation expense 10,901 10,703 9,876
Total noninterest expense 21,519 20,918 19,407
Income before income tax
expense 16,502 15,590 15,295
Income tax expense 4,580 3,817 4,482
Net income $ 11,922 $ 11,773 $ 10,813
(a)Includes tax-equivalent adjustments, predominantly due to income tax
credits related to alternative energy investments; income tax credits and
amortization of the cost of investments in affordable housing projects; and
tax-exempt income from municipal bonds of $2.3 billion, $1.7 billion and
$2.4 billion for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017,
respectively. 
Selected income statement data  
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios) 2019 2018 2017
Financial ratios  
Return on equity 14% 16% 14%
Overhead ratio 56 57 56
Compensation expense as
percentage of total net
revenue 28 28 28
Revenue by business  
Investment Banking $ 7,215 $ 6,987 $ 6,852
Treasury Services 4,565 4,697 4,172
Lending 1,331 1,298 1,429
Total Banking 13,111 12,982 12,453
Fixed Income Markets 14,418 12,706 12,812
Equity Markets 6,494 6,888 5,703
Securities Services 4,154 4,245 3,917
Credit Adjustments & Other(a) 121 (373) (228)
Total Markets & Securities
Services 25,187 23,466 22,204
Total net revenue $38,298 $36,448 $34,657
(a)Includes credit valuation adjustments (“CVA”) managed centrally within
CIB and funding valuation adjustments (“FVA”) on derivatives, which are
primarily reported in principal transactions revenue. Results are presented
net of associated hedging activities and net of CVA and FVA amounts
allocated to Fixed Income Markets and Equity Markets. Refer to Notes 2,
3 and 24 for additional information.
2019 compared with 2018
Net income was $11.9 billion, up 1%.
Net revenue was $38.3 billion, up 5%.
Banking revenue was $13.1 billion, up 1%.
•Investment Banking revenue was $7.2 billion, up 3%, with
higher debt underwriting fees, largely offset by lower
advisory and equity underwriting fees. The Firm maintained
its #1 ranking for Global Investment Banking fees with
overall share gains, according to Dealogic.
–Debt underwriting fees were $3.5 billion, up 8%,
reflecting wallet share gains and increased activity in
investment-grade and high-yield bonds.
–Advisory fees were $2.4 billion, down 5%, and Equity
underwriting fees were $1.7 billion, down 1%, driven by a
decline in industry-wide fees despite wallet share gains.
•Treasury Services revenue was $4.6 billion, down 3%,
driven by deposit margin compression predominantly offset
by higher balances and fee growth.
•Lending revenue was $1.3 billion, up 3%, with higher net
interest income largely offset by losses on hedges of accrual
loans.
66 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Markets & Securities Services revenue was $25.2 billion, up
7%. Markets revenue was $20.9 billion, up 7% which included
a gain on the IPO of Tradeweb in the second quarter of 2019.
Prior year results included approximately $500 million of fair
value gains recorded in the first quarter of 2018 related to the
adoption of the recognition and measurement accounting
guidance for certain equity investments previously held at cost.
•Fixed Income Markets revenue was $14.4 billion, up 13%,
reflecting an overall strong performance, notably in
Securitized Products. The increase in 2019 also reflected the
impact of challenging market conditions in Credit and Rates
in the fourth quarter of 2018.
•Equity Markets revenue was $6.5 billion, down 6%,
compared to a strong prior year, driven by lower client
activity in derivatives partially offset by higher client
activity in Cash Equities.
•Securities Services revenue was $4.2 billion, down 2%,
driven by deposit margin compression and the impact of a
business exit largely offset by organic growth.
•Credit Adjustments & Other was a gain of $121 million
reflecting tighter funding spreads on derivatives, compared
with a loss of $373 million in the prior year.
The provision for credit losses was $277 million, compared
with a $60 million net benefit in the prior year. This increase
reflects additions to the allowance for credit losses in the
current year on select client downgrades, and a benefit related
to a single name in the Oil & Gas portfolio and higher
recoveries, both in the prior year.
Noninterest expense was $21.5 billion, up 3%, predominantly
driven by higher volume-related expenses and investments,
including front office and technology staff hires, as well as
higher legal expense, partially offset by lower FDIC charges.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 67
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Selected metrics   
As of or for the year ended
December 31,
(in millions, except headcount) 2019  2018 2017
Selected balance sheet data
(period-end)   
Assets $908,153 $903,051$826,384
Loans:   
Loans retained(a) 121,733 129,389 108,765
Loans held-for-sale and
loans at fair value 10,112 13,050 4,321
Total loans 131,845 142,439 113,086
Core loans 131,672 142,122 112,754
Equity 80,000 70,000 70,000
Selected balance sheet data
(average)   
Assets $985,544 $922,758$857,060
Trading assets-debt and equity
instruments 404,363 349,169 342,124
Trading assets-derivative
receivables 48,196 60,552 56,466
Loans:   
Loans retained(a) 122,371 114,417 108,368
Loans held-for-sale and
loans at fair value 8,609 6,412 4,995
Total loans 130,980 120,829 113,363
Core loans 130,810 120,560 113,006
Equity 80,000 70,000 70,000
Headcount 55,991 54,480 51,181
(a)Loans retained includes credit portfolio loans, loans held by consolidated
Firm-administered multi-seller conduits, trade finance loans, other held-
for-investment loans and overdrafts. 
Selected metrics   
As of or for the year ended
December 31,
(in millions, except ratios) 
2019 2018 2017
Credit data and quality
statistics   
Net charge-
offs/(recoveries) $ 183 $ 93 $ 71
Nonperforming assets:   
Nonaccrual loans:   
Nonaccrual loans
retained(a) 308 443 812
Nonaccrual loans held-
for-sale and loans at
fair value 95 220 —
Total nonaccrual loans 403 663 812
Derivative receivables 30 60 130
Assets acquired in
loan satisfactions 70 57 85
Total nonperforming
assets 503 780 1,027
Allowance for credit
losses:   
Allowance for loan
losses 1,202 1,199 1,379
Allowance for
lending-related
commitments 848 754 727
Total allowance for credit
losses 2,050 1,953 2,106
Net charge-off/(recovery)
rate(b) 0.15% 0.08% 0.07%
Allowance for loan losses
to period-end loans
retained 0.99 0.93 1.27
Allowance for loan losses
to period-end loans
retained, excluding trade
finance and conduits(c) 1.31 1.24 1.92
Allowance for loan losses
to nonaccrual loans
retained(a) 390 271 170
Nonaccrual loans to total
period-end loans 0.31 0.47 0.72
(a)Allowance for loan losses of $110 million, $174 million and $316 million
were held against these nonaccrual loans at December 31, 2019, 2018 and
2017, respectively.
(b)Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value were excluded when calculating
the net charge-off/(recovery) rate.
(c)Management uses allowance for loan losses to period-end loans retained,
excluding trade finance and conduits, a non-GAAP financial measure, to
provide a more meaningful assessment of CIB’s allowance coverage ratio.
Investment banking fees    
 Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Advisory $ 2,377 $ 2,509 $ 2,150
Equity underwriting 1,666 1,684 1,468
Debt underwriting(a) 3,532 3,280 3,738
Total investment banking fees $ 7,575 $ 7,473 $ 7,356
(a)Represents long-term debt and loan syndications.
68 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
League table results – wallet share
 2019 2018 2017
Year ended
December 31, Rank Share Rank Share Rank Share
Based on fees(a)     
M&A(b)     
Global # 2 9.2# 2 8.7# 2 8.4
U.S. 2 9.4 2 8.9 2 9.0
Equity and equity-related(c)     
Global 1 9.4 1 9.0 2 7.1
U.S. 1 13.4 1 12.3 1 11.5
Long-term debt(d)     
Global 1 7.8 1 7.2 1 7.8
U.S. 1 12.0 1 11.2 2 11.1
Loan syndications     
Global 1 10.1 1 9.7 1 9.3
U.S. 1 12.8 1 12.3 1 10.9
Global investment banking fees(e) # 1 9.0# 1 8.6# 1 8.1
(a)Source: Dealogic as of January 2, 2020. Reflects the ranking of revenue wallet and market share.
(b)Global M&A excludes any withdrawn transactions. U.S. M&A revenue wallet represents wallet from client parents based in the U.S.
(c)Global equity and equity-related ranking includes rights offerings and Chinese A-Shares.
(d)Long-term debt rankings include investment-grade, high-yield, supranationals, sovereigns, agencies, covered bonds, asset-backed securities (“ABS”) and
mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”); and exclude money market, short-term debt, and U.S. municipal securities.
(e)Global investment banking fees exclude money market, short-term debt and shelf deals.
Markets revenue
The following table summarizes select income statement data
for the Markets businesses. Markets includes both Fixed
Income Markets and Equity Markets. Markets revenue
comprises principal transactions, fees, commissions and other
income, as well as net interest income. The Firm assesses its
Markets business performance on a total revenue basis, as
offsets may occur across revenue line items. For example,
securities that generate net interest income may be risk-
managed by derivatives that are recorded in principal
transactions revenue. Refer to Notes 6 and 7 for a description
of the composition of these income statement line items.
Principal transactions reflects revenue on financial instruments
and commodities transactions that arise from client-driven
market-making activity. Principal transactions revenue
includes amounts recognized upon executing new transactions
with market participants, as well as “inventory-related
revenue”, which is revenue recognized from gains and losses
on derivatives and other instruments that the Firm has been
holding in anticipation of, or in response to, client demand, and changes in the fair value of instruments
used by the Firm to actively manage the risk exposure arising
from such inventory. Principal transactions revenue recognized
upon executing new transactions with market participants is
driven by many factors including the level of client activity,
the bid-offer spread (which is the difference between the price
at which a market participant is willing and able to sell an
instrument to the Firm and the price at which another market
participant is willing and able to buy it from the Firm, and vice
versa), market liquidity and volatility. These factors are
interrelated and sensitive to the same factors that drive
inventory-related revenue, which include general market
conditions, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit
spreads, and equity and commodity prices, as well as other
macroeconomic conditions. 
For the periods presented below, the predominant source of
principal transactions revenue was the amount recognized
upon executing new transactions.
 2019  2018  2017
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except where otherwise
noted)Fixed
Income
MarketsEquity
MarketsTotal
Markets Fixed
Income
MarketsEquity
MarketsTotal
Markets Fixed
Income
MarketsEquity
MarketsTotal
Markets
Principal transactions $ 8,786$ 5,739$14,525 $ 7,560$ 5,566$13,126 $ 7,393$ 3,855$11,248
Lending- and deposit-related fees 198 7 205 197 6 203 191 6 197
Asset management, administration and
commissions 407 1,775 2,182 410 1,794 2,204 390 1,635 2,025
All other income 872 8 880 952 22 974 436 (21) 415
Noninterest revenue 10,263 7,529 17,792 9,119 7,388 16,507 8,410 5,475 13,885
Net interest income(a) 4,155 (1,035) 3,120 3,587 (500) 3,087 4,402 228 4,630
Total net revenue $14,418$ 6,494$20,912 $12,706$ 6,888$19,594 $12,812$ 5,703$18,515
Loss days(b) 1 5  4
(a)The decline in Markets net interest income in 2018 was driven by higher funding costs.
(b)Loss days represent the number of days for which Markets posted losses. The loss days determined under this measure differ from the disclosure of daily market
risk-related gains and losses for the Firm in the value-at-risk (“VaR”) back-testing discussion on pages 121–123.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 69
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Selected metrics    
As of or for the year ended
December 31,
(in millions, except where otherwise noted) 2019 2018 2017
Assets under custody (“AUC”) by asset class (period-end) (in billions):    
Fixed Income $ 13,498 $ 12,440 $ 13,043
Equity 10,100 8,078 7,863
Other(a) 3,233 2,699 2,563
Total AUC $ 26,831 $ 23,217 $ 23,469
Client deposits and other third party liabilities (average)(b) $ 464,770 $ 434,422 $ 408,911
(a)Consists of mutual funds, unit investment trusts, currencies, annuities, insurance contracts, options and other contracts.
(b)Client deposits and other third-party liabilities pertain to the Treasury Services and Securities Services businesses.
International metrics   
As of or for the year ended
December 31,
(in millions, except where otherwise noted) 2019 2018(c) 2017(c)
Total net revenue(a)    
Europe/Middle East/Africa $ 11,718 $ 12,260 $ 11,590
Asia-Pacific 5,330 5,077 4,313
Latin America/Caribbean 1,549 1,473 1,232
Total international net revenue 18,597 18,810 17,135
North America 19,701 17,638 17,522
Total net revenue $ 38,298 $ 36,448 $ 34,657
Loans retained (period-end)(a)    
Europe/Middle East/Africa $ 23,056 $ 24,842 $ 23,689
Asia-Pacific 15,144 17,192 15,385
Latin America/Caribbean 6,189 6,515 5,895
Total international loans 44,389 48,549 44,969
North America 77,344 80,840 63,796
Total loans retained $ 121,733 $ 129,389 $ 108,765
Client deposits and other third-party liabilities (average)(b)    
Europe/Middle East/Africa $ 174,477 $ 162,846 $ 154,654
Asia-Pacific 90,364 82,867 76,673
Latin America/Caribbean 29,027 26,668 25,490
Total international $ 293,868 $ 272,381 $ 256,817
North America 170,902 162,041 152,094
Total client deposits and other third-party liabilities $ 464,770 $ 434,422 $ 408,911
AUC (period-end)(b)
(in billions)    
North America $ 16,855 $ 14,359 $ 13,971
All other regions 9,976 8,858 9,498
Total AUC $ 26,831 $ 23,217 $ 23,469
(a)Total net revenue and loans retained (excluding loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value) are based on the location of the trading desk, booking location, or
domicile of the client, as applicable.
(b)Client deposits and other third-party liabilities pertaining to the Treasury Services and Securities Services businesses, and AUC, are based on the domicile of the
client.
(c)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
70 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
COMMERCIAL  BANKING
Commercial Banking provides comprehensive financial
solutions, including lending, treasury services, investment
banking and asset management products across three
primary client segments: Middle Market Banking,
Corporate Client Banking and Commercial Real Estate
Banking. Other includes amounts not aligned with a
primary client segment.
Middle Market Banking covers small business and
midsized corporations, local governments and nonprofit
clients.
Corporate Client Banking covers large corporations.
Commercial Real Estate Banking covers investors,
developers, and owners of multifamily, office, retail,
industrial and affordable housing properties.
Selected income statement data   
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Revenue   
Lending- and deposit-related fees $ 913$ 870 $ 919
All other income(a) 1,517 1,473 1,603
Noninterest revenue 2,430 2,343 2,522
Net interest income 6,554 6,716 6,083
Total net revenue(b) 8,984 9,059 8,605
Provision for credit losses 296 129 (276)
Noninterest expense   
Compensation expense 1,785 1,694 1,534
Noncompensation expense 1,715 1,692 1,793
Total noninterest expense 3,500 3,386 3,327
Income before income tax expense 5,188 5,544 5,554
Income tax expense 1,264 1,307 2,015
Net income $ 3,924$ 4,237 $ 3,539
(a)Effective in the first quarter of 2019, includes revenue from investment
banking products, commercial card transactions and asset management
fees. The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the
current period presentation.
(b)Total net revenue included tax-equivalent adjustments from income tax
credits related to equity investments in designated community
development entities and in entities established for rehabilitation of
historic properties, as well as tax-exempt income related to municipal
financing activities of $460 million, $444 million and $699 million for the
years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 2019 compared with 2018
Net income was $3.9 billion, a decrease of 7%.
Net revenue was $9.0 billion, a decrease of 1%. Net interest
income was $6.6 billion, a decrease of 2%, predominantly
driven by lower deposit margins. Noninterest revenue was $2.4
billion, an increase of 4%, driven by higher investment
banking revenue, predominantly due to increased equity
underwriting and M&A activity, and growth in lending and
deposit related fees.
Noninterest expense was $3.5 billion, an increase of 3%,
driven by continued investments in the business, largely offset
by lower FDIC charges.
The provision for credit losses was $296 million, up from $129
million in the prior year. The increase in the provision reflects
additions to the allowance for credit losses on select client
downgrades in the current year and higher recoveries in the
prior year.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 71
Management’ s discussion and analysis
CB product revenue consists of the following:
Lending includes a variety of financing alternatives, which are
primarily provided on a secured basis; collateral includes
receivables, inventory, equipment, real estate or other assets.
Products include term loans, revolving lines of credit, bridge
financing, asset-based structures, leases, and standby letters of
credit.
Treasury services includes revenue from a broad range of
products and services that enable CB clients to manage
payments and receipts, as well as invest and manage funds.
Investment banking includes revenue from a range of products
providing CB clients with sophisticated capital-raising
alternatives, as well as balance sheet and risk management tools
through advisory, equity underwriting, and loan syndications.
Revenue from Fixed Income and Equity Markets products used
by CB clients is also included.
Other product revenue primarily includes tax-equivalent
adjustments generated from Community Development Banking
activities and certain income derived from principal
transactions. 
Selected income statement data (continued)
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios) 2019 2018 2017
Revenue by product   
Lending $ 4,057 $ 4,049 $ 4,094
Treasury services 3,920 4,074 3,444
Investment banking(a) 919 852 805
Other 88 84 262
Total Commercial Banking net
revenue $ 8,984 $ 9,059 $ 8,605
Investment banking revenue,
gross(b) $ 2,744 $ 2,491 $ 2,385
Revenue by client segment   
Middle Market Banking $ 3,702 $ 3,708 $ 3,341
Corporate Client Banking 2,994 2,984 2,727
Commercial Real Estate
Banking(c) 2,169 2,249 2,416
Other(c) 119 118 121
Total Commercial Banking net
revenue $ 8,984 $ 9,059 $ 8,605
Financial ratios   
Return on equity 17% 20% 17%
Overhead ratio 39 37 39
(a)Includes CB’s share of revenue from investment banking products sold to
CB clients through the CIB.
(b)Refer to page 60 for a discussion of revenue sharing.
(c)Effective in the first quarter of 2019, client segment data includes
Commercial Real Estate Banking which comprises the former Commercial
Term Lending and Real Estate Banking client segments, and Community
Development Banking (previously part of Other). The prior period
amounts have been revised to conform with the current period
presentation.
72 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Selected metrics
As of or for the year ended
December 31, (in millions,
except headcount) 2019 2018 2017
Selected balance sheet data
(period-end)   
Total assets $ 220,514$ 220,229$ 221,228
Loans:   
Loans retained 207,287 204,219 202,400
Loans held-for-sale and
loans at fair value 1,009 1,978 1,286
Total loans $ 208,296$ 206,197$ 203,686
Core loans 208,181 206,039 203,469
Equity 22,000 20,000 20,000
Period-end loans by client
segment   
Middle Market Banking $ 54,188$ 56,656$ 56,965
Corporate Client Banking 51,165 48,343 46,963
Commercial Real Estate
Banking(a) 101,951 100,088 98,297
Other(a) 992 1,110 1,461
Total Commercial Banking
loans $ 208,296$ 206,197$ 203,686
Selected balance sheet data
(average)   
Total assets $ 218,896$ 218,259$ 217,047
Loans:   
Loans retained 206,837 204,243 197,203
Loans held-for-sale and
loans at fair value 1,082 1,258 909
Total loans $ 207,919$ 205,501$ 198,112
Core loans 207,787 205,320 197,846
Client deposits and other
third-party liabilities 172,734 170,901 177,018
Equity 22,000 20,000 20,000
Average loans by client
segment   
Middle Market Banking $ 55,690$ 57,092$ 55,474
Corporate Client Banking 50,360 47,780 46,037
Commercial Real Estate
Banking(a) 100,884 99,243 95,038
Other(a) 985 1,386 1,563
Total Commercial Banking
loans $ 207,919$ 205,501$ 198,112
Headcount 11,629 11,042 10,061
(a)Effective in the first quarter of 2019, client segment data includes
Commercial Real Estate Banking which comprises the former Commercial
Term Lending and Real Estate Banking client segments, and Community
Development Banking (previously part of Other). The prior period
amounts have been revised to conform with the current period
presentation. 
Selected metrics    
As of or for the year ended
December 31, (in millions,
except ratios) 2019  2018  2017
Credit data and quality
statistics     
Net charge-offs/(recoveries) $ 160 $ 53 $ 39
Nonperforming assets     
Nonaccrual loans:     
Nonaccrual loans retained(a) 498 511 617
Nonaccrual loans held-for-
sale and loans at fair value —  — —
Total nonaccrual loans 498 511 617
Assets acquired in loan
satisfactions 25 2 3
Total nonperforming assets 523 513 620
Allowance for credit losses:     
Allowance for loan losses 2,780 2,682 2,558
Allowance for lending-related
commitments 293 254 300
Total allowance for credit
losses 3,073 2,936 2,858
Net charge-off/(recovery) rate(b) 0.08% 0.03% 0.02%
Allowance for loan losses to
period-end loans retained 1.34 1.31 1.26
Allowance for loan losses to
nonaccrual loans retained(a) 558 525 415
Nonaccrual loans to period-end
total loans 0.24 0.25 0.30
(a)Allowance for loan losses of $114 million, $92 million and $92 million
was held against nonaccrual loans retained at December 31, 2019, 2018
and 2017, respectively.
(b)Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value were excluded when calculating
the net charge-off/(recovery) rate.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 73
Management’ s discussion and analysis
ASSET  & WEAL TH MANAGEMENT
Asset & Wealth Management, with client assets of $3.2
trillion, is a global leader in investment and wealth
management. AWM clients include institutions, high-net-
worth individuals and retail investors in major markets
throughout the world. AWM offers investment
management across most major asset classes including
equities, fixed income, alternatives and money market
funds. AWM also offers multi-asset investment
management, providing solutions for a broad range of
clients’ investment needs. For Wealth Management
clients, AWM also provides retirement products and
services, brokerage and banking services including trusts
and estates, loans, mortgages and deposits. The majority
of AWM’s client assets are in actively managed portfolios.
Selected income statement data
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios
and headcount) 2019 2018 2017
Revenue  
Asset management,
administration and
commissions $10,212 $ 10,171$ 9,856
All other income 604 368 600
Noninterest revenue 10,816 10,539 10,456
Net interest income 3,500 3,537 3,379
Total net revenue 14,316 14,076 13,835
Provision for credit losses 61 53 39
Noninterest expense  
Compensation expense 5,705 5,495 5,317
Noncompensation expense 4,810 4,858 4,901
Total noninterest expense 10,515 10,353 10,218
Income before income tax
expense 3,740 3,670 3,578
Income tax expense 907 817 1,241
Net income $ 2,833 $ 2,853$ 2,337
Revenue by line of business  
Asset Management $ 7,254 $ 7,163$ 7,257
Wealth Management 7,062 6,913 6,578
Total net revenue $14,316 $ 14,076$ 13,835
Financial ratios  
Return on common equity 26% 31% 25%
Overhead ratio 73 74 74
Pre-tax margin ratio:  
Asset Management 26 26 22
Wealth Management 26 26 30
Asset & Wealth Management 26 26 26
Headcount 24,191 23,920 22,975
Number of Wealth Management
client advisors 2,890 2,865 2,605 2019 compared with 2018
Net income was $2.8 billion, a decrease of 1%.
Net revenue was $14.3 billion, an increase of 2%. Net interest
income was $3.5 billion, down 1%, driven by deposit margin
compression, predominantly offset by loan and deposit growth.
Noninterest revenue was $10.8 billion, up 3%, driven by
higher net investment valuation gains and growth in fees on
higher average market levels, partially offset by a shift in the
mix toward lower fee products.
Revenue from Asset Management was $7.3 billion, up 1%,
driven by higher investment valuation gains. The impact on
fees from higher average market levels was more than offset
by a shift in the mix toward lower fee products.
Revenue from Wealth Management was $7.1 billion, up 2%,
driven by loan and deposit growth, growth in fees on the
cumulative impact of net inflows and higher average market
levels and brokerage activity, largely offset by deposit margin
compression.
The provision for credit losses was $61 million, up from $53
million in the prior year, reflecting higher net-charge offs, as
well as net additions to the allowance for loan losses,
predominantly due to loan growth.
Noninterest expense was $10.5 billion, an increase of 2%,
predominantly driven by investments in the business as well as
volume- and revenue-related expenses.
74 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
AWM’s lines of business consist of the following:
Asset Management provides comprehensive global investment services,
including asset management, pension analytics, asset-liability management
and active risk-budgeting strategies.
Wealth Management offers investment advice and wealth management,
including investment management, capital markets and risk management,
tax and estate planning, banking, lending and specialty-wealth advisory
services.
AWM’s client segments consist of the following:
Private Banking clients include high- and ultra-high-net-worth individuals,
families, money managers, business owners and small corporations
worldwide.
Institutional clients include both corporate and public institutions,
endowments, foundations, nonprofit organizations and governments
worldwide.
Retail clients include financial intermediaries and individual investors.
Asset Management has two high-level measures of its
overall fund performance.
• Percentage of mutual fund assets under management in funds rated 4-
or 5-star: Mutual fund rating services rank funds based on their risk-
adjusted performance over various periods. A 5-star rating is the best
rating and represents the top 10% of industry-wide ranked funds. A 4-star
rating represents the next 22.5% of industry-wide ranked funds. A 3-star
rating represents the next 35% of industry-wide ranked funds. A 2-star
rating represents the next 22.5% of industry-wide ranked funds. A 1-star
rating is the worst rating and represents the bottom 10% of industry-wide
ranked funds. The “overall Morningstar rating ” is derived from a weighted
average of the performance associated with a fund’s three-, five- and ten-
year (if applicable) Morningstar Rating metrics. For U.S. domiciled funds,
separate star ratings are given at the individual share class level. The
Nomura “star rating ” is based on three-year risk-adjusted performance
only. Funds with fewer than three years of history are not rated and hence
excluded from this analysis. All ratings, the assigned peer categories and
the asset values used to derive this analysis are sourced from these fund
rating providers mentioned in footnote (a). The data providers re-
denominate the asset values into U.S. dollars. This % of AUM is based on
star ratings at the share class level for U.S. domiciled funds, and at a
“primary share class ” level to represent the star rating of all other funds
except for Japan where Nomura provides ratings at the fund level. The
“primary share class”, as defined by Morningstar, denotes the share class
recommended as being the best proxy for the portfolio and in most cases
will be the most retail version (based upon annual management charge,
minimum investment, currency and other factors). The performance data
could have been different if all funds/accounts would have been included.
Past performance is not indicative of future results.
• Percentage of mutual fund assets under management in funds ranked
in the 1st or 2nd quartile (one, three and five years): All quartile
rankings, the assigned peer categories and the asset values used to derive
this analysis are sourced from the fund ranking providers mentioned in
footnote (b). Quartile rankings are done on the net-of-fee absolute return
of each fund. The data providers re-denominate the asset values into U.S.
dollars. This % of AUM is based on fund performance and associated peer
rankings at the share class level for U.S. domiciled funds and at the
“primary share class” level or fund level for all other funds. The “primary
share class”, as defined by Morningstar, denotes the share class
recommended as being the best proxy for the portfolio and in most cases
will be the most retail version (based upon annual management charge,
minimum investment, currency and other factors). Where peer group
rankings given for a fund are in more than one “primary share class”
territory both rankings are included to reflect local market
competitiveness. The performance data could have been different if all
funds/accounts would have been included. Past performance is not
indicative of future results. 
Selected metrics  
As of or for the year ended
December 31,
(in millions, except ranking
data and ratios) 2019 2018 2017
% of JPM mutual fund
assets rated as 4- or 5-
star(a) 61% 58% 60%
% of JPM mutual fund
assets ranked in 1st or 2nd 
quartile:(b)  
1 year 59 68 64
3 years 77 73 75
5 years 75 85 83
Selected balance sheet
data (period-end)(c)  
Total assets $ 182,004 $ 170,024$ 151,909
Loans 160,535 147,632 130,640
Core loans 160,535 147,632 130,640
Deposits 147,804 138,546 146,407
Equity 10,500 9,000 9,000
Selected balance sheet
data (average)(c)  
Total assets $ 170,764 $ 160,269$ 144,206
Loans 149,655 138,622 123,464
Core loans 149,655 138,622 123,464
Deposits 140,118 137,272 148,982
Equity 10,500 9,000 9,000
Credit data and quality
statistics(c)  
Net charge-offs $ 31$ 10$ 14
Nonaccrual loans 116 263 375
Allowance for credit losses:  
Allowance for loan losses 354 326 290
Allowance for lending-
related commitments 19 16 10
Total allowance for
credit losses 373 342 300
Net charge-off rate 0.02% 0.01% 0.01%
Allowance for loan losses
to period-end loans 0.22 0.22 0.22
Allowance for loan losses
to nonaccrual loans 305 124 77
Nonaccrual loans to period-
end loans 0.07 0.18 0.29
(a)Represents the Nomura “star rating” for Japan domiciled funds and
Morningstar for all other domiciled funds. Includes only Asset
Management retail open-ended mutual funds that have a rating. Excludes
money market funds, Undiscovered Managers Fund, and Brazil domiciled
funds.
(b)Quartile ranking sourced from Lipper, Morningstar, Nomura and Fund
Doctor based on country of domicile. Includes only Asset Management
retail open-ended mutual funds that are ranked by the aforementioned
sources. Excludes money market funds, Undiscovered Managers Fund,
and Brazil domiciled funds.
(c)Loans, deposits and related credit data and quality statistics relate to the
Wealth Management business.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 75
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Client assets
2019 compared with 2018
Client assets were $3.2 trillion, an increase of 18%. Assets
under management were $2.4 trillion, an increase of 19%
driven by the impact of higher market levels and net inflows
into both long-term and liquidity products.
Client assets
December 31,
(in billions) 2019 2018 2017
Assets by asset class
Liquidity $ 542$ 480$ 459
Fixed income 602 464 474
Equity 474 384 428
Multi-asset and alternatives 746 659 673
Total assets under management 2,364 1,987 2,034
Custody/brokerage/
administration/deposits 862 746 755
Total client assets $ 3,226$ 2,733$ 2,789
Memo:
Alternatives client assets(a) $ 185$ 171$ 166
Assets by client segment
Private Banking $ 672$ 552$ 526
Institutional 1,074 926 968
Retail 618 509 540
Total assets under management$ 2,364$ 1,987$ 2,034
Private Banking $ 1,504$ 1,274$ 1,256
Institutional 1,099 946 990
Retail 623 513 543
Total client assets $ 3,226$ 2,733$ 2,789
(a)Represents assets under management, as well as client balances in
brokerage accounts.
Client assets (continued)  
Year ended December 31,
(in billions) 2019 2018 2017
Assets under management
rollforward  
Beginning balance $ 1,987$ 2,034$ 1,771
Net asset flows:  
Liquidity 60 31 9
Fixed income 106 (1) 36
Equity (10) 2 (11)
Multi-asset and alternatives 4 24 43
Market/performance/other impacts 217 (103) 186
Ending balance, December 31 $ 2,364$ 1,987$ 2,034
Client assets rollforward  
Beginning balance $ 2,733$ 2,789$ 2,453
Net asset flows 178 88 93
Market/performance/other impacts 315 (144) 243
Ending balance, December 31 $ 3,226$ 2,733$ 2,789 
International metrics
Year ended December 31,
(in billions, except where otherwise
noted) 2019 2018 2017
Total net revenue (in millions)(a)   
Europe/Middle East/Africa(b) $ 2,869$ 2,850$ 2,837
Asia-Pacific(b) 1,509 1,538 1,405
Latin America/Caribbean(b) 724 755 702
Total international net revenue 5,102 5,143 4,944
North America 9,214 8,933 8,891
Total net revenue $ 14,316$ 14,076$ 13,835
Assets under management    
Europe/Middle East/Africa(b) $ 428$ 366$ 393
Asia-Pacific(b) 192 163 161
Latin America/Caribbean(b) 62 51 51
Total international assets under
management 682 580 605
North America 1,682 1,407 1,429
Total assets under management$ 2,364$ 1,987$ 2,034
Client assets    
Europe/Middle East/Africa(b) $ 520$ 440$ 466
Asia-Pacific(b) 272 226 230
Latin America/Caribbean(b) 147 125 124
Total international client assets 939 791 820
North America 2,287 1,942 1,969
Total client assets $ 3,226$ 2,733$ 2,789
(a)Regional revenue is based on the domicile of the client.
(b)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current
period presentation.
76 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
CORPORA TE
The Corporate segment consists of Treasury and Chief
Investment Office and Other Corporate, which includes
corporate staff functions and expense that is centrally
managed. Treasury and CIO is predominantly
responsible for measuring, monitoring, reporting and
managing the Firm’s liquidity, funding, capital,
structural interest rate and foreign exchange risks. The
major Other Corporate functions include Real Estate,
Technology, Legal, Corporate Finance, Human
Resources, Internal Audit, Risk Management,
Compliance, Control Management, Corporate
Responsibility and various Other Corporate groups.
Selected income statement and balance sheet data
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except
headcount) 2019 2018 2017
Revenue  
Principal transactions $ (461) $ (426)$ 284
Investment securities
gains/(losses) 258 (395) (66)
All other income(a) 89 558 867
Noninterest revenue (114) (263) 1,085
Net interest income 1,325 135 55
Total net revenue(b) 1,211 (128) 1,140
Provision for credit losses (1) (4) —
Noninterest expense(c) 1,067 902 501
Income/(loss) before income
tax expense/(benefit) 145 (1,026) 639
Income tax expense/(benefit) (966) 215 2,282
Net income/(loss) $ 1,111 $ (1,241)$ (1,643)
Total net revenue  
Treasury and CIO 2,032 510 566
Other Corporate (821) (638) 574
Total net revenue $ 1,211 $ (128)$ 1,140
Net income/(loss)  
Treasury and CIO 1,394 (69) 60
Other Corporate (283) (1,172) (1,703)
Total net income/(loss) $ 1,111 $ (1,241)$ (1,643)
Total assets (period-end) $837,618 $771,787 $781,478
Loans (period-end) 1,649 1,597 1,653
Core loans(d) 1,649 1,597 1,653
Headcount 38,033 37,145 34,601
(a)Included revenue related to a legal settlement of $645 million for the year
ended December 31, 2017.
(b)Included tax-equivalent adjustments, driven by tax-exempt income from
municipal bonds, of $ 314 million , $382 million  and $905 million  for the years
ended December 31, 2019 , 2018  and 2017 , respectively . The decrease in
taxable-equivalent adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2018, reflects
the impact of the TCJA.
(c)Included a net legal benefit of $ (214) million , $(241) million  and $(593)
million  for the years ended December 31, 2019 , 2018  and 2017 , respectively .
(d)Average core loans were $1.7 billion , $1.7 billion  and $1.6 billion  for the years
ended December 31, 2019 , 2018  and 2017 , respectively . 
2019 compared with 2018
Net Income was $1.1 billion compared with a net loss of $1.2
billion in the prior year.
Net revenue was $1.2 billion, compared with a net loss of $128
million in the prior year driven by higher net interest income
and noninterest revenue. The increase in net interest income
was driven by balance sheet growth and changes in mix, and
also includes income related to the unwind of the internal
funding provided to CCB upon the sale of certain mortgage
loans. The income reflects the net present value of that funding
and is recognized as a charge to net interest income in CCB.
Refer to CCB on pages 62–65 and FTP on page 61 of this
Form 10-K for further information.
Noninterest revenue increased reflecting:
•investment securities gains, compared with losses in the
prior year, due to the repositioning of the investment
securities portfolio, and
•lower net markdowns on certain legacy private equity
investments,
partially offset by
•market-driven impacts on certain Corporate investments,
and
•higher losses on cash deployment transactions which were
more than offset by the related net interest income earned on
those transactions.
Noninterest expense of $1.1 billion was up $165 million
reflecting higher investments in technology and real estate, and
higher pension costs due to changes to actuarial assumptions
and estimates.
The prior year included a pre-tax loss of $174 million on the
liquidation of a legal entity.
The current period included $1.1 billion of tax benefits related
to the resolution of certain tax audits. The prior year expense
reflected a net benefit of $302 million resulting from changes
in estimates under the TCJA related to the remeasurement of
certain deferred taxes and the deemed repatriation tax on non-
U.S. earnings, which was more than offset by changes to
certain tax reserves and other tax adjustments.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 77
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Treasury and  CIO  overview
Treasury and CIO is predominantly responsible for measuring,
monitoring, reporting and managing the Firm’s liquidity,
funding, capital, structural interest rate and foreign exchange
risks. The risks managed by Treasury and CIO arise from the
activities undertaken by the Firm’s four major reportable
business segments to serve their respective client bases, which
generate both on- and off-balance sheet assets and liabilities.
Treasury and CIO seek to achieve the Firm’s asset-liability
management objectives generally by investing in high-quality
securities that are managed for the longer-term as part of the
Firm’s investment securities portfolio. Treasury and CIO also
use derivatives to meet the Firm’s asset-liability management
objectives. Refer to Note 5 for further information on
derivatives. In addition, Treasury and CIO manage the Firm’s
cash position primarily through deposits at central banks and
investments in short-term instruments. Refer to Liquidity Risk
Management on pages 93–98 for further information on
liquidity and funding risk. Refer to Market Risk Management
on pages 119–126 for information on interest rate, foreign
exchange and other risks.
The investment securities portfolio primarily consists of U.S.
GSE and government agency and nonagency mortgage-backed
securities, U.S. and non-U.S. government securities,
obligations of U.S. states and municipalities, other ABS and
corporate debt securities. At December 31, 2019, the
investment securities portfolio was $396.4 billion, and the
average credit rating of the securities comprising the portfolio
was AA+ (based upon external ratings where available and,
where not available, based primarily upon internal risk ratings.
Refer to Note 10 for further information on the investment
securities portfolio and internal risk ratings. 
Selected income statement and balance sheet data
As of or for the year ended
December 31, (in millions) 2019  2018 2017
Investment securities
gains/(losses) $ 258 $ (395)$ (78)
Available-for-sale (“AFS”)
investment securities
(average) 283,205 203,449 219,345
Held-to-maturity (“HTM”)
investment securities
(average) 34,939 31,747 47,927
Investment securities portfolio
(average) 318,144 235,196 267,272
AFS investment securities
(period-end) 348,876 228,681 200,247
HTM investment securities
(period-end) 47,540 31,434 47,733
Investment securities portfolio
(period–end) 396,416 260,115 247,980
78 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
FIRMWIDE RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk is an inherent part of JPMorgan Chase’s business
activities. When the Firm extends a consumer or wholesale
loan, advises customers and clients on their investment
decisions, makes markets in securities, or offers other products
or services, the Firm takes on some degree of risk. The Firm’s
overall objective is to manage its businesses, and the
associated risks, in a manner that balances serving the interests
of its clients, customers and investors and protects the safety
and soundness of the Firm.
The Firm believes that effective risk management requires,
among other things:
•Acceptance of responsibility, including identification and
escalation of risk issues, by all individuals within the Firm;
•Ownership of risk identification, assessment, data and
management within each of the LOBs and Corporate; and
•Firmwide structures for risk governance.
The Firm strives for continual improvement in its efforts to
enhance controls, ongoing employee training and
development, talent retention, and other measures. The Firm
follows a disciplined and balanced compensation framework
with strong internal governance and independent oversight by
the Board of Directors (the “Board”). The impact of risk and
control issues is carefully considered in the Firm’s
performance evaluation and incentive compensation processes.
Risk governance and oversight framework
The Firm’s risk management governance and oversight
framework involves understanding drivers of risks, types of
risks, and impacts of risks.
Drivers of Risks are factors that cause a risk to exist. Drivers of
risks include the economic environment, regulatory and
government policy, competitor and market evolution, business
decisions, process and judgment error, deliberate wrongdoing,
dysfunctional markets, and natural disasters.
Types of Risks are categories by which risks manifest
themselves. Risks are generally categorized in the following
four risk types:
•Strategic risk is the risk to earnings, capital, liquidity or
reputation associated with poorly designed or failed
business plans or inadequate response to changes in the
operating environment. •Credit and investment risk is the risk associated with the
default or change in credit profile of a client, counterparty
or customer; or loss of principal or a reduction in expected
returns on investments, including consumer credit risk,
wholesale credit risk, and investment portfolio risk.
•Market risk is the risk associated with the effect of changes
in market factors, such as interest and foreign exchange
rates, equity and commodity prices, credit spreads or
implied volatilities, on the value of assets and liabilities
held for both the short and long term.
•Operational risk is the risk associated with an adverse
outcome resulting from inadequate or failed internal
processes or systems; human factors; or external events
impacting the Firm’s processes or systems; it includes
compliance, conduct, legal, and estimations and model risk.
Impacts of Risks are consequences of risks, both quantitative
and qualitative. There may be many consequences of risks
manifesting, such as a reduction in earnings and capital,
liquidity outflows, and fines or penalties, or qualitative impacts
such as reputation damage, loss of clients and customers, and
regulatory and enforcement actions.
The Firm’s risk governance and oversight framework is
managed on a Firmwide basis. The Firm has an Independent
Risk Management (“IRM”) function, which consists of the
Risk Management and Compliance organizations. The Chief
Executive Officer (“CEO”) appoints, subject to approval by
the Risk Committee of the Board (“Board Risk Committee”),
the Firm’s Chief Risk Officer (“CRO”) to lead the IRM
organization and manage the risk governance structure of the
Firm. The framework is subject to approval by the Board Risk
Committee in the form of the primary risk management
policies. The Firm’s CRO oversees and delegates authorities to
LOB CROs, Firmwide Risk Executives (“FREs”), and the
Firm’s Chief Compliance Officer (“CCO”), who each establish
Risk Management and Compliance organizations, set the
Firm’s risk governance policies and standards, and define and
oversee the implementation of the Firm’s risk governance. The
LOB CROs are responsible for risks that arise in their LOBs,
while FREs oversee risk areas that span across the individual
LOB, functions and regions.
Three lines of defense
The Firm relies upon each of its LOBs and Corporate areas
giving rise to risk to operate within the parameters identified
by the IRM function, and within its own management-
identified risk and control standards. Each LOB and Treasury
& CIO, including their aligned Operations, Technology and
Control Management are the Firm’s “first line of defense” and
own the identification of risks, as well as the design and
execution of controls to manage those risks. The first line of
defense is responsible for adherence
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 79
Management’ s discussion and analysis
to applicable laws, rules and regulations and for the
implementation of the risk management structure (which may
include policy, standards, limits, thresholds and controls)
established by IRM.
The IRM function is independent of the businesses and is the
Firm’s “second line of defense.” The IRM function sets and
oversees the risk management structure for Firmwide risk
governance, and independently assesses and challenges the
first line of defense risk management practices. IRM is also
responsible for its own adherence to applicable laws, rules and
regulations and for the implementation of policies and
standards established by IRM with respect to its own
processes.
The Internal Audit function operates independently from other
parts of the Firm and performs independent testing and
evaluation of processes and controls across the Firm as the
“third line of defense.” The Internal Audit Function is headed
by the General Auditor, who reports to the Audit Committee
and administratively to the CEO.
In addition, there are other functions that contribute to the
Firmwide control environment including Finance, Human
Resources, Legal and Control Management. Risk identification and ownership
Each LOB and Corporate area owns the ongoing identification
of risks, as well as the design and execution of controls,
inclusive of IRM-specified controls, to manage those risks. To
support this activity, the Firm has a risk identification process
designed to facilitate their responsibility to identify material
risks inherent to the Firm, catalog them in a central repository
and review the most material risks on a regular basis. The IRM
function reviews and challenges the LOB and Corporate’s
identification of risks, maintains the central repository and
provides the consolidated Firmwide results to the Firmwide
Risk Committee (“FRC”) and Board Risk Committee.
Risk appetite
The Firm’s overall appetite for risk is governed by a “Risk
Appetite” framework. The framework and the Firm’s risk
appetite are set and approved by the Firm’s CEO, Chief
Financial Officer (“CFO”) and CRO. Quantitative parameters
and qualitative factors are used to monitor and measure the
Firm’s capacity to take risk consistent with its stated risk
appetite. Qualitative factors have been established to assess
select operational risks that impact the Firm’s reputation. Risk
Appetite results are reported to the Board Risk Committee.
80 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Risk governance and oversight structure
The independent status of the IRM function is supported by a governance structure that provides for escalation of risk issues to
senior management, the FRC, and the Board of Directors, as appropriate.
The chart below illustrates the Board of Directors’ and key senior management-level committees in the Firm’s risk governance
structure. In addition, there are other committees, forums and paths of escalation that support the oversight of risk which are not
shown in the chart below or described in this Form 10-K.
The Firm’s Operating Committee, which consists of the Firm’s
CEO, CRO, CFO and other senior executives, is accountable
to and may refer matters to the Firm’s Board of Directors. The
Operating Committee is responsible for escalating to the Board
the information necessary to facilitate the Board’s exercise of
its duties.
Board oversight
The Firm’s Board of Directors provides oversight of risk. The
Board Risk Committee is the principal committee that oversees
risk matters. The Audit Committee oversees the control
environment, and the Compensation & Management
Development Committee oversees compensation and other
management-related matters. Each committee of the Board
oversees reputational risks and conduct risks within its scope
of responsibility. 
The JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Board of Directors is
responsible for the oversight of management of the bank. The
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Board accomplishes this function
acting directly and through the principal standing committees
of the Firm’s Board of Directors. Risk and control oversight on
behalf of JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A. is primarily the
responsibility of the Risk Committee and the Audit
Committee, respectively, and, with respect to compensation
and other management-related matters, the Compensation &
Management Development Committee.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 81
Management’ s discussion and analysis
The Board Risk Committee assists the Board in its oversight of
management’s responsibility to implement a global risk
management framework reasonably designed to identify,
assess and manage the Firm’s risks. The Board Risk
Committee’s responsibilities include approval of applicable
primary risk policies and review of certain associated
frameworks, analysis and reporting established by
management. Breaches in risk appetite and parameters, issues
that may have a material adverse impact on the Firm, including
capital and liquidity issues, and other significant risk-related
matters are escalated to the Board Risk Committee, as
appropriate.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight of
management’s responsibility to ensure that there is an effective
system of controls reasonably designed to safeguard the Firm’s
assets and income, ensure the integrity of the Firm’s financial
statements, and maintain compliance with the Firm’s ethical
standards, policies, plans and procedures, and with laws and
regulations. It also assists the Board in its oversight of the
Firm’s independent registered public accounting firm’s
qualifications, independence and performance, and of the
performance of the Firm’s Internal Audit function.
The Compensation & Management Development Committee
(“CMDC”) assists the Board in its oversight of the Firm’s
compensation principles and practices. The CMDC reviews
and approves the Firm’s compensation and benefits programs.
In addition, the Committee reviews Operating Committee
members’ performance against their goals, and approves their
compensation awards. The CMDC also reviews the
development of and succession for key executives, and
provides oversight of the Firm’s culture, including reviewing
updates from management regarding significant conduct issues
and any related employee actions, including compensation
actions.
The Public Responsibility Committee assists the Board in its
oversight of the Firm's positions and practices on public
responsibility matters such as community investment, fair
lending, sustainability, consumer practices and other public
policy issues that reflect the Firm's values and character and
could impact the Firm's reputation among all of its
stakeholders. The Committee also provides guidance on these
matters to management and the Board, as appropriate.
The Corporate Governance & Nominating Committee
exercises general oversight with respect to the governance of
the Board. The Committee evaluates and recommends to the
Board corporate governance practices applicable to the Firm. It
also appraises the framework for assessing the Board’s
performance and self-evaluation. Management oversight
The Firm’s senior management-level committees that are
primarily responsible for key risk-related functions include:
The Firmwide Risk Committee (“FRC”) is the Firm’s highest
management-level risk committee. It provides oversight of the
risks inherent in the Firm’s businesses and serves as an
escalation point for risk topics and issues raised by underlying
committees and/or FRC members.
The Firmwide Control Committee (“FCC”) is an escalation
committee for senior management to review and discuss the
Firmwide operational risk environment including identified
issues, operational risk metrics and significant events that have
been escalated.
The Firmwide Fiduciary Risk Governance Committee
(“FFRGC”) provides oversight of the governance framework
for fiduciary risk or fiduciary-related conflict of interest risk
inherent in each of the Firm’s LOBs. The FFRGC approves
risk or compliance policy exceptions and reviews periodic
reports from the LOBs and control functions including
fiduciary metrics and control trends.
The Firmwide Estimations Risk Committee (“FERC”)
provides oversight of the governance framework for
quantitative and qualitative estimations and models as
specified in the Estimations and Model Risk Management
Policy. The FERC also has responsibility to set the
prioritization of estimations and model risk activities and drive
consistency through review of LOB activities and escalated
issues.
The Conduct Risk Steering Committee (“CRSC”) is
responsible for reviewing, calibrating and consolidating
Firmwide Conduct Risk Appetite and setting overall direction
for the Firm’s Conduct Risk Program.
Line of Business and Regional Risk Committees are
responsible for providing oversight of the governance, limits,
and controls that are in place through the scope of their
activities. These committees review the ways in which the
particular LOB or the business operating in a particular region
could be exposed to adverse outcomes with a focus on
identifying, accepting, escalating and/or requiring remediation
of matters brought to these committees.
Line of Business and Corporate Control Committees oversee
the control environment of their respective business or
function. As part of that mandate, they are responsible for
reviewing indicators of elevated or emerging risks and other
data that may impact the quality and stability of the processes
in a business or function, addressing key operational risk
issues, focusing on processes with control concerns and
overseeing control remediation.
Line of Business Reputation Risk Committees review and
assess transactions, activities and clients that have the potential
for material reputation risk to the Firm.
82 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
The Firmwide Asset and Liability Committee (“ALCO”) is
responsible for overseeing the Firm’s asset and liability
management (“ALM”) activities and the management of
liquidity risk, balance sheet, interest rate risk, and capital risk.
The ALCO is supported by the Treasurer Committee and the
Capital Governance Committee. The Treasurer Committee is
responsible for monitoring the Firm’s overall balance sheet,
liquidity risk and interest rate risk. The Capital Governance
Committee is responsible for overseeing and providing
guidance concerning the effectiveness of the Firm’s capital
framework, capital policies and regulatory capital
implementation.
The Firmwide Valuation Governance Forum (“VGF”) is
composed of senior finance and risk executives and is
responsible for overseeing the management of fair value risks
arising from valuation activities conducted across the Firm. Risk governance and oversight functions
The Firm manages its risk through risk governance and
oversight functions. The scope of a particular function may
include one or more drivers, types and/or impacts of risk. For
example, Country Risk Management oversees country risk
which may be a driver of risk or an aggregation of exposures
that could give rise to multiple risk types such as credit or
market risk.
The following sections discuss the risk governance and
oversight functions in place to manage the risks inherent in the
Firms business activities.
Risk governance and oversight functions Page
Strategic risk
84
Capital risk 85–92
Liquidity risk 93–98
Reputation risk 99
Consumer credit risk
103–107
Wholesale credit risk 108–115
Investment portfolio risk 118
Market risk 119–126
Country risk 127–128
Operational risk 129–135
Compliance risk
132
Conduct risk 133
Legal risk 134
Estimations and Model risk 135
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 83
Management’ s discussion and analysis
STRA TEGIC RISK MANAGEMENT
Strategic risk is the risk to earnings, capital, liquidity or
reputation associated with poorly designed or failed business
plans or inadequate response to changes in the operating
environment.
Management and oversight
The Operating Committee and the senior leadership of each
LOB and Corporate are responsible for managing the Firm’s
most significant strategic risks. Strategic risks are overseen by
IRM through participation in business reviews, LOB and
Corporate senior management committees and other relevant
governance forums and ongoing discussions. The Board of
Directors oversees management’s strategic decisions, and the
Board Risk Committee oversees IRM and the Firm’s risk
management framework.
In the process of developing business plans and strategic
initiatives, LOB and Corporate leadership identify the
associated risks that are incorporated into the Firmwide Risk
Identification process and monitored and assessed as part of
the Firmwide Risk Appetite framework.
In addition, IRM conducts a qualitative assessment of the LOB
and Corporate strategic initiatives to assess their impact on the
risk profile of the Firm. The Firm’s strategic planning process, which includes the
development and execution of strategic initiatives, is one
component of managing the Firm’s strategic risk. Guided by
the Firm’s How We Do Business Principles (the “Principles”),
the Operating Committee and management teams in each LOB
and Corporate review and update the strategic plan
periodically. The process includes evaluating the high-level
strategic framework and performance against prior-year
initiatives, assessing the operating environment, refining
existing strategies and developing new strategies.
These strategic initiatives, along with IRM’s assessment, are
incorporated in the Firm’s budget and provided to the Board
for review. 
The Firm’s balance sheet strategy, which focuses on risk-
adjusted returns, strong capital and robust liquidity, is also a
component in the management of strategic risk. Refer to
Capital Risk Management on pages 85–92 for further
information on capital risk. Refer to Liquidity Risk
Management on pages 93–98 for further information on
liquidity risk. In addition, for further information on reputation
risk, refer to Reputation Risk Management on page 99.
84 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
CAPIT AL RISK MANAGEMENT
Capital risk is the risk the Firm has an insufficient level or
composition of capital to support the Firm’s business activities
and associated risks during normal economic environments
and under stressed conditions.
A strong capital position is essential to the Firm’s business
strategy and competitive position. Maintaining a strong
balance sheet to manage through economic volatility is
considered a strategic imperative of the Firm’s Board of
Directors, CEO and Operating Committee. The Firm’s fortress
balance sheet philosophy focuses on risk-adjusted returns,
strong capital and robust liquidity. The Firm’s capital risk
management strategy focuses on maintaining long-term
stability to enable the Firm to build and invest in market-
leading businesses, including in highly stressed environments.
Senior management considers the implications on the Firm’s
capital prior to making any significant decisions that could
impact future business activities. In addition to considering the
Firm’s earnings outlook, senior management evaluates all
sources and uses of capital with a view to ensuring the Firm’s
capital strength.
Capital management oversight
The Firm has a Capital Management Oversight function whose
primary objective is to provide independent assessment,
measuring, monitoring and control of capital risk across the
Firm.
Capital Management Oversight’s responsibilities include:
•Defining, monitoring and reporting capital risk metrics;
•Establishing, calibrating and monitoring capital risk limits
and indicators, including capital risk appetite;
•Developing a process to classify, monitor and report limit
breaches; and
•Performing an independent assessment of the Firm’s capital
management activities, including changes made to the
contingency capital plan described below.
In addition, the Basel Independent Review function (“BIR”),
which is a part of the IRM function, conducts independent
assessments of the Firm’s regulatory capital framework. These
assessments are intended to ensure compliance with the
applicable regulatory capital rules in support of senior
management’s responsibility for managing capital and for the
Board Risk Committee’s oversight of management in
executing that responsibility.
Capital management
Treasury & CIO is responsible for capital management.
The primary objectives of effective capital management are to:
•Maintain sufficient capital in order to continue to build and
invest in the Firm’s businesses through the cycle and in
stressed environments;
•Retain flexibility to take advantage of future investment
opportunities; •Promote the Firm’s ability to serve as a source of strength
to its subsidiaries;
•Ensure the Firm operates above the minimum regulatory
capital ratios as well as maintain “well-capitalized” status
for the Firm and its insured depository institution (“IDI”)
subsidiaries at all times under applicable regulatory capital
requirements;
•Meet capital distribution objectives; and
•Maintain sufficient capital resources to operate throughout
a resolution period in accordance with the Firm’s preferred
resolution strategy.
The Firm addresses these objectives through establishing
internal minimum capital requirements and a strong capital
management governance framework, both in business as usual
conditions and in the event of stress.
Capital risk management is intended to be flexible in order to
react to a range of potential events. In its management of
capital, the Firm takes into consideration economic risk and all
applicable regulatory capital requirements to determine the
level of capital needed.
The Firm considers regulatory capital requirements as well as
an internal assessment of capital adequacy, in normal
economic cycles and in stress events, when setting its
minimum capital levels. The capital governance framework
requires regular monitoring of the Firm’s capital positions,
stress testing and defining escalation protocols, both at the
Firm and material legal entity levels.
Governance
Committees responsible for overseeing the Firm’s capital
management include the Capital Governance Committee, the
Treasurer Committee and the Firmwide ALCO. Capital
management oversight is governed through the CIO, Treasury
and Corporate (“CTC”) risk committee. In addition, the Board
Risk Committee periodically reviews the Firm’s capital risk
tolerance. Refer to Firmwide Risk Management on pages 79–
83 for additional discussion on the Board Risk Committee and
the ALCO.
Capital planning and stress testing
Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review
The Federal Reserve requires large bank holding companies,
including the Firm, to submit on an annual basis a capital plan
that has been reviewed and approved by the Board of
Directors. The Federal Reserve uses Comprehensive Capital
Analysis and Review (“CCAR”) and other stress testing
processes to ensure that large bank holding companies
(“BHC”) have sufficient capital during periods of economic
and financial stress, and have robust, forward-looking capital
assessment and planning processes in place that address each
BHC’s unique risks to enable it to absorb losses under certain
stress scenarios. Through CCAR, the Federal Reserve
evaluates each BHC’s capital adequacy and internal capital
adequacy assessment processes (“ICAAP”), as well as its plans
to make capital distributions, such as dividend payments or
stock repurchases.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 85
Management’ s discussion and analysis
On June 27, 2019, the Federal Reserve informed the Firm that
it did not object to the Firm’s 2019 capital plan. Refer to
Capital actions on pages 90-91 for information on actions
taken by the Firm’s Board of Directors following the 2019
CCAR results.
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process
Annually, the Firm prepares the ICAAP, which informs the
Board of Directors of the ongoing assessment of the Firm’s
processes for managing the sources and uses of capital as well
as compliance with supervisory expectations for capital
planning and capital adequacy. The Firm’s ICAAP integrates
stress testing protocols with capital planning.
The CCAR and other stress testing processes assess the
potential impact of alternative economic and business
scenarios on the Firm’s earnings and capital. Economic
scenarios, and the parameters underlying those scenarios, are
defined centrally and applied uniformly across the businesses.
These scenarios are articulated in terms of macroeconomic
factors, which are key drivers of business results; global
market shocks, which generate short-term but severe trading
losses; and idiosyncratic operational risk events. The scenarios
are intended to capture and stress key vulnerabilities and
idiosyncratic risks facing the Firm. However, when defining a
broad range of scenarios, actual events can always be worse.
Accordingly, management considers additional stresses outside
these scenarios, as necessary. These results are reviewed by
management and the Board of Directors.
Contingency capital plan
The Firm’s contingency capital plan establishes the capital
management framework for the Firm and specifies the
principles underlying the Firm’s approach towards capital
management in normal economic conditions and during stress.
The contingency capital plan defines how the Firm calibrates
its targeted capital levels and meets minimum capital
requirements, monitors the ongoing appropriateness of planned
capital distributions, and sets out the capital contingency
actions that are expected to be taken or considered at various
levels of capital depletion during a period of stress.
Regulatory capital
The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements,
including well-capitalized standards, for the consolidated
financial holding company. The Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency (“OCC”) establishes similar minimum capital
requirements for the Firm’s IDI subsidiaries, including
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. The U.S. capital requirements
generally follow the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee,
as amended from time to time.
Basel III Overview
The capital rules under Basel III establish minimum capital
ratios and overall capital adequacy standards for large and
internationally active U.S. BHCs and banks, including the
Firm and its IDI subsidiaries, including JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A. The minimum amount of regulatory capital that
must be held by BHCs and banks is determined by calculating
risk-weighted assets (“RWA”), which are on- balance sheet assets and off-balance sheet exposures, weighted
according to risk. Two comprehensive approaches are
prescribed for calculating RWA: a standardized approach
(“Basel III Standardized”), and an advanced approach (“Basel
III Advanced”). Effective January 1, 2019, the capital
adequacy of the Firm is evaluated against the fully phased-in
measures under Basel III and represents the lower of the
Standardized or Advanced approaches. During 2018, the
required capital measures were subject to the transitional rules
and as of December 31, 2018 the results were the same on a
fully phased-in and on a transitional basis.
Basel III establishes capital requirements for calculating credit
risk RWA and market risk RWA, and in the case of Basel III
Advanced, operational risk RWA. Key differences in the
calculation of credit risk RWA between the Standardized and
Advanced approaches are that for Basel III Advanced, credit
risk RWA is based on risk-sensitive approaches which largely
rely on the use of internal credit models and parameters,
whereas for Basel III Standardized, credit risk RWA is
generally based on supervisory risk-weightings which vary
primarily by counterparty type and asset class. Market risk
RWA is calculated on a generally consistent basis between
Basel III Standardized and Basel III Advanced. In addition to
the RWA calculated under these approaches, the Firm may
supplement such amounts to incorporate management
judgment and feedback from its regulators.
Basel III also includes a requirement for Advanced Approach
banking organizations, including the Firm, to calculate the
SLR. Refer to SLR on page 90 for additional information.
Key Regulatory Developments
Effective January 1, 2020, the Firm adopted the Financial
Instruments – Credit Losses (“CECL”) guidance under U.S.
GAAP. As provided by the U.S. banking agencies, the Firm
elected to phase-in the impact to retained earnings of $2.7
billion to regulatory capital, at 25 percent per year in each of
2020 to 2023 (“CECL transitional period”). Based on the
Firm’s capital as of December 31, 2019, the estimated impact
to the Standardized CET1 capital ratio will be a reduction of
approximately 4 bps for each transitional year. Refer to
Accounting and Reporting Developments on pages 139-140
and Note 1 for further information.
86 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Risk-based Capital Regulatory Minimums
The following chart presents the Firm’s Basel III minimum CET1 capital ratio during the Basel III transitional periods and on a
fully phased-in basis under the Basel III rules currently in effect.
The Firm’s Basel III Standardized risk-based ratios are
currently more binding than the Basel III Advanced risk-based
ratios, and the Firm expects that this will remain the case for
the foreseeable future.
Additional information regarding the Firm’s capital ratios, as
well as the U.S. federal regulatory capital standards to which
the Firm is subject, is presented in Note 27. Refer to the Firm’s
Pillar 3 Regulatory Capital Disclosures reports, which are
available on the Firm’s website, for further information on the
Firm’s Basel III measures.
All banking institutions are currently required to have a
minimum CET1 capital ratio of 4.5% of risk-weighted assets.
Certain banking organizations, including the Firm, are also
required to hold additional amounts of capital to serve as a
“capital conservation buffer”. The capital conservation buffer
is intended to be used to absorb losses in times of financial or
economic stress. The capital conservation buffer was subject to
a phase-in period that began January 1, 2016 and continued
through the end of 2018.
As an expansion of the capital conservation buffer, the Firm is
also required to hold additional levels of capital in the form of
a global systemically important bank (“GSIB”) surcharge and
a countercyclical capital buffer.
Under the Federal Reserve’s GSIB rule, the Firm is required to
calculate its GSIB surcharge on an annual basis under two
separately prescribed methods, and is subject to the higher of
the two. The first (“Method 1”), reflects the GSIB surcharge as
prescribed by the Basel Committee’s assessment methodology,
and is calculated across five criteria: size, cross-jurisdictional
activity, interconnectedness, complexity and substitutability.
The second (“Method 2”), modifies the Method 1 requirements
to include a measure of short-term wholesale funding in place
of substitutability, and introduces a GSIB score “multiplication factor”. The following table presents the Firm’s
GSIB surcharge.
 2019 2018
Fully Phased-In:   
Method 1 2.50% 2.50%
Method 2 3.50% 3.50%
Transitional(a) N/A 2.625%
(a)The GSIB surchar ge was subject to transition provisions (in 25% increments)
through the end of 2018.
The Firm’s effective regulatory minimum GSIB surcharge
calculated under Method 2 remains unchanged at 3.5% for
2020.
The Federal Reserve's framework for setting the
countercyclical capital buffer takes into account the macro
financial environment in which large, internationally active
banks function. As of December 31, 2019, the U.S.
countercyclical capital buffer remained at 0%. The Federal
Reserve will continue to review the buffer at least annually.
The buffer can be increased if the Federal Reserve, FDIC and
OCC determine that systemic risks are meaningfully above
normal and can be calibrated up to an additional 2.5% of RWA
subject to a 12-month implementation period.
Failure to maintain regulatory capital equal to or in excess of
the risk-based regulatory capital minimum plus the capital
conservation buffer (inclusive of the GSIB surcharge) and any
countercyclical buffer may result in limitations to the amount
of capital that the Firm may distribute, such as through
dividends and common equity repurchases.
Leverage-based Capital Regulatory Minimums
Supplementary leverage ratio
The SLR is defined as Tier 1 capital under Basel III divided by
the Firm’s total leverage exposure. Total leverage exposure is
calculated by taking the Firm’s total average on-balance sheet
assets, less amounts permitted to be
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 87
Management’ s discussion and analysis
deducted for Tier 1 capital, and adding certain off-balance
sheet exposures, such as undrawn commitments and
derivatives potential future exposure.
Failure to maintain an SLR ratio equal to or greater than the
regulatory minimum may result in limitations on the amount of
capital that the Firm may distribute such as through dividends
and common equity repurchases.
Other regulatory capital In addition to meeting the capital ratio requirements of Basel
III, the Firm and its IDI subsidiaries also must maintain
minimum capital and leverage ratios in order to be “well-
capitalized” under the regulations issued by the Federal
Reserve and the Prompt Corrective Action (“PCA”)
requirements of the FDIC Improvement Act (“FDICIA”),
respectively. Refer to Note 27 for additional information.
The following tables present the Firm’s risk-based and leverage-based capital measures under both the Basel III Standardized and
Advanced approaches.
 December  31, 2019 December 31, 2018  
(in millions) Standardized AdvancedMinimum
capital ratios Standardized (b) Advanced (b) Minimum
capital ratios  
Risk-based capital metrics:       
CET1 capital $ 187,753 $ 187,753 $ 183,474 $ 183,474    
Tier 1 capital 214,432 214,432 209,093 209,093    
Total capital 242,589 232,1 12 237,51 1 227,435    
Risk-weighted assets 1,515,869 1,397,878 1,528,916 1,421,205    
CET1 capital ratio 12.4% 13.4% 10.5% 12.0% 12.9% 9.0% 
Tier 1 capital ratio 14.1 15.3 12.0 13.7 14.7  10.5  
Total capital ratio 16.0 16.6 14.0 15.5 16.0  12.5  
Leverage-based capital metrics:       
Adjusted average assets (a) $ 2,730,239 $ 2,730,239 $ 2,589,887 $ 2,589,887    
Tier 1 leverage ratio 7.9% 7.9% 4.0% 8.1% 8.1% 4.0% 
Total leverage exposure NA $ 3,423,431 NA $ 3,269,988    
SLR NA 6.3% 5.0%(c) NA 6.4% 5.0%(c) 
(a)Adjusted average assets, for purposes of calculating the Tier 1 leverage ratio, includes total quarterly average assets adjusted for on-balance sheet assets that are
subject to deduction from Tier 1 capital, predominantly goodwill and other intangible assets.
(b)The Firm’s capital ratios as of December 31, 2018 were equivalent whether calculated on a transitional or fully phased-in basis.
(c)Represents minimum SLR requirement of 3.0%, as well as supplementary leverage buffer of 2.0%.
The Firm believes that it will operate with a Basel III CET1 capital ratio between 11.5% and 12% over the medium term.
88 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Capital components
The following table presents reconciliations of total
stockholders’ equity to Basel III CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital
and Total capital as of December 31, 2019 and 2018.
(in millions)December 31,
2019December 31,
2018
Total stockholders’ equity $ 261,330$ 256,515
Less: Preferred stock 26,993 26,068
Common stockholders’ equity 234,337 230,447
Less:  
Goodwill 47,823 47,471
Other intangible assets 819 748
Other CET1 capital adjustments 323 1,034
Add:  
Certain deferred tax liabilities(a) 2,381 2,280
Standardized/Advanced CET1 capital 187,753 183,474
Preferred stock 26,993 26,068
Less: Other Tier 1 adjustments 314 449
Standardized/Advanced Tier 1 capital 214,432 209,093
Long-term debt and other instruments
qualifying as Tier 2 capital 13,733 13,772
Qualifying allowance for credit losses 14,314 14,500
Other 110 146
Standardized Tier 2 capital 28,157 28,418
Standardized Total capital 242,589 237,511
Adjustment in qualifying allowance for
credit losses for Advanced Tier 2
capital (10,477) (10,076)
Advanced Tier 2 capital 17,680 18,342
Advanced Total capital $ 232,112$ 227,435
(a)Represents deferred tax liabilities related to tax-deductible goodwill and to
identifiable intangibles created in nontaxable transactions, which are
netted against goodwill and other intangibles when calculating CET1
capital. Capital rollforward
The following table presents the changes in Basel III CET1
capital, Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital for the year ended
December 31, 2019.
Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2019
Standardized/Advanced CET1 capital at December 31, 2018 $ 183,474
Net income applicable to common equity 34,844
Dividends declared on common stock (10,897)
Net purchase of treasury stock (22,555)
Changes in additional paid-in capital (640)
Changes related to AOCI 2,904
Adjustment related to DVA(a) 1,103
Changes related to other CET1 capital adjustments (480)
Change in Standardized/Advanced CET1 capital 4,279
Standardized/Advanced CET1 capital at
December 31, 2019 187,753
 
Standardized/Advanced Tier 1 capital at
December 31, 2018 209,093
Change in CET1 capital 4,279
Net issuance of noncumulative perpetual preferred stock 925
Other 135
Change in Standardized/Advanced Tier 1 capital 5,339
Standardized/Advanced Tier 1 capital at
December 31, 2019 214,432
 
Standardized Tier 2 capital at December 31, 2018 28,418
Change in long-term debt and other instruments qualifying as
Tier 2 (39)
Change in qualifying allowance for credit losses (186)
Other (36)
Change in Standardized Tier 2 capital (261)
Standardized Tier 2 capital at December 31, 2019 28,157
Standardized Total capital at December 31, 2019 242,589
Advanced Tier 2 capital at December 31, 2018 18,342
Change in long-term debt and other instruments qualifying as
Tier 2 (39)
Change in qualifying allowance for credit losses (587)
Other (36)
Change in Advanced Tier 2 capital (662)
Advanced Tier 2 capital at December 31, 2019 17,680
Advanced Total capital at December 31, 2019 $ 232,112
(a)Includes DVA related to structured notes recorded in AOCI.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 89
Management’ s discussion and analysis
RWA rollforward
The following table presents changes in the components of RWA under Basel III Standardized and Advanced approaches for the
year ended December 31, 2019. The amounts in the rollforward categories are estimates, based on the predominant driver of the
change.
 Standardized  Advanced
Year ended December 31, 2019
(in millions) Credit risk RWAMarket risk
RWA Total RWA Credit risk RWAMarket risk
RWAOperational risk
RWA Total RWA
December 31, 2018 $ 1,423,053$ 105,863$ 1,528,916 $ 926,647$ 105,976$ 388,582$ 1,421,205
Model & data changes(a) (6,406) (24,433) (30,839) (34,584) (24,433) — (59,017)
Portfolio runoff(b) (5,800) — (5,800) (5,500) — — (5,500)
Movement in portfolio levels(c) 29,373 (5,781) 23,592 46,385 (5,891) 696 41,190
Changes in RWA 17,167 (30,214) (13,047) 6,301 (30,324) 696 (23,327)
December 31, 2019 $ 1,440,220$ 75,649$ 1,515,869 $ 932,948$ 75,652$ 389,278$ 1,397,878
(a)Model & data changes refer to material movements in levels of R WA as a result of revised methodologies and/or treatment per regulatory guidance (exclusive of rule
changes); and an update to the wholesale credit risk Advanced Approach parameters.
(b)Portfolio runof f for credit risk R WA primarily reflects  reduced risk from position rollof fs in legacy portfolios in  Home Lending .
(c)Movement in portfolio levels (inclusive of rule changes) refers to: changes in book size, composition, credit quality , and market movements for credit risk R WA; changes
in position and market movements for market risk R WA; and updates to cumulative losses for operational risk R WA.
Supplementary leverage ratio
The following table presents the components of the Firm’s
SLR as of December 31, 2019 and 2018.
(in millions, except ratio)December 31,
2019December 31,
2018
Tier 1 capital $ 214,432 $ 209,093
Total average assets 2,777,270$ 2,636,505
Less: Adjustments for deductions
from Tier 1 capital 47,031 46,618
Total adjusted average assets(a) 2,730,239 2,589,887
Off-balance sheet exposures(b) 693,192 680,101
Total leverage exposure $ 3,423,431$ 3,269,988
SLR 6.3% 6.4%
(a)Adjusted average assets, for purposes of calculating the SLR, includes
total quarterly average assets adjusted for on-balance sheet assets that are
subject to deduction from Tier 1 capital, predominantly goodwill and other
intangible assets.
(b)Off-balance sheet exposures are calculated as the average of the three
month-end spot balances during the reporting quarter.
Refer to Note 27 for JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.’s SLR
ratios.
Line of business equity
Each business segment is allocated capital by taking into
consideration a variety of factors including capital levels of
similarly rated peers and applicable regulatory capital
requirements. ROE is measured and internal targets for
expected returns are established as key measures of a business
segment’s performance.
The Firm’s allocation methodology incorporates Basel III
Standardized RWA, Basel III Advanced RWA, leverage, the
GSIB surcharge, and a simulation of capital in a severe stress
environment. Periodically, the assumptions and methodologies
used to allocate capital are assessed and as a result, the capital
allocated to the LOBs may change.  The Firm will assess
impacts from any regulatory changes to the capital framework
as changes are finalized.  
The table below presents the Firm’s assessed level of capital
allocated to each LOB as of the dates indicated. 
Line of business equity (Allocated capital)
 December 31,
(in billions)January 1,
 2020 2019 2018
Consumer & Community Banking $ 52.0$ 52.0$ 51.0
Corporate & Investment Bank 80.0 80.0 70.0
Commercial Banking 22.0 22.0 20.0
Asset & Wealth Management 10.5 10.5 9.0
Corporate(a) 67.1 69.8 80.4
Total common stockholders’ equity$ 231.6$ 234.3$ 230.4
(a)Includes the $2.7 billion (after-tax) impact to retained earnings upon the
adoption of CECL on January 1, 2020.
Capital actions
Preferred stock
Preferred stock dividends declared were $1.6 billion for the
year ended December 31, 2019.
During the year ended December 31, 2019 and through the
date of filing of the 2019 Form 10-K, the Firm issued and
redeemed several series of non-cumulative preferred stock.
Refer to Note 21 for additional information on the Firm’s
preferred stock, including issuances and redemptions.
Common stock dividends
The Firm’s common stock dividends are planned as part of the
Capital Management governance framework in line with the
Firm’s capital management objectives.
On September 17, 2019, the Firm announced that its Board of
Directors had declared a quarterly common stock dividend of
$0.90 per share, an increase from $0.80 per share, effective
with the dividend paid on October 31, 2019. The Firm’s
dividends are subject to the Board of Directors’ approval on a
quarterly basis.
Refer to Note 21 and Note 26 for information regarding
dividend restrictions.
90 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
The following table shows the common dividend payout ratio
based on net income applicable to common equity.
Year ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017
Common dividend payout ratio 31% 30% 33%
Common equity
The Firm’s Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of
up to $29.4 billion of gross common equity between July 1,
2019 and June 30, 2020 as part of the Firm’s annual capital
plan. As of December 31, 2019, $15.6 billion of authorized
repurchase capacity remained under this common equity
repurchase program.
The following table sets forth the Firm’s repurchases of
common equity for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018
and 2017.
Year ended December 31, (in millions)  2019 2018 2017
Total number of shares of common
stock repurchased  213.0 181.5 166.6
Aggregate purchase price of common
stock repurchases  $24,121 $19,983 $15,410
The Firm from time to time enters into written trading plans
under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to
facilitate repurchases in accordance with the common equity
repurchase program. A Rule 10b5-1 repurchase plan allows the
Firm to repurchase its equity during periods when it may
otherwise not be repurchasing common equity — for example,
during internal trading blackout periods.
The authorization to repurchase common equity is utilized at
management’s discretion, and the timing of purchases and the
exact amount of common equity that may be repurchased is
subject to various factors, including market conditions; legal
and regulatory considerations affecting the amount and timing
of repurchase activity; the Firm’s capital position (taking into
account goodwill and intangibles); internal capital generation;
and alternative investment opportunities. The repurchase
program does not include specific price targets or timetables;
may be executed through open market purchases or privately
negotiated transactions, or utilizing Rule 10b5-1 plans; and
may be suspended by management at any time.
Refer to Part II, Item 5: Market for Registrant’s Common
Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities on page 30 of the 2019 Form 10-K for
additional information regarding repurchases of the Firm’s
equity securities.
Other capital requirements
Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity (“TLAC”)
Effective January 1, 2019, the Federal Reserve’s TLAC rule
requires the U.S. GSIB top-tier holding companies, including
JPMorgan Chase & Co., to maintain minimum levels of
external TLAC and eligible long-term debt (“eligible LTD”). The minimum external TLAC and the minimum level of
eligible long-term debt requirements are shown below:
(a) RWA is the greater of Standardized and Advanced.
Failure to maintain TLAC equal to or in excess of the
regulatory minimum plus applicable buffers may result in
limitations to the amount of capital that the Firm may
distribute, such as through dividends and common equity
repurchases.
The following table presents the eligible external TLAC and
LTD amounts, as well as a representation of the amounts as a
percentage of the Firm’s total RWA and total leverage
exposure.    
December 31, 2019
(in billions, except ratio)Eligible external
TLAC Eligible LTD
Total eligible TLAC & LTD $ 386.4$ 161.8
% of RWA 25.5% 10.7%
Minimum requirement 23.0 9.5
Surplus/(shortfall) $ 37.7$ 17.8
% of total leverage exposure 11.3% 4.7%
Minimum requirement 9.5 4.5
Surplus/(shortfall) $ 61.2$ 7.8
Refer to Part I, Item 1A: Risk Factors on pages 6–28 of the
2019 Form 10-K for information on the financial consequences
to holders of the Firm’s debt and equity securities in a
resolution scenario.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 91
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Broker-dealer regulatory capital
J.P. Morgan Securities
JPMorgan Chase’s principal U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary is
J.P. Morgan Securities. J.P. Morgan Securities is subject to
Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the
“Net Capital Rule”). J.P. Morgan Securities is also registered
as a futures commission merchant and subject to the Rules of
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”).
J.P. Morgan Securities has elected to compute its minimum net
capital requirements in accordance with the “Alternative Net
Capital Requirements” of the Net Capital Rule.
The following table presents J.P. Morgan Securities’ net
capital:
December  31, 2019  
(in millions) Actual Minimum
Net Capital $ 21,050$ 3,751
In addition to its alternative minimum net capital requirements,
J.P. Morgan Securities is required to hold “tentative net
capital” in excess of $1.0 billion and is also required to notify
the SEC in the event that its tentative net capital is less than
$5.0 billion. Tentative net capital is net capital before
deducting market and credit risk charges as defined by the Net
Capital Rule. As of December 31, 2019, J.P. Morgan Securities
maintained tentative net capital in excess of the minimum and
notification requirements. J.P. Morgan Securities plc
J.P. Morgan Securities plc is a wholly-owned subsidiary of
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and has authority to engage in
banking, investment banking and broker-dealer activities.
J.P. Morgan Securities plc is jointly regulated by the U.K.
Prudential Regulation Authority (“PRA”) and the Financial
Conduct Authority (“FCA”). J.P. Morgan Securities plc is
subject to the European Union Capital Requirements
Regulation and the PRA capital rules, each of which
implemented Basel III and thereby subject J.P. Morgan
Securities plc to its requirements.
The Bank of England requires, on a transitional basis, that
U.K. banks, including U.K. regulated subsidiaries of overseas
groups, maintain a minimum requirement for own funds and
eligible liabilities (“MREL”). As of December 31, 2019, J.P.
Morgan Securities plc was compliant with the requirements of
the MREL rule.
The following table presents J.P. Morgan Securities plc’s
capital metrics:
December  31, 2019
(in millions, except ratios) Estimated Minimum ratios
Total capital $ 52,983
CET1 ratio 16.5% 4.5%
Total capital ratio 21.3% 8.0%
92 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
LIQUIDITY  RISK MANAGEMENT
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Firm will be unable to meet
its contractual and contingent financial obligations as they
arise or that it does not have the appropriate amount,
composition and tenor of funding and liquidity to support its
assets and liabilities.
Liquidity risk oversight
The Firm has a liquidity risk oversight function whose primary
objective is to provide independent assessment, measurement,
monitoring, and control of liquidity risk across the Firm.
Liquidity Risk Oversight’s responsibilities include:
•Defining, monitoring and reporting liquidity risk metrics;
•Establishing and monitoring limits and indicators,
including Liquidity Risk Appetite;
•Developing a process to classify, monitor and report limit
breaches;
•Performing an independent review of liquidity risk
management processes;
•Monitoring and reporting internal firmwide and legal entity
liquidity stress tests as well as regulatory defined liquidity
stress tests;
•Approving or escalating for review new or updated
liquidity stress assumptions; and
•Monitoring liquidity positions, balance sheet variances and
funding activities;
Liquidity management
Treasury and CIO is responsible for liquidity management.
The primary objectives of effective liquidity management are
to:
•Ensure that the Firm’s core businesses and material legal
entities are able to operate in support of client needs and
meet contractual and contingent financial obligations
through normal economic cycles as well as during stress
events, and
•Manage an optimal funding mix and availability of
liquidity sources.
As part of the Firm’s overall liquidity management strategy,
the Firm manages liquidity and funding using a centralized,
global approach in order to:
•Optimize liquidity sources and uses;
•Monitor exposures;
•Identify constraints on the transfer of liquidity between the
Firm’s legal entities; and  
•Maintain the appropriate amount of surplus liquidity at a
firmwide and legal entity level, where relevant.
In the context of the Firm’s liquidity management, Treasury
and CIO is responsible for:
•Analyzing and understanding the liquidity characteristics of
the assets and liabilities of the Firm, LOBs and legal
entities, taking into account legal, regulatory, and
operational restrictions; •Developing internal liquidity stress testing assumptions;
•Defining and monitoring firmwide and legal entity-specific
liquidity strategies, policies, reporting and contingency
funding plans;
•Managing liquidity within the Firm’s approved liquidity
risk appetite tolerances and limits;
•Managing compliance with regulatory requirements related
to funding and liquidity risk; and
•Setting transfer pricing in accordance with underlying
liquidity characteristics of balance sheet assets and
liabilities as well as certain off-balance sheet items.
Governance
Committees responsible for liquidity governance include the
firmwide ALCO as well as LOB and regional ALCOs, the
Treasurer Committee, and the CTC Risk Committee. In
addition, the Board Risk Committee reviews and recommends
to the Board of Directors, for formal approval, the Firm’s
liquidity risk tolerances, liquidity strategy, and liquidity policy.
Refer to Firmwide Risk Management on pages 79–83 for
further discussion of ALCO and other risk-related committees.
Internal stress testing
Liquidity stress tests are intended to ensure that the Firm has
sufficient liquidity under a variety of adverse scenarios,
including scenarios analyzed as part of the Firm’s resolution
and recovery planning. Stress scenarios are produced for
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“Parent Company”) and the Firm’s
material legal entities on a regular basis, and other stress tests
are performed in response to specific market events or
concerns. Liquidity stress tests assume all of the Firm’s
contractual financial obligations are met and take into
consideration:
•Varying levels of access to unsecured and secured funding
markets,
•Estimated non-contractual and contingent cash outflows,
and
•Potential impediments to the availability and transferability
of liquidity between jurisdictions and material legal entities
such as regulatory, legal or other restrictions.
Liquidity outflow assumptions are modeled across a range of
time horizons and currency dimensions and contemplate both
market and idiosyncratic stresses.
Results of stress tests are considered in the formulation of the
Firm’s funding plan and assessment of its liquidity position.
The Parent Company acts as a source of funding for the Firm
through equity and long-term debt issuances, and its
intermediate holding company, JPMorgan Chase Holdings
LLC (the “IHC”) provides funding support to the ongoing
operations of the Parent Company and its subsidiaries. The
Firm maintains liquidity at the Parent Company, IHC, and
operating subsidiaries at levels sufficient to comply with
liquidity risk tolerances and minimum
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 93
Management’ s discussion and analysis
liquidity requirements, and to manage through periods of stress
when access to normal funding sources may be disrupted.
Contingency funding plan
The Firm’s contingency funding plan (“CFP”), which is
approved by the firmwide ALCO and the Board Risk
Committee, is a compilation of procedures and action plans for
managing liquidity through stress events. The CFP
incorporates the limits and indicators set by the Liquidity Risk
Oversight group. These limits and indicators are reviewed
regularly to identify emerging risks or vulnerabilities in the
Firm’s liquidity position. The CFP identifies the alternative
contingent funding and liquidity resources available to the
Firm and its legal entities in a period of stress.
Liquidity Coverage Ratio
The LCR rule requires that the Firm maintain an amount of
unencumbered High Quality Liquid Assets (“HQLA”) that is
sufficient to meet its estimated total net cash outflows over a
prospective 30 calendar-day period of significant stress. HQLA
is the amount of liquid assets that qualify for inclusion in the
LCR. HQLA primarily consist of unencumbered cash and
certain high-quality liquid securities as defined in the LCR
rule.
Under the LCR rule, the amount of HQLA held by JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. that is in excess of its stand-alone 100%
minimum LCR requirement, and that is not transferable to
non-bank affiliates, must be excluded from the Firm’s reported
HQLA.
Estimated net cash outflows are based on standardized stress
outflow and inflow rates prescribed in the LCR rule, which are
applied to the balances of the Firm’s assets, sources of funds,
and obligations. The LCR is required to be a minimum of
100%.
The following table summarizes the Firm’s average LCR for
the three months ended December 31, 2019, September 30,
2019 and December 31, 2018 based on the Firm’s
interpretation of the finalized LCR framework.
 Three months ended
Average amount
(in millions)December 31,
2019September 30,
2019December 31,
2018
HQLA   
Eligible cash(a) $ 203,296 $ 199,757$ 297,069
Eligible securities(b)
(c) 341,990 337,704 232,201
Total HQLA(d) $ 545,286 $ 537,461$ 529,270
Net cash outflows $ 469,402 $ 468,452$ 467,704
LCR 116% 115% 113%
Net excess HQLA
(d) $ 75,884 $ 69,009$ 61,566
(a)Represents cash on deposit at central banks, primarily the Federal Reserve
Banks.
(b)Predominantly U.S. Treasuries, U.S. GSE and government agency MBS,
and sovereign bonds net of applicable haircuts under the LCR rule.
(c)HQLA eligible securities may be reported in securities borrowed or
purchased under resale agreements, trading assets, or investment securities
on the Firm’s Consolidated balance sheets.
(d)Excludes average excess HQLA at JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. that are
not transferable to non-bank affiliates. The Firm’s average LCR increased during the three months
ended December 31, 2019, compared with both the three-
month periods ended September 30, 2019 and December 31,
2018, due to an increase in HQLA from unsecured long-term
debt issuances. Additionally, liquidity in JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A. increased during the fourth quarter and from the
prior year period primarily due to growth in stable deposits.
This increase in excess liquidity is excluded from the Firm’s
reported LCR under the LCR rule.
The Firm’s average LCR fluctuates from period to period,
due to changes in its HQLA and estimated net cash outflows
as a result of ongoing business activity. Refer to the Firm’s
U.S. LCR Disclosure reports, which are available on the
Firm’s website for a further discussion of the Firm’s LCR.
Other liquidity sources
In addition to the assets reported in the Firm’s HQLA above,
the Firm had unencumbered marketable securities, such as
equity securities and fixed income debt securities, that the
Firm believes would be available to raise liquidity of
approximately $315 billion and $226 billion as of December
31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. This includes securities
included as part of the excess liquidity at JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A. that are not transferable to non-bank affiliates, as
described above. The amount of such securities increased from
the prior year.
The Firm also had available borrowing capacity at FHLBs and
the discount window at the Federal Reserve Bank as a result of
collateral pledged by the Firm to such banks of approximately
$322 billion and $276 billion as of December 31, 2019 and
2018, respectively. This borrowing capacity excludes the
benefit of cash and securities reported in the Firm’s HQLA or
other unencumbered securities that are currently pledged at the
Federal Reserve Bank discount window and other central
banks. Available borrowing capacity increased from the prior
year primarily as a result of an increase in collateral available
to be pledged as a result of the merger of Chase Bank USA,
N.A. with and into JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and an
increase in available collateral as a result of maturities of
borrowings from FHLBs. Although available, the Firm does
not view this borrowing capacity at the Federal Reserve Bank
discount window and the other central banks as a primary
source of liquidity.
94 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Funding
Sources of funds
Management believes that the Firm’s unsecured and secured
funding capacity is sufficient to meet its on- and off-balance
sheet obligations.
The Firm funds its global balance sheet through diverse sources
of funding including stable deposits, secured and unsecured
funding in the capital markets and stockholders’ equity. Deposits
are the primary funding source for JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Additionally, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. may also access
funding through short- or long-term secured borrowings, through the issuance of unsecured long-term debt,
or from borrowings from the Parent company or the IHC. The
Firm’s non-bank subsidiaries are primarily funded from long-
term unsecured borrowings and short-term secured borrowings,
primarily securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements.
Excess funding is invested by Treasury and CIO in the Firm’s
investment securities portfolio or deployed in cash or other
short-term liquid investments based on their interest rate and
liquidity risk characteristics.
Deposits
The table below summarizes, by LOB, the period-end and average deposit balances as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019
and 2018.
As of or for the year ended December 31,   Average
(in millions) 2019 2018  2019 2018
Consumer & Community Banking $ 718,416$ 678,854 $ 693,550$ 670,388
Corporate & Investment Bank 511,843 482,084 515,913 477,250
Commercial Banking 184,115 170,859 172,666 170,822
Asset & Wealth Management 147,804 138,546 140,118 137,272
Corporate 253 323 820 729
Total Firm $ 1,562,431$ 1,470,666 $ 1,523,067$ 1,456,461
Deposits provide a stable source of funding and reduce the
Firm’s reliance on the wholesale funding markets. A significant
portion of the Firm’s deposits are consumer deposits and
wholesale operating deposits, which are both considered to be
stable sources of liquidity. Wholesale operating deposits are
considered to be stable sources of liquidity because they are
generated from customers that maintain operating service
relationships with the Firm.
The table below shows the loan and deposit balances, the loans-
to-deposits ratios, and deposits as a percentage of total
liabilities, as of December 31, 2019 and 2018.
As of December 31,
(in billions except ratios) 
2019 2018
Deposits $ 1,562.4$ 1,470.7
Deposits as a % of total liabilities 64% 62%
Loans 959.8 984.6
Loans-to-deposits ratio 61% 67% The Firm believes that average deposit balances are generally
more representative of deposit trends than period-end deposit
balances.
Average deposits across the Firm increased for the year ended
December 31, 2019.
The increase in CIB reflects growth in operating deposits driven
by client activity, primarily in Treasury Services, and an
increase in client-driven net issuances of structured notes in
Markets. The increase in CCB was driven by continued growth
in new accounts. The increases in AWM and CB were primarily
driven by growth in interest-bearing deposits; for AWM, the
growth was partially offset by migration, predominantly into the
Firm’s investment-related products.
Refer to the discussion of the Firm’s Business Segment Results
and the Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis on pages 60–78
and pages 52–53, respectively, for further information on
deposit and liability balance trends.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 95
Management’ s discussion and analysis
The following table summarizes short-term and long-term funding, excluding deposits, as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, and
average balances for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. Refer to the Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis on pages
52–53 and Note 20 for additional information.
Sources of funds (excluding deposits)   
As of or for the year ended December 31,   Average
(in millions) 2019 2018  2019 2018
Commercial paper $ 14,754$ 30,059 $ 22,977$ 27,834
Other borrowed funds 7,544 8,789 10,369 11,369
Total short-term unsecured funding $ 22,298$ 38,848 $ 33,346$ 39,203
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase(a) $ 175,709$ 171,975 $ 217,807$ 177,629
Securities loaned(a) 5,983 9,481 8,816 10,692
Other borrowed funds(b) 18,622 30,428 26,050 24,320
Obligations of Firm-administered multi-seller conduits(c) 9,223 4,843 10,929 3,396
Total short-term secured funding $ 209,537$ 216,727 $ 263,602$ 216,037
Senior notes $ 166,185$ 162,733 $ 168,546$ 153,162
Trust preferred securities — — — 471
Subordinated debt 17,591 16,743 17,387 16,178
Structured notes(d) 74,724 53,090 65,487 49,640
Total long-term unsecured funding $ 258,500$ 232,566 $ 251,420$ 219,451
Credit card securitization(c) $ 6,461$ 13,404 $ 9,707$ 15,900
FHLB advances 28,635 44,455 34,143 52,121
Other long-term secured funding(e) 4,363 5,010 4,643 4,842
Total long-term secured funding $ 39,459$ 62,869 $ 48,493$ 72,863
Preferred stock(f) $ 26,993$ 26,068 $ 27,511$ 26,249
Common stockholders’ equity(f) $ 234,337$ 230,447 $ 232,907$ 229,222
(a)Primarily consists of short-term securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase.
(b)There were no FHLB advances with original maturities of less than one year as of December 31, 2019 . As of December 31, 2018 , includes FHLB advances with original
maturities of less than one year of $11.4 billion .
(c)Included in beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities on the Firm’ s Consolidated balance sheets.
(d)Includes certain TLAC-eligible long-term unsecured debt issued by the Parent Company .
(e)Includes long-term structured notes which are secured.
(f)Refer to Capital Risk Management on pages 85–92 , Consolidated statements of changes in stockholders’  equity on page 149 , and Note 21 and Note 22 for additional
information on preferred stock and common stockholders’  equity .
Short-term funding
The Firm’s sources of short-term secured funding primarily
consist of securities loaned or sold under agreements to
repurchase. These instruments are secured predominantly by
high-quality securities collateral, including government-issued
debt, U.S. GSE and government agency MBS. Securities
loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase were relatively
flat at December 31, 2019, compared with December 31, 2018,
as the net increase from the Firm’s participation in the Federal
Reserve’s open market operations was offset by client-driven
activities, and lower secured financing of trading assets-debt
instruments, all in CIB.
The balances associated with securities loaned or sold under
agreements to repurchase fluctuate over time due to customers’
investment and financing activities, the Firm’s demand for
financing, the ongoing management of the mix of the Firm’s
liabilities, including its secured and unsecured financing (for
both the investment securities and market-making portfolios),
and other market and portfolio factors. 
The Firm’s sources of short-term unsecured funding primarily
consist of issuance of wholesale commercial paper. The
decrease in commercial paper at December 31, 2019, from
December 31, 2018, was due to lower net issuance primarily
for short-term liquidity management.
Long-term funding and issuance
Long-term funding provides additional sources of stable
funding and liquidity for the Firm. The Firm’s long-term
funding plan is driven primarily by expected client activity,
liquidity considerations, and regulatory requirements,
including TLAC. Long-term funding objectives include
maintaining diversification, maximizing market access and
optimizing funding costs. The Firm evaluates various funding
markets, tenors and currencies in creating its optimal long-term
funding plan.
96 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
The significant majority of the Firm’s long-term unsecured funding is issued by the Parent Company to provide flexibility in
support of both bank and non-bank subsidiary funding needs. The Parent Company advances substantially all net funding proceeds
to its subsidiary, the IHC. The IHC does not issue debt to external counterparties. The following table summarizes long-term
unsecured issuance and maturities or redemptions for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. Refer to Note 20 for additional
information on long-term debt.
Long-term unsecured funding    
Year ended December 31, 2019 2018  2019 2018
(Notional in millions) Parent Company  Subsidiaries
Issuance    
Senior notes issued in the U.S. market $ 14,000$ 22,000 $ 1,750$ 9,562
Senior notes issued in non-U.S. markets 5,867 1,502 — —
Total senior notes 19,867 23,502 1,750 9,562
Structured notes(a) 5,844 2,444 33,563 25,410
Total long-term unsecured funding – issuance $ 25,711$ 25,946 $ 35,313$ 34,972
Maturities/redemptions    
Senior notes $ 18,098$ 19,141 $ 5,367$ 4,466
Subordinated debt 183 136 — —
Structured notes 2,944 2,678 19,271 15,049
Total long-term unsecured funding – maturities/redemptions $ 21,225$ 21,955 $ 24,638$ 19,515
(a)Includes certain TLAC-eligible long-term unsecured debt issued by the Parent Company.
The Firm can also raise secured long-term funding through securitization of consumer credit card loans and advances from the
FHLBs. The following table summarizes the securitization issuance and FHLB advances and their respective maturities or
redemptions for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.
Long-term secured funding  
Year ended December 31, Issuance Maturities/Redemptions
(in millions) 2019 2018 2019 2018
Credit card securitization $ —$ 1,396 $ 6,975$ 9,250
FHLB advances — 9,000 15,817 25,159
Other long-term secured funding(a) 204 377 927 289
Total long-term secured funding $ 204$ 10,773 $ 23,719$ 34,698
(a)Includes long-term structured notes which are secured.
The Firm’s wholesale businesses also securitize loans for client-driven transactions; those client-driven loan securitizations are not
considered to be a source of funding for the Firm and are not included in the table above. Refer to Note 14 for further description of
the client-driven loan securitizations.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 97
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Credit ratings
The cost and availability of financing are influenced by
credit ratings. Reductions in these ratings could have an
adverse effect on the Firm’s access to liquidity sources,
increase the cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or
funding requirements and decrease the number of investors
and counterparties willing to lend to the Firm. The nature
and magnitude of the impact of ratings downgrades
depends on numerous contractual and behavioral factors, which the Firm believes are incorporated in its liquidity risk
and stress testing metrics. The Firm believes that it
maintains sufficient liquidity to withstand a potential
decrease in funding capacity due to ratings downgrades.
Additionally, the Firm’s funding requirements for VIEs and
other third- party commitments may be adversely affected by a
decline in credit ratings.
The credit ratings of the Parent Company and the Firm’s principal bank and non-bank subsidiaries as of December 31, 2019, were
as follows.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.(a)J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
J.P. Morgan Securities plc
December 31, 2019Long-term
issuerShort-term
issuer Outlook Long-term
issuerShort-term
issuer OutlookLong-term
issuerShort-term
issuer Outlook
Moody’s Investors Service A2 P-1 Stable  Aa2 P-1 Stable Aa3 P-1 Stable
Standard & Poor’s A- A-2 Stable  A+ A-1 Stable A+ A-1 Stable
Fitch Ratings AA- F1+ Stable  AA F1+ Stable AA F1+ Stable
(a)On May 18, 2019, Chase Bank USA, N.A. merged with and into JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as the surviving bank. The
credit rating for JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. reflects the credit rating of the merged entity.
JPMorgan Chase’s unsecured debt does not contain
requirements that would call for an acceleration of payments,
maturities or changes in the structure of the existing debt,
provide any limitations on future borrowings or require
additional collateral, based on unfavorable changes in the
Firm’s credit ratings, financial ratios, earnings, or stock price.
Critical factors in maintaining high credit ratings include a
stable and diverse earnings stream, strong capital and liquidity ratios, strong credit quality and risk management
controls, and diverse funding sources. Rating agencies
continue to evaluate economic and geopolitical trends,
regulatory developments, future profitability, risk management
practices, and litigation matters, as well as their broader ratings
methodologies. Changes in any of these factors could lead to
changes in the Firm’s credit ratings.
98 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
REPUT ATION RISK MANAGEMENT
Reputation risk is the risk that an action or inaction may
negatively impact the Firm’s integrity and reduce confidence
in the Firm’s competence held by various constituents,
including clients, counterparties, customers, investors,
regulators, employees, communities or the broader public.
Organization and management
Reputation Risk Management is an independent risk
management function that establishes the governance
framework for managing reputation risk across the Firm. As
reputation risk is inherently difficult to identify, manage, and
quantify, an independent reputation risk management
governance function is critical.
The Firm’s reputation risk management function includes the
following activities:
•Establishing a Firmwide Reputation Risk Governance
policy and standards consistent with the reputation risk
framework
•Managing the governance infrastructure and processes that
support consistent identification, escalation, management
and monitoring of reputation risk issues Firmwide
•Providing guidance to LOB Reputation Risk Offices
(“RRO”), as appropriate
The types of events that give rise to reputation risk are broad
and could be introduced in various ways, including by the
Firm’s employees and the clients, customers and counterparties
with which the Firm does business. These events could result
in financial losses, litigation and regulatory fines, as well as
other damages to the Firm. Governance and oversight
The Firm’s Reputation Risk Governance policy establishes the
principles for managing reputation risk for the Firm. It is the
responsibility of employees in each LOB and Corporate to
consider the reputation of the Firm when deciding whether to
offer a new product, engage in a transaction or client
relationship, enter a new jurisdiction, initiate a business
process or other matters. Increasingly, sustainability, social
responsibility and environmental impacts are important
considerations in assessing the Firm’s reputation risk, and are
considered as part of reputation risk governance.
Reputation risk issues deemed material are escalated as
appropriate.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 99
Management’ s discussion and analysis
CREDIT  AND INVESTMENT  RISK MANAGEMENT
Credit and investment risk is the risk associated with the
default or change in credit profile of a client, counterparty or
customer; or loss of principal or a reduction in expected
returns on investments, including consumer credit risk,
wholesale credit risk, and investment portfolio risk.
Credit risk management
Credit risk is the risk associated with the default or change in
credit profile of a client, counterparty or customer. The Firm
provides credit to a variety of customers, ranging from large
corporate and institutional clients to individual consumers and
small businesses. In its consumer businesses, the Firm is
exposed to credit risk primarily through its home lending,
credit card, auto, and business banking businesses. In its
wholesale businesses, the Firm is exposed to credit risk
through its underwriting, lending, market-making, and hedging
activities with and for clients and counterparties, as well as
through its operating services activities (such as cash
management and clearing activities), securities financing
activities, investment securities portfolio, and cash placed with
banks.
Credit Risk Management is an independent risk management
function that monitors, measures and manages credit risk
throughout the Firm and defines credit risk policies and
procedures. The Firm’s credit risk management governance
includes the following activities:
•Establishing a credit risk policy framework
•Monitoring, measuring and managing credit risk across all
portfolio segments, including transaction and exposure
approval
•Setting industry and geographic concentration limits, as
appropriate, and establishing underwriting guidelines
•Assigning and managing credit authorities in connection
with the approval of credit exposure
•Managing criticized exposures and delinquent loans
•Estimating credit losses and ensuring appropriate credit risk-
based capital management Risk identification and measurement
The Credit Risk Management function monitors, measures,
manages and limits credit risk across the Firm’s businesses. To
measure credit risk, the Firm employs several methodologies
for estimating the likelihood of obligor or counterparty default.
Methodologies for measuring credit risk vary depending on
several factors, including type of asset (e.g., consumer versus
wholesale), risk measurement parameters (e.g., delinquency
status and borrower’s credit score versus wholesale risk-rating)
and risk management and collection processes (e.g., retail
collection center versus centrally managed workout groups).
Credit risk measurement is based on the probability of default
of an obligor or counterparty, the loss severity given a default
event and the exposure at default.
Based on these factors and the methodology and estimates
described in Note 13, the Firm estimates credit losses for its
exposures. The allowance for loan losses reflects credit losses
related to the consumer and wholesale held-for-investment
loan portfolios, and the allowance for lending-related
commitments reflects credit losses related to the Firm’s
lending-related commitments. Refer to Note 13 and Critical
Accounting Estimates used by the Firm on pages 136-138 for
further information.
In addition, potential and unexpected credit losses are reflected
in the allocation of credit risk capital and represent the
potential volatility of actual losses relative to the established
allowances for loan losses and lending-related commitments.
The analyses for these losses include stress testing that
considers alternative economic scenarios as described in the
Stress testing section below.
Stress testing
Stress testing is important in measuring and managing credit
risk in the Firm’s credit portfolio. The process assesses the
potential impact of alternative economic and business
scenarios on estimated credit losses for the Firm. Economic
scenarios and the underlying parameters are defined centrally,
articulated in terms of macroeconomic factors and applied
across the businesses. The stress test results may indicate
credit migration, changes in delinquency trends and potential
losses in the credit portfolio. In addition to the periodic stress
testing processes, management also considers additional
stresses outside these scenarios, including industry and
country- specific stress scenarios, as necessary. The Firm uses
stress testing to inform decisions on setting risk appetite both
at a Firm and LOB level, as well as to assess the impact of
stress on individual counterparties.
100 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Risk monitoring and management
The Firm has developed policies and practices that are
designed to preserve the independence and integrity of the
approval and decision-making process of extending credit to
ensure credit risks are assessed accurately, approved properly,
monitored regularly and managed actively at both the
transaction and portfolio levels. The policy framework
establishes credit approval authorities, concentration limits,
risk-rating methodologies, portfolio review parameters and
guidelines for management of distressed exposures. In
addition, certain models, assumptions and inputs used in
evaluating and monitoring credit risk are independently
validated by groups that are separate from the LOBs.
Consumer credit risk is monitored for delinquency and other
trends, including any concentrations at the portfolio level, as
certain of these trends can be modified through changes in
underwriting policies and portfolio guidelines. Consumer Risk
Management evaluates delinquency and other trends against
business expectations, current and forecasted economic
conditions, and industry benchmarks. Historical and forecasted
economic performance and trends are incorporated into the
modeling of estimated consumer credit losses and are part of
the monitoring of the credit risk profile of the portfolio.
Wholesale credit risk is monitored regularly at an aggregate
portfolio, industry, and individual client and counterparty level
with established concentration limits that are reviewed and
revised periodically as deemed appropriate by management.
Industry and counterparty limits, as measured in terms of
exposure and economic risk appetite, are subject to stress-
based loss constraints. In addition, wrong-way risk, that is the
risk that exposure to a counterparty is positively correlated
with the impact of a default by the same counterparty, which
could cause exposure to increase at the same time as the
counterparty’s capacity to meet its obligations is decreasing - is
actively monitored as this risk could result in greater exposure
at default compared with a transaction with another
counterparty that does not have this risk.
Management of the Firm’s wholesale credit risk exposure is
accomplished through a number of means, including:
•Loan underwriting and credit approval process
•Loan syndications and participations
•Loan sales and securitizations
•Credit derivatives
•Master netting agreements
•Collateral and other risk-reduction techniques In addition to Credit Risk Management, an independent Credit
Review function is responsible for:
•Independently validating or changing the risk grades
assigned to exposures in the Firm’s wholesale and
commercial-oriented retail credit portfolios, and assessing
the timeliness of risk grade changes initiated by responsible
business units; and
•Evaluating the effectiveness of business units’ credit
management processes, including the adequacy of credit
analyses and risk grading/LGD rationales, proper monitoring
and management of credit exposures, and compliance with
applicable grading policies and underwriting guidelines.
Refer to Note 12 for further discussion of consumer and
wholesale loans.
Risk reporting
To enable monitoring of credit risk and effective decision-
making, aggregate credit exposure, credit quality forecasts,
concentration levels and risk profile changes are reported
regularly to senior members of Credit Risk Management.
Detailed portfolio reporting of industry, clients, counterparties
and customers, product and geography are prepared, and the
appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is reviewed
by senior management at least on a quarterly basis. Through
the risk reporting and governance structure, credit risk trends
and limit exceptions are provided regularly to, and discussed
with, risk committees, senior management and the Board of
Directors as appropriate.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 101
Management’ s discussion and analysis
CREDIT  POR TFOLIO
Credit risk is the risk associated with the default or change
in credit profile of a client, counterparty or customer.
In the following tables, reported loans include loans retained
(i.e., held-for-investment); loans held-for-sale; and certain
loans accounted for at fair value. The following tables do not
include loans which the Firm accounts for at fair value and
classifies as trading assets; refer to Notes 2 and 3 for further
information regarding these loans. Refer to Notes 12, 28, and 5
for additional information on the Firm’s loans, lending-related
commitments and derivative receivables, including the Firm’s
accounting policies.
Refer to Note 10 for information regarding the credit risk
inherent in the Firm’s investment securities portfolio; and refer
to Note 11 for information regarding credit risk inherent in the
securities financing portfolio. Refer to Consumer Credit
Portfolio on pages 103–107 and Note 12 for a further
discussion of the consumer credit environment and consumer
loans. Refer to Wholesale Credit Portfolio on pages 108–115
and Note 12 for a further discussion of the wholesale credit
environment and wholesale loans. 
Total credit portfolio   
December 31,
(in millions)Credit exposure  Nonperforming(d)(e)
2019
2018  2019
2018
Loans retained $ 945,601$ 969,415 $ 3,983$ 4,611
Loans held-for-sale 7,064 11,988 7 —
Loans at fair value 7,104 3,151 90 220
Total loans – reported 959,769 984,554 4,080 4,831
Derivative receivables 49,766 54,213 30 60
Receivables from
customers and other(a) 33,706 30,217 — —
Total credit-related
assets 1,043,241 1,068,984 4,110 4,891
Assets acquired in
loan satisfactions   
Real estate owned NA NA 344 269
Other NA NA 43 30
Total assets acquired
in loan satisfactions NA NA 387 299
Lending-related
commitments 1,106,247 1,039,258 474 469
Total credit portfolio$ 2,149,488$ 2,108,242 $ 4,971$ 5,659
Credit derivatives used
in credit portfolio
management
activities(b) $ (18,030)$ (12,682) $ —$ —
Liquid securities and
other cash collateral
held against
derivatives(c) (16,009) (15,322) NA NA
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)2019
2018
Net charge-offs $ 5,629 $ 4,856
Average retained loans  
Loans 941,919 936,829
Loans – reported, excluding
  residential real estate PCI loans 919,702 909,386
Net charge-off rates  
Loans 0.60% 0.52%
Loans – excluding PCI0.61 0.53
(a)Receivables from customers and other primarily represents brokerage-
related held-for-investment customer receivables.
(b)Represents the net notional amount of protection purchased and sold
through credit derivatives used to manage both performing and
nonperforming wholesale credit exposures; these derivatives do not
qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP. Refer to Credit
derivatives on page 115 and Note 5 for additional information.
(c)Includes collateral related to derivative instruments where appropriate
legal opinions have not been either sought or obtained with respect to
master netting agreements.
(d)Excludes PCI loans. The Firm is recognizing interest income on each pool
of PCI loans as each of the pools is performing.
(e)At December 31, 2019 and 2018, nonperforming assets excluded mortgage
loans 90 or more days past due and insured by U.S. government agencies
of $961 million and $2.6 billion, respectively, and real estate owned
(“REO”) insured by U.S. government agencies of $41 million and $75
million, respectively. These amounts have been excluded based upon the
government guarantee. In addition, the Firm’s policy is generally to
exempt credit card loans from being placed on nonaccrual status as
permitted by regulatory guidance issued by the Federal Financial
Institutions Examination Council (“FFIEC”).
102 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
CONSUMER CREDIT  POR TFOLIO
The Firm’s retained consumer portfolio consists primarily of
residential real estate loans, credit card loans, auto loans, and
business banking loans, as well as associated lending-related
commitments. The Firm’s focus is on serving primarily the
prime segment of the consumer credit market. Originated
mortgage loans are retained in the mortgage portfolio,
securitized or sold to U.S. government agencies and U.S.
government-sponsored enterprises; other types of consumer
loans are typically retained on the balance sheet. The credit
performance of the consumer portfolio continues to benefit
from discipline in credit underwriting as well as improvement
in the economy driven by low unemployment and increasing
home prices. Refer to Note 12 for further information on the
consumer loan portfolio. Refer to Note 28 for further
information on lending-related commitments.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 103
Management’ s discussion and analysis
The following table presents consumer credit-related information with respect to the credit portfolio held by CCB, scored prime
mortgage and scored home equity loans held by AWM, and scored prime mortgage loans held by Corporate. Refer to Note 12 for
further information about the Firm’s nonaccrual and charge-off accounting policies.
Consumer credit portfolio
As of or for the year ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)Credit exposure  Nonaccrual loans(f)(g) Net charge-
offs/(recoveries)(h)Net charge-off/(recovery)
rate(h)(i)
2019 2018  2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
Consumer, excluding credit card     
Loans, excluding PCI loans and loans held-for-sale     
Residential mortgage $ 199,037 $ 231,078 $ 1,618$ 1,765 $ (44)$ (291) (0.02)% (0.13)%
Home equity 23,917 28,340 1,162 1,323 (46) (5) (0.18) (0.02)
Auto(a)(b) 61,522 63,573 113 128 206 243 0.33 0.38
Consumer & Business Banking(b)(c) 27,199 26,612 247 245 296 236 1.11 0.90
Total loans, excluding PCI loans and loans held-for-
sale 311,675 349,603 3,140 3,461 412 183 0.13 0.05
Loans – PCI     
Home equity 7,377 8,963 NA NA NA NA NA NA
Prime mortgage 3,965 4,690 NA NA NA NA NA NA
Subprime mortgage 1,740 1,945 NA NA NA NA NA NA
Option ARMs 7,281 8,436 NA NA NA NA NA NA
Total loans – PCI 20,363 24,034 NA NA NA NA NA NA
Total loans – retained 332,038 373,637 3,140 3,461 412 183 0.12 0.05
Loans held-for-sale 3,002 95 2 — NA NA NA NA
Total consumer, excluding credit card loans 335,040 373,732 3,142 3,461 412 183 0.12 0.05
Lending-related commitments(d) 51,412 46,066   
Receivables from customers — 154   
Total consumer exposure, excluding credit card 386,452 419,952   
Credit Card     
Loans retained(e) 168,924 156,616 — — 4,848 4,518 3.10 3.10
Loans held-for-sale — 16 — — NA NA NA NA
Total credit card loans 168,924 156,632 — — 4,848 4,518 3.10 3.10
Lending-related commitments(d) 650,720 605,379   
Total credit card exposure 819,644 762,011   
Total consumer credit portfolio $ 1,206,096 $ 1,181,963 $ 3,142$ 3,461 $ 5,260$ 4,701 1.04 % 0.90 %
Memo: Total consumer credit portfolio, excluding PCI $ 1,185,733 $ 1,157,929 $ 3,142$ 3,461 $ 5,260$ 4,701 1.09 % 0.95 %
(a)At December 31, 2019 and 2018, excluded operating lease assets of $22.8 billion and $20.5 billion, respectively. These operating lease assets are included in
other assets on the Firm’s Consolidated balance sheets. Refer to Note 18 for further information.
(b)Includes certain business banking and auto dealer risk-rated loans for which the wholesale methodology is applied for determining the allowance for loan losses;
these loans are managed by CCB, and therefore, for consistency in presentation, are included within the consumer portfolio.
(c)Predominantly includes Business Banking loans.
(d)Credit card and home equity lending-related commitments represent the total available lines of credit for these products. The Firm has not experienced, and does
not anticipate, that all available lines of credit would be used at the same time. For credit card commitments, and if certain conditions are met, home equity
commitments, the Firm can reduce or cancel these lines of credit by providing the borrower notice or, in some cases as permitted by law, without notice. Refer
to Note 28 for further information.
(e)Includes billed interest and fees net of an allowance for uncollectible interest and fees.
(f)At December 31, 2019 and 2018, nonaccrual loans excluded mortgage loans 90 or more days past due and insured by U.S. government agencies of $961 million
and $2.6 billion, respectively. These amounts have been excluded from nonaccrual loans based upon the government guarantee. In addition, the Firm’s policy is
generally to exempt credit card loans from being placed on nonaccrual status, as permitted by regulatory guidance issued by the FFIEC.
(g)Excludes PCI loans. The Firm is recognizing interest income on each pool of PCI loans as each of the pools is performing.
(h)Net charge-offs/(recoveries) and net charge-off/(recovery) rates excluded write-offs in the PCI portfolio of $151 million and $187 million for the years ended
December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. These write-offs decreased the allowance for loan losses for PCI loans. Refer to Allowance for Credit Losses on
pages 116–117 for further information.
(i)Average consumer loans held-for-sale were $2.9 billion and $387 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. These amounts were
excluded when calculating net charge-off/(recovery) rates.
104 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Consumer , excluding cr edit card
Portfolio analysis
Loan balances decreased from December 31, 2018 due to
lower residential real estate loans, predominantly driven by
loan sales.
The following discussions provide information concerning
individual loan products, excluding PCI loans which are
addressed separately. Refer to Note 12 for further information
about this portfolio, including information about
delinquencies, loan modifications and other credit quality
indicators.
Residential mortgage: The residential mortgage portfolio,
including loans held-for-sale, predominantly consists of prime
mortgage loans. The portfolio decreased from December 31,
2018 driven by paydowns as well as loan sales in Home
Lending, largely offset by originations of prime mortgage
loans that have been retained on the balance sheet. Net
recoveries for the year ended December 31, 2019 were lower
when compared with the prior year as the prior year benefited
from larger recoveries on loan sales.
At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Firm’s residential
mortgage portfolio included $22.4 billion and $21.6 billion,
respectively, of interest-only loans. These loans have an
interest-only payment period generally followed by an
adjustable-rate or fixed-rate fully amortizing payment period to
maturity and are typically originated as higher-balance loans to
higher-income borrowers, predominantly in AWM.
Performance of this portfolio for the year ended December 31,
2019 was consistent with the performance of the broader
residential mortgage portfolio for the same period.
The following table provides a summary of the Firm’s
residential mortgage portfolio insured and/or guaranteed
by U.S. government agencies, including loans held-for-sale.
The Firm monitors its exposure to certain potential
unrecoverable claim payments related to government insured
loans and considers this exposure in estimating the allowance
for loan losses.
(in millions)December 31,
2019December 31,
2018
Current $ 1,280$ 2,884
30-89 days past due 695 1,528
90 or more days past due 961 2,600
Total government guaranteed loans$ 2,936$ 7,012
Home equity: The home equity portfolio declined from
December 31, 2018 primarily reflecting paydowns.
At December 31, 2019, approximately 90% of the Firm’s
home equity portfolio consists of home equity lines of credit (“HELOCs”) and the remainder consisted of home equity
loans (“HELOANs”). HELOANs are generally fixed-rate,
closed-end, amortizing loans, with terms ranging from 3–30
years. In general, HELOCs originated by the Firm are
revolving loans for a 10-year period, after which time the
HELOC recasts into a loan with a 20-year amortization period.
The carrying value of HELOCs outstanding was $22 billion at
December 31, 2019. This amount included $10 billion of
HELOCs that have recast from interest-only to fully
amortizing payments or have been modified and $3 billion of
interest-only balloon HELOCs, which primarily mature after
2030. The Firm manages the risk of HELOCs during their
revolving period by closing or reducing the undrawn line to the
extent permitted by law when borrowers are exhibiting a
material deterioration in their credit risk profile.
Auto: The auto portfolio predominantly consists of prime-
quality loans. The portfolio declined when compared with
December 31, 2018, as paydowns and charge-offs or
liquidation of delinquent loans were predominantly offset by
new originations.
Consumer & Business Banking: Consumer & Business
Banking loans increased when compared with December 31,
2018 as loan originations were predominantly offset by
paydowns and charge-offs of delinquent loans. Net charge-offs
for the year ended December 31, 2019 increased when
compared with the prior year primarily due to higher deposit
overdraft losses.
Purchased credit-impaired loans: PCI loans represent certain
loans that were acquired and deemed to be credit-impaired on
the acquisition date. PCI loans decreased from December 31,
2018 due to portfolio run-off. As of December 31, 2019,
approximately 9% of the option ARM PCI loans were
delinquent and approximately 71% of the portfolio has been
modified into fixed-rate, fully amortizing loans. The borrowers
for substantially all of the remaining option ARM loans are
making amortizing payments, although such payments are not
necessarily fully amortizing. This latter group of loans is
subject to the risk of payment shock due to future payment
recast. Default rates generally increase on option ARM loans
when payment recast results in a payment increase. The
expected increase in default rates is considered in the Firm’s
quarterly impairment assessment.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 105
Management’ s discussion and analysis
The following table provides a summary of lifetime principal loss estimates included in either the nonaccretable difference or the
allowance for loan losses.
Summary of PCI loans lifetime principal loss estimates
 Lifetime loss estimates (a) Life-to-date liquidation losses (b)
December 31, (in billions) 2019  2018 2019  2018
Home equity $ 13.9  $ 14.1 $ 13.0  $ 13.0
Prime mortgage 4.1 4.1 3.9 3.9
Subprime mortgage 3.4 3.3 3.2 3.2
Option ARMs 10.3  10.3 10.0  9.9
Total $ 31.7  $ 31.8 $ 30.1  $ 30.0
(a)Includes the original nonaccretable difference established in purchase accounting of $30.5 billion for principal losses plus additional principal losses recognized
subsequent to acquisition through the provision and allowance for loan losses. The remaining nonaccretable difference for principal losses was $466 million and
$512 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
(b)Represents both realization of loss upon loan resolution and any principal forgiven upon modification.
Refer to Note 12 for further information on the Firm’s PCI loans, including write-offs.
Geographic composition of residential real estate loans
At December 31, 2019, $142.7 billion, or 64% of the total
retained residential real estate loan portfolio, excluding
mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies and PCI
loans, were concentrated in California, New York, Illinois,
Texas and Florida, compared with $160.3 billion, or 63%, at
December 31, 2018. Refer to Note 12 for additional
information on the geographic composition of the Firm’s
residential real estate loans.
Current estimated loan-to-values of residential real estate
loans
Average current estimated loan-to-value (“LTV”) ratios have
declined consistent with recent improvements in home prices,
customer pay-downs, and charge-offs or liquidations of higher
LTV loans. Refer to Note 12 for further information on current
estimated LTVs of residential real estate loans.
Modified residential real estate loans
The following table presents information as of December 31,
2019 and 2018, relating to modified retained residential real
estate loans for which concessions have been granted to
borrowers experiencing financial difficulty. Refer to Note 12
for further information on modifications for the years ended
December 31, 2019 and 2018. 
 2019 2018
December 31,
(in millions)Retained
loansNonaccrual
retained
loans(d)Retained
loansNonaccrual
retained
 loans(d)
Modified residential
real estate loans,
excluding PCI
loans(a)(b)     
Residential mortgage $ 4,005$ 1,367$ 4,565$ 1,459
Home equity 1,921 965 2,058 963
Total modified
residential real estate
loans, excluding PCI
loans $ 5,926$ 2,332$ 6,623$ 2,422
Modified PCI loans(c)    
Home equity $ 1,986 NA$ 2,086 NA
Prime mortgage 2,825 NA 3,179 NA
Subprime mortgage 1,869 NA 2,041 NA
Option ARMs 5,692 NA 6,410 NA
Total modified PCI
loans $12,372 NA$13,716 NA
(a)Amounts represent the carrying value of modified residential real estate
loans.
(b)At December 31, 2019 and 2018, $14 million and $4.1 billion,
respectively, of loans modified subsequent to repurchase from Ginnie Mae
in accordance with the standards of the appropriate government agency
(i.e., Federal Housing Administration (“FHA”), U.S. Department of
Veterans Affairs (“VA”), Rural Housing Service of the U.S. Department of
Agriculture (“RHS”)) are not included in the table above. When such
loans perform subsequent to modification in accordance with Ginnie Mae
guidelines, they are generally sold back into Ginnie Mae loan pools.
Modified loans that do not re-perform become subject to foreclosure.
Refer to Note 14 for additional information about sales of loans in
securitization transactions with Ginnie Mae.
(c)Amounts represent the unpaid principal balance of modified PCI loans.
(d)As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, nonaccrual loans included $1.9
billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, of troubled debt restructurings
(“TDRs”) for which the borrowers were less than 90 days past due. Refer
to Note 12 for additional information about loans modified in a TDR that
are on nonaccrual status.
106 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Nonperforming assets
The following table presents information as of December 31,
2019 and 2018, about consumer, excluding credit card,
nonperforming assets.
Nonperforming assets(a)  
December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018
Nonaccrual loans(b)
Residential real estate $ 2,782$ 3,088
Other consumer 360 373
Total nonaccrual loans 3,142 3,461
Assets acquired in loan satisfactions
Real estate owned(c) 214 196
Other 24 30
Total assets acquired in loan satisfactions 238 226
Total nonperforming assets $ 3,380$ 3,687
(a)At December 31, 2019 and 2018, nonperforming assets excluded mortgage
loans 90 or more days past due and insured by U.S. government agencies
of $961 million and $2.6 billion, respectively, and real estate owned
(“REO”) insured by U.S. government agencies of $41 million and $75
million, respectively. These amounts have been excluded based upon the
government guarantee.
(b)Excludes PCI loans, which are accounted for on a pool basis. Since each
pool is accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate
and an aggregate expectation of cash flows, the past-due status of the
pools, or that of individual loans within the pools, is not meaningful. The
Firm is recognizing interest income on each pool of loans as each of the
pools is performing.
(c)The prior period amount has been revised to conform with the current
period presentation. Nonaccrual loans: The following table presents changes in
the consumer, excluding credit card, nonaccrual loans for the
years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.
Nonaccrual loan activity  
Year ended December 31,  
(in millions)  2019 2018
Beginning balance  $ 3,461$ 4,209
Additions  2,210 2,799
Reductions:  
Principal payments and other(a)  1,026 1,407
Charge-offs  421 468
Returned to performing status  834 1,399
Foreclosures and other liquidations  248 273
Total reductions  2,529 3,547
Net changes  (319) (748)
Ending balance  $ 3,142$ 3,461
(a)Other reductions includes loan sales.
Active and suspended foreclosure: Refer to Note 12 for
information on loans that were in the process of active or
suspended foreclosure.
Credit card
Total credit card loans increased from December 31, 2018 due
to higher sales volume from existing customers and new
account growth. Net charge-offs increased for the year ended
December 31, 2019 when compared with the prior year, due to
loan growth, in line with expectations.
Consistent with the Firm’s policy, all credit card loans
typically remain on accrual status until charged off. However,
the Firm establishes an allowance, which is offset against loans
and reduces interest income, for the estimated uncollectible
portion of accrued and billed interest and fee income. Refer to
Note 12 for further information about this portfolio, including
information about delinquencies.
Geographic and FICO composition of credit card loans
At December 31, 2019, $77.5 billion, or 46% of the total
retained credit card loan portfolio, was concentrated in
California, Texas, New York, Florida and Illinois, compared
with $71.2 billion, or 45%, at December 31, 2018. Refer to
Note 12 for additional information on the geographic and
FICO composition of the Firm’s credit card loans.
Modifications of credit card loans
At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Firm had $1.5 billion and
$1.3 billion, respectively, of credit card loans outstanding that
have been modified in TDRs. Refer to Note 12 for additional
information about loan modification programs for borrowers.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 107
Management’ s discussion and analysis
WHOLESALE CREDIT  POR TFOLIO
In its wholesale businesses, the Firm is exposed to credit risk
primarily through its underwriting, lending, market-making,
and hedging activities with and for clients and counterparties,
as well as through various operating services (such as cash
management and clearing activities), securities financing
activities and cash placed with banks. A portion of the loans
originated or acquired by the Firm’s wholesale businesses is
generally retained on the balance sheet. The Firm distributes a
significant percentage of the loans that it originates into the
market as part of its syndicated loan business and to manage
portfolio concentrations and credit risk.
The credit performance of the wholesale portfolio remained
favorable for the year ended December 31, 2019, characterized
by continued low levels of criticized exposure, nonaccrual
loans and charge-offs. Refer to the industry discussion on
pages 109–111 for further information. Loans held-for-sale
decreased, driven by a loan syndication in CIB. The wholesale
portfolio is actively managed, in part by conducting ongoing,
in-depth reviews of client credit quality and transaction
structure inclusive of collateral where applicable, and of
industry, product and client concentrations. In the following tables, the Firm’s wholesale credit portfolio
includes exposure held in CIB, CB, AWM and Corporate. It
excludes all exposure managed by CCB, scored prime
mortgage and scored home equity loans held in AWM and
scored prime mortgage loans held in Corporate.
Wholesale credit portfolio
December 31,
(in millions)Credit exposure Nonperforming
2019 2018 2019 2018
Loans retained $444,639$439,162 $ 843$1,150
Loans held-for-sale 4,062 11,877 5 —
Loans at fair value 7,104 3,151 90 220
Loans – reported 455,805 454,190 938 1,370
Derivative receivables 49,766 54,213 30 60
Receivables from
customers and other(a) 33,706 30,063 — —
Total wholesale credit-
related assets 539,277 538,466 968 1,430
Assets acquired in loan
satisfactions  
Real estate owned NA NA 130 73
Other NA NA 19 —
Total assets acquired in
loan satisfactions NA NA 149 73
Lending-related
commitments 404,115 387,813 474 469
Total wholesale credit
portfolio $943,392$926,279 $1,591$1,972
Credit derivatives used
in credit portfolio
management activities(b)$(18,030)$(12,682)$ —$ —
Liquid securities and
other cash collateral held
against derivatives (16,009) (15,322) NA NA
(a)Receivables from customers and other include $33.7 billion and $30.1
billion of brokerage-related held-for-investment customer receivables at
December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, to clients in CIB and AWM;
these are classified in accrued interest and accounts receivable on the
Consolidated balance sheets.
(b)Represents the net notional amount of protection purchased and sold
through credit derivatives used to manage both performing and
nonperforming wholesale credit exposures; these derivatives do not
qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP. Refer to Credit
derivatives on page 115 and Note 5 for additional information.
108 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
The following tables present the maturity and internal risk ratings profiles of the wholesale credit portfolio as of December 31,
2019 and 2018. The Firm considers internal ratings equivalent to BBB-/Baa3 or higher as investment grade. Refer to Note 12 for
further information on internal risk ratings.
Wholesale credit exposure – maturity and ratings profile     
 Maturity profile(d)  Ratings profile  
 
Due in 1 year
or lessDue after
1 year
through
5 yearsDue after 5
years Total   
TotalTotal %
of IGDecember 31, 2019
(in millions, except ratios)  Investment-
grade Noninvestment-
grade  
Loans retained $128,430$209,397$106,812$444,639 $344,199 $ 100,440 $444,639 77%
Derivative receivables   49,766   49,766
Less: Liquid securities and other cash collateral held
against derivatives   (16,009)   (16,009)
Total derivative receivables, net of all collateral 6,561 6,960 20,236 33,757 26,966 6,791 33,757 80
Lending-related commitments 77,298 314,281 12,536 404,115 288,864 115,251 404,115 71
Subtotal 212,289 530,638 139,584 882,511 660,029 222,482 882,511 75
Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value(a)   11,166   11,166
Receivables from customers and other   33,706   33,706
Total exposure – net of liquid securities and other
cash collateral held against derivatives   $927,383   $927,383
Credit derivatives used in credit portfolio
management activities(b)(c) $ (4,912)$ (10,031)$ (3,087)$ (18,030) $ (16,276) $ (1,754) $ (18,030) 90%
 Maturity profile(d)  Ratings profile
 
Due in 1 year
or lessDue after
1 year
through
5 yearsDue after 5
years Total    
TotalTotal %
of IGDecember 31, 2018
(in millions, except ratios)  Investment-
grade Noninvestment-
grade  
Loans retained $138,458$196,974$103,730$439,162 $339,729 $ 99,433 $439,162 77%
Derivative receivables 54,213    54,213 
Less: Liquid securities and other cash collateral held
against derivatives (15,322)    (15,322) 
Total derivative receivables, net of all collateral 11,038 9,169 18,684 38,891 31,794 7,097 38,891 82
Lending-related commitments 79,400 294,855 13,558 387,813 288,724 99,089 387,813 74
Subtotal 228,896 500,998 135,972 865,866 660,247 205,619 865,866 76
Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value(a) 15,028    15,028 
Receivables from customers and other 30,063    30,063 
Total exposure – net of liquid securities and other
cash collateral held against derivatives $910,957    $910,957 
Credit derivatives used in credit portfolio
management activities (b)(c) $ (447)$ (9,318)$ (2,917)$ (12,682) $ (11,213) $ (1,469) $ (12,682) 88%
(a)Represents loans held-for-sale, primarily related to syndicated loans and loans transferred from the retained portfolio, and loans at fair value.
(b)These derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP.
(c)The notional amounts are presented on a net basis by underlying reference entity and the ratings profile shown is based on the ratings of the reference entity on
which protection has been purchased. Predominantly all of the credit derivatives entered into by the Firm where it has purchased protection used in credit
portfolio management activities are executed with investment-grade counterparties.
(d)The maturity profile of retained loans, lending-related commitments and derivative receivables is based on remaining contractual maturity. Derivative contracts
that are in a receivable position at December 31, 2019, may become payable prior to maturity based on their cash flow profile or changes in market conditions.
Wholesale credit exposure – industry exposures
The Firm focuses on the management and diversification of its
industry exposures, and pays particular attention to industries
with actual or potential credit concerns. Exposures deemed
criticized align with the U.S. banking regulators’ definition of
criticized exposures, which consist of the special mention,
substandard and doubtful
         categories. The total criticized component of the portfolio,
excluding loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value, was $14.3
billion at December 31, 2019, compared with $12.1 billion at
December 31, 2018. The increase was driven by select client
downgrades.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 109
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Below are summaries of the Firm’s exposures as of December 31, 2019 and 2018. The industry of risk category is generally based
on the client or counterparty’s primary business activity. Refer to Note 4 for additional information on industry concentrations.
Wholesale credit exposure – industries(a)    
  Selected metrics
  
30 days or
more past due
and accruing
loansNet charge-offs/
(recoveries)Credit
derivative
hedges(g)Liquid
securities
and other cash
collateral held
against
derivative
receivables Noninvestment-grade
 
Credit
exposure(f)Investment-
grade NoncriticizedCriticized
performingCriticized
nonperformingAs of or for the year ended
December 31, 2019
(in millions)
Real Estate $149,267$ 121,283$ 26,534$ 1,401$ 49$ 98$ 12$ (100)$ —
Individuals and Individual Entities(b) 102,292 90,865 11,219 171 37 386 28 — (641)
Consumer & Retail 99,331 57,587 39,524 2,062 158 80 112 (235) (11)
Technology, Media &
Telecommunications 59,021 35,602 20,368 2,923 128 13 26 (658) (17)
Industrials 58,250 38,760 18,264 1,050 176 161 41 (746) (9)
Asset Managers 51,775 45,208 6,550 4 13 18 — — (4,785)
Banks & Finance Cos 50,091 34,599 14,692 795 5 — — (834) (2,112)
Healthcare 46,638 36,231 9,248 1,074 85 79 6 (405) (145)
Oil & Gas 41,570 22,221 17,780 992 577 — 98 (429) (10)
Utilities 34,753 22,196 12,246 301 10 1 39 (414) (50)
State & Municipal Govt(c) 26,697 26,195 502 — — 29 — — (46)
Automotive 17,317 10,000 6,759 558 — 5 — (194) —
Chemicals & Plastics 17,276 11,984 5,080 212 — 3 — (10) (13)
Metals & Mining 15,337 7,020 7,620 658 39 1 (1) (33) (6)
Central Govt 14,843 14,502 341 — — — — (9,018) (1,963)
Transportation 13,917 8,644 4,863 347 63 29 7 (37) (37)
Insurance 12,202 9,413 2,768 17 4 3 — (36) (1,998)
Securities Firms 7,335 5,969 1,339 27 — — — (48) (3,201)
Financial Markets Infrastructure 4,116 3,969 147 — — — — — (6)
All other(d) 76,492 72,565 3,548 376 3 4 1 (4,833) (959)
Subtotal $898,520$ 674,813$ 209,392$ 12,968$ 1,347$ 910$ 369$(18,030)$ (16,009)
Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair
value 11,166    
Receivables from customers and other 33,706    
Total(e) $943,392    
110 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
         
     Selected metrics
     
30 days or
more past
due and
accruing
loansNet charge-offs/
(recoveries)Credit
derivative
hedges(g)Liquid
securities
and other cash
collateral held
against
derivative
receivables   Noninvestment-grade
 
Credit
exposure(f)Investment-
grade NoncriticizedCriticized
performingCriticized
nonperformingAs of or for the year ended
December 31, 2018
(in millions)
Real Estate $143,316$ 117,988$ 24,174$ 1,019$ 135$ 70$ (20)$ (2)$ (1)
Individuals and Individual Entities(b) 97,077 86,581 10,164 174 158 703 12 — (915)
Consumer & Retail 94,815 60,678 31,901 2,033 203 43 55 (248) (14)
Technology, Media &
Telecommunications 72,646 46,334 24,081 2,170 61 8 12 (1,011) (12)
Industrials 58,528 38,487 18,594 1,311 136 171 20 (207) (29)
Asset Managers 42,807 36,722 6,067 4 14 10 — — (5,829)
Banks & Finance Cos 49,920 34,120 15,496 299 5 11 — (575) (2,290)
Healthcare 48,142 36,687 10,625 761 69 23 (5) (150) (133)
Oil & Gas 42,600 23,356 17,451 1,158 635 6 36 (248) —
Utilities 28,172 23,558 4,326 138 150 — 38 (142) (60)
State & Municipal Govt(c) 27,351 26,746 603 2 — 18 (1) — (42)
Automotive 17,339 9,637 7,310 392 — 1 — (125) —
Chemicals & Plastics 16,035 11,490 4,427 118 — 4 — — —
Metals & Mining 15,359 8,188 6,767 385 19 1 — (174) (22)
Central Govt 18,456 18,251 124 81 — 4 — (7,994) (2,130)
Transportation 15,660 10,508 4,699 393 60 21 6 (31) (112)
Insurance 12,639 9,777 2,830 — 32 — — (36) (2,080)
Securities Firms 4,558 3,099 1,459 — — — — (158) (823)
Financial Markets Infrastructure 7,484 6,746 738 — — — — — (26)
All other(d) 68,284 64,664 3,606 12 2 2 2 (1,581) (804)
Subtotal $881,188$ 673,617$ 195,442$ 10,450$ 1,679$ 1,096$ 155$(12,682)$ (15,322)
Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair
value 15,028       
Receivables from customers and other 30,063       
Total(e) $926,279       
(a)The industry rankings presented in the table as of December 31, 2018, are based on the industry rankings of the corresponding exposures at December 31, 2019,
not actual rankings of such exposures at December 31, 2018.
(b)Individuals and Individual Entities predominantly consists of Wealth Management clients within AWM and includes exposure to personal investment companies
and personal and testamentary trusts.
(c)In addition to the credit risk exposure to states and municipal governments (both U.S. and non-U.S.) at December 31, 2019 and 2018, noted above, the Firm
held: $6.5 billion and $7.8 billion, respectively, of trading assets; $29.8 billion and $37.7 billion, respectively, of AFS securities; and $4.8 billion at both periods
of held-to-maturity (“HTM”) securities, issued by U.S. state and municipal governments. Refer to Note 2 and Note 10 for further information.
(d)All other includes: SPEs and Private education and civic organizations, representing approximately 92% and 8%, respectively, at both December 31, 2019 and
2018.
(e)Excludes cash placed with banks of $254.0 billion and $268.1 billion, at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, which is predominantly placed with various
central banks, primarily Federal Reserve Banks.
(f)Credit exposure is net of risk participations and excludes the benefit of credit derivatives used in credit portfolio management activities held against derivative
receivables or loans and liquid securities and other cash collateral held against derivative receivables.
(g)Represents the net notional amounts of protection purchased and sold through credit derivatives used to manage the credit exposures; these derivatives do not
qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP. The All other category includes purchased credit protection on certain credit indices.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 111
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Real Estate
Presented below is additional information on the Real Estate industry, to which the Firm has significant exposure.
Real Estate exposure increased $6.0 billion to $149.3 billion during the year ended December 31, 2019, and the investment grade
percentage of the portfolio remained relatively flat at 81%. Refer to Note 12 for further information on Real Estate loans.
 December 31, 2019  
(in millions, except ratios)Loans and
Lending-related
CommitmentsDerivative
ReceivablesCredit
exposure% Investment-
grade % Drawn(c)
Multifamily(a) $ 86,326 $ 58 $ 86,384 91% 92% 
Other 62,322 561 62,883 68 59 
Total Real Estate Exposure(b) 148,648 619 149,267 81 78 
     
 December 31, 2018  
(in millions, except ratios)Loans and
Lending-related
CommitmentsDerivative
Receivables Credit exposure% Investment-
grade % Drawn(c)
Multifamily(a) $ 85,683 $ 33 $ 85,716 89% 92% 
Other 57,469 131 57,600 72 63 
Total Real Estate Exposure(b) 143,152 164 143,316 82 81 
(a)Multifamily exposure is largely in California.
(b)Real Estate exposure is predominantly secured; unsecured exposure is largely investment-grade.
(c)Represents drawn exposure as a percentage of credit exposure.
Loans
In its wholesale businesses, the Firm provides loans to a
variety of clients, ranging from large corporate and
institutional clients to high-net-worth individuals. Refer to
Note 12 for a further discussion on loans, including
information about delinquencies, loan modifications and other
credit quality indicators.
The following table presents the change in the nonaccrual loan
portfolio for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.
Wholesale nonaccrual loan activity  
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018
Beginning balance $ 1,370$ 1,734
Additions 2,141 1,188
Reductions:   
Paydowns and other 1,435 692
Gross charge-offs 376 299
Returned to performing status 556 234
Sales 206 327
Total reductions 2,573 1,552
Net changes (432) (364)
Ending balance $ 938$ 1,370 The following table presents net charge-offs/recoveries, which
are defined as gross charge-offs less recoveries, for the years
ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. The amounts in the table
below do not include gains or losses from sales of nonaccrual
loans.
Wholesale net charge-offs/(recoveries)
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios) 2019 2018
Loans – reported  
Average loans retained $ 435,876 $ 416,828
Gross charge-offs 411 313
Gross recoveries (42) (158)
Net charge-offs/(recoveries) 369 155
Net charge-off/(recovery) rate 0.08% 0.04%
112 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Lending-related commitments
The Firm uses lending-related financial instruments, such as
commitments (including revolving credit facilities) and
guarantees, to address the financing needs of its clients. The
contractual amounts of these financial instruments represent
the maximum possible credit risk should the clients draw down
on these commitments or when the Firm fulfills its obligations
under these guarantees, and the clients subsequently fail to
perform according to the terms of these contracts. Most of
these commitments and guarantees are refinanced, extended,
cancelled, or expire without being drawn upon or a default
occurring. As a result, the Firm does not believe that the total
contractual amount of these wholesale lending-related
commitments is representative of the Firm’s expected future
credit exposure or funding requirements. Refer to Note 28 for
further information on wholesale lending-related
commitments.
Receivables from Customers
Receivables from customers primarily represent held-for-
investment margin loans to brokerage clients in CIB and AWM
that are collateralized by assets maintained in the clients’
brokerage accounts (e.g., cash on deposit, liquid and readily
marketable debt or equity securities), as such no allowance is
held against these receivables. To manage its credit risk the
Firm establishes margin requirements and monitors the
required margin levels on an ongoing basis, and requires
clients to deposit additional cash or other collateral, or to
reduce positions, when appropriate. These receivables are
reported within accrued interest and accounts receivable on the
Firm’s Consolidated balance sheets.
Clearing services
The Firm provides clearing services for clients entering into
certain securities and derivative contracts. Through the
provision of these services the Firm is exposed to the risk of
non-performance by its clients and may be required to share in
losses incurred by CCPs. Where possible, the Firm seeks to
mitigate its credit risk to its clients through the collection of
adequate margin at inception and throughout the life of the
transactions and can also cease the provision of clearing
services if clients do not adhere to their obligations under the
clearing agreement. Refer to Note 28 for a further discussion
of clearing services.
Derivative contracts
Derivatives enable clients and counterparties to manage risks
including credit risk and risks arising from fluctuations in
interest rates, foreign exchange, equities, and commodities.
The Firm makes markets in derivatives in order to meet these
needs and uses derivatives to manage certain risks associated
with net open risk positions from its market-making activities,
including the counterparty credit risk arising from derivative
receivables. The Firm also uses derivative instruments to
manage its own credit and other market risk exposure. The
nature of the counterparty and the settlement mechanism of the
derivative affect the credit risk to which the Firm is exposed.
For OTC derivatives the Firm is exposed to the credit risk of
the derivative counterparty. For exchange-traded derivatives (“ETD”), such
as futures and options, and cleared over-the-counter (“OTC-
cleared”) derivatives, the Firm is generally exposed to the
credit risk of the relevant CCP. Where possible, the Firm seeks
to mitigate its credit risk exposures arising from derivative
contracts through the use of legally enforceable master netting
arrangements and collateral agreements. Refer to Note 5 for a
further discussion of derivative contracts, counterparties and
settlement types.
The following table summarizes the net derivative receivables
for the periods presented.
Derivative receivables  
December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018
Total, net of cash collateral $ 49,766$ 54,213
Liquid securities and other cash collateral
held against derivative receivables(a) (16,009) (15,322)
Total, net of all collateral $ 33,757$ 38,891
(a)Includes collateral related to derivative instruments where appropriate legal
opinions have not been either sought or obtained with respect to master netting
agreements.
The fair value of derivative receivables reported on the
Consolidated balance sheets were $49.8 billion and $54.2
billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Derivative receivables represent the fair value of the derivative
contracts after giving effect to legally enforceable master
netting agreements and cash collateral held by the Firm.
However, in management’s view, the appropriate measure of
current credit risk should also take into consideration
additional liquid securities (primarily U.S. government and
agency securities and other group of seven nations (“G7”)
government securities) and other cash collateral held by the
Firm aggregating $16.0 billion and $15.3 billion at
December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, that may be used
as security when the fair value of the client’s exposure is in the
Firm’s favor.
The Firm also holds additional collateral (primarily cash, G7
government securities, other liquid government agency and
guaranteed securities, and corporate debt and equity securities)
delivered by clients at the initiation of transactions, as well as
collateral related to contracts that have a non-daily call
frequency and collateral that the Firm has agreed to return but
has not yet settled as of the reporting date. Although this
collateral does not reduce the balances and is not included in
the table above, it is available as security against potential
exposure that could arise should the fair value of the client’s
derivative contracts move in the Firm’s favor. The derivative
receivables fair value, net of all collateral, also does not
include other credit enhancements, such as letters of credit.
Refer to Note 5 for additional information on the Firm’s use of
collateral agreements.
While useful as a current view of credit exposure, the net fair
value of the derivative receivables does not capture the
potential future variability of that credit exposure. To capture
the potential future variability of credit exposure, the Firm
calculates, on a client-by-client basis, three measures of
potential derivatives-related credit loss: Peak, Derivative Risk
Equivalent (“DRE”), and Average exposure
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 113
Management’ s discussion and analysis
(“AVG”). These measures all incorporate netting and collateral
benefits, where applicable.
Peak represents a conservative measure of potential exposure
to a counterparty calculated in a manner that is broadly
equivalent to a 97.5% confidence level over the life of the
transaction. Peak is the primary measure used by the Firm for
setting credit limits for derivative contracts, senior
management reporting and derivatives exposure management.
DRE exposure is a measure that expresses the risk of
derivative exposure on a basis intended to be equivalent to the
risk of loan exposures. DRE is a less extreme measure of
potential credit loss than Peak and is used as an input for
aggregating derivative credit risk exposures with loans and
other credit risk.
Finally, AVG is a measure of the expected fair value of the
Firm’s derivative receivables at future time periods, including
the benefit of collateral. AVG over the total life of the
derivative contract is used as the primary metric for pricing
purposes and is used to calculate credit risk capital and CVA,
as further described below.
The fair value of the Firm’s derivative receivables incorporates
CVA to reflect the credit quality of counterparties. CVA is
based on the Firm’s AVG to a counterparty and the
counterparty’s credit spread in the credit derivatives market.
The Firm believes that active risk management is essential to
controlling the dynamic credit risk in the derivatives portfolio.
In addition, the Firm’s risk management process takes into
consideration the potential impact of wrong-way risk, which is
broadly defined as the potential for increased correlation
between the Firm’s exposure to a counterparty (AVG) and the counterparty’s credit
quality. Many factors may influence the nature and magnitude
of these correlations over time. To the extent that these
correlations are identified, the Firm may adjust the CVA
associated with that counterparty’s AVG. The Firm risk
manages exposure to changes in CVA by entering into credit
derivative contracts, as well as interest rate, foreign exchange,
equity and commodity derivative contracts.
The below graph shows exposure profiles to the Firm’s current
derivatives portfolio over the next 10 years as calculated by the
Peak, DRE and AVG metrics. The three measures generally
show that exposure will decline after the first year, if no new
trades are added to the portfolio.
Exposure profile of derivatives measures
December 31, 2019
(in billions)
The following table summarizes the ratings profile of the Firm’s derivative receivables, including credit derivatives, net of all
collateral, at the dates indicated. The Firm considers internal ratings equivalent to BBB-/Baa3 or higher as investment grade. Refer
to Note 12 for further information on internal risk ratings.
Ratings profile of derivative receivables
Internal rating equivalent 2019 2018
December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)Exposure net of
all collateral% of exposure net
of all collateralExposure net of
all collateral% of exposure net
of all collateral
AAA/Aaa to AA-/Aa3 $ 8,347 25% $ 11,831 31%
A+/A1 to A-/A3 5,471 16 7,428 19
BBB+/Baa1 to BBB-/Baa3 13,148 39 12,536 32
BB+/Ba1 to B-/B3 6,225 18 6,373 16
CCC+/Caa1 and below 566 2 723 2
Total $ 33,757 100% $ 38,891 100%
As previously noted, the Firm uses collateral agreements to
mitigate counterparty credit risk. The percentage of the Firm’s
over-the-counter derivative transactions subject to collateral
agreements — excluding foreign exchange spot trades, which
are not typically covered by collateral agreements due to their
short maturity and centrally cleared trades that are settled daily
— was approximately 90% at both December 31, 2019 and
2018.
114 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Credit derivatives
The Firm uses credit derivatives for two primary purposes:
first, in its capacity as a market-maker, and second, as an end-
user, to manage the Firm’s own credit risk associated with
various exposures.
Credit portfolio management activities
Included in the Firm’s end-user activities are credit derivatives
used to mitigate the credit risk associated with traditional
lending activities (loans and unfunded commitments) and
derivatives counterparty exposure in the Firm’s wholesale
businesses (collectively, “credit portfolio management”
activities). Information on credit portfolio management
activities is provided in the table below.
The Firm also uses credit derivatives as an end-user to manage
other exposures, including credit risk arising from certain
securities held in the Firm’s market-making businesses. These
credit derivatives are not included in credit portfolio
management activities. 
Credit derivatives used in credit portfolio management
activities
 Notional amount of protection
purchased and sold (a)
December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018
Credit derivatives used to manage:   
Loans and lending-related commitments$ 2,047$ 1,272
Derivative receivables 15,983 11,410
Credit derivatives used in credit portfolio
management activities $ 18,030$ 12,682
(a)Amounts are presented net, considering the Firm’s net protection
purchased or sold with respect to each underlying reference entity or
index.
The credit derivatives used in credit portfolio management
activities do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S.
GAAP; these derivatives are reported at fair value, with gains
and losses recognized in principal transactions revenue. In
contrast, the loans and lending-related commitments being
risk-managed are accounted for on an accrual basis. This
asymmetry in accounting treatment, between loans and
lending-related commitments and the credit derivatives used in
credit portfolio management activities, causes earnings
volatility that is not representative, in the Firm’s view, of the
true changes in value of the Firm’s overall credit exposure.
The effectiveness of credit default swaps (“CDS”) as a hedge
against the Firm’s exposures may vary depending on a number
of factors, including the named reference entity (i.e., the Firm
may experience losses on specific exposures that are different
than the named reference entities in the purchased CDS); the
contractual terms of the CDS (which may have a defined credit
event that does not align with an actual loss realized by the
Firm); and the maturity of the Firm’s CDS protection (which in
some cases may be shorter than the Firm’s exposures).
However, the Firm generally seeks to purchase credit
protection with a maturity date that is the same or similar to
the maturity date of the exposure for which the protection was
purchased, and remaining differences in maturity are actively
monitored and managed by the Firm. Refer to Credit
derivatives in Note 5 for a detailed description of credit
derivatives.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 115
Management’ s discussion and analysis
ALLOW ANCE FOR CREDIT  LOSSES
The Firm’s allowance for credit losses covers the retained
consumer and wholesale loan portfolios, as well as the Firm’s
wholesale and certain consumer lending-related commitments.
Refer to Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm on
pages 136–138 and Note 13 for further information on the
components of the allowance for credit losses and related
management judgments.
At least quarterly, the allowance for credit losses is reviewed
by the CRO, the CFO and the Controller of the Firm. As of
December 31, 2019, JPMorgan Chase deemed the allowance
for credit losses to be appropriate and sufficient to absorb
probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio. The allowance for credit losses decreased compared with
December 31, 2018 driven by:
•an $800 million reduction in the CCB allowance for loan
losses, which included $650 million in the PCI residential
real estate portfolio, reflecting continued improvement in
home prices and delinquencies; $100 million in the non
credit-impaired residential real estate portfolio; and $50
million in the business banking portfolio; as well as
•a $151 million reduction for write-offs of PCI loans,
predominantly offset by
•a $500 million addition to the allowance for loan losses in
the credit card portfolio reflecting loan growth and higher
loss rates as newer vintages season and become a larger part
of the portfolio, and
•a $251 million addition in the wholesale allowance for credit
losses driven by select client downgrades.
Refer to Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 103–107,
Wholesale Credit Portfolio on pages 108–115 and Note 12 for
additional information on the consumer and wholesale credit
portfolios.
116 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Summary of changes in the allowance for credit losses   
 2019  2018
Year ended December 31, Consumer ,
excluding
credit card Credit card Wholesale Total  Consumer ,
excluding
credit card Credit card Wholesale Total (in millions, except ratios)
Allowance for  loan losses    
Beginning balance at January 1, $ 4,146 $ 5,184 $ 4,115 $ 13,445  $ 4,579 $ 4,884 $ 4,141 $ 13,604
Gross char ge-of fs 963 5,436 411 6,810  1,025 5,011 313 6,349
Gross recoveries (551) (588) (42) (1,181 ) (842) (493) (158) (1,493 )
Net charge-offs 412 4,848 369 5,629  183 4,518 155 4,856
Write-of fs of PCI loans (a) 151 — — 151  187 — — 187
Provision for loan losses (383) 5,348 484 5,449  (63) 4,818 130 4,885
Other (1) (1) 11 9 — — (1) (1)
Ending balance at December  31, $ 3,199 $ 5,683 $ 4,241 $ 13,123  $ 4,146 $ 5,184 $ 4,115 $ 13,445
Impairment methodology    
Asset-specific (b) $ 136 $ 477 $ 234 $ 847  $ 196 $ 440 $ 297 $ 933
Formula-based 2,076 5,206 4,007 11,289  2,162 4,744 3,818 10,724
PCI 987 — — 987  1,788 — — 1,788
Total allowance for  loan losses $ 3,199 $ 5,683 $ 4,241 $ 13,123  $ 4,146 $ 5,184 $ 4,115 $ 13,445
Allowance for  lending-r elated
commitments    
Beginning balance at January 1, $ 33 $ — $ 1,022 $ 1,055  $ 33 $ — $ 1,035 $ 1,068
Provision for lending-related
commitments — — 136 136  — — (14) (14)
Other — — — — — — 1 1
Ending balance at December  31, $ 33 $ — $ 1,158 $ 1,191  $ 33 $ — $ 1,022 $ 1,055
Impairment methodology    
Asset-specific $ — $ — $ 102 $ 102  $ — $ — $ 99 $ 99
Formula-based 33 — 1,056 1,089  33 — 923 956
Total allowance for  lending-r elated
commitments (c) $ 33 $ — $ 1,158 $ 1,191  $ 33 $ — $ 1,022 $ 1,055
Total allowance for  credit losses $ 3,232 $ 5,683 $ 5,399 $ 14,314  $ 4,179 $ 5,184 $ 5,137 $ 14,500
Memo:    
Retained loans, end of period $ 332,038 $ 168,924 $ 444,639 $ 945,601  $ 373,637 $ 156,616 $ 439,162 $ 969,415
Retained loans, average 349,724 156,319 435,876 941,919  374,395 145,606 416,828 936,829
PCI loans, end of period 20,363 — — 20,363  24,034 — 3 24,037
Credit ratios    
Allowance for loan losses to retained
loans 0.96% 3.36% 0.95% 1.39% 1.11% 3.31% 0.94% 1.39%
Allowance for loan losses to retained
nonaccrual loans (d) 102 NM 503 329  120 NM 358 292
Allowance for loan losses to retained
nonaccrual loans excluding credit card 102 NM 503 187  120 NM 358 179
Net char ge-of f rates 0.12 3.10 0.08 0.60  0.05 3.10 0.04 0.52
Credit ratios, excluding r esidential r eal
estate PCI loans    
Allowance for loan losses to
retained loans 0.71 3.36 0.95 1.31  0.67 3.31 0.94 1.23
Allowance for loan losses to retained
nonaccrual loans (d) 70 NM 503 305  68 NM 358 253
Allowance for loan losses to retained
nonaccrual
 loans excluding credit card 70 NM 503 162  68 NM 358 140
Net char ge-of f rates 0.13% 3.10% 0.08% 0.61% 0.05% 3.10% 0.04% 0.53%
Note:In the table above, the financial measures which exclude the impact of PCI loans are non-GAAP financial measures.
(a)Write-offs of PCI loans are recorded against the allowance for loan losses when actual losses for a pool exceed estimated losses that were recorded as purchase
accounting adjustments at the time of acquisition. A write-off of a PCI loan is recognized when the underlying loan is removed from a pool.
(b)Includes risk-rated loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status and loans that have been modified in a TDR. The asset-specific credit card allowance for
loan losses modified in a TDR is calculated based on the loans’ original contractual interest rates and does not consider any incremental penalty rates.
(c)The allowance for lending-related commitments is reported in accounts payable and other liabilities on the Consolidated balance sheets.
(d)The Firm’s policy is generally to exempt credit card loans from being placed on nonaccrual status as permitted by regulatory guidance.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 117
Management’ s discussion and analysis
INVESTMENT  POR TFOLIO RISK MANAGEMENT
Investment portfolio risk is the risk associated with the loss of
principal or a reduction in expected returns on investments
arising from the investment securities portfolio or from
principal investments. The investment securities portfolio is
predominantly held by Treasury and CIO in connection with
the Firm's balance sheet or asset-liability management
objectives. Principal investments are predominantly privately-
held financial instruments and are managed in the LOBs and
Corporate. Investments are typically intended to be held over
extended periods and, accordingly, the Firm has no expectation
for short-term realized gains with respect to these investments.
Investment securities risk
Investment securities risk includes the exposure associated
with a default in the payment of principal and interest. This
risk is mitigated given that the investment securities portfolio
held by Treasury and CIO is predominantly invested in high-
quality securities. At December 31, 2019, the Treasury and
CIO investment securities portfolio was $396.4 billion, and the
average credit rating of the securities comprising the portfolio
was AA+ (based upon external ratings where available and
where not available, based primarily upon internal risk ratings.
Refer to Corporate segment results on pages 77–78 and Note
10 for further information on the investment securities
portfolio and internal risk ratings. Refer to Market Risk
Management on pages 119–126 for further information on the
market risk inherent in the portfolio. Refer to Liquidity Risk
Management on pages 93–98 for further information on related
liquidity risk.
Governance and oversight
Investment securities risks are governed by the Firm’s Risk
Appetite framework, and reviewed at the CTC Risk
Committee with regular updates to the Board Risk Committee.
The Firm’s independent control functions are responsible for
reviewing the appropriateness of the carrying value of
investment securities in accordance with relevant policies.
Approved levels for investment securities are established for
each risk category, including capital and credit risks. Principal investment risk
Principal investments are typically private non-traded financial
instruments representing ownership or other forms of junior
capital. Principal investments span multiple asset classes and
are made either in stand-alone investing businesses or as part
of a broader business platform. In general, new principal
investments include tax-oriented investments, as well as
investments made to enhance or accelerate LOB and Corporate
strategic business initiatives. The Firm’s principal investments
are managed by the LOBs and Corporate and are reflected
within their respective financial results.
As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate carrying
values of the principal investment portfolios were $24.2 billion
and $22.2 billion, respectively, which included tax-oriented
investments (e.g., affordable housing and alternative energy
investments) of $18.2 billion and $16.6 billion, respectively,
and private equity, various debt and equity instruments, and
real assets of $6.0 billion and $5.6 billion, respectively.
Governance and oversight
The Firm’s approach to managing principal risk is consistent
with the Firm’s risk governance structure. A Firmwide risk
policy framework exists for all principal investing activities
and includes approval by executives who are independent from
the investing businesses, as appropriate.
The Firm’s independent control functions are responsible for
reviewing the appropriateness of the carrying value of
investments in accordance with relevant policies. As part of the
risk governance structure, approved levels for investments are
established and monitored for each relevant business or
segment in order to manage the overall size of the portfolios.
The Firm also conducts stress testing on these portfolios using
specific scenarios that estimate losses based on significant
market moves and/or other risk events.
118 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
MARKET  RISK MANAGEMENT
Market risk is the risk associated with the effect of changes in
market factors, such as interest and foreign exchange rates,
equity and commodity prices, credit spreads or implied
volatilities, on the value of assets and liabilities held for both
the short and long term.
Market Risk Management
Market Risk Management monitors market risks throughout
the Firm and defines market risk policies and procedures.
Market Risk Management seeks to manage risk, facilitate
efficient risk/return decisions, reduce volatility in operating
performance and provide transparency into the Firm’s market
risk profile for senior management, the Board of Directors and
regulators. Market Risk Management is responsible for the
following functions:
•Establishing a market risk policy framework
•Independently measuring, monitoring and controlling LOB,
Corporate, and Firmwide market risk
•Defining, approving and monitoring of limits
•Performing stress testing and qualitative risk assessments
Risk measurement
Measures used to capture market risk
There is no single measure to capture market risk and therefore
Market Risk Management uses various metrics, both statistical
and nonstatistical, to assess risk including:
•Value-at-risk (VaR)
•Stress testing
•Profit and loss drawdowns
•Earnings-at-risk
•Other sensitivity-based measures Risk monitoring and control
Market risk exposure is managed primarily through a series of
limits set in the context of the market environment and
business strategy. In setting limits, Market Risk Management
takes into consideration factors such as market volatility,
product liquidity, accommodation of client business, and
management experience. Market Risk Management maintains
different levels of limits. Firm level limits include VaR and
stress limits. Similarly, LOB and Corporate limits include VaR
and stress limits and may be supplemented by certain
nonstatistical risk measures such as profit and loss drawdowns.
Limits may also be set within the LOBs and Corporate, as well
as at the legal entity level.
Market Risk Management sets limits and regularly reviews and
updates them as appropriate. Senior management is
responsible for reviewing and approving certain of these risk
limits on an ongoing basis. Limits that have not been reviewed
within specified time periods by Market Risk Management are
escalated to senior management. The LOBs and Corporate are
responsible for adhering to established limits against which
exposures are monitored and reported.
Limit breaches are required to be reported in a timely manner
to limit approvers, which include Market Risk Management
and senior management. In the event of a breach, Market Risk
Management consults with appropriate members of the Firm to
determine the suitable course of action required to return the
applicable positions to compliance, which may include a
reduction in risk in order to remedy the breach or granting a
temporary increase in limits to accommodate an expected
increase in client activity and/or market volatility. Certain
Firm, Corporate or LOB-level limit breaches are escalated as
appropriate.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 119
•
••
••
•
•
•
•
••
•
•
••
•
••
•
•
•
••
••
•
• • • •
•
•
••
•• •
••
•
• •
••
••
•
••
•Management’ s discussion and analysis
The following table summarizes the predominant business activities and related market risks, as well as positions which give rise to
market risk and certain measures used to capture those risks, for each LOB and Corporate.
In addition to the predominant business activities, each LOB and Corporate may engage in principal investing activities. To the
extent principal investments are deemed market risk sensitive, they are reflected in relevant risk measures (i.e., VaR or Other
sensitivity-based measures) and captured in the table below. Refer to Investment Portfolio Risk Management on page 118 for
additional discussion on principal investments.
LOBs and
CorporatePredominant business
activitiesRelated market risks Positions included in Risk
Management VaRPositions included in
earnings-at-riskPositions included in other
sensitivity-based measur es
CCB Services mortgage loans
Originates loans and
takes depositsRisk from changes in the
probability of newly
originated mortgage
commitments closing
Interest rate risk and
prepayment riskMortgage commitments,
classified as derivatives
Warehouse loans, classified
as trading assets – debt
instruments
MSRs
Hedges of mortgage
commitments, warehouse loans
and MSRs, classified as
derivatives
Interest-only securities,
classified as trading assets debt
instruments, and related hedges,
classified as derivatives
Fair value option elected
liabilitiesRetained loan portfolio
Deposits
 
CIB Makes markets and
services clients across fixed
income, foreign exchange,
equities and commodities
Originates loans and
takes depositsRisk of loss from adverse
movements in market prices
and implied volatilities across
interest rate, foreign
exchange, credit, commodity
and equity instruments
Basis and correlation risk
from changes in the way asset
values move relative to one
another
Interest rate risk and
prepayment riskTrading assets/liabilities –
debt and marketable equity
instruments, and derivatives,
including hedges of the retained
loan portfolio
Certain securities purchased,
loaned or sold under resale
agreements and securities
borrowed
Fair value option elected
liabilities
Derivative CV A and
associated hedges
Marketable equity
investmentsRetained loan portfolio
DepositsPrivately held equity and
other investments measured at
fair value
Derivatives FV A and fair
value option elected liabilities
DVA
CB Originates loans and
takes depositsInterest rate risk and
prepayment riskMarketable equity
investments(a)Retained loan portfolio
Deposits
 
AWM Provides initial capital
investments in products
such as mutual funds and
capital invested alongside
third-party investors
Originates loans and
takes depositsRisk from adverse
movements in market factors
(e.g., rates and credit spreads)
Interest rate risk and
prepayment riskDebt securities held in
advance of distribution to
clients, classified as trading
assets - debt instruments(a)Retained loan portfolio
DepositsInitial seed capital
investments and related hedges,
classified as derivatives
Capital invested alongside
third-party investors, typically
in privately distributed
collective vehicles managed by
AWM (i.e., co-investments)
Corporate Manages the Firm’ s
liquidity , funding, capital,
structural interest rate and
foreign exchange risksStructural interest rate risk
from the Firm’ s traditional
banking activities
Structural non-USD
foreign exchange risksDerivative positions
measured at fair value through
noninterest revenue in earnings
Marketable equity
investmentsDeposits with banks
Investment securities
portfolio and related interest
rate hedges
Long-term debt and related
interest rate hedgesPrivately held equity and
other investments measured at
fair value
Foreign exchange exposure
related to Firm-issued non-USD
long-term debt (“L TD”) and
related hedges
(a)The AWM and CB contributions to Firmwide average VaR were not material for the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.
120 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Value-at-risk
JPMorgan Chase utilizes VaR, a statistical risk measure, to
estimate the potential loss from adverse market moves in the
current market environment. The Firm has a single VaR
framework used as a basis for calculating Risk Management
VaR and Regulatory VaR.
The framework is employed across the Firm using historical
simulation based on data for the previous 12 months. The
framework’s approach assumes that historical changes in
market values are representative of the distribution of potential
outcomes in the immediate future. The Firm believes the use of
Risk Management VaR provides a daily measure of risk that is
closely aligned to risk management decisions made by the
LOBs and Corporate and, along with other market risk
measures, provides the appropriate information needed to
respond to risk events.
The Firm’s Risk Management VaR is calculated assuming a
one-day holding period and an expected tail-loss methodology
which approximates a 95% confidence level. Risk
Management VaR provides a consistent framework to measure
risk profiles and levels of diversification across product types
and is used for aggregating risks and monitoring limits across
businesses. VaR results are reported to senior management, the
Board of Directors and regulators.
Under the Firm’s Risk Management VaR methodology,
assuming current changes in market values are consistent with
the historical changes used in the simulation, the Firm would
expect to incur VaR “back-testing exceptions,” defined as
losses greater than that predicted by VaR estimates, an average
of five times every 100 trading days. The number of VaR back-
testing exceptions observed can differ from the statistically
expected number of back-testing exceptions if the current level
of market volatility is materially different from the level of
market volatility during the 12 months of historical data used
in the VaR calculation.
Underlying the overall VaR model framework are individual
VaR models that simulate historical market returns for
individual risk factors and/or product types. To capture
material market risks as part of the Firm’s risk management
framework, comprehensive VaR model calculations are
performed daily for businesses whose activities give rise to
market risk. These VaR models are granular and incorporate
numerous risk factors and inputs to simulate daily changes in
market values over the historical period; inputs are selected
based on the risk profile of each portfolio, as sensitivities and
historical time series used to generate daily market values may
be different across product types or risk management systems.
The VaR model results across all portfolios are aggregated at
the Firm level. As VaR is based on historical data, it is an imperfect measure
of market risk exposure and potential future losses. In addition,
based on their reliance on available historical data, limited
time horizons, and other factors, VaR measures are inherently
limited in their ability to measure certain risks and to predict
losses, particularly those associated with market illiquidity and
sudden or severe shifts in market conditions.
For certain products, specific risk parameters are not captured
in VaR due to the lack of inherent liquidity and availability of
appropriate historical data. The Firm uses proxies to estimate
the VaR for these and other products when daily time series are
not available. It is likely that using an actual price-based time
series for these products, if available, would affect the VaR
results presented. The Firm therefore considers other
nonstatistical measures such as stress testing, in addition to
VaR, to capture and manage its market risk positions.
The daily market data used in VaR models may be different
than the independent third-party data collected for VCG price
testing in its monthly valuation process. For example, in cases
where market prices are not observable, or where proxies are
used in VaR historical time series, the data sources may differ.
Refer to Valuation process in Note 2 for further information on
the Firm’s valuation process. As VaR model calculations
require daily data and a consistent source for valuation, it may
not be practical to use the data collected in the VCG monthly
valuation process for VaR model calculations.
The Firm’s VaR model calculations are periodically evaluated
and enhanced in response to changes in the composition of the
Firm’s portfolios, changes in market conditions, improvements
in the Firm’s modeling techniques and measurements, and
other factors. Such changes may affect historical comparisons
of VaR results. Refer to Estimations and Model Risk
Management on page 135 for information regarding model
reviews and approvals.
The Firm calculates separately a daily aggregated VaR in
accordance with regulatory rules (“Regulatory VaR”), which is
used to derive the Firm’s regulatory VaR-based capital
requirements under Basel III. This Regulatory VaR model
framework currently assumes a ten business-day holding
period and an expected tail loss methodology which
approximates a 99% confidence level. Regulatory VaR is
applied to “covered” positions as defined by Basel III, which
may be different than the positions included in the Firm’s Risk
Management VaR. For example, credit derivative hedges of
accrual loans are included in the Firm’s Risk Management
VaR, while Regulatory VaR excludes these credit derivative
hedges. In addition, in contrast to the Firm’s Risk Management
VaR, Regulatory VaR currently excludes the diversification
benefit for certain VaR models.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 121
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Refer to JPMorgan Chase’s Basel III Pillar 3 Regulatory
Capital Disclosures reports, which are available on the Firm’s
website, for additional information on Regulatory VaR and the other components of market risk regulatory
capital for the Firm (e.g., VaR-based measure, stressed VaR-
based measure and the respective backtesting).
The table below shows the results of the Firm’s Risk Management VaR measure using a 95% confidence level. VaR can vary
significantly as positions change, market volatility fluctuates, and diversification benefits change.
Total VaR   
As of or for the year ended December 31, 2019 2018
(in millions)  Avg. Min Max  Avg. Min Max
CIB trading VaR by risk type        
Fixed income $ 40 $ 31 $ 50 $ 33 $ 25 $ 46
Foreign exchange 7 4 15 6 3 15
Equities 20 13 31 17 13 26
Commodities and other 8 6 12 8 4 13
Diversification benefit to CIB trading VaR (33)(a) NM (b) NM (b) (26)(a) NM (b) NM (b) 
CIB trading VaR 42 29(b) 61(b) 38 26(b) 58(b) 
Credit portfolio VaR 5 3 7 3 3 4
Diversification benefit to CIB VaR (5)(a) NM (b) NM (b) (2)(a) NM (b) NM (b) 
CIB VaR 42 29(b) 63(b) 39 26(b) 59(b) 
        
CCB VaR 5 1 11 1 — 3
Corporate and other LOB VaR 10 9 13 12 9 14
Diversification benefit to other VaR (4)(a) NM (b) NM (b) (1)(a) NM (b) NM (b) 
Other VaR 11 8(b) 17(b) 12 9(b) 14(b) 
Diversification benefit to CIB and other VaR (10)(a) NM (b) NM (b) (10)(a) NM (b) NM (b) 
Total VaR $ 43 $ 30(b) $ 65(b) $ 41 $ 28(b) $ 62(b) 
(a)Average portfolio VaR is less than the sum of the VaR of the components described above, which is due to portfolio diversification. The diversification effect
reflects that the risks are not perfectly correlated.
(b)Diversification benefit represents the difference between the total VaR and each reported level and the sum of its individual components. Diversification benefit
reflects the non-additive nature of VaR due to imperfect correlation across LOBs, Corporate, and risk types. The maximum and minimum VaR for each portfolio
may have occurred on different trading days than the components and consequently diversification benefit is not meaningful.
Average Total VaR increased $2 million for the year-ended
December 31, 2019 as compared with the prior year. This was
predominantly due to increased exposure in the Fixed Income
risk type, increases in the Equities risk type driven by the
inclusion of Tradeweb following its IPO in the second quarter
of 2019, and increased volatility in the one-year historical
look-back period, partially offset by increases in
diversification benefit.
In addition, average CCB VaR increased by $4 million, driven
by MSR risk management activities. VaR back-testing
The Firm performs daily VaR model back-testing, which
compares the daily Risk Management VaR results with the
daily gains and losses actually recognized on market-risk
related revenue.
The Firm’s definition, of market risk-related gains and losses is
consistent with the definition used by the banking regulators
under Basel III. Under this definition, market risk-related gains
and losses are defined as: gains and losses on the positions
included in the Firm’s Risk Management VaR excluding select
components of revenue such as fees, commissions, certain
valuation adjustments, net interest income, and gains and
losses arising from intraday trading.
122 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
The following chart compares actual daily market risk-related gains and losses with the Firm’s Risk Management VaR for the year
ended December 31, 2019. As the chart presents market risk-related gains and losses related to those positions included in the
Firm’s Risk Management VaR, the results in the table below differ from the results of back-testing disclosed in the Market Risk
section of the Firm’s Basel III Pillar 3 Regulatory Capital Disclosures reports, which are based on Regulatory VaR applied to the
Firm’s covered positions. For the year ended December 31, 2019 the Firm observed eight VaR back-testing exceptions and posted
market risk-related gains on 141 of the 259 days.
Daily Market Risk-Related Gains and Losses
vs. Risk Management VaR (1-day, 95% Confidence level)
Year ended December 31, 2019
Market Risk-Related Gains and Losses
Risk Management VaR
First Quarter
2019Second Quarter
2019Third Quarter
2019Fourth Quarter
2019
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 123
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Other risk measures
Stress testing
Along with VaR, stress testing is an important tool used to
assess risk. While VaR reflects the risk of loss due to adverse
changes in markets using recent historical market behavior,
stress testing reflects the risk of loss from hypothetical changes
in the value of market risk sensitive positions applied
simultaneously. Stress testing measures the Firm’s
vulnerability to losses under a range of stressed but possible
economic and market scenarios. The results are used to
understand the exposures responsible for those potential losses
and are measured against limits.
The Firm’s stress framework covers Corporate and all LOBs
with market risk sensitive positions. The framework is used to
calculate multiple magnitudes of potential stress for both
market rallies and market sell-offs, assuming significant
changes in market factors such as credit spreads, equity prices,
interest rates, currency rates and commodity prices, and
combines them in multiple ways to capture an array of
hypothetical economic and market scenarios.
The Firm generates a number of scenarios that focus on tail
events in specific asset classes and geographies, including how
the event may impact multiple market factors simultaneously.
Scenarios also incorporate specific idiosyncratic risks and
stress basis risk between different products. The flexibility in
the stress framework allows the Firm to construct new
scenarios that can test the outcomes against possible future
stress events. Stress testing results are reported on a regular
basis to senior management of the Firm, as appropriate.
Stress scenarios are governed by an overall stress framework
and are subject to the standards outlined in the Firm’s policies
related to model risk management. Significant changes to the
framework are reviewed as appropriate.
The Firm’s stress testing framework is utilized in calculating
the Firm’s CCAR and other stress test results, which are
reported to the Board of Directors. In addition, stress testing
results are incorporated into the Firm’s Risk Appetite
framework, and are reported periodically to the Board Risk
Committee.
Profit and loss drawdowns
Profit and loss drawdowns are used to highlight trading losses
above certain levels of risk tolerance. A profit and loss
drawdown is a decline in revenue from its year-to-date peak
level. Earnings-at-risk
The effect of interest rate exposure on the Firm’s reported net
income is important as interest rate risk represents one of the
Firm’s significant market risks. Interest rate risk arises not only
from trading activities but also from the Firm’s traditional
banking activities, which include extension of loans and credit
facilities, taking deposits and issuing debt as well as from the
investment securities portfolio. Refer to the table on page 120
for a summary by LOB and Corporate, identifying positions
included in earnings-at-risk.
The CTC Risk Committee establishes the Firm’s structural
interest rate risk policy and related limits, which are subject to
approval by the Board Risk Committee. Treasury and CIO,
working in partnership with the LOBs, calculates the Firm’s
structural interest rate risk profile and reviews it with senior
management, including the CTC Risk Committee. In addition,
oversight of structural interest rate risk is managed through a
dedicated risk function reporting to the CTC. This risk
function is responsible for providing independent oversight
and governance around assumptions and establishing and
monitoring limits for structural interest rate risk. The Firm
manages structural interest rate risk generally through its
investment securities portfolio and interest rate derivatives.
Structural interest rate risk can occur due to a variety of
factors, including:
•Differences in timing among the maturity or repricing of
assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet instruments
•Differences in the amounts of assets, liabilities and off-
balance sheet instruments that are maturing or repricing at
the same time
•Differences in the amounts by which short-term and long-
term market interest rates change (for example, changes in
the slope of the yield curve)
•The impact of changes in the maturity of various assets,
liabilities or off-balance sheet instruments as interest rates
change
The Firm manages interest rate exposure related to its assets
and liabilities on a consolidated, Firmwide basis. Business
units transfer their interest rate risk to Treasury and CIO
through funds transfer pricing, which takes into account the
elements of interest rate exposure that can be risk-managed in
financial markets. These elements include asset and liability
balances and contractual rates of interest, contractual principal
payment schedules, expected prepayment experience, interest
rate reset dates and maturities, rate indices used for repricing,
and any interest rate ceilings or floors for adjustable rate
products. All transfer-pricing assumptions are dynamically
reviewed.
124 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
One way the Firm evaluates its structural interest rate risk is
through earnings-at-risk. Earnings-at-risk estimates the Firm’s
interest rate exposure for a given interest rate scenario. It is
presented as a sensitivity to a baseline, which includes net
interest income and certain interest rate sensitive fees. The
baseline uses market interest rates and in the case of deposits,
pricing assumptions. The Firm conducts simulations of
changes to this baseline for interest rate-sensitive assets and
liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars and other currencies
(“non-U.S. dollar” currencies). These simulations primarily
include retained loans, deposits, deposits with banks,
investment securities, long-term debt and any related interest
rate hedges, and exclude other positions in risk management
VaR and other sensitivity-based measures as described on page
120.
Earnings-at-risk scenarios estimate the potential change to a
net interest income baseline, over the following 12 months,
utilizing multiple assumptions. These scenarios include a
parallel shift involving changes to both short-term and long-
term rates by an equal amount; a steeper yield curve involving
holding short-term rates constant and increasing long-term
rates or decreasing short-term rates and holding long-term
rates constant; and a flatter yield curve involving increasing
short-term rates and holding long-term rates constant or
holding short-term rates constant and decreasing long-term
rates. These scenarios consider many different factors,
including:
•The impact on exposures as a result of instantaneous
changes in interest rates from baseline rates.
•Forecasted balance sheet, as well as modeled prepayment
and reinvestment behavior, but do not include assumptions
about actions that could be taken by the Firm in response to
any such instantaneous rate changes. Mortgage prepayment
assumptions are based on the interest rates used in the
scenarios compared with underlying contractual rates, the
time since origination, and other factors which are updated
periodically based on historical experience.
•The pricing sensitivity of deposits, using normalized deposit
betas which represent the amount by which deposit rates
paid could change upon a given change in market interest
rates over the cycle. The deposit rates paid in these scenarios
differ from actual deposit rates paid, particularly for retail
deposits, due to repricing lags and other factors.
The Firm’s earnings-at-risk scenarios are periodically
evaluated and enhanced in response to changes in the
composition of the Firm’s balance sheet, changes in market
conditions, improvements in the Firm’s simulation and other
factors. While a relevant measure of the Firm’s interest rate
exposure, the earnings at risk analysis does not represent a
forecast of the Firm’s net interest income (Refer to the 2020
Outlook on page 45 for additional information). The Firm’s U.S. dollar sensitivities are presented in the table
below.
December 31,
(in billions) 2019 2018
Parallel shift:
+100 bps shift in rates$ 0.3 $ 0.9
-100 bps shift in rates(2.0) (2.1)
Steeper yield curve:    
+100 bps shift in long-term rates1.2 0.5
-100 bps shift in short-term rates(0.2) (1.2)
Flatter yield curve:    
+100 bps shift in short-term rates(0.9) 0.4
-100 bps shift in long-term rates(1.8) (0.9)
The change in the Firm’s U.S. dollar sensitivities as of
December 31, 2019 compared to December 31, 2018 reflected
updates to the Firm’s baseline for lower short-term and long-
term rates as well as the impact of changes in the Firm’s
balance sheet. The Firm’s sensitivity to short-term rates
reflected updates to the Firm’s baseline for lower rates but
changes in the Firm’s balance sheet more than offset the
impacts of the lower rates. The Firm’s sensitivity to long-term
rates increased as a result of updates to the Firm’s baseline to
reflect lower rates in addition to changes in the Firm’s balance
sheet. The increased sensitivity to long-term rates is more
impactful to the downward scenario due to the Firm’s
sensitivity to mortgage prepayments.
The Firm’s non-U.S. dollar sensitivities are presented in the
table below.
December 31,
(in billions) 2019 2018
Parallel shift:
+100 bps shift in rates$ 0.5 $ 0.5
Flatter yield curve:   
+100 bps shift in short-term rates0.5 0.5
The results of the non-U.S. dollar interest rate scenario
involving a steeper yield curve with long-term rates rising by
100 basis points and short-term rates staying at current levels
were not material to the Firm’s earnings-at-risk at
December 31, 2019 and 2018.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 125
Non-U.S. dollar foreign exchange risk
Non-U.S. dollar FX risk is the risk that changes in foreign
exchange rates affect the value of the Firm’s assets or
liabilities or future results. The Firm has structural non-U.S.
dollar FX exposures arising from capital investments,
forecasted expense and revenue, the investment securities portfolio and non-U.S. dollar-denominated debt issuance.
Treasury and CIO, working in partnership with the LOBs,
primarily manage these risks on behalf of the Firm. Treasury
and CIO may hedge certain of these risks using derivatives.
Other sensitivity-based measures
The Firm quantifies the market risk of certain investment and funding activities by assessing the potential impact on net revenue
and other comprehensive income (“OCI”) due to changes in relevant market variables. Refer to the table Predominant business
activities that give rise to market risk on page 120 for additional information on the positions captured in other sensitivity-based
measures.
The table below represents the potential impact to net revenue or OCI for market risk sensitive instruments that are not included in
VaR or earnings-at-risk. Where appropriate, instruments used for hedging purposes are reported along with the positions being
hedged. The sensitivities disclosed in the table below may not be representative of the actual gain or loss that would have been
realized at December 31, 2019 and 2018, as the movement in market parameters across maturities may vary and are not intended to
imply management’s expectation of future changes in these sensitivities.
Year ended December 31,
Gain/(loss) (in millions)    
Activity Description Sensitivity measure 2019 2018
Investment activities(a)   
Investment management activities Consists of seed capital and related hedges;
and fund co-investments10% decline in market value $ (68)$ (102)
Other investments Consists of privately held equity and other
investments held at fair value10% decline in market value (192) (218)
    
Funding activities    
Non-USD LTD cross-currency basis Represents the basis risk on derivatives used
to hedge the foreign exchange risk on the non-
USD LTD(b)1 basis point parallel
tightening of cross currency
basis(17) (13)
Non-USD LTD hedges foreign currency
(“FX”) exposurePrimarily represents the foreign exchange
revaluation on the fair value of the derivative
hedges(b)10% depreciation of currency 15 17
Derivatives – funding spread risk Impact of changes in the spread related to
derivatives FVA1 basis point parallel increase
in spread(5) (4)
Fair value option elected liabilities –
funding spread riskImpact of changes in the spread related to fair
value option elected liabilities DVA(b)1 basis point parallel increase
in spread29 30
Fair value option elected liabilities –
interest rate sensitivityInterest rate sensitivity on fair value option
liabilities resulting from a change in the
Firm’s own credit spread(b)1 basis point parallel increase
in spread(2) 1
(a)Excludes equity securities without readily determinable fair values that are measured under the measurement alternative. Refer to Note 2 for additional
information.
(b)Impact recognized through OCI.
126 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
COUNTR Y RISK MANAGEMENT
The Firm, through its LOBs and Corporate, may be exposed to
country risk resulting from financial, economic, political or
other significant developments which adversely affect the
value of the Firm’s exposures related to a particular country or
set of countries. The Country Risk Management group actively
monitors the various portfolios which may be impacted by
these developments and measures the extent to which the
Firm’s exposures are diversified given the Firm’s strategy and
risk tolerance relative to a country.
Organization and management
Country Risk Management is an independent risk management
function that assesses, manages and monitors country risk
originated across the Firm.
The Firm’s country risk management function includes the
following activities:
•Establishing policies, procedures and standards consistent
with a comprehensive country risk framework
•Assigning sovereign ratings, assessing country risks and
establishing risk tolerance relative to a country
•Measuring and monitoring country risk exposure and stress
across the Firm
•Managing and approving country limits and reporting
trends and limit breaches to senior management
•Developing surveillance tools, such as signaling models
and ratings indicators, for early identification of potential
country risk concerns
•Providing country risk scenario analysis
Sources and measurement
The Firm is exposed to country risk through its lending and
deposits, investing, and market-making activities, whether
cross-border or locally funded. Country exposure includes
activity with both government and private-sector entities in a
country. Under the Firm’s internal country risk management
approach, attribution of exposure to a specific country is based
on the country where the largest proportion of the assets of the
counterparty, issuer, obligor or guarantor are located or where
the largest proportion of its revenue is derived, which may be
different than the domicile (i.e. legal residence) or country of
incorporation of the counterparty, issuer, obligor or guarantor.
Country exposures are generally measured by considering the
Firm’s risk to an immediate default of the counterparty, issuer,
obligor or guarantor, with zero recovery. Assumptions are
sometimes required in determining the measurement and
allocation of country exposure, particularly in the case of
certain non-linear or index exposures. The use of different
measurement approaches or assumptions could affect the
amount of reported country exposure. Under the Firm’s internal country risk measurement
framework:
•Lending exposures are measured at the total committed
amount (funded and unfunded), net of the allowance for
credit losses and eligible cash and marketable securities
collateral received
•Deposits are measured as the cash balances placed with
central and commercial banks
•Securities financing exposures are measured at their
receivable balance, net of eligible collateral received
•Debt and equity securities are measured at the fair value of
all positions, including both long and short positions
•Counterparty exposure on derivative receivables is
measured at the derivative’s fair value, net of the fair value
of the eligible collateral received
•Credit derivatives protection purchased and sold is reported
based on the underlying reference entity and is measured at
the notional amount of protection purchased or sold, net of
the fair value of the recognized derivative receivable or
payable. Credit derivatives protection purchased and sold in
the Firm’s market-making activities is measured on a net
basis, as such activities often result in selling and
purchasing protection related to the same underlying
reference entity; this reflects the manner in which the Firm
manages these exposures
Some activities may create contingent or indirect exposure
related to a country (for example, providing clearing services
or secondary exposure to collateral on securities financing
receivables). These exposures are managed in the normal
course of business through the Firm’s credit, market, and
operational risk governance, rather than through Country Risk
Management.
The Firm’s internal country risk reporting differs from the
reporting provided under the FFIEC bank regulatory
requirements. Refer to Cross-border outstandings on page 306
of the 2019 Form 10-K for further information on the FFIEC’s
reporting methodology.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 127
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Stress testing
Stress testing is an important component of the Firm’s country
risk management framework, which aims to estimate and limit
losses arising from a country crisis by measuring the impact of
adverse asset price movements to a country based on market
shocks combined with counterparty specific assumptions.
Country Risk Management periodically designs and runs
tailored stress scenarios to test vulnerabilities to individual
countries or sets of countries in response to specific or
potential market events, sector performance concerns,
sovereign actions and geopolitical risks. These tailored stress
results are used to inform potential risk reduction across the
Firm, as necessary.
Risk reporting
Country exposure and stress are measured and reported
regularly, and used by Country Risk Management to identify
trends, and monitor high usages and breaches against limits.
For country risk management purposes, the Firm may report
exposure to jurisdictions that are not fully autonomous,
including Special Administrative Regions (“SAR”) and
dependent territories, separately from the independent
sovereign states with which they are associated.
The following table presents the Firm’s top 20 exposures by
country (excluding the U.S.) as of December 31, 2019, and
their comparative exposures as of December 31, 2018. The
selection of countries represents the Firm’s largest total
exposures by country, based on the Firm’s internal country risk
management approach, and does not represent the Firm’s view
of any actual or potentially adverse credit conditions.
Country exposures may fluctuate from period to period due to
client activity and market flows. The increase in exposure in
Japan is largely due to increased cash balances placed with the
central bank of Japan, driven by client activity. 
Top 20 country exposures (excluding the U.S.)(a)
December 31,
(in billions) 2019 2018(e)
 Lending
and
deposits(b)Trading and
investing(c) Other(d)Total
exposureTotal
exposure
Germany $ 45.8$ 5.4$ 0.4$ 51.6$ 62.1
Japan 35.5 8.0 0.3 43.8 29.1
United
Kingdom 31.0 9.9 1.5 42.4 40.7
China 11.3 6.5 1.4 19.2 19.3
Switzerland 10.9 0.8 6.6 18.3 12.8
France 10.7 6.5 0.9 18.1 17.9
Canada 12.0 1.1 0.1 13.2 14.3
Luxembourg 12.1 0.8 — 12.9 11.0
Australia 6.9 4.8 — 11.7 13.0
India 4.6 3.6 3.1 11.3 11.8
Netherlands 4.4 0.8 3.8 9.0 5.8
Brazil 4.8 2.4 — 7.2 7.3
Singapore 4.3 1.6 0.9 6.8 6.8
Italy 2.4 4.2 0.2 6.8 6.4
South Korea 4.5 1.8 0.1 6.4 7.6
Spain 3.2 2.6 — 5.8 5.1
Saudi Arabia 4.7 0.5 — 5.2 5.3
Hong Kong
SAR 2.6 1.7 0.8 5.1 5.4
Mexico 3.9 0.8 — 4.7 5.5
Malaysia 1.8 0.8 0.8 3.4 4.3
(a)Top 20 country exposures reflect approximately 88% and 87% of total
Firmwide non-U.S. exposure, where exposure is attributed to a specific
country, at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
(b)Lending and deposits includes loans and accrued interest receivable (net of
eligible collateral and the allowance for loan losses), deposits with banks
(including central banks), acceptances, other monetary assets, issued
letters of credit net of participations, and unused commitments to extend
credit. Excludes intra-day and operating exposures, such as those from
settlement and clearing activities.
(c)Includes market-making inventory, AFS securities, and counterparty
exposure on derivative and securities financings net of eligible collateral
and hedging. Includes exposure from single reference entity (“single-
name”), index and other multiple reference entity transactions for which
one or more of the underlying reference entities is in a country listed in the
above table.
(d)Predominantly includes physical commodity inventory.
(e)The country rankings presented in the table as of December 31, 2018, are
based on the country rankings of the corresponding exposures at
December 31, 2019, not actual rankings of such exposures at
December 31, 2018.
128 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
OPERA TIONAL  RISK MANAGEMENT
Operational risk is the risk associated with an adverse outcome
resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes or
systems; human factors; or external events impacting the
Firm’s processes or systems; it includes compliance, conduct,
legal, and estimations and model risk. Operational risk is
inherent in the Firm’s activities and can manifest itself in
various ways, including fraudulent acts, business interruptions,
cybersecurity attacks, inappropriate employee behavior, failure
to comply with applicable laws and regulations or failure of
vendors to perform in accordance with their agreements.
Operational Risk Management attempts to manage operational
risk at appropriate levels in light of the Firm’s financial
position, the characteristics of its businesses, and the markets
and regulatory environments in which it operates.
Operational Risk Management Framework
The Firm’s Compliance, Conduct, and Operational Risk
(“CCOR”) Management Framework is designed to enable the
Firm to govern, identify, measure, monitor and test, manage
and report on the Firm’s operational risk.
Operational Risk Governance
The LOBs and Corporate hold ownership, responsibility and
accountability for the management of operational risk. The
Control Management Organization, which consists of control
managers within each LOB and Corporate, is responsible for
the day-to-day execution of the CCOR Framework and the
evaluation of the effectiveness of their control environments to
determine where targeted remediation efforts may be required.
LOBs and Corporate control committees are responsible for
reviewing data that indicates the quality and stability of
processes, addressing key operational risk issues, focusing on
processes with control concerns, and overseeing control
remediation.
The Firm’s Global Chief Compliance Officer (“CCO”) and
FRE for Operational Risk is responsible for defining the
CCOR Management Framework and establishing minimum
standards for its execution. Operational Risk Officers
(“OROs”) report to both the LOB CROs and to the FRE for
Operational Risk, and are independent of the respective
businesses or functions they oversee.
The Firm’s CCOR Management policy establishes the CCOR
Management Framework for the Firm. The CCOR
Management Framework is articulated in the Risk Governance
and Oversight Policy which is reviewed and approved by the
Board Risk Committee periodically.
Operational Risk identification
The Firm utilizes a structured risk and control self-assessment
process that is executed by the LOBs and Corporate. As part of
this process, the LOBs and Corporate evaluate the
effectiveness of their control environment to assess where
controls have failed, and to determine where remediation
efforts may be required. CCOR Management provides oversight of these activities and may also perform
independent assessments of significant operational risk events
and areas of concentrated or emerging risk.
Operational Risk Measurement
CCOR Management performs independent risk assessments of
the Firm’s operational risks, which includes assessing the
effectiveness of the control environment and reporting the
results to senior management.
In addition, operational risk measurement includes operational
risk-based capital and operational risk loss projections under
both baseline and stressed conditions.
The primary component of the operational risk capital estimate
is the Loss Distribution Approach (“LDA”) statistical model,
which simulates the frequency and severity of future
operational risk loss projections based on historical data. The
LDA model is used to estimate an aggregate operational risk
loss over a one-year time horizon, at a 99.9% confidence level.
The LDA model incorporates actual internal operational risk
losses in the quarter following the period in which those losses
were realized, and the calculation generally continues to reflect
such losses even after the issues or business activities giving
rise to the losses have been remediated or reduced.
As required under the Basel III capital framework, the Firm’s
operational risk-based capital methodology, which uses the
Advanced Measurement Approach (“AMA”), incorporates
internal and external losses as well as management’s view of
tail risk captured through operational risk scenario analysis,
and evaluation of key business environment and internal
control metrics. The Firm does not reflect the impact of
insurance in its AMA estimate of operational risk capital.
The Firm considers the impact of stressed economic conditions
on operational risk losses and develops a forward looking view
of material operational risk events that may occur in a stressed
environment. The Firm’s operational risk stress testing
framework is utilized in calculating results for the Firm’s
CCAR and other stress testing processes.
Refer to Capital Risk Management section, on pages 85–92 for
information related to operational risk RWA, and CCAR.
Operational Risk Monitoring and testing
The results of risk assessments performed by CCOR
Management are leveraged as one of the key criteria in the
independent monitoring and testing of the LOBs and
Corporate’s compliance with laws and regulation. Through
monitoring and testing, CCOR Management independently
identifies areas of operational risk and tests the effectiveness of
controls within the LOBs and Corporate.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 129
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Management of Operational Risk
The operational risk areas or issues identified through
monitoring and testing are escalated to the LOBs and
Corporate to be remediated through action plans, as needed, to
mitigate operational risk. CCOR Management may advise the
LOBs and Corporate in the development and implementation
of action plans.
Operational Risk Reporting
Escalation of risks is a fundamental expectation for employees
at the Firm. Risks identified by CCOR Management are
escalated to the appropriate LOB and Corporate Control
Committees, as needed. CCOR Management has established
standards to ensure that consistent operational risk reporting
and operational risk reports are produced on a Firmwide basis
as well as by LOBs and Corporate.  Reporting includes the
evaluation of key risk indicators and key performance
indicators against established thresholds as well as the
assessment of different types of operational risk against stated
risk appetite. The standards reinforce escalation protocols to
senior management and to the Board of Directors.
Subcategories and examples of operational risks
Operational risk can manifest itself in various ways.
Operational risk subcategories such as Compliance risk,
Conduct risk, Legal risk, and Estimations and Model risk as
well as other operational risks, can lead to losses which are
captured through the Firm’s operational risk measurement
processes. Refer to pages 132, 133, and 134, respectively for
more information on Compliance, Conduct, Legal, and
Estimations and Model risk. Details on other select examples
of operational risks are provided below.
Cybersecurity risk
Cybersecurity risk is an important, continuous and evolving
focus for the Firm. The Firm devotes significant resources to
protecting and continuing to improve the security of its
computer systems, software, networks and other technology
assets. The Firm’s security efforts are designed to protect
against, among other things, cybersecurity attacks by
unauthorized parties attempting to obtain access to confidential
information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage
systems or cause other damage. The Firm continues to make
significant investments in enhancing its cyberdefense
capabilities and to strengthen its partnerships with the
appropriate government and law enforcement agencies and
other businesses in order to understand the full spectrum of
cybersecurity risks in the operating environment, enhance
defenses and improve resiliency against cybersecurity threats.
The Firm actively participates in discussions of cybersecurity
risks with law enforcement, government officials, peer and
industry groups, and has significantly increased efforts to
educate employees and certain clients on the topic.
Third parties with which the Firm does business or that
facilitate the Firm’s business activities (e.g., vendors,
exchanges, clearing houses, central depositories, and financial
intermediaries) are also sources of cybersecurity risk to the Firm. Third party cybersecurity incidents such as
system breakdowns or failures, misconduct by the employees
of such parties, or cyberattacks could affect their ability to
deliver a product or service to the Firm or result in lost or
compromised information of the Firm or its clients. Clients are
also sources of cybersecurity risk to the Firm, particularly
when their activities and systems are beyond the Firm’s own
security and control systems. As a result, the Firm engages in
regular and ongoing discussions with certain vendors and
clients regarding cybersecurity risks and opportunities to
improve security. However, where cybersecurity incidents
occur as a result of client failures to maintain the security of
their own systems and processes, clients are responsible for
losses incurred.
To protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the
Firm’s infrastructure, resources and information, the Firm
maintains a cybersecurity program designed to prevent, detect,
and respond to cyberattacks. The Audit Committee is updated
periodically on the Firm’s Information Security Program,
recommended changes, cybersecurity policies and practices,
ongoing efforts to improve security, as well as its efforts
regarding significant cybersecurity events. In addition, the
Firm has a cybersecurity incident response plan (“IRP”)
designed to enable the Firm to respond to attempted
cybersecurity incidents, coordinate such responses with law
enforcement and other government agencies, and notify clients
and customers, as applicable. Among other key focus areas, the
IRP is designed to mitigate the risk of insider trading
connected to a cybersecurity incident, and includes various
escalation points.
The Cybersecurity and Technology Control functions are
responsible for governance and oversight of the Firm’s
Information Security Program. In partnership with the Firm’s
LOBs and Corporate, the Cybersecurity and Technology
Control organization identifies information security risk issues
and oversees programs for the technological protection of the
Firm’s information resources including applications,
infrastructure as well as confidential and personal information
related to the Firm’s customers. The Cybersecurity and
Technology organization is comprised of business aligned
information security managers that are supported within the
organization by the following products that execute the
Information Security Program for the Firm:
•Cyber Defense & Fraud
•Data Management, Protection & Privacy
•Identity & Access Management
•Governance & Controls
•Production Management & Resiliency
•Software & Platform Enablement
The Global Cybersecurity and Technology Control governance
structure is designed to identify, escalate, and mitigate
information security risks. This structure uses key governance
forums to disseminate information and monitor
130 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
technology efforts. These forums are established at multiple
levels throughout the Firm and include representatives from
each LOB and Corporate. Reports containing overviews of key
technology risks and efforts to enhance related controls are
produced for these forums, and are reviewed by management
at multiple levels. The forums are used to escalate information
security risks or other matters as appropriate.
The IRM function provides oversight of the activities designed
to identify, assess, measure, and mitigate cybersecurity risk.
The Firm’s Security Awareness Program includes training that
reinforces the Firm's Information Technology Risk and
Security Management policies, standards and practices, as well
as the expectation that employees comply with these policies.
The Security Awareness Program engages personnel through
training on how to identify potential cybersecurity risks and
protect the Firm’s resources and information. This training is
mandatory for all employees globally on a periodic basis, and
it is supplemented by Firmwide testing initiatives, including
periodic phishing tests. Finally, the Firm’s Global Privacy
Program requires all employees to take periodic awareness
training on data privacy. This privacy-focused training includes
information about confidentiality and security, as well as
responding to unauthorized access to or use of information.
Business and technology resiliency risk
Business disruptions can occur due to forces beyond the Firm’s
control such as severe weather, power or telecommunications
loss, accidents, failure of a third party to provide expected
services, cyberattack, flooding, transit strikes, terrorism, health
emergencies, the spread of infectious diseases or pandemics.
The safety of the Firm’s employees and customers is of the
highest priority. The Firmwide resiliency program is intended
to enable the Firm to recover its critical business functions and
supporting assets (i.e., staff, technology and facilities) in the
event of a business interruption. The program includes
governance, awareness training, and testing of recovery
strategies, as well as strategic and tactical initiatives to
identify, assess, and manage business interruption and public
safety risks. The strength and proficiency of the Firmwide
resiliency program has played an integral role in maintaining
the Firm’s business operations during and after various events.
Payment fraud risk
Payment fraud risk is the risk of external and internal parties
unlawfully obtaining personal monetary benefit through
misdirected or otherwise improper payment. The risk of
payment fraud remains at a heightened level across the
industry. The complexities of these incidents and the strategies
used by perpetrators continue to evolve. Under the Payments
Control Program, methods are developed for managing the
risk, implementing controls, and providing employee and
client education and awareness trainings. The Firm’s
monitoring of customer behavior is periodically evaluated and enhanced in an effort to detect and mitigate new
strategies implemented by fraud perpetrators.
Third-party outsourcing risk
The Firm‘s Third-Party Oversight (“TPO”) and Inter-affiliates
Oversight (“IAO”) framework assist the LOBs and Corporate
in selecting, documenting, onboarding, monitoring and
managing their supplier relationships including services
provided by affiliates. The objectives of the TPO framework is
to hold suppliers to a high level of operational performance
and to mitigate key risks including data loss and business
disruption. The Corporate Third-Party Oversight group
is responsible for Firmwide training, monitoring, reporting and
standards.
Insurance
One of the ways in which operational risk may be mitigated is
through insurance maintained by the Firm. The Firm purchases
insurance from commercial insurers and maintains a wholly-
owned captive insurer, Park Assurance Company. Insurance
may also be required by third parties with whom the Firm does
business.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 131
Management’ s discussion and analysis
COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT
Compliance risk, a subcategory of operational risk, is the risk
of failing to comply with laws, rules, regulations or codes of
conduct and standards of self-regulatory organizations.
Overview
Each LOB and Corporate hold primary ownership of and
accountability for managing compliance risk. The Firm’s
Compliance Organization (“Compliance”), which is
independent of the LOBs, provides independent review,
monitoring and oversight of business operations with a focus
on compliance with the legal and regulatory obligations
applicable to the delivery of the Firm’s products and services
to clients and customers.
These compliance risks relate to a wide variety of legal and
regulatory obligations, depending on the LOB and the
jurisdiction, and include risks related to financial products and
services, relationships and interactions with clients and
customers, and employee activities. For example, compliance
risks include those associated with anti-money laundering
compliance, trading activities, market conduct, and complying
with the rules and regulations related to the offering of
products and services across jurisdictional borders.
Compliance risk is also inherent in the Firm’s fiduciary
activities, including the failure to exercise the applicable
standard of care (such as the duties of loyalty or care), to act in
the best interest of clients and customers or to treat clients and
customers fairly.
Other functions provide oversight of significant regulatory
obligations that are specific to their respective areas of
responsibility.
CCOR Management implements policies and standards
designed to govern, identify, measure, monitor and test,
manage, and report compliance risk. Governance and oversight
Compliance is led by the Firm’s Global CCO and FRE for
Operational Risk.
The Firm maintains oversight and coordination of its
compliance risk through the implementation of the CCOR Risk
Management Framework. The Firm’s CCO also provides
regular updates to the Audit Committee and the Board Risk
Committee. In addition, certain Special Purpose Committees
of the Board have previously been established to oversee the
Firm’s compliance with regulatory Consent Orders.
Code of Conduct
The Firm has a Code of Conduct (the “Code”) that sets forth
the Firm’s expectation that employees will conduct themselves
with integrity at all times and provides the principles that
govern employee conduct with clients, customers, shareholders
and one another, as well as with the markets and communities
in which the Firm does business. The Code requires employees
to promptly report any known or suspected violation of the
Code, any internal Firm policy, or any law or regulation
applicable to the Firm’s business. It also requires employees to
report any illegal conduct, or conduct that violates the
underlying principles of the Code, by any of the Firm’s
employees, clients, customers, suppliers, contract workers,
business partners, or agents. All newly hired employees are
assigned Code training and current employees are periodically
assigned Code training on an ongoing basis. Employees are
required to affirm their compliance with the Code periodically.
Employees can report any potential or actual violations of the
Code through the Code Reporting Hotline by phone or the
internet. The Hotline is anonymous, except in certain non-U.S.
jurisdictions where laws prohibit anonymous reporting, and is
available at all times globally, with translation services. It is
administered by an outside service provider. The Code
prohibits retaliation against anyone who raises an issue or
concern in good faith. Periodically, the Audit Committee
receives reports on the Code of Conduct program.
132 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
CONDUCT  RISK MANAGEMENT
Conduct risk, a subcategory of operational risk, is the risk that
any action or inaction by an employee or employees could lead
to unfair client or customer outcomes, impact the integrity of
the markets in which the Firm operates, or compromise the
Firm’s reputation.
Overview
Each LOB and Corporate is accountable for identifying and
managing its conduct risk to provide appropriate engagement,
ownership and sustainability of a culture consistent with the
Firm’s How We Do Business Principles (the “Principles”). The
Principles serve as a guide for how employees are expected to
conduct themselves. With the Principles serving as a guide, the
Firm’s Code sets out the Firm’s expectations for each
employee and provides information and resources to help
employees conduct business ethically and in compliance with
the laws everywhere the Firm operates. Refer to Compliance
Risk Management on page 132 for further discussion of the
Code.
Governance and oversight
The Conduct Risk Program is governed by the CCOR
Management policy, which establishes the framework for
governance, identification, measurement, monitoring and
testing, management and reporting conduct risk in the Firm. The Conduct Risk Steering Committee (CRSC) provides
oversight of the Firm’s conduct initiatives to develop a more
holistic view of conduct risks and to connect key programs
across the Firm in order to identify opportunities and emerging
areas of focus.
Each committee of the Board oversees conduct risks within its
scope of responsibilities, and the CRSC may escalate to such
committees as appropriate.
Conduct risk management encompasses various aspects of
people management practices throughout the employee life
cycle, including recruiting, onboarding, training and
development, performance management, promotion and
compensation processes. Each LOB, Treasury and CIO, and
designated corporate functions completes an assessment of
conduct risk periodically, reviews metrics and issues which
may involve conduct risk, and provides business conduct
training as appropriate.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 133
Management’ s discussion and analysis
LEGAL  RISK MANAGEMENT
Legal risk, a subcategory of operational risk, is the risk of loss
primarily caused by the actual or alleged failure to meet legal
obligations that arise from the rule of law in jurisdictions in
which the Firm operates, agreements with clients and
customers, and products and services offered by the Firm.
Overview
The global Legal function (“Legal”) provides legal services
and advice to the Firm. Legal is responsible for managing the
Firm’s exposure to legal risk by:
•managing actual and potential litigation and enforcement
matters, including internal reviews and investigations
related to such matters
•advising on products and services, including contract
negotiation and documentation
•advising on offering and marketing documents and new
business initiatives
•managing dispute resolution
•interpreting existing laws, rules and regulations, and
advising on changes thereto
•advising on advocacy in connection with contemplated and
proposed laws, rules and regulations, and •providing legal advice to the LOBs and Corporate, in
alignment with the lines of defense described under
Firmwide Risk Management on pages 79–83.
Legal selects, engages and manages outside counsel for the
Firm on all matters in which outside counsel is engaged. In
addition, Legal advises the Firm’s Conflicts Office which
reviews the Firm’s wholesale transactions that may have the
potential to create conflicts of interest for the Firm.
Governance and oversight
The Firm’s General Counsel reports to the CEO and is a
member of the Operating Committee, the Firmwide Risk
Committee and the Firmwide Control Committee. The Firm’s
General Counsel and other members of Legal report on
significant legal matters to the Firm’s Board of Directors and
periodically to the Audit Committee. 
Legal serves on and advises various committees (including
new business initiative and reputation risk committees) and
advises the Firm’s LOBs and Corporate on potential reputation
risk issues.
134 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
ESTIMA TIONS AND MODEL  RISK MANAGEMENT
Estimations and Model risk, a subcategory of operational risk,
is the potential for adverse consequences from decisions based
on incorrect or misused estimation outputs.
The Firm uses models and other analytical and judgment-based
estimations across various businesses and functions. The
estimation methods are of varying levels of sophistication and
are used for many purposes, such as the valuation of positions
and measurement of risk, assessing regulatory capital
requirements, conducting stress testing, and making business
decisions. A dedicated independent function, Model Risk
Governance and Review (“MRGR”), defines and governs the
Firm’s policies relating to the management of model risk and
risks associated with certain analytical and judgment-based
estimations, such as those used in risk management, budget
forecasting and capital planning and analysis.
The governance of analytical and judgment-based estimations
within MRGR’s scope follows a consistent approach to the
approach used for models, which is described in detail below.
Model risks are owned by the users of the models within the
Firm based on the specific purposes of such models. Users and
developers of models are responsible for developing,
implementing and testing their models, as well as referring
models to the Model Risk function for review and approval.
Once models have been approved, model users and developers
are responsible for maintaining a robust operating
environment, and must monitor and evaluate the performance
of the models on an ongoing basis. Model users and
developers may seek to enhance models in response to changes
in the portfolios and in product and market developments, as
well as to capture improvements in available modeling
techniques and systems capabilities. Models are tiered based on an internal standard according to
their complexity, the exposure associated with the model and
the Firm’s reliance on the model. This tiering is subject to the
approval of the Model Risk function. In its review of a model,
the Model Risk function considers whether the model is
suitable for the specific purposes for which it will be used.
When reviewing a model, the Model Risk function analyzes
and challenges the model methodology and the reasonableness
of model assumptions, and may perform or require additional
testing, including back-testing of model outcomes. Model
reviews are approved by the appropriate level of management
within the Model Risk function based on the relevant model
tier.
Under the Firm’s Estimations and Model Risk Management
Policy, the Model Risk function reviews and approves new
models, as well as material changes to existing models, prior to
implementation in the operating environment. In certain
circumstances exceptions may be granted to the Firm’s policy
to allow a model to be used prior to review or approval. The
Model Risk function may also require the user to take
appropriate actions to mitigate the model risk if it is to be used
in the interim. These actions will depend on the model and
may include, for example, limitation of trading activity.
Refer to Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm on
pages 136–138 and Note 2 for a summary of model-based
valuations and other valuation techniques.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 135
Management’ s discussion and analysis
CRITICAL  ACCOUNTING ESTIMA TES USED BY  THE FIRM
JPMorgan Chase’s accounting policies and use of estimates are
integral to understanding its reported results. The Firm’s most
complex accounting estimates require management’s judgment
to ascertain the appropriate carrying value of assets and
liabilities. The Firm has established policies and control
procedures intended to ensure that estimation methods,
including any judgments made as part of such methods, are
well-controlled, independently reviewed and applied
consistently from period to period. The methods used and
judgments made reflect, among other factors, the nature of the
assets or liabilities and the related business and risk
management strategies, which may vary across the Firm’s
businesses and portfolios. In addition, the policies and
procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing
methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. The Firm
believes its estimates for determining the carrying value of its
assets and liabilities are appropriate. The following is a brief
description of the Firm’s critical accounting estimates
involving significant judgments.
Allowance for credit losses
The Firm’s allowance for credit losses covers the retained
consumer and wholesale loan portfolios, as well as the Firm’s
wholesale and certain consumer lending-related commitments.
The allowance for loan losses is intended to adjust the carrying
value of the Firm’s loans to reflect probable credit losses
inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date.
Similarly, the allowance for lending-related commitments is
established to cover probable credit losses inherent in the
lending-related commitments portfolio as of the balance sheet
date.
The allowance for credit losses includes a formula-based
component, an asset-specific component, and a component
related to PCI loans. The determination of each of these
components involves significant judgment on a number of
matters. Refer to Allowance for credit losses on pages 116–117
and Note 13 for further information on these components,
areas of judgment and methodologies used in establishing the
Firm’s allowance for credit losses.
Allowance for credit losses sensitivity
The Firm’s allowance for credit losses is sensitive to numerous
factors, which may differ depending on the portfolio. Changes
in economic conditions or in the Firm’s assumptions and
estimates could affect its estimate of probable credit losses
inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. The Firm
uses its best judgment to assess these economic conditions and
loss data in estimating the allowance for credit losses and these
estimates are subject to periodic refinement based on changes
to underlying external or Firm-specific historical data. Refer to
Note 13 for further discussion.
To illustrate the potential magnitude of certain alternate
judgments, the Firm estimates that changes in the following
inputs would have the following effects on the Firm’s modeled
credit loss estimates as of December 31, 2019, without
consideration of any offsetting or correlated effects of other
inputs in the Firm’s allowance for loan losses: •A combined 5% decline in housing prices and a 100 basis
point increase in unemployment rates from expectations
could imply:
◦an increase to modeled credit loss estimates of
approximately $250 million for PCI loans.
◦an increase to modeled annual credit loss estimates of
approximately $50 million for residential real estate
loans, excluding PCI loans.
•For credit card loans, a 100 basis point increase in
unemployment rates from expectations could imply an
increase to modeled annual credit loss estimates of
approximately $850 million.
•An increase in probability of default (“PD”) factors
consistent with a one-notch downgrade in the Firm’s
internal risk ratings for its entire wholesale loan portfolio
could imply an increase in the Firm’s modeled credit loss
estimates of approximately $1.6 billion.
•A 100 basis point increase in estimated loss given default
(“LGD”) for the Firm’s entire wholesale loan portfolio
could imply an increase in the Firm’s modeled credit loss
estimates of approximately $200 million.
The purpose of these sensitivity analyses is to provide an
indication of the isolated impacts of hypothetical alternative
assumptions on modeled loss estimates. The changes in the
inputs presented above are not intended to imply
management’s expectation of future deterioration of those risk
factors. In addition, these analyses are not intended to estimate
changes in the overall allowance for loan losses, which would
also be influenced by the judgment management applies to the
modeled loss estimates to reflect the uncertainty and
imprecision of these modeled loss estimates based on then-
current circumstances and conditions.
It is difficult to estimate how potential changes in specific
factors might affect the overall allowance for credit losses
because management considers a variety of factors and inputs
in estimating the allowance for credit losses. Changes in these
factors and inputs may not occur at the same rate and may not
be consistent across all geographies or product types, and
changes in factors may be directionally inconsistent, such that
improvement in one factor may offset deterioration in other
factors. In addition, it is difficult to predict how changes in
specific economic conditions or assumptions could affect
borrower behavior or other factors considered by management
in estimating the allowance for credit losses. Given the process
the Firm follows and the judgments made in evaluating the risk
factors related to its loss estimates, management believes that
its current estimate of the allowance for credit losses is
appropriate.
Fair value
JPMorgan Chase carries a portion of its assets and liabilities at
fair value. The majority of such assets and liabilities are
measured at fair value on a recurring basis, including,
derivatives and structured note products. Certain assets and
liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis,
including certain mortgage, home equity and other
136 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
loans, where the carrying value is based on the fair value of the
underlying collateral.
Assets measured at fair value
The following table includes the Firm’s assets measured at fair
value and the portion of such assets that are classified within
level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. Refer to Note 2 for further
information.
December 31, 2019
(in billions, except ratios)Total assets at
fair valueTotal level 3
assets
Trading debt and equity instruments $ 361.3 $ 3.4
Derivative receivables(a) 49.7 4.7
Trading assets 411.0 8.1
AFS securities 350.7 —
Loans 7.1 —
MSRs 4.7 4.7
Other 29.3 0.7
Total assets measured at fair value
on a recurring basis 802.8 13.5
Total assets measured at fair value on a
nonrecurring basis 4.8 1.3
Total assets measured at fair value $ 807.6 $ 14.8
Total Firm assets $ 2,687.4
Level 3 assets as a percentage of total
Firm assets(a) 0.6%
Level 3 assets as a percentage of total
Firm assets at fair value(a) 1.8%
(a)For purposes of the table above, the derivative receivables total reflects the impact of
netting adjustments; however, the $4.7 billion of derivative receivables classified as
level 3 does not reflect the netting adjustment as such netting is not relevant to a
presentation based on the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset. The
level 3 balances would be reduced if netting were applied, including the netting
benefit associated with cash collateral.
Valuation
Details of the Firm’s processes for determining fair value are
set out in Note 2. Estimating fair value requires the application
of judgment. The type and level of judgment required is
largely dependent on the amount of observable market
information available to the Firm. For instruments valued
using internally developed valuation models and other
valuation techniques that use significant unobservable inputs
and are therefore classified within level 3 of the valuation
hierarchy, judgments used to estimate fair value are more
significant than those required when estimating the fair value
of instruments classified within levels 1 and 2.
In arriving at an estimate of fair value for an instrument within
level 3, management must first determine the appropriate
valuation technique to use. Second, the lack of observability of
certain significant inputs requires management to assess all
relevant empirical data in deriving valuation inputs including,
for example, transaction details, yield curves, interest rates,
prepayment rates, default rates, volatilities, correlations, equity
or debt prices, valuations of comparable instruments, foreign
exchange rates and credit curves. Refer to Note 2 for a further
discussion of the valuation of level 3 instruments, including
unobservable inputs used.
For instruments classified in levels 2 and 3, management
judgment must be applied to assess the appropriate level of
valuation adjustments to reflect counterparty credit quality, the Firm’s creditworthiness, market funding rates, liquidity
considerations, unobservable parameters, and for portfolios
that meet specified criteria, the size of the net open risk
position. The judgments made are typically affected by the
type of product and its specific contractual terms, and the level
of liquidity for the product or within the market as a whole.
Refer to Note 2 for a further discussion of valuation
adjustments applied by the Firm.
Imprecision in estimating unobservable market inputs or other
factors can affect the amount of gain or loss recorded for a
particular position. Furthermore, while the Firm believes its
valuation methods are appropriate and consistent with those of
other market participants, the methods and assumptions used
reflect management judgment and may vary across the Firm’s
businesses and portfolios.
The Firm uses various methodologies and assumptions in the
determination of fair value. The use of methodologies or
assumptions different than those used by the Firm could result
in a different estimate of fair value at the reporting date. Refer
to Note 2 for a detailed discussion of the Firm’s valuation
process and hierarchy, and its determination of fair value for
individual financial instruments.
Goodwill impairment
Under U.S. GAAP, goodwill must be allocated to reporting units
and tested for impairment at least annually. The Firm’s process
and methodology used to conduct goodwill impairment testing is
described in Note 15.
Management applies significant judgment when testing goodwill
for impairment. The goodwill associated with each business
combination is allocated to the related reporting units for
goodwill impairment testing.
For the year ended December 31, 2019, the Firm reviewed
current economic conditions, estimated market cost of equity, as
well as actual and projections of business performance for all its
businesses. Based upon such reviews, the Firm concluded that
the goodwill allocated to its reporting units was not impaired as
of December 31, 2019. The fair values of these reporting units
exceeded their carrying values by approximately 15% or higher
and did not indicate a significant risk of goodwill impairment
based on current projections and valuations.
The projections for all of the Firm’s reporting units are
consistent with management’s current short-term business
outlook assumptions, and in the longer term, incorporate a set of
macroeconomic assumptions and the Firm’s best estimates of
long-term growth and returns on equity of its businesses. Where
possible, the Firm uses third-party and peer data to benchmark
its assumptions and estimates.
Refer to Note 15 for additional information on goodwill,
including the goodwill impairment assessment as of
December 31, 2019.
Credit card rewards liability
JPMorgan Chase offers credit cards with various rewards
programs which allow cardholders to earn rewards points
based on their account activity and the terms and conditions of
the rewards program. Generally, there are no limits on the
points that an eligible cardholder can earn, nor
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 137
Management’ s discussion and analysis
do the points expire, and the points can be redeemed for a
variety of rewards, including cash (predominantly in the form
of account credits), gift cards and travel. The Firm maintains a
rewards liability which represents the estimated cost of
rewards points earned and expected to be redeemed by
cardholders. The rewards liability is sensitive to various
assumptions, including cost per point and redemption rates for
each of the various rewards programs, which are evaluated
periodically. The liability is accrued as the cardholder earns the
benefit and is reduced when the cardholder redeems points.
This liability was $6.4 billion and $5.8 billion at December 31,
2019 and 2018, respectively, and is recorded in accounts
payable and other liabilities on the Consolidated balance
sheets.
Income taxes
JPMorgan Chase is subject to the income tax laws of the
various jurisdictions in which it operates, including U.S.
federal, state and local, and non-U.S. jurisdictions. These laws
are often complex and may be subject to different
interpretations. To determine the financial statement impact of
accounting for income taxes, including the provision for
income tax expense and unrecognized tax benefits, JPMorgan
Chase must make assumptions and judgments about how to
interpret and apply these complex tax laws to numerous
transactions and business events, as well as make judgments
regarding the timing of when certain items may affect taxable
income in the U.S. and non-U.S. tax jurisdictions.
JPMorgan Chase’s interpretations of tax laws around the world
are subject to review and examination by the various taxing
authorities in the jurisdictions where the Firm operates, and
disputes may occur regarding its view on a tax position. These
disputes over interpretations with the various taxing authorities
may be settled by audit, administrative appeals or adjudication
in the court systems of the tax jurisdictions in which the Firm
operates. JPMorgan Chase regularly reviews whether it may be
assessed additional income taxes as a result of the resolution of
these matters, and the Firm records additional reserves as
appropriate. In addition, the Firm may revise its estimate of
income taxes due to changes in income tax laws, legal
interpretations, and business strategies. It is possible that
revisions in the Firm’s estimate of income taxes may
materially affect the Firm’s results of operations in any
reporting period.
The Firm’s provision for income taxes is composed of current
and deferred taxes. Deferred taxes arise from differences
between assets and liabilities measured for financial reporting
versus income tax return purposes. Deferred tax assets are
recognized if, in management’s judgment, their realizability is
determined to be more likely than not. The Firm has also
recognized deferred tax assets in connection with certain tax
attributes, including net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards
and foreign tax credit (“FTC”) carryforwards. The Firm
performs regular reviews to ascertain whether its deferred tax
assets are realizable. These reviews include management’s
estimates and assumptions regarding future taxable income,
which also incorporates various tax planning strategies,
including strategies that may be available to utilize NOLs
before they expire. In connection with these reviews, if it is
determined that a deferred tax asset is not realizable, a valuation allowance
is established. The valuation allowance may be reversed in a
subsequent reporting period if the Firm determines that, based
on revised estimates of future taxable income or changes in tax
planning strategies, it is more likely than not that all or part of
the deferred tax asset will become realizable. As of
December 31, 2019, management has determined it is more
likely than not that the Firm will realize its deferred tax assets,
net of the existing valuation allowance.
The Firm adjusts its unrecognized tax benefits as necessary
when additional information becomes available. Uncertain tax
positions that meet the more-likely-than-not recognition
threshold are measured to determine the amount of benefit to
recognize. An uncertain tax position is measured at the largest
amount of benefit that management believes is more likely
than not to be realized upon settlement. It is possible that the
reassessment of JPMorgan Chase’s unrecognized tax benefits
may have a material impact on its effective income tax rate in
the period in which the reassessment occurs.
Refer to Note 25 for additional information on income taxes.
Litigation reserves
Refer to Note 30 for a description of the significant estimates
and judgments associated with establishing litigation reserves.
138 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
•
•
•ACCOUNTING AND REPOR TING DEVELOPMENTS
Financial Accounting Standards Board (“F ASB”) Standards Adopted during 2019
Standard  Summary of guidance  Effects on financial statements
Leases
Issued February
2016
  • Requires lessees to recognize all leases longer than
twelve months on the Consolidated balance sheets
as a lease liability with a corresponding right-of-use
asset.
 • Requires lessees and lessors to classify most leases
using principles similar to existing lease
accounting, but eliminates the “bright line”
classification tests.
 • Expands qualitative and quantitative leasing
disclosures.
 Adopted January 1, 2019.
The Firm elected the available practical expedient to not reassess
whether existing contracts contain a lease or whether classification
or unamortized initial lease costs would be dif ferent under the new
lease guidance. The Firm elected the modified retrospective
transition method, through a cumulative-ef fect adjustment to
retained earnings without revising prior periods.
Refer to Note 18 for further information.
 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 139
•
•
•
•
•
•
•Management’ s discussion and analysis
FASB Standards Issued but not adopted as of December  31, 2019
Standard Summary of guidance Effects on financial statements
Financial
Instruments –
Credit Losses
(“CECL”)
Issued June 2016
  • Establishes a single allowance framework for all
financial assets carried at amortized cost and certain
off-balance sheet credit exposures. This framework
requires that management’ s estimate reflects credit
losses over the full remaining expected life and
considers expected future changes in
macroeconomic conditions.
 • Eliminates existing guidance for PCI loans, and
requires recognition of the nonaccretable dif ference
as an increase to the allowance for expected credit
losses on financial assets purchased with more than
insignificant credit deterioration since origination,
with a corresponding increase in the recorded
investment of the related loans.
 • Requires inclusion of expected recoveries, limited to
the cumulative amount of prior write-of fs, when
estimating the allowance for credit losses for in
scope financial assets (including collateral
dependent assets).
 • Amends existing impairment guidance for AFS
securities to incorporate an allowance, which will
allow for reversals of credit impairments in the
event that the credit of an issuer improves.
 • Requires a cumulative-ef fect adjustment to retained
earnings as of the beginning of the reporting period
of adoption. Adopted January 1, 2020.
The adoption of this guidance resulted in a net increase to the
allowance for credit losses of $4.3 billion and a decrease to retained
earnings of $2.7 billion, primarily driven by Card. Under the CECL
framework, the Firm estimates losses over a two-year forecast
period using the weighted-average of a range of macroeconomic
scenarios (established on a Firmwide basis), and then reverts to
longer term historical loss experience to estimate losses over more
extended periods.
The Firm elected to phase-in the impact to retained earnings of
$2.7 billion to regulatory capital, at 25 percent per year in each of
2020 to 2023 (“CECL  transitional period”). Based on the Firm’ s
capital as of December 31, 2019, the estimated impact to the
Standardized CET1 capital ratio will be a reduction of
approximately 4 bps for each transitional year .
As permitted by the guidance, the Firm elected the fair value
option for certain securities financing agreements. The dif ference
between their carrying amount and fair value was immaterial and
was recorded as part of the Firm’ s cumulative-ef fect adjustment.
Refer to Note 1 for further information.
Goodwill
Issued January
2017
  • Requires recognition of an impairment loss when
the estimated fair value of a reporting unit falls
below its carrying value.
 • Eliminates the requirement that an impairment loss
be recognized only if the estimated implied fair
value of the goodwill is below its carrying value. Adopted January 1, 2020.
No impact upon adoption as the guidance is to be applied
prospectively .
140 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
FOR WARD-LOOKING ST ATEMENTS
From time to time, the Firm has made and will make forward-
looking statements. These statements can be identified by the
fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
Forward-looking statements often use words such as
“anticipate,” “target,” “expect,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,”
“goal,” “believe,” or other words of similar meaning. Forward-
looking statements provide JPMorgan Chase’s current
expectations or forecasts of future events, circumstances, results
or aspirations. JPMorgan Chase’s disclosures in this 2019 Form
10-K contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Firm
also may make forward-looking statements in its other
documents filed or furnished with the SEC. In addition, the
Firm’s senior management may make forward-looking
statements orally to investors, analysts, representatives of the
media and others.
All forward-looking statements are, by their nature, subject to
risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Firm’s
control. JPMorgan Chase’s actual future results may differ
materially from those set forth in its forward-looking
statements. While there is no assurance that any list of risks and
uncertainties or risk factors is complete, below are certain
factors which could cause actual results to differ from those in
the forward-looking statements:
•Local, regional and global business, economic and political
conditions and geopolitical events;
•Changes in laws and regulatory requirements, including
capital and liquidity requirements affecting the Firm’s
businesses, and the ability of the Firm to address those
requirements;
•Heightened regulatory and governmental oversight and
scrutiny of JPMorgan Chase’s business practices, including
dealings with retail customers;
•Changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws;
•Changes in income tax laws and regulations;
•Securities and capital markets behavior, including changes in
market liquidity and volatility;
•Changes in investor sentiment or consumer spending or
savings behavior;
•Ability of the Firm to manage effectively its capital and
liquidity, including approval of its capital plans by banking
regulators;
•Changes in credit ratings assigned to the Firm or its
subsidiaries;
•Damage to the Firm’s reputation;
•Ability of the Firm to appropriately address social,
environmental and sustainability concerns that may arise
from its business activities;
•Ability of the Firm to deal effectively with an economic
slowdown or other economic or market disruption,
including, but not limited to, in the interest rate environment; •Technology changes instituted by the Firm, its counterparties
or competitors;
•The effectiveness of the Firm’s control agenda;
•Ability of the Firm to develop or discontinue products and
services, and the extent to which products or services
previously sold by the Firm (including but not limited to
mortgages and asset-backed securities) require the Firm to
incur liabilities or absorb losses not contemplated at their
initiation or origination;
•Acceptance of the Firm’s new and existing products and
services by the marketplace and the ability of the Firm to
innovate and to increase market share;
•Ability of the Firm to attract and retain qualified employees;
•Ability of the Firm to control expenses;
•Competitive pressures;
•Changes in the credit quality of the Firm’s clients, customers
and counterparties;
•Adequacy of the Firm’s risk management framework,
disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over
financial reporting;
•Adverse judicial or regulatory proceedings;
•Changes in applicable accounting policies, including the
introduction of new accounting standards;
•Ability of the Firm to determine accurate values of certain
assets and liabilities;
•Occurrence of natural or man-made disasters or calamities,
including health emergencies, the spread of infectious
diseases, pandemics or outbreaks of hostilities, or the effects
of climate change, and the Firm’s ability to deal effectively
with disruptions caused by the foregoing;
•Ability of the Firm to maintain the security of its financial,
accounting, technology, data processing and other
operational systems and facilities;
•Ability of the Firm to withstand disruptions that may be
caused by any failure of its operational systems or those of
third parties;
•Ability of the Firm to effectively defend itself against
cyberattacks and other attempts by unauthorized parties to
access information of the Firm or its customers or to disrupt
the Firm’s systems; and
•The other risks and uncertainties detailed in Part I, Item 1A:
Risk Factors in the JPMorgan Chase’s 2019 Form 10-K.
Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the
Firm speak only as of the date they are made, and JPMorgan
Chase does not undertake to update any forward-looking
statements. The reader should, however, consult any further
disclosures of a forward-looking nature the Firm may make in
any subsequent Form 10-Ks, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Qs,
or Current Reports on Form 8-K.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 141
Management’ s report on internal contr ol over  financial r eporting
Management of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“JPMorgan Chase”
or the “Firm”) is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal
control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or
under the supervision of, the Firm’s principal executive and
principal financial officers, or persons performing similar
functions, and effected by JPMorgan Chase’s Board of
Directors, management and other personnel, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”).
JPMorgan Chase’s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records, that, in reasonable detail, accurately
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the Firm’s
assets; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and that receipts
and expenditures of the Firm are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of JPMorgan Chase’s
management and directors; and (3) provide reasonable
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Firm’s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Management has completed an assessment of the effectiveness
of the Firm’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2019. In making the assessment, management
used the “Internal Control — Integrated Framework” (“COSO
2013”) promulgated by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”). Based upon the assessment performed, management concluded
that as of December 31, 2019, JPMorgan Chase’s internal
control over financial reporting was effective based upon the
COSO 2013 framework. Additionally, based upon
management’s assessment, the Firm determined that there were
no material weaknesses in its internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2019.
The effectiveness of the Firm’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2019, has been audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears
herein.
James Dimon
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Jennifer Piepszak
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
February 25, 2020
142 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Report of Independent Register ed Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors and Shar eholders of JPMorgan
Chase & Co.:
Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control
over Financial Reporting
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets
of JPMor gan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries (the “Firm”) as of
December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the related consolidated
statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in
stockholders’  equity and cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2019, including the related notes
(collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial
statements”). We also have audited the Firm’ s internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on
criteria established in Internal Contr ol - Integrated Framework
(2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Or ganizations of
the Treadway Commission (COSO).
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to
above present fairly , in all material respects, the financial
position of the Firm as of  December 31, 2019  and 2018, and the
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2019  in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. Also in our opinion, the Firm maintained, in all
material respects, ef fective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2019 , based on criteria established
in Internal Contr ol – Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by
the COSO.
Basis for Opinions
The Firm’ s management is responsible for these consolidated
financial statements, for maintaining ef fective internal control
over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
included in the accompanying Management’ s report on internal
control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express
opinions on the Firm’ s consolidated financial statements and on
the Firm’ s internal control over financial reporting based on our
audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States)
(PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the
Firm in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the
applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
consolidated financial statements are free of material
misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included
performing procedures to assess the risks of material
misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether
due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to
those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis,
evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the
consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included
evaluating the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the
overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and
testing and evaluating the design and operating ef fectiveness of
internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
included performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial
Reporting
A company’ s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’ s internal control
over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance
with authorizations of management and directors of the
company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use,
or disposition of the company’ s assets that could have a material
effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of ef fectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Ÿ  300 Madison Avenue Ÿ  New York, NY 10017
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 143
Report of Independent Register ed Public Accounting Firm
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters
arising from the current period audit of the consolidated
financial statements that were communicated or required to be
communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relate to
accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated
financial statements and (ii) involved our especially challenging,
subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of
critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on
the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we
are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below ,
providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on
the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.
Fair V alue of Certain Level 3 Financial Instruments
As described in Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial
statements, the Firm carries $802.8 billion of its assets and
$233.8 billion of its liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis.
Included in these balances are $8.1 billion of trading assets and
$37.7 billion of liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring
basis, collectively financial instruments, which are classified as
level 3 as they contain one or more inputs to valuation which are
unobservable and significant to their fair value measurement.
The Firm utilized internally developed valuation models and
unobservable inputs to estimate fair value of the level 3 financial
instruments. The unobservable inputs used by management to
estimate the fair value of certain of these financial instruments
include volatility relating to interest rates and correlation
relating to interest rates, equity prices and foreign exchange
rates.
The principal considerations for our determination that
performing procedures relating to the fair value of certain level 3
financial instruments is a critical audit matter are (i) there was
significant judgment and estimation by management in
determining the inputs to estimate fair value, which in turn led to
a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity , and ef fort in
performing procedures related to the fair value of these financial
instruments, and (ii) the audit ef fort involved professionals with
specialized skill and knowledge to assist in evaluating the audit
evidence obtained from these procedures.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and
evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall
opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These
procedures included testing the ef fectiveness of controls relating
to the Firm’ s processes for determining fair value which include
controls over models, inputs, and data. These procedures also
included, among others, the involvement of professionals with
specialized skill and knowledge to assist in developing an
independent estimate of fair value for a sample of these financial
instruments. Developing the independent estimate involved
testing the completeness and accuracy of data provided by
management, developing independent inputs and, as appropriate,
evaluating and utilizing management’ s aforementioned
unobservable inputs; and comparing management’ s estimate to
the independently developed estimate of fair value. Fair V alue of Mortgage Servicing Rights Assets
As described in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements,
the Firm has elected to account for the Firm’ s mortgage
servicing rights assets at fair value, with balances of $4.7 billion
as of December 31, 2019. Management estimates the fair value
of mortgage servicing rights using an option-adjusted spread
model, which projects cash flows over multiple interest rate
scenarios in conjunction with the Firm’ s prepayment model, and
then discounts these cash flows at risk-adjusted rates. The key
economic assumptions used to determine the fair value of
mortgage servicing rights are prepayment speeds and option
adjusted spread.
The principal considerations for our determination that
performing procedures relating to the fair value of mortgage
servicing rights assets is a critical audit matter are (i) there was
significant judgment and estimation by management in
determining the fair value of mortgage servicing rights, which in
turn led to a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity and
effort in performing procedures and in evaluating the audit
evidence obtained related to the prepayment speed and option
adjusted spread assumptions, and (ii) the audit ef fort involved
professionals with specialized skill and knowledge to assist in
evaluating the audit evidence obtained from these procedures.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and
evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall
opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These
procedures included testing the ef fectiveness of controls relating
to the valuation of mortgage servicing rights, including controls
over the Firm’ s models, assumptions, and data. These
procedures also included, among others, the involvement of
professionals with specialized skill and knowledge to assist in
testing management’ s process including testing and evaluating
the reasonableness of prepayment speed and option adjusted
spread assumptions used in the model.
Allowance for Loan Losses - Wholesale Loan, Cr edit Car d Loan
and Consumer Loan Portfolios
As described in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements,
the Firm’ s allowance for loan losses represents management’ s
estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the Firm’ s retained
loan portfolios, which primarily consists of wholesale loans,
credit card loans and consumer loans. As of December 31, 2019,
the allowance for loan losses was $13.1 billion on total retained
loans of $945.6 billion. The Firm’ s allowance for loan losses is
determined for each of the retained loan portfolios utilizing a
statistical credit loss estimate. These statistical credit loss
estimates are calculated using statistical credit loss factors,
specifically the probability of default and loss severity for the
credit card and consumer loans and the probability of default
and loss given default for the wholesale loans. Management then
applies judgment to adjust these statistical loss estimates to take
into consideration model imprecision, external factors and
economic events that have occurred but are not yet reflected in
the loss factors.
The principal considerations for our determination that
performing procedures relating to the allowance for loan losses
for the wholesale loan, credit card loan, and consumer loan
portfolios is a critical audit matter are (i) there was
144 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Report of Independent Register ed Public Accounting Firm
significant judgment and estimation by management in
determining the modeling techniques utilized in their statistical
credit loss estimates, which in turn led to a high degree of
auditor judgment, subjectivity and ef fort in performing
procedures and in evaluating audit evidence obtained relating to
the statistical credit loss estimates and the appropriateness of the
adjustments to the statistical loss estimates, and (ii) the audit
effort involved professionals with specialized skill and
knowledge to assist in evaluating the audit evidence.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and
evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall
opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These
procedures included testing the ef fectiveness of controls relating
to the Firm’ s allowance for loan losses estimation processes.
These procedures also included, among others, testing
management’ s process for estimating the allowance for loan
losses, which included evaluating the appropriateness of the
models and methodologies used in the statistical credit loss
estimates for the wholesale, credit card and consumer loan
portfolios; testing the completeness and accuracy of data; and
evaluating the reasonableness of assumptions and judgments
used in the statistical credit loss estimate and the adjustments to
the statistical credit loss estimates. This included, as relevant, evaluating the
reasonableness of probabilities of default, loss severities and
loss given default. Evaluating management’ s adjustment to the
statistical credit loss estimate included evaluating the
reasonableness of the impacts of model imprecision and external
factors and economic events which have occurred but are not yet
otherwise reflected in the statistical credit loss estimate. The
procedures included the use of professionals with specialized
skill and knowledge to assist in evaluating the appropriateness
of certain models, methodologies and inputs into the statistical
credit loss estimates.
February 25, 2020
We have served as the Firm’ s auditor since 1965.   
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 145
Consolidated statements of income
Year ended December 31, (in millions, except per share data) 2019 2018 2017
Revenue     
Investment banking fees $ 7,501 $ 7,550 $ 7,412
Principal transactions 14,018 12,059 11,347
Lending- and deposit-related fees 6,369 6,052 5,933
Asset management, administration and commissions 17,165 17,118 16,287
Investment securities gains/(losses) 258 (395) (66)
Mortgage fees and related income 2,036 1,254 1,616
Card income 5,304 4,989 4,433
Other income 5,731 5,343 3,646
Noninterest revenue 58,382 53,970 50,608
Interest income(a) 84,040 76,100 63,971
Interest expense(a) 26,795 21,041 13,874
Net interest income 57,245 55,059 50,097
Total net revenue 115,627 109,029 100,705
Provision for credit losses 5,585 4,871 5,290
Noninterest expense     
Compensation expense 34,155 33,117 31,208
Occupancy expense 4,322 3,952 3,723
Technology, communications and equipment expense 9,821 8,802 7,715
Professional and outside services 8,533 8,502 7,890
Marketing 3,579 3,290 2,900
Other expense 5,087 5,731 6,079
Total noninterest expense 65,497 63,394 59,515
Income before income tax expense 44,545 40,764 35,900
Income tax expense 8,114 8,290 11,459
Net income $ 36,431 $ 32,474 $ 24,441
Net income applicable to common stockholders $ 34,642 $ 30,709 $ 22,567
Net income per common share data     
Basic earnings per share $ 10.75 $ 9.04 $ 6.35
Diluted earnings per share 10.72 9.00 6.31
Weighted-average basic shares 3,221.5 3,396.4 3,551.6
Weighted-average diluted shares 3,230.4 3,414.0 3,576.8
(a)In the second quarter of 2019, the Firm implemented certain presentation changes that impacted interest income and interest expense, but had no effect on net
interest income. These changes were applied retrospectively and, accordingly, prior period amounts were revised to conform with the current presentation. Refer
to Note 7 for additional information.
The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
146 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Consolidated statements of compr ehensive income
Year ended December 31, (in millions)  2019 2018 2017
Net income  $ 36,431 $ 32,474 $ 24,441
Other comprehensive income/(loss), after–tax      
Unrealized gains/(losses) on investment securities  2,855 (1,858) 640
Translation adjustments, net of hedges  20 20 (306)
Fair value hedges  30 (107) NA
Cash flow hedges  172 (201) 176
Defined benefit pension and OPEB plans  964 (373) 738
DVA on fair value option elected liabilities  (965) 1,043 (192)
Total other comprehensive income/(loss), after–tax  3,076 (1,476) 1,056
Comprehensive income  $ 39,507 $ 30,998 $ 25,497
The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 147
Consolidated balance sheets
December 31, (in millions, except share data) 2019 2018
Assets   
Cash and due from banks $ 21,704 $ 22,324
Deposits with banks 241,927 256,469
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements (included $14,561 and $13,235 at fair value) 249,157 321,588
Securities borrowed (included $6,237 and $5,105 at fair value) 139,758 111,995
Trading assets (included assets pledged of $111,522 and $89,073) 411,103 413,714
Investment securities (included $350,699 and $230,394 at fair value and assets pledged of $10,325 and $11,432) 398,239 261,828
Loans (included $7,104 and $3,151 at fair value) 959,769 984,554
Allowance for loan losses (13,123) (13,445)
Loans, net of allowance for loan losses 946,646 971,109
Accrued interest and accounts receivable 72,861 73,200
Premises and equipment 25,813 14,934
Goodwill, MSRs and other intangible assets 53,341 54,349
Other assets (included $9,111 and $9,630 at fair value and assets pledged of $3,349 and $3,457) 126,830 121,022
Total assets(a) $ 2,687,379 $ 2,622,532
Liabilities   
Deposits (included $28,589 and $23,217 at fair value) $ 1,562,431 $ 1,470,666
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements (included $549 and $935 at fair value) 183,675 182,320
Short-term borrowings (included $5,920 and $7,130 at fair value) 40,920 69,276
Trading liabilities 119,277 144,773
Accounts payable and other liabilities (included $3,728 and $3,269 at fair value) 210,407 196,710
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs (included $36 and $28 at fair value) 17,841 20,241
Long-term debt (included $75,745 and $54,886 at fair value) 291,498 282,031
Total liabilities(a) 2,426,049 2,366,017
Commitments and contingencies (refer to Notes 28, 29 and 30)
Stockholders’ equity   
Preferred stock ($1 par value; authorized 200,000,000 shares: issued 2,699,250 and 2,606,750 shares) 26,993 26,068
Common stock ($1 par value; authorized 9,000,000,000 shares; issued 4,104,933,895 shares) 4,105 4,105
Additional paid-in capital 88,522 89,162
Retained earnings 223,211 199,202
Accumulated other comprehensive income/loss 1,569 (1,507)
Shares held in restricted stock units (“RSU”) trust, at cost (472,953 shares) (21) (21)
Treasury stock, at cost (1,020,912,567 and 829,167,674 shares) (83,049) (60,494)
Total stockholders’ equity 261,330 256,515
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 2,687,379 $ 2,622,532
(a)The following table presents information on assets and liabilities related to VIEs that are consolidated by the Firm at December 31, 2019 and 2018. The assets of
the consolidated VIEs are used to settle the liabilities of those entities. The holders of the beneficial interests do not have recourse to the general credit of
JPMorgan Chase. The assets and liabilities in the table below include third-party assets and liabilities of consolidated VIEs and exclude intercompany balances
that eliminate in consolidation. Refer to Note 14 for a further discussion.
December 31, (in millions) 2019  2018
Assets   
Trading assets $ 2,633 $ 1,966
Loans 42,931 59,456
All other assets 881 1,013
Total assets $ 46,445 $ 62,435
Liabilities   
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs $ 17,841 $ 20,241
All other liabilities 447 312
Total liabilities $ 18,288 $ 20,553
The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
148 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Consolidated statements of changes in stockholders’  equity
Year ended December 31, (in millions, except per share data)  2019 2018  2017
Preferred stock     
Balance at January 1  $ 26,068 $ 26,068 $ 26,068
Issuance  5,000 1,696 1,258
Redemption  (4,075) (1,696) (1,258)
Balance at December 31  26,993 26,068 26,068
Common stock     
Balance at January 1 and December 31  4,105 4,105 4,105
Additional paid-in capital     
Balance at January 1  89,162 90,579 91,627
Shares issued and commitments to issue common stock for employee share-based compensation awards, and
related tax effects  (591) (738) (734)
Other  (49) (679) (314)
Balance at December 31  88,522 89,162 90,579
Retained earnings     
Balance at January 1  199,202 177,676 162,440
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles  62 (183) —
Net income  36,431 32,474 24,441
Dividends declared:     
Preferred stock  (1,587) (1,551) (1,663)
Common stock ($3.40, $2.72 and $2.12 per share for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively)  (10,897) (9,214) (7,542)
Balance at December 31  223,211 199,202 177,676
Accumulated other comprehensive income     
Balance at January 1  (1,507) (119) (1,175)
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles  — 88 —
Other comprehensive income/(loss), after-tax  3,076 (1,476) 1,056
Balance at December 31  1,569 (1,507) (119)
Shares held in RSU Trust, at cost     
Balance at January 1 and December 31  (21) (21) (21)
Treasury stock, at cost     
Balance at January 1  (60,494) (42,595) (28,854)
Repurchase  (24,121) (19,983) (15,410)
Reissuance  1,566 2,084 1,669
Balance at December 31  (83,049) (60,494) (42,595)
Total stockholders’ equity  $261,330 $256,515 $255,693
The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 149
Consolidated statements of cash flows
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018  2017
Operating activities    
Net income $ 36,431 $ 32,474 $ 24,441
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities:    
Provision for credit losses 5,585 4,871 5,290
Depreciation and amortization 8,368 7,791 6,179
Deferred tax expense 949 1,721 2,312
Other 1,996 2,717 2,136
Originations and purchases of loans held-for-sale (70,980) (102,141) (94,628)
Proceeds from sales, securitizations and paydowns of loans held-for-sale 79,182 93,453 93,270
Net change in:    
Trading assets (652) (38,371) 5,673
Securities borrowed (27,631) (6,861) (8,653)
Accrued interest and accounts receivable (78) (5,849) (15,868)
Other assets (17,949) (8,833) 3,982
Trading liabilities (14,516) 18,290 (26,256)
Accounts payable and other liabilities (352) 14,630 (16,508)
Other operating adjustments 5,693 295 7,803
Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities 6,046 14,187 (10,827)
Investing activities    
Net change in:    
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements 72,396 (123,201) 31,448
Held-to-maturity securities:    
Proceeds from paydowns and maturities 3,423 2,945 4,563
Purchases (13,427) (9,368) (2,349)
Available-for-sale securities:    
Proceeds from paydowns and maturities 52,200 37,401 56,117
Proceeds from sales 70,181 46,067 90,201
Purchases (242,149) (95,091) (105,309)
Proceeds from sales and securitizations of loans held-for-investment 62,095 29,826 15,791
Other changes in loans, net (53,697) (81,586) (61,650)
All other investing activities, net (5,035) (4,986) (563)
Net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities (54,013) (197,993) 28,249
Financing activities    
Net change in:    
Deposits 101,002 26,728 57,022
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements 1,347 23,415 (6,739)
Short-term borrowings (28,561) 18,476 16,540
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs 4,289 1,712 (1,377)
Proceeds from long-term borrowings 61,085 71,662 56,271
Payments of long-term borrowings (69,610) (76,313) (83,079)
Proceeds from issuance of preferred stock 5,000 1,696 1,258
Redemption of preferred stock (4,075) (1,696) (1,258)
Treasury stock repurchased (24,001) (19,983) (15,410)
Dividends paid (12,343) (10,109) (8,993)
All other financing activities, net (1,146) (1,430) 407
Net cash provided by financing activities 32,987 34,158 14,642
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and due from banks and deposits with banks (182) (2,863) 8,086
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and due from banks and deposits with banks (15,162) (152,511) 40,150
Cash and due from banks and deposits with banks at the beginning of the period 278,793 431,304 391,154
Cash and due from banks and deposits with banks at the end of the period $263,631 $278,793 $431,304
Cash interest paid $ 29,918 $ 21,152 $ 14,153
Cash income taxes paid, net 5,624 3,542 4,325
The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
150 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 1 – Basis of pr esentation
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“JPMorgan Chase” or the “Firm”), a
financial holding company incorporated under Delaware law in
1968, is a leading global financial services firm and one of the
largest banking institutions in the U.S. with operations
worldwide. The Firm is a leader in investment banking,
financial services for consumers and small business,
commercial banking, financial transaction processing and asset
management. Refer to Note 32 for a discussion of the Firm’s
business segments.
The accounting and financial reporting policies of JPMorgan
Chase and its subsidiaries conform to U.S. GAAP.
Additionally, where applicable, the policies conform to the
accounting and reporting guidelines prescribed by regulatory
authorities.
Certain amounts reported in prior periods have been
reclassified to conform with the current presentation.
Consolidation
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of
JPMorgan Chase and other entities in which the Firm has a
controlling financial interest. All material intercompany
balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Assets held for clients in an agency or fiduciary capacity by
the Firm are not assets of JPMorgan Chase and are not
included on the Consolidated balance sheets.
The Firm determines whether it has a controlling financial
interest in an entity by first evaluating whether the entity is a
voting interest entity or a variable interest entity.
Voting interest entities
Voting interest entities are entities that have sufficient equity
and provide the equity investors voting rights that enable them
to make significant decisions relating to the entity’s operations.
For these types of entities, the Firm’s determination of whether
it has a controlling interest is primarily based on the amount of
voting equity interests held. Entities in which the Firm has a
controlling financial interest, through ownership of the
majority of the entities’ voting equity interests, or through
other contractual rights that give the Firm control, are
consolidated by the Firm.
Investments in companies in which the Firm has significant
influence over operating and financing decisions (but does not
own a majority of the voting equity interests) are accounted for
(i) in accordance with the equity method of accounting (which
requires the Firm to recognize its proportionate share of the
entity’s net earnings), or (ii) at fair value if the fair value
option was elected. These investments are generally included
in other assets, with income or loss included in noninterest
revenue.
Certain Firm-sponsored asset management funds are structured
as limited partnerships or limited liability companies. For
many of these entities, the Firm is the general partner or
managing member, but the non-affiliated partners or members
have the ability to remove the Firm as the general partner or managing member without cause (i.e.,
kick-out rights), based on a simple majority vote, or the non-
affiliated partners or members have rights to participate in
important decisions. Accordingly, the Firm does not
consolidate these voting interest entities. However, in the
limited cases where the non-managing partners or members do
not have substantive kick-out or participating rights, the Firm
evaluates the funds as VIEs and consolidates the funds if the
Firm is the general partner or managing member and has a
potentially significant interest.
The Firm’s investment companies and asset management funds
have investments in both publicly-held and privately-held
entities, including investments in buyouts, growth equity and
venture opportunities. These investments are accounted for
under investment company guidelines and, accordingly,
irrespective of the percentage of equity ownership interests
held, are carried on the Consolidated balance sheets at fair
value, and are recorded in other assets, with income or loss
included in noninterest revenue. If consolidated, the Firm
retains such specialized investment company guidelines.
Variable interest entities
VIEs are entities that, by design, either (1) lack sufficient
equity to permit the entity to finance its activities without
additional subordinated financial support from other parties, or
(2) have equity investors that do not have the ability to make
significant decisions relating to the entity’s operations through
voting rights, or do not have the obligation to absorb the
expected losses, or do not have the right to receive the residual
returns of the entity.
The most common type of VIE is an SPE. SPEs are commonly
used in securitization transactions in order to isolate certain
assets and distribute the cash flows from those assets to
investors. The basic SPE structure involves a company selling
assets to the SPE; the SPE funds the purchase of those assets
by issuing securities to investors. The legal documents that
govern the transaction specify how the cash earned on the
assets must be allocated to the SPE’s investors and other
parties that have rights to those cash flows. SPEs are generally
structured to insulate investors from claims on the SPE’s assets
by creditors of other entities, including the creditors of the
seller of the assets.
The primary beneficiary of a VIE (i.e., the party that has a
controlling financial interest) is required to consolidate the
assets and liabilities of the VIE. The primary beneficiary is the
party that has both (1) the power to direct the activities of the
VIE that most significantly impact the VIE’s economic
performance; and (2) through its interests in the VIE, the
obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from
the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE.
To assess whether the Firm has the power to direct the
activities of a VIE that most significantly impact the VIE’s
economic performance, the Firm considers all the facts and
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 151
Notes to consolidated financial statements
circumstances, including its role in establishing the VIE and its
ongoing rights and responsibilities. This assessment includes,
first, identifying the activities that most significantly impact
the VIE’s economic performance; and second, identifying
which party, if any, has power over those activities. In general,
the parties that make the most significant decisions affecting
the VIE (such as asset managers, collateral managers,
servicers, or owners of call options or liquidation rights over
the VIE’s assets) or have the right to unilaterally remove those
decision-makers are deemed to have the power to direct the
activities of a VIE.
To assess whether the Firm has the obligation to absorb losses
of the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that
could potentially be significant to the VIE, the Firm considers
all of its economic interests, including debt and equity
investments, servicing fees, and derivatives or other
arrangements deemed to be variable interests in the VIE. This
assessment requires that the Firm apply judgment in
determining whether these interests, in the aggregate, are
considered potentially significant to the VIE. Factors
considered in assessing significance include: the design of the
VIE, including its capitalization structure; subordination of
interests; payment priority; relative share of interests held
across various classes within the VIE’s capital structure; and
the reasons why the interests are held by the Firm.
The Firm performs on-going reassessments of: (1) whether
entities previously evaluated under the majority voting-interest
framework have become VIEs, based on certain events, and
are therefore subject to the VIE consolidation framework; and
(2) whether changes in the facts and circumstances regarding
the Firm’s involvement with a VIE cause the Firm’s
consolidation conclusion to change.
Refer to Note 14 for further discussion of the Firm’s VIEs.
Revenue recognition
Interest income
The Firm recognizes interest income on loans, debt securities,
and other debt instruments, generally on a level-yield basis,
based on the underlying contractual rate. Refer to Note 7 for
further discussion of interest income.
Revenue from contracts with customers
JPMorgan Chase recognizes noninterest revenue from certain
contracts with customers, in investment banking fees, deposit-
related fees, asset management administration and
commissions, and components of card income, when the
Firm’s related performance obligations are satisfied. Refer to
Note 6 for further discussion of the Firm’s revenue from
contracts with customers.
Principal transactions revenue
JPMorgan Chase carries a portion of its assets and liabilities at
fair value. Changes in fair value are reported primarily in
principal transactions revenue. Refer to Notes 2 and 3 for
further discussion of fair value measurement. Refer to Note 6
for further discussion of principal transactions revenue. Use of estimates in the preparation of consolidated
financial statements
The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenue
and expense, and disclosures of contingent assets and
liabilities. Actual results could be different from these
estimates.
Foreign currency translation
JPMorgan Chase revalues assets, liabilities, revenue and
expense denominated in non-U.S. currencies into U.S. dollars
using applicable exchange rates.
Gains and losses relating to translating functional currency
financial statements for U.S. reporting are included in the
Consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Gains and
losses relating to nonfunctional currency transactions,
including non-U.S. operations where the functional currency is
the U.S. dollar, are reported in the Consolidated statements of
income.
Offsetting assets and liabilities
U.S. GAAP permits entities to present derivative receivables
and derivative payables with the same counterparty and the
related cash collateral receivables and payables on a net basis
on the Consolidated balance sheets when a legally enforceable
master netting agreement exists. U.S. GAAP also permits
securities sold and purchased under repurchase agreements and
securities borrowed or loaned under securities loan agreements
to be presented net when specified conditions are met,
including the existence of a legally enforceable master netting
agreement. The Firm has elected to net such balances when the
specified conditions are met.
The Firm uses master netting agreements to mitigate
counterparty credit risk in certain transactions, including
derivative contracts, resale, repurchase, securities borrowed
and securities loaned agreements. A master netting agreement
is a single agreement with a counterparty that permits multiple
transactions governed by that agreement to be terminated or
accelerated and settled through a single payment in a single
currency in the event of a default (e.g., bankruptcy, failure to
make a required payment or securities transfer or deliver
collateral or margin when due). Upon the exercise of
derivatives termination rights by the non-defaulting party (i)
all transactions are terminated, (ii) all transactions are valued
and the positive values of “in the money” transactions are
netted against the negative values of “out of the money”
transactions and (iii) the only remaining payment obligation is
of one of the parties to pay the netted termination amount.
Upon exercise of default rights under repurchase agreements
and securities loan agreements in general (i) all transactions
are terminated and accelerated, (ii) all values of securities or
cash held or to be delivered are calculated, and all such sums
are netted against each other and (iii) the only remaining
payment obligation is of one of the parties to pay the netted
termination amount.
152 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Typical master netting agreements for these types of
transactions also often contain a collateral/margin agreement
that provides for a security interest in, or title transfer of,
securities or cash collateral/margin to the party that has the
right to demand margin (the “demanding party”). The
collateral/margin agreement typically requires a party to
transfer collateral/margin to the demanding party with a value
equal to the amount of the margin deficit on a net basis across
all transactions governed by the master netting agreement, less
any threshold. The collateral/margin agreement grants to the
demanding party, upon default by the counterparty, the right to
set-off any amounts payable by the counterparty against any
posted collateral or the cash equivalent of any posted
collateral/margin. It also grants to the demanding party the
right to liquidate collateral/margin and to apply the proceeds to
an amount payable by the counterparty.
Refer to Note 5 for further discussion of the Firm’s derivative
instruments. Refer to Note 11 for further discussion of the
Firm’s securities financing agreements.
Statements of cash flows
For JPMorgan Chase’s Consolidated statements of cash flows,
cash is defined as those amounts included in cash and due
from banks and deposits with banks.
Accounting standard adopted January 1, 2020
Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (“CECL”)
The adoption of this guidance established a single allowance
framework for all financial assets carried at amortized cost and
certain off-balance sheet credit exposures. This framework
requires that management’s estimate reflects credit losses over
the full remaining expected life and considers expected future
changes in macroeconomic conditions.
The following table presents the impacts to the allowance for
credit losses and retained earnings upon adoption of this
guidance on January 1, 2020:
(in billions)December
31, 2019CECL
adoption
impactJanuary 1,
2020
Allowance for credit losses   
Consumer, excluding credit card$ 3.2$ 0.2$ 3.4
Credit card 5.7 5.5 11.2
Wholesale 5.4 (1.4) 4.0
Firmwide $ 14.3$ 4.3$ 18.6
Retained earnings   
Firmwide allowance increase $ 4.3 
Balance sheet reclassification(a) (0.8) 
Total pre-tax impact 3.5 
Tax effect (0.8) 
Decrease to retained earnings $ 2.7 
(a)Represents the recognition of the nonaccretable difference on purchased
credit deteriorated assets and the Firm's election to recognize the reserve
for uncollectible accrued interest on credit card loans in the allowance,
both of which resulted in a corresponding increase to loans. Accounting standards adopted January 1, 2018
Effective January 1, 2018, the Firm adopted several accounting
standards resulting in a net decrease of $183 million to
retained earnings and a net increase of $88 million to AOCI.
Certain of these standards were adopted retrospectively and,
accordingly, prior period amounts were revised. The adoption
of the recognition and measurement guidance resulted in $505
million of fair value gains in the first quarter of 2018, recorded
in total net revenue, on certain equity investments that were
previously held at cost.
Significant accounting policies
The following table identifies JPMorgan Chase’s other
significant accounting policies and the Note and page where a
detailed description of each policy can be found.
Fair value measurement Note 2  page 154
Fair value option Note 3  page 175
Derivative instruments Note 5  page 180
Noninterest revenue and noninterest expense Note 6  page 195
Interest income and Interest expense Note 7  page 198
Pension and other postretirement employee
benefit plans Note 8  page 199
Employee share-based incentives Note 9  page 206
Investment securities Note 10  page 208
Securities financing activities Note 1 1 page 214
Loans Note 12  page 217
Allowance for credit losses Note 13  page 237
Variable interest entities Note 14  page 242
Goodwill and Mortgage servicing rights Note 15  page 250
Premises and equipment Note 16  page 254
Leases Note 18  page 254
Long-term debt Note 20  page 257
Income taxes Note 25  page 265
Off–balance sheet lending-related financial
instruments, guarantees and other
commitments Note 28  page 272
Litigation Note 30  page 279
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 153
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 2 – Fair value measur ement
JPMorgan Chase carries a portion of its assets and liabilities at
fair value. These assets and liabilities are predominantly
carried at fair value on a recurring basis (i.e., assets and
liabilities that are measured and reported at fair value on the
Firm’s Consolidated balance sheets). Certain assets, liabilities
and unfunded lending-related commitments are measured at
fair value on a nonrecurring basis; that is, they are not
measured at fair value on an ongoing basis but are subject to
fair value adjustments only in certain circumstances (for
example, when there is evidence of impairment).
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. Fair
value is based on quoted market prices or inputs, where
available. If prices or quotes are not available, fair value is
based on valuation models and other valuation techniques that
consider relevant transaction characteristics (such as maturity)
and use, as inputs, observable or unobservable market
parameters, including yield curves, interest rates, volatilities,
prices (such as commodity, equity or debt prices), correlations,
foreign exchange rates and credit curves. Valuation
adjustments may be made to ensure that financial instruments
are recorded at fair value, as described below.
The level of precision in estimating unobservable market
inputs or other factors can affect the amount of gain or loss
recorded for a particular position. Furthermore, while the Firm
believes its valuation methods are appropriate and consistent
with those of other market participants, the methods and
assumptions used reflect management judgment and may vary
across the Firm’s businesses and portfolios.
The Firm uses various methodologies and assumptions in the
determination of fair value. The use of different methodologies
or assumptions by other market participants compared with
those used by the Firm could result in the Firm deriving a
different estimate of fair value at the reporting date.
Valuation process
Risk-taking functions are responsible for providing fair value
estimates for assets and liabilities carried on the Consolidated
balance sheets at fair value. The Firm’s VCG, which is part of
the Firm’s Finance function and independent of the risk-taking
functions, is responsible for verifying these estimates and
determining any fair value adjustments that may be required to
ensure that the Firm’s positions are recorded at fair value. The
VGF is composed of senior finance and risk executives and is
responsible for overseeing the management of risks arising
from valuation activities conducted across the Firm. The
Firmwide VGF is chaired by the Firmwide head of the VCG
(under the direction of the Firm’s Controller), and includes
sub-forums covering the CIB, CCB, CB, AWM and certain
corporate functions including Treasury and CIO. Price verification process
The VCG verifies fair value estimates provided by the risk-
taking functions by leveraging independently derived prices,
valuation inputs and other market data, where available. Where
independent prices or inputs are not available, the VCG
performs additional review to ensure the reasonableness of the
estimates. The additional review may include evaluating the
limited market activity including client unwinds,
benchmarking valuation inputs to those used for similar
instruments, decomposing the valuation of structured
instruments into individual components, comparing expected
to actual cash flows, reviewing profit and loss trends, and
reviewing trends in collateral valuation. There are also
additional levels of management review for more significant or
complex positions.
The VCG determines any valuation adjustments that may be
required to the estimates provided by the risk-taking functions.
No adjustments to quoted prices are applied for instruments
classified within level 1 of the fair value hierarchy (refer to the
discussion below for further information on the fair value
hierarchy). For other positions, judgment is required to assess
the need for valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect
liquidity considerations, unobservable parameters, and, for
certain portfolios that meet specified criteria, the size of the net
open risk position. The determination of such adjustments
follows a consistent framework across the Firm:
•Liquidity valuation adjustments are considered where an
observable external price or valuation parameter exists but
is of lower reliability, potentially due to lower market
activity. Liquidity valuation adjustments are made based on
current market conditions. Factors that may be considered
in determining the liquidity adjustment include analysis of:
(1) the estimated bid-offer spread for the instrument being
traded; (2) alternative pricing points for similar instruments
in active markets; and (3) the range of reasonable values
that the price or parameter could take.
•The Firm manages certain portfolios of financial
instruments on the basis of net open risk exposure and, as
permitted by U.S. GAAP, has elected to estimate the fair
value of such portfolios on the basis of a transfer of the
entire net open risk position in an orderly transaction.
Where this is the case, valuation adjustments may be
necessary to reflect the cost of exiting a larger-than-normal
market-size net open risk position. Where applied, such
adjustments are based on factors that a relevant market
participant would consider in the transfer of the net open
risk position, including the size of the adverse market move
that is likely to occur during the period required to reduce
the net open risk position to a normal market-size.
•Uncertainty adjustments related to unobservable parameters
may be made when positions are valued using prices or
input parameters to valuation models that are unobservable
due to a lack of market activity or because they cannot be
implied from observable market data. Such prices or
parameters must be estimated and are, therefore, subject to
management judgment.
154 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Adjustments are made to reflect the uncertainty inherent in
the resulting valuation estimate.
•Where appropriate, the Firm also applies adjustments to its
estimates of fair value in order to appropriately reflect
counterparty credit quality (CVA), the Firm’s own
creditworthiness (DVA) and the impact of funding (FVA),
using a consistent framework across the Firm. Refer to
Credit and funding adjustments on page 171 of this Note
for more information on such adjustments.
Valuation model review and approval
If prices or quotes are not available for an instrument or a
similar instrument, fair value is generally determined using
valuation models that consider relevant transaction terms such
as maturity and use as inputs market-based or independently
sourced parameters. Where this is the case the price
verification process described above is applied to the inputs in
those models.
Under the Firm’s Estimations and Model Risk Management
Policy, the Model Risk function reviews and approves new
models, as well as material changes to existing models, prior to
implementation in the operating environment. In certain
circumstances exceptions may be granted to the Firm’s policy
to allow a model to be used prior to review or approval. The
Model Risk function may also require the user to take
appropriate actions to mitigate the model risk if it is to be used
in the interim. These actions will depend on the model and
may include, for example, limitation of trading activity.
Valuation hierarchy
A three-level valuation hierarchy has been established under
U.S. GAAP for disclosure of fair value measurements. The
valuation hierarchy is based on the observability of inputs to
the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement
date. The three levels are defined as follows.
•Level 1 – inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted
prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in
active markets.
•Level 2 – inputs to the valuation methodology include
quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active
markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or
liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the
full term of the financial instrument.
•Level 3 – one or more inputs to the valuation methodology
are unobservable and significant to the fair value
measurement.
A financial instrument’s categorization within the valuation
hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is
significant to the fair value measurement.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 155
•
•
•
•
•
•
•Notes to consolidated financial statements
The following table describes the valuation methodologies generally used by the Firm to measure its significant
products/instruments at fair value, including the general classification of such instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.
 Product/instrument  Valuation methodologyClassifications in the valuation
hierar chy
 Securities financing agreements Valuations are based on discounted cash flows, which consider: Predominantly level 2
 • Derivative features: refer to the discussion of derivatives below for
further information.
 • Market rates for the respective maturity
 • Collateral characteristics
 Loans and lending-related commitments — wholesale
 Loans carried at fair value
(e.g., trading loans and non-
trading loans) and associated
lending-related commitmentsWhere observable market data is available, valuations are based on: Level 2 or 3
 • Observed market prices (circumstances are infrequent)
 • Relevant broker quotes
 • Observed market prices for similar instruments
  Where observable market data is unavailable or limited, valuations are
based on discounted cash flows, which consider the following:
  • Credit spreads derived from the cost of CDS; or benchmark credit
curves developed by the Firm, by industry and credit rating
  • Prepayment speed
  • Collateral characteristics
 Loans — consumer
 Trading loans — conforming
residential mortgage loans
expected to be soldFair value is based on observable prices for mortgage-backed securities
with similar collateral and incorporates adjustments to these prices to
account for dif ferences between the securities and the value of the
underlying loans, which include credit characteristics, portfolio
composition, and liquidity .Predominantly level 2
 
 
  
 Investment and trading securities Quoted market prices Level 1
  In the absence of quoted market prices, securities are valued based on: Level 2 or 3
  • Observable market prices for similar securities
    Relevant broker quotes
    Discounted cash flows
  In addition, the following inputs to discounted cash flows are used for
the following products:
  Mortgage- and asset-backed securities specific inputs:
    Collateral characteristics
  • Deal-specific payment and loss allocations
  • Current market assumptions related to yield, prepayment speed,
conditional default rates and loss severity
  Collateralized loan obligations (“CLOs”) specific inputs:
    Collateral characteristics
    Deal-specific payment and loss allocations
    Expected prepayment speed, conditional default rates, loss severity
    Credit spreads
  • Credit rating data
 Physical commodities Valued using observable market prices or data. Level 1 or 2
156 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•Product/instrument Valuation methodologyClassifications in the valuation
hierar chy
Derivatives Exchange-traded derivatives that are actively traded and valued using the
exchange price.Level 1
 Derivatives that are valued using models such as the Black-Scholes option
pricing model, simulation models, or a combination of models that may use
observable or unobservable valuation inputs as well as considering the
contractual terms.
The key valuation inputs used will depend on the type of derivative and the
nature of the underlying instruments and may include equity prices,
commodity prices, interest rate yield curves, foreign exchange rates,
volatilities, correlations, CDS spreads and recovery rates.  Additionally , the
credit quality of the counterparty and of the Firm as well as market funding
levels may also be considered.Level 2 or 3
 In addition, specific inputs used for derivatives that are valued based on
models with significant unobservable inputs are as follows:  
 Structured credit derivatives specific inputs include:  
   CDS spreads and recovery rates  
   Credit correlation between the underlying debt instruments  
 Equity option specific inputs include:  
   Forward equity price  
   Equity volatility  
   Equity correlation  
   Equity-FX correlation  
   Equity-IR correlation  
 Interest rate and FX exotic options specific inputs include:  
   Interest rate volatility  
   Interest rate spread volatility  
   Interest rate correlation  
   Foreign exchange correlation  
   Interest rate-FX correlation  
 Commodity derivatives specific inputs include:  
   Commodity volatility  
   Forward commodity price  
 Additionally , adjustments are made to reflect counterparty credit quality
(CVA) and the impact of funding (FV A). Refer to page 171 of this Note. 
  
Mortgage servicing rights Refer to Mortgage servicing rights in Note 15. Level 3
 
Private equity direct investments Fair value is estimated using all available information; the range of potential
inputs include:Level 2 or 3
• Transaction prices
 • Trading multiples of comparable public companies  
 • Operating performance of the underlying portfolio company  
 • Adjustments as required, since comparable public companies are not
identical to the company being valued, and for company-specific issues
and lack of liquidity .  
 • Additional available inputs relevant to the investment.  
Fund investments (e.g.,
mutual/collective investment
funds, private equity funds,
hedge funds, and real estate
funds)Net asset value  
• NA V is supported by the ability to redeem and purchase at the NA V level.Level 1
 
• Adjustments to the NA V as required, for restrictions on redemption (e.g.,
lock-up periods or withdrawal limitations) or where observable activity
is limited.Level 2 or 3 (a)
  
Beneficial interests issued by
consolidated VIEsValued using observable market information, where available. Level 2 or 3
In the absence of observable market information, valuations are based on the
fair value of the underlying assets held by the VIE.  
(a)Excludes certain investments that are measured at fair value using the net asset value per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 157
Notes to consolidated financial statements
 Product/instrument Valuation methodologyClassification in the valuation
hierar chy
 Structured notes (included in
deposits, short-term borrowings
and long-term debt)• Valuations are based on discounted cash flow analyses that consider the
embedded derivative and the terms and payment structure of the note.
• The embedded derivative features are considered using models such as
the Black-Scholes option pricing model, simulation models, or a
combination of models that may use observable or unobservable
valuation inputs, depending on the embedded derivative. The specific
inputs used vary according to the nature of the embedded derivative
features, as described in the discussion above regarding derivatives
valuation. Adjustments are then made to this base valuation to reflect
the Firm’ s own credit risk (DV A). Refer to page 171 of this Note.Level 2 or 3
 
 
 
 
158 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
The following table presents the assets and liabilities reported at fair value as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, by major product
category and fair value hierarchy.
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis   
 Fair value hierarchy   
December  31, 2019 (in millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3  Derivative netting
adjustments (f) Total fair value
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements $ — $ 14,561 $ — $ — $ 14,561
Securities borrowed — 6,237 — — 6,237
Trading assets:    
Debt instruments:    
Mortgage-backed securities:    
U.S. GSEs and government agencies (a) — 44,510 797 — 45,307
Residential – nonagency — 1,977 23 — 2,000
Commercial – nonagency — 1,486 4 — 1,490
Total mortgage-backed securities — 47,973 824 — 48,797
U.S. Treasury , GSEs and government agencies (a) 78,289 10,295 — — 88,584
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities — 6,468 10 — 6,478
Certificates of deposit, bankers’  acceptances and commercial paper — 252 — — 252
Non-U.S. government debt securities 26,600 27,169 155 — 53,924
Corporate debt securities — 17,956 558 — 18,514
Loans (b) — 47,047 1,382  — 48,429
Asset-backed securities — 2,593 37 — 2,630
Total debt instruments 104,889 159,753 2,966  — 267,608
Equity securities 71,890 244 196 — 72,330
Physical commodities (c) 3,638 3,579 — — 7,217
Other — 13,896 232 — 14,128
Total debt and equity instruments (d) 180,417 177,472 3,394  — 361,283
Derivative receivables:    
Interest rate 721 311,173 1,400  (285,873 ) 27,421
Credit — 14,252 624 (14,175 ) 701
Foreign exchange 117 137,938 432 (129,482 ) 9,005
Equity — 43,642 2,085  (39,250 ) 6,477
Commodity — 17,058 184 (11,080 ) 6,162
Total derivative r eceivables 838 524,063 4,725  (479,860 ) 49,766
Total trading assets (e) 181,255 701,535 8,119 (479,860 ) 411,049
Available-for -sale securities:    
Mortgage-backed securities:    
U.S. GSEs and government agencies (a) — 110,117 — — 110,117
Residential – nonagency — 12,989 1 — 12,990
Commercial – nonagency — 5,188 — — 5,188
Total mortgage-backed securities — 128,294 1 — 128,295
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 139,436 — — — 139,436
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities — 29,810 — — 29,810
Certificates of deposit — 77 — — 77
Non-U.S. government debt securities 12,966 8,821 — — 21,787
Corporate debt securities — 845 — — 845
Asset-backed securities:    
Collateralized loan obligations — 24,991 — — 24,991
Other — 5,458 — — 5,458
Total available-for -sale securities 152,402 198,296 1 — 350,699
Loans — 7,104 — — 7,104
Mortgage servicing rights — — 4,699  — 4,699
Other assets (e) 7,305 452 724 — 8,481
Total assets measur ed at fair  value on a r ecurring basis $ 340,962 $ 928,185 $ 13,543  $ (479,860 )$ 802,830
Deposits $ — $ 25,229 $ 3,360  $ — $ 28,589
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements — 549 — — 549
Short-term borrowings — 4,246 1,674  — 5,920
Trading liabilities:    
Debt and equity instruments (d) 59,047 16,481 41 — 75,569
Derivative payables:    
Interest rate 795 276,746 1,732  (270,670 ) 8,603
Credit — 14,358 763 (13,469 ) 1,652
Foreign exchange 109 143,960 1,039  (131,950 ) 13,158
Equity — 47,261 5,480  (40,204 ) 12,537
Commodity — 19,685 200 (12,127 ) 7,758
Total derivative payables 904 502,010 9,214  (468,420 ) 43,708
Total trading liabilities 59,951 518,491 9,255  (468,420 ) 119,277
Accounts payable and other liabilities 3,231 452 45 — 3,728
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs — 36 — — 36
Long-term debt — 52,406 23,339  — 75,745
Total liabilities measur ed at fair  value on a r ecurring basis $ 63,182 $ 601,409 $ 37,673  $ (468,420 )$ 233,844
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 159
Notes to consolidated financial statements
 Fair value hierarchy    
December 31, 2018 (in millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3  Derivative netting
adjustments (f) Total fair value
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements $ — $ 13,235 $ — $ — $ 13,235
Securities borrowed — 5,105 — — 5,105
Trading assets:    
Debt instruments:    
Mortgage-backed securities:    
U.S. GSEs and government agencies (a) — 76,249 549 — 76,798
Residential – nonagency — 1,798 64 — 1,862
Commercial – nonagency — 1,501 11 — 1,512
Total mortgage-backed securities — 79,548 624 — 80,172
U.S. Treasury , GSEs and government agencies (a) 51,477 7,702 — — 59,179
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities — 7,121 689 — 7,810
Certificates of deposit, bankers’  acceptances and commercial paper — 1,214 — — 1,214
Non-U.S. government debt securities 27,878 27,056 155 — 55,089
Corporate debt securities — 18,655 334 — 18,989
Loans (b) — 40,047 1,706  — 41,753
Asset-backed securities — 2,756 127 — 2,883
Total debt instruments 79,355 184,099 3,635  — 267,089
Equity securities 71,119 482 232 — 71,833
Physical commodities (c) 5,182 1,855 — — 7,037
Other — 13,192 301 — 13,493
Total debt and equity instruments (d) 155,656 199,628 4,168  — 359,452
Derivative receivables:   
Interest rate 682 266,380 1,642  (245,490 ) 23,214
Credit — 19,235 860 (19,483 ) 612
Foreign exchange 771 166,238 676 (154,235 ) 13,450
Equity — 46,777 2,508  (39,339 ) 9,946
Commodity — 20,339 131 (13,479 ) 6,991
Total derivative r eceivables 1,453 518,969 5,817  (472,026 ) 54,213
Total trading assets (e) 157,109 718,597 9,985  (472,026 ) 413,665
Available-for -sale securities:   
Mortgage-backed securities:   
U.S. GSEs and government agencies (a) — 68,646 — — 68,646
Residential – nonagency — 8,519 1 — 8,520
Commercial – nonagency — 6,654 — — 6,654
Total mortgage-backed securities — 83,819 1 — 83,820
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 56,059 — — — 56,059
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities — 37,723 — — 37,723
Certificates of deposit — 75 — — 75
Non-U.S. government debt securities 15,313 8,789 — — 24,102
Corporate debt securities — 1,918 — — 1,918
Asset-backed securities: — — — — —
Collateralized loan obligations — 19,437 — — 19,437
Other — 7,260 — — 7,260
Total available-for -sale securities 71,372 159,021 1 — 230,394
Loans — 3,029 122 — 3,151
Mortgage servicing rights — — 6,130  — 6,130
Other assets (e) 7,810 195 927 — 8,932
Total assets measur ed at fair  value on a r ecurring basis $ 236,291 $ 899,182 $ 17,165  $ (472,026 ) $ 680,612
Deposits $ — $ 19,048 $ 4,169  $ — $ 23,217
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements — 935 — — 935
Short-term borrowings — 5,607 1,523  — 7,130
Trading liabilities:   
Debt and equity instruments (d) 80,199 22,755 50 — 103,004
Derivative payables:   
Interest rate 1,526 239,576 1,680  (234,998 ) 7,784
Credit — 19,309 967 (18,609 ) 1,667
Foreign exchange 695 163,549 973 (152,432 ) 12,785
Equity — 46,462 4,733  (41,034 ) 10,161
Commodity — 21,158 1,260  (13,046 ) 9,372
Total derivative payables 2,221 490,054 9,613  (460,1 19) 41,769
Total trading liabilities 82,420 512,809 9,663  (460,1 19) 144,773
Accounts payable and other liabilities 3,063 196 10 — 3,269
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs — 27 1 — 28
Long-term debt — 35,468 19,418  — 54,886
Total liabilities measur ed at fair  value on a r ecurring basis $ 85,483 $ 574,090 $ 34,784  $ (460,1 19) $ 234,238
(a)At December 31, 2019 and 2018, included total U.S. GSE obligations of $104.5 billion and $92.3 billion, respectively, which were mortgage-related.
(b)At December 31, 2019 and 2018, included within trading loans were $19.8 billion and $13.2 billion, respectively, of residential first-lien mortgages, and $3.4
billion and $2.3 billion, respectively, of commercial first-lien mortgages. Residential mortgage loans include conforming mortgage loans originated with the
intent to sell to U.S. GSEs and government agencies of $13.6 billion and $7.6 billion, respectively.
(c)Physical commodities inventories are generally accounted for at the lower of cost or net realizable value. “Net realizable value” is a term defined in U.S. GAAP
as not exceeding fair value less costs to sell (“transaction costs”). Transaction costs for the Firm’s physical commodities inventories are either not applicable or
immaterial to the value of the inventory. Therefore, net realizable value approximates fair value for the Firm’s physical commodities inventories. When fair
value hedging has been applied (or when net realizable value is below cost), the carrying value of physical commodities
160 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
approximates fair value, because under fair value hedge accounting, the cost basis is adjusted for changes in fair value. Refer to Note 5 for a further discussion
of the Firm’s hedge accounting relationships. To provide consistent fair value disclosure information, all physical commodities inventories have been included
in each period presented.
(d)Balances reflect the reduction of securities owned (long positions) by the amount of identical securities sold but not yet purchased (short positions).
(e)Certain investments that are measured at fair value using the net asset value per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient are not required to be classified
in the fair value hierarchy. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the fair values of these investments, which include certain hedge funds, private equity funds, real
estate and other funds, were $684 million and $747 million, respectively. Included in these balances at December 31, 2019 and 2018, were trading assets of $54
million and $49 million, respectively, and other assets of $630 million and $698 million, respectively.
(f)As permitted under U.S. GAAP, the Firm has elected to net derivative receivables and derivative payables and the related cash collateral received and paid when
a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists. The level 3 balances would be reduced if netting were applied, including the netting benefit associated
with cash collateral.
 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 161
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Level 3 valuations
The Firm has established well-structured processes for
determining fair value, including for instruments where fair
value is estimated using significant unobservable inputs (level
3). Refer to pages 154–158 of this Note for further information
on the Firm’s valuation process and a detailed discussion of the
determination of fair value for individual financial instruments.
Estimating fair value requires the application of judgment. The
type and level of judgment required is largely dependent on the
amount of observable market information available to the
Firm. For instruments valued using internally developed
valuation models and other valuation techniques that use
significant unobservable inputs and are therefore classified
within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, judgments used to
estimate fair value are more significant than those required
when estimating the fair value of instruments classified within
levels 1 and 2.
In arriving at an estimate of fair value for an instrument within
level 3, management must first determine the appropriate
valuation model or other valuation technique to use. Second,
due to the lack of observability of significant inputs,
management must assess relevant empirical data in deriving
valuation inputs including transaction details, yield curves,
interest rates, prepayment speed, default rates, volatilities,
correlations, prices (such as commodity, equity or debt prices),
valuations of comparable instruments, foreign exchange rates
and credit curves.
The following table presents the Firm’s primary level 3
financial instruments, the valuation techniques used to measure
the fair value of those financial instruments, the significant
unobservable inputs, the range of values for those inputs and,
for certain instruments, the weighted averages of such inputs.
While the determination to classify an instrument within level
3 is based on the significance of the unobservable inputs to the
overall fair value measurement, level 3 financial instruments
typically include observable components (that is, components
that are actively quoted and can be validated to external
sources) in addition to the unobservable components. The level
1 and/or level 2 inputs are not included in the table. In
addition, the Firm manages the risk of the observable
components of level 3 financial instruments using securities
and derivative positions that are classified within levels 1 or 2
of the fair value hierarchy.
The range of values presented in the table is representative of
the highest and lowest level input used to value the significant
groups of instruments within a product/instrument
classification. Where provided, the weighted averages of the
input values presented in the table are calculated based on the
fair value of the instruments that the input is being used to
value. In the Firm’s view, the input range and the weighted average
value do not reflect the degree of input uncertainty or an
assessment of the reasonableness of the Firm’s estimates and
assumptions. Rather, they reflect the characteristics of the
various instruments held by the Firm and the relative
distribution of instruments within the range of characteristics.
For example, two option contracts may have similar levels of
market risk exposure and valuation uncertainty, but may have
significantly different implied volatility levels because the
option contracts have different underlyings, tenors, or strike
prices. The input range and weighted average values will
therefore vary from period-to-period and parameter-to-
parameter based on the characteristics of the instruments held
by the Firm at each balance sheet date.
For the Firm’s derivatives and structured notes positions
classified within level 3 at December 31, 2019, interest rate
correlation inputs used in estimating fair value were distributed
across the range; equity correlation, equity-FX and equity-IR
correlation inputs were concentrated in the middle of the
range; commodity correlation inputs were concentrated in the
middle of the range; credit correlation inputs were
concentrated towards the lower end of the range; and forward
equity prices and the interest rate-foreign exchange (“IR-FX”)
correlation inputs were distributed across the range. In
addition, the interest rate volatility and interest rate spread
volatility inputs used in estimating fair value were distributed
across the range; equity volatilities and commodity volatilities
were concentrated towards the lower end of the range; and
forward commodity prices used in estimating the fair value of
commodity derivatives were concentrated in the middle of the
range. Prepayment speed inputs used in estimating the fair
value of interest rate derivatives were concentrated towards the
lower end of the range. Recovery rate inputs used in estimating
the fair value of credit derivatives were distributed across the
range; credit spreads were concentrated towards the lower end
of the range; conditional default rates and loss severity inputs
were concentrated towards the upper end of the range and
price inputs were concentrated towards the lower end of the
range.
162 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Level 3 inputs(a)
December 31, 2019    
Product/InstrumentFair value (in
millions) Principal valuation
technique Unobservable inputs(g) Range of input valuesWeighted
average
Residential mortgage-backed securities and
loans(b)$ 976 Discounted cash flows Yield 2% – 18% 6%
Prepayment speed 0% – 26% 13%
Conditional default rate 0% – 5% 0%
Loss severity 0% – 100% 5%
Commercial mortgage-backed securities and
loans(c) 99 Market comparables Price $0 – $100 $79
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 10 Market comparables Price $71 – $100 $95
Corporate debt securities 558 Market comparables Price $4 – $112 $72
Loans(d) 193 Discounted cash flows Yield 5% – 28% 8%
 939 Market comparables Price $2 – $116 $70
Asset-backed securities 37 Market comparables Price $1 – $102 $71
Net interest rate derivatives (395)Option pricing Interest rate volatility 6% – 44%
Interest rate spread volatility 20bps – 30bps
Interest rate correlation (65)% – 94%
IR-FX correlation (58)% – 40%
63 Discounted cash flows Prepayment speed 4% – 30%
Net credit derivatives (174)Discounted cash flows Credit correlation 31% – 59%
Credit spread 3bps – 1,308bps
Recovery rate 15% – 70%
Conditional default rate 2% – 18%
Loss severity 100%
35 Market comparables Price $1 – $115
Net foreign exchange derivatives (469)Option pricing IR-FX correlation (58)% – 65%
(138)Discounted cash flows Prepayment speed 9%
Net equity derivatives (3,395)Option pricing Forward equity price(h) 92% – 105%
Equity volatility 9% – 93%
Equity correlation 10% – 97%
Equity-FX correlation (81)% – 60%
Equity-IR correlation 25% – 35%
Net commodity derivatives (16)Option pricing Forward commodity price $39 –$ 76 per barrel
Commodity volatility 5% – 105%
Commodity correlation (48)% – 95%
MSRs 4,699 Discounted cash flows Refer to Note 15
Other assets 222 Discounted cash flows Credit spread 45bps 45bps
Yield 12% 12%
734 Market comparables Price $17 – $117 $37
Long-term debt, short-term borrowings, and
deposits(e)28,373 Option pricing Interest rate volatility 6% – 44%
Interest rate correlation (65)% – 94%
IR-FX correlation (58)% – 40%
Equity correlation 10% – 97%
Equity-FX correlation (81)% – 60%
Equity-IR correlation 25% – 35%
Other level 3 assets and liabilities, net(f) 265
(a)The categories presented in the table have been aggregated based upon the product type, which may differ from their classification on the Consolidated balance
sheets. Furthermore, the inputs presented for each valuation technique in the table are, in some cases, not applicable to every instrument valued using the
technique as the characteristics of the instruments can differ.
(b)Comprises U.S. GSEs and government agency securities of $797 million, nonagency securities of $24 million and trading loans of $155 million.
(c)Comprises nonagency securities of $4 million and trading loans of $95 million.
(d)Comprises trading loans.
(e)Long-term debt, short-term borrowings and deposits include structured notes issued by the Firm that are financial instruments that typically contain embedded
derivatives. The estimation of the fair value of structured notes includes the derivative features embedded within the instrument. The significant unobservable
inputs are broadly consistent with those presented for derivative receivables.
(f)Includes level 3 assets and liabilities that are insignificant both individually and in aggregate.
(g)Price is a significant unobservable input for certain instruments. When quoted market prices are not readily available, reliance is generally placed on price-based
internal valuation techniques. The price input is expressed assuming a par value of $100.
(h)Forward equity price is expressed as a percentage of the current equity price.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 163
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Changes in and ranges of unobservable inputs
The following discussion provides a description of the impact
on a fair value measurement of a change in each unobservable
input in isolation, and the interrelationship between
unobservable inputs, where relevant and significant. The
impact of changes in inputs may not be independent, as a
change in one unobservable input may give rise to a change in
another unobservable input. Where relationships do exist
between two unobservable inputs, those relationships are
discussed below. Relationships may also exist between
observable and unobservable inputs (for example, as
observable interest rates rise, unobservable prepayment rates
decline); such relationships have not been included in the
discussion below. In addition, for each of the individual
relationships described below, the inverse relationship would
also generally apply.
The following discussion also provides a description of
attributes of the underlying instruments and external market
factors that affect the range of inputs used in the valuation of
the Firm’s positions.
Yield – The yield of an asset is the interest rate used to
discount future cash flows in a discounted cash flow
calculation. An increase in the yield, in isolation, would result
in a decrease in a fair value measurement.
Credit spread – The credit spread is the amount of additional
annualized return over the market interest rate that a market
participant would demand for taking exposure to the credit risk
of an instrument. The credit spread for an instrument forms
part of the discount rate used in a discounted cash flow
calculation. Generally, an increase in the credit spread would
result in a decrease in a fair value measurement.
The yield and the credit spread of a particular mortgage-
backed security primarily reflect the risk inherent in the
instrument. The yield is also impacted by the absolute level of
the coupon paid by the instrument (which may not correspond
directly to the level of inherent risk). Therefore, the range of
yield and credit spreads reflects the range of risk inherent in
various instruments owned by the Firm. The risk inherent in
mortgage-backed securities is driven by the subordination of
the security being valued and the characteristics of the
underlying mortgages within the collateralized pool, including
borrower FICO scores, LTV ratios for residential mortgages
and the nature of the property and/or any tenants for
commercial mortgages. For corporate debt securities,
obligations of U.S. states and municipalities and other similar
instruments, credit spreads reflect the credit quality of the
obligor and the tenor of the obligation.
Prepayment speed – The prepayment speed is a measure of the
voluntary unscheduled principal repayments of a prepayable
obligation in a collateralized pool. Prepayment speeds
generally decline as borrower delinquencies rise. An increase
in prepayment speeds, in isolation, would result in a decrease
in a fair value measurement of assets valued at a premium to
par and an increase in a fair value measurement of assets
valued at a discount to par.
Prepayment speeds may vary from collateral pool to collateral
pool, and are driven by the type and location of the underlying borrower, and the remaining tenor of the obligation
as well as the level and type (e.g., fixed or floating) of interest
rate being paid by the borrower. Typically collateral pools with
higher borrower credit quality have a higher prepayment rate
than those with lower borrower credit quality, all other factors
being equal.
Conditional default rate – The conditional default rate is a
measure of the reduction in the outstanding collateral balance
underlying a collateralized obligation as a result of defaults.
While there is typically no direct relationship between
conditional default rates and prepayment speeds, collateralized
obligations for which the underlying collateral has high
prepayment speeds will tend to have lower conditional default
rates. An increase in conditional default rates would generally
be accompanied by an increase in loss severity and an increase
in credit spreads. An increase in the conditional default rate, in
isolation, would result in a decrease in a fair value
measurement. Conditional default rates reflect the quality of
the collateral underlying a securitization and the structure of
the securitization itself. Based on the types of securities owned
in the Firm’s market-making portfolios, conditional default
rates are most typically at the lower end of the range presented.
Loss severity – The loss severity (the inverse concept is the
recovery rate) is the expected amount of future realized losses
resulting from the ultimate liquidation of a particular loan,
expressed as the net amount of loss relative to the outstanding
loan balance. An increase in loss severity is generally
accompanied by an increase in conditional default rates. An
increase in the loss severity, in isolation, would result in a
decrease in a fair value measurement.
The loss severity applied in valuing a mortgage-backed
security investment depends on factors relating to the
underlying mortgages, including the LTV ratio, the nature of
the lender’s lien on the property and other instrument-specific
factors.
164 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Correlation – Correlation is a measure of the relationship
between the movements of two variables. Correlation is a
pricing input for a derivative product where the payoff is
driven by one or more underlying risks. Correlation inputs are
related to the type of derivative (e.g., interest rate, credit,
equity, foreign exchange and commodity) due to the nature of
the underlying risks. When parameters are positively
correlated, an increase in one parameter will result in an
increase in the other parameter. When parameters are
negatively correlated, an increase in one parameter will result
in a decrease in the other parameter. An increase in correlation
can result in an increase or a decrease in a fair value
measurement. Given a short correlation position, an increase in
correlation, in isolation, would generally result in a decrease in
a fair value measurement.
The level of correlation used in the valuation of derivatives
with multiple underlying risks depends on a number of factors
including the nature of those risks. For example, the
correlation between two credit risk exposures would be
different than that between two interest rate risk exposures.
Similarly, the tenor of the transaction may also impact the
correlation input, as the relationship between the underlying
risks may be different over different time periods.
Furthermore, correlation levels are very much dependent on
market conditions and could have a relatively wide range of
levels within or across asset classes over time, particularly in
volatile market conditions.
Volatility – Volatility is a measure of the variability in possible
returns for an instrument, parameter or market index given
how much the particular instrument, parameter or index
changes in value over time. Volatility is a pricing input for
options, including equity options, commodity options, and
interest rate options. Generally, the higher the volatility of the
underlying, the riskier the instrument. Given a long position in
an option, an increase in volatility, in isolation, would
generally result in an increase in a fair value measurement.
The level of volatility used in the valuation of a particular
option-based derivative depends on a number of factors,
including the nature of the risk underlying the option (e.g., the
volatility of a particular equity security may be significantly
different from that of a particular commodity index), the tenor
of the derivative as well as the strike price of the option. Forward price - Forward price is the price at which the buyer
agrees to purchase the asset underlying a forward contract on
the predetermined future delivery date, and is such that the
value of the contract is zero at inception.
The forward price is used as an input in the valuation of certain
derivatives and depends on a number of factors including
interest rates, the current price of the underlying asset, and the
expected income to be received and costs to be incurred by the
seller as a result of holding that asset until the delivery date.
An increase in the forward can result in an increase or a
decrease in a fair value measurement.
Changes in level 3 recurring fair value measurements
The following tables include a rollforward of the Consolidated
balance sheets amounts (including changes in fair value) for
financial instruments classified by the Firm within level 3 of
the fair value hierarchy for the years ended December 31,
2019, 2018 and 2017. When a determination is made to
classify a financial instrument within level 3, the determination
is based on the significance of the unobservable inputs to the
overall fair value measurement. However, level 3 financial
instruments typically include, in addition to the unobservable
or level 3 components, observable components (that is,
components that are actively quoted and can be validated to
external sources); accordingly, the gains and losses in the table
below include changes in fair value due in part to observable
factors that are part of the valuation methodology. Also, the
Firm risk-manages the observable components of level 3
financial instruments using securities and derivative positions
that are classified within level 1 or 2 of the fair value
hierarchy; as these level 1 and level 2 risk management
instruments are not included below, the gains or losses in the
following tables do not reflect the effect of the Firm’s risk
management activities related to such level 3 instruments.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 165
Notes to consolidated financial statements
 Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs   
Year ended
December 31, 2019
(in millions)Fair
value at
January
1, 2019Total
realized/unrealized
gains/(losses) 
Transfers
into
level 3(h)Transfers
(out of) level
3(h)Fair
value at
Dec. 31,
2019Change in
unrealized
gains/(losses)
related to financial
instruments held at
Dec. 31, 2019 Purchases(f) Sales Settlements(g)
Assets:(a)      
Trading assets:      
Debt instruments:      
Mortgage-backed securities:      
U.S. GSEs and government
agencies $ 549$ (62) $ 773$ (310) $ (134)$ 1$ (20)$ 797 $ (58)
Residential – nonagency 64 25 83 (86) (20) 15 (58) 23 2
Commercial – nonagency 11 2 20 (26) (14) 15 (4) 4 1
Total mortgage-backed
securities 624 (35) 876 (422) (168) 31 (82) 824 (55)
U.S. Treasury, GSEs and
government agencies — — — — — — — — —
Obligations of U.S. states and
municipalities 689 13 85 (159) (8) — (610) 10 13
Non-U.S. government debt
securities 155 1 290 (287) — 14 (18) 155 4
Corporate debt securities 334 47 437 (247) (52) 112 (73) 558 40
Loans 1,706 132 727 (708) (562) 625 (538) 1,382 51
Asset-backed securities 127 — 37 (93) (40) 28 (22) 37 (3)
Total debt instruments 3,635 158 2,452 (1,916) (830) 810 (1,343) 2,966 50
Equity securities 232 (41) 58 (103) (22) 181 (109) 196 (18)
Other 301 (36) 50 (26) (54) 2 (5) 232 91
Total trading assets – debt and
equity instruments 4,168 81 (c) 2,560 (2,045) (906) 993 (1,457) 3,394 123(c) 
Net derivative receivables:(b)      
Interest rate (38) (394) 109 (125) 5 (7) 118 (332) (599)
Credit (107) (36) 20 (9) 8 29 (44) (139) (127)
Foreign exchange (297) (551) 17 (67) 312 (22) 1 (607) (380)
Equity (2,225) (310) 397 (573) (503) (405) 224 (3,395) (1,608)
Commodity (1,129) 497 36 (348) 89 (6) 845 (16) 130
Total net derivative receivables (3,796) (794)(c) 579 (1,122) (89) (411) 1,144 (4,489) (2,584)(c) 
Available-for-sale securities:      
Mortgage-backed securities 1 — — — — — — 1 —
Asset-backed securities — — — — — — — — —
Total available-for-sale securities 1 — — — — — — 1 —
Loans 122 4 (c) — — (125) — (1) — —
Mortgage servicing rights 6,130 (1,180)(d) 1,489 (789) (951) — — 4,699 (1,180)(d) 
Other assets 927 (198)(c) 194 (165) (33) 6 (7) 724 (180)(c) 
      
 Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs   
Year ended
December 31, 2019
(in millions)Fair
value at
January
1, 2019Total
realized/unrealized
(gains)/losses 
Transfers
(out of) level
3(h)Fair
value at
Dec. 31,
2019Change in
unrealized
gains/(losses)
related to financial
instruments held at
Dec. 31, 2019 Purchases Sales IssuancesSettlements(g)Transfers
into
level 3(h)
Liabilities:(a)      
Deposits $4,169$ 278 (c)(e) $ — $ — $ 916$ (806)$ 12$ (1,209)$3,360 $ 307(c)(e) 
Short-term borrowings 1,523 229 (c)(e) — — 3,441 (3,356) 85 (248) 1,674 155(c)(e) 
Trading liabilities – debt and equity
instruments 50 2 (c) (22) 41 — 1 16 (47) 41 3(c) 
Accounts payable and other
liabilities 10 (2)(c) (84) 115 — — 6 — 45 29(c) 
Beneficial interests issued by
consolidated VIEs 1 (1)(c) — — — — — — — —
Long-term debt 19,418 2,815 (c)(e) — — 10,441 (8,538) 651 (1,448)23,339 2,822(c)(e) 
166 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
 Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs   
Year ended
December 31, 2018
(in millions)Fair
value at
January
1, 2018Total
realized/unrealized
gains/(losses)   
Transfers
(out of) level
3(h)Fair
value at
Dec. 31,
2018 Change in
unrealized
gains/(losses)
related to
financial
instruments held
at Dec. 31, 2018 Purchases(f) Sales Settlements(g)Transfers
into
level 3(h)
Assets:(a)          
Trading assets:          
Debt instruments:          
Mortgage-backed securities:         
U.S. GSEs and government
agencies $ 307$ (23) $ 478$(164) $ (73)$ 94$ (70)$ 549 $(21) 
Residential – nonagency 60 (2) 78 (50) (7) 59 (74) 64 1 
Commercial – nonagency 11 2 18 (18) (17) 36 (21) 11 (2) 
Total mortgage-backed
securities 378 (23) 574 (232) (97) 189 (165) 624 (22) 
U.S. Treasury, GSEs and
government agencies 1 — — — — — (1) — — 
Obligations of U.S. states and
municipalities 744 (17) 112 (70) (80) — — 689 (17) 
Non-U.S. government debt
securities 78 (22) 459 (277) (12) 23 (94) 155 (9) 
Corporate debt securities 312 (18) 364 (309) (48) 262 (229) 334 (1) 
Loans 2,719 26 1,364 (1,793) (658) 813 (765) 1,706 (1) 
Asset-backed securities 153 28 98 (41) (55) 45 (101) 127 22 
Total debt instruments 4,385 (26) 2,971 (2,722) (950) 1,332 (1,355) 3,635 (28) 
Equity securities 295 (40) 118 (120) (1) 107 (127) 232 9 
Other 690 (285) 55 (40) (118) 3 (4) 301 (301) 
Total trading assets – debt and
equity instruments 5,370 (351)(c) 3,144 (2,882) (1,069) 1,442 (1,486) 4,168 (320)(c) 
Net derivative receivables:(b)    
Interest rate 264 150 107 (133) (430) (15) 19 (38) 187 
Credit (35) (40) 5 (7) (57) 4 23 (107) (28) 
Foreign exchange (396) 103 52 (20) 30 (108) 42 (297) (63) 
Equity (3,409) 198 1,676 (2,208) 1,805 (617) 330 (2,225) 561 
Commodity (674) (73) 1 (72) (301) 7 (17)(1,129) 146 
Total net derivative receivables(4,250) 338 (c) 1,841 (2,440) 1,047 (729) 397 (3,796) 803(c) 
Available-for-sale securities:      
Mortgage-backed securities 1 — — — — — — 1 — 
Asset-backed securities 276 1 — — (277) — — — — 
Total available-for-sale securities 277 1 (i) — — (277) — — 1 — 
Loans 276 (7)(c) 123 — (196) — (74) 122 (7)(c) 
Mortgage servicing rights 6,030 230 (d) 1,246 (636) (740) — — 6,130 230(d) 
Other assets 1,265 (328)(c) 61 (37) (37) 4 (1) 927 (340)(c) 
          
 Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs   
Year ended
December 31, 2018
(in millions)Fair
value at
January
1, 2018Total
realized/unrealized
(gains)/losses   
Transfers
(out of) level
3(h)Fair
value at
Dec. 31,
2018 Change in
unrealized
(gains)/losses
related to
financial
instruments held
at Dec. 31, 2018 Purchases Sales IssuancesSettlements(g)Transfers
into
level 3(h)
Liabilities:(a)          
Deposits $4,142$ (136)(c)(e) $ — $ — $ 1,437$ (736)$ 2$ (540)$4,169 $(204)(c)(e) 
Short-term borrowings 1,665 (329)(c)(e) — — 3,455 (3,388) 272 (152) 1,523 (131)(c)(e) 
Trading liabilities – debt and equity
instruments 39 19 (c) (99) 114 — (1) 14 (36) 50 16(c) 
Accounts payable and other
liabilities 13 — (12) 5 — — 4 — 10 — 
Beneficial interests issued by
consolidated VIEs 39 — — 1 — (39) — — 1 — 
Long-term debt 16,125 (1,169)(c)(e) — — 11,919 (7,769) 1,143 (831)19,418 (1,385)(c)(e) 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 167
Notes to consolidated financial statements
 Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs  
Year ended
December 31, 2017
(in millions)Fair
value at
January
1, 2017Total
realized/unrealized
gains/(losses)  
Transfers
(out of)
level 3(h)Fair
value at
Dec. 31,
2017Change in
unrealized
gains/(losses)
related to
financial
instruments held
at Dec. 31, 2017 Purchases(f) Sales Settlements(g)Transfers
into
level 3(h)
Assets:(a)       
Trading assets:       
Debt instruments:       
Mortgage-backed securities:      
U.S. GSEs and government
agencies $ 392$ (11) $ 161 $(171) $ (70) $ 49$ (43)$ 307 $(20)
Residential – nonagency 83 19 53 (30) (64) 132 (133) 60 11
Commercial – nonagency 17 9 27 (44) (13) 64 (49) 11 1
Total mortgage-backed
securities 492 17 241 (245) (147) 245 (225) 378 (8)
U.S. Treasury, GSEs and
government agencies — — — — — 1 — 1 —
Obligations of U.S. states and
municipalities 649 18 152 (70) (5) — — 744 15
Non-U.S. government debt
securities 46 — 559 (518) — 62 (71) 78 —
Corporate debt securities 576 11 872 (612) (497) 157 (195) 312 18
Loans 4,837 333 2,389 (2,832) (1,323) 806 (1,491) 2,719 43
Asset-backed securities 302 32 354 (356) (56) 75 (198) 153 —
Total debt instruments 6,902 411 4,567 (4,633) (2,028) 1,346 (2,180) 4,385 68
Equity securities 231 39 176 (148) (4) 59 (58) 295 21
Other 761 100 30 (46) (162) 17 (10) 690 39
Total trading assets – debt and
equity instruments 7,894 550 (c) 4,773 (4,827) (2,194) 1,422 (2,248) 5,370 128(c) 
Net derivative receivables:(b)  
Interest rate 1,263 72 60 (82) (1,040) (8) (1) 264 (473)
Credit 98 (164) 1 (6) — 77 (41) (35) 32
Foreign exchange (1,384) 43 13 (10) 854 (61) 149 (396) 42
Equity (2,252) (417) 1,116 (551) (245) (1,482) 422 (3,409) (161)
Commodity (85) (149) — — (433) (6) (1) (674) (718)
Total net derivative
receivables (2,360) (615)(c) 1,190 (649) (864) (1,480) 528 (4,250) (1,278)(c) 
Available-for-sale securities:   
Mortgage-backed securities 1 — — — — — — 1 —
Asset-backed securities 663 15 — (50) (352) — — 276 14
Total available-for-sale securities 664 15 (i) — (50) (352) — — 277 14(i) 
Loans 570 35 (c) — (26) (303) — — 276 3(c) 
Mortgage servicing rights 6,096 (232)(d) 1,103 (140) (797) — — 6,030 (232)(d) 
Other assets 2,223 244 (c) 66 (177) (870) — (221) 1,265 74(c) 
       
 Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs  
Year ended
December 31, 2017
(in millions)Fair
value at
January
1, 2017Total
realized/unrealized
(gains)/losses 
Transfers
into
level 3(h)Transfers
(out of)
level 3(h)Fair
value at
Dec. 31,
2017Change in
unrealized
(gains)/losses
related to
financial
instruments held
at Dec. 31, 2017 Purchases SalesIssuances Settlements(g)
Liabilities:(a)       
Deposits $2,117$ 152 (c)(e) $ — $— $3,027 $ (291) $ 11$ (874)$4,142 $198(c)(e) 
Short-term borrowings 1,134 42 (c)(e) — — 3,289 (2,748) 150 (202) 1,665 7(c)(e) 
Trading liabilities – debt and
equity instruments 43 (3)(c) (46) 48 — 3 3 (9) 39 —
Accounts payable and other
liabilities 13 (2)(c) (1) — — 3 — — 13 (2)(c) 
Beneficial interests issued by 48 2 (c) (122) 39 — (6) 78 — 39 —
consolidated VIEs
Long-term debt 12,850 1,067 (c)(e) — — 12,458 (10,985) 1,660 (925)16,125 552(c)(e) 
168 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
(a) Level 3 assets as a percentage of total Firm assets accounted for at fair value (including assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis) were 2%, 3% and 3% at December 31, 2019,
2018 and 2017, respectively . Level 3 liabilities as a percentage of total Firm liabilities accounted for at fair value (including liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis) were
16%, 15% and 15% at December 31, 2019 , 2018  and 2017 , respectively .
(b)All level 3 derivatives are presented on a net basis, irrespective of underlying counterparty.
(c)Predominantly reported in principal transactions revenue, except for changes in fair value for CCB mortgage loans, and lending-related commitments originated with the intent to sell,
and mortgage loan purchase commitments, which are reported in mortgage fees and related income.
(d)Changes in fair value for MSRs are reported in mortgage fees and related income.
(e)Realized (gains)/losses due to DVA for fair value option elected liabilities are reported in principal transactions revenue, and they were not material for the years ended December 31,
2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Unrealized (gains)/losses are reported in OCI, and they were $319 million, $(277) million and $(48) million for the years ended December 31,
2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
(f)Loan originations are included in purchases.
(g)Includes financial assets and liabilities that have matured, been partially or fully repaid, impacts of modifications, deconsolidation associated with beneficial interests in VIEs and other
items.
(h)All transfers into and/or out of level 3 are based on changes in the observability and/or significance of the valuation inputs and are assumed to occur at the beginning of the quarterly
reporting period in which they occur.
(i)Realized gains/(losses) on AFS securities, as well as other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) losses that are recorded in earnings, are reported in investment securities
gains/(losses). Unrealized gains/(losses) are reported in OCI. There were no realized gains/(losses) and foreign exchange hedge accounting adjustments recorded in income on AFS
securities for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2017, respectively and $1 million recorded for the year ended December 31, 2018. There were no unrealized gains/(losses)
recorded on AFS securities in OCI for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively and $15 million recorded for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Level 3 analysis
Consolidated balance sheets changes
Level 3 assets (including assets measured at fair value on a
nonrecurring basis) were 0.6% of total Firm assets at
December 31, 2019. The following describes significant
changes to level 3 assets since December 31, 2018, for those
items measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Refer to
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring
basis on page 172 for further information on changes
impacting items measured at fair value on a nonrecurring
basis.
For the year ended December 31, 2019
Level 3 assets were $13.5 billion at December 31, 2019,
reflecting a decrease of $3.6 billion from December 31, 2018,
partially due to a $1.4 billion decrease in MSRs. Refer to the
Gains and losses section below for additional information.
Transfers between levels for instruments carried at
fair value on a recurring basis
During the year ended December 31, 2019, significant
transfers from level 2 into level 3 included the following:
•$993 million of total debt and equity instruments, the
majority of which were trading loans, driven by a decrease
in observability.
•$904 million of gross equity derivative payables as a result
of a decrease in observability and an increase in the
significance of unobservable inputs.
During the year ended December 31, 2019, significant
transfers from level 3 into level 2 included the following:
•$1.5 billion of total debt and equity instruments, the
majority of which were obligations of U.S. states and
municipalities and trading loans, driven by an increase in
observability.
•$1.1 billion of gross equity derivative receivables and $1.3
billion of gross equity derivative payables as a result of an
increase in observability and a decrease in the significance
of unobservable inputs.
•$962 million of gross commodities derivative payables as a
result of an increase in observability.
•$1.2 billion of deposits as a result of an increase in
observability and a decrease in the significance of
unobservable inputs. •$1.4 billion of long-term debt as a result of an increase in
observability and a decrease in the significance of
unobservable inputs.
During the year ended December 31, 2018, significant
transfers from level 2 into level 3 included the following:
•$1.4 billion of total debt and equity instruments, the
majority of which were trading loans, driven by a decrease
in observability.
•$1.0 billion of gross equity derivative receivables and $1.6
billion of gross equity derivative payables as a result of a
decrease in observability and an increase in the significance
of unobservable inputs.
•$1.1 billion of long-term debt driven by a decrease in
observability and an increase in the significance of
unobservable inputs for certain structured notes.
During the year ended December 31, 2018, significant
transfers from level 3 into level 2 included the following:
•$1.5 billion of total debt and equity instruments, the
majority of which were trading loans, driven by an increase
in observability.
•$1.2 billion of gross equity derivative receivables and $1.5
billion of gross equity derivative payables as a result of an
increase in observability and a decrease in the significance
of unobservable inputs.
During the year ended December 31, 2017, significant
transfers from level 2 into level 3 included the following:
•$1.0 billion of gross equity derivative receivables and $2.5
billion of gross equity derivative payables as a result of a
decrease in observability and an increase in the significance
of unobservable inputs.
•$1.7 billion of long-term debt driven by a decrease in
observability and an increase in the significance of
unobservable inputs for certain structured notes.
During the year ended December 31, 2017, significant
transfers from level 3 into level 2 included the following:
•$1.5 billion of trading loans driven by an increase in
observability.
•$1.2 billion of gross equity derivative payables as a result
of an increase in observability and a decrease in the
significance of unobservable inputs.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 169
Notes to consolidated financial statements
All transfers are based on changes in the observability and/or
significance of the valuation inputs and are assumed to occur
at the beginning of the quarterly reporting period in which they
occur.
Gains and losses
The following describes significant components of total
realized/unrealized gains/(losses) for instruments measured at
fair value on a recurring basis for the years ended
December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. These amounts exclude
any effects of the Firm’s risk management activities where the
financial instruments are classified as level 1 and 2 of the fair
value hierarchy. Refer to Changes in level 3 recurring fair
value measurements rollforward tables on pages 165–169 for
further information on these instruments.
2019
•$2.1 billion of net losses on assets largely due to MSRs
reflecting faster prepayment speeds on lower rates. Refer to
Note 15 for additional information on MSRs.
•$3.3 billion of net losses on liabilities predominantly driven
by market movements in long-term debt.
2018
•$1.6 billion of net gains on liabilities largely driven by
market movements in long-term debt.
2017
•$1.3 billion of net losses on liabilities predominantly driven
by market movements in long-term debt.
170 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Credit and funding adjustments – derivatives
Derivatives are generally valued using models that use as their
basis observable market parameters. These market parameters
generally do not consider factors such as counterparty
nonperformance risk, the Firm’s own credit quality, and
funding costs. Therefore, it is generally necessary to make
adjustments to the base estimate of fair value to reflect these
factors.
CVA represents the adjustment, relative to the relevant
benchmark interest rate, necessary to reflect counterparty
nonperformance risk. The Firm estimates CVA using a
scenario analysis to estimate the expected positive credit
exposure across all of the Firm’s existing positions with each
counterparty, and then estimates losses based on the
probability of default and estimated recovery rate as a result of
a counterparty credit event considering contractual factors
designed to mitigate the Firm’s credit exposure, such as
collateral and legal rights of offset. The key inputs to this
methodology are (i) the probability of a default event occurring
for each counterparty, as derived from observed or estimated
CDS spreads; and (ii) estimated recovery rates implied by
CDS spreads, adjusted to consider the differences in recovery
rates as a derivative creditor relative to those reflected in CDS
spreads, which generally reflect senior unsecured creditor risk.
FVA represents the adjustment to reflect the impact of funding
and is recognized where there is evidence that a market
participant in the principal market would incorporate it in a
transfer of the instrument. The Firm’s FVA framework, applied
to uncollateralized (including partially collateralized) over-the-
counter (“OTC”) derivatives incorporates key inputs such as:
(i) the expected funding requirements arising from the Firm’s
positions with each counterparty and collateral arrangements; and (ii) the
estimated market funding cost in the principal market which,
for derivative liabilities, considers the Firm’s credit risk
(DVA). For collateralized derivatives, the fair value is
estimated by discounting expected future cash flows at the
relevant overnight indexed swap rate given the underlying
collateral agreement with the counterparty, and therefore a
separate FVA is not necessary.
The following table provides the impact of credit and funding
adjustments on principal transactions revenue in the respective
periods, excluding the effect of any associated hedging
activities. The FVA presented below includes the impact of the
Firm’s own credit quality on the inception value of liabilities
as well as the impact of changes in the Firm’s own credit
quality over time.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2019 2018  2017
Credit and funding adjustments:  
Derivatives CVA $ 241$ 193 $ 802
Derivatives FVA 199 (74) (295)
Valuation adjustments on fair value option elected
liabilities
The valuation of the Firm’s liabilities for which the fair value
option has been elected requires consideration of the Firm’s
own credit risk. DVA on fair value option elected liabilities
reflects changes (subsequent to the issuance of the liability) in
the Firm’s probability of default and LGD, which are estimated
based on changes in the Firm’s credit spread observed in the
bond market. Realized (gains)/losses due to DVA for fair value
option elected liabilities are reported in principal transactions
revenue. Unrealized (gains)/losses are reported in OCI. Refer
to page 169 in this Note and Note 24 for further information.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 171
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis
The following tables present the assets held as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, for which a nonrecurring fair value
adjustment was recorded during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, by major product category and fair
value hierarchy.
 Fair value hierarchy
Total fair value December 31, 2019 (in millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Loans $ —$ 3,462(b) $ 269(c) $ 3,731
Other assets(a) — 14 1,029 1,043
Total assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis $ —$ 3,476 $ 1,298  $ 4,774
 Fair value hierarchy  
Total fair value December 31, 2018 (in millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 
Loans $ —$ 273 $ 264 $ 537
Other assets — 8 815 823
Total assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis $ —$ 281 $ 1,079 $ 1,360
(a) Primarily includes equity securities without readily determinable fair values that were adjusted based on observable price changes in orderly transactions from an
identical or similar investment of the same issuer (measurement alternative). Of the $1.0 billion in level 3 assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis
as of December 31, 2019, $787 million related to such equity securities. These equity securities are classified as level 3 due to the infrequency of the observable
prices and/or the restrictions on the shares.
(b) Primarily includes certain mortgage loans that were reclassified to held-for-sale.
(c) Of the $269 million in level 3 assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis as of December 31, 2019, $248 million related to residential real estate loans
carried at the net realizable value of the underlying collateral (e.g., collateral-dependent loans and other loans charged off in accordance with regulatory
guidance). These amounts are classified as level 3 as they are valued using information from broker’s price opinions, appraisals and automated valuation models
and discounted based upon the Firm’s experience with actual liquidation values. These discounts ranged from 14% to 49% with a weighted average of 28%.
There were no liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis at December 31, 2019 and 2018.
Nonrecurring fair value changes
The following table presents the total change in value of assets
and liabilities for which a fair value adjustment has been
recognized for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and
2017, related to assets and liabilities held at those dates.
December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Loans $(274)(a) $ (68) $(159)
Other assets 168(b) 132(b) (148)
Accounts payable and other
liabilities — — (1)
Total nonrecurring fair value
gains/(losses) $(106) $ 64 $(308)
(a)Primarily includes the impact of certain mortgage loans that were
reclassified to held-for-sale.
(b)Included $187 million and $149 million for the years ended December 31,
2019 and 2018, respectively, of net gains as a result of the measurement
alternative.
Refer to Note 12 for further information about the
measurement of impaired collateral-dependent loans, and other
loans where the carrying value is based on the fair value of the
underlying collateral (e.g., residential mortgage loans charged
off in accordance with regulatory guidance).
172 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Equity securities without readily determinable fair values
The Firm measures certain equity securities without readily determinable fair values at cost less impairment (if any), plus or minus
observable price changes from an identical or similar investment of the same issuer, with such changes recognized in other income.
In its determination of the new carrying values upon observable price changes, the Firm may adjust the prices if deemed necessary
to arrive at the Firm’s estimated fair values. Such adjustments may include adjustments to reflect the different rights and obligations
of similar securities, and other adjustments that are consistent with the Firm’s valuation techniques for private equity direct
investments.
The following table presents the carrying value of equity securities without readily determinable fair values held as of December
31, 2019 and 2018, that are measured under the measurement alternative and the related adjustments recorded during the periods
presented for those securities with observable price changes. These securities are included in the nonrecurring fair value tables
when applicable price changes are observable.
As of or for the year ended December 31,  
(in millions) 2019 2018
Other assets  
Carrying value $ 2,441$ 1,510
Upward carrying value changes(a) 229 309
Downward carrying value changes/impairment(b) (42) (160)
(a)The cumulative upward carrying value changes between January 1, 2018 and December 31, 2019 were $528 million.
(b)The cumulative downward carrying value changes/impairment between January 1, 2018 and December 31, 2019 were $(200) million.
Included in other assets above is the Firm’s interest in approximately 40 million Visa Class B shares, recorded at a nominal carrying
value. These shares are subject to certain transfer restrictions currently and will be convertible into Visa Class A shares upon final
resolution of certain litigation matters involving Visa. The conversion rate of Visa Class B shares into Visa Class A shares is 1.6228
at December 31, 2019, and may be adjusted by Visa depending on developments related to the litigation matters.
Additional disclosures about the fair value of financial
instruments that are not carried on the Consolidated
balance sheets at fair value
U.S. GAAP requires disclosure of the estimated fair value of
certain financial instruments, which are included in the
following table. However, this table does not include other
items, such as nonfinancial assets, intangible assets, certain
financial instruments, and customer relationships. In the
opinion of management, these items, in the aggregate, add
significant value to JPMorgan Chase, but their fair value is not
disclosed in this table. 
Financial instruments for which carrying value approximates
fair value
Certain financial instruments that are not carried at fair value
on the Consolidated balance sheets are carried at amounts that
approximate fair value, due to their short-term nature and
generally negligible credit risk. These instruments include cash
and due from banks, deposits with banks, federal funds sold,
securities purchased under resale agreements and securities
borrowed, short-term receivables and accrued interest
receivable, short-term borrowings, federal funds purchased,
securities loaned and sold under repurchase agreements,
accounts payable, and accrued liabilities. In addition, U.S.
GAAP requires that the fair value of deposit liabilities with no
stated maturity (i.e., demand, savings and certain money
market deposits) be equal to their carrying value; recognition
of the inherent funding value of these instruments is not
permitted.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 173
Notes to consolidated financial statements
The following table presents by fair value hierarchy classification the carrying values and estimated fair values at December 31,
2019 and 2018, of financial assets and liabilities, excluding financial instruments that are carried at fair value on a recurring basis,
and their classification within the fair value hierarchy.
 December 31, 2019  December 31, 2018
 Estimated fair value hierarchy    Estimated fair value hierarchy  
(in billions)Carrying
value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3Total
estimated
fair value Carrying
value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3Total
estimated
fair value
Financial assets        
Cash and due from banks $ 21.7$ 21.7$ —$ —$ 21.7 $ 22.3$ 22.3$ —$ —$ 22.3
Deposits with banks 241.9 241.9 — — 241.9 256.5 256.5 — — 256.5
Accrued interest and
accounts receivable 71.3 — 71.2 0.1 71.3 72.0 — 71.9 0.1 72.0
Federal funds sold and
securities purchased under
resale agreements 234.6 — 234.6 — 234.6 308.4 — 308.4 — 308.4
Securities borrowed 133.5 — 133.5 — 133.5 106.9 — 106.9 — 106.9
Investment securities, held-
to-maturity 47.5 0.1 48.8 — 48.9 31.4 — 31.5 — 31.5
Loans, net of allowance for
loan losses(a) 939.5 — 214.1 734.9 949.0 968.0 — 241.5 728.5 970.0
Other 61.3 — 60.6 0.8 61.4 60.5 — 59.6 1.0 60.6
Financial liabilities        
Deposits $1,533.8$ —$1,534.1$ —$1,534.1 $1,447.4$ —$1,447.5$ —$1,447.5
Federal funds purchased and
securities loaned or sold
under repurchase
agreements 183.1 — 183.1 — 183.1 181.4 — 181.4 — 181.4
Short-term borrowings 35.0 — 35.0 — 35.0 62.1 — 62.1 — 62.1
Accounts payable and other
liabilities 164.0 0.1 160.0 3.5 163.6 160.6 0.2 157.0 3.0 160.2
Beneficial interests issued by
consolidated VIEs 17.8 — 17.9 — 17.9 20.2 — 20.2 — 20.2
Long-term debt and junior
subordinated deferrable
interest debentures 215.5 — 218.3 3.5 221.8 227.1 — 224.6 3.3 227.9
(a)Fair value is typically estimated using a discounted cash flow model that incorporates the characteristics of the underlying loans (including principal, contractual
interest rate and contractual fees) and other key inputs, including expected lifetime credit losses, interest rates, prepayment rates, and primary origination or
secondary market spreads. For certain loans, the fair value is measured based on the value of the underlying collateral. The difference between the estimated fair
value and carrying value of a financial asset or liability is the result of the different methodologies used to determine fair value as compared with carrying value.
For example, credit losses are estimated for a financial asset’s remaining life in a fair value calculation but are estimated for a loss emergence period in the
allowance for loan losses calculation; future loan income (interest and fees) is incorporated in a fair value calculation but is generally not considered in the
allowance for loan losses.
The majority of the Firm’s lending-related commitments are not carried at fair value on a recurring basis on the Consolidated
balance sheets. The carrying value of the wholesale allowance for lending-related commitments and the estimated fair value of
these wholesale lending-related commitments were as follows for the periods indicated.
 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
 Estimated fair value hierarchy Estimated fair value hierarchy  
(in billions)Carrying
value(a) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3Total
estimated
fair valueCarrying
value(a) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3Total
estimated fair
value(b)
Wholesale lending-related
commitments $ 1.2$ —$ —$ 1.9$ 1.9 $ 1.0$ —$ —$ 2.2$ 2.2
(a)Excludes the current carrying values of the guarantee liability and the offsetting asset, each of which is recognized at fair value at the inception of the
guarantees.
(b)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
The Firm does not estimate the fair value of consumer lending-related commitments. In many cases, the Firm can reduce or cancel
these commitments by providing the borrower notice or, in some cases as permitted by law, without notice. Refer to page 156 of
this Note for a further discussion of the valuation of lending-related commitments.
174 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Note 3 – Fair value option
The fair value option provides an option to elect fair value as
an alternative measurement for selected financial assets,
financial liabilities, unrecognized firm commitments, and
written loan commitments.
The Firm has elected to measure certain instruments at fair
value for several reasons including to mitigate income
statement volatility caused by the differences between the
measurement basis of elected instruments (e.g., certain
instruments that otherwise would be accounted for on an
accrual basis) and the associated risk management
arrangements that are accounted for on a fair value basis, as
well as to better reflect those instruments that are managed on
a fair value basis. The Firm’s election of fair value includes the following
instruments:
•Loans purchased or originated as part of securitization
warehousing activity, subject to bifurcation accounting, or
managed on a fair value basis, including lending-related
commitments
•Certain securities financing agreements, such as those with
an embedded derivative and/or a maturity of greater than
one year
•Owned beneficial interests in securitized financial assets
that contain embedded credit derivatives, which would
otherwise be required to be separately accounted for as a
derivative instrument
•Structured notes, which are predominantly financial
instruments that contain embedded derivatives, that are
issued as part of client-driven activities
•Certain long-term beneficial interests issued by CIB’s
consolidated securitization trusts where the underlying
assets are carried at fair value
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 175
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Changes in fair value under the fair value option election
The following table presents the changes in fair value included in the Consolidated statements of income for the years ended
December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, for items for which the fair value option was elected. The profit and loss information presented
below only includes the financial instruments that were elected to be measured at fair value; related risk management instruments,
which are required to be measured at fair value, are not included in the table.
 2019 2018  2017
December 31, (in millions)Principal
transactionsAll other
incomeTotal
changes in
fair value
recorded(e)Principal
transactionsAll other
incomeTotal
changes in
fair value
recorded(e) Principal
transactionsAll other
incomeTotal
changes in
fair value
recorded(e)
Federal funds sold and securities
purchased under resale
agreements $ (36)$ — $ (36)$ (35)$— $ (35) $ (97)$— $ (97)
Securities borrowed 133 — 133 22 — 22 50 — 50
Trading assets:       
Debt and equity instruments,
excluding loans 2,482 (1)(c) 2,481 (1,680) 1(c) (1,679) 1,943 2(c) 1,945
Loans reported as trading
 assets:       
Changes in instrument-
specific credit risk 763 2(c) 765 414 1(c) 415 330 14(c) 344
Other changes in fair value 254 1,224(c) 1,478 160 185(c) 345 217 747(c) 964
Loans:       
Changes in instrument-specific
credit risk (26) — (26) (1) — (1) (1) — (1)
Other changes in fair value 1 — 1 (1) — (1) (12) 3(c) (9)
Other assets 5 6(d) 11 5 (45)(d) (40) 11 (55)(d) (44)
Deposits(a) (1,730) — (1,730) 181 — 181 (533) — (533)
Federal funds purchased and
securities loaned or sold under
repurchase agreements (8) — (8) 11 — 11 11 — 11
Short-term borrowings(a) (693) — (693) 862 — 862 (747) — (747)
Trading liabilities 6 — 6 1 — 1 (1) — (1)
Other liabilities (16) — (16) — — — — — —
Long-term debt(a)(b) (6,173) 1(c) (6,172) 2,695 — 2,695 (2,022) — (2,022)
(a)Unrealized gains/(losses) due to instrument-specific credit risk (DVA) for liabilities for which the fair value option has been elected is recorded in OCI, while
realized gains/(losses) are recorded in principal transactions revenue. Realized gains/(losses) due to instrument-specific credit risk recorded in principal
transactions revenue were not material for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017.
(b)Long-term debt measured at fair value predominantly relates to structured notes. Although the risk associated with the structured notes is actively managed, the
gains/(losses) reported in this table do not include the income statement impact of the risk management instruments used to manage such risk.
(c)Reported in mortgage fees and related income.
(d)Reported in other income.
(e)Changes in fair value exclude contractual interest, which is included in interest income and interest expense for all instruments other than hybrid financial
instruments. Refer to Note 7 for further information regarding interest income and interest expense.
Determination of instrument-specific credit risk for items
for which a fair value election was made
The following describes how the gains and losses that are
attributable to changes in instrument-specific credit risk, were
determined.
•Loans and lending-related commitments: For floating-rate
instruments, all changes in value are attributed to
instrument-specific credit risk. For fixed-rate instruments,
an allocation of the changes in value for the period is made
between those changes in value that are interest rate-related
and changes in value that are credit-related. Allocations are
generally based on an analysis of borrower-specific credit
spread and recovery information, where available, or
benchmarking to similar entities or industries. •Long-term debt: Changes in value attributable to
instrument-specific credit risk were derived principally
from observable changes in the Firm’s credit spread as
observed in the bond market.
•Securities financing agreements: Generally, for these types
of agreements, there is a requirement that collateral be
maintained with a market value equal to or in excess of the
principal amount loaned; as a result, there would be no
adjustment or an immaterial adjustment for instrument-
specific credit risk related to these agreements.
176 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Difference between aggregate fair value and aggregate remaining contractual principal balance outstanding
The following table reflects the difference between the aggregate fair value and the aggregate remaining contractual principal
balance outstanding as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, for loans, long-term debt and long-term beneficial interests for which the
fair value option has been elected.
 2019  2018
December 31, (in millions)Contractual
principal
outstanding Fair valueFair value
over/(under)
contractual
principal
outstanding Contractual
principal
outstanding Fair valueFair value
over/(under)
contractual
principal
outstanding
Loans(a)   
Nonaccrual loans   
Loans reported as trading assets $ 3,717 $ 1,111$ (2,606) $ 4,240 $ 1,350$ (2,890)
Loans 178 139 (39) 39 — (39)
Subtotal 3,895 1,250 (2,645) 4,279 1,350 (2,929)
All other performing loans   
Loans reported as trading assets 48,570 47,318 (1,252) 42,215 40,403 (1,812)
Loans 7,046 6,965 (81) 3,186 3,151 (35)
Total loans $ 59,511 $ 55,533$ (3,978) $ 49,680 $ 44,904$ (4,776)
Long-term debt   
Principal-protected debt $ 40,124(c) $ 39,246$ (878) $ 32,674(c) $ 28,718$ (3,956)
Nonprincipal-protected debt(b) NA 36,499 NA NA 26,168 NA
Total long-term debt NA $ 75,745 NA NA $ 54,886 NA
Long-term beneficial interests   
Nonprincipal-protected debt(b) NA $ 36 NA NA $ 28 NA
Total long-term beneficial interests NA $ 36 NA NA $ 28 NA
(a)There were no performing loans that were ninety days or more past due as of December 31, 2019 and 2018.
(b)Remaining contractual principal is not applicable to nonprincipal-protected structured notes and long-term beneficial interests. Unlike principal-protected
structured notes and long-term beneficial interests, for which the Firm is obligated to return a stated amount of principal at maturity, nonprincipal-protected
structured notes and long-term beneficial interests do not obligate the Firm to return a stated amount of principal at maturity, but for structured notes to return an
amount based on the performance of an underlying variable or derivative feature embedded in the note. However, investors are exposed to the credit risk of the
Firm as issuer for both nonprincipal-protected and principal-protected notes.
(c)Where the Firm issues principal-protected zero-coupon or discount notes, the balance reflects the contractual principal payment at maturity or, if applicable, the
contractual principal payment at the Firm’s next call date.
At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the contractual amount of lending-related commitments for which the fair value option was
elected was $4.6 billion and $6.9 billion, respectively, with a corresponding fair value of $(94) million and $(92) million,
respectively. Refer to Note 28 for further information regarding off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments.
Structured note products by balance sheet classification and risk component
The following table presents the fair value of structured notes, by balance sheet classification and the primary risk type.
 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
(in millions)Long-term
debtShort-term
borrowingsDeposits TotalLong-term
debtShort-term
borrowingsDeposits Total
Risk exposure    
Interest rate $35,470$ 34$16,692$52,196 $24,137$ 62$12,372$36,571
Credit 5,715 875 — 6,590 4,009 995 — 5,004
Foreign exchange 3,862 48 5 3,915 3,169 157 38 3,364
Equity 29,294 4,852 8,177 42,323 21,382 5,422 7,368 34,172
Commodity 472 32 1,454 1,958 372 34 1,207 1,613
Total structured notes $74,813$ 5,841$26,328$106,982 $53,069$ 6,670$20,985$80,724
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 177
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 4 – Credit risk concentrations
Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of clients,
counterparties or customers are engaged in similar business
activities or activities in the same geographic region, or when
they have similar economic features that would cause their
ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected
by changes in economic conditions.
JPMorgan Chase regularly monitors various segments of its
credit portfolios to assess potential credit risk concentrations
and to obtain additional collateral when deemed necessary and
permitted under the Firm’s agreements. Senior management is
significantly involved in the credit approval and review
process, and risk levels are adjusted as needed to reflect the
Firm’s risk appetite. In the Firm’s consumer portfolio, concentrations are managed
primarily by product and by U.S. geographic region, with a
key focus on trends and concentrations at the portfolio level,
where potential credit risk concentrations can be remedied
through changes in underwriting policies and portfolio
guidelines. Refer to Note 12 for additional information on the
geographic composition of the Firm’s consumer loan
portfolios. In the wholesale portfolio, credit risk concentrations
are evaluated primarily by industry and monitored regularly on
both an aggregate portfolio level and on an individual client or
counterparty basis.
The Firm’s wholesale exposure is managed through loan
syndications and participations, loan sales, securitizations,
credit derivatives, master netting agreements, collateral and
other risk-reduction techniques. Refer to Note 12 for additional
information on loans.
The Firm does not believe that its exposure to any particular
loan product or industry segment (e.g., real estate), or its
exposure to residential real estate loans with high LTV ratios,
results in a significant concentration of credit risk.
Terms of loan products and collateral coverage are included in
the Firm’s assessment when extending credit and establishing
its allowance for loan losses.
178 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
The table below presents both on–balance sheet and off–balance sheet consumer and wholesale-related credit exposure by the
Firm’s three credit portfolio segments as of December 31, 2019 and 2018.
 2019  2018
 
Credit
exposure (g)On-balance sheet
Off-balance
sheet (h) 
Credit
exposure (g)On-balance sheet
Off-balance
sheet (h) December 31, (in millions) Loans Derivatives  Loans Derivatives
Consumer , excluding credit card $386,452 $335,040 $ — $ 51,412  $419,798 $373,732 $ — $ 46,066
Receivables from customers — — — — 154 — — —
Total Consumer , excluding cr edit card 386,452 335,040 — 51,412  419,952 373,732 — 46,066
Credit card 819,644 168,924 — 650,720  762,01 1 156,632 — 605,379
Total consumer -related 1,206,096 503,964 — 702,132  1,181,963 530,364 — 651,445
Wholesale-r elated (a)     
Real Estate 149,267 116,244 619 32,404  143,316 115,737 164 27,415
Individuals and Individual Entities (b) 102,292 91,980 694 9,618  97,077 86,586 1,017 9,474
Consumer & Retail 99,331 30,879 1,424 67,028  94,815 36,921 1,093 56,801
Technology , Media & Telecommunications 59,021 14,680 2,766 41,575  72,646 16,980 2,667 52,999
Industrials 58,250 19,096 878 38,276  58,528 19,126 958 38,444
Asset Managers 51,775 23,939 7,160 20,676  42,807 16,806 9,033 16,968
Banks & Finance Cos 50,091 30,639 5,165 14,287  49,920 28,825 5,903 15,192
Healthcare 46,638 13,951 2,078 30,609  48,142 16,347 1,874 29,921
Oil & Gas 41,570 13,064 852 27,654  42,600 13,008 559 29,033
Utilities 34,753 5,085 2,573 27,095  28,172 5,591 1,740 20,841
State & Municipal Govt (c) 26,697 9,924 2,000 14,773  27,351 10,319 2,000 15,032
Automotive 17,317 5,408 368 11,541  17,339 5,170 399 11,770
Chemicals & Plastics 17,276 4,710 459 12,107  16,035 4,902 181 10,952
Metals & Mining 15,337 5,202 402 9,733  15,359 5,370 488 9,501
Central Govt 14,843 2,818 10,477 1,548  18,456 3,867 12,869 1,720
Transportation 13,917 4,804 715 8,398  15,660 6,391 1,102 8,167
Insurance 12,202 1,269 2,282 8,651  12,639 1,356 2,569 8,714
Securities Firms 7,335 752 4,507 2,076  4,558 645 2,029 1,884
Financial Markets Infrastructure 4,116 9 2,482 1,625  7,484 18 5,941 1,525
All other (d) 76,492 50,186 1,865 24,441  68,284 45,197 1,627 21,460
Subtotal 898,520 444,639 49,766 404,1 15 881,188 439,162 54,213 387,813
Loans held-for -sale and loans at fair value 11,166 11,166 — — 15,028 15,028 — —
Receivables from customers and other (e) 33,706 — — — 30,063 — — —
Total wholesale-r elated 943,392 455,805 49,766 404,1 15 926,279 454,190 54,213 387,813
Total exposur e(f)(g) $2,149,488 $959,769 $ 49,766 $1,106,247  $2,108,242 $984,554 $ 54,213 $1,039,258
(a)The industry rankings presented in the table as of December 31, 2018, are based on the industry rankings of the corresponding exposures at December 31, 2019,
not actual rankings of such exposures at December 31, 2018.
(b)Individuals and Individual Entities predominantly consists of Wealth Management clients within AWM and includes exposure to personal investment companies
and personal and testamentary trusts.
(c)In addition to the credit risk exposure to states and municipal governments (both U.S. and non-U.S.) at December 31, 2019 and 2018, noted above, the Firm
held: $6.5 billion and $7.8 billion, respectively, of trading assets; $29.8 billion and $37.7 billion, respectively, of AFS securities; and $4.8 billion at both periods
of held-to-maturity (“HTM”) securities, issued by U.S. state and municipal governments. Refer to Note 2 and Note 10 for further information.
(d)All other includes: SPEs and Private education and civic organizations, representing approximately 92% and 8%, respectively, at both December 31, 2019 and
2018. Refer to Note 14 for more information on exposures to SPEs.
(e)Receivables from customers primarily represent held-for-investment margin loans to brokerage clients in CIB and AWM that are collateralized by assets
maintained in the clients’ brokerage accounts (e.g., cash on deposit, liquid and readily marketable debt or equity securities), as such no allowance is held against
these receivables. To manage its credit risk the Firm establishes margin requirements and monitors the required margin levels on an ongoing basis, and requires
clients to deposit additional cash or other collateral, or to reduce positions, when appropriate. These receivables are reported within accrued interest and
accounts receivable on the Firm’s Consolidated balance sheets.
(f)Excludes cash placed with banks of $254.0 billion and $268.1 billion, at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, which is predominantly placed with various
central banks, primarily Federal Reserve Banks.
(g)Credit exposure is net of risk participations and excludes the benefit of credit derivatives used in credit portfolio management activities held against derivative
receivables or loans and liquid securities and other cash collateral held against derivative receivables.
(h)Represents lending-related financial instruments.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 179
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 5 – Derivative instruments
Derivative contracts derive their value from underlying asset
prices, indices, reference rates, other inputs or a combination
of these factors and may expose counterparties to risks and
rewards of an underlying asset or liability without having to
initially invest in, own or exchange the asset or liability.
JPMorgan Chase makes markets in derivatives for clients and
also uses derivatives to hedge or manage its own risk
exposures. Predominantly all of the Firm’s derivatives are
entered into for market-making or risk management purposes.
Market-making derivatives
The majority of the Firm’s derivatives are entered into for
market-making purposes. Clients use derivatives to mitigate or
modify interest rate, credit, foreign exchange, equity and
commodity risks. The Firm actively manages the risks from its
exposure to these derivatives by entering into other derivative
contracts or by purchasing or selling other financial
instruments that partially or fully offset the exposure from
client derivatives.
Risk management derivatives
The Firm manages certain market and credit risk exposures
using derivative instruments, including derivatives in hedge
accounting relationships and other derivatives that are used to
manage risks associated with specified assets and liabilities.
The Firm generally uses interest rate derivatives to manage the
risk associated with changes in interest rates. Fixed-rate assets
and liabilities appreciate or depreciate in market value as
interest rates change. Similarly, interest income and expense
increase or decrease as a result of variable-rate assets and
liabilities resetting to current market rates, and as a result of
the repayment and subsequent origination or issuance of fixed-
rate assets and liabilities at current market rates. Gains and
losses on the derivative instruments related to these assets and
liabilities are expected to substantially offset this variability.
Foreign currency derivatives are used to manage the foreign
exchange risk associated with certain foreign currency–
denominated (i.e., non-U.S. dollar) assets and liabilities and
forecasted transactions, as well as the Firm’s net investments
in certain non-U.S. subsidiaries or branches whose functional
currencies are not the U.S. dollar. As a result of fluctuations in
foreign currencies, the U.S. dollar–equivalent values of the
foreign currency–denominated assets and liabilities or the
forecasted revenues or expenses increase or decrease. Gains or
losses on the derivative instruments related to these foreign
currency–denominated assets or liabilities, or forecasted
transactions, are expected to substantially offset this
variability. Commodities derivatives are used to manage the price risk of
certain commodities inventories. Gains or losses on these
derivative instruments are expected to substantially offset the
depreciation or appreciation of the related inventory.
Credit derivatives are used to manage the counterparty credit
risk associated with loans and lending-related commitments.
Credit derivatives compensate the purchaser when the entity
referenced in the contract experiences a credit event, such as
bankruptcy or a failure to pay an obligation when due. Credit
derivatives primarily consist of CDS. Refer to the discussion in
the Credit derivatives section on pages 191–194 of this Note
for a further discussion of credit derivatives.
Refer to the risk management derivatives gains and losses table
on page 191 of this Note, and the hedge accounting gains and
losses tables on pages 188–191 of this Note for more
information about risk management derivatives.
Derivative counterparties and settlement types
The Firm enters into OTC derivatives, which are negotiated
and settled bilaterally with the derivative counterparty. The
Firm also enters into, as principal, certain ETD such as futures
and options, and OTC-cleared derivative contracts with CCPs.
ETD contracts are generally standardized contracts traded on
an exchange and cleared by the CCP, which is the Firm’s
counterparty from the inception of the transactions. OTC-
cleared derivatives are traded on a bilateral basis and then
novated to the CCP for clearing.
Derivative clearing services
The Firm provides clearing services for clients in which the
Firm acts as a clearing member at certain derivative exchanges
and clearing houses. The Firm does not reflect the clients’
derivative contracts in its Consolidated Financial Statements.
Refer to Note 28 for further information on the Firm’s clearing
services.
Accounting for derivatives
All free-standing derivatives that the Firm executes for its own
account are required to be recorded on the Consolidated
balance sheets at fair value.
As permitted under U.S. GAAP, the Firm nets derivative assets
and liabilities, and the related cash collateral receivables and
payables, when a legally enforceable master netting agreement
exists between the Firm and the derivative counterparty. Refer
to Note 1 for further discussion of the offsetting of assets and
liabilities. The accounting for changes in value of a derivative
depends on whether or not the transaction has been designated
and qualifies for hedge accounting. Derivatives that are not
designated as hedges are reported and measured at fair value
through earnings. The tabular disclosures on pages 184–191 of
this Note provide additional information on the amount of, and
reporting for, derivative assets, liabilities, gains and losses.
Refer to Notes 2 and 3 for further discussion of derivatives
embedded in structured notes.
180 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Derivatives designated as hedges
The Firm applies hedge accounting to certain derivatives
executed for risk management purposes – generally interest
rate, foreign exchange and commodity derivatives. However,
JPMorgan Chase does not seek to apply hedge accounting to
all of the derivatives involved in the Firm’s risk management
activities. For example, the Firm does not apply hedge
accounting to purchased CDS used to manage the credit risk of
loans and lending-related commitments, because of the
difficulties in qualifying such contracts as hedges. For the
same reason, the Firm does not apply hedge accounting to
certain interest rate, foreign exchange, and commodity
derivatives used for risk management purposes.
To qualify for hedge accounting, a derivative must be highly
effective at reducing the risk associated with the exposure
being hedged. In addition, for a derivative to be designated as a
hedge, the risk management objective and strategy must be
documented. Hedge documentation must identify the
derivative hedging instrument, the asset or liability or
forecasted transaction and type of risk to be hedged, and how
the effectiveness of the derivative is assessed prospectively
and retrospectively. To assess effectiveness, the Firm uses
statistical methods such as regression analysis, nonstatistical
methods such as dollar-value comparisons of the change in the
fair value of the derivative to the change in the fair value or
cash flows of the hedged item, and qualitative comparisons of
critical terms and the evaluation of any changes in those terms.
The extent to which a derivative has been, and is expected to
continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in the fair
value or cash flows of the hedged item must be assessed and
documented at least quarterly. If it is determined that a
derivative is not highly effective at hedging the designated
exposure, hedge accounting is discontinued. There are three types of hedge accounting designations: fair
value hedges, cash flow hedges and net investment hedges.
JPMorgan Chase uses fair value hedges primarily to hedge
fixed-rate long-term debt, AFS securities and certain
commodities inventories. For qualifying fair value hedges, the
changes in the fair value of the derivative, and in the value of
the hedged item for the risk being hedged, are recognized in
earnings. Certain amounts excluded from the assessment of
effectiveness are recorded in OCI and recognized in earnings
over the life of the derivative. If the hedge relationship is
terminated, then the adjustment to the hedged item continues
to be reported as part of the basis of the hedged item, and for
benchmark interest rate hedges, is amortized to earnings as a
yield adjustment. Derivative amounts affecting earnings are
recognized consistent with the classification of the hedged
item – primarily net interest income and principal transactions
revenue.
JPMorgan Chase uses cash flow hedges primarily to hedge the
exposure to variability in forecasted cash flows from floating-
rate assets and liabilities and foreign currency–denominated
revenue and expense. For qualifying cash flow hedges,
changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in OCI
and recognized in earnings as the hedged item affects earnings.
Derivative amounts affecting earnings are recognized
consistent with the classification of the hedged item –
primarily noninterest revenue, net interest income and
compensation expense. If the hedge relationship is terminated,
then the change in value of the derivative recorded in AOCI is
recognized in earnings when the cash flows that were hedged
affect earnings. For hedge relationships that are discontinued
because a forecasted transaction is not expected to occur
according to the original hedge forecast, any related derivative
values recorded in AOCI are immediately recognized in
earnings.
JPMorgan Chase uses net investment hedges to protect the
value of the Firm’s net investments in certain non-U.S.
subsidiaries or branches whose functional currencies are not
the U.S. dollar. For qualifying net investment hedges, changes
in the fair value of the derivatives due to changes in spot
foreign exchange rates are recorded in OCI as translation
adjustments. Amounts excluded from the assessment of
effectiveness are recorded directly in earnings.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 181
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•Notes to consolidated financial statements
The following table outlines the Firm’s primary uses of derivatives and the related hedge accounting designation or disclosure
category.
Type of Derivative Use of Derivative Designation and disclosureAffected segment
or unitPage
reference
Manage specifically identified risk exposures in qualifying hedge accounting relationships:   
Interest rate Hedge fixed rate assets and liabilities Fair value hedge Corporate 188
Interest rate Hedge floating-rate assets and liabilities Cash flow hedge Corporate 190
Foreign exchange Hedge foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities Fair value hedge Corporate 188
Foreign exchange Hedge foreign currency-denominated forecasted revenue and expense Cash flow hedge Corporate 190
Foreign exchange Hedge the value of the Firm’s investments in non-U.S. dollar functional
currency entitiesNet investment hedge Corporate 191
Commodity Hedge commodity inventory Fair value hedge CIB 188
Manage specifically identified risk exposures not designated in qualifying hedge accounting
relationships:   
Interest rate Manage the risk associated with mortgage commitments, warehouse
loans and MSRsSpecified risk management CCB 191
Credit Manage the credit risk associated with wholesale lending exposures Specified risk management CIB 191
Interest rate and
foreign exchangeManage the risk associated with certain other specified assets and
liabilitiesSpecified risk management Corporate 191
Market-making derivatives and other activities:   
Various Market-making and related risk management Market-making and other CIB 191
Various Other derivatives Market-making and other CIB, AWM,
Corporate191
182 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Notional amount of derivative contracts
The following table summarizes the notional amount of
derivative contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2019 and
2018.
 Notional amounts(b)
December 31, (in billions) 2019  2018
Interest rate contracts  
Swaps $ 21,228 $ 21,763
Futures and forwards 3,152 3,562
Written options 3,938 3,997
Purchased options 4,361 4,322
Total interest rate contracts 32,679 33,644
Credit derivatives(a) 1,242 1,501
Foreign exchange contracts   
Cross-currency swaps 3,604 3,548
Spot, futures and forwards 5,577 5,871
Written options 700 835
Purchased options 718 830
Total foreign exchange contracts 10,599 11,084
Equity contracts  
Swaps 406 346
Futures and forwards 142 101
Written options 646 528
Purchased options 611 490
Total equity contracts 1,805 1,465
Commodity contracts   
Swaps 147 134
Spot, futures and forwards 211 156
Written options 135 135
Purchased options 124 120
Total commodity contracts 617 545
Total derivative notional amounts $ 46,942 $ 48,239
(a)Refer to the Credit derivatives discussion on pages 191–194 for more
information on volumes and types of credit derivative contracts.
(b)Represents the sum of gross long and gross short third-party notional
derivative contracts.
While the notional amounts disclosed above give an indication
of the volume of the Firm’s derivatives activity, the notional
amounts significantly exceed, in the Firm’s view, the possible
losses that could arise from such transactions. For most
derivative contracts, the notional amount is not exchanged; it is
simply a reference amount used to calculate payments.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 183
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Impact of derivatives on the Consolidated balance sheets
The following table summarizes information on derivative receivables and payables (before and after netting adjustments) that are
reflected on the Firm’s Consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, by accounting designation (e.g., whether
the derivatives were designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships or not) and contract type.
Free-standing derivative receivables and payables(a)     
 Gross derivative receivables  Gross derivative payables
December 31, 2019
(in millions)Not
designated as
hedges Designated as
hedgesTotal
derivative
receivablesNet derivative
receivables(b)Not
designated as
hedges Designated as
hedgesTotal
derivative
payablesNet
derivative
payables(b)
Trading assets and
liabilities        
Interest rate $ 312,451 $ 843 $ 313,294 $ 27,421 $ 279,272 $ 1 $279,273 $ 8,603
Credit 14,876 — 14,876 701 15,121 — 15,121 1,652
Foreign exchange 138,179 308 138,487 9,005 144,125 983 145,108 13,158
Equity 45,727 — 45,727 6,477 52,741 — 52,741 12,537
Commodity 16,914 328 17,242 6,162 19,736 149 19,885 7,758
Total fair value of trading
assets and liabilities $ 528,147 $ 1,479 $ 529,626 $ 49,766 $ 510,995 $ 1,133 $512,128 $43,708
        
 Gross derivative receivables  Gross derivative payables
December 31, 2018
(in millions)Not
designated as
hedges Designated as
hedgesTotal
derivative
receivablesNet derivative
receivables(b)Not
designated as
hedges Designated as
hedgesTotal
derivative
payablesNet
derivative
payables(b)
Trading assets and
liabilities        
Interest rate $ 267,871 $ 833 $ 268,704 $ 23,214 $ 242,782 $ — $242,782 $ 7,784
Credit 20,095 — 20,095 612 20,276 — 20,276 1,667
Foreign exchange 167,057 628 167,685 13,450 164,392 825 165,217 12,785
Equity 49,285 — 49,285 9,946 51,195 — 51,195 10,161
Commodity 20,223 247 20,470 6,991 22,297 121 22,418 9,372
Total fair value of trading
assets and liabilities $ 524,531 $ 1,708 $ 526,239 $ 54,213 $ 500,942 $ 946 $501,888 $41,769
(a)Balances exclude structured notes for which the fair value option has been elected. Refer to Note 3 for further information.
(b)As permitted under U.S. GAAP, the Firm has elected to net derivative receivables and derivative payables and the related cash collateral receivables and
payables when a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists.
184 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Derivatives netting
The following tables present, as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, gross and net derivative receivables and payables by contract and
settlement type. Derivative receivables and payables, as well as the related cash collateral from the same counterparty, have been
netted on the Consolidated balance sheets where the Firm has obtained an appropriate legal opinion with respect to the master
netting agreement. Where such a legal opinion has not been either sought or obtained, amounts are not eligible for netting on the
Consolidated balance sheets, and those derivative receivables and payables are shown separately in the tables below.
In addition to the cash collateral received and transferred that is presented on a net basis with derivative receivables and payables,
the Firm receives and transfers additional collateral (financial instruments and cash). These amounts mitigate counterparty credit
risk associated with the Firm’s derivative instruments, but are not eligible for net presentation:
•collateral that consists of non-cash financial instruments (generally U.S. government and agency securities and other G7
government securities) and cash collateral held at third-party custodians, which are shown separately as “Collateral not nettable
on the Consolidated balance sheets” in the tables below, up to the fair value exposure amount;
•the amount of collateral held or transferred that exceeds the fair value exposure at the individual counterparty level, as of the date
presented, which is excluded from the tables below; and
•collateral held or transferred that relates to derivative receivables or payables where an appropriate legal opinion has not been
either sought or obtained with respect to the master netting agreement, which is excluded from the tables below.
 2019 2018
December 31, (in millions)Gross
derivative
receivablesAmounts netted
on the
Consolidated
balance sheetsNet
derivative
receivablesGross
derivative
receivables Amounts netted
on the
Consolidated
balance sheetsNet
derivative
receivables
U.S. GAAP nettable derivative receivables       
Interest rate contracts:       
OTC $ 299,205$(276,255) $ 22,950 $ 258,227 $(239,498) $18,729
OTC–cleared 9,442 (9,360) 82 6,404 (5,856) 548
Exchange-traded(a) 347 (258) 89 322 (136) 186
Total interest rate contracts 308,994 (285,873) 23,121 264,953 (245,490) 19,463
Credit contracts:       
OTC 10,743 (10,317) 426 12,648 (12,261) 387
OTC–cleared 3,864 (3,858) 6 7,267 (7,222) 45
Total credit contracts 14,607 (14,175) 432 19,915 (19,483) 432
Foreign exchange contracts:       
OTC 136,252 (129,324) 6,928 163,862 (153,988) 9,874
OTC–cleared 185 (152) 33 235 (226) 9
Exchange-traded(a) 10 (6) 4 32 (21) 11
Total foreign exchange contracts 136,447 (129,482) 6,965 164,129 (154,235) 9,894
Equity contracts:       
OTC 23,106 (20,820) 2,286 26,178 (23,879) 2,299
Exchange-traded(a) 19,654 (18,430) 1,224 18,876 (15,460) 3,416
Total equity contracts 42,760 (39,250) 3,510 45,054 (39,339) 5,715
Commodity contracts:       
OTC 7,093 (5,149) 1,944 7,448 (5,261) 2,187
OTC–cleared 28 (28) — — — —
Exchange-traded(a) 6,154 (5,903) 251 8,815 (8,218) 597
Total commodity contracts 13,275 (11,080) 2,195 16,263 (13,479) 2,784
Derivative receivables with appropriate legal
opinion 516,083 (479,860) 36,223(d) 510,314 (472,026) 38,288(d) 
Derivative receivables where an appropriate legal
opinion has not been either sought or obtained 13,543  13,543 15,925   15,925
Total derivative receivables recognized on the
Consolidated balance sheets $ 529,626  $ 49,766 $ 526,239   $54,213
Collateral not nettable on the Consolidated
balance sheets(b)(c)  (14,226)    (13,046)
Net amounts  $ 35,540    $41,167
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 185
Notes to consolidated financial statements
 2019 2018
December 31, (in millions)Gross
derivative
payablesAmounts netted
on the
Consolidated
balance sheetsNet
derivative
payablesGross
derivative
payablesAmounts netted
on the
Consolidated
balance sheetsNet
derivative
payables
U.S. GAAP nettable derivative payables    
Interest rate contracts:    
OTC $ 267,311$(260,229) $ 7,082 $ 233,404 $(228,369) $5,035
OTC–cleared 10,217 (10,138) 79 7,163 (6,494) 669
Exchange-traded(a) 365 (303) 62 210 (135) 75
Total interest rate contracts 277,893 (270,670) 7,223 240,777 (234,998) 5,779
Credit contracts:    
OTC 11,570 (10,080) 1,490 13,412 (11,895) 1,517
OTC–cleared 3,390 (3,389) 1 6,716 (6,714) 2
Total credit contracts 14,960 (13,469) 1,491 20,128 (18,609) 1,519
Foreign exchange contracts:    
OTC 142,360 (131,792) 10,568 160,930 (152,161) 8,769
OTC–cleared 186 (152) 34 274 (268) 6
Exchange-traded(a) 12 (6) 6 16 (3) 13
Total foreign exchange contracts 142,558 (131,950) 10,608 161,220 (152,432) 8,788
Equity contracts:    
OTC 27,594 (21,778) 5,816 29,437 (25,544) 3,893
Exchange-traded(a) 20,216 (18,426) 1,790 16,285 (15,490) 795
Total equity contracts 47,810 (40,204) 7,606 45,722 (41,034) 4,688
Commodity contracts:    
OTC 8,714 (6,235) 2,479 8,930 (4,838) 4,092
OTC–cleared 30 (30) — — — —
Exchange-traded(a) 6,012 (5,862) 150 8,259 (8,208) 51
Total commodity contracts 14,756 (12,127) 2,629 17,189 (13,046) 4,143
Derivative payables with appropriate legal opinion 497,977 (468,420) 29,557(d) 485,036 (460,119) 24,917(d) 
Derivative payables where an appropriate legal
opinion has not been either sought or obtained 14,151 14,151 16,852  16,852
Total derivative payables recognized on the
Consolidated balance sheets $ 512,128 $ 43,708 $ 501,888  $41,769
Collateral not nettable on the Consolidated balance
sheets(b)(c)  (7,896)  (4,449)
Net amounts  $ 35,812  $37,320
(a)Exchange-traded derivative balances that relate to futures contracts are settled daily.
(b)Represents liquid security collateral as well as cash collateral held at third-party custodians related to derivative instruments where an appropriate legal opinion
has been obtained. For some counterparties, the collateral amounts of financial instruments may exceed the derivative receivables and derivative payables
balances. Where this is the case, the total amount reported is limited to the net derivative receivables and net derivative payables balances with that counterparty.
(c)Derivative collateral relates only to OTC and OTC-cleared derivative instruments.
(d)Net derivatives receivable included cash collateral netted of $65.9 billion and $55.2 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Net derivatives
payable included cash collateral netted of $54.4 billion and $43.3 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Derivative cash collateral relates to OTC
and OTC-cleared derivative instruments.
186 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Liquidity risk and credit-related contingent features
In addition to the specific market risks introduced by each derivative contract type, derivatives expose JPMorgan Chase to credit
risk — the risk that derivative counterparties may fail to meet their payment obligations under the derivative contracts and the
collateral, if any, held by the Firm proves to be of insufficient value to cover the payment obligation. It is the policy of JPMorgan
Chase to actively pursue, where possible, the use of legally enforceable master netting arrangements and collateral agreements to
mitigate derivative counterparty credit risk inherent in derivative receivables.
While derivative receivables expose the Firm to credit risk, derivative payables expose the Firm to liquidity risk, as the derivative
contracts typically require the Firm to post cash or securities collateral with counterparties as the fair value of the contracts moves
in the counterparties’ favor or upon specified downgrades in the Firm’s and its subsidiaries’ respective credit ratings. Certain
derivative contracts also provide for termination of the contract, generally upon a downgrade of either the Firm or the counterparty,
at the fair value of the derivative contracts. The following table shows the aggregate fair value of net derivative payables related to
OTC and OTC-cleared derivatives that contain contingent collateral or termination features that may be triggered upon a ratings
downgrade, and the associated collateral the Firm has posted in the normal course of business, at December 31, 2019 and 2018.
OTC and OTC-cleared derivative payables containing downgrade triggers
December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018
Aggregate fair value of net derivative payables $ 14,819 $ 9,396
Collateral posted 13,329 8,907
The following table shows the impact of a single-notch and two-notch downgrade of the long-term issuer ratings of JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries, predominantly JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., at December 31, 2019 and 2018, related to OTC and
OTC-cleared derivative contracts with contingent collateral or termination features that may be triggered upon a ratings downgrade.
Derivatives contracts generally require additional collateral to be posted or terminations to be triggered when the predefined
threshold rating is breached. A downgrade by a single rating agency that does not result in a rating lower than a preexisting
corresponding rating provided by another major rating agency will generally not result in additional collateral (except in certain
instances in which additional initial margin may be required upon a ratings downgrade), nor in termination payments requirements.
The liquidity impact in the table is calculated based upon a downgrade below the lowest current rating of the rating agencies
referred to in the derivative contract.
Liquidity impact of downgrade triggers on OTC and OTC-cleared derivatives
 2019  2018
December 31, (in millions)Single-notch
downgradeTwo-notch
downgrade Single-notch
downgradeTwo-notch
downgrade
Amount of additional collateral to be posted upon downgrade(a)
$ 189$ 1,467 $ 76$ 947
Amount required to settle contracts with termination triggers upon downgrade(b)
104 1,398 172 764
(a)Includes the additional collateral to be posted for initial margin.
(b)Amounts represent fair values of derivative payables, and do not reflect collateral posted.
Derivatives executed in contemplation of a sale of the underlying financial asset
In certain instances the Firm enters into transactions in which it transfers financial assets but maintains the economic exposure to
the transferred assets by entering into a derivative with the same counterparty in contemplation of the initial transfer. The Firm
generally accounts for such transfers as collateralized financing transactions as described in Note 11, but in limited circumstances
they may qualify to be accounted for as a sale and a derivative under U.S. GAAP. The amount of such transfers accounted for as a
sale where the associated derivative was outstanding was not material at both December 31, 2019 and 2018.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 187
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Impact of derivatives on the Consolidated statements of income
The following tables provide information related to gains and losses recorded on derivatives based on their hedge accounting
designation or purpose.
Fair value hedge gains and losses
The following tables present derivative instruments, by contract type, used in fair value hedge accounting relationships, as well as
pre-tax gains/(losses) recorded on such derivatives and the related hedged items for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and
2017, respectively. The Firm includes gains/(losses) on the hedging derivative in the same line item in the Consolidated statements
of income as the related hedged item.
 Gains/(losses) recorded in income  Income statement impact of
excluded components(f) OCI impact
Year ended December 31, 2019
(in millions) Derivatives Hedged itemsIncome
statement impact Amortization
approachChanges in fair
valueDerivatives -
Gains/(losses)
recorded in OCI(g)
Contract type      
Interest rate(a)(b) $ 3,204$ (2,373)$ 831 $ — $ 828 $ —
Foreign exchange(c) 154 328 482 (866) 482 39
Commodity(d) (77) 148 71 — 63 —
Total $ 3,281$ (1,897)$ 1,384 $ (866)$ 1,373 $ 39
      
 Gains/(losses) recorded in income  Income statement impact of excluded
components(f)  OCI impact
Year ended December 31, 2018
(in millions) Derivatives Hedged itemsIncome
statement impact Amortization
approachChanges in fair
value  Derivatives -
Gains/(losses)
recorded in OCI(g)
Contract type      
Interest rate(a)(b) $ (1,145)$ 1,782$ 637 $ — $ 623 $ —
Foreign exchange(c) 1,092 (616) 476 (566) 476 (140)
Commodity(d) 789 (754) 35 — 26 —
Total $ 736$ 412$ 1,148 $ (566)$ 1,125 $ (140)
      
 Gains/(losses) recorded in income  Income statement impact due to:  
Year ended December 31, 2017
(in millions) Derivatives Hedged itemsIncome
statement impact Hedge
ineffectiveness(e)Excluded
components(f)  
Contract type      
Interest rate(a)(b) $ (481)$ 1,359$ 878 $ (18)$ 896  
Foreign exchange(c) (3,509) 3,507 (2) — (2)  
Commodity(d) (1,275) 1,348 73 29 44  
Total $ (5,265)$ 6,214$ 949 $ 11$ 938  
(a)Primarily consists of hedges of the benchmark (e.g., London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”)) interest rate risk of fixed-rate long-term debt and AFS
securities. Gains and losses were recorded in net interest income.
(b)Excludes the amortization expense associated with the inception hedge accounting adjustment applied to the hedged item. This expense is recorded in net
interest income and substantially offsets the income statement impact of the excluded components. Also excludes the accrual of interest on interest rate swaps
and the related hedged items.
(c)Primarily consists of hedges of the foreign currency risk of long-term debt and AFS securities for changes in spot foreign currency rates. Gains and losses
related to the derivatives and the hedged items due to changes in foreign currency rates and the income statement impact of excluded components were recorded
primarily in principal transactions revenue and net interest income.
(d)Consists of overall fair value hedges of physical commodities inventories that are generally carried at the lower of cost or net realizable value (net realizable
value approximates fair value). Gains and losses were recorded in principal transactions revenue.
(e)Hedge ineffectiveness is the amount by which the gain or loss on the designated derivative instrument does not exactly offset the gain or loss on the hedged item
attributable to the hedged risk.
(f)The assessment of hedge effectiveness excludes certain components of the changes in fair values of the derivatives and hedged items such as forward points on
foreign exchange forward contracts, time values and cross-currency basis spreads. Excluded components may impact earnings either through amortization of the
initial amount over the life of the derivative or through fair value changes recognized in the current period.
(g)Represents the change in value of amounts excluded from the assessment of effectiveness under the amortization approach, predominantly cross-currency basis
spreads. The amount excluded at inception of the hedge is recognized in earnings over the life of the derivative.
188 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
As of December 31, 2019, the following amounts were recorded on the Consolidated balance sheets related to certain cumulative
fair value hedge basis adjustments that are expected to reverse through the income statement in future periods as an adjustment to
yield.
 
Carrying amount of
the hedged items(a)
(b)Cumulative amount of fair value hedging adjustments included
in the carrying amount of hedged items:
December 31, 2019
(in millions)Active hedging
relationshipsDiscontinued
hedging
relationships(d) Total
Assets    
Investment securities - AFS $ 125,860(c) $ 2,110$ 278$ 2,388
Liabilities    
Long-term debt $ 157,545 $ 6,719$ 161$ 6,880
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs 2,365 — (8) (8)
    
 
Carrying amount of
the hedged items(a)
(b)Cumulative amount of fair value hedging adjustments included
in the carrying amount of hedged items:
December 31, 2018
(in millions)Active hedging
relationshipsDiscontinued
hedging
relationships(d) Total
Assets    
Investment securities - AFS $ 55,313(c) $ (1,105)$ 381$ (724)
Liabilities    
Long-term debt $ 139,915 $ 141$ 8$ 149
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs 6,987 — (33) (33)
(a)Excludes physical commodities with a carrying value of $6.5 billion and $6.8 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, to which the Firm applies
fair value hedge accounting. As a result of the application of hedge accounting, these inventories are carried at fair value, thus recognizing unrealized gains and
losses in current periods. Since the Firm exits these positions at fair value, there is no incremental impact to net income in future periods.
(b)Excludes hedged items where only foreign currency risk is the designated hedged risk, as basis adjustments related to foreign currency hedges will not reverse
through the income statement in future periods. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the carrying amount excluded for available-for-sale securities is $14.9 billion
and $14.6 billion, respectively, and for long-term debt is $2.8 billion and $7.3 billion, respectively.
(c)Carrying amount represents the amortized cost.
(d)Represents hedged items no longer designated in qualifying fair value hedging relationships for which an associated basis adjustment exists at the balance sheet
date.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 189
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Cash flow hedge gains and losses
The following tables present derivative instruments, by contract type, used in cash flow hedge accounting relationships, and the
pre-tax gains/(losses) recorded on such derivatives, for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The Firm
includes the gain/(loss) on the hedging derivative in the same line item in the Consolidated statements of income as the change in
cash flows on the related hedged item.
 Derivatives gains/(losses) recorded in income and other
comprehensive income/(loss)
Year ended December 31, 2019
(in millions)Amounts reclassified
from AOCI to incomeAmounts recorded in
OCITotal change
in OCI
for period
Contract type  
Interest rate(a) $ (28)$ (3)$ 25
Foreign exchange(b) (75) 125 200
Total $ (103)$ 122$ 225
 Derivatives gains/(losses) recorded in income and other
comprehensive income/(loss)
Year ended December 31, 2018
(in millions)Amounts reclassified
from AOCI to incomeAmounts recorded in
OCITotal change
in OCI
for period
Contract type    
Interest rate(a) $ 44$ (44)$ (88)
Foreign exchange(b) (26) (201) (175)
Total $ 18$ (245)$ (263)
    
 Derivatives gains/(losses) recorded in income and other
comprehensive income/(loss)
Year ended December 31, 2017
(in millions)Amounts reclassified
from AOCI to incomeAmounts recorded in
OCI(c)Total change
in OCI
for period
Contract type    
Interest rate(a) $ (17)$ 12$ 29
Foreign exchange(b) (117) 135 252
Total $ (134)$ 147$ 281
(a)Primarily consists of hedges of LIBOR-indexed floating-rate assets and floating-rate liabilities. Gains and losses were recorded in net interest income.
(b)Primarily consists of hedges of the foreign currency risk of non-U.S. dollar-denominated revenue and expense. The income statement classification of gains and
losses follows the hedged item – primarily noninterest revenue and compensation expense.
(c)Represents the effective portion of changes in value of the related hedging derivative. Hedge ineffectiveness is the amount by which the cumulative gain or loss
on the designated derivative instrument exceeds the present value of the cumulative expected change in cash flows on the hedged item attributable to the hedged
risk. The Firm did not recognize any ineffectiveness on cash flow hedges during 2017.
The Firm did not experience any forecasted transactions that failed to occur for the years ended 2019, 2018 and 2017.
Over the next 12 months, the Firm expects that approximately $(8) million (after-tax) of net losses recorded in AOCI at
December 31, 2019, related to cash flow hedges will be recognized in income. For cash flow hedges that have been terminated, the
maximum length of time over which the derivative results recorded in AOCI will be recognized in earnings is approximately five
years, corresponding to the timing of the originally hedged forecasted cash flows. For open cash flow hedges, the maximum length
of time over which forecasted transactions are hedged is approximately seven years. The Firm’s longer-dated forecasted
transactions relate to core lending and borrowing activities.
190 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Net investment hedge gains and losses
The following table presents hedging instruments, by contract type, that were used in net investment hedge accounting
relationships, and the pre-tax gains/(losses) recorded on such instruments for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017.
 2019 2018 2017
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)Amounts
recorded in
income(a)(b)Amounts
recorded in
OCIAmounts
recorded in
income(a)(b)Amounts
recorded in
OCIAmounts
recorded in
income(a)(b)Amounts
recorded in
OCI(c)
Foreign exchange derivatives $72 $64 $11 $1,219 $(152) $(1,244)
(a)Certain components of hedging derivatives are permitted to be excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness, such as forward points on foreign exchange
forward contracts. The Firm elects to record changes in fair value of these amounts directly in other income.
(b)Excludes amounts reclassified from AOCI to income on the sale or liquidation of hedged entities. The Firm reclassified net pre-tax gains/(losses) of $18 million
to other income, $(17) million and $50 million to other expense related to the liquidation of certain legal entities during the years ended December 31, 2019,
2018 and 2017, respectively. Refer to Note 24 for further information.
(c)Represents the effective portion of changes in value of the related hedging derivative. The Firm did not recognize any ineffectiveness on net investment hedges
directly in income during 2017.
Gains and losses on derivatives used for specified risk
management purposes
The following table presents pre-tax gains/(losses) recorded on
a limited number of derivatives, not designated in hedge
accounting relationships, that are used to manage risks
associated with certain specified assets and liabilities,
including certain risks arising from mortgage commitments,
warehouse loans, MSRs, wholesale lending exposures, and
foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities.
 Derivatives gains/(losses)
recorded in income
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Contract type    
Interest rate(a) $ 1,491 $ 79 $ 331
Credit(b) (30) (21) (74)
Foreign exchange(c) (5) 117 (107)
Total $ 1,456 $ 175 $ 150
(a)Primarily represents interest rate derivatives used to hedge the interest rate
risk inherent in mortgage commitments, warehouse loans and MSRs, as
well as written commitments to originate warehouse loans. Gains and
losses were recorded predominantly in mortgage fees and related income.
(b)Relates to credit derivatives used to mitigate credit risk associated with
lending exposures in the Firm’s wholesale businesses. These derivatives
do not include credit derivatives used to mitigate counterparty credit risk
arising from derivative receivables, which is included in gains and losses
on derivatives related to market-making activities and other derivatives.
Gains and losses were recorded in principal transactions revenue.
(c)Primarily relates to derivatives used to mitigate foreign exchange risk of
specified foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. Gains and
losses were recorded in principal transactions revenue. Gains and losses on derivatives related to market-making
activities and other derivatives
The Firm makes markets in derivatives in order to meet the
needs of customers and uses derivatives to manage certain
risks associated with net open risk positions from its market-
making activities, including the counterparty credit risk arising
from derivative receivables. All derivatives not included in the
hedge accounting or specified risk management categories
above are included in this category. Gains and losses on these
derivatives are primarily recorded in principal transactions
revenue. Refer to Note 6 for information on principal
transactions revenue.
Credit derivatives
Credit derivatives are financial instruments whose value is
derived from the credit risk associated with the debt of a third-
party issuer (the reference entity) and which allow one party
(the protection purchaser) to transfer that risk to another party
(the protection seller). Credit derivatives expose the protection
purchaser to the creditworthiness of the protection seller, as the
protection seller is required to make payments under the
contract when the reference entity experiences a credit event,
such as a bankruptcy, a failure to pay its obligation or a
restructuring. The seller of credit protection receives a
premium for providing protection but has the risk that the
underlying instrument referenced in the contract will be
subject to a credit event.
The Firm is both a purchaser and seller of protection in the
credit derivatives market and uses these derivatives for two
primary purposes. First, in its capacity as a market-maker, the
Firm actively manages a portfolio of credit derivatives by
purchasing and selling credit protection, predominantly on
corporate debt obligations, to meet the needs of customers.
Second, as an end-user, the Firm uses credit derivatives to
manage credit risk associated with lending exposures (loans
and unfunded commitments) and derivatives counterparty
exposures in the Firm’s wholesale businesses, and to manage
the credit risk arising from certain financial instruments in the
Firm’s market-making businesses. Following is a summary of
various types of credit derivatives.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 191
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Credit default swaps
Credit derivatives may reference the credit of either a single
reference entity (“single-name”) or a broad-based index. The
Firm purchases and sells protection on both single- name and
index-reference obligations. Single-name CDS and index CDS
contracts are either OTC or OTC-cleared derivative contracts.
Single-name CDS are used to manage the default risk of a
single reference entity, while index CDS contracts are used to
manage the credit risk associated with the broader credit
markets or credit market segments. Like the S&P 500 and
other market indices, a CDS index consists of a portfolio of
CDS across many reference entities. New series of CDS
indices are periodically established with a new underlying
portfolio of reference entities to reflect changes in the credit
markets. If one of the reference entities in the index
experiences a credit event, then the reference entity that
defaulted is removed from the index. CDS can also be
referenced against specific portfolios of reference names or
against customized exposure levels based on specific client
demands: for example, to provide protection against the first
$1 million of realized credit losses in a $10 million portfolio of
exposure. Such structures are commonly known as tranche
CDS.
For both single-name CDS contracts and index CDS contracts,
upon the occurrence of a credit event, under the terms of a
CDS contract neither party to the CDS contract has recourse to
the reference entity. The protection purchaser has recourse to
the protection seller for the difference between the face value
of the CDS contract and the fair value of the reference
obligation at settlement of the credit derivative contract, also
known as the recovery value. The protection purchaser does
not need to hold the debt instrument of the underlying
reference entity in order to receive amounts due under the CDS
contract when a credit event occurs. Credit-related notes
A credit-related note is a funded credit derivative where the
issuer of the credit-related note purchases from the note
investor credit protection on a reference entity or an index.
Under the contract, the investor pays the issuer the par value of
the note at the inception of the transaction, and in return, the
issuer pays periodic payments to the investor, based on the
credit risk of the referenced entity. The issuer also repays the
investor the par value of the note at maturity unless the
reference entity (or one of the entities that makes up a
reference index) experiences a specified credit event. If a
credit event occurs, the issuer is not obligated to repay the par
value of the note, but rather, the issuer pays the investor the
difference between the par value of the note and the fair value
of the defaulted reference obligation at the time of settlement.
Neither party to the credit-related note has recourse to the
defaulting reference entity.
The following tables present a summary of the notional
amounts of credit derivatives and credit-related notes the Firm
sold and purchased as of December 31, 2019 and 2018. Upon a
credit event, the Firm as a seller of protection would typically
pay out only a percentage of the full notional amount of net
protection sold, as the amount actually required to be paid on
the contracts takes into account the recovery value of the
reference obligation at the time of settlement. The Firm
manages the credit risk on contracts to sell protection by
purchasing protection with identical or similar underlying
reference entities. Other purchased protection referenced in the
following tables includes credit derivatives bought on related,
but not identical, reference positions (including indices,
portfolio coverage and other reference points) as well as
protection purchased through credit-related notes.
192 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
The Firm does not use notional amounts of credit derivatives as the primary measure of risk management for such derivatives,
because the notional amount does not take into account the probability of the occurrence of a credit event, the recovery value of the
reference obligation, or related cash instruments and economic hedges, each of which reduces, in the Firm’s view, the risks
associated with such derivatives.
Total credit derivatives and credit-related notes
 
 Maximum payout/Notional amount
 
Protection soldProtection purchased
with identical
underlyings(b)Net protection
(sold)/purchased(c)Other
protection
purchased(d) December 31, 2019 (in millions)
Credit derivatives  
Credit default swaps $ (562,338) $ 571,892 $ 9,554$ 3,936
Other credit derivatives(a) (44,929) 52,007 7,078 7,364
Total credit derivatives (607,267) 623,899 16,632 11,300
Credit-related notes — — — 9,606
Total $ (607,267) $ 623,899 $ 16,632$ 20,906
  
 Maximum payout/Notional amount
 
Protection soldProtection purchased
with identical
underlyings(b)Net protection
(sold)/purchased(c)Other
protection
purchased(d) December 31, 2018 (in millions)
Credit derivatives  
Credit default swaps $ (697,220) $ 707,282 $ 10,062$ 4,053
Other credit derivatives(a) (41,244) 42,484 1,240 8,488
Total credit derivatives (738,464) 749,766 11,302 12,541
Credit-related notes — — — 8,425
Total $ (738,464) $ 749,766 $ 11,302$ 20,966
(a)Other credit derivatives predominantly consist of credit swap options and total return swaps.
(b)Represents the total notional amount of protection purchased where the underlying reference instrument is identical to the reference instrument on protection
sold; the notional amount of protection purchased for each individual identical underlying reference instrument may be greater or lower than the notional
amount of protection sold.
(c)Does not take into account the fair value of the reference obligation at the time of settlement, which would generally reduce the amount the seller of protection
pays to the buyer of protection in determining settlement value.
(d)Represents protection purchased by the Firm on referenced instruments (single-name, portfolio or index) where the Firm has not sold any protection on the
identical reference instrument.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 193
Notes to consolidated financial statements
The following tables summarize the notional amounts by the ratings, maturity profile, and total fair value, of credit derivatives and
credit-related notes as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, where JPMorgan Chase is the seller of protection. The maturity profile is
based on the remaining contractual maturity of the credit derivative contracts. The ratings profile is based on the rating of the
reference entity on which the credit derivative contract is based. The ratings and maturity profile of credit derivatives and credit-
related notes where JPMorgan Chase is the purchaser of protection are comparable to the profile reflected below.
Protection sold – credit derivatives and credit-related notes ratings(a)/maturity profile   
December 31, 2019
(in millions) <1 year 1–5 years >5 yearsTotal notional
amountFair value of
receivables(b) Fair value of
payables(b)Net fair
value
Risk rating of reference entity       
Investment-grade $(114,460) $ (311,407) $ (42,129) $ (467,996) $ 6,153 $ (911) $5,242
Noninvestment-grade (41,661) (87,769) (9,841) (139,271) 4,281 (2,882) 1,399
Total $(156,121) $ (399,176) $ (51,970) $ (607,267) $ 10,434 $ (3,793) $6,641
December 31, 2018
(in millions) <1 year 1–5 years >5 yearsTotal notional
amountFair value of
receivables(b) Fair value of
payables(b)Net fair
value
Risk rating of reference entity         
Investment-grade $(115,443) $ (402,325) $ (43,611) $ (561,379) $ 5,720 $ (2,791) $2,929
Noninvestment-grade (45,897) (119,348) (11,840) (177,085) 4,719 (5,660) (941)
Total $(161,340) $ (521,673) $ (55,451) $ (738,464) $ 10,439 $ (8,451) $1,988
(a)The ratings scale is primarily based on external credit ratings defined by S&P and Moody’s.
(b)Amounts are shown on a gross basis, before the benefit of legally enforceable master netting agreements and cash collateral received by the Firm.
194 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Note 6 – Noninter est revenue and noninter est expense
Noninterest revenue
The Firm records noninterest revenue from certain contracts
with customers in investment banking fees, deposit-related
fees, asset management, administration, and commissions, and
components of card income. The related contracts are often
terminable on demand and the Firm has no remaining
obligation to deliver future services. For arrangements with a
fixed term, the Firm may commit to deliver services in the
future. Revenue associated with these remaining performance
obligations typically depends on the occurrence of future
events or underlying asset values, and is not recognized until
the outcome of those events or values are known.
Investment banking fees
This revenue category includes debt and equity underwriting
and advisory fees. As an underwriter, the Firm helps clients
raise capital via public offering and private placement of
various types of debt and equity instruments. Underwriting
fees are primarily based on the issuance price and quantity of
the underlying instruments, and are recognized as revenue
typically upon execution of the client’s transaction. The Firm
also manages and syndicates loan arrangements. Credit
arrangement and syndication fees, included within debt
underwriting fees, are recorded as revenue after satisfying
certain retention, timing and yield criteria.
The Firm also provides advisory services, by assisting its
clients with mergers and acquisitions, divestitures,
restructuring and other complex transactions. Advisory fees are
recognized as revenue typically upon execution of the client’s
transaction.
The following table presents the components of investment
banking fees.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Underwriting    
Equity $ 1,648 $ 1,684 $ 1,466
Debt 3,513 3,347 3,802
Total underwriting 5,161 5,031 5,268
Advisory 2,340 2,519 2,144
Total investment banking fees $ 7,501 $ 7,550 $ 7,412
Investment banking fees are earned primarily by CIB. Refer to
Note 32 for segment results. Principal transactions
Principal transactions revenue is driven by many factors,
including:
•the bid-offer spread, which is the difference between the
price at which a market participant is willing and able to sell
an instrument to the Firm and the price at which another
market participant is willing and able to buy it from the
Firm, and vice versa; and
•realized and unrealized gains and losses on financial
instruments and commodities transactions, including those
accounted for under the fair value option, primarily used in
client-driven market-making activities, and on private equity
investments.
–Realized gains and losses result from the sale of
instruments, closing out or termination of transactions, or
interim cash payments.
–Unrealized gains and losses result from changes in
valuation.
In connection with its client-driven market-making activities,
the Firm transacts in debt and equity instruments, derivatives
and commodities, including physical commodities inventories
and financial instruments that reference commodities.
Principal transactions revenue also includes realized and
unrealized gains and losses related to:
•derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting
relationships, primarily fair value hedges of commodity and
foreign exchange risk;
•derivatives used for specific risk management purposes,
primarily to mitigate credit risk and foreign exchange risk.
Refer to Note 5 for further information on the income
statement classification of gains and losses from derivatives
activities.
In the financial commodity markets, the Firm transacts in OTC
derivatives (e.g., swaps, forwards, options) and ETD that
reference a wide range of underlying commodities. In the
physical commodity markets, the Firm primarily purchases and
sells precious and base metals and may hold other
commodities inventories under financing and other
arrangements with clients.
The following table presents all realized and unrealized gains
and losses recorded in principal transactions revenue. This
table excludes interest income and interest expense on trading
assets and liabilities, which are an integral part of the overall
performance of the Firm’s client-driven market-making
activities in CIB and cash deployment activities in Treasury
and CIO. Refer to Note 7 for further information on interest
income and interest expense.
Trading revenue is presented primarily by instrument type. The
Firm’s client-driven market-making businesses generally
utilize a variety of instrument types in connection with their
market-making and related risk-management activities;
accordingly, the trading revenue presented in the table below is
not representative of the total revenue of any individual LOB.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 195
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2019  2018 2017
Trading revenue by
instrument type    
Interest rate $ 2,552 $ 1,961 $ 2,479
Credit 1,611 1,395 1,329
Foreign exchange 3,171 3,222 2,746
Equity 5,812 4,924 3,873
Commodity 1,122 906 661
Total trading revenue 14,268 12,408 11,088
Private equity gains/(losses) (250) (349) 259
Principal transactions $ 14,018 $ 12,059 $ 11,347
Principal transactions revenue is earned primarily by CIB.
Refer to Note 32 for segment results.
Lending- and deposit-related fees
Lending-related fees include fees earned from loan
commitments, standby letters of credit, financial guarantees,
and other loan-servicing activities. Deposit-related fees include
fees earned in lieu of compensating balances, and fees earned
from performing cash management activities and other deposit
account services. Lending- and deposit-related fees in this
revenue category are recognized over the period in which the
related service is provided.
The following table presents the components of lending- and
deposit-related fees.
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Lending-related fees $1,184$1,117$ 1,110
Deposit-related fees 5,185 4,935 4,823
Total lending- and deposit-related fees$6,369$6,052$ 5,933
Lending- and deposit-related fees are earned by CCB, CIB,
CB, and AWM. Refer to Note 32 for segment results.
Asset management, administration and commissions
This revenue category includes fees from investment
management and related services, custody, brokerage services
and other products. The Firm manages assets on behalf of its
clients, including investors in Firm-sponsored funds and
owners of separately managed investment accounts.
Management fees are typically based on the value of assets
under management and are collected and recognized at the end
of each period over which the management services are
provided and the value of the managed assets is known. The
Firm also receives performance-based management fees,
which are earned based on exceeding certain benchmarks or
other performance targets and are accrued and recognized
when the probability of reversal is remote, typically at the end
of the related billing period. The Firm has contractual
arrangements with third parties to provide distribution and
other services in connection with its asset management
activities. Amounts paid to these third-party service providers
are generally recorded in professional and outside services
expense. The following table presents the components of Firmwide
asset management, administration and commissions.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Asset management fees   
Investment management fees(a) $ 10,865$ 10,768 $ 10,434
All other asset management fees(b) 315 270 296
Total asset management fees 11,180 11,038 10,730
Total administration fees(c) 2,197 2,179 2,029
Commissions and other fees   
Brokerage commissions(d) 2,439 2,505 2,239
All other commissions and fees 1,349 1,396 1,289
Total commissions and fees 3,788 3,901 3,528
Total asset management,
administration and
commissions $ 17,165$ 17,118 $ 16,287
(a)Represents fees earned from managing assets on behalf of the Firm’s
clients, including investors in Firm-sponsored funds and owners of
separately managed investment accounts.
(b)Represents fees for services that are ancillary to investment management
services, such as commissions earned on the sales or distribution of mutual
funds to clients. These fees are recorded as revenue at the time the service
is rendered or, in the case of certain distribution fees based on the
underlying fund’s asset value and/or investor redemption, recorded over
time as the investor remains in the fund or upon investor redemption.
(c)Predominantly includes fees for custody, securities lending, funds services
and securities clearance. These fees are recorded as revenue over the
period in which the related service is provided.
(d)Represents commissions earned when the Firm acts as a broker, by
facilitating its clients’ purchases and sales of securities and other financial
instruments. Brokerage commissions are collected and recognized as
revenue upon occurrence of the client transaction. The Firm reports certain
costs paid to third-party clearing houses and exchanges net against
commission revenue.
Asset management, administration and commissions are
earned primarily by AWM, CIB, CCB, and CB. Refer to Note
32 for segment results.
Mortgage fees and related income
This revenue category primarily reflects CCB’s Home Lending
net production and net mortgage servicing revenue.
Net production revenue includes fees and income recognized
as earned on mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell,
and the impact of risk management activities associated with
the mortgage pipeline and warehouse loans. Net production
revenue also includes gains and losses on sales and lower of
cost or fair value adjustments on mortgage loans held-for-sale
(excluding certain repurchased loans insured by U.S.
government agencies), and changes in the fair value of
financial instruments measured under the fair value option.
196 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Net mortgage servicing revenue includes operating revenue
earned from servicing third-party mortgage loans, which is
recognized over the period in which the service is provided;
changes in the fair value of MSRs; the impact of risk
management activities associated with MSRs; and gains and
losses on securitization of excess mortgage servicing. Net
mortgage servicing revenue also includes gains and losses on
sales and lower of cost or fair value adjustments of certain
repurchased loans insured by U.S. government agencies.
Refer to Note 15 for further information on risk management
activities and MSRs.
Net interest income from mortgage loans is recorded in interest
income.
Card income
This revenue category includes interchange and other income
from credit and debit card transactions, and fees earned from
processing card transactions for merchants, both of which are
recognized when purchases are made by a cardholder and
presented net of certain transaction-related costs. Card income
also includes account origination costs and annual fees, which
are deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over a 12-
month period.
Certain Chase credit card products offer the cardholder the
ability to earn points based on account activity, which the
cardholder can choose to redeem for cash and non-cash
rewards. The cost to the Firm related to these proprietary
rewards programs varies based on multiple factors including
the terms and conditions of the rewards programs, cardholder
activity, cardholder reward redemption rates and cardholder
reward selections. The Firm maintains a liability for its
obligations under its rewards programs and reports the current-
period cost as a reduction of card income.
Credit card revenue sharing agreements
The Firm has contractual agreements with numerous co-brand
partners that grant the Firm exclusive rights to issue co-
branded credit card products and market them to the customers
of such partners. These partners endorse the co-brand credit
card programs and provide their customer or member lists to
the Firm. The partners may also conduct marketing activities
and provide rewards redeemable under their own loyalty
programs that the Firm will grant to co-brand credit
cardholders based on account activity. The terms of these
agreements generally range from five to ten years. The Firm typically makes payments to the co-brand credit card
partners based on the cost of partners’ marketing activities and
loyalty program rewards provided to credit cardholders, new
account originations and sales volumes. Payments to partners
based on marketing efforts undertaken by the partners are
expensed by the Firm as incurred and reported as marketing
expense. Payments for partner loyalty program rewards are
reported as a reduction of card income when incurred.
Payments to partners based on new credit card account
originations are accounted for as direct loan origination costs
and are deferred and recognized as a reduction of card income
on a straight-line basis over a 12-month period. Payments to
partners based on sales volumes are reported as a reduction of
card income when the related interchange income is earned.
The following table presents the components of card income:
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2019  2018  2017
Interchange and merchant
processing income $20,370 $18,808 $17,080
Reward costs and partner
payments
 (14,312) (13,074)(b) (10,820)
Other card income(a) (754) (745) (1,827)
Total card income $ 5,304 $ 4,989 $ 4,433
(a)Predominantly represents account origination costs and annual fees,
which are deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over a 12-
month period.
(b)Includes an adjustment to the credit card rewards liability of
approximately $330 million, recorded in the second quarter of 2018.
Card income is earned primarily by CCB and CB. Refer to
Note 32 for segment results.
Refer to Note 18 for information on operating lease income
included within other income.
Noninterest expense
Other expense
Other expense on the Firm’s Consolidated statements of
income included the following:
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Legal expense/(benefit) $ 239$ 72$ (35)
FDIC-related expense 457 1,239 1,492
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 197
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 7 – Inter est income and Inter est expense
Interest income and interest expense are recorded in the
Consolidated statements of income and classified based on the
nature of the underlying asset or liability.
The following table presents the components of interest
income and interest expense:
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Interest income   
Loans(a) $ 50,375$ 47,620$ 41,008
 Taxable securities 7,962 5,653 5,534
 Non-taxable securities(b) 1,329 1,595 1,848
Total investment securities(a) 9,291 7,248 7,382
Trading assets - debt instruments 10,800 8,703 7,610
Federal funds sold and securities
purchased under resale agreements 6,146 3,819 2,327
Securities borrowed(c) 1,574 913 94
Deposits with banks 3,887 5,907 4,238
All other interest-earning assets(c)(d) 1,967 1,890 1,312
Total interest income(c) $ 84,040$ 76,100$ 63,971
Interest expense   
Interest bearing deposits $ 8,957$ 5,973$ 2,857
Federal funds purchased and
securities loaned or sold under
repurchase agreements 4,630 3,066 1,611
Short-term borrowings(e) 1,248 1,144 481
Trading liabilities - debt and all
other interest-bearing liabilities(c)
(f) 2,585 2,387 1,669
Long-term debt 8,807 7,978 6,753
Beneficial interest issued by
consolidated VIEs 568 493 503
Total interest expense(c) $ 26,795$ 21,041$ 13,874
Net interest income $ 57,245$ 55,059$ 50,097
Provision for credit losses 5,585 4,871 5,290
Net interest income after provision
for credit losses $ 51,660$ 50,188$ 44,807
(a)Includes the amortization/accretion of unearned income (e.g., purchase
premiums/discounts, net deferred fees/costs, etc.).
(b)Represents securities that are tax-exempt for U.S. federal income tax
purposes.
(c)In the second quarter of 2019, the Firm implemented certain presentation
changes that impacted interest income and interest expense, but had no
effect on net interest income. These changes were made to align the
accounting treatment between the balance sheet and the related interest
income or expense, primarily by offsetting interest income and expense for
certain prime brokerage-related held-for-investment customer receivables
and payables that are currently presented as a single margin account on the
balance sheet. These changes were applied retrospectively and,
accordingly, prior period amounts were revised to conform with the
current presentation.
(d)Includes interest earned on prime brokerage-related held-for-investment
customer receivables, which are classified in accrued interest and accounts
receivable, and all other interest-earning assets, which are classified in
other assets on the Consolidated balance sheets.
(e)Includes commercial paper.
(f)Other interest-bearing liabilities includes interest expense on prime
brokerage-related customer payables. Interest income and interest expense includes the current-
period interest accruals for financial instruments measured at
fair value, except for derivatives and financial instruments
containing embedded derivatives that would be separately
accounted for in accordance with U.S. GAAP, absent the fair
value option election; for those instruments, all changes in fair
value including any interest elements, are reported in principal
transactions revenue. For financial instruments that are not
measured at fair value, the related interest is included within
interest income or interest expense, as applicable. Refer to
Notes 12, 10, 11 and 20, for further information on accounting
for interest income and interest expense related to loans,
investment securities, securities financing activities (i.e.,
securities purchased or sold under resale or repurchase
agreements; securities borrowed; and securities loaned) and
long-term debt, respectively.
198 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Note 8 – Pension and other  postr etirement
employee benefit plans
The Firm has various defined benefit pension plans and OPEB
plans that provide benefits to its employees in the U.S. and
certain non-U.S. locations. The Firm also provides a qualified
defined contribution plan in the U.S. and maintains other
similar arrangements in certain non-U.S. locations.
The principal defined benefit pension plan in the U.S. is a
qualified noncontributory plan that provides benefits to
substantially all U.S. employees. In connection with changes
to the U.S. Retirement Savings Program during the fourth
quarter of 2018, the Firm announced that it will freeze the U.S.
defined benefit pension plan (the “Plan Freeze”). Commencing
on January 1, 2020 (and January 1, 2019 for new hires), new
pay credits are directed to the U.S. defined contribution plan.
Interest credits on the U.S. defined benefit pension plan will
continue to accrue. As a result, a curtailment was triggered and
a remeasurement of the U.S. defined benefit pension obligation
and plan assets occurred as of November 30, 2018. The plan
design change did not have a material impact on the U.S.
defined benefit pension plan or the Firm’s Consolidated
Financial Statements.
The Firm also has defined benefit pension plans that are
offered in certain non-U.S. locations based on factors such as
eligible compensation, age and/or years of service. It is the
Firm’s policy to fund the pension plans in amounts sufficient
to meet the requirements under applicable laws. The Firm does
not anticipate at this time making any contribution to the U.S.
defined benefit pension plan in 2020. The 2020 contributions
to the non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans are expected to
be $49 million, of which $34 million are contractually
required.
The Firm also has a number of nonqualified noncontributory
defined benefit pension plans that are unfunded. These plans
provide supplemental defined pension benefits to certain
employees. 
The Firm offers postretirement medical and life insurance
benefits to certain U.S. retirees and postretirement medical
benefits to certain qualifying U.S. and U.K. employees.
The Firm partially defrays the cost of its U.S. OPEB obligation
through corporate-owned life insurance (“COLI”) purchased
on the lives of eligible employees and retirees. While the Firm
owns the COLI policies, certain COLI proceeds (death
benefits, withdrawals and other distributions) may be used
only to reimburse the Firm for its net postretirement benefit
claim payments and related administrative expense. The Firm
has prefunded its U.S. postretirement benefit obligations. The
U.K. OPEB plan is unfunded.   
Pension and OPEB accounting guidance generally requires that
the difference between plan assets at fair value and the benefit
obligation be measured and recorded on the balance sheet.
Plans that are overfunded (excess of plan assets over benefit
obligation) are recorded in other assets and plans that are
underfunded (excess benefit obligation over plan assets) are
recorded in other liabilities. Gains or losses resulting from
changes in the benefit obligation and the value of plan assets
are recorded in OCI and recognized as part of the net periodic
benefit cost over subsequent periods as discussed in the Gains
and losses section of this Note. Additionally, benefits earned
during the year are reported in compensation expense; all other
components of net periodic defined benefit costs are reported
in other expense in the Consolidated statements of income.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 199
Notes to consolidated financial statements
The following table presents the changes in benefit obligations, plan assets, the net funded status, and the pretax pension and OPEB
amounts recorded in AOCI on the Consolidated balance sheets for the Firm’s defined benefit pension and OPEB plans, and the
weighted-average actuarial annualized assumptions for the projected and accumulated postretirement benefit obligations.
As of or for the year ended December 31,Defined benefit
pension plans OPEB plans
(in millions) 2019 2018 2019  2018
Change in benefit obligation   
Benefit obligation, beginning of year $ (15,512 ) $ (16,700 ) $ (612) $ (684)
Benefits earned during the year (356) (354) —  —
Interest cost on benefit obligations (596) (556) (24) (24)
Plan amendments (5) (29) —  —
Plan curtailment — 123 —  —
Employee contributions (8) (7) (14) (15)
Net gain/(loss) (1,296 ) (g) 938 (g) (51) 40
Benefits paid 820  873 67  69
Plan settlements — 15 —  —
Foreign exchange impact and other (116)  185 (2)  2
Benefit obligation, end of year (a) $ (17,069 ) $ (15,512 ) $ (636) $ (612)
Change in plan assets   
Fair value of plan assets, beginning of year $ 18,052 $ 19,603 $ 2,633  $ 2,757
Actual return on plan assets 2,932  (548) 454  (28)
Firm contributions 80  75 2  2
Employee contributions 8  7 14  15
Benefits paid (820) (873) (110) (113)
Plan settlements —  (15) —  —
Foreign exchange impact and other 121  (197) —  —
Fair value of plan assets, end of year  (a)(b) $ 20,373 $ 18,052 $ 2,993  $ 2,633
Net funded status (c)(d) $ 3,304 $ 2,540 $ 2,357  $ 2,021
Accumulated benefit obligation, end of year $ (17,047 ) $ (15,494 ) NA  NA
Pretax pension and OPEB amounts r ecorded in AOCI
Net gain/(loss) $ (2,260 ) $ (3,134 ) $ 470 $ 184
Prior service credit/(cost) (26) (23) — —
Accumulated other  compr ehensive income/(loss), pr etax, end of year $ (2,286 ) $ (3,157 ) $ 470 $ 184
Weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine benefit obligations
Discount rate (e) 0.20 - 3.30% 0.60 - 4.30 % 3.20% 4.20%
Rate of compensation increase (e) 2.25 - 3.00 2.25 – 3.00 NA  NA
Interest crediting rate (e) 1.78 - 4.65% 1.81 - 4.90% NA  NA
Health car e cost tr end rate (f)
Assumed for next year NA NA 5.00  5.00
Ultimate NA NA 5.00  5.00
Year when rate will reach ultimate NA NA 2020  2019
(a)At December 31, 2019  and 2018 , included non-U.S. benefit obligations of $(3.8) billion  and $(3.3) billion , and plan assets of $4.0 billion  and $3.5 billion , respectively ,
predominantly in the U.K.
(b)At December 31, 2019  and 2018 , defined benefit pension plan amounts that were not measured at fair value included $1.3 billion  and $340 million , respectively , of
accrued receivables, and $1.7 billion  and $503 million , respectively , of accrued liabilities.
(c)Represents plans with an aggregate overfunded balance of $6.3 billion  and $5.1 billion  at December 31, 2019  and 2018 , respectively , and plans with an aggregate
underfunded balance of $618 million  and $547 million  at December 31, 2019  and 2018 , respectively .
(d)For pension plans with a projected benefit obligation exceeding plan assets, the projected benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets was $1.5 billion  and $885 million
at December 31, 2019 , respectively and $1.3 billion  and $762 million  at December 31, 2018 , respectively . For pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation
exceeding plan assets, the accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets was $1.4 billion  and $885 million  at December 31, 2019 , respectively , and $1.3
billion  and $762 million  at December 31, 2018 , respectively . For OPEB plans with a projected benefit obligation exceeding plan assets, the projected benefit obligation
was $43 million  and $26 million  at December 31, 2019  and 2018 , respectively , and they had no plan assets.
(e)For the U.S. defined benefit pension plans, the discount rate assumption was 3.30% and 4.30%, and the interest crediting rate was 4.65% and 4.90%, for 2019  and 2018 ,
respectively . The rate of compensation increase was not applicable to the U.S. plan in 2019 due to the Plan Freeze, and was 2.30% in 2018. The rate of compensation
increase presented in the table for 2019 applies to the non-U.S. plans.
(f)Excludes participants whose benefits under the plan are capped.
(g)At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the gain/(loss) was primarily attributable to the change in the discount rate.
200 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Gains and losses
For the Firm’s defined benefit pension plans, fair value is used
to determine the expected return on plan assets. Amortization
of net gains and losses is included in annual net periodic
benefit cost if, as of the beginning of the year, the net gain or
loss exceeds 10% of the greater of the projected benefit
obligation or the fair value of the plan assets. Any excess is
amortized over the average future service period of defined
benefit pension plan participants, which for the U.S. defined
benefit pension plan is currently eight years and for the non-
U.S. defined benefit pension plans is the period appropriate for
the affected plan. As a result of the Plan Freeze, beginning in
2020, any excess for the U.S. defined benefit pension plan will
be amortized over the average expected lifetime of plan
participants which is currently 38 years. In addition, prior
service costs are amortized over the average remaining service
period of active employees expected to receive benefits under
the plan when the prior service cost is first recognized.
For the Firm’s OPEB plans, a calculated value that recognizes
changes in fair value over a five-year period is used to
determine the expected return on plan assets. This value is
referred to as the market-related value of assets. Amortization
of net gains and losses, adjusted for gains and losses not yet
recognized, is included in annual net periodic benefit cost if, as
of the beginning of the year, the net gain or loss exceeds 10%
of the greater of the accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation or the market-related value of assets. Any excess is
amortized over the average expected lifetime of retired
participants, which is currently eleven years.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 201
Notes to consolidated financial statements
The following table presents the components of net periodic benefit costs reported in the Consolidated statements of income for the
Firm’s U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension, defined contribution and OPEB plans, and in other comprehensive income for
the defined benefit pension and OPEB plans, and the weighted-average annualized actuarial assumptions for the net periodic
benefit cost.
Pension plans OPEB plans
Year ended December 31, (in millions)20192018 201720192018 2017
Components of net periodic benefit cost     
Benefits earned during the year $ 356 $ 354 $ 330 $ — $ — $ —
Interest cost on benefit obligations 596 556 598 24 24 28
Expected return on plan assets (915) (981) (968) (112) (103) (97)
Amortization:     
Net (gain)/loss 167 103 250 — — —
Prior service (credit)/cost 3 (23) (36) — — —
Curtailment (gain)/loss — 21 — — — —
Settlement (gain)/loss — 2 2 — — —
Net periodic defined benefit cost (a) $ 207 $ 32 $ 176 $ (88)$ (79)$ (69)
Other defined benefit pension plans (b) 25 20 24 NA NA NA
Total defined benefit plans $ 232 $ 52 $ 200 $ (88)$ (79)$ (69)
Total defined contribution plans 952 872 814 NA NA NA
Total pension and OPEB cost included in noninter est
expense $ 1,184 $ 924 $ 1,014 $ (88)$ (79)$ (69)
Changes in plan assets and benefit obligations r ecognized in other  compr ehensive income   
Prior service (credit)/cost arising during the year 5 29 — — — —
Net (gain)/loss arising during the year (719) 467 (669) (286) 91 (133)
Amortization of net loss (167) (103) (250) — — —
Amortization of prior service (cost)/credit (3) 23 36 — — —
Curtailment gain/(loss) — (21) — — — —
Settlement gain/(loss) — (2) (2) — — —
Foreign exchange impact and other 13 (30) 54 — (4) —
Total r ecognized in other  compr ehensive income $ (871)$ 363 $ (831) $ (286)$ 87 $ (133)
Total r ecognized in net periodic benefit cost and other
compr ehensive income $ (664)$ 395 $ (655) $ (374)$ 8$ (202)
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit costs   
Discount rate (c) 0.60 - 4.30% 0.60 - 4.50 % 0.60 - 4.30 % 4.20% 3.70% 4.20%
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets (c) 0.00 - 5.50 0.70 - 5.50 0.70 - 6.00 4.30 4.00 5.00
Rate of compensation increase (c) 2.25 - 3.00 2.25 - 3.00 2.25 - 3.00 NA NA NA
Interest crediting rate (c) 1.81 - 4.90% 1.81- 4.90% 1.81- 4.90% NA NA NA
Health car e cost tr end rate (d)     
Assumed for next year NA NA NA 5.00 5.00 5.00
Ultimate NA NA NA 5.00 5.00 5.00
Year when rate will reach ultimate NA NA NA 2019 2018 2017
(a)Benefits earned during the year are reported in compensation expense; all other components of net periodic defined benefit costs are reported within other
expense in the Consolidated statements of income.
(b)Includes various defined benefit pension plans which are individually immaterial.
(c)The rate assumptions for the U.S. defined benefit pension plans are at the upper end of the range, except for the rate of compensation increase, which was 2.30%
for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
(d)Excludes participants whose benefits under the plan are capped.
Plan assumptions
The Firm’s expected long-term rate of return for defined
benefit pension and OPEB plan assets is a blended weighted
average, by asset allocation of the projected long-term returns
for the various asset classes, taking into consideration local
market conditions and the specific allocation of plan assets.
Returns on asset classes are developed using a forward-looking
approach and are not strictly based on historical returns.
Consideration is also given to current market conditions and
the short-term portfolio mix of each plan. The discount rate used in determining the benefit obligation
under the U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans was
provided by the Firm’s actuaries. This rate was selected by
reference to the yields on portfolios of bonds with maturity
dates and coupons that closely match each of the plan’s
projected cash flows. The discount rate for the U.K. defined
benefit pension plan represents a rate of appropriate duration
from the analysis of yield curves provided by the Firm’s
actuaries.
At December 31, 2019, the Firm decreased the discount rates
used to determine its benefit obligations for the U.S.
202 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
defined benefit pension and OPEB plans in light of current
market interest rates, which is expected to decrease expense by
approximately $69 million in 2020. The 2020 expected long-
term rate of return on U.S. defined benefit pension plan assets
and U.S. OPEB plan assets are 4.00% and 4.11%, respectively.
The following table represents the effect of a 25-basis point
decline in the two listed rates below on estimated 2020 defined
benefit pension and OPEB plan expense, as well as the effect
on the postretirement benefit obligations.
(in millions)Defined benefit
pension and OPEB
plan expense Benefit
obligation
Expected long-term rate of return$ 57 NA
Discount rate $ 6 $ 544 Investment strategy and asset allocation
The assets of the Firm’s defined benefit pension plans are held
in various trusts and are invested in well-diversified portfolios
of equity and fixed income securities, cash and cash
equivalents, and alternative investments. The trust-owned
assets of the Firm’s U.S. OPEB plan are invested primarily in
fixed income securities. COLI policies used to partially defray
the cost of the Firm’s U.S. OPEB plan are invested in separate
accounts of an insurance company and are allocated to
investments intended to replicate equity and fixed income
indices.
The investment policies for the assets of the Firm’s
defined benefit pension plans are to optimize the risk-
return relationship as appropriate to the needs and goals
of each plan using a global portfolio of various asset
classes diversified by market segment, economic sector,
and issuer. Assets are managed by a combination of
internal and external investment managers. The Firm
regularly reviews the asset allocations and asset
managers, as well as other factors that impact the
portfolios, which are rebalanced when deemed necessary.
Investments held by the plans include financial instruments
which are exposed to various risks such as interest rate, market
and credit risks. Exposure to a concentration of credit risk is
mitigated by the broad diversification of both U.S. and non-
U.S. investments. Additionally, the investments in each of the
collective investment funds and/or registered investment
companies are further diversified into various financial
instruments. As of December 31, 2019, assets held by the
Firm’s defined benefit pension and OPEB plans do not include
securities issued by JPMorgan Chase or its affiliates, except
through indirect exposures through investments in ETFs,
mutual funds and collective investment funds managed by
third-parties. The plans hold investments that are sponsored or
managed by affiliates of JPMorgan Chase in the amount of
$3.1 billion and $3.7 billion, as of December 31, 2019 and
2018, respectively.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 203
The following table presents the weighted-average asset allocation of the fair values of total plan assets at December 31 for the
years indicated, as well as the respective approved asset allocation ranges by asset class.
Defined benefit pension plans(a) OPEB plan(d)
 Asset % of plan assets  Asset % of plan assets
December 31, Allocation 2019 2018  Allocation 2019  2018
Asset class      
Debt securities(b) 42-100% 74% 48% 30-70% 60% 61%
Equity securities 0-40 16 37 30-70 40 39
Real estate 0-6 1 2 — —  —
Alternatives (c) 0-24 9 13 — —  —
Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
(a)Represents the U.S. defined benefit pension plan only, as that is the most significant plan.
(b)Debt securities primarily includes cash and cash equivalents, corporate debt, U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. government, asset-backed and mortgage-
backed securities.
(c)Alternatives primarily include limited partnerships.
(d)Represents the U.S. OPEB plan only, as the U.K. OPEB plan is unfunded.
Fair value measurement of the plans’ assets and liabilities
Refer to Note 2 for information on fair value measurements, including descriptions of level 1, 2, and 3 of the fair value hierarchy
and the valuation methods employed by the Firm.
Pension and OPEB plan assets and liabilities measured at fair value     
 Defined benefit pension plans
 2019 2018
December 31,
(in millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total fair
value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3Total fair
value
Cash and cash equivalents $ 157 $ 1 $ — $ 158 $ 343 $ 1 $ — $ 344
Equity securities 3,240 184 2 3,426 5,342 162 2 5,506
Collective investment funds(a) 265 — — 265 161 — — 161
Limited partnerships(b) 187 — — 187 40 — — 40
Corporate debt securities(c) — 7,090 2 7,092 — 3,540 3 3,543
U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S.
government debt securities 1,790 1,054 — 2,844 1,191 743 — 1,934
Mortgage-backed securities 314 701 4 1,019 82 272 3 357
Derivative receivables — 337 — 337 — 143 — 143
Other(d) 785 132 250 1,167 885 80 302 1,267
Total assets measured at fair value(e)$ 6,738 $ 9,499 $ 258 $16,495 $ 8,044 $ 4,941 $ 310$13,295
Derivative payables $ — $ (118)$ — $ (118)$ — $ (96) $ — $ (96)
Total liabilities measured at fair
value(e) $ — $ (118)$ — $ (118)$ — $ (96) $ — $ (96)
(a)At December 31, 2019 and 2018, collective investment funds primarily included a mix of short-term investment funds, U.S. and non-U.S. equity investments
(including index) and real estate funds.
(b)Unfunded commitments to purchase limited partnership investments for the plans were $451 million and $521 million for 2019 and 2018, respectively.
(c)Corporate debt securities include debt securities of U.S. and non-U.S. corporations.
(d)Other consists primarily of mutual funds, money market funds and participating annuity contracts. Mutual funds and money market funds are primarily
classified within level 1 of the fair value hierarchy given they are valued using market observable prices. Participating annuity contracts are classified within
level 3 of the fair value hierarchy due to a lack of market mechanisms for transferring each policy and surrender restrictions.
(e)At December 31, 2019 and 2018, excludes $4.4 billion and $5.0 billion of certain investments that are measured at fair value using the net asset value per share
(or its equivalent) as a practical expedient, which are not required to be classified in the fair value hierarchy, $1.3 billion and $340 million of defined benefit
pension plan receivables for investments sold and dividends and interest receivables, $1.7 billion and $479 million of defined benefit pension plan payables for
investments purchased, and $25 million and $24 million of other liabilities, respectively.
At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the assets of the U.S. OPEB plan consisted of $562 million and $561 million, respectively, in
cash and cash equivalents, corporate debt securities, U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. government debt securities and other
assets classified in level 1 and level 2 of the valuation hierarchy and $2.4 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively, of COLI policies
classified in level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.
204 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Changes in level 3 fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs   
(in millions)Fair value,
Beginning
balanceActual return on plan assets
 Purchases, sales
and settlements,
net(b)Transfers in
and/or out of
level 3Fair value,
Ending
balanceRealized
gains/(losses)Unrealized
gains/(losses)(b)
Year ended December 31, 2019
   U.S. defined benefit pension plan
       Annuity contracts and other (a) $ 310$ — $ 31 $ (85)$ 2$ 258
  U.S. OPEB plan
       COLI policies $ 2,072$ — $ 401 $ (42)$ — $ 2,431
Year ended December 31, 2018
   U.S. defined benefit pension plan
       Annuity contracts and other (a) $ 310$ — $ — $ (1)$ 1$ 310
   U.S. OPEB plan
       COLI policies $ 2,157$ — $ (42) $ (43)$ — $ 2,072
(a)Substantially all are participating annuity contracts.
(b)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
Estimated future benefit payments
The following table presents benefit payments expected to be
paid, which include the effect of expected future service, for
the years indicated. The OPEB medical and life insurance
payments are net of expected retiree contributions.
Year ended December
31,
(in millions)Defined
benefit
pension
plans OPEB
before
Medicare
Part D
subsidyMedicare
Part D
subsidy
2020 $ 1,030 $ 59$ 1
2021 1,020 57 1
2022 1,020 54 —
2023 980 52 —
2024 970 50 —
Years 2025–2029 4,613 211 1
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 205
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 9 – Employee shar e-based incentives
Employee share-based awards
In 2019, 2018 and 2017, JPMorgan Chase granted long-term
share-based awards to certain employees under its LTIP, as
amended and restated effective May 15, 2018. Under the terms
of the LTIP, as of December 31, 2019, 75 million shares
of common stock were available for issuance through
May 2022. The LTIP is the only active plan under which the
Firm is currently granting share-based incentive awards. In the
following discussion, the LTIP, plus prior Firm plans and plans
assumed as the result of acquisitions, are referred to
collectively as the “LTI Plans,” and such plans constitute the
Firm’s share-based incentive plans.
RSUs are awarded at no cost to the recipient upon their grant.
Generally, RSUs are granted annually and vest at a rate of 50%
after two years and 50% after three years and are converted
into shares of common stock as of the vesting date. In addition,
RSUs typically include full-career eligibility provisions, which
allow employees to continue to vest upon voluntary
termination based on age or service-related requirements,
subject to post-employment and other restrictions. All RSU
awards are subject to forfeiture until vested and contain
clawback provisions that may result in cancellation under
certain specified circumstances. Predominantly all RSUs
entitle the recipient to receive cash payments equivalent to any
dividends paid on the underlying common stock during the
period the RSUs are outstanding.
Performance share units (“PSUs”) are granted annually, and
approved by the Firm’s Board of Directors, to members of the
Firm’s Operating Committee under the variable compensation
program. PSUs are subject to the Firm’s achievement of
specified performance criteria over a three-year period. The
number of awards that vest can range from zero to 150% of the
grant amount. In addition, dividends that accrue during the
vesting period are reinvested in dividend equivalent share
units. PSUs and the related dividend equivalent share units are
converted into shares of common stock after vesting. Once the PSUs and dividend equivalent share units have
vested, the shares of common stock that are delivered, after
applicable tax withholding, must be held for an additional two-
year period, for a total combined vesting and holding period of
approximately five to eight years from the grant date
depending on regulations in certain countries.
Under the LTI Plans, stock appreciation rights (“SARs”) and
stock options have generally been granted with an exercise
price equal to the fair value of JPMorgan Chase’s common
stock on the grant date. SARs and stock options generally
expire ten years after the grant date. There were no material
grants of employee SARs or stock options in 2019, 2018 and
2017.
The Firm separately recognizes compensation expense for each
tranche of each award, net of estimated forfeitures, as if it were
a separate award with its own vesting date. Generally, for each
tranche granted, compensation expense is recognized on a
straight-line basis from the grant date until the vesting date of
the respective tranche, provided that the employees will not
become full-career eligible during the vesting period. For
awards with full-career eligibility provisions and awards
granted with no future substantive service requirement, the
Firm accrues the estimated value of awards expected to be
awarded to employees as of the grant date without giving
consideration to the impact of post-employment restrictions.
For each tranche granted to employees who will become full-
career eligible during the vesting period, compensation
expense is recognized on a straight-line basis from the grant
date until the earlier of the employee’s full-career eligibility
date or the vesting date of the respective tranche.
The Firm’s policy for issuing shares upon settlement of
employee share-based incentive awards is to issue either new
shares of common stock or treasury shares. During 2019, 2018
and 2017, the Firm settled all of its employee share-based
awards by issuing treasury shares.
Refer to Note 23 for further information on the classification
of share-based awards for purposes of calculating earnings per
share.
206 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
RSUs, PSUs, employee SARs and stock options activity
Generally, compensation expense for RSUs and PSUs is measured based on the number of units granted multiplied by the stock
price at the grant date, and for employee SARs and stock options, is measured at the grant date using the Black-Scholes valuation
model. Compensation expense for these awards is recognized in net income as described previously. The following table
summarizes JPMorgan Chase’s RSUs, PSUs, employee SARs and stock options activity for 2019.
  RSUs/PSUs  SARs/Options
Year ended December 31, 2019  
Number of
unitsWeighted-
average grant
date fair value 
Number of
awards Weighted-
average
exercise priceWeighted-average
remaining contractual
life
(in years)Aggregate
intrinsic
value(in thousands, except weighted-average data, and where
otherwise stated)   
Outstanding, January 1  58,809$ 85.04 12,463 $ 41.46 
Granted  23,811 99.79 18 111.01 
Exercised or vested  (28,754) 69.98 (6,923) 41.50 
Forfeited  (1,627) 98.58 — —  
Canceled  NA NA (31) 89.71 
Outstanding, December 31  52,239$ 99.62 5,527 $ 41.36 1.9$ 539,071
Exercisable, December 31  NA NA 5,522 41.29 1.9 538,971
The total fair value of RSUs that vested during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, was $2.9 billion, $3.6 billion
and $2.9 billion, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and
2017, was $503 million, $370 million and $651 million, respectively.
Compensation expense
The Firm recognized the following noncash compensation
expense related to its various employee share-based incentive
plans in its Consolidated statements of income.
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Cost of prior grants of RSUs, PSUs,
SARs and employee stock options that
are amortized over their applicable
vesting periods  $1,141 $1,241 $1,125
Accrual of estimated costs of share-
based awards to be granted in future
periods including those to full-career
eligible employees  1,115 1,081 945
Total noncash compensation expense
related to employee share-based
incentive plans  $2,256 $2,322 $2,070
At December 31, 2019, approximately $693 million (pretax) of
compensation expense related to unvested awards had not yet
been charged to net income. That cost is expected to be
amortized into compensation expense over a weighted-average
period of 1.6 years. The Firm does not capitalize any
compensation expense related to share-based compensation
awards to employees. Tax benefits
Excess tax benefits (including tax benefits from dividends or
dividend equivalents) on share-based payment awards are
recognized within income tax expense in the Consolidated
statements of income. Income tax benefits related to share-
based incentive arrangements recognized in the Firm’s
Consolidated statements of income for the years ended
December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, were $895 million,
$1.1 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 207
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 10 – Investment securities
Investment securities consist of debt securities that are
classified as AFS or HTM. Debt securities classified as trading
assets are discussed in Note  2. Predominantly all of  the Firm’ s
AFS and HTM securities are held by  Treasury and CIO in
connection with its asset-liability management activities. At
December 31, 2019 , the investment securities portfolio
consisted of debt securities with an average credit rating of
AA+  (based upon external ratings where available, and where
not available, based primarily upon internal ratings).  The
Firm’ s internal risk ratings generally align with the qualitative
characteristics (e.g., borrower capacity to meet financial
commitments and vulnerability to changes in the economic
environment) defined by S&P  and Moody’ s, however the
quantitative characteristics (e.g., PDs and LGDs) may dif fer as
they reflect internal historical experiences and assumptions.
AFS securities are carried at fair value on the Consolidated
balance sheets. Unrealized gains and losses, after any
applicable hedge accounting adjustments, are reported as net increases or decreases to AOCI. The specific identification
method is used to determine realized gains and losses on AFS
securities, which are included in securities gains/(losses) on the
Consolidated statements of income. HTM debt securities,
which  the Firm has the intent and ability to hold until maturity ,
are carried at amortized cost on the Consolidated balance
sheets.
For both AFS and HTM debt securities, purchase discounts or
premiums are generally amortized into interest income on a
level-yield basis over the contractual life of the security .
However , premiums on certain callable debt securities are
amortized to the earliest call date.
During the  fourth quarter of 2019, the Firm transferred  $6.2
billion  of collateralized loan obligations from AFS to HTM for
capital management purposes. These securities were transferred
at fair value in a non-cash transaction.
208 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
The amortized costs and estimated fair values of the investment securities portfolio were as follows for the dates indicated.
 2019 2018
December 31, (in millions)Amortized
costGross
unrealized
gainsGross
unrealized
lossesFair
valueAmortized
costGross
unrealized
gainsGross
unrealized
lossesFair
value
Available-for-sale securities     
Mortgage-backed securities:     
U.S. GSEs and government agencies(a) $107,811$ 2,395$ 89 $110,117 $69,026$ 594$ 974 $68,646
Residential:     
U.S 10,223 233 6 10,450 5,877 79 31 5,925
Non-U.S. 2,477 64 1 2,540 2,529 72 6 2,595
Commercial 5,137 64 13 5,188 6,758 43 147 6,654
Total mortgage-backed securities 125,648 2,756 109 128,295 84,190 788 1,158 83,820
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 139,162 449 175 139,436 55,771 366 78 56,059
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 27,693 2,118 1 29,810 36,221 1,582 80 37,723
Certificates of deposit 77 — — 77 75 — — 75
Non-U.S. government debt securities 21,427 377 17 21,787 23,771 351 20 24,102
Corporate debt securities 823 22 — 845 1,904 23 9 1,918
Asset-backed securities:     
Collateralized loan obligations 25,038 9 56 24,991 19,612 1 176 19,437
Other 5,438 40 20 5,458 7,225 57 22 7,260
Total available-for-sale securities 345,306 5,771 378 350,699 228,769 3,168 1,543 230,394
Held-to-maturity securities     
Mortgage-backed securities:     
U.S. GSEs and government agencies(a) 36,523 1,165 62 37,626 26,610 134 200 26,544
Total mortgage-backed securities 36,523 1,165 62 37,626 26,610 134 200 26,544
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 51 — 1 50 — — — —
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 4,797 299 — 5,096 4,824 105 15 4,914
Asset-backed securities:     
Collateralized loan obligations 6,169 — — 6,169 — — — —
Total held-to-maturity securities 47,540 1,464 63 48,941 31,434 239 215 31,458
Total investment securities $392,846$ 7,235$ 441 $399,640 $260,203$ 3,407$1,758 $261,852
(a)Includes AFS U.S. GSE obligations with fair values of $78.5 billion and $50.7 billion, and HTM U.S. GSE obligations with amortized cost of $31.6 billion and
$20.9 billion, at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As of December 31, 2019, mortgage-backed securities issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac each
exceeded 10% of JPMorgan Chase’s total stockholders’ equity; the amortized cost and fair value of such securities were $69.4 billion and $71.4 billion, and
$38.7 billion and $39.6 billion, respectively.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 209
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Investment securities impairment
The following tables present the fair value and gross unrealized losses for investment securities by aging category at December 31,
2019 and 2018.
 Investment securities with gross unrealized losses
 Less than 12 months  12 months or more   
December 31, 2019 (in millions)Fair valueGross unrealized
losses  Fair valueGross unrealized
losses Total fair valueTotal gross
unrealized losses
Available-for-sale securities      
Mortgage-backed securities:      
U.S. GSEs and government agencies $ 16,966$ 53 $ 3,058$ 36$ 20,024$ 89
Residential:      
U.S 1,072 3 423 3 1,495 6
Non-U.S. 13 — 420 1 433 1
Commercial 1,287 12 199 1 1,486 13
Total mortgage-backed securities 19,338 68 4,100 41 23,438 109
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 23,003 145 5,695 30 28,698 175
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 186 1 — — 186 1
Certificates of deposit 77 — — — 77 —
Non-U.S. government debt securities 3,970 13 1,406 4 5,376 17
Corporate debt securities — — — — — —
Asset-backed securities:      
Collateralized loan obligations 10,364 11 7,756 45 18,120 56
Other 1,639 9 753 11 2,392 20
Total available-for-sale securities 58,577 247 19,710 131 78,287 378
Held-to-maturity securities      
Mortgage-backed securities:      
U.S. GSEs and government agencies 5,186 62 81 — 5,267 62
Total mortgage-backed securities 5,186 62 81 — 5,267 62
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 50 1 — — 50 1
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities — — — — — —
Asset-backed securities:      
Collateralized loan obligations 3,421 — 1,375 — 4,796 —
Total held-to-maturity securities 8,657 63 1,456 — 10,113 63
Total investment securities with gross
unrealized losses $ 67,234$ 310 $ 21,166$ 131$ 88,400$ 441
210 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
 Investment securities with gross unrealized losses
 Less than 12 months 12 months or more   
December 31, 2018 (in millions) Fair valueGross unrealized
losses Fair valueGross unrealized
losses Total fair valueTotal gross
unrealized losses
Available-for-sale securities      
Mortgage-backed securities:      
U.S. GSEs and government agencies 17,656 318 22,728 656 40,384 974
Residential:      
U.S. 623 4 1,445 27 2,068 31
Non-U.S. 907 5 165 1 1,072 6
Commercial 974 6 3,172 141 4,146 147
Total mortgage-backed securities 20,160 333 27,510 825 47,670 1,158
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 4,792 7 2,391 71 7,183 78
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 1,808 15 2,477 65 4,285 80
Certificates of deposit 75 — — — 75 —
Non-U.S. government debt securities 3,123 5 1,937 15 5,060 20
Corporate debt securities 478 8 37 1 515 9
Asset-backed securities:      
Collateralized loan obligations 18,681 176 — — 18,681 176
Other 1,208 6 2,354 16 3,562 22
Total available-for-sale securities 50,325 550 36,706 993 87,031 1,543
Held-to-maturity securities      
Mortgage-backed securities:      
U.S. GSEs and government agencies 4,385 23 7,082 177 11,467 200
Total mortgage-backed securities 4,385 23 7,082 177 11,467 200
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 12 — 1,114 15 1,126 15
Total held-to-maturity securities 4,397 23 8,196 192 12,593 215
Total investment securities with gross
unrealized losses 54,722 573 44,902 1,185 99,624 1,758
Other-than-temporary impairment
AFS and HTM debt securities in unrealized loss positions are
analyzed as part of the Firm’s ongoing assessment of OTTI.
The Firm considers a decline in fair value to be other-than-
temporary when the Firm does not expect to recover the entire
amortized cost basis of the security.
For AFS debt securities, the Firm recognizes OTTI losses in
earnings if the Firm has the intent to sell the debt security, or if
it is more likely than not that the Firm will be required to sell
the debt security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. In
these circumstances the impairment loss is equal to the full
difference between the amortized cost basis and the fair value
of the securities.
For debt securities in an unrealized loss position that the Firm
has the intent and ability to hold, the securities are evaluated to
determine if a credit loss exists. In the event of a credit loss,
only the amount of impairment associated with the credit loss
is recognized in income. Amounts relating to factors other than
credit losses are recorded in OCI.
Factors considered in evaluating potential OTTI include
adverse conditions specifically related to the industry,
geographic area or financial condition of the issuer or
underlying collateral of a security; payment structure of the
security; changes to the rating of the security by a rating agency; the volatility of the fair value changes; and the Firm’s
intent and ability to hold the security until recovery.
The Firm’s cash flow evaluations take into account the factors
noted above and expectations of relevant market and economic
data as of the end of the reporting period. When assessing
securities issued in a securitization for OTTI, the Firm
estimates cash flows considering underlying loan-level data
and structural features of the securitization, such as
subordination, excess spread, overcollateralization or other
forms of credit enhancement, and compares the losses
projected for the underlying collateral (“pool losses”) against
the level of credit enhancement in the securitization structure
to determine whether these features are sufficient to absorb the
pool losses, or whether a credit loss exists. The Firm also
performs other analyses to support its cash flow projections,
such as first-loss analyses or stress scenarios.
For beneficial interests in securitizations that are rated below
“AA” at their acquisition, or that can be contractually prepaid
or otherwise settled in such a way that the Firm would not
recover substantially all of its recorded investment, the Firm
considers an impairment to be other-than-temporary when
there is an adverse change in expected cash flows.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 211
Notes to consolidated financial statements
The Firm recognizes unrealized losses on investment securities
that it intends to sell as OTTI. The Firm does not intend to sell
any of the remaining investment securities with an unrealized
loss in AOCI as of December 31, 2019, and it is not likely that
the Firm will be required to sell these securities before
recovery of their amortized cost basis. Further, the Firm did
not recognize any credit-related OTTI losses during the year
ended December 31, 2019. Based on its assessment, the Firm
believes that the investment securities with an unrealized loss
in AOCI as of December 31, 2019, are not other-than-
temporarily impaired. Investment securities gains and losses
The following table presents realized gains and losses and
OTTI from AFS securities that were recognized in income.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Realized gains $ 650 $ 211 $1,013
Realized losses (392) (606) (1,072)
OTTI losses(a) — — (7)
Net investment securities
gains/(losses) 258 (395) (66)
(a)Represents OTTI losses recognized in income on investment securities the
Firm intends to sell. Excludes realized losses on securities sold of $22
million and $6 million for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017,
respectively, that had been previously reported as an OTTI loss due to the
intention to sell the securities.
Changes in the credit loss component of credit-impaired
debt securities
The cumulative credit loss component, including any changes
therein, of OTTI losses that have been recognized in income
related to AFS securities was not material as of and during the
years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017.
212 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Contractual maturities and yields
The following table presents the amortized cost and estimated fair value at December 31, 2019, of JPMorgan Chase’s investment securities
portfolio by contractual maturity.
By remaining maturity
December 31, 2019 (in millions)Due in one
year or lessDue after one year
through five yearsDue after five years
through 10 years  Due after
10 years (b) Total
Available-for-sale securities   
Mortgage-backed securities   
Amortized cost $ 1 $ 58 $ 11,073  $ 114,516 $ 125,648
Fair value 1 58 11,251  116,985 128,295
Average yield (a) 1.99% 2.78% 2.76% 3.40% 3.34%
U.S. Treasury and government agencies   
Amortized cost $ 10,687 $ 92,805 $ 26,353  $ 9,317 $ 139,162
Fair value 10,700 93,039 26,446  9,251 139,436
Average yield (a) 1.82% 1.84% 1.90% 1.98% 1.86%
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities   
Amortized cost $ 123 $ 193 $ 825  $ 26,552 $ 27,693
Fair value 124 202 883  28,601 29,810
Average yield (a) 4.13% 4.68% 5.28% 4.86% 4.87%
Certificates of deposit   
Amortized cost $ 77 $ — $ — $ — $ 77
Fair value 77 — — — 77
Average yield (a) 0.50% —% —% —% 0.50%
Non-U.S. government debt securities   
Amortized cost $ 6,672 $ 11,544 $ 2,898  $ 313 $ 21,427
Fair value 6,682 11,791 3,001  313 21,787
Average yield (a) 2.17% 1.84% 1.29% 1.67% 1.87%
Corporate debt securities   
Amortized cost $ 205 $ 206 $ 412  $ — $ 823
Fair value 207 212 426  — 845
Average yield (a) 4.49% 4.14% 3.50% —% 3.91%
Asset-backed securities   
Amortized cost $ 17 $ 2,352 $ 7,184  $ 20,923 $ 30,476
Fair value 17 2,353 7,177  20,902 30,449
Average yield (a) 0.62% 2.78% 2.86% 2.77% 2.79%
Total available-for -sale securities   
Amortized cost $ 17,782 $ 107,158 $ 48,745  $ 171,621 $ 345,306
Fair value 17,808 107,655 49,184  176,052 350,699
Average yield (a) 1.99% 1.87% 2.27% 3.47% 2.73%
Held-to-maturity securities   
Mortgage-backed securities   
Amortized Cost $ — $ — $ 5,850  $ 30,673 $ 36,523
Fair value — — 6,114 31,512 37,626
Average yield (a) —% —% 3.06% 3.10% 3.10%
U.S. Treasury and government agencies  
Amortized cost
$ — $ 51 $ — $ — $ 51
Fair value
— 50 — — 50
Average yield (a)
—% 1.47% —% —% 1.47%
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities   
Amortized cost $ — $ — $ 99 $ 4,698 $ 4,797
Fair value — — 106  4,990 5,096
Average yield (a) —% —% 3.91% 4.04% 4.04%
Asset-backed securities   
Amortized cost $ — $ — $ 5,296  $ 873 $ 6,169
Fair value — — 5,296  873 6,169
Average yield (a) —% —% 3.19% 3.11% 3.18%
Total held-to-maturity securities   
Amortized cost $ — $ 51 $ 11,245  $ 36,244 $ 47,540
Fair value — 50 11,516  37,375 48,941
Average yield (a) —% 1.47% 3.13% 3.23% 3.20%
(a)Average yield is computed using the effective yield of each security owned at the end of the period, weighted based on the amortized cost of each security. The effective yield
considers the contractual coupon, amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts, and the effect of related hedging derivatives. Taxable-equivalent amounts are used where
applicable. The effective yield excludes unscheduled principal prepayments; and accordingly, actual maturities of securities may differ from their contractual or expected maturities
as certain securities may be prepaid.
(b)Substantially all of the Firm’s U.S. residential MBS and collateralized mortgage obligations are due in 10 years or more, based on contractual maturity. The estimated weighted-
average life, which reflects anticipated future prepayments, is approximately 6 years for agency residential MBS, 3 years for agency residential collateralized mortgage obligations
and 3 years for nonagency residential collateralized mortgage obligations.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 213
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 11 – Securities financing activities
JPMorgan Chase enters into resale, repurchase, securities
borrowed and securities loaned agreements (collectively,
“securities financing agreements”) primarily to finance the
Firm’s inventory positions, acquire securities to cover short
sales, accommodate customers’ financing needs, settle other
securities obligations and to deploy the Firm’s excess cash.
Securities financing agreements are treated as collateralized
financings on the Firm’s Consolidated balance sheets. Resale
and repurchase agreements are generally carried at the
amounts at which the securities will be subsequently sold or
repurchased. Securities borrowed and securities loaned
agreements are generally carried at the amount of cash
collateral advanced or received. Where appropriate under
applicable accounting guidance, securities financing
agreements with the same counterparty are reported on a net
basis. Refer to Note 1 for further discussion of the offsetting of
assets and liabilities. Fees received and paid in connection with
securities financing agreements are recorded over the life of
the agreement in interest income and interest expense on the
Consolidated statements of income.
The Firm has elected the fair value option for certain securities
financing agreements. Refer to Note 3 for further information
regarding the fair value option. The securities financing
agreements for which the fair value option has been elected are
reported within securities purchased under resale agreements,
securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements, and
securities borrowed on the Consolidated balance sheets.
Generally, for agreements carried at fair value, current-period
interest accruals are recorded within interest income and
interest expense, with changes in fair value reported in
principal transactions revenue. However, for financial
instruments containing embedded derivatives that would be
separately accounted for in accordance with accounting
guidance for hybrid instruments, all changes in fair value,
including any interest elements, are reported in principal
transactions revenue. Securities financing agreements expose the Firm primarily to
credit and liquidity risk. To manage these risks, the Firm
monitors the value of the underlying securities (predominantly
high-quality securities collateral, including government-issued
debt and U.S. GSEs and government agencies MBS) that it has
received from or provided to its counterparties compared to the
value of cash proceeds and exchanged collateral, and either
requests additional collateral or returns securities or collateral
when appropriate. Margin levels are initially established based
upon the counterparty, the type of underlying securities, and
the permissible collateral, and are monitored on an ongoing
basis.
In resale and securities borrowed agreements, the Firm is
exposed to credit risk to the extent that the value of the
securities received is less than initial cash principal advanced
and any collateral amounts exchanged. In repurchase and
securities loaned agreements, credit risk exposure arises to the
extent that the value of underlying securities advanced exceeds
the value of the initial cash principal received, and any
collateral amounts exchanged.
Additionally, the Firm typically enters into master netting
agreements and other similar arrangements with its
counterparties, which provide for the right to liquidate the
underlying securities and any collateral amounts exchanged in
the event of a counterparty default. It is also the Firm’s policy
to take possession, where possible, of the securities underlying
resale and securities borrowed agreements. Refer to Note 29
for further information regarding assets pledged and collateral
received in securities financing agreements.
As a result of the Firm’s credit risk mitigation practices with
respect to resale and securities borrowed agreements as
described above, the Firm did not hold any reserves for credit
impairment with respect to these agreements as of December
31, 2019 and 2018.
214 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
The table below summarizes the gross and net amounts of the Firm’s securities financing agreements, as of December 31, 2019 and
2018. When the Firm has obtained an appropriate legal opinion with respect to a master netting agreement with a counterparty and
where other relevant netting criteria under U.S. GAAP are met, the Firm nets, on the Consolidated balance sheets, the balances
outstanding under its securities financing agreements with the same counterparty. In addition, the Firm exchanges securities and/or
cash collateral with its counterparty to reduce the economic exposure with the counterparty, but such collateral is not eligible for
net Consolidated balance sheet presentation. Where the Firm has obtained an appropriate legal opinion with respect to the
counterparty master netting agreement, such collateral, along with securities financing balances that do not meet all these relevant
netting criteria under U.S. GAAP, is presented in the table below as “Amounts not nettable on the Consolidated balance sheets,”
and reduces the “Net amounts” presented. Where a legal opinion has not been either sought or obtained, the securities financing
balances are presented gross in the “Net amounts” below.
 2019
December 31, (in millions) Gross amountsAmounts netted on
the Consolidated
balance sheetsAmounts presented
on the Consolidated
balance sheetsAmounts not nettable
on the Consolidated
balance sheets(b) Net amounts(c)
Assets  
Securities purchased under resale agreements $ 628,609$ (379,463)$ 249,146$ (233,818)$ 15,328
Securities borrowed 166,718 (26,960) 139,758 (104,990) 34,768
Liabilities  
Securities sold under repurchase agreements $ 555,172$ (379,463)$ 175,709$ (151,566)$ 24,143
Securities loaned and other(a) 36,649 (26,960) 9,689 (9,654) 35
 2018
December 31, (in millions) Gross amountsAmounts netted on
the Consolidated
balance sheetsAmounts presented
on the Consolidated
balance sheetsAmounts not nettable
on the Consolidated
balance sheets(b) Net amounts(c)
Assets  
Securities purchased under resale agreements $ 691,116$ (369,612)$ 321,504$ (308,854)$ 12,650
Securities borrowed 132,955 (20,960) 111,995 (79,747) 32,248
Liabilities  
Securities sold under repurchase agreements $ 541,587$ (369,612)$ 171,975$ (149,125)$ 22,850
Securities loaned and other(a) 33,700 (20,960) 12,740 (12,358) 382
(a)Includes securities-for-securities lending agreements of $3.7 billion and $3.3 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, accounted for at fair value,
where the Firm is acting as lender. In the Consolidated balance sheets, the Firm recognizes the securities received at fair value within other assets and the
obligation to return those securities within accounts payable and other liabilities.
(b)In some cases, collateral exchanged with a counterparty exceeds the net asset or liability balance with that counterparty. In such cases, the amounts reported in
this column are limited to the related net asset or liability with that counterparty.
(c)Includes securities financing agreements that provide collateral rights, but where an appropriate legal opinion with respect to the master netting agreement has
not been either sought or obtained. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, included $11.0 billion and $7.9 billion, respectively, of securities purchased under resale
agreements; $31.9 billion and $30.3 billion, respectively, of securities borrowed; $22.7 billion and $21.5 billion, respectively, of securities sold under repurchase
agreements; and $7 million and $25 million, respectively, of securities loaned and other.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 215
Notes to consolidated financial statements
The tables below present as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 the types of financial assets pledged in securities financing agreements
and the remaining contractual maturity of the securities financing agreements.
 Gross liability balance
 2019 2018
December 31, (in millions)Securities sold
under repurchase
agreements  Securities loaned
and otherSecurities sold
under repurchase
agreementsSecurities loaned
and other
Mortgage-backed securities:     
U.S. GSEs and government agencies $ 34,119 $ — $ 34,311(a) $ —
Residential - nonagency 1,239 — 2,165 —
Commercial - nonagency 1,612 — 1,390 —
U.S. Treasury, GSEs and government agencies 334,398 29 317,578(a) 69
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 1,181 — 1,150 —
Non-U.S. government debt 145,548 1,528 154,900 4,313
Corporate debt securities 13,826 1,580 13,898 428
Asset-backed securities 1,794 — 3,867 —
Equity securities 21,455 33,512 12,328 28,890
Total $ 555,172 $ 36,649 $ 541,587 $ 33,700
(a)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
 Remaining contractual maturity of the agreements
 
Overnight and
continuous  
Greater than
90 days 
2019 (in millions) Up to 30 days 30 – 90 days Total
Total securities sold under repurchase agreements $ 225,134 $ 199,870 $ 57,305$ 72,863$ 555,172
Total securities loaned and other 32,028 1,706 937 1,978 36,649
 Remaining contractual maturity of the agreements
 
Overnight and
continuous  
Greater than
90 days 
2018 (in millions) Up to 30 days 30 – 90 days Total
Total securities sold under repurchase agreements $ 247,579 $ 174,971 $ 71,637$ 47,400$ 541,587
Total securities loaned and other 28,402 997 2,132 2,169 33,700
Transfers not qualifying for sale accounting
At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Firm held $743 million and $2.1 billion, respectively, of financial assets for which the rights
have been transferred to third parties; however, the transfers did not qualify as a sale in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These
transfers have been recognized as collateralized financing transactions. The transferred assets are recorded in trading assets and
loans, and the corresponding liabilities are recorded predominantly in short-term borrowings on the Consolidated balance sheets.
The prior period amount has been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
216 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Note 12 – Loans
Loan accounting framework
The accounting for a loan depends on management’s strategy
for the loan, and on whether the loan was credit-impaired at
the date of acquisition. The Firm accounts for loans based on
the following categories:
•Originated or purchased loans held-for-investment (i.e.,
“retained”), other than PCI loans
•Loans held-for-sale
•Loans at fair value
•PCI loans held-for-investment
The following provides a detailed accounting discussion of
these loan categories:
Loans held-for-investment (other than PCI loans)
Originated or purchased loans held-for-investment, other than
PCI loans, are recorded at the principal amount outstanding,
net of the following: charge-offs; interest applied to principal
(for loans accounted for on the cost recovery method);
unamortized discounts and premiums; and net deferred loan
fees or costs. Credit card loans also include billed finance
charges and fees net of an allowance for uncollectible
amounts.
Interest income
Interest income on performing loans held-for-investment, other
than PCI loans, is accrued and recognized as interest income at
the contractual rate of interest. Purchase price discounts or
premiums, as well as net deferred loan fees or costs, are
amortized into interest income over the contractual life of the
loan as an adjustment of yield.
Nonaccrual loans
Nonaccrual loans are those on which the accrual of interest has
been suspended. Loans (other than credit card loans and
certain consumer loans insured by U.S. government agencies)
are placed on nonaccrual status and considered nonperforming
when full payment of principal and interest is not expected,
regardless of delinquency status, or when principal and interest
has been in default for a period of 90 days or more, unless the
loan is both well-secured and in the process of collection. A
loan is determined to be past due when the minimum payment
is not received from the borrower by the contractually
specified due date or for certain loans (e.g., residential real
estate loans), when a monthly payment is due and unpaid for
30 days or more. Finally, collateral-dependent loans are
typically maintained on nonaccrual status.
On the date a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, all interest
accrued but not collected is reversed against interest income.
In addition, the amortization of deferred amounts is suspended.
Interest income on nonaccrual loans may be recognized as cash
interest payments are received (i.e., on a cash basis) if the
recorded loan balance is deemed fully collectible; however, if
there is doubt regarding the ultimate collectibility of the
recorded loan balance, all interest cash receipts are applied to
reduce the carrying value of the loan (the cost recovery method). For
consumer loans, application of this policy typically results in
the Firm recognizing interest income on nonaccrual consumer
loans on a cash basis.
A loan may be returned to accrual status when repayment is
reasonably assured and there has been demonstrated
performance under the terms of the loan or, if applicable, the
terms of the restructured loan.
As permitted by regulatory guidance, credit card loans are
generally exempt from being placed on nonaccrual status;
accordingly, interest and fees related to credit card loans
continue to accrue until the loan is charged off or paid in full.
The Firm separately establishes an allowance, which reduces
loans and is charged to interest income, for the estimated
uncollectible portion of accrued and billed interest and fee
income on credit card loans.
Allowance for loan losses
The allowance for loan losses represents the estimated
probable credit losses inherent in the held-for-investment loan
portfolio at the balance sheet date and is recognized on the
balance sheet as a contra asset, which brings the recorded
investment to the net carrying value. Changes in the allowance
for loan losses are recorded in the provision for credit losses on
the Firm’s Consolidated statements of income. Refer to Note
13 for further information on the Firm’s accounting policies
for the allowance for loan losses.
Charge-offs
Consumer loans, other than risk-rated business banking and
auto loans, and PCI loans, are generally charged off or charged
down to the net realizable value of the underlying collateral
(i.e., fair value less costs to sell), with an offset to the
allowance for loan losses, upon reaching specified stages of
delinquency in accordance with standards established by the
FFIEC. Residential real estate loans and non-modified credit
card loans are generally charged off no later than 180 days past
due. Scored auto and modified credit card loans are charged
off no later than 120 days past due.
Certain consumer loans will be charged off or charged down to
their net realizable value earlier than the FFIEC charge-off
standards in certain circumstances as follows:
•Loans modified in a TDR that are determined to be
collateral-dependent.
•Loans to borrowers who have experienced an event that
suggests a loss is either known or highly certain are subject
to accelerated charge-off standards (e.g., residential real
estate and auto loans are charged off within 60 days of
receiving notification of a bankruptcy filing).
•Auto loans upon repossession of the automobile.
Other than in certain limited circumstances, the Firm typically
does not recognize charge-offs on government-guaranteed
loans.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 217
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Wholesale loans, risk-rated business banking loans and risk-
rated auto loans are charged off when it is highly certain that a
loss has been realized, including situations where a loan is
determined to be both impaired and collateral-dependent. The
determination of whether to recognize a charge-off includes
many factors, including the prioritization of the Firm’s claim in
bankruptcy, expectations of the workout/restructuring of the
loan and valuation of the borrower’s equity or the loan
collateral.
When a loan is charged down to the estimated net realizable
value, the determination of the fair value of the collateral
depends on the type of collateral (e.g., securities, real estate).
In cases where the collateral is in the form of liquid securities,
the fair value is based on quoted market prices or broker
quotes. For illiquid securities or other financial assets, the fair
value of the collateral is generally estimated using a discounted
cash flow model.
For residential real estate loans, collateral values are based
upon external valuation sources. When it becomes likely that a
borrower is either unable or unwilling to pay, the Firm utilizes
a broker’s price opinion, appraisal and/or an automated
valuation model of the home based on an exterior-only
valuation (“exterior opinions”), which is then updated at least
every twelve months, or more frequently depending on various
market factors. As soon as practicable after the Firm receives
the property in satisfaction of a debt (e.g., by taking legal title
or physical possession), the Firm generally obtains an
appraisal based on an inspection that includes the interior of
the home (“interior appraisals”). Exterior opinions and interior
appraisals are discounted based upon the Firm’s experience
with actual liquidation values as compared with the estimated
values provided by exterior opinions and interior appraisals,
considering state-specific factors.
For commercial real estate loans, collateral values are
generally based on appraisals from internal and external
valuation sources. Collateral values are typically updated every
six to twelve months, either by obtaining a new appraisal or by
performing an internal analysis, in accordance with the Firm’s
policies. The Firm also considers both borrower- and market-
specific factors, which may result in obtaining appraisal
updates or broker price opinions at more frequent intervals. Loans held-for-sale
Loans held-for-sale are measured at the lower of cost or fair
value, with valuation changes recorded in noninterest revenue.
For consumer loans, the valuation is performed on a portfolio
basis. For wholesale loans, the valuation is performed on an
individual loan basis.
Interest income on loans held-for-sale is accrued and
recognized based on the contractual rate of interest.
Loan origination fees or costs and purchase price discounts or
premiums are deferred in a contra loan account until the
related loan is sold. The deferred fees or costs and discounts or
premiums are an adjustment to the basis of the loan and
therefore are included in the periodic determination of the
lower of cost or fair value adjustments and/or the gain or loss
recognized at the time of sale.
Because these loans are recognized at the lower of cost or fair
value, the Firm’s allowance for loan losses and charge-off
policies do not apply to these loans. However, loans held-for-
sale are subject to the nonaccrual policies described above.
Loans at fair value
Loans used in a market-making strategy or risk managed on a
fair value basis are measured at fair value, with changes in fair
value recorded in noninterest revenue.
Interest income on these loans is accrued and recognized based
on the contractual rate of interest. Changes in fair value are
recognized in noninterest revenue. Loan origination fees are
recognized upfront in noninterest revenue. Loan origination
costs are recognized in the associated expense category as
incurred.
Because these loans are recognized at fair value, the Firm’s
allowance for loan losses and charge-off policies do not apply
to these loans. However, loans at fair value are subject to the
nonaccrual policies described above.
Refer to Note 3 for further information on the Firm’s elections
of fair value accounting under the fair value option. Refer to
Note 2 and Note 3 for further information on loans carried at
fair value and classified as trading assets.
PCI loans
PCI loans held-for-investment are initially measured at fair
value. PCI loans have evidence of credit deterioration since the
loan’s origination date and therefore it is probable, at
acquisition, that all contractually required payments will not be
collected. Because PCI loans are initially measured at fair
value, which includes an estimate of future credit losses, no
allowance for loan losses related to PCI loans is recorded at the
acquisition date. Refer to page 229 of this Note for information
on accounting for PCI loans subsequent to their acquisition.
218 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Loan classification changes
Loans in the held-for-investment portfolio that management
decides to sell are transferred to the held-for-sale portfolio at
the lower of cost or fair value on the date of transfer. Credit-
related losses are charged against the allowance for loan
losses; non-credit related losses such as those due to changes
in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates are
recognized in noninterest revenue.
In the event that management decides to retain a loan in the
held-for-sale portfolio, the loan is transferred to the held-for-
investment portfolio at the lower of cost or fair value on the
date of transfer. These loans are subsequently assessed for
impairment based on the Firm’s allowance methodology. Refer
to Note 13 for a further discussion of the methodologies used
in establishing the Firm’s allowance for loan losses.
Loan modifications
The Firm seeks to modify certain loans in conjunction with its
loss-mitigation activities. Through the modification, JPMorgan
Chase grants one or more concessions to a borrower who is
experiencing financial difficulty in order to minimize the
Firm’s economic loss and avoid foreclosure or repossession of
the collateral, and to ultimately maximize payments received
by the Firm from the borrower. The concessions granted vary
by program and by borrower-specific characteristics, and may
include interest rate reductions, term extensions, payment
deferrals, principal forgiveness, or the acceptance of equity or
other assets in lieu of payments.
Such modifications are accounted for and reported as TDRs. A
loan that has been modified in a TDR is generally considered
to be impaired until it matures, is repaid, or is otherwise
liquidated, regardless of whether the borrower performs under
the modified terms. In certain limited cases, the effective
interest rate applicable to the modified loan is at or above the
current market rate at the time of the restructuring. In such
circumstances, and assuming that the loan subsequently
performs under its modified terms and the Firm expects to
collect all contractual principal and interest cash flows, the
loan is disclosed as impaired and as a TDR only during the
year of the modification; in subsequent years, the loan is not
disclosed as an impaired loan or as a TDR so long as
repayment of the restructured loan under its modified terms is
reasonably assured. Loans, except for credit card loans, modified in a TDR are
generally placed on nonaccrual status, although in many cases
such loans were already on nonaccrual status prior to
modification. These loans may be returned to performing
status (the accrual of interest is resumed) if the following
criteria are met: (i) the borrower has performed under the
modified terms for a minimum of six months and/or six
payments, and (ii) the Firm has an expectation that repayment
of the modified loan is reasonably assured based on, for
example, the borrower’s debt capacity and level of future
earnings, collateral values, LTV ratios, and other current
market considerations. In certain limited and well-defined
circumstances in which the loan is current at the modification
date, such loans are not placed on nonaccrual status at the time
of modification.
Because loans modified in TDRs are considered to be
impaired, these loans are measured for impairment using the
Firm’s established asset-specific allowance methodology,
which considers the expected re-default rates for the modified
loans. A loan modified in a TDR generally remains subject to
the asset-specific allowance methodology throughout its
remaining life, regardless of whether the loan is performing
and has been returned to accrual status and/or the loan has
been removed from the impaired loans disclosures (i.e., loans
restructured at market rates). Refer to Note 13 for further
discussion of the methodology used to estimate the Firm’s
asset-specific allowance.
Foreclosed property
The Firm acquires property from borrowers through loan
restructurings, workouts, and foreclosures. Property acquired
may include real property (e.g., residential real estate, land,
and buildings) and commercial and personal property (e.g.,
automobiles, aircraft, railcars, and ships).
The Firm recognizes foreclosed property upon receiving assets
in satisfaction of a loan (e.g., by taking legal title or physical
possession). For loans collateralized by real property, the Firm
generally recognizes the asset received at foreclosure sale or
upon the execution of a deed in lieu of foreclosure transaction
with the borrower. Foreclosed assets are reported in other
assets on the Consolidated balance sheets and initially
recognized at fair value less costs to sell. Each quarter the fair
value of the acquired property is reviewed and adjusted, if
necessary, to the lower of cost or fair value. Subsequent
adjustments to fair value are charged/credited to noninterest
revenue. Operating expense, such as real estate taxes and
maintenance, are charged to other expense.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 219
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Loan portfolio
The Firm’s loan portfolio is divided into three portfolio segments, which are the same segments used by the Firm to determine the
allowance for loan losses: Consumer, excluding credit card; Credit card; and Wholesale. Within each portfolio segment the Firm
monitors and assesses the credit risk in the following classes of loans, based on the risk characteristics of each loan class.
Consumer, excluding
credit card(a)Credit cardWholesale(f)
Residential real estate – excluding PCI
• Residential mortgage (b)
• Home equity (c)
Other consumer loans (d)
• Auto
• Consumer & Business Banking (e)
Residential real estate – PCI
• Home equity
• Prime mortgage
• Subprime mortgage
• Option ARMs• Credit card loans • Commercial and industrial
• Real estate
• Financial institutions
• Governments & Agencies
• Other (g)
(a)Includes loans held in CCB, scored prime mortgage and scored home equity loans held in AWM and scored prime mortgage loans held in Corporate.
(b)Predominantly includes prime loans (including option ARMs).
(c)Includes senior and junior lien home equity loans.
(d)Includes certain business banking and auto dealer risk-rated loans for which the wholesale methodology is applied for determining the allowance for loan losses;
these loans are managed by CCB, and therefore, for consistency in presentation, are included with the other consumer loan classes.
(e)Predominantly includes Business Banking loans.
(f)Includes loans held in CIB, CB, AWM and Corporate. Excludes scored prime mortgage and scored home equity loans held in AWM and scored prime mortgage
loans held in Corporate. Classes are internally defined and may not align with regulatory definitions.
(g)Includes loans to: individuals and individual entities (predominantly consists of Wealth Management clients within AWM and includes loans to personal
investment companies and personal and testamentary trusts), SPEs and Private education and civic organizations. Refer to Note 14 for more information on
SPEs.
The following tables summarize the Firm’s loan balances by portfolio segment.
December 31, 2019
Consumer, excluding
credit card Credit card(a) Wholesale Total (in millions)
Retained $332,038  $ 168,924  $ 444,639  $945,601(b) 
Held-for-sale 3,002  —  4,062  7,064
At fair value —  —  7,104  7,104
Total $335,040  $ 168,924  $ 455,805  $959,769
          
December 31, 2018
Consumer, excluding
credit card  Credit card(a)  Wholesale  Total (in millions)
Retained $373,637  $ 156,616  $ 439,162  $969,415(b) 
Held-for-sale 95  16  11,877  11,988
At fair value —  —  3,151  3,151
Total $373,732  $ 156,632  $ 454,190  $984,554
(a)Includes accrued interest and fees net of an allowance for the uncollectible portion of accrued interest and fee income.
(b)Loans (other than PCI loans and those for which the fair value option has been elected) are presented net of unamortized discounts and premiums and net
deferred loan fees or costs. These amounts were not material as of December 31, 2019 and 2018.
220 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
The following tables provide information about the carrying value of retained loans purchased, sold and reclassified to held-for-sale
during the periods indicated. Reclassifications of loans to held-for sale are non-cash transactions. The Firm manages its exposure to
credit risk on an ongoing basis. Selling loans is one way that the Firm reduces its credit exposures. Loans that were reclassified to
held-for-sale and sold in a subsequent period are excluded from the sales line of this table.
  2019
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)Consumer, excluding
credit card Credit card Wholesale Total
Purchases  $ 1,282(a)(b) $ —  $ 1,291  $ 2,573
Sales  30,484 —  23,435  53,919
Retained loans reclassified to held-for-sale  9,188 —  2,371  11,559
  2018
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)Consumer, excluding
credit card Credit card Wholesale Total
Purchases  $ 2,543(a)(b) $ —  $ 2,354  $ 4,897
Sales  9,984 —  16,741  26,725
Retained loans reclassified to held-for-sale  36 —  2,276  2,312
  2017
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)Consumer, excluding
credit card Credit card Wholesale Total
Purchases  $ 3,461(a)(b) $ —  $ 1,799  $ 5,260
Sales  3,405 —  11,063  14,468
Retained loans reclassified to held-for-sale  6,340(c)
—  1,229  7,569
(a)Purchases predominantly represent the Firm’s voluntary repurchase of certain delinquent loans from loan pools as permitted by Government National Mortgage
Association (“Ginnie Mae”) guidelines. The Firm typically elects to repurchase these delinquent loans as it continues to service them and/or manage the
foreclosure process in accordance with applicable requirements of Ginnie Mae, FHA, RHS, and/or VA.
(b)Excludes purchases of retained loans sourced through the correspondent origination channel and underwritten in accordance with the Firm’s standards. Such
purchases were $16.6 billion, $18.6 billion and $23.5 billion for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
(c)Includes the Firm’s student loan portfolio which was sold in 2017.
Gains and losses on sales of loans
Net gains on sales of loans (including adjustments to record loans held-for-sale at the lower of cost or fair value) recognized in
noninterest revenue was $394 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Gains and losses on sales of loans were not material
for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. In addition, the sale of loans may also result in write downs, recoveries or
changes in the allowance recognized in the provision for credit losses.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 221
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Consumer , excluding cr edit card, loan portfolio
Consumer loans, excluding credit card loans, consist primarily
of residential mortgages, home equity loans and lines of credit,
auto loans and consumer and business banking loans, with a
focus on serving the prime consumer credit market. The
portfolio also includes home equity loans secured by junior
liens, prime mortgage loans with an interest-only payment
period, and certain payment-option loans that may result in
negative amortization.
The following table provides information about retained
consumer loans, excluding credit card, by class.
December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018
Residential real estate – excluding PCI
Residential mortgage $ 199,037$ 231,078
Home equity 23,917 28,340
Other consumer loans
Auto 61,522 63,573
Consumer & Business Banking 27,199 26,612
Residential real estate – PCI
Home equity 7,377 8,963
Prime mortgage 3,965 4,690
Subprime mortgage 1,740 1,945
Option ARMs 7,281 8,436
Total retained loans $ 332,038$ 373,637 Delinquency rates are a primary credit quality indicator for
consumer loans. Loans that are more than 30 days past due
provide an early warning of borrowers who may be
experiencing financial difficulties and/or who may be unable
or unwilling to repay the loan. As the loan continues to age, it
becomes more clear whether the borrower is likely either
unable or unwilling to pay. In the case of residential real estate
loans, late-stage delinquencies (greater than 150 days past due)
are a strong indicator of loans that will ultimately result in a
foreclosure or similar liquidation transaction. In addition to
delinquency rates, other credit quality indicators for consumer
loans vary based on the class of loan, as follows:
•For residential real estate loans, including both non-PCI
and PCI portfolios, the current estimated LTV ratio, or the
combined LTV ratio in the case of junior lien loans, is an
indicator of the potential loss severity in the event of
default. Additionally, LTV or combined LTV ratios can
provide insight into a borrower’s continued willingness to
pay, as the delinquency rate of high-LTV loans tends to be
greater than that for loans where the borrower has equity in
the collateral. The geographic distribution of the loan
collateral also provides insight as to the credit quality of the
portfolio, as factors such as the regional economy, home
price changes and specific events such as natural disasters,
will affect credit quality. The borrower’s current or
“refreshed” FICO score is a secondary credit quality
indicator for certain loans, as FICO scores are an indication
of the borrower’s credit payment history. Thus, a loan to a
borrower with a low FICO score (less than 660 ) is
considered to be of higher risk than a loan to a borrower
with a higher FICO score. Further, a loan to a borrower
with a high LTV ratio and a low FICO score is at greater
risk of default than a loan to a borrower that has both a high
LTV ratio and a high FICO score.
•For scored auto and scored business banking loans,
geographic distribution is an indicator of the credit
performance of the portfolio. Similar to residential real
estate loans, geographic distribution provides insights into
the portfolio performance based on regional economic
activity and events.
•Risk-rated business banking and auto loans are similar to
wholesale loans in that the primary credit quality indicators
are the internal risk ratings that are assigned to the loan and
whether the loans are considered to be criticized and/or
nonaccrual. Risk ratings are reviewed on a regular and
ongoing basis by Credit Risk Management and are adjusted
as necessary for updated information about borrowers’
ability to fulfill their obligations. Refer to page 234 of this
Note for further information about risk-rated wholesale
loan credit quality indicators.
222 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Residential real estate — excluding PCI loans
The following table provides information by class for retained residential real estate — excluding PCI loans.
Residential real estate – excluding PCI loans     
December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)Residential mortgage  Home equity  Total residential real estate –
excluding PCI
2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
Loan delinquency (a)      
Current $198,024 $225,899  $23,385 $ 27,61 1 $221,409 $253,510
30–149 days past due 604 2,763  336 453  940 3,216
150 or more days past due 409 2,416  196 276  605 2,692
Total r etained loans $199,037 $231,078  $23,917 $28,340  $222,954 $259,418
% of 30+ days past due to total retained loans (b) 0.49% 0.48% 2.22% 2.57% 0.67% 0.71%
90 or more days past due and government guarantee d(c) $ 38 $ 2,541  — — $ 38 $ 2,541
Nonaccrual loans 1,618 1,765  1,162 1,323  2,780 3,088
Curr ent estimated L TV ratios (d)(e)      
Greater than 125% and refreshed FICO scores:      
Equal to or greater than 660 $ 18 $ 25 $ 4 $ 6 $ 22 $ 31
Less than 660 8 13 1 1 9 14
101% to 125% and refreshed FICO scores:      
Equal to or greater than 660 31 37 56 111 87 148
Less than 660 35 53 19 38 54 91
80% to 100% and refreshed FICO scores:      
Equal to or greater than 660 5,013 3,977  606 986  5,619 4,963
Less than 660 207 281  191 326  398 607
Less than 80% and refreshed FICO scores:      
Equal to or greater than 660 186,972 212,505  19,597 22,632  206,569 235,137
Less than 660 6,001 6,457  2,776 3,355  8,777 9,812
No FICO/L TV available 689 813  667 885  1,356 1,698
U.S. government-guaranteed 63 6,917  — — 63 6,917
Total r etained loans $199,037 $231,078  $23,917 $28,340  $222,954 $259,418
Geographic r egion (f)      
California $ 66,278 $ 74,759  $ 4,831 $ 5,695  $ 71,109 $ 80,454
New York 25,706 28,847  4,885 5,769  30,591 34,616
Illinois 13,204 15,249  1,788 2,131  14,992 17,380
Texas 12,601 13,769  1,599 1,819  14,200 15,588
Florida 10,454 10,704  1,325 1,575  11,779 12,279
Washington 7,708 8,304  720 869  8,428 9,173
Colorado 7,777 8,140  444 521  8,221 8,661
New Jersey 5,792 7,302  1,394 1,642  7,186 8,944
Massachusetts 5,596 6,574  202 236  5,798 6,810
Arizona 3,929 4,434  932 1,158  4,861 5,592
All other (g) 39,992 52,996  5,797 6,925  45,789 59,921
Total r etained loans $199,037 $231,078  $23,917 $28,340  $222,954 $259,418
(a)Individual delinquency classifications include mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies as follows: current included $17 million  and $2.8 billion ; 30–149 days
past due included $20 million  and $2.1 billion ; and 150 or more days past due included $26 million  and $2.0 billion  at December 31, 2019  and 2018 , respectively .
(b)At December 31, 2019  and 2018 , residential mortgage loans excluded mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $46 million  and $4.1 billion , respectively ,
that are 30 or more days past due. These amounts have been excluded based upon the government guarantee.
(c)These balances are excluded from nonaccrual loans as the loans are guaranteed by U.S government agencies. Typically the principal balance of the loans is insured and
interest is guaranteed at a specified reimbursement rate subject to meeting agreed-upon servicing guidelines. At December 31, 2019  and 2018 , these balances included $34
million  and $999 million , respectively , of loans that are no longer accruing interest based on the agreed-upon servicing guidelines. For the remaining balance, interest is
being accrued at the guaranteed reimbursement rate. There were no loans that were not guaranteed by U.S. government agencies that are 90 or more days past due and still
accruing interest at December 31, 2019  and 2018 .
(d)Represents the aggregate unpaid principal balance of loans divided by the estimated current property value. Current property values are estimated, at a minimum,
quarterly , based on home valuation models using nationally recognized home price index valuation estimates incorporating actual data to the extent available and
forecasted data where actual data is not available. These property values do not represent actual appraised loan level collateral values; as such, the resulting ratios are
necessarily imprecise and should be viewed as estimates. Current estimated combined L TV for junior lien home equity loans considers all available lien positions, as well
as unused lines, related to the property .
(e)Refreshed FICO scores represent each borrower ’s most recent credit score, which is obtained by the Firm on at least a quarterly basis.
(f)The geographic regions presented in the table are ordered based on the magnitude of the corresponding loan balances at December 31, 2019 .
(g)At December 31, 2019  and 2018 , included mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $63 million  and $6.9 billion , respectively . These amounts have been
excluded from the geographic regions presented based upon the government guarantee.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 223
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Approximately 37% of the home equity portfolio are senior lien loans; the remaining balance are junior lien HELOANs or
HELOCs. The following table provides the Firm’s delinquency statistics for junior lien home equity loans and lines as of
December 31, 2019 and 2018.
 Total loans  Total 30+ day delinquency rate
December 31, (in millions except ratios) 2019 2018  2019 2018
HELOCs:(a)  
Within the revolving period(b) $ 5,488$ 5,608 0.35% 0.25%
Beyond the revolving period 8,724 11,286 2.48 2.80
HELOANs 754 1,030 2.52 2.82
Total $ 14,966$ 17,924 1.70% 2.00%
(a) These HELOCs are predominantly revolving loans for a 10-year period, after which time the HELOC converts to a loan with a 20-year amortization period, but
also include HELOCs that allow interest-only payments beyond the revolving period.
(b) The Firm manages the risk of HELOCs during their revolving period by closing or reducing the undrawn line to the extent permitted by law when borrowers are
experiencing financial difficulty.
HELOCs beyond the revolving period and HELOANs have higher delinquency rates than HELOCs within the revolving period.
That is primarily because the fully-amortizing payment that is generally required for those products is higher than the minimum
payment options available for HELOCs within the revolving period. The higher delinquency rates associated with amortizing
HELOCs and HELOANs are factored into the Firm’s allowance for loan losses.
Impaired loans
The table below provides information about the Firm’s residential real estate impaired loans, excluding PCI loans. These loans are
considered to be impaired as they have been modified in a TDR. All impaired loans are evaluated for an asset-specific allowance as
described in Note 13.
December 31,
(in millions)Residential mortgage  Home equityTotal residential real estate
– excluding PCI
2019 2018  2019 2018 2019 2018
Impair ed loans      
With an allowance $ 2,851 $ 3,381  $ 1,042 $ 1,151 $ 3,893 $ 4,532
Without an allowance (a) 1,154 1,184  879 907 2,033 2,091
Total impair ed loans (b)(c) $ 4,005 $ 4,565  $ 1,921 $ 2,058 $ 5,926 $ 6,623
Allowance for loan losses related to impaired loans $ 52 $ 88 $ 13 $ 45 $ 65 $ 133
Unpaid principal balance of impaired loans (d) 5,438 6,207  3,301 3,531 8,739 9,738
Impaired loans on nonaccrual status (e) 1,367 1,459  965 963 2,332 2,422
(a)Represents collateral-dependent residential real estate loans that are charged off to the fair value of the underlying collateral less costs to sell. The Firm reports,
in accordance with regulatory guidance, residential real estate loans that have been discharged under Chapter 7 bankruptcy and not reaffirmed by the borrower
(“Chapter 7 loans”) as collateral-dependent nonaccrual TDRs, regardless of their delinquency status. At December 31, 2019, Chapter 7 residential real estate
loans included approximately 9% of residential mortgages and approximately 7% of home equity that were 30 days or more past due.
(b)At December 31, 2019 and 2018, $14 million and $4.1 billion, respectively, of loans modified subsequent to repurchase from Ginnie Mae in accordance with the
standards of the appropriate government agency (i.e., FHA, VA, RHS) are not included in the table above. When such loans perform subsequent to modification
in accordance with Ginnie Mae guidelines, they are generally sold back into Ginnie Mae loan pools. Modified loans that do not re-perform become subject to
foreclosure.
(c)Predominantly all impaired loans in the table above are in the U.S.
(d)Represents the contractual amount of principal owed at December 31, 2019 and 2018. The unpaid principal balance differs from the impaired loan balances due
to various factors including charge-offs, net deferred loan fees or costs, and unamortized discounts or premiums on purchased loans.
(e)As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, nonaccrual loans included $1.9 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, of TDRs for which the borrowers were less than 90
days past due. Refer to the Loan accounting framework on pages 217–219 of this Note for additional information about loans modified in a TDR that are on
nonaccrual status.
224 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
The following table presents average impaired loans and the related interest income reported by the Firm.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)Average impaired loans  Interest income on
impaired loans (a)  Interest income on impaired
loans on a cash basis (a)
2019 2018 2017  2019 2018 2017  2019 2018 2017
Residential mortgage $ 4,307 $ 5,082 $ 5,797  $ 224 $ 257 $ 287 $ 68 $ 75 $ 75
Home equity 2,007 2,123 2,222  132 131 127 83 84 80
Total r esidential r eal estate – excluding
PCI $ 6,314 $ 7,205 $ 8,019  $ 356 $ 388 $ 414 $ 151 $ 159 $ 155
(a)Generally, interest income on loans modified in TDRs is recognized on a cash basis until the borrower has made a minimum of six payments under the new
terms, unless the loan is deemed to be collateral-dependent.
Loan modifications
Modifications of residential real estate loans, excluding PCI
loans, are generally accounted for and reported as TDRs. There
were no additional commitments to lend to borrowers whose
residential real estate loans, excluding PCI loans, have been
modified in TDRs. The following table presents new TDRs reported by the Firm.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Residential mortgage $ 234 $ 401 $ 373
Home equity 256 335 383
Total r esidential r eal estate – excluding PCI $ 490 $ 736 $ 756
Nature and extent of modifications
The Firm’s proprietary modification programs as well as government programs, including U.S. GSEs, generally provide various
concessions to financially troubled borrowers including, but not limited to, interest rate reductions, term or payment extensions and
deferral of principal and/or interest payments that would otherwise have been required under the terms of the original agreement.
The following table provides information about how residential real estate loans, excluding PCI loans, were modified under the
Firm’s loss mitigation programs described above during the periods presented. This table excludes Chapter 7 loans where the sole
concession granted is the discharge of debt.
Year ended December 31,Residential mortgage Home equityTotal residential real estate
 – excluding PCI  
2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018  2017  
Number of loans approved for a trial
modification 2,105 2,570 1,283 3,767 4,605 (c) 5,765 (c) 5,872 7,175 (c) 7,048 (c) 
Number of loans permanently modified 1,448 2,907 2,628 3,470 4,946 5,624 4,918 7,853  8,252  
Concession granted: (a)       
Interest rate reduction 66% 40% 63% 81% 62% 59% 77% 54% 60% 
Term or payment extension 90 55 72 64 66 69 71 62 70 
Principal and/or interest deferred 26 44 15 7 20 10 13 29 12 
Principal for giveness 6 8 16 5 7 13 5 7 14 
Other (b) 45 38 33 70 58 31 63 51 32 
(a)Represents concessions granted in permanent modifications as a percentage of the number of loans permanently modified. The sum of the percentages exceeds
100% because predominantly all of the modifications include more than one type of concession. Concessions offered on trial modifications are generally
consistent with those granted on permanent modifications.
(b)Includes variable interest rate to fixed interest rate modifications for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. Also includes forbearances that meet
the definition of a TDR for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. Forbearances suspend or reduce monthly payments for a specific period of time to
address a temporary hardship.
(c)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation. This revision also impacted home equity impaired loans and new
TDRs in this note, as well as loans by impairment methodology in Note 13.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 225
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Financial effects of modifications and redefaults
The following table provides information about the financial effects of the various concessions granted in modifications of
residential real estate loans, excluding PCI, under the loss mitigation programs described above and about redefaults of certain
loans modified in TDRs for the periods presented. The following table presents only the financial effects of permanent
modifications and does not include temporary concessions offered through trial modifications. This table also excludes Chapter 7
loans where the sole concession granted is the discharge of debt.
Year ended
December 31,
(in millions, except weighted-average
data)Residential mortgage 
Home equity 
Total residential real estate – excluding
PCI   
2019 2018 2017  2019 2018 2017  2019 2018 2017
Weighted-average interest rate of loans
with interest rate reductions – before
TDR 5.88% 5.65% 5.15% 5.53% 5.39% 4.94% 5.68% 5.50% 5.06%
Weighted-average interest rate of loans
with interest rate reductions – after
TDR 4.21 3.80 2.99  3.53 3.46 2.64  3.81 3.60 2.83
Weighted-average remaining contractual
term (in years) of loans with term or
payment extensions – before TDR 21 24 24 19 19 21 20 21 23
Weighted-average remaining contractual
term (in years) of loans with term or
payment extensions – after TDR 39 38 38 40 39 39 39 38 38
Char ge-of fs recognized upon permanent
modification $ 1 $ 1$ 2 $ — $ 1$ 1 $ 1 $ 2$ 3
Principal deferred 15 21 12 4 9 10 19 30 22
Principal for given 4 10 20 3 7 13 7 17 33
Balance of loans that redefaulted within
one year of permanent modification (a)$ 107 $ 97 $ 124  $ 59 $ 64 $ 56 $ 166 $ 161 $ 180
(a)Represents loans permanently modified in TDRs that experienced a payment default in the periods presented, and for which the payment default occurred within
one year of the modification. The dollar amounts presented represent the balance of such loans at the end of the reporting period in which such loans defaulted.
For residential real estate loans modified in TDRs, payment default is deemed to occur when the loan becomes two contractual payments past due. In the event
that a modified loan redefaults, it is probable that the loan will ultimately be liquidated through foreclosure or another similar type of liquidation transaction.
Redefaults of loans modified within the last 12 months may not be representative of ultimate redefault levels.
At December 31, 2019, the weighted-average estimated
remaining lives of residential real estate loans, excluding PCI
loans, permanently modified in TDRs were 9 years for
residential mortgage and 8 years for home equity. The
estimated remaining lives of these loans reflect estimated
prepayments, both voluntary and involuntary (i.e., foreclosures
and other forced liquidations). Active and suspended foreclosure
At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Firm had non-PCI
residential real estate loans, excluding those insured by U.S.
government agencies, with a carrying value of $529 million
and $653 million, respectively, that were not included in REO,
but were in the process of active or suspended foreclosure.
226 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Other consumer loans
The table below provides information for other consumer retained loan classes, including auto and business banking loans.
December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)Auto  Consumer &
Business Banking  Total other consumer
2019 2018  2019 2018  2019 2018
Loan delinquency      
Current $ 60,944 $ 62,984  $ 26,842 $ 26,249  $ 87,786 $ 89,233
30–1 19 days past due 578 589  240 252  818 841
120 or more days past due — — 117 111 117 111
Total r etained loans $ 61,522 $ 63,573  $ 27,199 $ 26,612  $ 88,721 $ 90,185
% of 30+ days past due to total retained loans 0.94% 0.93% 1.31% 1.36% 1.05% 1.06%
Nonaccrual loans (a) 113 128  247 245  360 373
Geographic r egion (b)  
California $ 8,081 $ 8,330  $ 5,902 $ 5,520  $ 13,983 $ 13,850
Texas 6,804 6,531  3,110 2,993  9,914 9,524
New York 3,639 3,863  4,432 4,381  8,071 8,244
Illinois 3,360 3,716  1,745 2,046  5,105 5,762
Florida 3,262 3,256  1,609 1,502  4,871 4,758
Arizona 2,024 2,084  1,276 1,491  3,300 3,575
Ohio 1,986 1,973  1,139 1,305  3,125 3,278
New Jersey 1,905 1,981  798 723  2,703 2,704
Michigan 1,215 1,357  1,253 1,329  2,468 2,686
Louisiana 1,617 1,587  741 860  2,358 2,447
All other 27,629 28,895  5,194 4,462  32,823 33,357
Total r etained loans $ 61,522 $ 63,573  $ 27,199 $ 26,612  $ 88,721 $ 90,185
Loans by risk ratings (c)      
Noncriticized $ 14,178 $ 15,749  $ 19,156 $ 18,743  $ 33,334 $ 34,492
Criticized performing 360 273  727 751  1,087 1,024
Criticized nonaccrual — — 198 191  198 191
(a)There were no loans that were 90 or more days past due and still accruing interest at December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
(b)The geographic regions presented in the table are ordered based on the magnitude of the corresponding loan balances at December 31, 2019 .
(c)For risk-rated business banking and auto loans, the primary credit quality indicator is the internal risk rating of the loan, including whether the loans are
considered to be criticized and/or nonaccrual.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 227
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Other consumer impaired loans and loan modifications
The following table provides information about the Firm’s other consumer impaired loans, including risk-rated business banking
and auto loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status, and loans that have been modified in TDRs.
December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018
Impaired loans   
With an allowance $ 227$ 222
Without an allowance(a) 19 29
Total impaired loans(b)(c) $ 246$ 251
Allowance for loan losses related to impaired loans $ 71$ 63
Unpaid principal balance of impaired loans(d) 342 355
Impaired loans on nonaccrual status 224 229
(a)When discounted cash flows, collateral value or market price equals or
exceeds the recorded investment in the loan, the loan does not require an
allowance. This typically occurs when the impaired loans have been
partially charged off and/or there have been interest payments received
and applied to the loan balance.
(b)Predominantly all other consumer impaired loans are in the U.S.
(c)Other consumer average impaired loans were $246 million, $275 million
and $427 million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017,
respectively. The related interest income on impaired loans, including
those on a cash basis, was not material for the years ended December 31,
2019, 2018 and 2017.
(d)Represents the contractual amount of principal owed at December 31,
2019 and 2018. The unpaid principal balance differs from the impaired
loan balances due to various factors, including charge-offs, interest
payments received and applied to the principal balance, net deferred loan
fees or costs and unamortized discounts or premiums on purchased loans. Loan modifications
Certain other consumer loan modifications are considered to
be TDRs as they provide various concessions to borrowers
who are experiencing financial difficulty. All of these TDRs
are reported as impaired loans. At December 31, 2019 and
2018, other consumer loans modified in TDRs were $76
million and $79 million, respectively. The impact of these
modifications, as well as new TDRs, were not material to the
Firm for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017.
Additional commitments to lend to borrowers whose loans
have been modified in TDRs as of December 31, 2019 and
2018 were not material. TDRs on nonaccrual status were $54
million and $57 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018,
respectively.
228 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Purchased credit-impaired loans
PCI loans are initially recorded at fair value at acquisition. PCI
loans acquired in the same fiscal quarter may be aggregated
into one or more pools, provided that the loans have common
risk characteristics. A pool is then accounted for as a single
asset with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate
expectation of cash flows. All of the Firm’s residential real
estate PCI loans were acquired in the same fiscal quarter and
aggregated into pools of loans with common risk
characteristics.
On a quarterly basis, the Firm estimates the total cash flows
(both principal and interest) expected to be collected over the
remaining life of each pool. These estimates incorporate
assumptions regarding default rates, loss severities, the
amounts and timing of prepayments and other factors that
reflect then-current market conditions. Probable decreases in
expected cash flows (i.e., increased credit losses) trigger the
recognition of impairment, which is then measured as the
present value of the expected principal loss plus any related
forgone interest cash flows, discounted at the pool’s effective
interest rate. Impairments are recognized through the provision
for credit losses and an increase in the allowance for loan
losses. Probable and significant increases in expected cash
flows (e.g., decreased credit losses, the net benefit of
modifications) would first reverse any previously recorded
allowance for loan losses with any remaining increases
recognized prospectively as a yield adjustment over the
remaining estimated lives of the underlying loans. The impacts
of (i) prepayments, (ii) changes in variable interest rates, and
(iii) any other changes in the timing of expected cash flows are
generally recognized prospectively as adjustments to interest
income.
The Firm continues to modify certain PCI loans. The impact of
these modifications is incorporated into the Firm’s quarterly
assessment of whether a probable and significant change in
expected cash flows has occurred, and the loans continue to be
accounted for and reported as PCI loans. In evaluating the
effect of modifications on expected cash flows, the Firm
incorporates the effect of any forgone interest and also
considers the potential for redefault. The Firm develops
product-specific probability of default estimates, which are
used to compute expected credit losses. In developing these
probabilities of default, the Firm considers the relationship
between the credit quality characteristics of the underlying
loans and certain assumptions about home prices and
unemployment based upon industry-wide data. The Firm also
considers its own historical loss experience to-date based on
actual redefaulted modified PCI loans.
The excess of cash flows expected to be collected over the
carrying value of the underlying loans is referred to as the
accretable yield. This amount is not reported on the Firm’s
Consolidated balance sheets but is accreted into interest
income at a level rate of return over the remaining estimated
lives of the underlying pools of loans. Since the timing and amounts of expected cash flows for the
Firm’s PCI consumer loan pools are reasonably estimable,
interest is being accreted and the loan pools are being reported
as performing loans. No interest would be accreted and the
PCI loan pools would be reported as nonaccrual loans if the
timing and/or amounts of expected cash flows on the loan
pools were determined not to be reasonably estimable.
The liquidation of PCI loans, which may include sales of
loans, receipt of payment in full from the borrower, or
foreclosure, results in removal of the loans from the underlying
PCI pool. When the amount of the liquidation proceeds (e.g.,
cash, real estate), if any, is less than the unpaid principal
balance of the loan, the difference is first applied against the
PCI pool’s nonaccretable difference for principal losses (i.e.,
the lifetime credit loss estimate established as a purchase
accounting adjustment at the acquisition date). When the
nonaccretable difference for a particular loan pool has been
fully depleted, any excess of the unpaid principal balance of
the loan over the liquidation proceeds is written off against the
PCI pool’s allowance for loan losses. Write-offs of PCI loans
also include other adjustments, primarily related to principal
forgiveness modifications. Because the Firm’s PCI loans are
accounted for at a pool level, the Firm does not recognize
charge-offs of PCI loans when they reach specified stages of
delinquency (i.e., unlike non-PCI consumer loans, these loans
are not charged off based on FFIEC standards).
The PCI portfolio affects the Firm’s results of operations
primarily through: (i) contribution to net interest margin;
(ii) expense related to defaults and servicing resulting from the
liquidation of the loans; and (iii) any provision for loan losses.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 229
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Residential real estate – PCI loans
The table below provides information about the Firm’s consumer, excluding credit card, PCI loans.
December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)Home equity  Prime mortgage  Subprime mortgage Option ARMs Total PCI
2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
Carrying value(a) $7,377 $8,963 $3,965 $4,690 $1,740 $1,945 $7,281 $8,436 $20,363 $24,034
Loan delinquency (based on unpaid principal
balance)         
Current $7,203 $8,624 $3,593 $4,226 $1,864 $2,033 $6,606 $7,592 $19,266 $22,475
30–149 days past due 217 278 219 259 230 286 356 398 1,022 1,221
150 or more days past due 148 242 172 223 101 123 333 457 754 1,045
Total loans $7,568 $9,144 $3,984 $4,708 $2,195 $2,442 $7,295 $8,447 $21,042 $24,741
% of 30+ days past due to total
loans 4.82% 5.69% 9.81% 10.24% 15.08% 16.75% 9.44% 10.12% 8.44% 9.16%
Current estimated LTV ratios (based on unpaid principal
balance)(b)(c)        
Greater than 125% and refreshed FICO scores:        
Equal to or greater than 660 $ 12 $ 17 $ 2 $ 1 $ — $ — $ 1 $ 3 $ 15 $ 21
Less than 660 9 13 6 7 7 9 7 7 29 36
101% to 125% and refreshed FICO scores:         
Equal to or greater than 660 86 135 3 6 6 4 14 17 109 162
Less than 660 39 65 17 22 20 35 18 33 94 155
80% to 100% and refreshed FICO scores:         
Equal to or greater than 660 588 805 47 75 47 54 85 119 767 1,053
Less than 660 261 388 65 112 100 161 113 190 539 851
Lower than 80% and refreshed FICO
scores:          
Equal to or greater than 660 4,803 5,548 2,429 2,689 784 739 4,710 5,111 12,726 14,087
Less than 660 1,562 1,908 1,250 1,568 1,136 1,327 2,093 2,622 6,041 7,425
No FICO/LTV available 208 265 165 228 95 113 254 345 722 951
Total unpaid principal balance $7,568 $9,144 $3,984 $4,708 $2,195 $2,442 $7,295 $8,447 $21,042 $24,741
Geographic region (based on unpaid principal
balance)(d)         
California $4,475 $5,420 $2,166 $2,578 $ 531 $ 593 $4,189 $4,798 $11,361 $13,389
Florida 833 976 288 332 212 234 604 713 1,937 2,255
New York 451 525 324 365 245 268 441 502 1,461 1,660
Illinois 200 233 134 154 113 123 175 199 622 709
Washington 326 419 80 98 37 44 143 177 586 738
New Jersey 174 210 112 134 78 88 219 258 583 690
Massachusetts 53 65 97 113 67 73 206 240 423 491
Maryland 40 48 86 95 87 96 157 178 370 417
Virginia 44 54 77 91 33 37 180 211 334 393
Arizona 130 165 57 69 37 43 93 112 317 389
All other 842 1,029 563 679 755 843 888 1,059 3,048 3,610
Total unpaid principal balance $7,568 $9,144 $3,984 $4,708 $2,195 $2,442 $7,295 $8,447 $21,042 $24,741
(a)Carrying value includes the effect of fair value adjustments that were applied to the consumer PCI portfolio at the date of acquisition.
(b)Represents the aggregate unpaid principal balance of loans divided by the estimated current property value. Current property values are estimated, at a
minimum, quarterly, based on home valuation models using nationally recognized home price index valuation estimates incorporating actual data to the extent
available and forecasted data where actual data is not available. These property values do not represent actual appraised loan level collateral values; as such, the
resulting ratios are necessarily imprecise and should be viewed as estimates. Current estimated combined LTV for junior lien home equity loans considers all
available lien positions, as well as unused lines, related to the property.
(c)Refreshed FICO scores represent each borrower’s most recent credit score, which is obtained by the Firm on at least a quarterly basis.
(d)The geographic regions presented in the table are ordered based on the magnitude of the corresponding loan balances at December 31, 2019.
230 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Approximately 27% of the PCI home equity portfolio are senior lien loans; the remaining balance are junior lien HELOANs or
HELOCs. The following table provides delinquency statistics for PCI junior lien home equity loans and lines of credit based on the
unpaid principal balance as of December 31, 2019 and 2018.
December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)Total loans Total 30+ day delinquency rate
2019 2018 2019 2018
HELOCs:(a)(b) $ 5,337$ 6,531 3.52% 4.00%
HELOANs 220 280 3.64 3.57
Total $ 5,557$ 6,811 3.53% 3.98%
(a)In general, these HELOCs are revolving loans for a 10-year period, after which time the HELOC converts to an interest-only loan with a balloon payment at the
end of the loan’s term. Substantially all HELOCs are beyond the revolving period.
(b)Includes loans modified into fixed rate amortizing loans.
The table below presents the accretable yield activity for the Firm’s PCI consumer loans for the years ended December 31, 2019,
2018 and 2017, and represents the Firm’s estimate of gross interest income expected to be earned over the remaining life of the PCI
loan portfolios. The table excludes the cost to fund the PCI portfolios, and therefore the accretable yield does not represent net
interest income expected to be earned on these portfolios.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)Total PCI
2019 2018 2017
Beginning balance $ 8,422 $ 11,159 $ 11,768
Accretion into interest income (1,093) (1,249) (1,396)
Changes in interest rates on variable-rate loans (575) (109) 503
Other changes in expected cash flows(a) (589) (1,379) 284
Balance at December 31 $ 6,165 $ 8,422 $ 11,159
Accretable yield percentage 5.28% 4.92% 4.53%
(a)Other changes in expected cash flows may vary from period to period as the Firm continues to refine its cash flow model, for example cash flows expected to be
collected due to the impact of modifications and changes in prepayment assumptions.
Active and suspended foreclosure
At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Firm had PCI residential real estate loans with an unpaid principal balance of $721 million
and $964 million, respectively, that were not included in REO, but were in the process of active or suspended foreclosure.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 231
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Credit card loan portfolio
The credit card portfolio segment includes credit card loans
originated and purchased by the Firm. Delinquency rates are
the primary credit quality indicator for credit card loans as they
provide an early warning that borrowers may be experiencing
difficulties (30 days past due); information on those borrowers
that have been delinquent for a longer period of time (90 days
past due) is also considered. In addition to delinquency rates,
the geographic distribution of the loans provides insight as to
the credit quality of the portfolio based on the regional
economy.
While the borrower’s credit score is another general indicator
of credit quality, the Firm does not view credit scores as a
primary indicator of credit quality because the borrower’s
credit score tends to be a lagging indicator. The distribution of
such scores provides a general indicator of credit quality trends
within the portfolio; however, the score does not capture all
factors that would be predictive of future credit performance.
Refreshed FICO score information, which is obtained at least
quarterly, for a statistically significant random sample of the
credit card portfolio is indicated in the following table. FICO
is considered to be the industry benchmark for credit scores.
The Firm generally originates new card accounts to prime
consumer borrowers. However, certain cardholders’ FICO
scores may decrease over time, depending on the performance
of the cardholder and changes in the credit score calculation. The table below provides information about the Firm’s credit
card loans.
As of or for the year ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios) 2019 2018
Net char ge-of fs $ 4,848 $ 4,518
Net char ge-of f rate 3.10% 3.10%
Loan delinquency   
Current and less than 30 days past due
and still accruing $ 165,767 $ 153,746
30–89 days past due and still accruing 1,550 1,426
90 or more days past due and still accruing 1,607 1,444
Total r etained loans $ 168,924 $ 156,616
Loan delinquency ratios   
% of 30+ days past due to total retained loans 1.87% 1.83%
% of 90+ days past due to total retained loans 0.95 0.92
Geographic r egion (a)   
California $ 25,783 $ 23,757
Texas 16,728 15,085
New York 14,544 13,601
Florida 10,830 9,770
Illinois 9,579 8,938
New Jersey 7,165 6,739
Ohio 5,406 5,094
Pennsylvania 5,245 4,996
Colorado 4,763 4,309
Michigan 4,164 3,912
All other 64,717 60,415
Total r etained loans $ 168,924 $ 156,616
Percentage of portfolio based on carrying
value with estimated r efreshed FICO
scores   
Equal to or greater than 660 84.0% 84.2%
Less than 660 15.4 15.0
No FICO available 0.6 0.8
(a)The geographic regions presented in the table are ordered based on the
magnitude of the corresponding loan balances at December 31, 2019.
232 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Credit card impaired loans and loan modifications
The table below provides information about the Firm’s
impaired credit card loans. All of these loans are considered to
be impaired as they have been modified in TDRs.
December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018
Impaired credit card loans with an
allowance(a)(b)(c) $ 1,452$ 1,319
Allowance for loan losses related to impaired
credit card loans 477 440
(a)The carrying value and the unpaid principal balance are the same for credit
card impaired loans.
(b)There were no impaired loans without an allowance.
(c)Predominantly all impaired credit card loans are in the U.S.
The following table presents average balances of impaired
credit card loans and interest income recognized on those
loans.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Average impaired credit card loans $ 1,389$ 1,260$ 1,214
Interest income on
  impaired credit card loans 72 65 59
Loan modifications
The Firm may offer one of a number of loan modification
programs to credit card borrowers who are experiencing
financial difficulty. Most of the credit card loans have been
modified under long-term programs for borrowers who are
experiencing financial difficulties. These modifications involve
placing the customer on a fixed payment plan, generally for 60
months, and typically include reducing the interest rate on the
credit card. Substantially all modifications are considered to be
TDRs. If the cardholder does not comply with the modified payment
terms, then the credit card loan continues to age and will
ultimately be charged-off in accordance with the Firm’s
standard charge-off policy. In most cases, the Firm does not
reinstate the borrower’s line of credit.
New enrollments in these loan modification programs for the
years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, were $961
million, $866 million and $756 million, respectively. For all
periods disclosed, new enrollments were less than 1% of total
retained credit card loans.
Financial effects of modifications and redefaults
The following table provides information about the financial
effects of the concessions granted on credit card loans
modified in TDRs and redefaults for the periods presented.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except
weighted-average data)  2019 2018 2017
Weighted-average interest rate
of loans – before TDR  19.07% 17.98% 16.58%
Weighted-average interest rate
of loans – after TDR  4.70 5.16 4.88
Loans that redefaulted within
one year of modification(a) $ 148$ 116$ 93
(a)Represents loans modified in TDRs that experienced a payment default in
the periods presented, and for which the payment default occurred within
one year of the modification. The amounts presented represent the balance
of such loans as of the end of the quarter in which they defaulted.
For credit card loans modified in TDRs, payment default is
deemed to have occurred when the borrower misses two
consecutive contractual payments. A substantial portion of
these loans are expected to be charged-off in accordance with
the Firm’s standard charge-off policy. Based on historical
experience, the estimated weighted-average default rate for
modified credit card loans was expected to be 32.89%, 33.38%
and 31.54% as of December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017,
respectively.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 233
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Wholesale loan portfolio
Wholesale loans include loans made to a variety of clients,
ranging from large corporate and institutional clients to high-
net-worth individuals.
The primary credit quality indicator for wholesale loans is the
internal risk rating assigned to each loan. Risk ratings are used
to identify the credit quality of loans and differentiate risk
within the portfolio. Risk ratings on loans consider the PD and
the LGD. The PD is the likelihood that a loan will default. The
LGD is the estimated loss on the loan that would be realized
upon the default of the borrower and takes into consideration
collateral and structural support for each credit facility.
Management considers several factors to determine an
appropriate internal risk rating, including the obligor’s debt
capacity and financial flexibility, the level of the obligor’s
earnings, the amount and sources for repayment, the level and
nature of contingencies, management strength, and the industry
and geography in which the obligor operates. The Firm’s
internal risk ratings generally align with the qualitative
characteristics (e.g., borrower capacity to meet financial
commitments and vulnerability to changes in the economic
environment) defined by S&P and Moody’s, however the
quantitative characteristics (e.g., PDs and LGDs) may differ as
they reflect internal historical experiences and assumptions.
The Firm considers internal ratings equivalent to BBB-/Baa3
or higher as investment grade, and these ratings have a lower
PD and/or lower LGD than non-investment grade ratings.
Noninvestment-grade ratings are further classified as
noncriticized and criticized, and the criticized portion is
further subdivided into performing and nonaccrual loans,
representing management’s assessment of the
collectibility of principal and interest. Criticized loans
have a higher PD than noncriticized loans. The Firm’s
definition of criticized aligns with the U.S. banking
regulatory definition of criticized exposures, which
consist of special mention, substandard and doubtful
categories . Risk ratings are reviewed on a regular and ongoing basis by
Credit Risk Management and are adjusted as necessary for
updated information affecting the obligor’s ability to fulfill its
obligations.
As noted above, the risk rating of a loan considers the industry
in which the obligor conducts its operations. As part of the
overall credit risk management framework, the Firm focuses
on the management and diversification of its industry and
client exposures, with particular attention paid to industries
with actual or potential credit concern. Refer to Note 4 for
further detail on industry concentrations.
234 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
The table below provides information by class of receivable for the retained loans in the Wholesale portfolio segment. Refer to
Note 4 for additional information on industry concentrations.
As of or for the
year ended
December 31,
(in millions,
except ratios)Commercial
and industrial  Real estateFinancial
institutions  Governments & Agencies Other (d)  Total
retained loans
2019 2018  2019 2018 2019 2018  2019 2018 2019 2018  2019 2018
Loans by risk
ratings         
Investment-grade $60,700 $73,497  $101,354 $100,107 $40,263 $32,178  $12,616 $13,984 $129,266 $119,963  $344,199 $339,729
Noninvestment-
  grade:         
Noncriticized 51,356 51,720  13,841 14,876 15,768 15,316  126 201 12,41 1 11,478  93,502 93,591
Criticized
performing 4,071 3,738  1,001 620 574 150  — 2 449 182  6,095 4,692
Criticized
nonaccrual 752 851  48 134 3 4 — — 40 161  843 1,150
Total
noninvestment-
grade 56,179 56,309  14,890 15,630 16,345 15,470  126 203 12,900 11,821  100,440 99,433
Total r etained
loans $116,879 $129,806  $116,244 $115,737 $56,608 $47,648  $12,742 $14,187 $142,166 $131,784  $444,639 $439,162
% of total
criticized to
total retained
loans 4.13% 3.54% 0.90% 0.65 % 1.02% 0.32% — 0.01% 0.34% 0.26% 1.56% 1.33%
% of criticized
nonaccrual to
total retained
loans 0.64 0.66  0.04 0.12 0.01 0.01  — — 0.03 0.12  0.19 0.26
Loans by
geographic
distribution (a)        
Total non-U.S. $28,253 $29,572  $ 4,123 $ 2,967 $16,800 $18,524  $2,232 $3,150 $49,966 $48,433  $101,374 $102,646
Total U.S. 88,626 100,234  112,121 112,770 39,808 29,124  10,510 11,037 92,200 83,351  343,265 336,516
Total r etained
loans $116,879 $129,806  $116,244 $115,737 $56,608 $47,648  $12,742 $14,187 $142,166 $131,784  $444,639 $439,162
Net char ge-
offs/(recoveries) $ 329 $ 165  $ 12 $ (20) $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 28 $ 10 $ 369 $ 155
% of net
charge-
offs/(recoveries)
to end-of-period
retained loans 0.28% 0.13% 0.01% (0.02)% —% — —% —% 0.02% 0.01% 0.08% 0.04%
Loan
delinquency (b)        
Current and less
than 30 days
past due and
still accruing $115,753 $128,678  $116,098 $115,533 $56,583 $47,622  $12,713 $14,165 $141,739 $130,918  $442,886 $436,916
30–89 days past
due and still
accruing 339 109  94 67 20 12 28 18 387 702  868 908
90 or more days
past due and
still accruing (c) 35 168  4 3 2 10 1 4 — 3 42 188
Criticized
nonaccrual 752 851  48 134 3 4 — — 40 161  843 1,150
Total r etained
loans $116,879 $129,806  $116,244 $115,737 $56,608 $47,648  $12,742 $14,187 $142,166 $131,784  $444,639 $439,162
(a)The U.S. and non-U.S. distribution is determined based predominantly on the domicile of the borrower.
(b)The credit quality of wholesale loans is assessed primarily through ongoing review and monitoring of an obligor’s ability to meet contractual obligations rather
than relying on the past due status, which is generally a lagging indicator of credit quality.
(c)Represents loans that are considered well-collateralized and therefore still accruing interest.
(d)Other includes individuals and individual entities (predominantly consists of Wealth Management clients within AWM and includes loans to personal
investment companies and personal and testamentary trusts), SPEs and Private education and civic organizations. Refer to Note 14 for more information on
SPEs.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 235
Notes to consolidated financial statements
The following table presents additional information on the real estate class of loans within the Wholesale portfolio for the periods
indicated, which consists primarily of secured commercial loans, of which multifamily is the largest segment. Multifamily lending
finances acquisition, leasing and construction of apartment buildings, and includes loans to real estate investment trusts (“REITs”).
Other commercial lending largely includes financing for acquisition, leasing and construction, largely for office, retail and
industrial real estate, and includes loans to REITs. Included in real estate loans is $8.2 billion and $10.5 billion as of December 31,
2019 and 2018, respectively, of construction and development loans originally purposed for construction and development, general
purpose loans for builders, as well as loans for land subdivision and pre-development.
December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)Multifamily Other Commercial Total real estate loans
2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
Real estate retained loans $ 79,402 $ 79,184 $ 36,842 $ 36,553 $ 116,244 $ 115,737
Criticized 407 388 642 366 1,049 754
% of total criticized to total real estate retained loans 0.51% 0.49% 1.74% 1.00% 0.90% 0.65%
Criticized nonaccrual $ 38 $ 57 $ 10 $ 77 $ 48 $ 134
% of criticized nonaccrual loans to total real estate retained loans 0.05% 0.07% 0.03% 0.21% 0.04% 0.12%
Wholesale impaired retained loans and loan modifications
Wholesale impaired retained loans consist of loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status and/or that have been modified in a
TDR. All impaired loans are evaluated for an asset-specific allowance as described in Note 13.
The table below sets forth information about the Firm’s wholesale impaired retained loans.
December 31,
(in millions)Commercial
and industrial Real estate  Financial
institutions OtherTotal
retained loans
2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
Impaired loans        
With an allowance $ 637$ 807 $ 49$ 107 $ 3$ 4 $ 42$ 152 $ 731 $ 1,070
Without an allowance(a) 177 140 — 27 — — 4 13 181 180
Total impaired loans $ 814$ 947 $ 49$ 134 $ 3$ 4 $ 46$ 165 $ 912(c) $ 1,250(c) 
Allowance for loan losses related to
impaired loans $ 221$ 252 $ 9$ 25 $ 1$ 1 $ 3$ 19 $ 234 $ 297
Unpaid principal balance of impaired
loans(b) 974 1,043 72 203 4 4 54 473 1,104 1,723
(a)When the discounted cash flows, collateral value or market price equals or exceeds the recorded investment in the loan, the loan does not require an allowance.
This typically occurs when the impaired loans have been partially charged-off and/or there have been interest payments received and applied to the loan balance.
(b)Represents the contractual amount of principal owed at December 31, 2019 and 2018. The unpaid principal balance differs from the impaired loan balances due
to various factors, including charge-offs; interest payments received and applied to the carrying value; net deferred loan fees or costs; and unamortized discount
or premiums on purchased loans.
(c)Based upon the domicile of the borrower, largely consists of loans in the U.S.
The following table presents the Firm’s average impaired
retained loans for the years ended 2019, 2018 and 2017.
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Commercial and industrial $ 1,086$ 1,027$ 1,256
Real estate 94 133 165
Financial institutions 11 57 48
Other 168 199 241
Total(a) $ 1,359$ 1,416$ 1,710
(a)The related interest income on accruing impaired loans and interest
income recognized on a cash basis were not material for the years ended
December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. Certain loan modifications are considered to be TDRs as they
provide various concessions to borrowers who are
experiencing financial difficulty. All TDRs are reported as
impaired loans in the tables above. TDRs were $460 million
and $576 million as of December 31, 2019 and 2018,
respectively. The impact of these modifications, as well as new
TDRs, were not material to the Firm for the years ended
December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017.
236 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Note 13 – Allowance for  credit losses
JPMorgan Chase’s allowance for loan losses represents
management’s estimate of probable credit losses inherent in
the Firm’s retained loan portfolio, which consists of the two
consumer portfolio segments (primarily scored) and the
wholesale portfolio segment (risk-rated). The allowance for
loan losses includes a formula-based component, an asset-
specific component, and a component related to PCI loans, as
described below. Management also estimates an allowance for
wholesale and certain consumer lending-related commitments
using methodologies similar to those used to estimate the
allowance on the underlying loans.
The Firm’s policies used to determine its allowance for credit
losses are described in the following paragraphs.
Determining the appropriateness of the allowance is complex
and requires judgment by management about the effect of
matters that are inherently uncertain. Subsequent evaluations
of the loan portfolio, in light of the factors then prevailing,
may result in significant changes in the allowances for loan
losses and lending-related commitments in future periods. At
least quarterly, the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by
the CRO, the CFO and the Controller of the Firm. As of
December 31, 2019, JPMorgan Chase deemed the allowance
for credit losses to be appropriate and sufficient to absorb
probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio.
Formula-based component
The formula-based component is based on a statistical
calculation to provide for incurred credit losses in all consumer
loans and performing risk-rated loans. All loans restructured in
TDRs as well as any impaired risk-rated loans have an
allowance assessed as part of the asset-specific component,
while PCI loans have an allowance assessed as part of the PCI
component. Refer to Note 12 for more information on TDRs,
Impaired loans and PCI loans.
Formula-based component - Consumer loans and certain
lending-related commitments
The formula-based allowance for credit losses for the
consumer portfolio segments is calculated by applying
statistical credit loss factors (estimated PD and loss severities)
to the recorded investment balances or loan-equivalent
amounts of pools of loan exposures with similar risk
characteristics over a loss emergence period to arrive at an
estimate of incurred credit losses. Estimated loss emergence
periods may vary by product and may change over time;
management applies judgment in estimating loss emergence
periods, using available credit information and trends. In
addition, management applies judgment to the statistical loss
estimates for each loan portfolio category, using delinquency
trends and other risk characteristics to estimate the total
incurred credit losses in the portfolio. Management uses
additional statistical methods and considers actual portfolio
performance, including actual losses recognized on defaulted
loans and collateral valuation trends, to review the
appropriateness of the primary statistical loss estimate. The
economic impact of potential modifications of residential real estate loans is not
included in the statistical calculation because of the uncertainty
regarding the type and results of such modifications.
The statistical calculation is then adjusted to take into
consideration model imprecision, external factors and current
economic events that have occurred but that are not yet
reflected in the factors used to derive the statistical calculation;
these adjustments are accomplished in part by analyzing the
historical loss experience for each major product segment.
However, it is difficult to predict whether historical loss
experience is indicative of future loss levels. Management
applies judgment in making this adjustment, taking into
account uncertainties associated with current macroeconomic
and political conditions, quality of underwriting standards,
borrower behavior, and other relevant internal and external
factors affecting the credit quality of the portfolio. In certain
instances, the interrelationships between these factors create
further uncertainties. The application of different inputs into
the statistical calculation, and the assumptions used by
management to adjust the statistical calculation, are subject to
management judgment, and emphasizing one input or
assumption over another, or considering other inputs or
assumptions, could affect the estimate of the allowance for
credit losses for the consumer credit portfolio.
Overall, the allowance for credit losses for consumer portfolios
is sensitive to changes in the economic environment (e.g.,
unemployment rates), delinquency rates, the realizable value of
collateral (e.g., housing prices), FICO scores, borrower
behavior and other risk factors. While all of these factors are
important determinants of overall allowance levels, changes in
the various factors may not occur at the same time or at the
same rate, or changes may be directionally inconsistent such
that improvement in one factor may offset deterioration in
another. In addition, changes in these factors would not
necessarily be consistent across all geographies or product
types. Finally, it is difficult to predict the extent to which
changes in these factors would ultimately affect the frequency
of losses, the severity of losses or both.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 237
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Formula-based component - Wholesale loans and lending-
related commitments
The Firm’s methodology for determining the allowance for
loan losses and the allowance for lending-related commitments
involves the early identification of credits that are
deteriorating. The formula-based component of the allowance
for wholesale loans and lending-related commitments is
calculated by applying statistical credit loss factors (estimated
PD and LGD) to the recorded investment balances or loan-
equivalent over a loss emergence period to arrive at an
estimate of incurred credit losses in the portfolio. Estimated
loss emergence periods may vary by the funded versus
unfunded status of the instrument and may change over time.
The Firm assesses the credit quality of a borrower or
counterparty and assigns an internal risk rating. Risk ratings
are assigned at origination or acquisition, and if necessary,
adjusted for changes in credit quality over the life of the
exposure. In assessing the risk rating of a particular loan or
lending-related commitment, among the factors considered are
the obligor’s debt capacity and financial flexibility, the level of
the obligor’s earnings, the amount and sources for repayment,
the level and nature of contingencies, management strength,
and the industry and geography in which the obligor operates.
These factors are based on an evaluation of historical and
current information and involve subjective assessment and
interpretation. Determining risk ratings involves significant
judgment; emphasizing one factor over another or considering
additional factors could affect the risk rating assigned by the
Firm.
A PD estimate is determined based on the Firm’s history of
defaults over more than one credit cycle.
LGD estimate is a judgment-based estimate assigned to each
loan or lending-related commitment. The estimate represents
the amount of economic loss if the obligor were to default. The
type of obligor, quality of collateral, and the seniority of the
Firm’s lending exposure in the obligor’s capital structure affect
LGD.
The Firm applies judgment in estimating PD, LGD, loss
emergence period and loan-equivalent used in calculating the
allowance for credit losses. Estimates of PD, LGD, loss
emergence period and loan-equivalent used are subject to
periodic refinement based on any changes to underlying
external or Firm-specific historical data. Changes to the time
period used for PD and LGD estimates could also affect the
allowance for credit losses. The use of different inputs,
estimates or methodologies could change the amount of the
allowance for credit losses determined appropriate by the Firm.
In addition to the statistical credit loss estimates applied to the
wholesale portfolio, management applies its judgment to adjust
the statistical estimates for wholesale loans and lending-related
commitments, taking into consideration model imprecision,
external factors and economic events that have occurred but
are not yet reflected in the loss factors. Historical experience of both LGD and PD are
considered when estimating these adjustments. Factors related
to concentrated and deteriorating industries also are
incorporated where relevant. These estimates are based on
management’s view of uncertainties that relate to current
macroeconomic conditions, quality of underwriting standards
and other relevant internal and external factors affecting the
credit quality of the current portfolio.
Asset-specific component
The asset-specific component of the allowance relates to loans
considered to be impaired, which includes loans that have been
modified in TDRs as well as risk-rated loans that have been
placed on nonaccrual status. To determine the asset-specific
component of the allowance, larger risk-rated loans (primarily
loans in the wholesale portfolio segment) are evaluated
individually, while smaller loans (both risk-rated and scored)
are evaluated as pools using historical loss experience for the
respective class of assets.
The Firm generally measures the asset-specific allowance as
the difference between the recorded investment in the loan and
the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected,
discounted at the loan’s original effective interest rate.
Subsequent changes in impairment are reported as an
adjustment to the allowance for loan losses. In certain cases,
the asset-specific allowance is determined using an observable
market price, and the allowance is measured as the difference
between the recorded investment in the loan and the loan’s fair
value. Collateral-dependent loans are charged down to the fair
value of collateral less costs to sell. For any of these impaired
loans, the amount of the asset-specific allowance required to
be recorded, if any, is dependent upon the recorded investment
in the loan (including prior charge-offs), and either the
expected cash flows or fair value of collateral. Refer to Note
12 for more information about charge-offs and collateral-
dependent loans.
The asset-specific component of the allowance for impaired
loans that have been modified in TDRs (including forgone
interest, principal forgiveness, as well as other concessions)
incorporates the effect of the modification on the loan’s
expected cash flows, which considers the potential for
redefault. For residential real estate loans modified in TDRs,
the Firm develops product-specific probability of default
estimates, which are applied at a loan level to compute
expected losses. In developing these probabilities of default,
the Firm considers the relationship between the credit quality
characteristics of the underlying loans and certain assumptions
about home prices and unemployment, based upon industry-
wide data. The Firm also considers its own historical loss
experience to-date based on actual redefaulted modified loans.
For credit card loans modified in TDRs, expected losses
incorporate projected redefaults based on the Firm’s historical
experience by type of modification program. For wholesale
loans modified in TDRs, expected losses incorporate
management’s expectation of the borrower’s ability to repay
under the modified terms.
238 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Estimating the timing and amounts of future cash flows is
highly judgmental as these cash flow projections rely upon
estimates such as loss severities, asset valuations, default rates
(including redefault rates on modified loans), the amounts and
timing of interest or principal payments (including any
expected prepayments) or other factors that are reflective of
current and expected market conditions. These estimates are,
in turn, dependent on factors such as the duration of current
overall economic conditions, industry-, portfolio-, or borrower-
specific factors, the expected outcome of insolvency
proceedings as well as, in certain circumstances, other
economic factors, including the level of future home prices. All
of these estimates and assumptions require significant
management judgment and certain assumptions are highly
subjective. PCI loans
In connection with the acquisition of certain PCI loans, which
are accounted for as described in Note 12, the allowance for
loan losses for the PCI portfolio is based on quarterly estimates
of the amount of principal and interest cash flows expected to
be collected over the estimated remaining lives of the loans.
These cash flow projections are based on estimates regarding
default rates (including redefault rates on modified loans), loss
severities, the amounts and timing of prepayments and other
factors that are reflective of current and expected future market
conditions. These estimates are dependent on assumptions
regarding the level of future home prices, and the duration of
current overall economic conditions, among other factors.
These estimates and assumptions require significant
management judgment and certain assumptions are highly
subjective.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 239
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Allowance for credit losses and related information
The table below summarizes information about the allowances for loan losses and lending-relating commitments, and includes a
breakdown of loans and lending-related commitments by impairment methodology.
(Table continued on next page)     
 2019
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)Consumer,
excluding
credit card Credit card Wholesale Total
Allowance for loan losses     
Beginning balance at January 1, $ 4,146 $ 5,184 $ 4,115 $ 13,445
Gross charge-offs 963 5,436 411 6,810
Gross recoveries (551) (588) (42) (1,181)
Net charge-offs 412 4,848 369 5,629
Write-offs of PCI loans(a) 151 — — 151
Provision for loan losses (383) 5,348 484 5,449
Other (1) (1) 11 9
Ending balance at December 31, $ 3,199 $ 5,683 $ 4,241 $ 13,123
Allowance for loan losses by impairment methodology     
Asset-specific(b) $ 136 $ 477(c) $ 234 $ 847
Formula-based 2,076 5,206 4,007 11,289
PCI 987 — — 987
Total allowance for loan losses $ 3,199 $ 5,683 $ 4,241 $ 13,123
Loans by impairment methodology     
Asset-specific $ 6,172 $ 1,452 $ 912 $ 8,536
Formula-based 305,503 167,472 443,727 916,702
PCI 20,363 — — 20,363
Total retained loans $ 332,038 $ 168,924 $ 444,639 $ 945,601
Impaired collateral-dependent loans     
Net charge-offs $ 57 $ — $ 25 $ 82
Loans measured at fair value of collateral less cost to sell 2,059 — 81 2,140
Allowance for lending-related commitments     
Beginning balance at January 1, $ 33 $ — $ 1,022 $ 1,055
Provision for lending-related commitments — — 136 136
Other — — — —
Ending balance at December 31, $ 33 $ — $ 1,158 $ 1,191
Allowance for lending-related commitments by impairment methodology     
Asset-specific $ — $ — $ 102 $ 102
Formula-based 33 — 1,056 1,089
Total allowance for lending-related commitments $ 33 $ — $ 1,158 $ 1,191
Lending-related commitments by impairment methodology     
Asset-specific $ — $ — $ 474 $ 474
Formula-based 51,412 650,720 403,641 1,105,773
Total lending-related commitments $ 51,412 $ 650,720 $ 404,115 $1,106,247
(a)Write-offs of PCI loans are recorded against the allowance for loan losses when actual losses for a pool exceed estimated losses that were recorded as purchase
accounting adjustments at the time of acquisition. A write-off of a PCI loan is recognized when the underlying loan is removed from a pool.
(b)Includes risk-rated loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status and loans that have been modified in a TDR.
(c)The asset-specific credit card allowance for loan losses is related to loans that have been modified in a TDR; such allowance is calculated based on the loans’
original contractual interest rates and does not consider any incremental penalty rates.
240 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
(table continued from previous page)       
2018  2017  
Consumer,
excluding
credit card Credit card Wholesale Total  Consumer,
excluding
credit card Credit card Wholesale Total  
        
$ 4,579 $ 4,884 $ 4,141 $ 13,604 $ 5,198 $ 4,034 $ 4,544 $ 13,776 
1,025 5,011 313 6,349 1,779 4,521 212 6,512 
(842) (493) (158) (1,493) (634) (398) (93) (1,125) 
183 4,518 155 4,856 1,145 4,123 119 5,387 
187 — — 187 86 — — 86 
(63) 4,818 130 4,885 613 4,973 (286) 5,300 
— — (1) (1) (1) — 2 1 
$ 4,146 $ 5,184 $ 4,115 $ 13,445 $ 4,579 $ 4,884 $ 4,141 $ 13,604 
        
$ 196 $ 440(c) $ 297 $ 933 $ 246 $ 383(c) $ 461 $ 1,090 
2,162 4,744 3,818 10,724 2,108 4,501 3,680 10,289 
1,788 — — 1,788 2,225 — — 2,225 
$ 4,146 $ 5,184 $ 4,115 $ 13,445 $ 4,579 $ 4,884 $ 4,141 $ 13,604 
        
$ 6,874 $ 1,319 $ 1,250 $ 9,443 $ 8,078 $ 1,215 $ 1,867 $ 11,160 
342,729 155,297 437,909 935,935 333,899 148,172 401,028 883,099 
24,034 — 3 24,037 30,576 — 3 30,579 
$ 373,637 $ 156,616 $ 439,162 $ 969,415 $ 372,553 $ 149,387 $ 402,898 $ 924,838 
        
$ 24 $ — $ 21 $ 45 $ 64 $ — $ 31 $ 95 
2,080 — 202 2,282 2,133 — 233 2,366 
        
$ 33 $ — $ 1,035 $ 1,068 $ 26 $ — $ 1,052 $ 1,078 
— — (14) (14) 7 — (17) (10) 
— — 1 1 — — — — 
$ 33 $ — $ 1,022 $ 1,055 $ 33 $ — $ 1,035 $ 1,068 
        
$ — $ — $ 99 $ 99 $ — $ — $ 187 $ 187 
33 — 923 956 33 — 848 881 
$ 33 $ — $ 1,022 $ 1,055 $ 33 $ — $ 1,035 $ 1,068 
        
$ — $ — $ 469 $ 469 $ — $ — $ 731 $ 731 
46,066 605,379 387,344 1,038,789 48,553 572,831 369,367 990,751 
$ 46,066 $ 605,379 $ 387,813 $ 1,039,258 $ 48,553 $ 572,831 $ 370,098 $ 991,482 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 241
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 14 – Variable inter est entities
Refer to Note 1 on page 151 for a further description of JPMorgan Chase’s accounting policies regarding consolidation of VIEs.
The following table summarizes the most significant types of Firm-sponsored VIEs by business segment. The Firm considers a
“sponsored” VIE to include any entity where: (1) JPMorgan Chase is the primary beneficiary of the structure; (2) the VIE is used
by JPMorgan Chase to securitize Firm assets; (3) the VIE issues financial instruments with the JPMorgan Chase name; or (4) the
entity is a JPMorgan Chase–administered asset-backed commercial paper conduit.
Line of BusinessTransaction Type Activity2019 Form 10-K
page references
CCBCredit card securitization trusts Securitization of originated credit card receivables 242–243
Mortgage securitization trustsServicing and securitization of both originated and
purchased residential mortgages243–245
CIBMortgage and other securitization trusts Securitization of both originated and purchased
residential and commercial mortgages, and other
consumer loans243–245
Multi-seller conduits Assist clients in accessing the financial markets in a
cost-efficient manner and structures transactions to meet
investor needs245
Municipal bond vehicles Financing of municipal bond investments 245–246
The Firm’s other business segments are also involved with VIEs (both third-party and Firm-sponsored), but to a lesser extent, as
follows:
•Asset & Wealth Management: AWM sponsors and manages certain funds that are deemed VIEs. As asset manager of the funds,
AWM earns a fee based on assets managed; the fee varies with each fund’s investment objective and is competitively priced.
For fund entities that qualify as VIEs, AWM’s interests are, in certain cases, considered to be significant variable interests that
result in consolidation of the financial results of these entities.
•Commercial Banking: CB provides financing and lending-related services to a wide spectrum of clients, including certain third-
party-sponsored entities that may meet the definition of a VIE. CB does not control the activities of these entities and does not
consolidate these entities. CB’s maximum loss exposure, regardless of whether the entity is a VIE, is generally limited to loans
and lending-related commitments which are reported and disclosed in the same manner as any other third-party transaction.
•Corporate: Corporate is involved with entities that may meet the definition of VIEs; however these entities are generally subject
to specialized investment company accounting, which does not require the consolidation of investments, including VIEs. In
addition, Treasury and CIO invest in securities generally issued by third parties which may meet the definition of VIEs (e.g.,
issuers of asset-backed securities). In general, the Firm does not have the power to direct the significant activities of these
entities and therefore does not consolidate these entities. Refer to Note 10 for further information on the Firm’s investment
securities portfolio.
In addition, CIB also invests in and provides financing and other services to VIEs sponsored by third parties. Refer to page 247 of
this Note for more information on the VIEs sponsored by third parties.
Significant Firm-sponsored variable interest entities
Credit card securitizations
CCB’s Card business may securitize originated credit card
loans, primarily through the Chase Issuance Trust (the
“Trust”). The Firm’s continuing involvement in credit card
securitizations includes servicing the receivables, retaining an
undivided seller’s interest in the receivables, retaining certain
senior and subordinated securities and maintaining escrow
accounts.
The Firm is considered to be the primary beneficiary of these
Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts based on the
Firm’s ability to direct the activities of these VIEs through its
servicing responsibilities and other duties, including making
decisions as to the receivables that are transferred into those
trusts and as to any related modifications and workouts.
Additionally, the nature and extent of the Firm’s other
continuing involvement with the trusts, as indicated above,
obligates the Firm to absorb losses and gives the Firm the right to receive certain benefits
from these VIEs that could potentially be significant.
The underlying securitized credit card receivables and other
assets of the securitization trusts are available only for
payment of the beneficial interests issued by the securitization
trusts; they are not available to pay the Firm’s other obligations
or the claims of the Firm’s creditors.
The agreements with the credit card securitization trusts
require the Firm to maintain a minimum undivided interest in
the credit card trusts (generally 5%). As of December 31, 2019
and 2018, the Firm held undivided interests in Firm-sponsored
credit card securitization trusts of $5.3 billion and $15.1
billion, respectively. The Firm maintained an average
undivided interest in principal receivables owned by those
trusts of approximately 50% and 37% for the years ended
December 31, 2019 and 2018. The Firm did
242 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
not retain any senior securities and retained $3.0 billion of
subordinated securities in certain of its credit card
securitization trusts as of both December 31, 2019 and 2018,
respectively. The Firm’s undivided interests in the credit card
trusts and securities retained are eliminated in consolidation. Firm-sponsored mortgage and other securitization trusts
The Firm securitizes (or has securitized) originated and
purchased residential mortgages, commercial mortgages and
other consumer loans primarily in its CCB and CIB businesses.
Depending on the particular transaction, as well as the
respective business involved, the Firm may act as the servicer
of the loans and/or retain certain beneficial interests in the
securitization trusts.
The following table presents the total unpaid principal amount of assets held in Firm-sponsored private-label securitization entities,
including those in which the Firm has continuing involvement, and those that are consolidated by the Firm. Continuing
involvement includes servicing the loans, holding senior interests or subordinated interests (including amounts required to be held
pursuant to credit risk retention rules), recourse or guarantee arrangements, and derivative contracts. In certain instances, the Firm’s
only continuing involvement is servicing the loans. The Firm’s maximum loss exposure from retained and purchased interests is the
carrying value of these interests. Refer to Securitization activity on page 248 of this Note for further information regarding the
Firm’s cash flows associated with and interests retained in nonconsolidated VIEs, and pages 248–249 of this Note for information
on the Firm’s loan sales and securitization activity related to U.S. GSEs and government agencies.
 Principal amount outstandingJPMorgan Chase interest in securitized assets in
nonconsolidated VIEs(c)(d)(e)
December 31, 2019
(in millions)Total assets
held by
securitization
VIEsAssets
held in
consolidated
securitization
VIEsAssets held in
nonconsolidated
securitization VIEs
with continuing
involvementTrading
assets Investment
securitiesOther
financial
assetsTotal interests
held by
JPMorgan
Chase
Securitization-related(a)   
Residential mortgage:   
Prime/Alt-A and option ARMs $ 60,348$ 2,796$ 48,734 $ 535$ 625$ —$ 1,160
Subprime 14,661 — 13,490 7 — — 7
Commercial and other(b) 111,903 — 80,878 785 773 241 1,799
Total $ 186,912$ 2,796$ 143,102 $ 1,327$ 1,398$ 241$ 2,966
 Principal amount outstandingJPMorgan Chase interest in securitized assets in
nonconsolidated VIEs(c)(d)(e)
December 31, 2018
(in millions)Total assets
held by
securitization
VIEsAssets
held in
consolidated
securitization
VIEsAssets held in
nonconsolidated
securitization VIEs
with continuing
involvementTrading
assets Investment
securitiesOther
financial
assetsTotal interests
held by
JPMorgan
Chase
Securitization-related(a)   
Residential mortgage:   
Prime/Alt-A and option ARMs $ 63,350$ 3,237$ 50,679 $ 623$ 647$ —$ 1,270
Subprime 16,729 32 15,434 53 — — 53
Commercial and other(b) 102,961 — 79,387 783 801 210 1,794
Total $ 183,040$ 3,269$ 145,500 $ 1,459$ 1,448$ 210$ 3,117
(a)Excludes U.S. GSEs and government agency securitizations and re-securitizations, which are not Firm-sponsored. Refer to pages 248–249 of this Note for
information on the Firm’s loan sales and securitization activity related to U.S. GSEs and government agencies.
(b)Consists of securities backed by commercial real estate loans and non-mortgage-related consumer receivables purchased from third parties.
(c)Excludes the following: retained servicing (refer to Note 15 for a discussion of MSRs); securities retained from loan sales and securitization activity related to
U.S. GSEs and government agencies; interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives primarily used to manage interest rate and foreign exchange risks of
securitization entities (refer to Note 5 for further information on derivatives); senior and subordinated securities of $106 million and $94 million, respectively, at
December 31, 2019, and $87 million and $28 million, respectively, at December 31, 2018, which the Firm purchased in connection with CIB’s secondary
market-making activities.
(d)Includes interests held in re-securitization transactions.
(e)As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, 63% and 60%, respectively, of the Firm’s retained securitization interests, which are predominantly carried at fair value and
include amounts required to be held pursuant to credit risk retention rules, were risk-rated “A” or better, on an S&P-equivalent basis. The retained interests in
prime residential mortgages consisted of $1.1 billion and $1.3 billion of investment-grade, and $72 million and $16 million of noninvestment-grade at
December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The retained interests in commercial and other securitizations trusts consisted of $1.2 billion of investment-grade for
both periods, and $575 million and $623 million of noninvestment-grade retained interests at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.    
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 243
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Residential mortgage
The Firm securitizes residential mortgage loans originated by
CCB, as well as residential mortgage loans purchased from
third parties by either CCB or CIB. CCB generally retains
servicing for all residential mortgage loans it originated or
purchased, and for certain mortgage loans purchased by CIB.
For securitizations of loans serviced by CCB, the Firm has the
power to direct the significant activities of the VIE because it
is responsible for decisions related to loan modifications and
workouts. CCB may also retain an interest upon securitization.
In addition, CIB engages in underwriting and trading activities
involving securities issued by Firm-sponsored securitization
trusts. As a result, CIB at times retains senior and/or
subordinated interests (including residual interests and
amounts required to be held pursuant to credit risk retention
rules) in residential mortgage securitizations at the time of
securitization, and/or reacquires positions in the secondary
market in the normal course of business. In certain instances,
as a result of the positions retained or reacquired by CIB or
held by CCB, when considered together with the servicing
arrangements entered into by CCB, the Firm is deemed to be
the primary beneficiary of certain securitization trusts. Refer to
the table on page 246 of this Note for more information on
consolidated residential mortgage securitizations.
The Firm does not consolidate residential mortgage
securitizations (Firm-sponsored or third-party-sponsored)
when it is not the servicer (and therefore does not have the
power to direct the most significant activities of the trust) or
does not hold a beneficial interest in the trust that could
potentially be significant to the trust. Refer to the table on page
246 of this Note for more information on the consolidated
residential mortgage securitizations, and the table on the
previous page of this Note for further information on interests
held in nonconsolidated residential mortgage securitizations.
Commercial mortgages and other consumer securitizations
CIB originates and securitizes commercial mortgage loans, and
engages in underwriting and trading activities involving the
securities issued by securitization trusts. CIB may retain
unsold senior and/or subordinated interests (including amounts
required to be held pursuant to credit risk retention rules) in
commercial mortgage securitizations at the time of
securitization but, generally, the Firm does not service
commercial loan securitizations. For commercial mortgage
securitizations the power to direct the significant activities of
the VIE generally is held by the servicer or investors in a
specified class of securities (“controlling class”). The Firm
generally does not retain an interest in the controlling class in
its sponsored commercial mortgage securitization transactions.
Refer to the table on page 246 of this Note for more
information on the consolidated commercial mortgage
securitizations, and the table on the previous page of this Note
for further information on interests held in nonconsolidated
securitizations. Re-securitizations
The Firm engages in certain re-securitization transactions in
which debt securities are transferred to a VIE in exchange for
new beneficial interests. These transfers occur in connection
with both U.S. GSEs and government agency sponsored VIEs,
which are backed by residential mortgages. The Firm’s
consolidation analysis is largely dependent on the Firm’s role
and interest in the re-securitization trusts.
The following table presents the principal amount of securities
transferred to re-securitization VIEs.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2019  2018  2017
Transfers of securities to VIEs     
U.S. GSEs and government
agencies 25,852 15,532 12,617
Most re-securitizations with which the Firm is involved are
client-driven transactions in which a specific client or group of
clients is seeking a specific return or risk profile. For these
transactions, the Firm has concluded that the decision-making
power of the entity is shared between the Firm and its clients,
considering the joint effort and decisions in establishing the re-
securitization trust and its assets, as well as the significant
economic interest the client holds in the re-securitization trust;
therefore the Firm does not consolidate the re-securitization
VIE.
The Firm did not transfer any private label securities to re-
securitization VIEs during 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively,
and retained interests in any such Firm-sponsored VIEs as of
December 31, 2019 and 2018 were immaterial.
Additionally, the Firm may invest in beneficial interests of
third-party-sponsored re-securitizations and generally
purchases these interests in the secondary market. In these
circumstances, the Firm does not have the unilateral ability to
direct the most significant activities of the re-securitization
trust, either because it was not involved in the initial design of
the trust, or the Firm is involved with an independent third-
party sponsor and demonstrates shared power over the creation
of the trust; therefore, the Firm does not consolidate the re-
securitization VIE.
244 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
The following table presents information on nonconsolidated
re-securitization VIEs.
 Nonconsolidated
re-securitization VIEs
December 31,
(in millions) 2019 2018
U.S. GSEs and government agencies
Interest in VIEs 2,928 3,058
As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Firm did not
consolidate any U.S. GSE and government agency re-
securitization VIEs or any Firm-sponsored private-label re-
securitization VIEs.
Multi-seller conduits
Multi-seller conduit entities are separate bankruptcy remote
entities that provide secured financing, collateralized by pools
of receivables and other financial assets, to customers of the
Firm. The conduits fund their financing facilities through the
issuance of highly rated commercial paper. The primary source
of repayment of the commercial paper is the cash flows from
the pools of assets. In most instances, the assets are structured
with deal-specific credit enhancements provided to the
conduits by the customers (i.e., sellers) or other third parties.
Deal-specific credit enhancements are generally structured to
cover a multiple of historical losses expected on the pool of
assets, and are typically in the form of overcollateralization
provided by the seller. The deal-specific credit enhancements
mitigate the Firm’s potential losses on its agreements with the
conduits.
To ensure timely repayment of the commercial paper, and to
provide the conduits with funding to provide financing to
customers in the event that the conduits do not obtain funding
in the commercial paper market, each asset pool financed by
the conduits has a minimum 100% deal-specific liquidity
facility associated with it provided by JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. also provides the multi-
seller conduit vehicles with uncommitted program-wide
liquidity facilities and program-wide credit enhancement in the
form of standby letters of credit. The amount of program-wide
credit enhancement required is based upon commercial paper
issuance and approximates 10% of the outstanding balance of
commercial paper.
The Firm consolidates its Firm-administered multi-seller
conduits, as the Firm has both the power to direct the
significant activities of the conduits and a potentially
significant economic interest in the conduits. As administrative
agent and in its role in structuring transactions, the Firm makes
decisions regarding asset types and credit quality, and manages
the commercial paper funding needs of the conduits. The
Firm’s interests that could potentially be significant to the
VIEs include the fees received as administrative agent and
liquidity and program-wide credit enhancement provider, as
well as the potential exposure created by the liquidity and
credit enhancement facilities provided to the conduits. Refer to
page 246 of this Note for further information on consolidated
VIE assets and liabilities. In the normal course of business, JPMorgan Chase makes
markets in and invests in commercial paper issued by the
Firm-administered multi-seller conduits. The Firm held $16.3
billion and $20.1 billion of the commercial paper issued by the
Firm-administered multi-seller conduits at December 31, 2019
and 2018, respectively, which have been eliminated in
consolidation. The Firm’s investments reflect the Firm’s
funding needs and capacity and were not driven by market
illiquidity. Other than the amounts required to be held pursuant
to credit risk retention rules, the Firm is not obligated under
any agreement to purchase the commercial paper issued by the
Firm-administered multi-seller conduits.
Deal-specific liquidity facilities, program-wide liquidity and
credit enhancement provided by the Firm have been eliminated
in consolidation. The Firm or the Firm-administered multi-
seller conduits provide lending-related commitments to certain
clients of the Firm-administered multi-seller conduits. The
unfunded commitments were $8.9 billion and $8.0 billion at
December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and are reported as
off-balance sheet lending-related commitments in other
unfunded commitments to extend credit. Refer to Note 28 for
more information on off-balance sheet lending-related
commitments.
Municipal bond vehicles
Municipal bond vehicles or tender option bond (“TOB”) trusts
allow institutions to finance their municipal bond investments
at short-term rates. In a typical TOB transaction, the trust
purchases highly rated municipal bond(s) of a single issuer and
funds the purchase by issuing two types of securities: (1)
puttable floating-rate certificates (“floaters”) and (2) inverse
floating-rate residual interests (“residuals”). The floaters are
typically purchased by money market funds or other short-term
investors and may be tendered, with requisite notice, to the
TOB trust. The residuals are retained by the investor seeking to
finance its municipal bond investment. TOB transactions
where the residual is held by a third-party investor are
typically known as customer TOB trusts, and non-customer
TOB trusts are transactions where the Residual is retained by
the Firm. Customer TOB trusts are sponsored by a third party;
refer to page 247 of this Note for further information. The
Firm serves as sponsor for all non-customer TOB transactions.
The Firm may provide various services to a TOB trust,
including remarketing agent, liquidity or tender option
provider, and/or sponsor.
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC may serve as a remarketing agent
on the floaters for TOB trusts. The remarketing agent is
responsible for establishing the periodic variable rate on the
floaters, conducting the initial placement and remarketing
tendered floaters. The remarketing agent may, but is not
obligated to, make markets in floaters. Floaters held by the
Firm were not material during 2019 and 2018.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. or J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
often serves as the sole liquidity or tender option provider for
the TOB trusts. The liquidity provider’s obligation to
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 245
Notes to consolidated financial statements
perform is conditional and is limited by certain events
(“Termination Events”), which include bankruptcy or failure to
pay by the municipal bond issuer or credit enhancement
provider, an event of taxability on the municipal bonds or the
immediate downgrade of the municipal bond to below
investment grade. In addition, the liquidity provider’s exposure
is typically further limited by the high credit quality of the
underlying municipal bonds, the excess collateralization in the
vehicle, or, in certain transactions, the reimbursement
agreements with the Residual holders. Holders of the floaters may “put,” or tender, their floaters to
the TOB trust. If the remarketing agent cannot successfully
remarket the floaters to another investor, the liquidity provider
either provides a loan to the TOB trust for the TOB trust’s
purchase of the floaters, or it directly purchases the tendered
floaters.
TOB trusts are considered to be variable interest entities. The
Firm consolidates non-customer TOB trusts because as the
Residual holder, the Firm has the right to make decisions that
significantly impact the economic performance of the
municipal bond vehicle, and it has the right to receive benefits
and bear losses that could potentially be significant to the
municipal bond vehicle.
Consolidated VIE assets and liabilities
The following table presents information on assets and liabilities related to VIEs consolidated by the Firm as of December 31, 2019
and 2018.
 Assets Liabilities
December 31, 2019
(in millions) Trading assets Loans Other(b)  Total
assets(c)Beneficial
interests in
VIE assets(d) Other(e)Total
liabilities
VIE program type       
Firm-sponsored credit card trusts $ —$ 14,986$ 266$ 15,252 $ 6,461$ 6$ 6,467
Firm-administered multi-seller conduits 1 25,183 355 25,539 9,223 36 9,259
Municipal bond vehicles 1,903 — 4 1,907 1,881 3 1,884
Mortgage securitization entities(a) 66 2,762 64 2,892 276 130 406
Other 663 — 192 855 — 272 272
Total $ 2,633$ 42,931$ 881$ 46,445 $ 17,841$ 447$ 18,288
       
 Assets Liabilities
December 31, 2018
(in millions) Trading assets Loans Other(b)  Total
assets(c)Beneficial
interests in
VIE assets(d) Other(e)Total
liabilities
VIE program type       
Firm-sponsored credit card trusts $ —$ 31,760$ 491$ 32,251 $ 13,404$ 12$ 13,416
Firm-administered multi-seller conduits — 24,411 300 24,711 4,842 33 4,875
Municipal bond vehicles 1,779 — 4 1,783 1,685 3 1,688
Mortgage securitization entities(a) 53 3,285 40 3,378 308 161 469
Other 134 — 178 312 2 103 105
Total $ 1,966$ 59,456$ 1,013$ 62,435 $ 20,241$ 312$ 20,553
(a)Includes residential and commercial mortgage securitizations.
(b)Includes assets classified as cash and other assets on the Consolidated balance sheets.
(c)The assets of the consolidated VIEs included in the program types above are used to settle the liabilities of those entities. The assets and liabilities include third-
party assets and liabilities of consolidated VIEs and exclude intercompany balances that eliminate in consolidation.
(d)The interest-bearing beneficial interest liabilities issued by consolidated VIEs are classified in the line item on the Consolidated balance sheets titled,
“Beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities.” The holders of these beneficial interests generally do not have recourse to the general
credit of JPMorgan Chase. Included in beneficial interests in VIE assets are long-term beneficial interests of $6.7 billion and $13.7 billion at December 31, 2019
and 2018, respectively. Refer to Note 20 for additional information on interest-bearing long-term beneficial interests.
(e)Includes liabilities classified as accounts payable and other liabilities on the Consolidated balance sheets.
246 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
VIEs sponsored by third parties
The Firm enters into transactions with VIEs structured by other
parties. These include, for example, acting as a derivative
counterparty, liquidity provider, investor, underwriter,
placement agent, remarketing agent, trustee or custodian.
These transactions are conducted at arm’s-length, and
individual credit decisions are based on the analysis of the
specific VIE, taking into consideration the quality of the
underlying assets. Where the Firm does not have the power to
direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact
the VIE’s economic performance, or a variable interest that
could potentially be significant, the Firm generally does not
consolidate the VIE, but it records and reports these positions
on its Consolidated balance sheets in the same manner it would
record and report positions in respect of any other third-party
transaction.
Tax credit vehicles
The Firm holds investments in unconsolidated tax credit
vehicles, which are limited partnerships and similar entities
that own and operate affordable housing, energy, and other
projects. These entities are primarily considered VIEs. A third
party is typically the general partner or managing member and
has control over the significant activities of the tax credit
vehicles, and accordingly the Firm does not consolidate tax
credit vehicles. The Firm generally invests in these
partnerships as a limited partner and earns a return primarily
through the receipt of tax credits allocated to the projects. The
maximum loss exposure, represented by equity investments
and funding commitments, was $19.1 billion and $16.5 billion,
of which $5.5 billion and $4.0 billion was unfunded at
December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. In order to reduce
the risk of loss, the Firm assesses each project and withholds
varying amounts of its capital investment until the project
qualifies for tax credits. Refer to Note 25 for further
information on affordable housing tax credits. Refer to Note 28
for more information on off-balance sheet lending-related
commitments.
Customer municipal bond vehicles (TOB trusts)
The Firm may provide various services to customer TOB
trusts, including remarketing agent, liquidity or tender option
provider. In certain customer TOB transactions, the Firm, as
liquidity provider, has entered into a reimbursement agreement
with the Residual holder. In those transactions, upon the
termination of the vehicle, the Firm has recourse to the third-
party Residual holders for any shortfall. The Firm does not
have any intent to protect Residual holders from potential
losses on any of the underlying municipal bonds. The Firm
does not consolidate customer TOB trusts, since the Firm does
not have the power to make decisions that significantly impact
the economic performance of the municipal bond vehicle. The
Firm’s maximum exposure as a liquidity provider to customer
TOB trusts at December 31, 2019 and 2018, was $5.5 billion
and $4.8 billion, respectively. The fair value of assets held by
such VIEs at December 31, 2019 and 2018 was $8.6 billion
and $7.7 billion, respectively. Refer to Note 28 for more
information on off-balance sheet lending-related commitments. Loan securitizations
The Firm has securitized and sold a variety of loans, including
residential mortgage, credit card, and commercial mortgage.
The purposes of these securitization transactions were to
satisfy investor demand and to generate liquidity for the Firm.
For loan securitizations in which the Firm is not required to
consolidate the trust, the Firm records the transfer of the loan
receivable to the trust as a sale when all of the following
accounting criteria for a sale are met: (1) the transferred
financial assets are legally isolated from the Firm’s creditors;
(2) the transferee or beneficial interest holder can pledge or
exchange the transferred financial assets; and (3) the Firm does
not maintain effective control over the transferred financial
assets (e.g., the Firm cannot repurchase the transferred assets
before their maturity and it does not have the ability to
unilaterally cause the holder to return the transferred assets).
For loan securitizations accounted for as a sale, the Firm
recognizes a gain or loss based on the difference between the
value of proceeds received (including cash, beneficial interests,
or servicing assets received) and the carrying value of the
assets sold. Gains and losses on securitizations are reported in
noninterest revenue.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 247
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Securitization activity
The following table provides information related to the Firm’s securitization activities for the years ended December 31, 2019,
2018 and 2017, related to assets held in Firm-sponsored securitization entities that were not consolidated by the Firm, and where
sale accounting was achieved at the time of the securitization.
 2019 2018  2017
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)Residential
mortgage(e)Commercial
and other(f)Residential
mortgage(e)Commercial
and other(f) Residential
mortgage(e)Commercial
and other(f)
Principal securitized $ 9,957$ 9,390 $ 6,431$ 10,159 $ 5,532$ 10,252
All cash flows during the period:(a)       
Proceeds received from loan sales as financial
instruments(b)(c) $ 10,238$ 9,544 $ 6,449$ 10,218 $ 5,661$ 10,340
Servicing fees collected(d) 287 2 319 2 338 3
Cash flows received on interests 507 237 411 301 463 918
(a)Excludes re-securitization transactions.
(b)Predominantly includes Level 2 assets.
(c)The carrying value of the loans accounted for at fair value approximated the proceeds received upon loan sale.
(d)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
(e)Includes prime mortgages only . Excludes loan securitization activity related to U.S. GSEs and government agencies.
(f)Includes commercial mortgage and other consumer loans.
Key assumptions used to value retained interests originated
during the year are shown in the table below.
Year ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017
Residential mortgage retained interest:
Weighted-average life (in years) 4.8 7.6 4.8
Weighted-average discount rate 7.4% 3.6% 2.9%
Commercial mortgage retained interest:  
Weighted-average life (in years) 6.4 5.3 7.1
Weighted-average discount rate 4.1% 4.0% 4.4% Loans and excess MSRs sold to U.S. government-sponsored
enterprises and loans in securitization transactions
pursuant to Ginnie Mae guidelines
In addition to the amounts reported in the securitization
activity tables above, the Firm, in the normal course of
business, sells originated and purchased mortgage loans and
certain originated excess MSRs on a nonrecourse basis,
predominantly to U.S. GSEs. These loans and excess MSRs
are sold primarily for the purpose of securitization by the U.S.
GSEs, who provide certain guarantee provisions (e.g., credit
enhancement of the loans). The Firm also sells loans into
securitization transactions pursuant to Ginnie Mae guidelines;
these loans are typically insured or guaranteed by another U.S.
government agency. The Firm does not consolidate the
securitization vehicles underlying these transactions as it is not
the primary beneficiary. For a limited number of loan sales, the
Firm is obligated to share a portion of the credit risk associated
with the sold loans with the purchaser. Refer to Note 28 for
additional information about the Firm’s loan sales- and
securitization-related indemnifications. Refer to Note 15 for
additional information about the impact of the Firm’s sale of
certain excess MSRs.
248 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
The following table summarizes the activities related to loans
sold to the U.S. GSEs, and loans in securitization transactions
pursuant to Ginnie Mae guidelines.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Carrying value of loans sold $ 92,349$ 44,609$ 64,542
Proceeds received from loan
sales as cash $ 73$ 9$ 117
Proceeds from loan sales as
securities(a)(b) 91,422 43,671 63,542
Total proceeds received from
loan sales(c) $ 91,495$ 43,680$ 63,659
Gains/(losses) on loan sales(d)
(e) $ 499$ (93)$ 163
(a)Includes securities from U.S. GSEs and Ginnie Mae that are generally sold
shortly after receipt or retained as part of the Firm’s investment securities
portfolio.
(b)Included in level 2 assets.
(c)Excludes the value of MSRs retained upon the sale of loans.
(d)Gains/(losses) on loan sales include the value of MSRs.
(e)The carrying value of the loans accounted for at fair value approximated
the proceeds received upon loan sale.
Options to repurchase delinquent loans
In addition to the Firm’s obligation to repurchase certain loans
due to material breaches of representations and warranties as
discussed in Note 28, the Firm also has the option to
repurchase delinquent loans that it services for Ginnie Mae
loan pools, as well as for other U.S. government agencies
under certain arrangements. The Firm typically elects to
repurchase delinquent loans from Ginnie Mae loan pools as it continues to service them and/or manage the
foreclosure process in accordance with the applicable
requirements, and such loans continue to be insured or
guaranteed. When the Firm’s repurchase option becomes
exercisable, such loans must be reported on the Consolidated
balance sheets as a loan with a corresponding liability. Refer to
Note 12 for additional information.
The following table presents loans the Firm repurchased or had
an option to repurchase, real estate owned, and foreclosed
government-guaranteed residential mortgage loans recognized
on the Firm’s Consolidated balance sheets as of December 31,
2019 and 2018. Substantially all of these loans and real estate
are insured or guaranteed by U.S. government agencies.
December 31,
(in millions) 2019 2018
Loans repurchased or option to repurchase(a) $ 2,941$ 7,021
Real estate owned 41 75
Foreclosed government-guaranteed residential
mortgage loans(b) 198 361
(a)Predominantly all of these amounts relate to loans that have been
repurchased from Ginnie Mae loan pools.
(b)Relates to voluntary repurchases of loans, which are included in accrued
interest and accounts receivable.
Loan delinquencies and liquidation losses
The table below includes information about components of nonconsolidated securitized financial assets held in Firm-sponsored
private-label securitization entities, in which the Firm has continuing involvement, and delinquencies as of December 31, 2019 and
2018.
 Securitized assets 90 days past due Net liquidation losses(a)
As of or for the year ended December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
Securitized loans      
Residential mortgage:      
Prime/ Alt-A & option ARMs $48,734$50,679 $ 2,449$ 3,354 $ 579$ 610
Subprime 13,490 15,434 1,813 2,478 532 (169)
Commercial and other 80,878 79,387 187 225 445 280
Total loans securitized $143,102$145,500 $ 4,449$ 6,057 $ 1,556$ 721
(a)Includes liquidation gains as a result of private label mortgage settlement payments during the first quarter of 2018, which were reflected as asset recoveries by trustees.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 249
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 15 – Goodwill and Mortgage servicing rights
Goodwill
Goodwill is recorded upon completion of a business
combination as the difference between the purchase price and
the fair value of the net assets acquired. Subsequent to initial
recognition, goodwill is not amortized but is tested for
impairment during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, or
more often if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes
in the business climate, indicate there may be impairment.
The goodwill associated with each business combination is
allocated to the related reporting units, which are determined
based on how the Firm’s businesses are managed and how they
are reviewed by the Firm’s Operating Committee. The
following table presents goodwill attributed to the business
segments.
December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Consumer & Community Banking $ 31,041$30,984$31,013
Corporate & Investment Bank 6,942 6,770 6,776
Commercial Banking 2,982 2,860 2,860
Asset & Wealth Management 6,858 6,857 6,858
Total goodwill $ 47,823$47,471$47,507
The following table presents changes in the carrying amount of
goodwill.
Year ended December 31, (in
millions) 2019 2018 2017
Balance at beginning of period $ 47,471 $ 47,507 $ 47,288
Changes during the period from:  
Business combinations(a) 349 — 199
Other(b) 3 (36) 20
Balance at December 31, $ 47,823 $ 47,471 $ 47,507
(a)For 2019, represents goodwill associated with the acquisition of InstaMed.
This goodwill was allocated to CIB, CB and CCB. For 2017, represents
CCB goodwill in connection with an acquisition.
(b)Primarily relates to foreign currency adjustments. Goodwill impairment testing
The Firm’s goodwill was not impaired at December 31, 2019,
2018, and 2017.
The goodwill impairment test is performed in two steps. In the
first step, the current fair value of each reporting unit is
compared with its carrying value. If the fair value is in excess
of the carrying value, then the reporting unit’s goodwill is
considered not to be impaired. If the fair value is less than the
carrying value, then a second step is performed. In the second
step, the implied current fair value of the reporting unit’s
goodwill is determined by comparing the fair value of the
reporting unit (as determined in step one) to the fair value of
the net assets of the reporting unit, as if the reporting unit were
being acquired in a business combination. The resulting
implied current fair value of goodwill is then compared with
the carrying value of the reporting unit’s goodwill. If the
carrying value of the goodwill exceeds its implied current fair
value, then an impairment charge is recognized for the excess.
If the carrying value of goodwill is less than its implied current
fair value, then no goodwill impairment is recognized.
The Firm uses the reporting units’ allocated capital plus
goodwill and other intangible assets as a proxy for the carrying
values of equity for the reporting units in the goodwill
impairment testing. Reporting unit equity is determined on a
similar basis as the allocation of capital to the LOBs which
takes into consideration a variety of factors including capital
levels of similarly rated peers and applicable regulatory capital
requirements. Proposed LOB equity levels are incorporated
into the Firm’s annual budget process, which is reviewed by
the Firm’s Board of Directors. Allocated capital is further
reviewed periodically and updated as needed.
250 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
The primary method the Firm uses to estimate the fair value of
its reporting units is the income approach. This approach
projects cash flows for the forecast period and uses the
perpetuity growth method to calculate terminal values. These
cash flows and terminal values are then discounted using an
appropriate discount rate. Projections of cash flows are based
on the reporting units’ earnings forecasts which are reviewed
with senior management of the Firm. The discount rate used
for each reporting unit represents an estimate of the cost of
equity for that reporting unit and is determined considering the
Firm’s overall estimated cost of equity (estimated using the
Capital Asset Pricing Model), as adjusted for the risk
characteristics specific to each reporting unit (for example, for
higher levels of risk or uncertainty associated with the business
or management’s forecasts and assumptions). To assess the
reasonableness of the discount rates used for each reporting
unit management compares the discount rate to the estimated
cost of equity for publicly traded institutions with similar
businesses and risk characteristics. In addition, the weighted
average cost of equity (aggregating the various reporting units)
is compared with the Firm’s overall estimated cost of equity to
ensure reasonableness.
The valuations derived from the discounted cash flow analysis
are then compared with market-based trading and transaction
multiples for relevant competitors. Trading and transaction
comparables are used as general indicators to assess the
general reasonableness of the estimated fair values, although
precise conclusions generally cannot be drawn due to the
differences that naturally exist between the Firm’s businesses
and competitor institutions. Management also takes into
consideration a comparison between the aggregate fair values
of the Firm’s reporting units and JPMorgan Chase’s market
capitalization. In evaluating this comparison, management
considers several factors, including (i) a control premium that
would exist in a market transaction, (ii) factors related to the
level of execution risk that would exist at the firmwide level
that do not exist at the reporting unit level and (iii) short-term
market volatility and other factors that do not directly affect
the value of individual reporting units.
Declines in business performance, increases in credit losses,
increases in capital requirements, as well as deterioration in
economic or market conditions, adverse regulatory or
legislative changes or increases in the estimated market cost of
equity, could cause the estimated fair values of the Firm’s
reporting units or their associated goodwill to decline in the
future, which could result in a material impairment charge to
earnings in a future period related to some portion of the
associated goodwill. Mortgage servicing rights
MSRs represent the fair value of expected future cash flows
for performing servicing activities for others. The fair value
considers estimated future servicing fees and ancillary
revenue, offset by estimated costs to service the loans, and
generally declines over time as net servicing cash flows are
received, effectively amortizing the MSR asset against
contractual servicing and ancillary fee income. MSRs are
either purchased from third parties or recognized upon sale or
securitization of mortgage loans if servicing is retained.
As permitted by U.S. GAAP, the Firm has elected to account
for its MSRs at fair value. The Firm treats its MSRs as a single
class of servicing assets based on the availability of market
inputs used to measure the fair value of its MSR asset and its
treatment of MSRs as one aggregate pool for risk management
purposes. The Firm estimates the fair value of MSRs using an
option-adjusted spread (“OAS”) model, which projects MSR
cash flows over multiple interest rate scenarios in conjunction
with the Firm’s prepayment model, and then discounts these
cash flows at risk-adjusted rates. The model considers portfolio
characteristics, contractually specified servicing fees,
prepayment assumptions, delinquency rates, costs to service,
late charges and other ancillary revenue, and other economic
factors. The Firm compares fair value estimates and
assumptions to observable market data where available, and
also considers recent market activity and actual portfolio
experience.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 251
Notes to consolidated financial statements
The fair value of MSRs is sensitive to changes in interest rates,
including their effect on prepayment speeds. MSRs typically
decrease in value when interest rates decline because declining
interest rates tend to increase prepayments and therefore
reduce the expected life of the net servicing cash flows that
comprise the MSR asset. Conversely, securities (e.g.,
mortgage-backed securities), principal-only certificates and
certain derivatives (i.e., those for which the Firm receives fixed-rate interest payments)
increase in value when interest rates decline. JPMorgan Chase
uses combinations of derivatives and securities to manage the
risk of changes in the fair value of MSRs. The intent is to
offset any interest-rate related changes in the fair value of
MSRs with changes in the fair value of the related risk
management instruments.
The following table summarizes MSR activity for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017.
As of or for the year ended December 31, (in millions, except where otherwise noted) 2019 2018 2017
Fair value at beginning of period $ 6,130 $ 6,030 $ 6,096
MSR activity:      
Originations of MSRs 1,384 931 1,103
Purchase of MSRs 105 315 —
Disposition of MSRs(a) (789) (636) (140)
Net additions 700 610 963
Changes due to collection/realization of expected cash flows (951) (740) (797)
Changes in valuation due to inputs and assumptions:      
Changes due to market interest rates and other(b) (893) 300 (202)
Changes in valuation due to other inputs and assumptions:      
Projected cash flows (e.g., cost to service) (333)(e) 15 (102)
Discount rates 153 24 (19)
Prepayment model changes and other(c) (107) (109) 91
Total changes in valuation due to other inputs and assumptions (287) (70) (30)
Total changes in valuation due to inputs and assumptions (1,180) 230 (232)
Fair value at December 31, $ 4,699 $ 6,130 $ 6,030
Change in unrealized gains/(losses) included in income related to MSRs held at December 31, $ (1,180) $ 230 $ (232)
Contractual service fees, late fees and other ancillary fees included in income 1,639 1,778 1,886
Third-party mortgage loans serviced at December 31, (in billions) 522.0 521.0 555.0
Servicer advances, net of an allowance for uncollectible amounts, at December 31, (in billions)(d) 2.0 3.0 4.0
(a)Includes excess MSRs transferred to agency-sponsored trusts in exchange for stripped mortgage backed securities (“SMBS”). In each transaction, a portion of
the SMBS was acquired by third parties at the transaction date; the Firm acquired the remaining balance of those SMBS as trading securities.
(b)Represents both the impact of changes in estimated future prepayments due to changes in market interest rates, and the difference between actual and expected
prepayments.
(c)Represents changes in prepayments other than those attributable to changes in market interest rates.
(d)Represents amounts the Firm pays as the servicer (e.g., scheduled principal and interest, taxes and insurance), which will generally be reimbursed within a short
period of time after the advance from future cash flows from the trust or the underlying loans. The Firm’s credit risk associated with these servicer advances is
minimal because reimbursement of the advances is typically senior to all cash payments to investors. In addition, the Firm maintains the right to stop payment to
investors if the collateral is insufficient to cover the advance. However, certain of these servicer advances may not be recoverable if they were not made in
accordance with applicable rules and agreements.
(e)The decrease in projected cash flows was largely related to default servicing assumption updates.
252 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
The following table presents the components of mortgage fees
and related income (including the impact of MSR risk
management activities) for the years ended December 31,
2019, 2018 and 2017.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2019 2018 2017
CCB mortgage fees and related
income    
Net production revenue $1,618 $ 268 $ 636
Net mortgage servicing revenue:    
Operating revenue:    
Loan servicing revenue 1,533 1,835 2,014
Changes in MSR asset fair value
due to collection/realization of
expected cash flows (951) (740) (795)
Total operating revenue 582 1,095 1,219
Risk management:    
Changes in MSR asset fair value
due to market interest rates and
other(a) (893) 300 (202)
Other changes in MSR asset fair
value due to other inputs and
assumptions in model(b) (287) (70) (30)
Change in derivative fair value
and other 1,015 (341) (10)
Total risk management (165) (111) (242)
Total net mortgage servicing
revenue 417 984 977
Total CCB mortgage fees and
related income 2,035 1,252 1,613
All other 1 2 3
Mortgage fees and related income $2,036 $1,254 $1,616
(a)Represents both the impact of changes in estimated future prepayments
due to changes in market interest rates, and the difference between actual
and expected prepayments.
(b)Represents the aggregate impact of changes in model inputs and
assumptions such as projected cash flows (e.g., cost to service), discount
rates and changes in prepayments other than those attributable to changes
in market interest rates (e.g., changes in prepayments due to changes in
home prices). The table below outlines the key economic assumptions used
to determine the fair value of the Firm’s MSRs at
December 31, 2019 and 2018, and outlines the sensitivities of
those fair values to immediate adverse changes in those
assumptions, as defined below.
December 31,
(in millions, except rates) 2019  2018
Weighted-average prepayment speed
assumption (constant prepayment rate) 11.67% 8.78%
Impact on fair value of 10% adverse
change $ (200) $ (205)
Impact on fair value of 20% adverse
change (384) (397)
Weighted-average option adjusted spread(a)
(b) 7.93% 7.87%
Impact on fair value of 100 basis points
adverse change $ (169) $ (235)
Impact on fair value of 200 basis points
adverse change (326) (452)
(a)Includes the impact of operational risk and regulatory capital.
(b)The prior period amount has been revised to conform with the current
period presentation.
Changes in fair value based on variations in assumptions
generally cannot be easily extrapolated, because the
relationship of the change in the assumptions to the change in
fair value are often highly interrelated and may not be linear.
In this table, the effect that a change in a particular assumption
may have on the fair value is calculated without changing any
other assumption. In reality, changes in one factor may result
in changes in another, which would either magnify or
counteract the impact of the initial change.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 253
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 16 – Premises and equipment
Premises and equipment, including leasehold improvements,
are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and
amortization. JPMorgan Chase computes depreciation using
the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of an
asset. For leasehold improvements, the Firm uses the straight-
line method computed over the lesser of the remaining term of
the leased facility or the estimated useful life of the leased
asset.
JPMorgan Chase capitalizes certain costs associated with the
acquisition or development of internal-use software. Once the
software is ready for its intended use, these costs are amortized
on a straight-line basis over the software’s expected useful life
and reviewed for impairment on an ongoing basis.
Note 17 – Deposits
At December 31, 2019 and 2018, noninterest-bearing and
interest-bearing deposits were as follows.
December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018
U.S. offices  
Noninterest-bearing (included $22,637
and $17,204 at fair value)(a)(b) $ 395,667 $ 386,709
Interest-bearing (included $2,534 and
$2,487 at fair value)(a)(b) 876,156 813,881
Total deposits in U.S. offices 1,271,823 1,200,590
Non-U.S. offices  
Noninterest-bearing (included $1,980 and
$2,367 at fair value)(a)(b) 20,087 21,459
Interest-bearing (included $1,438 and
$1,159 at fair value)(a)(b) 270,521 248,617
Total deposits in non-U.S. offices 290,608 270,076
Total deposits $1,562,431 $1,470,666
(a)Includes structured notes classified as deposits for which the fair value
option has been elected. Refer to Note 3 for further discussion.
(b)In the second quarter of 2019, the Firm reclassified balances related to
certain structured notes from interest-bearing to noninterest-bearing
deposits as the associated returns are recorded in principal transactions
revenue and not in net interest income. This change was applied
retrospectively and, accordingly, prior period amounts were revised to
conform with the current presentation.
At December 31, 2019 and 2018, time deposits in
denominations of $250,000 or more were as follows.
December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018
U.S. offices $ 44,127 $ 25,119
Non-U.S. offices 50,840 41,661
Total $ 94,967 $ 66,780 At December 31, 2019, the maturities of interest-bearing time
deposits were as follows.
December 31, 2019
(in millions)    
U.S. Non-U.S. Total
2020 $ 60,614 $ 49,443$ 110,057
2021 3,700 123 3,823
2022 709 89 798
2023 175 13 188
2024 534 357 891
After 5 years 301 39 340
Total $ 66,033 $ 50,064$ 116,097
Note 18 - Leases
Lease commitments
Effective January 1, 2019, the Firm adopted new guidance that
requires lessees to recognize on the Consolidated balance
sheets all leases with lease terms greater than twelve months as
a lease liability with a corresponding right-of-use (“ROU”)
asset. Accordingly, the Firm recognized operating lease
liabilities and ROU assets of $8.2 billion and $8.1 billion,
respectively. The adoption of the new lease guidance did not
have a material impact on the Firm’s Consolidated statements
of income. The change in accounting due to the adoption of the
new lease guidance did not result in a material change to the
future net minimum rental payments/receivables or to the net
rental expense when compared to December 31, 2018.
Firm as lessee
At December 31, 2019, JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries
were obligated under a number of noncancelable leases,
predominantly operating leases for premises and equipment
used primarily for business purposes. These leases generally
have terms of 20 years or less, determined based on the
contractual maturity of the lease, and include periods covered
by options to extend or terminate the lease when the Firm is
reasonably certain that it will exercise those options. None of
these lease agreements impose restrictions on the Firm’s ability
to pay dividends, engage in debt or equity financing
transactions or enter into further lease agreements. Certain of
these leases contain escalation clauses that will increase rental
payments based on maintenance, utility and tax increases,
which are non-lease components. The Firm elected not to
separate lease and non-lease components of a contract for its
real estate leases. As such, real estate lease payments represent
payments on both lease and non-lease components.
254 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Operating lease liabilities and ROU assets are recognized at
the lease commencement date based on the present value of the
future minimum lease payments over the lease term. The
future lease payments are discounted at a rate that represents
the Firm’s collateralized borrowing rate for financing
instruments of a similar term and are included in accounts
payable and other liabilities. The operating lease ROU asset,
included in premises and equipment, also includes any lease
prepayments made, plus initial direct costs incurred, less any
lease incentives received. Rental expense associated with
operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the
lease term, and generally included in occupancy expense in the
Consolidated statements of income. The following tables
provide information related to the Firm’s operating leases:
December 31,
(in millions, except where otherwise noted) 
2019
Right-of-use assets $ 8,190
Lease liabilities 8,505
Weighted average remaining lease term (in years) 8.8
Weighted average discount rate 3.68%
Supplemental cash flow information  
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of
lease liabilities - operating cash flows $ 1,572
Supplemental non-cash information  
Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for operating
lease obligations $ 1,413
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2019
Rental expense  
Gross rental expense $ 2,057
Sublease rental income (184)
Net rental expense $ 1,873
The following table presents future payments under operating
leases as of December 31, 2019:
Year ended December 31, (in millions)  
2020 $ 1,604
2021 1,447
2022 1,257
2023 1,081
2024 944
After 2024 3,757
Total future minimum lease payments 10,090
Less: Imputed interest (1,585)
Total $ 8,505
In addition to the table above, as of December 31, 2019, the
Firm had additional future operating lease commitments of
$1.2 billion that were signed but had not yet commenced.
These operating leases will commence between 2020 and 2022
with lease terms up to 25 years. Firm as lessor
The Firm provides auto and equipment lease financing to its
customers through lease arrangements with lease terms that
may contain renewal, termination and/or purchase options.
Generally, the Firm’s lease financings are operating leases.
These assets are recognized in other assets on the Firm’s
Consolidated balance sheets and are depreciated on a straight-
line basis over the lease term to reduce the asset to its
estimated residual value. Depreciation expense is included in
technology, communications and equipment expense in the
Consolidated statements of income. The Firm’s lease income is
generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease
term and is included in other income in the Consolidated
statements of income.
On a periodic basis, the Firm assesses leased assets for
impairment, and if the carrying amount of the leased asset
exceeds the undiscounted cash flows from the lease payments
and the estimated residual value upon disposition of the leased
asset, an impairment loss is recognized.
The risk of loss on auto and equipment leased assets relating to
the residual value of the leased assets is monitored through
projections of the asset residual values at lease origination and
periodic review of residual values, and is mitigated through
arrangements with certain manufacturers or lessees. 
The following table presents the carrying value of assets
subject to leases reported on the Consolidated balance sheets:
December 31,
(in millions) 2019 2018
Carrying value of assets subject to
operating leases, net of accumulated
depreciation $ 23,587$ 21,428
Accumulated depreciation 6,121 5,303
The following table presents the Firm’s operating lease income
and the related depreciation expense on the Consolidated
statements of income:
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)  2019 2018 2017
Operating lease income $ 5,455$ 4,540$ 3,611
Depreciation expense  4,157 3,522 2,808
The following table presents future receipts under operating
leases as of December 31, 2019:
Year ended December 31, (in millions)
2020 $ 4,168
2021 2,733
2022 1,025
2023 86
2024 37
After 2024 52
Total future minimum lease receipts $ 8,101
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 255
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 19 – Accounts payable and other  liabilities
Accounts payable and other liabilities consist of brokerage
payables, which includes payables to customers, dealers and
clearing organizations, and payables from security purchases
that did not settle; accrued expenses, including income tax
payables and credit card rewards liability; and all other
liabilities, including obligations to return securities received as
collateral and litigation reserves.
The following table details the components of accounts
payable and other liabilities.
December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018
Brokerage payables $ 118,375$ 114,794
Other payables and liabilities(a) 92,032 81,916
Total accounts payable and other
liabilities $ 210,407$ 196,710
(a)Includes credit card rewards liability of $6.4 billion and $5.8 billion at
December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
256 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Note 20 – Long-term debt
JPMorgan Chase issues long-term debt denominated in various currencies, predominantly U.S. dollars, with both fixed and variable
interest rates. Included in senior and subordinated debt below are various equity-linked or other indexed instruments, which the
Firm has elected to measure at fair value. Changes in fair value are recorded in principal transactions revenue in the Consolidated
statements of income, except for unrealized gains/(losses) due to DVA which are recorded in OCI. The following table is a
summary of long-term debt carrying values (including unamortized premiums and discounts, issuance costs, valuation adjustments
and fair value adjustments, where applicable) by remaining contractual maturity as of December 31, 2019.
By remaining maturity at
December 31,
(in millions, except
rates)2019 2018
Under 1 year 1-5 years After 5 years Total Total
Parent company    
Senior debt: Fixed rate $ 13,580 $ 51,982 $ 95,636 $ 161,198 $ 145,820
 Variable rate 2,788 12,708 3,119 18,615 22,978
 Interest rates(a) 0.15-4.95% 0.50-4.63%  0.45-6.40% 0.15-6.40% 0.17-6.40%
Subordinated debt: Fixed rate $ — $ 5,109 $ 10,046 $ 15,155 $ 14,308
 Variable rate — —  9 9 9
 Interest rates(a) —% 3.38-3.88%  3.63-8.00% 3.38-8.00% 3.38-8.53%
 Subtotal$ 16,368 $ 69,799 $ 108,810 $ 194,977 $ 183,115
Subsidiaries    
Federal Home Loan
Banks advances: Fixed rate $ 4 $ 35 $ 96 $ 135 $ 155
 Variable rate 9,500 19,000 — 28,500 44,300
 Interest rates(a) 1.88-2.18% 1.67-2.24%  —% 1.67-2.24% 2.36-2.96%
Senior debt: Fixed rate $ 761 $ 6,955 $ 11,881 $ 19,597 $ 16,434
 Variable rate 11,650 24,938 9,273 45,861 35,601
 Interest rates(a) 7.50% 2.15-9.43%  1.00-7.50% 1.00-9.43% 1.00-7.50%
Subordinated debt: Fixed rate $ — $ 305 $ — $ 305 $ 301
 Variable rate — —  — — —
 Interest rates(a) —% 8.25% —% 8.25% 8.25%
 Subtotal$ 21,915 $ 51,233 $ 21,250 $ 94,398 $ 96,791
Junior subordinated
debt: Fixed rate $ — $ —  $ 693 $ 693 $ 659
 Variable rate — —  1,430 1,430 1,466
 Interest rates(a) —% —% 2.41-8.75% 2.41-8.75% 3.04-8.75%
 Subtotal$ — $ —  $ 2,123 $ 2,123 $ 2,125
Total long-term debt(b)
(c)(d) $ 38,283 $ 121,032 $ 132,183 $ 291,498(f)
(g) $ 282,031
Long-term beneficial
interests:   
Fixed rate $ 1,621 $ 1,369 $ — $ 2,990 $ 7,611
 Variable rate 900 2,572 276 3,748 6,103
 Interest rates 1.49-2.19% 0.00-2.77%  0.84-4.06% 0.00-4.06% 0.00-4.62%
Total long-term
beneficial interests(e) $ 2,521 $ 3,941 $ 276 $ 6,738 $ 13,714
(a)The interest rates shown are the range of contractual rates in effect at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, including non-U.S. dollar fixed- and variable-
rate issuances, which excludes the effects of the associated derivative instruments used in hedge accounting relationships, if applicable. The use of these
derivative instruments modifies the Firm’s exposure to the contractual interest rates disclosed in the table above. Including the effects of the hedge accounting
derivatives, the range of modified rates in effect at December 31, 2019, for total long-term debt was (0.02)% to 9.43%, versus the contractual range of 0.15% to
9.43% presented in the table above. The interest rate ranges shown exclude structured notes accounted for at fair value.
(b)Included long-term debt of $32.0 billion and $47.7 billion secured by assets totaling $186.1 billion and $207.0 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018,
respectively. The amount of long-term debt secured by assets does not include amounts related to hybrid instruments.
(c)Included $75.7 billion and $54.9 billion of long-term debt accounted for at fair value at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
(d)Included $13.6 billion and $11.2 billion of outstanding zero-coupon notes at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The aggregate principal amount of
these notes at their respective maturities is $39.3 billion and $37.4 billion, respectively. The aggregate principal amount reflects the contractual principal
payment at maturity, which may exceed the contractual principal payment at the Firm’s next call date, if applicable.
(e)Included on the Consolidated balance sheets in beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs. Also included $36 million and $28 million accounted for at fair
value at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Excluded short-term commercial paper and other short-term beneficial interests of $11.1 billion and $6.5
billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
(f)At December 31, 2019, long-term debt in the aggregate of $141.3 billion was redeemable at the option of JPMorgan Chase, in whole or in part, prior to maturity,
based on the terms specified in the respective instruments.
(g)The aggregate carrying values of debt that matures in each of the five years subsequent to 2019 is $38.3 billion in 2020, $45.8 billion in 2021, $19.6 billion in
2022, $29.7 billion in 2023 and $25.9 billion in 2024.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 257
Notes to consolidated financial statements
The weighted-average contractual interest rates for total long-
term debt excluding structured notes accounted for at fair value
were 3.13% and 3.28% as of December 31, 2019 and 2018,
respectively. In order to modify exposure to interest rate and
currency exchange rate movements, JPMorgan Chase utilizes
derivative instruments, primarily interest rate and cross-
currency interest rate swaps, in conjunction with some of its
debt issuances. The use of these instruments modifies the
Firm’s interest expense on the associated debt. The modified
weighted-average interest rates for total long-term debt,
including the effects of related derivative instruments, were
3.19% and 3.64% as of December 31, 2019 and 2018,
respectively.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. has guaranteed certain long-term debt
of its subsidiaries, including both long-term debt and
structured notes. These guarantees rank on parity with the
Firm’s other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. The
amount of such guaranteed long-term debt and structured notes
was $14.4 billion and $10.9 billion at December 31, 2019 and
2018, respectively.
The Firm’s unsecured debt does not contain requirements that
would call for an acceleration of payments, maturities or
changes in the structure of the existing debt, provide any
limitations on future borrowings or require additional
collateral, based on unfavorable changes in the Firm’s credit
ratings, financial ratios, earnings or stock price.
258 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Note 21 – Preferr ed stock
At December 31, 2019 and 2018, JPMorgan Chase was
authorized to issue 200 million shares of preferred stock, in
one or more series, with a par value of $1 per share. In the event of a liquidation or dissolution of the Firm,
JPMorgan Chase’s preferred stock then outstanding takes
precedence over the Firm’s common stock with respect to the
payment of dividends and the distribution of assets.
The following is a summary of JPMor gan Chase ’s non-cumulative preferred stock outstanding as of December 31, 2019  and 2018 .
 Shares(a)Carrying value
 (in millions)  
Issue dateContractual rate
in effect at
December 31,
2019Earliest
redemption
date(b)Floating
annualized
rate of
three-month
LIBOR/Term
SOFR plus:Dividend declared per share(c)  
 December 31, December 31,
 Year ended December 31,  
 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2017  
Fixed-rate:     
Series P— 90,000 $ — $ 900 2/5/2013 —% 3/1/2018 NA $545.00 $545.00 $545.00 
Series T— 92,500 — 925 1/30/2014 — 3/1/2019 NA 167.50 670.00 670.00 
Series W— 88,000 — 880 6/23/2014 — 9/1/2019 NA 472.50 630.00 630.00 
Series Y143,000 143,000 1,430 1,430 2/12/2015 6.125 3/1/2020 NA 612.52 612.52 612.52 
Series
AA 142,500 142,500 1,425 1,425 6/4/2015 6.100 9/1/2020 NA 610.00 610.00 610.00 
Series
BB 115,000 115,000 1,150 1,150 7/29/2015 6.150 9/1/2020 NA 615.00 615.00 615.00 
Series
DD 169,625 169,625 1,696 1,696 9/21/2018 5.750 12/1/2023 NA 575.00 111.81 —  
Series EE185,000 — 1,850 — 1/24/2019 6.000 3/1/2024 NA 511.67 — — (d) 
Series
GG 90,000 — 900 — 11/7/2019 4.750 12/1/2024 NA — — — (e) 
Fixed-to-floating-rate:     
Series I 293,375 430,375 2,934 4,304 4/23/2008LIBOR +
3.47% 4/30/2018 LIBOR + 3.47% $593.23 $646.38 $790.00 (f) 
Series Q 150,000 150,000 1,500 1,500 4/23/2013 5.150 5/1/2023 LIBOR + 3.25 515.00 515.00 515.00 
Series R 150,000 150,000 1,500 1,500 7/29/2013 6.000 8/1/2023 LIBOR + 3.30 600.00 600.00 600.00 
Series S 200,000 200,000 2,000 2,000 1/22/2014 6.750 2/1/2024 LIBOR + 3.78 675.00 675.00 675.00 
Series U 100,000 100,000 1,000 1,000 3/10/2014 6.125 4/30/2024 LIBOR + 3.33 612.50 612.50 612.50 
Series V 250,000 250,000 2,500 2,500 6/9/2014LIBOR +
3.32% 7/1/2019 LIBOR + 3.32 534.09 500.00 500.00 (g) 
Series X 160,000 160,000 1,600 1,600 9/23/2014 6.100 10/1/2024 LIBOR + 3.33 610.00 610.00 610.00 
Series Z 200,000 200,000 2,000 2,000 4/21/2015 5.300 5/1/2020 LIBOR + 3.80 530.00 530.00 530.00 
Series
CC 125,750 125,750 1,258 1,258 10/20/2017 4.625 11/1/2022 LIBOR + 2.58 462.50 462.50 129.76 
Series FF 225,000 — 2,250 — 7/31/2019 5.000 8/1/2024 SOFR + 3.38 251.39 — — (h) 
Total
preferred
stock 2,699,2502,606,750 $26,993$26,068   
(a)Represented by depositary shares.
(b)Fixed-to-floating rate notes convert to a floating rate at the earliest redemption date.
(c)Dividends are declared quarterly. Dividends are payable quarterly on fixed-rate preferred stock. Dividends are payable semiannually on fixed-to-floating-rate
preferred stock while at a fixed rate, and payable quarterly after converting to a floating rate.
(d)Dividends in the amount of $211.67 per share were declared on April 12, 2019 and include dividends from the original issue date of January 24, 2019 through
May 31, 2019. Dividends in the amount of $150.00 per share were declared thereafter on July 10, 2019 and October 9, 2019.
(e)No dividends were declared for Series GG from the original issue date of November 7, 2019 through December 31, 2019.
(f)The dividend rate for Series I preferred stock became floating and payable quarterly starting on April 30, 2018; prior to which the dividend rate was fixed at
7.90% or $395.00 per share payable semi annually.
(g)The dividend rate for Series V preferred stock became floating and payable quarterly starting on July 1, 2019; prior to which the dividend rate was fixed at 5%
or $250.00 per share payable semi annually. The Firm declared a dividend of $144.11 and $139.98 per share on outstanding Series V preferred stock on August
15, 2019 and November 15, 2019, respectively.
(h)Dividends in the amount of $126.39 per share were declared on September 9, 2019 and include dividends from the original issue date of July 31, 2019 through
October 31, 2019. Dividends in the amount of $125.00 per share were declared thereafter on December 10, 2019.
Each series of preferred stock has a liquidation value and
redemption price per share of $10,000, plus accrued but unpaid
dividends. The aggregate liquidation value was $27.3 billion at
December 31, 2019.
On February 24, 2020, the Firm issued $1.5 billion of fixed-to-
floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock, Series II.
On January 31, 2020, the Firm announced that it will redeem
all $1.43 billion of its 6.125% non-cumulative preferred stock,
Series Y on March 1, 2020. On January 23, 2020, the Firm issued $3.0 billion of fixed-to-
floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock, Series HH.
On December 1, 2019, the Firm redeemed all $900 million of
its 5.45% non-cumulative preferred stock, Series P.
On November 7, 2019, the Firm issued $900 million of 4.75%
non-cumulative preferred stock, Series GG.
On October 30, 2019, the Firm redeemed $1.37 billion of its
fixed-to-floating rate non-cumulative perpetual preferred
stock, Series I.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 259
Notes to consolidated financial statements
On September 1, 2019, the Firm redeemed all $880 million of
its 6.30% non-cumulative preferred stock, Series W.
On July 31, 2019, the Firm issued $2.25 billion of fixed-to-
floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock, Series FF.
On March 1, 2019, the Firm redeemed $925 million of its
6.70% non-cumulative preferred stock, Series T.
On January 24, 2019, the Firm issued $1.85 billion of 6.00%
non-cumulative preferred stock, Series EE.
On October 30, 2018, the Firm redeemed $1.7 billion of its
fixed-to-floating rate non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock,
Series I.
On September 21, 2018, the Firm issued $1.7 billion of 5.75%
non-cumulative preferred stock, Series DD.
Dividends in the amount of $550.00 per share were declared
for series O from January 1, 2017 through redemption on
December 1, 2017.
Redemption rights
Each series of the Firm’s preferred stock may be redeemed on
any dividend payment date on or after the earliest redemption
date for that series. All outstanding preferred stock series
except Series I may also be redeemed following a “capital
treatment event,” as described in the terms of each series. Any
redemption of the Firm’s preferred stock is subject to non-
objection from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System (the “Federal Reserve”).
260 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Note 22 – Common stock
At December 31, 2019 and 2018, JPMorgan Chase was
authorized to issue 9.0 billion shares of common stock with a
par value of $1 per share.
Common shares issued (newly issued or reissuance from
treasury) by JPMorgan Chase during the years ended
December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 were as follows.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Total issued – balance at January
1 4,104.9 4,104.9 4,104.9
Treasury – balance at January 1 (829.1) (679.6) (543.7)
Repurchase (213.0) (181.5) (166.6)
Reissuance:  
Employee benefits and
compensation plans 20.4 21.7 24.5
Warrant exercise — 9.4 5.4
Employee stock purchase plans 0.8 0.9 0.8
Total reissuance 21.2 32.0 30.7
Total treasury – balance at
December 31 (1,020.9) (829.1) (679.6)
Outstanding at December 31 3,084.0 3,275.8 3,425.3
There were no warrants to purchase shares of common stock
(“Warrants”) outstanding at December 31, 2019, as any
Warrants that were not exercised on or before October 29,
2018, have expired. At December 31, 2017, the Firm had 15.0
million Warrants outstanding.
On June 27, 2019, in conjunction with the Federal Reserve’s
release of its 2019 CCAR results, the Firm’s Board of
Directors authorized a $29.4 billion common equity repurchase
program. As of December 31, 2019, $15.6 billion of authorized
repurchase capacity remained under the program. This
authorization includes shares repurchased to offset issuances
under the Firm’s share-based compensation plans. The following table sets forth the Firm’s repurchases of
common equity for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018
and 2017. There were no Warrants repurchased during any of
the years.
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Total number of shares of common
stock repurchased 213.0 181.5 166.6
Aggregate purchase price of common
stock repurchases $24,121 $19,983 $15,410
The Firm from time to time enters into written trading plans
under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to
facilitate repurchases in accordance with the common equity
repurchase program. A Rule 10b5-1 repurchase plan allows the
Firm to repurchase its equity during periods when it would not
otherwise be repurchasing common equity — for example,
during internal trading “blackout periods.” All purchases under
a Rule 10b5-1 plan must be made according to a predefined
plan established when the Firm is not aware of material
nonpublic information. Refer to Part II, Item 5: Market for
registrant’s common equity, related stockholder matters and
issuer purchases of equity securities, on page 30 for additional
information regarding repurchases of the Firm’s equity
securities.
As of December 31, 2019, approximately 70.5 million shares
of common stock were reserved for issuance under various
employee incentive, compensation, option and stock purchase
plans, and directors’ compensation plans.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 261
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Note 23 – Earnings per  shar e
Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is calculated using the two-
class method. Under the two-class method, all earnings
(distributed and undistributed) are allocated to common stock
and participating securities. JPMorgan Chase grants RSUs
under its share-based compensation programs, predominantly
all of which entitle recipients to receive nonforfeitable
dividends during the vesting period on a basis equivalent to
dividends paid to holders of the Firm’s common stock. These
unvested RSUs meet the definition of participating securities
based on their respective rights to receive nonforfeitable
dividends, and they are treated as a separate class of securities
in computing basic EPS. Participating securities are not
included as incremental shares in computing diluted EPS; refer
to Note 9 for additional information.
Diluted EPS incorporates the potential impact of contingently
issuable shares, including awards which require future service
as a condition of delivery of the underlying common stock.
Diluted EPS is calculated under both the two-class and
treasury stock methods, and the more dilutive amount is
reported. For each of the periods presented in the table below,
diluted EPS calculated under the two-class method was more
dilutive.
The following table presents the calculation of net income
applicable to common stockholders and basic and diluted EPS
for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions,
except per share amounts) 2019 2018 2017
Basic earnings per share  
Net income $ 36,431$ 32,474$ 24,441
Less: Preferred stock dividends 1,587 1,551 1,663
Net income applicable to common
equity 34,844 30,923 22,778
Less: Dividends and undistributed
earnings allocated to participating
securities 202 214 211
Net income applicable to common
stockholders $ 34,642$ 30,709$ 22,567
Total weighted-average basic shares
outstanding 3,221.5 3,396.4 3,551.6
Net income per share $ 10.75$ 9.04$ 6.35
Diluted earnings per share  
Net income applicable to common
stockholders $ 34,642$ 30,709$ 22,567
Total weighted-average basic shares
outstanding 3,221.5 3,396.4 3,551.6
Add: Dilutive impact of SARs and
employee stock options, unvested
PSUs and non-dividend-earning
RSUs, and warrants 8.9 17.6 25.2
Total weighted-average diluted
shares outstanding 3,230.4 3,414.0 3,576.8
Net income per share $ 10.72$ 9.00$ 6.31
262 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Note 24 – Accumulated other  compr ehensive income/(loss)
AOCI includes the after -tax change in unrealized gains and losses on investment securities, foreign currency translation adjustments
(including the impact of related derivatives), fair value changes of excluded components on fair value hedges, cash flow hedging
activities, net loss and prior service costs/(credit) related to  the Firm’ s defined benefit pension and OPEB plans, and fair value option-
elected liabilities arising from changes in  the Firm’ s own credit risk (DV A).
 Year ended
December 31,
(in millions)Unrealized
gains/(losses)
on investment
securitiesTranslation
adjustments, net of
hedges  Fair value
hedgesCash flow
hedges  Defined benefit pension
and OPEB plansDVA on fair value
option elected
liabilitiesAccumulated
other
comprehensive
income/(loss)  
 Balance at
December 31,
2016 $1,524 $ (164)  NA $ (100)  $ (2,259) $ (176) $ (1,175)
 Net change 640 (306)  NA 176  738 (192) 1,056
 Balance at
December 31,
2017 $2,164 $ (470)  $ — $ 76  $ (1,521) $ (368) $ (119)
 Cumulative effect
of changes in
accounting
principles:(a) 896 (277)  (54) 16  (414) (79) 88
 Net change (1,858) 20  (107) (201)  (373) 1,043  (1,476)
 Balance at
December 31,
2018 $1,202 $ (727)  $ (161)$ (109)  $ (2,308) $ 596  $ (1,507)
 Net change 2,855 20  30 172  964 (965) 3,076
 Balance at
December 31,
2019 $4,057 $ (707)  $ (131)$ 63  $ (1,344) $ (369) $ 1,569
(a)Represents the adjustment to AOCI as a result of the accounting standards adopted in the first quarter of 2018. Refer to Note 1 for additional information.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 263
Notes to consolidated financial statements
The following table presents the pre-tax and after -tax changes in the components of OCI.
 2019  2018  2017
Year ended December 31, (in millions) Pre-tax  Tax ef fect After -tax Pre-tax  Tax
effect After -tax Pre-tax Tax ef fect After -tax
Unrealized gains/(losses) on investment securities:          
Net unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period $4,025  $ (974)$3,051  $(2,825 ) $665 $(2,160 ) $944 $ (346) $ 598
Reclassification adjustment for realized (gains)/losses
included in net income (a) (258) 62 (196) 395 (93) 302 66 (24) 42
Net change 3,767  (912) 2,855  (2,430 ) 572 (1,858 ) 1,010 (370) 640
Translation adjustments (b):          
Translation (49) 33 (16) (1,078 ) 156 (922) 1,313 (801) 512
Hedges 46 (10) 36 1,236  (294) 942 (1,294 ) 476 (818)
Net change (3) 23 20 158 (138) 20 19 (325) (306)
Fair value hedges, net change (c): 39 (9) 30 (140) 33 (107) NA NA NA
Cash flow hedges:          
Net unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period 122 (28) 94 (245) 58 (187) 147 (55) 92
Reclassification adjustment for realized (gains)/losses
included in net income (d) 103 (25) 78 (18) 4 (14) 134 (50) 84
Net change 225 (53) 172 (263) 62 (201) 281 (105) 176
Defined benefit pension and OPEB plans:          
Prior service credit/(cost) arising during the period (5) 1 (4) (29) 7 (22) — — —
Net gain/(loss) arising during the period 1,005  (169) 836 (558) 102 (456) 802 (160) 642
Reclassification adjustments included in net income (e):          
Amortization of net loss 167 (36) 131 103 (24) 79 250 (90) 160
Amortization of prior service cost/(credit) 3 (1) 2 (23) 6 (17) (36) 13 (23)
Curtailment (gain)/loss — — — 21 (5) 16 — — —
Settlement (gain)/loss — — — 2 — 2 2 (1) 1
Foreign exchange and other (13) 12 (1) 34 (9) 25 (54) 12 (42)
Net change 1,157  (193) 964 (450) 77 (373) 964 (226) 738
DVA on fair  value option elected liabilities, net
change: $(1,264 ) $ 299 $(965) $1,364  $(321)$1,043  $(303)$ 111 $ (192)
Total other  compr ehensive income/(loss) $3,921  $ (845)$3,076  $(1,761 ) $285 $(1,476 ) $1,971 $ (915) $1,056
(a)The pre-tax amount is reported in investment securities gains/(losses) in the Consolidated statements of income.
(b)Reclassifications of pre-tax realized gains/(losses) on translation adjustments and related hedges are reported in other income/expense in the Consolidated
statements of income. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Firm reclassified net pre-tax gains of $7 million to other income and $1 million to other
expense, respectively. These amounts, which related to the liquidation of certain legal entities, are comprised of $18 million related to net investment hedge
gains and$10 million related to cumulative translation adjustments. During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Firm reclassified a net pre-tax loss of $168
million to other expense related to the liquidation of certain legal entities, $17 million related to net investment hedge losses and $151 million related to
cumulative translation adjustments. During the year ended December 31, 2017, the Firm reclassified a net pre-tax loss of $25 million to other expense related to
the liquidation of a legal entity, $50 million related to net investment hedge gains and $75 million related to cumulative translation adjustments.
(c)Represents changes in fair value of cross-currency swaps attributable to changes in cross-currency basis spreads, which are excluded from the assessment of
hedge effectiveness and recorded in other comprehensive income. The initial cost of cross-currency basis spreads is recognized in earnings as part of the accrual
of interest on the cross-currency swap.
(d)The pre-tax amounts are primarily recorded in noninterest revenue, net interest income and compensation expense in the Consolidated statements of income.
(e)The pre-tax amount is reported in other expense in the Consolidated statements of income.
264 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Note 25 – Income taxes
JPMorgan Chase and its eligible subsidiaries file a
consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. JPMorgan Chase
uses the asset and liability method to provide income taxes on
all transactions recorded in the Consolidated Financial
Statements. This method requires that income taxes reflect the
expected future tax consequences of temporary differences
between the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities for book
and tax purposes. Accordingly, a deferred tax asset or liability
for each temporary difference is determined based on the tax
rates that the Firm expects to be in effect when the underlying
items of income and expense are realized. JPMorgan Chase’s
expense for income taxes includes the current and deferred
portions of that expense. A valuation allowance is established
to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount the Firm expects to
realize.
Due to the inherent complexities arising from the nature of the
Firm’s businesses, and from conducting business and being
taxed in a substantial number of jurisdictions, significant
judgments and estimates are required to be made. Agreement
of tax liabilities between JPMorgan Chase and the many tax
jurisdictions in which the Firm files tax returns may not be
finalized for several years. Thus, the Firm’s final tax-related
assets and liabilities may ultimately be different from those
currently reported.
Effective tax rate and expense
The following table presents a reconciliation of the applicable
statutory U.S. federal income tax rate to the effective tax rate.
Effective tax rate    
Year ended December 31,  2019 2018 2017 
Statutory U.S. federal tax rate 21.0 % 21.0 % 35.0 % 
Increase/(decrease) in tax rate
resulting from:    
U.S. state and local income
taxes, net of U.S. federal
income tax benefit  3.5 4.0 2.2 
Tax-exempt income  (1.4) (1.5) (3.3) 
Non-U.S. earnings  1.8 0.6 (3.1)(a) 
Business tax credits  (4.4) (3.5) (4.2) 
Tax audit resolutions  (2.3) (0.1) (0.3) 
Impact of the TCJA  — (0.7) 5.4 
Other, net  — 0.5 0.2 
Effective tax rate  18.2 % 20.3 % 31.9 % 
(a)Predominantly includes earnings of U.K. subsidiaries that were deemed to
be reinvested indefinitely through December 31, 2017. Impact of the TCJA
2018
The Firm’s effective tax rate decreased in 2018 due to the
TCJA, including the reduction in the U.S. federal statutory
income tax rate as well as a $302 million net tax benefit
recorded in 2018 resulting from changes in the estimates
related to the remeasurement of certain deferred taxes and the
deemed repatriation tax on non-U.S. earnings. The change in
estimate was recorded under SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin
No. 118 (“SAB 118”) and the accounting under SAB 118 is
complete.
2017
The Firm’s effective tax rate increased in 2017 driven by a
$1.9 billion income tax expense representing the estimated
impact of the enactment of the TCJA. The $1.9 billion tax
expense was predominantly driven by a deemed repatriation of
the Firm’s unremitted non-U.S. earnings and adjustments to
the value of certain tax-oriented investments partially offset by
a benefit from the revaluation of the Firm’s net deferred tax
liability.
The deemed repatriation of the Firm’s unremitted non-U.S.
earnings is based on the post-1986 earnings and profits of each
controlled foreign corporation. The calculation resulted in an
estimated income tax expense of $3.7 billion.  Furthermore,
accounting for income taxes requires the remeasurement of
certain deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at
which they are expected to reverse in the future. The Firm
remeasured its deferred tax asset and liability balances in the
fourth quarter of 2017 to the new statutory U.S. federal income
tax rate of 21% as well as any federal benefit associated with
state and local deferred income taxes. The remeasurement
resulted in an estimated income tax benefit of $2.1 billion.
Adjustments were also recorded in 2017 to income tax expense
for certain tax-oriented investments. These adjustments were
driven by changes to affordable housing proportional
amortization resulting from the reduction of the federal income
tax rate under the TCJA. SAB 118 did not apply to these
adjustments.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 265
The following table reflects the components of income tax
expense/(benefit) included in the Consolidated statements of
income.
Income tax expense/(benefit)
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)  2019 2018  2017
Curr ent income tax expense/(benefit)     
U.S. federal  $ 3,284  $ 2,854  $ 5,718
Non-U.S.  2,103  2,077  2,400
U.S. state and local  1,778  1,638  1,029
Total curr ent income tax
expense/(benefit)  7,165  6,569  9,147
Deferr ed income tax
expense/(benefit)     
U.S. federal  709 1,359  2,174
Non-U.S.  20 (93) (144)
U.S. state and local  220 455 282
Total deferr ed income tax
expense/(benefit)  949 1,721  2,312
Total income tax expense  $ 8,114 $ 8,290  $11,459
Total income tax expense includes $1.1 billion, $54 million
and $252 million of tax benefits recorded in 2019, 2018, and
2017, respectively, resulting from the resolution of tax audits.
Tax effect of items recorded in stockholders’ equity
The preceding table does not reflect the tax effect of certain
items that are recorded each period directly in stockholders’
equity. The tax effect of all items recorded directly to
stockholders’ equity resulted in a decrease of $862 million in
2019, an increase of $172 million in 2018, and a decrease of
$915 million in 2017.
Results from Non-U.S. earnings
The following table presents the U.S. and non-U.S.
components of income before income tax expense.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)  2019 2018 2017
U.S.  $36,670$33,052 $27,103
Non-U.S.(a)  7,875 7,712 8,797
Income before income tax
expense  $44,545$40,764 $35,900
(a)For purposes of this table, non-U.S. income is defined as income
generated from operations located outside the U.S. Prior to December 31, 2017, U.S. federal income taxes had not
been provided on the undistributed earnings of certain non-
U.S. subsidiaries, to the extent that such earnings had been
reinvested abroad for an indefinite period of time. The Firm is
no longer maintaining the indefinite reinvestment assertion on
the undistributed earnings of those non-U.S. subsidiaries in
light of the enactment of the TCJA. The U.S. federal and state
and local income taxes associated with the undistributed and
previously untaxed earnings of those non-U.S. subsidiaries
was included in the deemed repatriation charge recorded as of
December 31, 2017. The Firm will recognize any taxes it may
incur on global intangible low tax income as income tax
expense in the period in which the tax is incurred.
Affordable housing tax credits
The Firm recognized $1.5 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.7 billion
of tax credits and other tax benefits associated with
investments in affordable housing projects within income tax
expense for the years 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The
amount of amortization of such investments reported in
income tax expense was $1.1 billion, $1.2 billion and $1.7
billion, respectively. The carrying value of these investments,
which are reported in other assets on the Firm’s Consolidated
balance sheets, was $8.6 billion and $7.9 billion at
December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The amount of
commitments related to these investments, which are reported
in accounts payable and other liabilities on the Firm’s
Consolidated balance sheets, was $2.8 billion and $2.3 billion
at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
266 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Deferred taxes
Deferred income tax expense/(benefit) results from differences
between assets and liabilities measured for financial reporting
purposes versus income tax return purposes. Deferred tax
assets are recognized if, in management’s judgment, their
realizability is determined to be more likely than not. If a
deferred tax asset is determined to be unrealizable, a valuation
allowance is established. The significant components of
deferred tax assets and liabilities are reflected in the following
table.
December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018
Deferred tax assets
Allowance for loan losses $ 3,400$ 3,433
Employee benefits 1,039 1,129
Accrued expenses and other 2,767 2,701
Non-U.S. operations 949 629
Tax attribute carryforwards 605 163
Gross deferred tax assets 8,760 8,055
Valuation allowance (557) (89)
Deferred tax assets, net of valuation
allowance $ 8,203$ 7,966
Deferred tax liabilities
Depreciation and amortization $ 2,852$ 2,533
Mortgage servicing rights, net of
hedges 2,354 2,586
Leasing transactions 5,598 4,719
Other, net 4,683 3,713
Gross deferred tax liabilities 15,487 13,551
Net deferred tax (liabilities)/assets $ (7,284)$ (5,585)
JPMorgan Chase has recorded deferred tax assets of $605
million at December 31, 2019, in connection with U.S. federal
and non-U.S. NOL carryforwards, foreign tax credit (“FTC”)
carryforwards, and state and local capital loss carryforwards.
At December 31, 2019, total U.S. federal NOL carryforwards
were $1.0 billion, non-U.S. NOL carryforwards were $80
million, FTC carryforwards were $329 million, and state and
local capital loss carryforwards were $1.1 billion. If not
utilized, a portion of the U.S. federal NOL carryforwards will
expire between 2022 and 2036 whereas others have an
unlimited carryforward period. Similarly, certain non-U.S.
NOL carryforwards will expire between 2029 and 2037
whereas others have an unlimited carryforward period. The
FTC carryforwards will expire in 2029 and the state and local
capital loss carryforwards will expire between 2020 and 2022. 
The valuation allowance at December 31, 2019, was due to the
state and local capital loss carryforwards, FTC carryforwards,
and certain non-U.S. deferred tax assets, including NOL
carryforwards. Unrecognized tax benefits
At December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, JPMorgan Chase’s
unrecognized tax benefits, excluding related interest expense
and penalties, were $4.0 billion, $4.9 billion and $4.7 billion,
respectively, of which $2.8 billion, $3.8 billion and $3.5
billion, respectively, if recognized, would reduce the annual
effective tax rate. Included in the amount of unrecognized tax
benefits are certain items that would not affect the effective tax
rate if they were recognized in the Consolidated statements of
income. These unrecognized items include the tax effect of
certain temporary differences, the portion of gross state and
local unrecognized tax benefits that would be offset by the
benefit from associated U.S. federal income tax deductions,
and the portion of gross non-U.S. unrecognized tax benefits
that would have offsets in other jurisdictions. JPMorgan Chase
is presently under audit by a number of taxing authorities,
most notably by the Internal Revenue Service as summarized
in the Tax examination status table below. As JPMorgan Chase
is presently under audit by a number of taxing authorities, it is
reasonably possible that over the next 12 months the resolution
of these examinations may increase or decrease the gross
balance of unrecognized tax benefits by as much as $0.5
billion. Upon settlement of an audit, the change in the
unrecognized tax benefit would result from payment or income
statement recognition.
The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning
and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Balance at January 1, $4,861 $4,747 $3,450
Increases based on tax positions
related to the current period 871 980 1,355
Increases based on tax positions
related to prior periods 10 649 626
Decreases based on tax positions
related to prior periods (706) (1,249) (350)
Decreases related to cash
settlements with taxing authorities (1,012) (266) (334)
Balance at December 31, $4,024 $4,861 $4,747
After-tax interest expense/(benefit) and penalties related to
income tax liabilities recognized in income tax expense were
$(52) million, $192 million and $102 million in 2019, 2018
and 2017, respectively.
At December 31, 2019 and 2018, in addition to the liability for
unrecognized tax benefits, the Firm had accrued $817 million
and $887 million, respectively, for income tax-related interest
and penalties.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 267
Tax examination status
JPMorgan Chase is continually under examination by the
Internal Revenue Service, by taxing authorities throughout the
world, and by many state and local jurisdictions throughout the
U.S. The following table summarizes the status of significant
income tax examinations of JPMorgan Chase and its
consolidated subsidiaries as of December 31, 2019.
  Periods under
examination Status
JPMorgan Chase – U.S.
 2011 – 2013
 Field Examination
completed; JPMorgan
Chase intends to file
amended returns
JPMorgan Chase – U.S. 2014 - 2016 Field Examination
JPMorgan Chase – New
York State  2012 - 2014 Field Examination
JPMorgan Chase – New
York City  2012 - 2014 Field Examination
JPMorgan Chase –
California  2011 – 2012 Field Examination
JPMorgan Chase – U.K. 2006 – 2017 Field examination of
certain select entities
268 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Note 26 – Restricted cash, other  restricted
assets and inter company funds transfers
Restricted cash and other restricted assets
Certain of the Firm’s cash and other assets are restricted as to
withdrawal or usage. These restrictions are imposed by various
regulatory authorities based on the particular activities of the
Firm’s subsidiaries.
The business of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is subject to
examination and regulation by the OCC. The Bank is a
member of the U.S. Federal Reserve System, and its deposits
in the U.S. are insured by the FDIC, subject to applicable
limits.
The Federal Reserve requires depository institutions to
maintain cash reserves with a Federal Reserve Bank. The
average required amount of reserve balances is deposited by
the Firm’s bank subsidiaries. In addition, the Firm is required
to maintain cash reserves at certain non-US central banks.
The Firm is also subject to rules and regulations established by
other U.S. and non U.S. regulators. As part of its compliance
with the respective regulatory requirements, the Firm’s broker-
dealers (principally J.P. Morgan Securities LLC in the U.S and
J.P. Morgan Securities plc in the U.K.) are subject to certain
restrictions on cash and other assets.
The following table presents the components of the Firm’s
restricted cash:
December 31, (in billions) 2019 2018
Cash reserves – Federal Reserve
Banks $ 26.6$ 22.1
Segregated for the benefit of
securities and cleared derivative
customers 16.0 14.6
Cash reserves at non-U.S. central
banks and held for other general
purposes 3.9 4.1
Total restricted cash(a) $ 46.5$ 40.8
(a)Comprises $45.3 billion and $39.6 billion in deposits with banks as of
December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $1.2 billion in cash and
due from banks as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, on the Consolidated
balance sheets.
Also, as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Firm had the
following other restricted assets:
•Cash and securities pledged with clearing organizations for
the benefit of customers of $24.7 billion and $20.6 billion,
respectively.
•Securities with a fair value of $8.8 billion and $9.7 billion,
respectively, were also restricted in relation to customer
activity. Intercompany funds transfers
Restrictions imposed by U.S. federal law prohibit JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (“Parent Company”) and certain of its affiliates
from borrowing from banking subsidiaries unless the loans are
secured in specified amounts. Such secured loans provided by
any banking subsidiary to the Parent Company or to any
particular affiliate, together with certain other transactions with
such affiliate (collectively referred to as “covered
transactions”), are generally limited to 10% of the banking
subsidiary’s total capital, as determined by the risk-based
capital guidelines; the aggregate amount of covered
transactions between any banking subsidiary and all of its
affiliates is limited to 20% of the banking subsidiary’s total
capital.
The Parent Company’s two principal subsidiaries are
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Holdings
LLC, an intermediate holding company (the “IHC”). The IHC
holds the stock of substantially all of JPMorgan Chase’s
subsidiaries other than JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and its
subsidiaries. The IHC also owns other assets and owes
intercompany indebtedness to the holding company. The
Parent Company is obligated to contribute to the IHC
substantially all the net proceeds received from securities
issuances (including issuances of senior and subordinated debt
securities and of preferred and common stock).
The principal sources of income and funding for the Parent
Company are dividends from JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and
dividends and extensions of credit from the IHC. In addition to
dividend restrictions set forth in statutes and regulations, the
Federal Reserve, the OCC and the FDIC have authority under
the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act to prohibit or to
limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations
they supervise, including the Parent Company and its
subsidiaries that are banks or bank holding companies, if, in
the banking regulator’s opinion, payment of a dividend would
constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the
financial condition of the banking organization. The IHC is
prohibited from paying dividends or extending credit to the
Parent Company if certain capital or liquidity “thresholds” are
breached or if limits are otherwise imposed by the Parent
Company’s management or Board of Directors.
At January 1, 2020, the Parent Company’s banking
subsidiaries could pay, in the aggregate, approximately $9
billion in dividends to their respective bank holding companies
without the prior approval of their relevant banking regulators.
The capacity to pay dividends in 2020 will be supplemented by
the banking subsidiaries’ earnings during the year.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 269
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 27 – Regulatory capital
The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements,
including well-capitalized standards, for the consolidated
financial holding company. The OCC establishes similar
minimum capital requirements and standards for the Firm’s
IDI subsidiaries, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
The capital rules under Basel III establish minimum capital
ratios and overall capital adequacy standards for large and
internationally active U.S. bank holding companies and banks,
including the Firm and its IDI subsidiaries, including
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Two comprehensive approaches
are prescribed for calculating RWA: a standardized approach
(“Basel III Standardized”), and an advanced approach (“Basel
III Advanced”). Effective January 1, 2019, the capital
adequacy of the Firm and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is
evaluated against the fully phased-in measures under Basel III
that represents the lower of the Standardized or Advanced
approaches. During 2018, the required capital measures were
subject to the transitional rules and as of December 31, 2018
were the same on a fully phased-in and on a transitional basis.
The three components of regulatory capital under the Basel III
rules are as illustrated below:
Under the risk-based capital and leverage-based guidelines of
the Federal Reserve, JPMorgan Chase is required to maintain
minimum ratios for CET1, Tier 1, Total, Tier 1 leverage and
the SLR. Failure to meet these minimum requirements could
cause the Federal Reserve to take action. IDI subsidiaries are
also subject to these capital requirements by their respective
primary regulators. The following table presents the minimum and well-capitalized
ratios to which the Firm and its IDI subsidiaries were subject
as of December 31, 2019.
 Minimum capital ratios Well-capitalized ratios
 BHC(a)(e)(f)IDI(b)(e)(f) BHC(c) IDI(d)
Capital ratios    
CET1 10.5% 7.0% N/A 6.5%
Tier 1 12.0 8.5 6.0 8.0
Total 14.0 10.5 10.0 10.0
Tier 1 leverage 4.0 4.0 N/A 5.0
SLR 5.0 6.0 N/A 6.0
Note: The table above is as defined by the regulations issued by the Federal
Reserve, OCC and FDIC and to which the Firm and its IDI subsidiaries are
subject.
(a)Represents the minimum capital ratios applicable to the Firm under Basel
III. The CET1 minimum capital ratio includes a capital conservation
buffer of 2.5% and GSIB surcharge of 3.5% as calculated under Method 2.
(b)Represents requirements for JPMorgan Chase’s IDI subsidiaries. The
CET1 minimum capital ratio includes a capital conservation buffer of
2.5% that is applicable to the IDI subsidiaries. The IDI subsidiaries are not
subject to the GSIB surcharge.
(c)Represents requirements for bank holding companies pursuant to
regulations issued by the Federal Reserve.
(d)Represents requirements for IDI subsidiaries pursuant to regulations
issued under the FDIC Improvement Act.
(e)For the period ended December 31, 2018, the CET1, Tier 1, Total and Tier
1 leverage minimum capital ratios applicable to the Firm were 9.0%,
10.5%, 12.5%, and 4.0% and the CET1, Tier 1, Total and Tier 1 leverage
minimum capital ratios applicable to the Firm’s IDI subsidiaries were
6.375%, 7.875%, 9.875%, and 4.0%, respectively.
(f)Represents minimum SLR requirement of 3.0%, as well as, supplementary
leverage buffers of 2.0% and 3.0% for BHC and IDI, respectively.
270 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
The following tables present the risk-based and leverage-based capital metrics for JPMorgan Chase and JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A. under both the Basel III Standardized and Basel III Advanced Approaches. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, JPMorgan
Chase and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. were well-capitalized and met all capital requirements to which each was subject.
December 31, 2019
(in millions, except ratios)Basel III Standardized Fully Phased-In Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In
JPMorgan
Chase & Co.JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. JPMorgan
Chase & Co.JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A.
Regulatory capital     
CET1 capital $ 187,753 $ 206,848 $ 187,753 $ 206,848
Tier 1 capital 214,432 206,851 214,432 206,851
Total capital 242,589 224,390 232,112 214,091
Assets      
Risk-weighted 1,515,869 1,457,689 1,397,878 1,269,991
Adjusted average(a) 2,730,239 2,353,432 2,730,239 2,353,432
Capital ratios(b)      
CET1 12.4% 14.2% 13.4% 16.3%
Tier 1 14.1 14.2 15.3 16.3
Total 16.0 15.4 16.6 16.9
Tier 1 leverage(c) 7.9 8.8 7.9 8.8
December 31, 2018
(in millions, except ratios)Basel III Standardized Transitional Basel III Advanced Transitional
JPMorgan
Chase & Co.JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A.(d)JPMorgan
Chase & Co.JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A.(d)
Regulatory capital  
CET1 capital $ 183,474$ 211,671 $ 183,474$ 211,671
Tier 1 capital 209,093 211,671 209,093 211,671
Total capital 237,511 229,952 227,435 220,025
Assets    
Risk-weighted 1,528,916 1,446,529 1,421,205 1,283,146
Adjusted average(a) 2,589,887 2,250,480 2,589,887 2,250,480
Capital ratios(b)    
CET1 12.0% 14.6% 12.9% 16.5%
Tier 1 13.7 14.6 14.7 16.5
Total 15.5 15.9 16.0 17.1
Tier 1 leverage(c) 8.1 9.4 8.1 9.4
(a)Adjusted average assets, for purposes of calculating the Tier 1 leverage ratio, includes total quarterly average assets adjusted for on-balance sheet assets that are
subject to deduction from Tier 1 capital, predominantly goodwill and other intangible assets.
(b)For each of the risk-based capital ratios, the capital adequacy of the Firm and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is evaluated against the lower of the two ratios as
calculated under Basel III approaches (Standardized or Advanced).
(c)The Tier 1 leverage ratio is not a risk-based measure of capital.
(d)On May 18, 2019, Chase Bank USA, N.A. merged with and into JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A as the surviving entity. The
December 31, 2018 amounts reported for JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. retrospectively reflect the impact of the merger.
 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
 Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In
(in millions, except ratios)JPMorgan
Chase & Co.JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A.JPMorgan
Chase & Co.JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A.(a)
Total leverage exposure 3,423,431$ 3,044,509 $ 3,269,988$ 2,915,541
SLR 6.3% 6.8% 6.4% 7.3%
(a)On May 18, 2019, Chase Bank USA, N.A. merged with and into JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A as the surviving entity. The
December 31, 2018 amounts reported for JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. retrospectively reflect the impact of the merger.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 271
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 28 – Off–balance sheet lending-r elated
financial instruments, guarantees, and
other  commitments
JPMorgan Chase provides lending-related financial
instruments (e.g., commitments and guarantees) to address the
financing needs of its customers and clients. The contractual
amount of these financial instruments represents the maximum
possible credit risk to the Firm should the customer or client
draw upon the commitment or the Firm be required to fulfill its
obligation under the guarantee, and should the customer or
client subsequently fail to perform according to the terms of
the contract. Most of these commitments and guarantees are
refinanced, extended, cancelled, or expire without being drawn
or a default occurring. As a result, the total contractual amount
of these instruments is not, in the Firm’s view, representative
of its expected future credit exposure or funding requirements. To provide for probable credit losses inherent in wholesale and
certain consumer lending-commitments, an allowance for
credit losses on lending-related commitments is maintained.
Refer to Note 13 for further information regarding the
allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments.
The following table summarizes the contractual amounts and
carrying values of off-balance sheet lending-related financial
instruments, guarantees and other commitments at
December 31, 2019 and 2018. The amounts in the table below
for credit card and home equity lending-related commitments
represent the total available credit for these products. The Firm
has not experienced, and does not anticipate, that all available
lines of credit for these products will be utilized at the same
time. The Firm can reduce or cancel credit card lines of credit
by providing the borrower notice or, in some cases as
permitted by law, without notice. In addition, the Firm
typically closes credit card lines when the borrower is 60 days
or more past due. The Firm may reduce or close HELOCs
when there are significant decreases in the value of the
underlying property, or when there has been a demonstrable
decline in the creditworthiness of the borrower.
272 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Off–balance sheet lending-related financial instruments, guarantees and other commitments  
 Contractual amount Carrying value(g)
 2019  2018 2019 2018
By remaining maturity at December 31,
(in millions)Expires in 1
year or lessExpires
after
1 year
through
3 yearsExpires
after
3 years
through
5 yearsExpires
after 5
years Total  Total  
Lending-related      
Consumer, excluding credit card:      
Home equity $ 680$ 1,187$ 2,548$16,704$ 21,119 $ 20,901 $ 12$ 12
Residential mortgage(a) 9,086 — — 12 9,098 5,481 — —
Auto 8,296 600 197 195 9,288 8,011 2 2
Consumer & Business Banking 9,994 646 105 1,162 11,907 11,673 19 19
Total consumer, excluding credit card 28,056 2,433 2,850 18,073 51,412 46,066 33 33
Credit card 650,720 — — — 650,720 605,379 — —
Total consumer(b) 678,776 2,433 2,850 18,073 702,132 651,445 33 33
Wholesale:      
Other unfunded commitments to extend credit(c) 58,645 129,414 168,400 10,791 367,250 351,490 938 852
Standby letters of credit and other financial
guarantees(c) 15,919 11,127 5,117 1,745 33,908 33,498 618 521
Other letters of credit(c) 2,734 183 40 — 2,957 2,825 4 3
Total wholesale(b) 77,298 140,724 173,557 12,536 404,115 387,813 1,560 1,376
Total lending-related $756,074$143,157$176,407$30,609$1,106,247 $1,039,258 $1,593$1,409
Other guarantees and commitments      
Securities lending indemnification agreements and
guarantees(d) $204,827$ —$ —$ —$204,827 $186,077 $ —$ —
Derivatives qualifying as guarantees 1,403 144 11,299 40,243 53,089 55,271 159 367
Unsettled resale and securities borrowed agreements 117,203 748 — — 117,951 102,008 — —
Unsettled repurchase and securities loaned agreements 72,790 561 — — 73,351 57,732 — —
Loan sale and securitization-related indemnifications:      
Mortgage repurchase liability NA NA NA NA NA NA 59 89
Loans sold with recourse NA NA NA NA 944 1,019 27 30
Exchange & clearing house guarantees and
commitments(e) 206,432 — — — 206,432 58,960 — —
Other guarantees and commitments (f) 2,684 841 293 3,399 7,217 8,183 (73) (73)
(a)Includes certain commitments to purchase loans from correspondents.
(b)Predominantly all consumer and wholesale lending-related commitments are in the U.S.
(c)At December 31, 2019 and 2018, reflected the contractual amount net of risk participations totaling $76 million and $282 million, respectively, for other
unfunded commitments to extend credit; $9.8 billion and $10.4 billion, respectively, for standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees; and $546 million
and $385 million, respectively, for other letters of credit. In regulatory filings with the Federal Reserve these commitments are shown gross of risk
participations.
(d)At December 31, 2019 and 2018, collateral held by the Firm in support of securities lending indemnification agreements was $216.2 billion and $195.6 billion,
respectively. Securities lending collateral primarily consists of cash, G7 government securities, and securities issued by U.S. GSEs and government agencies.
(e)At December 31, 2019 and 2018, includes guarantees to the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation under the sponsored member repo program and commitments
and guarantees associated with the Firm’s membership in certain clearing houses.
(f)At December 31, 2019 and 2018, primarily includes letters of credit hedged by derivative transactions and managed on a market risk basis, and unfunded
commitments related to institutional lending. Additionally, includes unfunded commitments predominantly related to certain tax-oriented equity investments.
(g)For lending-related products, the carrying value represents the allowance for lending-related commitments and the guarantee liability; for derivative-related
products, the carrying value represents the fair value.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 273
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Other unfunded commitments to extend credit
Other unfunded commitments to extend credit generally
consist of commitments for working capital and general
corporate purposes, extensions of credit to support commercial
paper facilities and bond financings in the event that those
obligations cannot be remarketed to new investors, as well as
committed liquidity facilities to clearing organizations. The
Firm also issues commitments under multipurpose facilities
which could be drawn upon in several forms, including the
issuance of a standby letter of credit.
Guarantees
U.S. GAAP requires that a guarantor recognize, at the
inception of a guarantee, a liability in an amount equal to the
fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee.
U.S. GAAP defines a guarantee as a contract that contingently
requires the guarantor to pay a guaranteed party based upon:
(a) changes in an underlying asset, liability or equity security
of the guaranteed party; or (b) a third party’s failure to perform
under a specified agreement. The Firm considers the following
off–balance sheet arrangements to be guarantees under U.S.
GAAP: standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees,
securities lending indemnifications, certain indemnification
agreements included within third-party contractual
arrangements, certain derivative contracts and the guarantees
under the sponsored member repo program.
As required by U.S. GAAP, the Firm initially records
guarantees at the inception date fair value of the obligation
assumed (e.g., the amount of consideration received or the net
present value of the premium receivable). For certain types of guarantees, the Firm records this fair value amount in
other liabilities with an offsetting entry recorded in cash (for
premiums received), or other assets (for premiums receivable).
Any premium receivable recorded in other assets is reduced as
cash is received under the contract, and the fair value of the
liability recorded at inception is amortized into income as
lending and deposit-related fees over the life of the guarantee
contract. For indemnifications provided in sales agreements, a
portion of the sale proceeds is allocated to the guarantee,
which adjusts the gain or loss that would otherwise result from
the transaction. For these indemnifications, the initial liability
is amortized to income as the Firm’s risk is reduced (i.e., over
time or when the indemnification expires). Any contingent
liability that exists as a result of issuing the guarantee or
indemnification is recognized when it becomes probable and
reasonably estimable. The contingent portion of the liability is
not recognized if the estimated amount is less than the carrying
amount of the liability recognized at inception (adjusted for
any amortization). The contractual amount and carrying value
of guarantees and indemnifications are included in the table on
page 273. For additional information on the guarantees, see
below.
Standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees
Standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees are
conditional lending commitments issued by the Firm to
guarantee the performance of a client or customer to a third
party under certain arrangements, such as commercial paper
facilities, bond financings, acquisition financings, trade and
similar transactions.
The following table summarizes the contractual amount and carrying value of standby letters of credit and other financial
guarantees and other letters of credit arrangements as of December 31, 2019 and 2018.
Standby letters of credit, other financial guarantees and other letters of credit
 2019  2018
December 31,
(in millions)Standby letters of credit and
other financial guarantees  Other letters
of credit Standby letters of credit and
other financial guarantees  Other letters
of credit
Investment-grade(a) $ 26,647  $ 2,136  $ 26,420  $ 2,079
Noninvestment-grade(a) 7,261  821  7,078  746
Total contractual amount $ 33,908  $ 2,957  $ 33,498  $ 2,825
Allowance for lending-related commitments $ 216  $ 4  $ 167  $ 3
Guarantee liability 402  —  354  —
Total carrying value $ 618  $ 4  $ 521  $ 3
Commitments with collateral $ 17,582  $ 726  $ 17,400  $ 583
(a)The ratings scale is based on the Firm’s internal risk ratings. Refer to Note 12 for further information on internal risk ratings.
274 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Securities lending indemnifications
Through the Firm’s securities lending program, counterparties’
securities, via custodial and non-custodial arrangements, may
be lent to third parties. As part of this program, the Firm
provides an indemnification in the lending agreements which
protects the lender against the failure of the borrower to return
the lent securities. To minimize its liability under these
indemnification agreements, the Firm obtains cash or other
highly liquid collateral with a market value exceeding 100% of
the value of the securities on loan from the borrower.
Collateral is marked to market daily to help assure that
collateralization is adequate. Additional collateral is called
from the borrower if a shortfall exists, or collateral may be
released to the borrower in the event of overcollateralization. If
a borrower defaults, the Firm would use the collateral held to
purchase replacement securities in the market or to credit the
lending client or counterparty with the cash equivalent thereof.
The cash collateral held by the Firm may be invested on behalf
of the client in indemnified resale agreements, whereby the
Firm indemnifies the client against the loss of principal
invested. To minimize its liability under these agreements, the
Firm obtains collateral with a market value exceeding 100% of
the principal invested.
Derivatives qualifying as guarantees
The Firm transacts in certain derivative contracts that have the
characteristics of a guarantee under U.S. GAAP. These
contracts include written put options that require the Firm to
purchase assets upon exercise by the option holder at a
specified price by a specified date in the future. The Firm may
enter into written put option contracts in order to meet client
needs, or for other trading purposes. The terms of written put
options are typically five years or less.
Derivatives deemed to be guarantees also includes stable value
contracts, commonly referred to as “stable value products”,
that require the Firm to make a payment of the difference
between the market value and the book value of a
counterparty’s reference portfolio of assets in the event that
market value is less than book value and certain other
conditions have been met. Stable value products are transacted
in order to allow investors to realize investment returns with
less volatility than an unprotected portfolio. These contracts
are typically longer-term or may have no stated maturity, but
allow the Firm to elect to terminate the contract under certain
conditions.
The notional value of derivatives guarantees  generally
represents the Firm’s maximum exposure. However, exposure
to certain stable value products is contractually limited to a
substantially lower percentage of the notional amount.
The fair value of derivative guarantees reflects the probability,
in the Firm’s view, of whether the Firm will be required to
perform under the contract. The Firm reduces exposures to
these contracts by entering into offsetting transactions, or by
entering into contracts that hedge the market risk related to the
derivative guarantees. The following table summarizes the derivatives qualifying as
guarantees as of December 31, 2019 and 2018.
(in millions)December 31,
2019 December 31,
2018
Notional amounts   
Derivative guarantees $ 53,089 $ 55,271
Stable value contracts with
contractually limited exposure 28,877 28,637
Maximum exposure of stable
value contracts with
contractually limited exposure 2,967 2,963
Fair value   
Derivative payables 159 367
In addition to derivative contracts that meet the characteristics
of a guarantee, the Firm is both a purchaser and seller of credit
protection in the credit derivatives market. Refer to Note 5 for
a further discussion of credit derivatives.
Unsettled securities financing agreements
In the normal course of business, the Firm enters into resale
and securities borrowed agreements. At settlement, these
commitments result in the Firm advancing cash to and
receiving securities collateral from the counterparty. The Firm
also enters into repurchase and securities loaned agreements.
At settlement, these commitments result in the Firm receiving
cash from and providing securities collateral to the
counterparty. Such agreements settle at a future date. These
agreements generally do not meet the definition of a
derivative, and therefore, are not recorded on the Consolidated
balance sheets until settlement date. These agreements
predominantly have regular-way settlement terms. Refer to
Note 11 for a further discussion of securities financing
agreements.
Loan sales- and securitization-related indemnifications
Mortgage repurchase liability
In connection with the Firm’s mortgage loan sale and
securitization activities with U.S. GSEs the Firm has made
representations and warranties that the loans sold meet certain
requirements, and that may require the Firm to repurchase
mortgage loans and/or indemnify the loan purchaser if such
representations and warranties are breached by the Firm.
Further, although the Firm’s securitizations are predominantly
nonrecourse, the Firm does provide recourse servicing in
certain limited cases where it agrees to share credit risk with
the owner of the mortgage loans. To the extent that repurchase
demands that are received relate to loans that the Firm
purchased from third parties that remain viable, the Firm
typically will have the right to seek a recovery of related
repurchase losses from the third party. Generally, the maximum
amount of future payments the Firm would be required to make
for breaches of these representations and warranties would be
equal to the unpaid principal balance of such loans that are
deemed to have defects that were sold to purchasers (including
securitization-related SPEs) plus, in certain circumstances,
accrued interest on such loans and certain expenses.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 275
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Private label securitizations
The liability related to repurchase demands associated with
private label securitizations is separately evaluated by the Firm
in establishing its litigation reserves.
Refer to Note 30 for additional information regarding
litigation.
Loans sold with recourse
The Firm provides servicing for mortgages and certain
commercial lending products on both a recourse and
nonrecourse basis. In nonrecourse servicing, the principal
credit risk to the Firm is the cost of temporary servicing
advances of funds (i.e., normal servicing advances). In
recourse servicing, the servicer agrees to share credit risk with
the owner of the mortgage loans, such as Fannie Mae or
Freddie Mac or a private investor, insurer or guarantor. Losses
on recourse servicing predominantly occur when foreclosure
sales proceeds of the property underlying a defaulted loan are
less than the sum of the outstanding principal balance, plus
accrued interest on the loan and the cost of holding and
disposing of the underlying property. The Firm’s
securitizations are predominantly nonrecourse, thereby
effectively transferring the risk of future credit losses to the
purchaser of the mortgage-backed securities issued by the
trust. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the unpaid principal
balance of loans sold with recourse totaled $944 million and
$1.0 billion, respectively. The carrying value of the related
liability that the Firm has recorded in accounts payable and
other liabilities on the Consolidated balance sheets, which is
representative of the Firm’s view of the likelihood it will have
to perform under its recourse obligations, was $27 million and
$30 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Other off-balance sheet arrangements
Indemnification agreements – general
In connection with issuing securities to investors outside the
U.S., the Firm may agree to pay additional amounts to the
holders of the securities in the event that, due to a change in
tax law, certain types of withholding taxes are imposed on
payments on the securities. The terms of the securities may
also give the Firm the right to redeem the securities if such
additional amounts are payable. The Firm may also enter into
indemnification clauses in connection with the licensing of
software to clients (“software licensees”) or when it sells a
business or assets to a third party (“third-party purchasers”),
pursuant to which it indemnifies software licensees for claims
of liability or damages that may occur subsequent to the
licensing of the software, or third-party purchasers for losses
they may incur due to actions taken by the Firm prior to the
sale of the business or assets. It is difficult to estimate the
Firm’s maximum exposure under these indemnification
arrangements, since this would require an assessment of future
changes in tax law and future claims that may be made against
the Firm that have not yet occurred. However, based on
historical experience, management expects the risk of loss to
be remote. Merchant charge-backs
Under the rules of payment networks, the Firm, in its role as a
merchant acquirer, retains a contingent liability for disputed
processed credit and debit card transactions that result in a
charge-back to the merchant. If a dispute is resolved in the
cardholder’s favor, Merchant Services will (through the
cardholder’s issuing bank) credit or refund the amount to the
cardholder and will charge back the transaction to the
merchant. If Merchant Services is unable to collect the amount
from the merchant, Merchant Services will bear the loss for the
amount credited or refunded to the cardholder. Merchant
Services mitigates this risk by withholding future settlements,
retaining cash reserve accounts or obtaining other collateral. In
addition, Merchant Services recognizes a valuation allowance
that covers the payment or performance risk to the Firm related
to charge-backs.
For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017,
Merchant Services processed an aggregate volume of $1,511.5
billion, $1,366.1 billion, and $1,191.7 billion, respectively, and
the related losses from merchant charge-backs were not
material.
Clearing Services – Client Credit Risk
The Firm provides clearing services for clients by entering into
securities purchases and sales and derivative contracts with
CCPs, including ETDs such as futures and options, as well as
OTC-cleared derivative contracts. As a clearing member, the
Firm stands behind the performance of its clients, collects cash
and securities collateral (margin) as well as any settlement
amounts due from or to clients, and remits them to the relevant
CCP or client in whole or part. There are two types of margin:
variation margin is posted on a daily basis based on the value
of clients’ derivative contracts and initial margin is posted at
inception of a derivative contract, generally on the basis of the
potential changes in the variation margin requirement for the
contract.
As a clearing member, the Firm is exposed to the risk of
nonperformance by its clients, but is not liable to clients for the
performance of the CCPs. Where possible, the Firm seeks to
mitigate its risk to the client through the collection of
appropriate amounts of margin at inception and throughout the
life of the transactions. The Firm can also cease providing
clearing services if clients do not adhere to their obligations
under the clearing agreement. In the event of nonperformance
by a client, the Firm would close out the client’s positions and
access available margin. The CCP would utilize any margin it
holds to make itself whole, with any remaining shortfalls
required to be paid by the Firm as a clearing member.
The Firm reflects its exposure to nonperformance risk of the
client through the recognition of margin receivables from
clients and margin payables to CCPs; the clients’ underlying
securities or derivative contracts are not reflected in the Firm’s
Consolidated Financial Statements.
276 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
It is difficult to estimate the Firm’s maximum possible
exposure through its role as a clearing member, as this would
require an assessment of transactions that clients may execute
in the future. However, based upon historical experience, and
the credit risk mitigants available to the Firm, management
believes it is unlikely that the Firm will have to make any
material payments under these arrangements and the risk of
loss is expected to be remote.
Refer to Note 5 for information on the derivatives that the
Firm executes for its own account and records in its
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Exchange & Clearing House Memberships
The Firm is a member of several securities and derivative
exchanges and clearing houses, both in the U.S. and other
countries, and it provides clearing services to its clients.
Membership in some of these organizations requires the Firm
to pay a pro rata share of the losses incurred by the
organization as a result of the default of another member. Such
obligations vary with different organizations. These
obligations may be limited to the amount (or a multiple of the
amount) of the Firm’s contribution to the guarantee fund
maintained by a clearing house or exchange as part of the
resources available to cover any losses in the event of a
member default. Alternatively, these obligations may also
include a pro rata share of the residual losses after applying the
guarantee fund. Additionally, certain clearing houses require
the Firm as a member to pay a pro rata share of losses that may
result from the clearing house’s investment of guarantee fund
contributions and initial margin, unrelated to and independent
of the default of another member. Generally a payment would
only be required should such losses exceed the resources of the
clearing house or exchange that are contractually required to
absorb the losses in the first instance. In certain cases, it is
difficult to estimate the Firm’s maximum possible exposure
under these membership agreements, since this would require
an assessment of future claims that may be made against the
Firm that have not yet occurred. However, based on historical
experience, management expects the risk of loss to the Firm to
be remote. Where the Firm’s maximum possible exposure can
be estimated, the amount is disclosed in the table on page 273,
in the Exchange & clearing house guarantees and
commitments line. Sponsored member repo program
In 2018 the Firm commenced the sponsored member repo
program, wherein the Firm acts as a sponsoring member to
clear eligible overnight resale and repurchase agreements
through the Government Securities Division of the Fixed
Income Clearing Corporation (“FICC”) on behalf of clients
that become sponsored members under the FICC’s rules. The
Firm also guarantees to the FICC the prompt and full payment
and performance of its sponsored member clients’ respective
obligations under the FICC’s rules. The Firm minimizes its
liability under these overnight guarantees by obtaining a
security interest in the cash or high-quality securities collateral
that the clients place with the clearing house; therefore, the
Firm expects the risk of loss to be remote. The Firm’s
maximum possible exposure, without taking into consideration
the associated collateral, is included in the Exchange &
clearing house guarantees and commitments line on page 273.
Refer to Note 11 for additional information on credit risk
mitigation practices on resale agreements and the types of
collateral pledged under repurchase agreements.
Guarantees of subsidiaries
In the normal course of business, the Parent Company may
provide counterparties with guarantees of certain of the trading
and other obligations of its subsidiaries on a contract-by-
contract basis, as negotiated with the Firm’s counterparties.
The obligations of the subsidiaries are included on the Firm’s
Consolidated balance sheets or are reflected as off-balance
sheet commitments; therefore, the Parent Company has not
recognized a separate liability for these guarantees. The Firm
believes that the occurrence of any event that would trigger
payments by the Parent Company under these guarantees is
remote.
The Parent Company has guaranteed certain long-term debt
and structured notes of its subsidiaries, including JPMorgan
Chase Financial Company LLC (“JPMFC”), a 100%-owned
finance subsidiary. All securities issued by JPMFC are fully
and unconditionally guaranteed by the Parent Company. These
guarantees, which rank on a parity with the Firm’s unsecured
and unsubordinated indebtedness, are not included in the table
on page 273 of this Note. Refer to Note 20 for additional
information.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 277
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 29 – Pledged assets and collateral
Pledged assets
The Firm pledges financial assets that it owns to maintain
potential borrowing capacity at discount windows with Federal
Reserve banks, various other central banks and FHLBs.
Additionally, the Firm pledges assets for other purposes,
including to collateralize repurchase and other securities
financing agreements, to cover short sales and to collateralize
derivative contracts and deposits. Certain of these pledged
assets may be sold or repledged or otherwise used by the
secured parties and are parenthetically identified on the
Consolidated balance sheets as assets pledged.
The following table presents the Firm’s pledged assets.
December 31, (in billions)  2019 2018
Assets that may be sold or repledged or
otherwise used by secured parties  $ 125.2$ 104.0
Assets that may not be sold or repledged or
otherwise used by secured parties  80.2 83.7
Assets pledged at Federal Reserve banks and
FHLBs  478.9 475.3
Total pledged assets  $ 684.3$ 663.0
Total pledged assets do not include assets of consolidated
VIEs; these assets are used to settle the liabilities of those
entities. Refer to Note 14 for additional information on assets
and liabilities of consolidated VIEs. Refer to Note 11 for
additional information on the Firm’s securities financing
activities. Refer to Note 20 for additional information on the
Firm’s long-term debt. The significant components of the
Firm’s pledged assets were as follows.
December 31, (in billions) 2019 2018
Investment securities $ 35.9$ 59.5
Loans 460.4 440.1
Trading assets and other 188.0 163.4
Total pledged assets $ 684.3$ 663.0 Collateral
The Firm accepts financial assets as collateral that it is
permitted to sell or repledge, deliver or otherwise use. This
collateral is generally obtained under resale and other
securities financing agreements, prime brokerage-related held-
for-investment customer receivables and derivative contracts.
Collateral is generally used under repurchase and other
securities financing agreements, to cover short sales, and to
collateralize derivative contracts and deposits.
The following table presents the fair value of collateral
accepted.
December 31, (in billions) 2019 2018
Collateral permitted to be sold or repledged,
delivered, or otherwise used $ 1,282.5$ 1,245.3
Collateral sold, repledged, delivered or
otherwise used 1,000.5 998.3
278 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Note 30 – Litigation
Contingencies
As of December 31, 2019, the Firm and its subsidiaries and
affiliates are defendants, putative defendants or respondents in
numerous legal proceedings, including private, civil litigations
and regulatory/government investigations. The litigations
range from individual actions involving a single plaintiff to
class action lawsuits with potentially millions of class
members. Investigations involve both formal and informal
proceedings, by both governmental agencies and self-
regulatory organizations. These legal proceedings are at
varying stages of adjudication, arbitration or investigation, and
involve each of the Firm’s lines of business and several
geographies and a wide variety of claims (including common
law tort and contract claims and statutory antitrust, securities
and consumer protection claims), some of which present novel
legal theories.
The Firm believes the estimate of the aggregate range of
reasonably possible losses, in excess of reserves established,
for its legal proceedings is from $0 to approximately $1.3
billion at December 31, 2019. This estimated aggregate range
of reasonably possible losses was based upon information
available as of that date for those proceedings in which the
Firm believes that an estimate of reasonably possible loss can
be made. For certain matters, the Firm does not believe that
such an estimate can be made, as of that date. The Firm’s
estimate of the aggregate range of reasonably possible losses
involves significant judgment, given:
•the number, variety and varying stages of the proceedings,
including the fact that many are in preliminary stages,
•the existence in many such proceedings of multiple
defendants, including the Firm, whose share of liability (if
any) has yet to be determined,
•the numerous yet-unresolved issues in many of the
proceedings, including issues regarding class certification
and the scope of many of the claims, and
•the attendant uncertainty of the various potential outcomes
of such proceedings, including where the Firm has made
assumptions concerning future rulings by the court or other
adjudicator, or about the behavior or incentives of adverse
parties or regulatory authorities, and those assumptions
prove to be incorrect.
In addition, the outcome of a particular proceeding may be a
result which the Firm did not take into account in its estimate
because the Firm had deemed the likelihood of that outcome to
be remote. Accordingly, the Firm’s estimate of the aggregate
range of reasonably possible losses will change from time to
time, and actual losses may vary significantly. Set forth below are descriptions of the Firm’s material legal
proceedings.
Federal Republic of Nigeria Litigation. JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A. operated an escrow and depository account for the
Federal Government of Nigeria (“FGN”) and two major
international oil companies. The account held approximately
$1.1 billion in connection with a dispute among the clients
over rights to an oil field. Following the settlement of the
dispute, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. paid out the monies in
the account in 2011 and 2013 in accordance with directions
received from its clients. In November 2017, the Federal
Republic of Nigeria (“FRN”) commenced a claim in the
English High Court for approximately $875 million in
payments made out of the accounts. The FRN, claiming to be
the same entity as the FGN, alleges that the payments were
instructed as part of a complex fraud not involving JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A., but that JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. was
or should have been on notice that the payments may be
fraudulent. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. applied for summary
judgment and was unsuccessful. The claim is ongoing and no
trial date has been set.
Foreign Exchange Investigations and Litigation. The Firm
previously reported settlements with certain government
authorities relating to its foreign exchange (“FX”) sales and
trading activities and controls related to those activities. FX-
related investigations and inquiries by government authorities,
including competition authorities, are ongoing, and the Firm is
cooperating with and working to resolve those matters. In May
2015, the Firm pleaded guilty to a single violation of federal
antitrust law. In January 2017, the Firm was sentenced, with
judgment entered thereafter and a term of probation ending in
January 2020. The term of probation has concluded, with the
Firm remaining in good standing throughout the probation
period. The Department of Labor has granted the Firm a five-
year exemption of disqualification that allows the Firm and its
affiliates to continue to rely on the Qualified Professional
Asset Manager exemption under the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act (“ERISA”) until January 2023. The Firm
will need to reapply in due course for a further exemption to
cover the remainder of the ten-year disqualification period. In
addition, the Firm has paid fines totaling approximately $265
million in connection with the settlement of FX-related
investigations conducted by the European Commission and the
Swiss Competition Commission which were announced in
May 2019 and June 2019, respectively. Separately, in February
2017 the South Africa Competition Commission referred its
FX investigation of the Firm and other banks to the South
Africa Competition Tribunal, which is conducting civil
proceedings concerning that matter.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 279
Notes to consolidated financial statements
In August 2018, the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York granted final approval to the
Firm’s settlement of a consolidated class action brought by
U.S.-based plaintiffs, which principally alleged violations of
federal antitrust laws based on an alleged conspiracy to
manipulate foreign exchange rates and also sought damages on
behalf of persons who transacted in FX futures and options on
futures. Certain members of the settlement class filed requests
to the Court to be excluded from the class, and certain of them
filed a complaint against the Firm and a number of other
foreign exchange dealers in November 2018. A number of
these actions remain pending. Further, putative class actions
have been filed against the Firm and a number of other foreign
exchange dealers on behalf of certain consumers who
purchased foreign currencies at allegedly inflated rates and
purported indirect purchasers of FX instruments; these actions
also remain pending in the District Court. In addition, some
FX-related individual and putative class actions based on
similar alleged underlying conduct have been filed outside the
U.S., including in the U.K., Israel and Australia.
Interchange Litigation. Groups of merchants and retail
associations filed a series of class action complaints alleging
that Visa and Mastercard, as well as certain banks, conspired to
set the price of credit and debit card interchange fees and
enacted related rules in violation of antitrust laws. In 2012, the
parties initially settled the cases for a cash payment, a
temporary reduction of credit card interchange, and
modifications to certain credit card network rules. In 2017,
after the approval of that settlement was reversed on appeal,
the case was remanded to the District Court for further
proceedings consistent with the appellate decision.
The original class action was divided into two separate actions,
one seeking primarily monetary relief and the other seeking
primarily injunctive relief. In September 2018, the parties to
the class action seeking monetary relief finalized an agreement
which amends and supersedes the prior settlement agreement.
Pursuant to this settlement, the defendants collectively
contributed an additional $900 million to the approximately
$5.3 billion previously held in escrow from the original
settlement. In December 2019, the amended agreement was
approved by the District Court. Certain merchants filed notices
of appeal of the District Court’s approval order. Based on the
percentage of merchants that opted out of the amended class
settlement, $700 million has been returned to the defendants
from the settlement escrow in accordance with the settlement
agreement. The class action seeking primarily injunctive relief
continues separately.
In addition, certain merchants have filed individual actions
raising similar allegations against Visa and Mastercard, as well
as against the Firm and other banks, and those actions are
proceeding.
LIBOR and Other Benchmark Rate Investigations and
Litigation. JPMorgan Chase has responded to inquiries from various governmental agencies and entities around the world
relating primarily to the British Bankers Association’s London
Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) for various currencies and
the European Banking Federation’s Euro Interbank Offered
Rate (“EURIBOR”). The Swiss Competition Commission’s
investigation relating to EURIBOR, to which the Firm and
other banks are subject, continues. In December 2016, the
European Commission issued a decision against the Firm and
other banks finding an infringement of European antitrust rules
relating to EURIBOR. The Firm has filed an appeal of that
decision with the European General Court, and that appeal is
pending.
In addition, the Firm has been named as a defendant along
with other banks in a series of individual and putative class
actions related to benchmarks, including U.S. dollar LIBOR
during the period that it was administered by the BBA and, in a
separate consolidated putative class action, during the period
that it was administered by ICE Benchmark Administration.
These actions have been filed, or consolidated for pre-trial
purposes, in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York. In these actions, plaintiffs make varying
allegations that in various periods, starting in 2000 or later,
defendants either individually or collectively manipulated
various benchmark rates by submitting rates that were
artificially low or high. Plaintiffs allege that they transacted in
loans, derivatives or other financial instruments whose values
are affected by changes in these rates and assert a variety of
claims including antitrust claims seeking treble damages.
These actions are in various stages of litigation.
In actions related to U.S. dollar LIBOR during the period that
it was administered by the BBA, the District Court dismissed
certain claims, including antitrust claims brought by some
plaintiffs whom the District Court found did not have standing
to assert such claims, and permitted certain claims to proceed,
including antitrust, Commodity Exchange Act, Section 10(b)
of the Securities Exchange Act and common law claims. The
plaintiffs whose antitrust claims were dismissed for lack of
standing have filed an appeal. The District Court granted class
certification of antitrust claims related to bonds and interest
rate swaps sold directly by the defendants and denied class
certification motions filed by other plaintiffs. The Firm’s
settlements of putative class actions related to Swiss franc
LIBOR, the Singapore Interbank Offered Rate and the
Singapore Swap Offer Rate (“SIBOR”), the Australian Bank
Bill Swap Reference Rate, and certain of the putative class
actions related to U.S. dollar LIBOR remain subject to court
approval. In the class actions related to SIBOR and Swiss
franc LIBOR, the District Court concluded that the Court
lacked subject matter jurisdiction, and plaintiffs’ appeals of
those decisions are pending.
Metals and U.S. Treasuries Investigations and Litigation and
Related Inquiries. Various authorities, including the
Department of Justice’s Criminal Division, are conducting
investigations relating to trading practices in the metals
markets and related conduct. The Firm also is responding to
280 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
related requests concerning similar trading-practices issues in
markets for other financial instruments, such as U.S.
Treasuries. The Firm continues to cooperate with these
investigations and is currently engaged in discussions with
various regulators about resolving their respective
investigations. There is no assurance that such discussions will
result in settlements. Several putative class action complaints
have been filed in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York against the Firm and certain
former employees, alleging a precious metals futures and
options price manipulation scheme in violation of the
Commodity Exchange Act. Some of the complaints also allege
unjust enrichment and deceptive acts or practices under the
General Business Law of the State of New York. The Court
consolidated these putative class actions in February 2019. The
Firm is also a defendant in a consolidated action filed in the
United States District Court for the Southern District of New
York alleging monopolization of silver futures in violation of
the Sherman Act.
Wendel. Since 2012, the French criminal authorities have been
investigating a series of transactions entered into by senior
managers of Wendel Investissement (“Wendel”) during the
period from 2004 through 2007 to restructure their
shareholdings in Wendel. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Paris
branch provided financing for the transactions to a number of
managers of Wendel in 2007. JPMorgan Chase has cooperated
with the investigation. The investigating judges issued an
ordonnance de renvoi in November 2016, referring JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. to the French tribunal correctionnel for
alleged complicity in tax fraud. No date for trial has been set
by the court. In January 2018, the Paris Court of Appeal issued
a decision cancelling the mise en examen of JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A. The Court of Cassation, France’s highest court,
ruled in September 2018 that a mise en examen is a
prerequisite for an ordonnance de renvoi and in January 2020
ordered the annulment of the ordonnance de renvoi referring
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. to the French tribunal
correctionnel. In addition, a number of the managers have
commenced civil proceedings against JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A. The claims are separate, involve different allegations and
are at various stages of proceedings.
* * *
In addition to the various legal proceedings discussed above,
JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries are named as defendants
or are otherwise involved in a substantial number of other legal
proceedings. The Firm believes it has meritorious defenses to
the claims asserted against it in its currently outstanding legal
proceedings and it intends to defend itself vigorously.
Additional legal proceedings may be initiated from time to
time in the future. The Firm has established reserves for several hundred of its
currently outstanding legal proceedings. In accordance with
the provisions of U.S. GAAP for contingencies, the Firm
accrues for a litigation-related liability when it is probable that
such a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss
can be reasonably estimated. The Firm evaluates its
outstanding legal proceedings each quarter to assess its
litigation reserves, and makes adjustments in such reserves,
upwards or downward, as appropriate, based on management’s
best judgment after consultation with counsel. The Firm’s legal
expense/(benefit) was $239 million, $72 million and $(35)
million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and
2017, respectively. There is no assurance that the Firm’s
litigation reserves will not need to be adjusted in the future.
In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of
legal proceedings, particularly where the claimants seek very
large or indeterminate damages, or where the matters present
novel legal theories, involve a large number of parties or are in
early stages of discovery, the Firm cannot state with
confidence what will be the eventual outcomes of the currently
pending matters, the timing of their ultimate resolution or the
eventual losses, fines, penalties or consequences related to
those matters. JPMorgan Chase believes, based upon its
current knowledge and after consultation with counsel,
consideration of the material legal proceedings described
above and after taking into account its current litigation
reserves and its estimated aggregate range of possible losses,
that the other legal proceedings currently pending against it
should not have a material adverse effect on the Firm’s
consolidated financial condition. The Firm notes, however, that
in light of the uncertainties involved in such proceedings, there
is no assurance that the ultimate resolution of these matters
will not significantly exceed the reserves it has currently
accrued or that a matter will not have material reputational
consequences. As a result, the outcome of a particular matter
may be material to JPMorgan Chase’s operating results for a
particular period, depending on, among other factors, the size
of the loss or liability imposed and the level of JPMorgan
Chase’s income for that period.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 281
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 31 – International operations
The following table presents income statement and balance
sheet-related information for JPMorgan Chase by major
international geographic area. The Firm defines international
activities for purposes of this footnote presentation as business
transactions that involve clients residing outside of the U.S.,
and the information presented below is based predominantly
on the domicile of the client, the location from which the client
relationship is managed, booking location or the location of the
trading desk. However, many of the Firm’s U.S. operations
serve international businesses. As the Firm’s operations are highly integrated, estimates and
subjective assumptions have been made to apportion revenue
and expense between U.S. and international operations. These
estimates and assumptions are consistent with the allocations
used for the Firm’s segment reporting as set forth in Note 32.
The Firm’s long-lived assets for the periods presented are not
considered by management to be significant in relation to total
assets. The majority of the Firm’s long-lived assets are located
in the U.S.
As of or for the year ended December 31,
(in millions)  Revenue(c) Expense(d)Income before
income tax
expense Net income Total assets 
2019     
Europe/Middle East/Africa  $ 15,902 $ 9,977 $ 5,925 $ 4,084 $ 388,353(e) 
Asia-Pacific  7,270 5,014 2,256 1,511 183,408 
Latin America/Caribbean  2,411 1,561 850 613 47,836 
Total international  25,583 16,552 9,031 6,208 619,597 
North America(a)  90,044 54,530 35,514 30,223 2,067,782 
Total  $ 115,627 $ 71,082 $ 44,545 $ 36,431 $ 2,687,379 
2018(b)     
Europe/Middle East/Africa  $ 16,468 $ 10,033 $ 6,435 $ 4,583 $ 426,129(e) 
Asia-Pacific  6,997 4,877 2,120 1,491 171,637 
Latin America/Caribbean  2,365 1,301 1,064 745 43,870 
Total international  25,830 16,211 9,619 6,819 641,636 
North America(a)  83,199 52,054 31,145 25,655 1,980,896 
Total  $ 109,029 $ 68,265 $ 40,764 $ 32,474 $ 2,622,532 
2017(b)     
Europe/Middle East/Africa  $ 15,505 $ 9,235 $ 6,270 $ 4,320 $ 409,204(e) 
Asia-Pacific  5,835 4,523 1,312 725 163,823 
Latin America/Caribbean  1,959 1,527 432 274 42,403 
Total international  23,299 15,285 8,014 5,319 615,430 
North America(a)  77,406 49,520 27,886 19,122 1,918,170 
Total  $ 100,705 $ 64,805 $ 35,900 $ 24,441 $ 2,533,600 
(a)Substantially reflects the U.S.
(b)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
(c)Revenue is composed of net interest income and noninterest revenue.
(d)Expense is composed of noninterest expense and the provision for credit losses.
(e)Total assets for the U.K. were approximately $305 billion, $297 billion, and $310 billion at December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
282 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Note 32 – Business segments
The Firm is managed on an LOB basis. There are four major
reportable business segments – Consumer & Community
Banking, Corporate & Investment Bank, Commercial Banking
and Asset & Wealth Management. In addition, there is a
Corporate segment. The business segments are determined
based on the products and services provided, or the type of
customer served, and they reflect the manner in which
financial information is currently evaluated by the Firm’s
Operating Committee. Segment results are presented on a
managed basis. Refer to Segment results of this footnote for a
further discussion of JPMorgan Chase’s business segments.
The following is a description of each of the Firm’s business
segments, and the products and services they provide to their
respective client bases.
Consumer & Community Banking
Consumer & Community Banking offers services to
consumers and businesses through bank branches, ATMs,
digital (including mobile and online) and telephone banking.
CCB is organized into Consumer & Business Banking
(including Consumer Banking/Chase Wealth Management and
Business Banking), Home Lending (including Home Lending
Production, Home Lending Servicing and Real Estate
Portfolios) and Card, Merchant Services & Auto. Consumer &
Business Banking offers deposit and investment products and
services to consumers, and lending, deposit, and cash
management and payment solutions to small businesses. Home
Lending includes mortgage origination and servicing activities,
as well as portfolios consisting of residential mortgages and
home equity loans. Card, Merchant Services & Auto issues
credit cards to consumers and small businesses, offers payment
processing services to merchants, and originates and services
auto loans and leases.
Corporate & Investment Bank
The Corporate & Investment Bank, which consists of Banking
and Markets & Securities Services, offers a broad suite of
investment banking, market-making, prime brokerage, and
treasury and securities products and services to a global client
base of corporations, investors, financial institutions,
government and municipal entities. Banking offers a full range
of investment banking products and services in all major
capital markets, including advising on corporate strategy and
structure, capital-raising in equity and debt markets, as well as
loan origination and syndication. Banking also includes
Treasury Services, which provides transaction services,
consisting of cash management and liquidity solutions.
Markets & Securities Services is a global market-maker in
cash securities and derivative instruments, and also offers
sophisticated risk management solutions, prime brokerage, and research. Markets
& Securities Services also includes Securities Services, a
leading global custodian which provides custody, fund
accounting and administration, and securities lending products
principally for asset managers, insurance companies and public
and private investment funds.
Commercial Banking
Commercial Banking provides comprehensive financial
solutions, including lending, treasury services, investment
banking and asset management products across three primary
client segments: Middle Market Banking, Corporate Client
Banking and Commercial Real Estate Banking. Other includes
amounts not aligned with a primary client segment.
Middle Market Banking covers small business and midsized
corporations, local governments and nonprofit clients.
Corporate Client Banking covers large corporations.
Commercial Real Estate Banking covers investors, developers,
and owners of multifamily, office, retail, industrial and
affordable housing properties.
Asset & Wealth Management
Asset & Wealth Management, with client assets of $3.2
trillion, is a global leader in investment and wealth
management. AWM clients include institutions, high-net-worth
individuals and retail investors in major markets throughout
the world. AWM offers investment management across most
major asset classes including equities, fixed income,
alternatives and money market funds. AWM also offers multi-
asset investment management, providing solutions for a broad
range of clients’ investment needs. For Wealth Management
clients, AWM also provides retirement products and services,
brokerage and banking services including trusts and estates,
loans, mortgages and deposits. The majority of AWM’s client
assets are in actively managed portfolios.
Corporate
The Corporate segment consists of Treasury and Chief
Investment Office and Other Corporate, which includes
corporate staff functions and expense that is centrally
managed. Treasury and CIO is predominantly responsible for
measuring, monitoring, reporting and managing the Firm’s
liquidity, funding, capital, structural interest rate and foreign
exchange risks. The major Other Corporate functions include
Real Estate, Technology, Legal, Corporate Finance, Human
Resources, Internal Audit, Risk Management, Compliance,
Control Management, Corporate Responsibility and various
Other Corporate groups.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 283
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Segment results
The following table provides a summary of the Firm’s segment
results as of or for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018
and 2017, on a managed basis. The Firm’s definition of
managed basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAP results and
includes certain reclassifications to present total net revenue
for the Firm (and each of the reportable business segments) on
an FTE basis. Accordingly, revenue from investments that
receive tax credits and tax-exempt securities is presented in the
managed results on a basis comparable to taxable investments
and securities. This allows management to assess the
comparability of revenue from year-to-year arising from both
taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income tax
impact related to tax-exempt items is recorded within income
tax expense/(benefit). These adjustments have no impact on
net income as reported by the Firm as a whole or by the LOBs. Business segment capital allocation
Each business segment is allocated capital by taking into
consideration a variety of factors including capital levels of
similarly rated peers and applicable regulatory capital
requirements. ROE is measured and internal targets for
expected returns are established as key measures of a business
segment’s performance.
The Firm’s allocation methodology incorporates Basel III
Standardized RWA, Basel III Advanced RWA, leverage, the
GSIB surcharge, and a simulation of capital in a severe stress
environment. Periodically, the assumptions and methodologies
used to allocate capital are assessed and as a result, the capital
allocated to the LOBs may change.
Segment results and reconciliation
(Table continued on next page)       
As of or for the year
ended
December 31,
(in millions, except
ratios) Consumer & Community Banking Corporate & Investment Bank Commercial Banking Asset & Wealth Management
 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017
Noninterest revenue $ 18,642 $ 16,260 $ 14,710 $ 29,142 $26,968 $ 24,539 $ 2,430 $ 2,343 $ 2,522 $ 10,816 $ 10,539 $ 10,456
Net interest income 37,241 35,819 31,775 9,156 9,480 10,118 6,554 6,716 6,083 3,500 3,537 3,379
Total net revenue 55,883 52,079 46,485 38,298 36,448 34,657 8,984 9,059 8,605 14,316 14,076 13,835
Provision for credit
losses  4,952 4,753 5,572 277 (60) (45) 296 129 (276) 61 53 39
Noninterest expense 28,896 27,835 26,062 21,519 20,918 19,407 3,500 3,386 3,327 10,515 10,353 10,218
Income/(loss) before
income tax
expense/(benefit) 22,035 19,491 14,851 16,502 15,590 15,295 5,188 5,544 5,554 3,740 3,670 3,578
Income tax
expense/(benefit) 5,394 4,639 5,456 4,580 3,817 4,482 1,264 1,307 2,015 907 817 1,241
Net income/(loss) $ 16,641 $ 14,852 $ 9,395 $ 11,922 $11,773 $ 10,813 $ 3,924 $ 4,237 $ 3,539 $ 2,833 $ 2,853 $ 2,337
Average equity  $ 52,000 $ 51,000 $ 51,000 $ 80,000 $70,000 $ 70,000 $ 22,000 $ 20,000 $ 20,000 $ 10,500 $ 9,000 $ 9,000
Total assets  539,090 557,441 552,601 908,153 903,051 826,384 220,514 220,229 221,228 182,004 170,024 151,909
Return on equity  31% 28% 17% 14% 16% 14% 17% 20% 17% 26% 31% 25%
Overhead ratio  52 53 56 56 57 56 39 37 39 73 74 74
284 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
(Table continued from previous page)       
As of or for the year ended
December 31,
(in millions, except ratios) Corporate Reconciling Items(a)  Total
 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018  2017  2019 2018 2017
Noninterest revenue  $ (114)$ (263)$ 1,085 $ (2,534 )$ (1,877 ) $ (2,704 )(b) $ 58,382 $ 53,970 $ 50,608
Net interest income  1,325 135 55 (531) (628) (1,313 ) 57,245 55,059 50,097
Total net revenue  1,211 (128) 1,140 (3,065 ) (2,505 ) (4,017 ) 115,627 109,029 100,705
Provision for credit losses  (1) (4) — — — — 5,585 4,871 5,290
Noninterest expense  1,067 902 501 — — — 65,497 63,394 59,515
Income/(loss) before income
tax expense/(benefit)  145 (1,026 ) 639 (3,065 ) (2,505 ) (4,017 ) 44,545 40,764 35,900
Income tax expense/(benefit)  (966) 215 2,282 (3,065 ) (2,505 ) (4,017 )(b) 8,114 8,290 11,459
Net income/(loss)  $ 1,111$ (1,241 )$ (1,643 ) $ — $ — $ — $ 36,431 $ 32,474 $ 24,441
Average equity  $ 68,407 $ 79,222 $ 80,350 $ — $ — $ — $ 232,907 $ 229,222 $ 230,350
Total assets  837,618 771,787 781,478 NA NA NA 2,687,379 2,622,532 2,533,600
Return on equity  NM NM NM NM NM NM 15% 13% 10%
Overhead ratio  NM NM NM NM NM NM 57 58 59
(a)Segment results on a managed basis reflect revenue on a FTE basis with the corresponding income tax impact recorded within income tax expense/(benefit).
These adjustments are eliminated in reconciling items to arrive at the Firm’s reported U.S. GAAP results.
(b)Included $375 million related to tax-oriented investments as a result of the enactment of the TCJA.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 285
Note 33 – Parent Company
The following tables present Parent Company-only financial
statements.
Statements of income and comprehensive income
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)  2019 2018  2017
Income   
Dividends from subsidiaries and
affiliates:   
Bank and bank holding
company  $ 26,000 $ 32,501  $ 13,000
Non-bank (a)  — 2 540
Interest income from subsidiaries  223 216 72
Other interest income  — — 41
Other income from subsidiaries:   
Bank and bank holding
company  2,738 515 1,553
Non-bank  197 (444) (88)
Other income  (1,731 ) 888 (623)
Total income  27,427 33,678  14,495
Expense   
Interest expense to subsidiaries
and af filiates (a)  (5,303 ) 2,291  400
Other interest expense  13,246 4,581  5,202
Noninterest expense  1,992 1,793  (1,897 )
Total expense  9,935 8,665  3,705
Income before income tax benefit
and undistributed net income of
subsidiaries  17,492 25,013  10,790
Income tax benefit  2,033 1,838  1,007
Equity in undistributed net income
of subsidiaries  16,906 5,623  12,644
Net income  $ 36,431 $ 32,474  $ 24,441
Other comprehensive income, net  3,076 (1,476 ) 1,056
Compr ehensive income  $ 39,507 $ 30,998  $ 25,497
Balance sheets   
December 31, (in millions)  2019 2018
Assets   
Cash and due from banks  $ 32 $ 55
Deposits with banking subsidiaries  5,309 5,315
Trading assets  3,011 3,304
Advances to, and receivables from, subsidiaries:   
Bank and bank holding company  2,358 3,334
Non-bank  84 74
Investments (at equity) in subsidiaries and
affiliates:   
Bank and bank holding company  471,207 449,628
Non-bank  1,044 1,077
Other assets  10,699 10,478
Total assets  $ 493,744 $ 473,265
Liabilities and stockholders’  equity   
Borrowings from, and payables to, subsidiaries
and af filiates (a)  $ 23,410 $ 20,017
Short-term borrowings  2,616 2,672
Other liabilities  9,288 8,821
Long-term debt (b)(c)  197,100 185,240
Total liabilities (c)  232,414 216,750
Total stockholders’  equity  261,330 256,515
Total liabilities and stockholders’  equity  $ 493,744 $ 473,265 
Statements of cash flows  
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)  2019 2018  2017
Operating activities     
Net income  $ 36,431 $ 32,474  $ 24,441
Less: Net income of subsidiaries
and af filiates (a)  42,906 38,125  26,185
Parent company net loss  (6,475 ) (5,651 ) (1,744 )
Cash dividends from subsidiaries
and af filiates (a)  26,000 32,501  13,540
Other operating adjustments  9,862 (4,400 ) 4,635
Net cash pr ovided by/(used in)
operating activities  29,387 22,450  16,431
Investing activities     
Net change in:     
Other changes in loans, net  — — 78
Advances to and investments in
subsidiaries and af filiates, net  (6)(e) 8,036  (280)
All other investing activities, net  71 63 49
Net cash pr ovided by/(used in)
investing activities  65 8,099  (153)
Financing activities     
Net change in:     
Borrowings from subsidiaries
and af filiates (a)  2,941 (2,273 ) 13,862
Short-term borrowings  (56) (678) (481)
Proceeds from long-term
borrowings  25,569 25,845  25,855
Payments of long-term
borrowings  (21,226 ) (21,956 ) (29,812 )
Proceeds from issuance of
preferred stock  5,000 1,696  1,258
Redemption of preferred stock  (4,075 ) (1,696 ) (1,258 )
Treasury stock repurchased  (24,001 ) (19,983 ) (15,410 )
Dividends paid  (12,343 ) (10,109 ) (8,993 )
All other financing activities, net  (1,290 ) (1,526 ) (1,361 )
Net cash used in financing
activities  (29,481 ) (30,680 ) (16,340 )
Net decrease in cash and due
from banks and deposits with
banking subsidiaries  (29) (131) (62)
Cash and due from banks and
deposits with banking
subsidiaries at the beginning of
the year  5,370 5,501  5,563
Cash and due fr om banks and
deposits with banking
subsidiaries at the end of the
year  $ 5,341 $ 5,370  $ 5,501
Cash interest paid  $ 7,957 $ 6,911 $ 5,426
Cash income taxes paid, net (d) 3,910 1,782  1,775
(a)Affiliates include trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities (“issuer trusts”).
(b)At December 31, 2019, long-term debt that contractually matures in 2020 through
2024 totaled $16.4 billion, $20.4 billion, $12.7 billion, $18.6 billion, and $18.2
billion, respectively.
(c)Refer to Notes 20 and 28 for information regarding the Parent Company’s guarantees
of its subsidiaries’ obligations.
(d)Represents payments, net of refunds, made by the Parent Company to various taxing
authorities and includes taxes paid on behalf of certain of its subsidiaries that are
subsequently reimbursed. The reimbursements were $6.4 billion, $1.2 billion, and
$4.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively.
(e)As a result of the merger of Chase Bank USA, N.A. with and into JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. distributed $13.5 billion to the Parent
company as a return of capital, which the Parent company contributed to the IHC.
286 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Supplementary information
Selected quarterly financial data (unaudited)
As of or for the period ended 2019  2018  
(in millions, except per share, ratio,
headcount data and where otherwise noted) 4th quarter 3rd quarter 2nd quarter 1st quarter 4th quarter 3rd quarter 2nd quarter 1st quarter 
Selected income statement data         
Total net revenue $ 28,331 $ 29,341 $ 28,832 $ 29,123 $ 26,109 $ 27,260$ 27,753$ 27,907 
Total noninterest expense 16,339 16,422 16,341 16,395 15,720 15,623 15,971 16,080 
Pre-provision profit 11,992 12,919 12,491 12,728 10,389 11,637 11,782 11,827 
Provision for credit losses 1,427 1,514 1,149 1,495 1,548 948 1,210 1,165 
Income before income tax expense 10,565 11,405 11,342 11,233 8,841 10,689 10,572 10,662 
Income tax expense 2,045 2,325 1,690 2,054 1,775 2,309 2,256 1,950 
Net income $ 8,520 $ 9,080 $ 9,652 $ 9,179 $ 7,066 $ 8,380$ 8,316$ 8,712 
Earnings per share data         
Net income: Basic $ 2.58 $ 2.69 $ 2.83 $ 2.65 $ 1.99 $ 2.35$ 2.31$ 2.38 
  Diluted 2.57 2.68 2.82 2.65 1.98 2.34 2.29 2.37 
Average shares: Basic 3,140.7 3,198.5 3,250.6 3,298.0 3,335.8 3,376.1 3,415.2 3,458.3 
Diluted 3,148.5 3,207.2 3,259.7 3,308.2 3,347.3 3,394.3 3,434.7 3,479.5 
Market and per common share data         
Market capitalization $ 429,913 $ 369,133 $ 357,479 $ 328,387 $ 319,780 $ 375,239$ 350,204$ 374,423 
Common shares at period-end 3,084.0 3,136.5 3,197.5 3,244.0 3,275.8 3,325.4 3,360.9 3,404.8 
Book value per share 75.98 75.24 73.88 71.78 70.35 69.52 68.85 67.59 
TBVPS(a) 60.98 60.48 59.52 57.62 56.33 55.68 55.14 54.05 
Cash dividends declared per share 0.90 0.90 0.80 0.80 0.80 0.80 0.56 0.56 
Selected ratios and metrics         
ROE(b) 14% 15% 16% 16% 12% 14% 14% 15% 
ROTCE(a)(b) 17 18 20 19 14 17 17 19 
ROA(b) 1.22 1.30 1.41 1.39 1.06 1.28 1.28 1.37 
Overhead ratio 58 56 57 56 60 57 58 58 
Loans-to-deposits ratio 61 62 63 64 67 65 65 63 
LCR (average)(c) 116 115 113 111 113 115 115 115 
CET1 capital ratio(d) 12.4 12.3 12.2 12.1 12.0 12.0 12.0 11.8 
Tier 1 capital ratio(d) 14.1 14.1 14.0 13.8 13.7 13.6 13.6 13.5 
Total capital ratio(d) 16.0 15.9 15.8 15.7 15.5 15.4 15.5 15.3 
Tier 1 leverage ratio(d) 7.9 7.9 8.0 8.1 8.1 8.2 8.2 8.2 
SLR(e) 6.3 6.3 6.4 6.4 6.4 6.5 6.5 6.5 
Selected balance sheet data (period-end)        
Trading assets $ 411,103 $ 495,875 $ 523,373 $ 533,402 $ 413,714 $ 419,827$ 418,799$ 412,282 
Investment Securities 398,239 394,251 307,264 267,365 $ 261,828 231,398 233,015 238,188 
Loans 959,769 945,218 956,889 956,245 $ 984,554 954,318 948,414 934,424 
Core loans 916,144 899,572 908,971 905,943 931,856 899,006 889,433 870,536 
Average core loans 903,707 900,567 905,786 916,567 907,271 894,279 877,640 861,089 
Total assets 2,687,379 2,764,661 2,727,379 2,737,188 2,622,532 2,615,183 2,590,050 2,609,785 
Deposits 1,562,431 1,525,261 1,524,361 1,493,441 1,470,666 1,458,762 1,452,122 1,486,961 
Long-term debt 291,498 296,472 288,869 290,893 282,031 270,124 273,114 274,449 
Common stockholders’ equity 234,337 235,985 236,222 232,844 230,447 231,192 231,390 230,133 
Total stockholders’ equity 261,330 264,348 263,215 259,837 256,515 258,956 257,458 256,201 
Headcount 256,981 257,444 254,983 255,998 256,105 255,313 252,942 253,707 
Credit quality metrics         
Allowance for credit losses $ 14,314 $ 14,400 $ 14,295 $ 14,591 $ 14,500 $ 14,225$ 14,367$ 14,482 
Allowance for loan losses to total retained
loans 1.39% 1.42% 1.39% 1.43% 1.39% 1.39% 1.41% 1.44% 
Allowance for loan losses to retained loans
excluding purchased credit-impaired1.31 1.32 1.28 1.28 1.23 1.23 1.22 1.25 
loans(f)
Nonperforming assets $ 4,497 $ 5,343 $ 5,260 $ 5,616 $ 5,190 $ 5,034$ 5,767$ 6,364 
Net charge-offs 1,494 1,371 1,403 1,361 1,236 1,033 1,252 1,335 
Net charge-off rate 0.63% 0.58% 0.60% 0.58% 0.52% 0.43% 0.54% 0.59% 
(a)TBVPS and ROTCE are non-GAAP  financial measures. Refer to Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm’ s Use of Non-GAAP  Financial Measures and Key
Performance Measures on pages 57–59  for further discussion of these measures.
(b)Quarterly ratios are based upon annualized amounts.
(c)The percentage represents the Firm’ s reported average LCR.    
(d)The Basel III capital rules became fully phased-in ef fective January 1, 2019. Prior to this date, the required capital measures were subject to the transitional rules which, as
of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, were the same on a fully phased-in and transitional basis. Refer to Capital Risk Management on pages 85–92  for
additional information on these measures.
(e)The Basel III rule for the SLR became fully phased-in ef fective January 1, 2018. Refer to Capital Risk Management on pages 85–92  for additional information on these
measures.
(f)This ratio is a non-GAAP  financial measure as it excludes the impact of residential real estate PCI loans. Refer to Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm’ s Use of
Non-GAAP  Financial Measures and Key Performance Measures on pages 57–59 , and the Allowance for credit losses on pages 1 16–1 17 for further discussion of this
measure.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 287
Distribution of assets, liabilities and stockholders’  equity; inter est rates and inter est differ entials
Consolidated average balance sheets, interest and rates
Provided below is a summary of JPMorgan Chase’s
consolidated average balances, interest and rates on a taxable-
equivalent basis for the years 2017 through 2019. Income
computed on a taxable-equivalent basis is the income reported
in the Consolidated statements of income, adjusted to present interest income and rates earned on assets
exempt from income taxes (i.e., federal taxes) on a basis
comparable with other taxable investments. The incremental
tax rate used for calculating the taxable-equivalent adjustment
was approximately 24% in both 2019 and 2018, and 37% in
2017.
(Table continued on next page)     
(Unaudited) 2019
Year ended December 31,
(Taxable-equivalent interest and rates; in millions, except rates)Average
balance  Interest (h)  Rate
Assets     
Deposits with banks $ 280,004  $ 3,887  1.39%
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements 275,429  6,146  2.23
Securities borrowed (a) 131,291  1,574 1.20
Trading assets – debt instruments (a) 334,269  10,848  3.25
Taxable securities 284,127  7,962  2.80
Non-taxable securities (b) 35,748  1,655  4.63
Total investment securities 319,875  9,617  3.01 (j) 
Loans 954,539  50,532 (i) 5.29
All other interest-earning assets (a)(c) 50,084  1,967  3.93
Total interest-earning assets (a) 2,345,491  84,571  3.61
Allowance for loan losses (13,331 )   
Cash and due from banks 20,645    
Trading assets – equity and other instruments (a) 114,323    
Trading assets – derivative receivables 53,786    
Goodwill, MSRs and other intangible assets 53,683    
All other noninterest-earning assets 167,244    
Total assets $ 2,741,841    
Liabilities     
Interest-bearing deposits (a) $ 1,115,848  $ 8,957  0.80%
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements 227,994  4,630  2.03
Short-term borrowings (a)(d) 52,426  1,248  2.38
Trading liabilities – debt and all other interest-bearing liabilities (a)(e)(f) 182,105  2,585  1.42
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs 22,501  568 2.52
Long-term debt (a) 247,968  8,807  3.55
Total interest-bearing liabilities (a) 1,848,842  26,795  1.45
Noninterest-bearing deposits (a) 407,219    
Trading liabilities – equity and other instruments (a)(f) 31,085    
Trading liabilities – derivative payables 42,560    
All other liabilities, including the allowance for lending-related commitments (a) 151,717    
Total liabilities 2,481,423    
Stockholders’  equity     
Preferred stock 27,51 1   
Common stockholders’  equity 232,907    
Total stockholders’  equity 260,418 (g)   
Total liabilities and stockholders’  equity $ 2,741,841    
Interest rate spread (a)    2.16%
Net interest income and net yield on interest-earning assets (a)   $ 57,776  2.46
(a)In the second quarter of 2019, the Firm implemented certain presentation changes that impacted interest income and interest expense, but had no ef fect on net interest
income. These changes were made to align the accounting treatment between the balance sheet and the related interest income or expense, primarily by of fsetting interest
income and expense for certain prime brokerage-related held-for -investment customer receivables and payables that are currently presented as a single mar gin account on
the balance sheet. In addition, the Firm reclassified balances related to certain instruments and structured notes from interest-earning/bearing to noninterest-
earning/bearing assets and liabilities as the associated returns are recorded in principal transactions revenue and not in net interest income. These changes were applied
retrospectively and, accordingly , prior period amounts were revised to conform with the current presentation.
(b)Represents securities that are tax-exempt for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
(c)Includes prime brokerage-related held-for -investment customer receivables, which are classified in accrued interest and accounts receivable, and all other interest-earning
assets, which are classified in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
(d)Includes commercial paper .
(e)All other interest-bearing liabilities include prime brokerage-related customer payables.
288 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Within the Consolidated average balance sheets, interest and
rates summary, the principal amounts of nonaccrual loans
have been included in the average loan balances used to determine the average interest rate earned on loans. Refer
to Note 12 for additional information on nonaccrual loans,
including interest accrued.
(Table continued from previous page)        
2018 2017
Average
balance Interest (h)  RateAverage
balance  Interest (h)  Rate
        
$ 405,514 $ 5,907  1.46% $ 439,663  $ 4,238  0.96%
217,150 3,819  1.76 191,820  2,327  1.21
115,082 913 0.79 95,324  94 0.10
244,771 8,763  3.58 227,588  7,714  3.39
194,232 5,653  2.91 223,592  5,534  2.48
42,456 1,987  4.68 45,086  2,769  6.14
236,688 7,640  3.23 (j) 268,678  8,303  3.09 (j) 
944,885 47,796 (i) 5.06 906,397  41,296 (i) 4.56
48,818 1,890  3.87 41,504  1,312  3.16
2,212,908 76,728  3.47 2,170,974  65,284  3.01
(13,269 )   (13,453 )    
21,694   20,432     
118,152   125,530     
60,734   59,588     
54,669   53,999     
154,010   138,992     
$ 2,608,898   $ 2,556,062     
        
$ 1,045,037 $ 5,973  0.57% $ 1,006,184  $ 2,857  0.28%
189,282 3,066  1.62 187,386  1,611 0.86
54,993 1,144  2.08 38,095  481 1.26
177,788 2,387  1.34 171,731  1,669  0.97
21,079 493 2.34 32,457  503 1.55
243,246 7,978  3.28 263,928  6,753  2.56
1,731,425 21,041  1.22 1,699,781  13,874  0.82
411,424   411,202     
34,667   21,104     
43,075   44,122     
132,836   123,291     
2,353,427   2,299,500     
        
26,249   26,212     
229,222   230,350     
255,471 (g)   256,562 (g)    
$ 2,608,898   $ 2,556,062     
  2.25%     2.19%
 $ 55,687  2.52   $ 51,410  2.37
(f)The combined balance of trading liabilities – debt and equity instruments was $101.0 billion, $107.0 billion and $90.7 billion for the years ended December 31, 2019 , 2018
and 2017 , respectively .
(g)The ratio of average stockholders’  equity to average assets was 9.5% , 9.8%  and 10.0%  for the years ended December 31, 2019 , 2018  and 2017 , respectively .
The return on average stockholders’  equity , based on net income, was 14.0% , 12.7%  and 9.5%  for the years ended December 31, 2019 , 2018  and 2017 , respectively .
(h)Interest includes the ef fect of related hedging derivatives. Taxable-equivalent amounts are used where applicable.
(i)Fees and commissions on loans included in loan interest amounted to $1.2 billion  each for the years ended December 31, 2019  and 2018 , and $1.0 billion  for 2017 .
(j)The annualized rate for securities based on amortized cost was 3.05% , 3.25%  and 3.13%  for the years ended December 31, 2019 , 2018  and 2017 , respectively , and does
not give ef fect to changes in fair value that are reflected in AOCI.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 289
Inter est rates and inter est differ ential analysis of net inter est income – U.S. and non-U.S.
Presented below is a summary of interest and rates segregated
between U.S. and non-U.S. operations for the years 2017
through 2019. The segregation of U.S. and non-U.S.
components is based on the location of the office recording the transaction.
Intercompany funding generally consists of dollar-
denominated deposits originated in various locations that are
centrally managed by Treasury and CIO.
(Table continued on next page)   
 2019
(Unaudited)
Year ended December 31,
(Taxable-equivalent interest and rates; in millions, except rates) Average balance Interest Rate
Interest-earning assets   
Deposits with banks:   
U.S. $ 165,066$ 3,588 2.17%
Non-U.S. 114,938 299 0.26
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements:   
U.S. 150,205 4,068 2.71
Non-U.S. 125,224 2,078 1.66
Securities borrowed:(a)   
U.S. 92,625 1,423 1.54
Non-U.S. 38,666 151 0.39
Trading assets – debt instruments:   
U.S. 223,270 7,125 3.19
Non-U.S. 110,999 3,723 3.35
Investment securities:   
U.S. 287,961 8,963 3.11
Non-U.S. 31,914 654 2.05
Loans:   
U.S. 875,869 48,097 5.49
Non-U.S. 78,670 2,435 3.10
All other interest-earning assets, predominantly U.S.(a) 50,084 1,967 3.93
Total interest-earning assets(a) 2,345,491 84,571 3.61
Interest-bearing liabilities   
Interest-bearing deposits:   
U.S. 850,493 6,896 0.81
Non-U.S. 265,355 2,061 0.78
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements:   
U.S. 164,284 3,989 2.43
Non-U.S. 63,710 641 1.01
Trading liabilities – debt, short-term and all other interest-bearing liabilities:(a)(b)   
U.S. 147,247 2,574 1.75
Non-U.S. 87,284 1,259 1.44
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs, predominantly U.S. 22,501 568 2.52
Long-term debt:   
U.S. 241,914 8,766 3.62
Non-U.S. 6,054 41 0.68
Intercompany funding:   
U.S. (42,947) (1,414) —
Non-U.S. 42,947 1,414 —
Total interest-bearing liabilities(a) 1,848,842 26,795 1.45
Noninterest-bearing liabilities(c) 496,649 
Total investable funds $ 2,345,491$ 26,795 1.14%
Net interest income and net yield:  $ 57,776 2.46%
U.S.  52,217 2.86
Non-U.S.  5,559 1.07
Percentage of total assets and liabilities attributable to non-U.S. operations:   
Assets   24.5
Liabilities   22.1
(a)In the second quarter of 2019, the Firm implemented certain presentation changes that impacted interest income and interest expense, but had no ef fect on net interest
income. These changes were made to align the accounting treatment between the balance sheet and the related interest income or expense, primarily by of fsetting interest
income and expense for certain prime brokerage-related held-for -investment customer receivables and payables that are currently presented as a single mar gin account on
the balance sheet. These changes were applied retrospectively and, accordingly , prior period amounts were revised to conform with the current presentation.
(b)Includes commercial paper .
(c)Represents the amount of noninterest-bearing liabilities funding interest-earning assets.
290 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Refer to the “Net interest income” discussion in Consolidated Results of Operations on pages 48–51 for further information.
(Table continued from previous page)     
2018 2017  
Average balance Interest  Rate  Average balance Interest  Rate  
       
       
$ 305,117$ 5,703 1.87% $ 366,814$ 4,093 1.12% 
100,397 204 0.20 72,849 145 0.20 
       
102,144 2,427 2.38 90,879 1,360 1.50 
115,006 1,392 1.21 100,941 967 0.96 
       
77,027 825 1.07 68,110 65 0.11 
38,055 88 0.23 27,214 29 0.11 
       
140,221 5,068 3.61 128,157 4,186 3.27 
104,550 3,695 3.53 99,431 3,528 3.55 
       
200,883 6,943 3.46 223,140 7,490 3.36 
35,805 697 1.95 45,538 813 1.79 
       
864,149 45,395 5.25 832,608 39,439 4.74 
80,736 2,401 2.97 73,789 1,857 2.52 
48,818 1,890 3.87 41,504 1,312 3.16 
2,212,908 76,728 3.47 2,170,974 65,284 3.01 
       
       
802,786 4,562 0.57 769,596 2,223 0.29 
242,251 1,411 0.58 236,588 634 0.27 
       
117,754 2,562 2.18 115,574 1,349 1.17 
71,528 504 0.70 71,812 262 0.37 
       
147,512 2,225 1.51 134,826 927 0.69 
85,269 1,306 1.53 75,000 1,223 1.63 
21,079 493 2.34 32,457 503 1.55 
       
239,718 7,954 3.32 262,817 6,745 2.57 
3,528 24 0.68 1,111 8 0.72 
       
(51,933) (746) — (2,874) (25) — 
51,933 746 — 2,874 25 — 
1,731,425 21,041 1.22 1,699,781 13,874 0.82 
481,483   471,193   
$ 2,212,908$ 21,041 0.95% $ 2,170,974$ 13,874 0.64% 
 $ 55,687 2.52% $ 51,410 2.37% 
 50,236 2.95 46,059 2.69 
 5,451 1.05 5,351 1.16 
       
   24.7   22.5 
   22.3   21.1 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 291
Changes in net inter est income, volume and rate analysis
The table below presents an attribution of net interest income between volume and rate. The attribution between volume and rate is
calculated using annual average balances for each category of assets and liabilities shown in the table and the corresponding annual
rates (refer to pages 288–292 for more information on average balances and rates). In this analysis, when the change cannot be isolated
to either volume or rate, it has been allocated to volume. The annual rates include the impact of changes in market rates, as well as the
impact of any change in composition of the various products within each category of asset or liability. This analysis is calculated
separately for each category without consideration of the relationship between categories (for example, the net spread between the rates
earned on assets and the rates paid on liabilities that fund those assets). As a result, changes in the granularity or groupings considered
in this analysis would produce a different attribution result, and due to the complexities involved, precise allocation of changes in
interest rates between volume and rates is inherently complex and judgmental.
 2019 versus 2018  2018 versus 2017
(Unaudited)Increase/(decrease) due to
change in:   Increase/(decrease) due to
change in:  
Year ended December 31,
(On a taxable-equivalent basis; in millions) Volume Rate  Net
change Volume Rate  Net
change
Interest-earning assets       
Deposits with banks:       
U.S. $ (3,030) $ 915 $ (2,115) $(1,141) $ 2,751 $ 1,610
Non-U.S. 35 60 95 59 — 59
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale
agreements:        
U.S. 1,304 337 1,641 267 800 1,067
Non-U.S. 168 518 686 173 252 425
Securities borrowed:(a)        
U.S. 236 362 598 106 654 760
Non-U.S. 2 61 63 26 33 59
Trading assets – debt instruments:        
U.S. 2,646 (589) 2,057 446 436 882
Non-U.S. 216 (188) 28 187 (20) 167
Investment securities:        
U.S. 2,723 (703) 2,020 (770) 223 (547)
Non-U.S. (79) 36 (43) (189) 73 (116)
Loans:        
U.S. 628 2,074 2,702 1,710 4,246 5,956
Non-U.S. (71) 105 34 212 332 544
All other interest-earning assets, predominantly U.S.(a) 48 29 77 283 295 578
Change in interest income(a) 4,826 3,017 7,843 1,369 10,075 11,444
Interest-bearing liabilities       
Interest-bearing deposits:       
U.S. 407 1,927 2,334 184 2,155 2,339
Non-U.S. 165 485 650 44 733 777
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under
repurchase agreements:       
U.S. 1,133 294 1,427 46 1,167 1,213
Non-U.S. (85) 222 137 5 237 242
Trading liabilities – debt, short-term and all other interest-bearing
liabilities: (a)(b)       
U.S. (5) 354 349 203 1,095 1,298
Non-U.S. 30 (77) (47) 158 (75) 83
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs, predominantly
U.S. 37 38 75 (266) 256 (10)
Long-term debt:      
U.S. 93 719 812 (762) 1,971 1,209
Non-U.S. 17 — 17 16 — 16
Intercompany funding:       
U.S. 293 (961) (668) (704) (17) (721)
Non-U.S. (293) 961 668 704 17 721
Change in interest expense(a) 1,792 3,962 5,754 (372) 7,539 7,167
Change in net interest income $ 3,034 $ (945) $ 2,089 $ 1,741 $ 2,536 $ 4,277
(a)In the second quarter of 2019, the Firm implemented certain presentation changes that impacted interest income and interest expense, but had no effect on net interest income.
These changes were made to align the accounting treatment between the balance sheet and the related interest income or expense, primarily by offsetting interest income and
expense for certain prime brokerage-related held-for-investment customer receivables and payables that are currently presented as a single margin account on the balance sheet.
These changes were applied retrospectively and, accordingly, prior period amounts were revised to conform with the current presentation.
(b)Includes commercial paper.
292 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Glossary of Terms and Acronyms
2019 Form 10-K: Annual report on Form 10-K for year ended
December 31, 2019, filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.
ABS: Asset-backed securities
AFS: Available-for-sale
ALCO: Asset Liability Committee
AWM: Asset & Wealth Management
AOCI: Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)
ARM: Adjustable rate mortgage(s)
AUC: Assets under custody
AUM: “Assets under management”: Represent assets
managed by AWM on behalf of its Private Banking,
Institutional and Retail clients. Includes “Committed capital
not Called.”
Auto loan and lease origination volume: Dollar amount of
auto loans and leases originated.
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs: Represents
the interest of third-party holders of debt, equity securities, or
other obligations, issued by VIEs that JPMorgan Chase
consolidates.
Benefit obligation: Refers to the projected benefit obligation
for pension plans and the accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation for OPEB plans.
BHC: Bank holding company
Card Services includes the Credit Card and Merchant
Services businesses.
CB: Commercial Banking
CBB: Consumer & Business Banking
CCAR: Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review
CCB: Consumer & Community Banking
CCO: Chief Compliance Officer
CCP: “Central counterparty” is a clearing house that
interposes itself between counterparties to contracts traded in
one or more financial markets, becoming the buyer to every
seller and the seller to every buyer and thereby ensuring the
future performance of open contracts. A CCP becomes a
counterparty to trades with market participants through
novation, an open offer system, or another legally binding
arrangement.
CDS: Credit default swaps
CECL: Current Expected Credit Losses
CEO: Chief Executive Officer
CET1 Capital: Common equity Tier 1 capital
CFTC: Commodity Futures Trading Commission
CFO: Chief Financial Officer CFP: Contingency funding plan
Chase Bank USA, N.A.: Chase Bank USA, National
Association
CIB: Corporate & Investment Bank
CIO: Chief Investment Office
Client assets: Represent assets under management as well as
custody, brokerage, administration and deposit accounts.
Client deposits and other third-party liabilities: Deposits, as
well as deposits that are swept to on-balance sheet liabilities
(e.g., commercial paper, federal funds purchased and securities
loaned or sold under repurchase agreements) as part of client
cash management programs.
CLO: Collateralized loan obligations
CLTV: Combined loan-to-value
Collateral-dependent: A loan is considered to be collateral-
dependent when repayment of the loan is expected to be
provided solely by the underlying collateral, rather than by
cash flows from the borrower’s operations, income or other
resources.
Commercial Card: provides a wide range of payment
services to corporate and public sector clients worldwide
through the commercial card products. Services include
procurement, corporate travel and entertainment, expense
management services, and business-to-business payment
solutions.
Core loans: Represents loans central to the Firm’s ongoing
businesses; core loans exclude loans classified as trading
assets, runoff portfolios, discontinued portfolios and portfolios
the Firm has an intent to exit.
Credit cycle: A period of time over which credit quality
improves, deteriorates and then improves again (or vice versa).
The duration of a credit cycle can vary from a couple of years
to several years.
Credit derivatives: Financial instruments whose value is
derived from the credit risk associated with the debt of a third-
party issuer (the reference entity) which allow one party (the
protection purchaser) to transfer that risk to another party (the
protection seller). Upon the occurrence of a credit event by the
reference entity, which may include, among other events, the
bankruptcy or failure to pay its obligations, or certain
restructurings of the debt of the reference entity, neither party
has recourse to the reference entity. The protection purchaser
has recourse to the protection seller for the difference between
the face value of the CDS contract and the fair value at the
time of settling the credit derivative contract. The
determination as to whether a credit event has occurred is
generally made by the relevant International Swaps and
Derivatives Association (“ISDA”) Determinations Committee.
Criticized: Criticized loans, lending-related commitments and
derivative receivables that are classified as special
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 293
Glossary of Terms and Acronyms
mention, substandard and doubtful categories for regulatory
purposes.
CRO: Chief Risk Officer
CRSC: Conduct Risk Steering Committee
CTC: CIO, Treasury and Corporate
CVA: Credit valuation adjustment
Debit and credit card sales volume: Dollar amount of card
member purchases, net of returns.
Deposit margin/deposit spread: Represents net interest
income expressed as a percentage of average deposits.
Distributed denial-of-service attack: The use of a large
number of remote computer systems to electronically send a
high volume of traffic to a target website to create a service
outage at the target. This is a form of cyberattack.
Dodd-Frank Act: Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act
DVA: Debit valuation adjustment
EC: European Commission
Eligible LTD: Long-term debt satisfying certain eligibility
criteria
Embedded derivatives: are implicit or explicit terms or
features of a financial instrument that affect some or all of the
cash flows or the value of the instrument in a manner similar to
a derivative. An instrument containing such terms or features is
referred to as a “hybrid.” The component of the hybrid that is
the non-derivative instrument is referred to as the “host.” For
example, callable debt is a hybrid instrument that contains a
plain vanilla debt instrument (i.e., the host) and an embedded
option that allows the issuer to redeem the debt issue at a
specified date for a specified amount (i.e., the embedded
derivative). However, a floating rate instrument is not a hybrid
composed of a fixed-rate instrument and an interest rate swap.
ERISA: Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
EPS: Earnings per share
ETD: “Exchange-traded derivatives”: Derivative contracts
that are executed on an exchange and settled via a central
clearing house.
EU: European Union
Fannie Mae: Federal National Mortgage Association
FASB: Financial Accounting Standards Board
FCA: Financial Conduct Authority
FCC: Firmwide Control Committee
FDIA: Federal Depository Insurance Act
FDIC: Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Federal Reserve: The Board of the Governors of the Federal
Reserve System FFIEC: Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
FHA: Federal Housing Administration
FHLB: Federal Home Loan Bank
FICC: The Fixed Income Clearing Corporation
FICO score: A measure of consumer credit risk provided by
credit bureaus, typically produced from statistical models by
Fair Isaac Corporation utilizing data collected by the credit
bureaus.
Firm: JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Forward points: Represents the interest rate differential
between two currencies, which is either added to or subtracted
from the current exchange rate (i.e., “spot rate”) to determine
the forward exchange rate.
FRC: Firmwide Risk Committee
Freddie Mac: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
Free standing derivatives: a derivative contract entered into
either separate and apart from any of the Firm’s other financial
instruments or equity transactions. Or, in conjunction with
some other transaction and is legally detachable and separately
exercisable.
FSB: Financial Stability Board
FTE: Fully taxable equivalent
FVA: Funding valuation adjustment
FX: Foreign exchange
G7: Group of Seven nations: Countries in the G7 are Canada,
France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the U.K. and the U.S.
G7 government bonds: Bonds issued by the government of
one of the G7 nations.
Ginnie Mae: Government National Mortgage Association
GSIB: Global systemically important banks
Headcount-related expense: Includes salary and benefits
(excluding performance-based incentives), and other
noncompensation costs related to employees.
HELOAN: Home equity loan
HELOC: Home equity line of credit
Home equity – senior lien: Represents loans and
commitments where JPMorgan Chase holds the first security
interest on the property.
Home equity – junior lien: Represents loans and
commitments where JPMorgan Chase holds a security interest
that is subordinate in rank to other liens.
Households: A household is a collection of individuals or
entities aggregated together by name, address, tax identifier
and phone number.
HQLA: High-quality liquid assets
HTM: Held-to-maturity
294 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Glossary of Terms and Acronyms
IBOR: Interbank Offered Rate
ICAAP: Internal capital adequacy assessment process
IDI: Insured depository institutions
IHC: JPMorgan Chase Holdings LLC, an intermediate holding
company
Impaired loan: Impaired loans are loans measured at
amortized cost, for which it is probable that the Firm will be
unable to collect all amounts due, including principal and
interest, according to the contractual terms of the agreement.
Impaired loans include the following:
•All wholesale nonaccrual loans
•All TDRs (both wholesale and consumer), including ones
that have returned to accrual status
Investment-grade: An indication of credit quality based on
JPMorgan Chase’s internal risk assessment. The Firm
considers ratings of BBB-/Baa3 or higher as investment-grade.
IPO: Initial public offering
ISDA: International Swaps and Derivatives Association
JPMorgan Chase: JPMorgan Chase & Co.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.: JPMorgan Chase Bank,
National Association
JPMorgan Securities: J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
Loan-equivalent: Represents the portion of the unused
commitment or other contingent exposure that is expected,
based on historical portfolio experience, to become drawn
prior to an event of a default by an obligor.
LCR: Liquidity coverage ratio
LDA: Loss Distribution Approach
LGD: Loss given default
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate
LLC: Limited Liability Company
LOB: Line of business
LOB CROs: Line of Business and CTC Chief Risk Officers
Loss emergence period: Represents the time period between
the date at which the loss is estimated to have been incurred
and the ultimate realization of that loss.
LTIP: Long-term incentive plan
LTV: “Loan-to-value”: For residential real estate loans, the
relationship, expressed as a percentage, between the principal
amount of a loan and the appraised value of the collateral (i.e.,
residential real estate) securing the loan.
Origination date LTV ratio
The LTV ratio at the origination date of the loan. Origination
date LTV ratios are calculated based on the actual appraised
values of collateral (i.e., loan-level data) at the origination date.
Current estimated LTV ratio
An estimate of the LTV as of a certain date. The current
estimated LTV ratios are calculated using estimated collateral
values derived from a nationally recognized home price index
measured at the metropolitan statistical area (“MSA”) level.
These MSA-level home price indices consist of actual data to
the extent available and forecasted data where actual data is
not available. As a result, the estimated collateral values used
to calculate these ratios do not represent actual appraised loan-
level collateral values; as such, the resulting LTV ratios are
necessarily imprecise and should therefore be viewed as
estimates.
Combined LTV ratio
The LTV ratio considering all available lien positions, as well
as unused lines, related to the property. Combined LTV ratios
are used for junior lien home equity products.
Managed basis: A non-GAAP presentation of Firmwide
financial results that includes reclassifications to present
revenue on a fully taxable-equivalent basis. Management also
uses this financial measure at the segment level, because it
believes this provides information to enable investors to
understand the underlying operational performance and trends
of the particular business segment and facilitates a comparison
of the business segment with the performance of competitors.
Master netting agreement: A single agreement with a
counterparty that permits multiple transactions governed by
that agreement to be terminated or accelerated and settled
through a single payment in a single currency in the event of a
default (e.g., bankruptcy, failure to make a required payment or
securities transfer or deliver collateral or margin when due).
Measurement alternative: Measures equity securities without
readily determinable fair values at cost less impairment (if
any), plus or minus observable price changes from an identical
or similar investment of the same issuer.
MBS: Mortgage-backed securities
MD&A: Management’s discussion and analysis
Merchant Services: is a business that primarily processes
transactions for merchants.
Moody’s: Moody’s Investor Services
Mortgage origination channels:
Retail – Borrowers who buy or refinance a home through
direct contact with a mortgage banker employed by the Firm
using a branch office, the Internet or by phone. Borrowers are
frequently referred to a mortgage banker by a banker in a
Chase branch, real estate brokers, home builders or other third
parties.
Correspondent – Banks, thrifts, other mortgage banks and
other financial institutions that sell closed loans to the Firm.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 295
Glossary of Terms and Acronyms
Mortgage product types:
Alt-A
Alt-A loans are generally higher in credit quality than
subprime loans but have characteristics that would disqualify
the borrower from a traditional prime loan. Alt-A lending
characteristics may include one or more of the following: (i)
limited documentation; (ii) a high CLTV ratio; (iii) loans
secured by non-owner occupied properties; or (iv) a debt-to-
income ratio above normal limits. A substantial proportion of
the Firm’s Alt-A loans are those where a borrower does not
provide complete documentation of his or her assets or the
amount or source of his or her income.
Option ARMs
The option ARM real estate loan product is an adjustable-rate
mortgage loan that provides the borrower with the option each
month to make a fully amortizing, interest-only or minimum
payment. The minimum payment on an option ARM loan is
based on the interest rate charged during the introductory
period. This introductory rate is usually significantly below the
fully indexed rate. The fully indexed rate is calculated using an
index rate plus a margin. Once the introductory period ends,
the contractual interest rate charged on the loan increases to
the fully indexed rate and adjusts monthly to reflect
movements in the index. The minimum payment is typically
insufficient to cover interest accrued in the prior month, and
any unpaid interest is deferred and added to the principal
balance of the loan. Option ARM loans are subject to payment
recast, which converts the loan to a variable-rate fully
amortizing loan upon meeting specified loan balance and
anniversary date triggers.
Prime
Prime mortgage loans are made to borrowers with good credit
records who meet specific underwriting requirements,
including prescriptive requirements related to income and
overall debt levels. New prime mortgage borrowers provide
full documentation and generally have reliable payment
histories.
Subprime
Subprime loans are loans that, prior to mid-2008, were offered
to certain customers with one or more high risk characteristics,
including but not limited to: (i) unreliable or poor payment
histories; (ii) a high LTV ratio of greater than 80% (without
borrower-paid mortgage insurance); (iii) a high debt-to-income
ratio; (iv) an occupancy type for the loan is other than the
borrower’s primary residence; or (v) a history of delinquencies
or late payments on the loan.
MSA: Metropolitan statistical areas
MSR: Mortgage servicing rights
Multi-asset: Any fund or account that allocates assets under
management to more than one asset class.
NA: Data is not applicable or available for the period
presented.
NAV: Net Asset Value Net Capital Rule: Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934.
Net charge-off/(recovery) rate: Represents net charge-
offs/(recoveries) (annualized) divided by average retained
loans for the reporting period.
Net interchange income includes the following components:
•Interchange income: Fees earned by credit and debit card
issuers on sales transactions.
•Reward costs: The cost to the Firm for points earned by
cardholders enrolled in credit card rewards programs.
•Partner payments: Payments to co-brand credit card
partners based on the cost of loyalty program rewards earned
by cardholders on credit card transactions.
Net mortgage servicing revenue: Includes operating revenue
earned from servicing third-party mortgage loans, which is
recognized over the period in which the service is provided;
changes in the fair value of MSRs; the impact of risk
management activities associated with MSRs; and gains and
losses on securitization of excess mortgage servicing. Net
mortgage servicing revenue also includes gains and losses on
sales and lower of cost or fair value adjustments of certain
repurchased loans insured by U.S. government agencies.
Net production revenue: Includes fees and income
recognized as earned on mortgage loans originated with the
intent to sell, and the impact of risk management activities
associated with the mortgage pipeline and warehouse loans.
Net production revenue also includes gains and losses on sales
and lower of cost or fair value adjustments on mortgage loans
held-for-sale (excluding certain repurchased loans insured by
U.S. government agencies), and changes in the fair value of
financial instruments measured under the fair value option.
Net revenue rate: Represents Card Services net revenue
(annualized) expressed as a percentage of average loans for the
period.
Net yield on interest-earning assets: The average rate for
interest-earning assets less the average rate paid for all sources
of funds.
NM: Not meaningful
NOL: Net operating loss
Nonaccrual loans: Loans for which interest income is not
recognized on an accrual basis. Loans (other than credit card
loans and certain consumer loans insured by U.S. government
agencies) are placed on nonaccrual status when full payment of
principal and interest is not expected, regardless of
delinquency status, or when principal and interest have been in
default for a period of 90 days or more unless the loan is both
well-secured and in the process of collection. Collateral-
dependent loans are typically maintained on nonaccrual status.
296 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Glossary of Terms and Acronyms
Nonperforming assets: Nonperforming assets include
nonaccrual loans, nonperforming derivatives and certain assets
acquired in loan satisfaction, predominantly real estate owned
and other commercial and personal property.
NOW: Negotiable Order of Withdrawal
OAS: Option-adjusted spread
OCC: Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
OCI: Other comprehensive income/(loss)
OPEB: Other postretirement employee benefit
OTTI: Other-than-temporary impairment
Over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives: Derivative contracts
that are negotiated, executed and settled bilaterally between
two derivative counterparties, where one or both counterparties
is a derivatives dealer.
Over-the-counter cleared (“OTC-cleared”) derivatives:
Derivative contracts that are negotiated and executed
bilaterally, but subsequently settled via a central clearing
house, such that each derivative counterparty is only exposed
to the default of that clearing house.
Overhead ratio: Noninterest expense as a percentage of total
net revenue.
Parent Company: JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Participating securities: Represents unvested share-based
compensation awards containing nonforfeitable rights to
dividends or dividend equivalents (collectively, “dividends”),
which are included in the earnings per share calculation using
the two-class method. JPMorgan Chase grants RSUs to certain
employees under its share-based compensation programs,
which entitle the recipients to receive nonforfeitable dividends
during the vesting period on a basis equivalent to the dividends
paid to holders of common stock. These unvested awards meet
the definition of participating securities. Under the two-class
method, all earnings (distributed and undistributed) are
allocated to each class of common stock and participating
securities, based on their respective rights to receive dividends.
PCA: Prompt corrective action
PCI: “Purchased credit-impaired” loans represents certain
loans that were acquired and deemed to be credit-impaired on
the acquisition date in accordance with the guidance of the
FASB. The guidance allows purchasers to aggregate credit-
impaired loans acquired in the same fiscal quarter into one or
more pools, provided that the loans have common risk
characteristics(e.g., product type, LTV ratios, FICO scores,
past due status, geographic location). A pool is then accounted
for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and an
aggregate expectation of cash flows.
PD: Probability of default
PRA: Prudential Regulation Authority Pre-provision profit/(loss): Represents total net revenue less
noninterest expense. The Firm believes that this financial
measure is useful in assessing the ability of a lending
institution to generate income in excess of its provision for
credit losses.
Pretax margin: Represents income before income tax expense
divided by total net revenue, which is, in management’s view,
a comprehensive measure of pretax performance derived by
measuring earnings after all costs are taken into consideration.
It is one basis upon which management evaluates the
performance of AWM against the performance of their
respective competitors.
Principal transactions revenue: Principal transactions
revenue is driven by many factors, including:
•the bid-offer spread, which is the difference between the
price at which a market participant is willing and able to sell
an instrument to the Firm and the price at which another
market participant is willing and able to buy it from the
Firm, and vice versa; and
•realized and unrealized gains and losses on financial
instruments and commodities transactions, including those
accounted for under the fair value option, primarily used in
client-driven market-making activities, and on private equity
investments.
–Realized gains and losses result from the sale of
instruments, closing out or termination of transactions, or
interim cash payments.
–Unrealized gains and losses result from changes in
valuation.
In connection with its client-driven market-making activities,
the Firm transacts in debt and equity instruments, derivatives
and commodities, including physical commodities inventories
and financial instruments that reference commodities.
Principal transactions revenue also includes realized and
unrealized gains and losses related to:
•derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting
relationships, primarily fair value hedges of commodity and
foreign exchange risk;
•derivatives used for specific risk management purposes,
primarily to mitigate credit risk and foreign exchange risk.
PSUs: Performance share units
REIT: “Real estate investment trust”: A special purpose
investment vehicle that provides investors with the ability to
participate directly in the ownership or financing of real-estate
related assets by pooling their capital to purchase and manage
income property (i.e., equity REIT) and/or mortgage loans
(i.e., mortgage REIT). REITs can be publicly or privately held
and they also qualify for certain favorable tax considerations.
Regulatory VaR: Daily aggregated VaR calculated in
accordance with regulatory rules.
REO: Real estate owned
Reported basis: Financial statements prepared under U.S.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 297
Glossary of Terms and Acronyms
GAAP, which excludes the impact of taxable-equivalent
adjustments.
Retained loans: Loans that are held-for-investment (i.e.,
excludes loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value).
Revenue wallet: Proportion of fee revenue based on estimates
of investment banking fees generated across the industry (i.e.,
the revenue wallet) from investment banking transactions in
M&A, equity and debt underwriting, and loan syndications.
Source: Dealogic, a third-party provider of investment banking
competitive analysis and volume-based league tables for the
above noted industry products.
RHS: Rural Housing Service of the U.S. Department of
Agriculture
Risk-rated portfolio: Credit loss estimates are based on
estimates of the probability of default (“PD”) and loss severity
given a default. The probability of default is the likelihood that
a borrower will default on its obligation; the loss given default
(“LGD”) is the estimated loss on the loan that would be
realized upon the default and takes into consideration collateral
and structural support for each credit facility.
ROA: Return on assets
ROE: Return on equity
ROTCE: Return on tangible common equity
ROU assets: Right-of-use assets
RSU(s): Restricted stock units
RWA: “Risk-weighted assets”: Basel III establishes two
comprehensive approaches for calculating RWA (a
Standardized approach and an Advanced approach) which
include capital requirements for credit risk, market risk, and in
the case of Basel III Advanced, also operational risk. Key
differences in the calculation of credit risk RWA between the
Standardized and Advanced approaches are that for Basel III
Advanced, credit risk RWA is based on risk-sensitive
approaches which largely rely on the use of internal credit
models and parameters, whereas for Basel III Standardized,
credit risk RWA is generally based on supervisory risk-
weightings which vary primarily by counterparty type and
asset class. Market risk RWA is calculated on a generally
consistent basis between Basel III Standardized and Basel III
Advanced.
S&P: Standard and Poor’s 500 Index
SAR(s): Stock appreciation rights
Scored portfolio: The scored portfolio predominantly includes
residential real estate loans, credit card loans and certain auto
and business banking loans where credit loss estimates are
based on statistical analysis of credit losses over discrete
periods of time. The statistical analysis uses portfolio
modeling, credit scoring and decision-support tools.
SEC: Securities and Exchange Commission Securities financing agreements: Include resale, repurchase,
securities borrowed and securities loaned agreements
Seed capital: Initial JPMorgan capital invested in products,
such as mutual funds, with the intention of ensuring the fund is
of sufficient size to represent a viable offering to clients,
enabling pricing of its shares, and allowing the manager to
develop a track record. After these goals are achieved, the
intent is to remove the Firm’s capital from the investment.
Shelf Deals: Shelf offerings are SEC provisions that allow
issuers to register for new securities without selling the entire
issuance at once. Since these issuances are filed with the SEC
but are not yet priced in the market, they are not included in
the league tables until the actual securities are issued.
Single-name: Single reference-entities
SLR: Supplementary leverage ratio
SMBS: Stripped mortgage-backed securities
SOFR: Secured Overnight Financing Rate
SPEs: Special purpose entities
Structural interest rate risk: Represents interest rate risk of
the non-trading assets and liabilities of the Firm.
Structured notes: Structured notes are financial instruments
whose cash flows are linked to the movement in one or more
indexes, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, commodities
prices, prepayment rates, or other market variables. The notes
typically contain embedded (but not separable or detachable)
derivatives. Contractual cash flows for principal, interest, or
both can vary in amount and timing throughout the life of the
note based on non-traditional indexes or non-traditional uses of
traditional interest rates or indexes.
Taxable-equivalent basis: In presenting results on a managed
basis, the total net revenue for each of the business segments
and the Firm is presented on a tax-equivalent basis.
Accordingly, revenue from investments that receive tax credits
and tax-exempt securities is presented in managed basis results
on a level comparable to taxable investments and securities;
the corresponding income tax impact related to tax-exempt
items is recorded within income tax expense.
TBVPS: Tangible book value per share
TCE: Tangible common equity
TDR: “Troubled debt restructuring” is deemed to occur
when the Firm modifies the original terms of a loan agreement
by granting a concession to a borrower that is experiencing
financial difficulty.
TLAC: Total loss-absorbing capacity
U.K.: United Kingdom
Unaudited: Financial statements and information that have
298 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K
Glossary of Terms and Acronyms
not been subjected to auditing procedures sufficient to permit
an independent certified public accountant to express an
opinion.
U.S.: United States of America
U.S. government agencies: U.S. government agencies
include, but are not limited to, agencies such as Ginnie Mae
and FHA, and do not include Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
which are U.S. government-sponsored enterprises (“U.S.
GSEs”). In general, obligations of U.S. government agencies
are fully and explicitly guaranteed as to the timely payment of
principal and interest by the full faith and credit of the U.S.
government in the event of a default.
U.S. GAAP: Accounting principles generally accepted in the
U.S.
U.S. GSE(s): “U.S. government-sponsored enterprises” are
quasi-governmental, privately-held entities established or
chartered by the U.S. government to serve public purposes as
specified by the U.S. Congress to improve the flow of credit to
specific sectors of the economy and provide certain essential
services to the public. U.S. GSEs include Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, but do not include Ginnie Mae or FHA. U.S.
GSE obligations are not explicitly guaranteed as to the timely
payment of principal and interest by the full faith and credit of
the U.S. government.
U.S. LCR: Liquidity coverage ratio under the final U.S. rule.
U.S. Treasury: U.S. Department of the Treasury
VA: U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs
VaR: “Value-at-risk” is a measure of the dollar amount of
potential loss from adverse market moves in an ordinary
market environment.
VCG: Valuation Control Group
VGF: Valuation Governance Forum
VIEs: Variable interest entities
Warehouse loans: Consist of prime mortgages originated with
the intent to sell that are accounted for at fair value and
classified as trading assets.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2019 Form 10-K 299
Investment securities portfolio
Refer to Note 10 for information regarding the securities portfolio as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, and for the years ended
December 31, 2019 and 2018.
 2017
(Unaudited)
December 31, (in millions)Amortized
costFair
value
Available-for-sale securities  
Mortgage-backed securities: U.S. GSEs and government agencies $ 69,879 $ 70,280
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 22,510 22,745
All other AFS securities 106,352 109,200
Total available-for-sale securities $ 198,741 $ 202,225
Held-to-maturity securities  
Mortgage-backed securities: U.S. GSEs and government agencies 27,577 28,095
All other HTM securities 20,156 20,557
Total held-to-maturity securities $ 47,733 $ 48,652
Total investment securities $ 246,474 $ 250,877
300  
Loan portfolio
The table below presents loans by portfolio segment and loan class that are presented in Credit and Investment Risk Management
on page 102, pages 103–107 and page 108, and in Note 12.
(Unaudited)
December 31, (in millions)20192018 2017 2016 2015
U.S. consumer, excluding credit card loans   
Residential mortgage $ 215,025$ 246,244$ 236,157$ 215,178$ 192,714
Home equity 31,294 37,303 44,249 51,965 60,548
Auto 61,522 63,573 66,242 65,814 60,255
Other 27,199 26,612 26,033 31,687 31,304
Total U.S. consumer, excluding credit card loans 335,040 373,732 372,681 364,644 344,821
Credit card Loans   
U.S. credit card loans 168,787 156,312 149,107 141,447 131,132
Non-U.S. credit card loans 137 320 404 369 331
Total credit card loans 168,924 156,632 149,511 141,816 131,463
Total consumer loans 503,964 530,364 522,192 506,460 476,284
U.S. wholesale loans   
Commercial and industrial 90,706 111,208 93,522 91,393 83,739
Real estate 117,949 115,401 112,562 104,268 90,836
Financial institutions 39,925 29,165 23,819 20,499 12,708
Governments & Agencies 10,510 11,037 12,603 12,655 9,838
Other 93,495 83,386 69,602 66,363 67,925
Total U.S. wholesale loans 352,585 350,197 312,108 295,178 265,046
Non-U.S. wholesale loans   
Commercial and industrial 29,423 30,450 29,233 31,340 30,385
Real estate 4,601 3,397 3,302 3,975 4,577
Financial institutions 16,894 18,563 16,845 15,196 17,188
Governments & Agencies 2,321 3,150 2,906 3,726 1,788
Other 49,981 48,433 44,111 38,890 42,031
Total non-U.S. wholesale loans 103,220 103,993 96,397 93,127 95,969
Total wholesale loans   
Commercial and industrial 120,129 141,658 122,755 122,733 114,124
Real estate 122,550 118,798 115,864 108,243 95,413
Financial institutions 56,819 47,728 40,664 35,695 29,896
Governments & Agencies 12,831 14,187 15,509 16,381 11,626
Other 143,476 131,819 113,713 105,253 109,956
Total wholesale loans 455,805 454,190 408,505 388,305 361,015
Total loans(a) $ 959,769$ 984,554$ 930,697$ 894,765$ 837,299
Memo:   
Loans held-for-sale $ 7,064$ 11,988$ 3,351$ 2,628$ 1,646
Loans at fair value 7,104 3,151 2,508 2,230 2,861
Total loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value $ 14,168$ 15,139$ 5,859$ 4,858$ 4,507
(a)Loans (other than purchased credit-impaired loans and those for which the fair value option have been elected) are presented net of unamortized discounts and
premiums and net deferred loan fees or costs. These amounts were not material as of December 31, 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016 and 2015.
 301
Maturities and sensitivity to changes in interest rates
The table below sets forth wholesale loan maturities and the distribution between fixed and floating interest rates based on the
stated terms of the loan agreements. The table below also presents loans by loan class that are presented in Wholesale credit
portfolio on pages 108–115 and Note 12. The table does not include the impact of derivative instruments.
(Unaudited)
December 31, 2019
(in millions)Within
1 year (a) 1-5
yearsAfter 5
years Total
U.S.     
Commercial and industrial $ 15,300 $ 66,970 $ 8,436 $ 90,706
Real estate 5,922 25,976 86,051 117,949
Financial institutions 21,185 18,282 458 39,925
Governments & Agencies 1,106 3,541 5,863 10,510
Other 32,433 58,615 2,447 93,495
Total U.S. 75,946 173,384 103,255 352,585
Non-U.S.     
Commercial and industrial 10,537 15,991 2,895 29,423
Real estate 1,008 3,497 96 4,601
Financial institutions 9,367 7,503 24 16,894
Governments & Agencies 278 1,336 707 2,321
Other 33,194 15,411 1,376 49,981
Total non-U.S. 54,384 43,738 5,098 103,220
Total wholesale loans $130,330 $217,122 $108,353 $455,805
Loans at fixed interest rates  $ 15,090 $ 11,393 
Loans at variable interest rates  202,032 96,960 
Total wholesale loans  $217,122 $108,353 
(a)Includes demand loans and overdrafts.
Risk elements
The following tables set forth nonperforming assets, contractually past-due assets, and accruing restructured loans by portfolio
segment and loan class that are presented in Credit and Investment Risk Management on page 102, page 104 and page 108.
(Unaudited)
December 31, (in millions) 2019  2018  2017 2016  2015
Nonperforming assets      
U.S. nonaccrual loans:      
Consumer, excluding credit card loans $ 3,142 $ 3,461 $ 4,209 $ 4,820 $ 5,413
Credit card loans — — — — —
Total U.S. nonaccrual consumer loans 3,142 3,461 4,209 4,820 5,413
Wholesale:      
Commercial and industrial 636 624 703 1,145 315
Real estate 53 212 95 148 175
Financial institutions 3 4 2 4 4
Governments & Agencies — — — — —
Other 34 89 137 198 86
Total U.S. wholesale nonaccrual loans 726 929 937 1,495 580
Total U.S. nonaccrual loans 3,868 4,390 5,146 6,315 5,993
Non-U.S. nonaccrual loans:      
Consumer, excluding credit card loans — — — — —
Credit card loans — — — — —
Total non-U.S. nonaccrual consumer loans — — — — —
Wholesale:      
Commercial and industrial 207 358 654 454 314
Real estate — 12 41 52 63
Financial institutions — — — 5 6
Governments & Agencies — — — — —
Other 5 71 102 57 53
Total non-U.S. wholesale nonaccrual loans 212 441 797 568 436
Total non-U.S. nonaccrual loans 212 441 797 568 436
Total nonaccrual loans 4,080 4,831 5,943 6,883 6,429
Derivative receivables 30 60 130 223 204
Assets acquired in loan satisfactions 387 299 353 429 401
Nonperforming assets $ 4,497 $ 5,190 $ 6,426 $ 7,535 $ 7,034
Memo:      
Loans held-for-sale $ 7 $ — $ — $ 162 $ 101
Loans at fair value 90 220 — — 25
Total loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value $ 97 $ 220 $ — $ 162 $ 126
302  
(Unaudited)
December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018  2017 2016 2015
Contractually past-due loans(a)     
U.S. loans:     
Consumer, excluding credit card loans(b) $ — $ — $ — $ — $ —
Credit card loans 1,605 1,442 1,378 1,143 944
Total U.S. consumer loans 1,605 1,442 1,378 1,143 944
Wholesale:     
Commercial and industrial 34 167 107 86 6
Real estate 4 3 12 2 15
Financial institutions 2 8 14 12 1
Governments & Agencies — 4 4 4 6
Other 1 2 2 19 28
Total U.S. wholesale loans 41 184 139 123 56
Total U.S. loans 1,646 1,626 1,517 1,266 1,000
Non-U.S. loans:     
Consumer, excluding credit card loans — — — — —
Credit card loans 2 3 1 2 —
Total non-U.S. consumer loans 2 3 1 2 —
Wholesale:       
Commercial and industrial 1 1 1 — 1
Real estate — — — — —
Financial institutions — 2 1 9 10
Governments & Agencies — — — — —
Other — 1 — — —
Total non-U.S. wholesale loans 1 4 2 9 11
Total non-U.S. loans 3 7 3 11 11
Total contractually past due loans $ 1,649 $ 1,633 $ 1,520 $ 1,277 $ 1,011
(a)Represents accruing loans past-due 90 days or more as to principal and interest, which are not characterized as nonaccrual loans. Excludes PCI loans which are accounted for on a pool
basis. Since each pool is accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows, the past-due status of the pools, or that of
individual loans within the pools, is not meaningful. The Firm is recognizing interest income on each pool of loans as each of the pools is performing.
(b)At December 31, 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016 and 2015, excluded mortgage loans 90 or more days past due and insured by U.S. government agencies of $193 million, $1.6 billion, $2.7
billion, $2.7 billion and $2.8 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, student loans insured by U.S. government agencies under the Federal Family Education Loan
Program of $263 million and $290 million, respectively, were also excluded prior to sale of the student loan portfolio in 2017. These amounts have been excluded from the nonaccrual
loans based upon the government guarantee.
(Unaudited)
December 31, (in millions) 2019  2018  2017 2016  2015
Accruing restructured loans(a)      
U.S.:      
Consumer, excluding credit card loans $ 3,616 $ 4,185 $ 4,993 $ 5,561 $ 5,980
Credit card loans(b) 1,452 1,319 1,215 1,240 1,465
Total U.S. consumer loans 5,068 5,504 6,208 6,801 7,445
Wholesale:      
Commercial and industrial 32 50 32 34 12
Real estate 1 3 5 11 28
Financial institutions — — 79 — —
Other 1 5 — 4 —
Total U.S. wholesale loans 34 58 116 49 40
Total U.S. 5,102 5,562 6,324 6,850 7,485
Non-U.S.:      
Consumer, excluding credit card loans — — — — —
Credit card loans(b) — — — — —
Total non-U.S. consumer loans — — — — —
Wholesale:      
Commercial and industrial 32 45 10 17 —
Real estate — — — — —
Financial institutions — — 11 — —
Other 3 — — — —
Total non-U.S. wholesale loans 35 45 21 17 —
Total non-U.S. 35 45 21 17 —
Total accruing restructured notes $ 5,137 $ 5,607 $ 6,345 $ 6,867 $ 7,485
(a)Represents performing loans modified in TDRs in which an economic concession was granted by the Firm and the borrower has demonstrated its ability to repay the loans according to
the terms of the restructuring. As defined in U.S. GAAP, concessions include the reduction of interest rates or the deferral of interest or principal payments, resulting from deterioration
in the borrowers’ financial condition. Excludes nonaccrual assets and contractually past-due assets, which are included in the sections above.
(b)Includes credit card loans that have been modified in a TDR.
Refer to Credit and Investment Risk Management on pages 100–118, and Note 12 for a discussion of nonaccrual loans, past-due
loan accounting policies, and accruing restructured loans.
 303
Impact of nonaccrual loans and accruing restructured loans on interest income
The negative impact on interest income from nonaccrual loans represents the difference between the amount of interest income that
would have been recorded on such nonaccrual loans according to their original contractual terms had they been performing and the
amount of interest that actually was recognized on a cash basis. The negative impact on interest income from accruing restructured
loans represents the difference between the amount of interest income that would have been recorded on such loans according to
their original contractual terms and the amount of interest that actually was recognized under the modified terms. The following
table sets forth this data for the years specified. The change in forgone interest income from 2017 through 2019 was primarily
driven by the change in the levels of nonaccrual loans.
(Unaudited)
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Nonaccrual loans  
U.S.:  
Consumer, excluding credit card:  
Gross amount of interest that would have been recorded at the original terms $ 266$ 318$ 367
Interest that was recognized in income (176) (187) (175)
Total U.S. consumer, excluding credit card 90 131 192
Credit card:  
Gross amount of interest that would have been recorded at the original terms — — —
Interest that was recognized in income — — —
Total U.S. credit card — — —
Total U.S. consumer 90 131 192
Wholesale:  
Gross amount of interest that would have been recorded at the original terms 53 51 46
Interest that was recognized in income (24) (16) (30)
Total U.S. wholesale 29 35 16
Negative impact — U.S. 119 166 208
Non-U.S.:  
Consumer, excluding credit card:  
Gross amount of interest that would have been recorded at the original terms — — —
Interest that was recognized in income — — —
Total non-U.S. consumer, excluding credit card — — —
Credit card:  
Gross amount of interest that would have been recorded at the original terms — — —
Interest that was recognized in income — — —
Total non-U.S. credit card — — —
Total non-U.S. consumer — — —
Wholesale:  
Gross amount of interest that would have been recorded at the original terms 12 13 24
Interest that was recognized in income (5) (3) (12)
Total non-U.S. wholesale 7 10 12
Negative impact — non-U.S. 7 10 12
Total negative impact on interest income $ 126$ 176$ 220
304  
(Unaudited)
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Accruing restructured loans  
U.S.:  
Consumer, excluding credit card:  
Gross amount of interest that would have been recorded at the original terms $ 283$ 329$ 401
Interest that was recognized in income (194) (217) (245)
Total U.S. consumer, excluding credit card 89 112 156
Credit card:  
Gross amount of interest that would have been recorded at the original terms 265 227 202
Interest that was recognized in income (72) (65) (59)
Total U.S. credit card 193 162 143
Total U.S. consumer 282 274 299
Wholesale:  
Gross amount of interest that would have been recorded at the original terms 1 4 13
Interest that was recognized in income (1) (4) (13)
Total U.S. wholesale — — —
Negative impact — U.S. 282 274 299
Non-U.S.:  
Consumer, excluding credit card:  
Gross amount of interest that would have been recorded at the original terms — — —
Interest that was recognized in income — — —
Total non-U.S. consumer, excluding credit card — — —
Credit card:  
Gross amount of interest that would have been recorded at the original terms — — —
Interest that was recognized in income — — —
Total non-U.S. credit card — — —
Total non-U.S. consumer — — —
Wholesale:  
Gross amount of interest that would have been recorded at the original terms — — —
Interest that was recognized in income — — —
Total non-U.S. wholesale — — —
Negative impact — non-U.S. — — —
Total negative impact on interest income $ 282$ 274$ 299
 305
Cross-border outstandings
Cross-border disclosure is based on the FFIEC guidelines
governing the determination of cross-border risk.
The reporting of country exposure under the FFIEC bank
regulatory requirements provides information on the
distribution, by country and sector, of claims on, and liabilities
to, U.S. and foreign residents held by U.S. banks and bank
holding companies and is used by the regulatory agencies to
determine the presence of credit and related risks, including transfer and country risk. Country location
under the FFIEC bank regulatory reporting is based on where
the entity or counterparty is legally established.
JPMorgan Chase’s total cross-border exposures may fluctuate
from period to period due to client activity and market flows.
Refer to Country Risk Management on pages 127–128 for a
further discussion of JPMorgan Chase’s country risk exposure.
The following table lists all countries in which JPMorgan Chase’s cross-border outstandings exceed 0.75% of consolidated assets as
of the dates specified.
Cross-border outstandings exceeding 0.75% of total assets
(Unaudited)
(in millions) December 31, Governments Banks Other (a)Net local
country
assets  Total
cross-border
outstandings (c) Commitments (d)Total exposur e
Germany 2019 $ 9,757 $ 4,175 $ 8,709 $ 12,143  $ 34,784  $ 54,817 $ 89,601
 2018 12,793 7,769 15,393 30,054 (b) 66,009 (b) 67,973 133,982 (b) 
 2017 17,751 5,357 12,320 20,117 55,545  65,333 120,878
Cayman Islands 2019 $ 15 $ 367 $ 89,124 $ — $ 89,506  $ 114,398 $ 203,904
 2018 1 308 105,857 20 106,186  45,073 151,259
 2017 5 462 61,268 58 61,793  12,361 74,154
Japan 2019 $ 191 $ 4,863 $ 3,495 $ 45,654  $ 54,203  $ 42,049 $ 96,252
 2018 282 9,803 4,167 41,948 (b) 56,200 (b) 51,901 108,101 (b) 
 2017 1,082 17,159 12,239 25,229  55,709  52,928 108,637
France 2019 $ 9,445 $ 5,294 $ 12,746 $ 2,697  $ 30,182  $ 107,178 $ 137,360
 2018 12,556 3,499 21,571 2,771  40,397  105,845 146,242
 2017 12,975 7,083 15,329 2,471  37,858  83,572 121,430
Italy 2019 $ 10,567 $ 2,192 $ 6,095 $ 881 $ 19,735  $ 49,456 $ 69,191
 2018 9,401 4,098 5,145 1,375  20,019  61,326 81,345
 2017 11,516 4,524 4,499 611 21,150  61,005 82,155
Ireland 2019 $ 381 $ 319 $ 18,061 $ — $ 18,761  $ 9,520 $ 28,281
 2018 185 45 19,439 — 19,669  5,585 25,254
 2017 630 318 19,630 — 20,578  5,728 26,306
(a)Consists primarily of non-banking financial institutions.
(b)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
(c)Outstandings include loans and accrued interest receivable, interest-bearing deposits with banks, acceptances, resale agreements, other monetary assets, cross-
border trading debt and equity instruments, fair value of foreign exchange and derivative contracts, and local country assets, net of local country liabilities. The
amounts associated with foreign exchange and derivative contracts are presented after taking into account the impact of legally enforceable master netting
agreements.
(d)Commitments include outstanding letters of credit, undrawn commitments to extend credit, and the gross notional value of credit derivatives where JPMorgan
Chase is a protection seller.
306  
The following tables summarize the changes in the allowance for loan losses and the allowance for lending-related commitments, as well
as loan loss analysis during the periods indicated. Refer to Allowance for credit losses on pages 116–117, and Note 13 for a further
discussion.
Allowance for loan losses    
(Unaudited)
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Balance at beginning of year $ 13,445$ 13,604$ 13,776$ 13,555$ 14,185
U.S. charge-offs    
U.S. consumer, excluding credit card 963 1,025 1,779 1,500 1,658
U.S. credit card 5,436 5,011 4,521 3,799 3,475
Total U.S. consumer charge-offs 6,399 6,036 6,300 5,299 5,133
U.S. wholesale:    
Commercial and industrial 273 161 87 240 63
Real estate 12 3 3 7 6
Financial institutions — — — — 5
Governments & Agencies — — 5 — —
Other 16 97 19 13 6
Total U.S. wholesale charge-offs 301 261 114 260 80
Total U.S. charge-offs 6,700 6,297 6,414 5,559 5,213
Non-U.S. charge-offs    
Non-U.S. consumer, excluding credit card — — — — —
Non-U.S. credit card — — — — 13
Total non-U.S. consumer charge-offs — — — — 13
Non-U.S. wholesale:    
Commercial and industrial 75 51 89 134 5
Real estate — — — 1 —
Financial institutions — — 7 1 —
Governments & Agencies — — — — —
Other 35 1 2 2 10
Total non-U.S. wholesale charge-offs 110 52 98 138 15
Total non-U.S. charge-offs 110 52 98 138 28
Total charge-offs 6,810 6,349 6,512 5,697 5,241
U.S. recoveries    
U.S. consumer, excluding credit card (551) (842) (634) (591) (704)
U.S. credit card (588) (493) (398) (357) (364)
Total U.S. consumer recoveries (1,139) (1,335) (1,032) (948) (1,068)
U.S. wholesale:    
Commercial and industrial (15) (45) (55) (10) (32)
Real estate (1) (23) (6) (15) (20)
Financial institutions — — — (3) (8)
Governments & Agencies — — — (1) (8)
Other (18) (44) (15) (3) (3)
Total U.S. wholesale recoveries (34) (112) (76) (32) (71)
Total U.S. recoveries (1,173) (1,447) (1,108) (980) (1,139)
Non-U.S. recoveries    
Non-U.S. consumer, excluding credit card — — — — —
Non-U.S. credit card — — — — (2)
Total non-U.S. consumer recoveries — — — — (2)
Non-U.S. wholesale:    
Commercial and industrial (4) (2) (4) (18) (10)
Real estate — — (1) — —
Financial institutions — — (1) — (2)
Governments & Agencies — — — — —
Other (4) (44) (11) (7) (2)
Total non-U.S. wholesale recoveries (8) (46) (17) (25) (14)
Total non-U.S. recoveries (8) (46) (17) (25) (16)
Total recoveries (1,181) (1,493) (1,125) (1,005) (1,155)
Net charge-offs 5,629 4,856 5,387 4,692 4,086
Write-offs of PCI loans(a) 151 187 86 156 208
Provision for loan losses 5,449 4,885 5,300 5,080 3,663
Other 9 (1) 1 (11) 1
Balance at year-end $ 13,123$ 13,445$ 13,604$ 13,776$ 13,555
(a)Write-of fs of PCI loans are recorded against the allowance for loan losses when actual losses for a pool exceed estimated losses that were recorded as purchase accounting
adjustments at the time of acquisition. A write-of f of a PCI loan is recognized when the underlying loan is removed from a pool.
 307
Summary of loan and lending-r elated commitments loss experience
Allowance for lending-related commitments
(Unaudited)
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Balance at beginning of year $ 1,055$ 1,068$ 1,078$ 786$ 622
Provision for lending-related commitments 136 (14) (10) 281 164
Other — 1 — 11 —
Balance at year-end $ 1,191$ 1,055$ 1,068$ 1,078$ 786
Loan loss analysis    
(Unaudited)
As of or for the year ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Balances    
Loans – average $ 954,539 $ 944,885$ 906,397$ 866,378$ 787,318
Loans – year-end 959,769 984,554 930,697 894,765 837,299
Net charge-offs 5,629 4,856 5,387 4,692 4,086
Allowance for loan losses:    
U.S. $ 12,303 $ 12,692$ 12,552$ 12,738$ 12,704
Non-U.S. 820 753 1,052 1,038 851
Total allowance for loan losses $ 13,123 $ 13,445$ 13,604$ 13,776$ 13,555
Nonaccrual loans $ 4,080 $ 4,831$ 5,943$ 6,883$ 6,429
Ratios    
Net charge-offs to:    
Loans retained – average 0.60% 0.52% 0.60% 0.54% 0.52%
Allowance for loan losses 42.89 36.12 39.60 34.06 30.14
Allowance for loan losses to:    
Loans retained – year-end(a) 1.39 1.39 1.47 1.55 1.63
Nonaccrual loans retained 329 292 229 205 215
(a)The allowance for loan losses as a percentage of retained loans declined from 2015 to 2019, due to overall improvement in credit quality. Refer to Provision for
credit losses on page 50 for a more detailed discussion of the 2018 through 2019 provision for credit losses.
308  
Deposits
The following table provides a summary of the average balances and average interest rates of JPMorgan Chase’s various deposits
for the years indicated.
(Unaudited)
Year ended December 31, Average balances  Average interest rates
(in millions, except interest
rates) 2019 2018 2017  20192018
2017
U.S. offices    
Noninterest-bearing(a) $ 386,116 $ 391,325 $ 393,877 —% —% —%
Interest-bearing    
Demand(b) 195,350 177,403 162,985 1.42 1.09 0.50
Savings(c) 602,728 585,885 559,654 0.46 0.32 0.15
Time(a) 52,415 39,498 46,957 2.56 1.94 1.16
Total interest-bearing
deposits(a) 850,493 802,786 769,596 0.81 0.57 0.29
Total deposits in U.S. offices 1,236,609 1,194,111 1,163,473 0.56 0.38 0.19
Non-U.S. offices    
Noninterest-bearing(a) 21,103 20,099 17,325 — — —
Interest-bearing    
Demand 217,979 210,978 213,733 0.59 0.45 0.18
Savings — — — NM NM NM
Time(a) 47,376 31,273 22,855 1.64 1.48 1.11
Total interest-bearing
deposits(a) 265,355 242,251 236,588 0.78 0.58 0.27
Total deposits in non-U.S.
offices 286,458 262,350 253,913 0.72 0.54 0.25
Total deposits $1,523,067 $ 1,456,461 $ 1,417,386 0.59% 0.41% 0.20%
(a)In the second quarter of 2019, the Firm reclassified balances related to certain structured notes from interest-bearing to noninterest-bearing deposits as the
associated returns are recorded in principal transactions revenue and not in net interest income. This change was applied retrospectively and, accordingly, prior
period amounts were revised to conform with the current presentation.
(b)Includes Negotiable Order of Withdrawal (“NOW”) accounts, and certain trust accounts.
(c)Includes Money Market Deposit Accounts (“MMDAs”).
At December 31, 2019, other U.S. time deposits in denominations of $100,000 or more totaled $15.0 billion, substantially all of
which mature in three months or less. In addition, the table below presents the maturities for U.S. time certificates of deposit in
denominations of $100,000 or more.
(Unaudited)
By remaining maturity at
December 31, 2019
(in millions)Three months
or less  Over three
months
but within six
months  Over six months
 but within 12
months  Over 12 months Total
U.S. time certificates of deposit ($100,000 or more) $ 15,759 $ 15,249 $ 7,252 $ 1,294 $ 39,554
 309
Short-term and other  borr owed funds
The following table provides a summary of JPMorgan Chase’s short-term and other borrowed funds for the years indicated.
(Unaudited)
As of or for the year ended December 31, (in millions, except rates) 2019 2018  2017
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements:     
Balance at year-end $ 183,675 $ 182,320 $ 158,916
Average daily balance during the year 227,994 189,282 187,386
Maximum month-end balance 251,829 201,340 205,286
Weighted-average rate at December 31 1.77% 2.18% 1.03%
Weighted-average rate during the year 2.03 1.62 0.86
     
Commercial paper:     
Balance at year-end $ 14,754 $ 30,059 $ 24,186
Average daily balance during the year 22,977 27,834 19,920
Maximum month-end balance 30,007 30,470 24,934
Weighted-average rate at December 31 2.16% 2.71% 1.59%
Weighted-average rate during the year 2.66 2.27 1.39
     
Other borrowed funds:(a)     
Balance at year-end $ 73,312 $ 101,513 $ 87,652
Average daily balance during the year 106,348 108,436 96,331
Maximum month-end balance 128,488 125,544 107,157
Weighted-average rate at December 31 1.85% 2.23% 2.09%
Weighted-average rate during the year 2.05 2.06 1.98
     
Short-term beneficial interests:(b)     
Commercial paper and other borrowed funds:     
Balance at year-end $ 11,103 $ 6,527 $ 4,310
Average daily balance during the year 12,511 4,756 5,327
Maximum month-end balance 16,016 6,527 7,573
Weighted-average rate at December 31 1.92% 2.53% 1.50%
Weighted-average rate during the year 2.39 2.10 1.07
(a)Includes interest-bearing securities sold but not yet purchased of $47.1 billion, $62.3 billion and $60.0 billion at December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017,
respectively.
(b)Included on the Consolidated balance sheets in beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs.
Federal funds purchased represent overnight funds. Securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements generally mature
between one and ninety days. Commercial paper generally is issued in amounts not less than $100,000, and with maturities of 270
days or less. Other borrowed funds consist of demand notes, term federal funds purchased, and various other borrowings that
generally have maturities of one year or less.
310  
Signatures
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on behalf of the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.
        (Registrant)
 By: /s/ JAMES DIMON
 
 (James Dimon
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer)
 February 25, 2020
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on
behalf of the registrant and in the capacity and on the date indicated. JPMorgan Chase & Co. does not exercise the power of
attorney to sign on behalf of any Director.
  Capacity  Date
/s/ JAMES DIMON  Director, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 (Principal Executive Officer)  
(James Dimon)    
/s/ LINDA B. BAMMANN  Director   
(Linda B. Bammann)    
/s/ JAMES A. BELL  Director   
(James A. Bell)    
/s/ STEPHEN B. BURKE  Director   
(Stephen B. Burke)     
/s/ TODD A. COMBS  Director   
(Todd A. Combs)    
/s/ JAMES S. CROWN  Director  February 25, 2020
(James S. Crown)     
/s/ TIMOTHY P. FLYNN  Director   
(Timothy P. Flynn)     
/s/ MELLODY HOBSON  Director   
(Mellody Hobson)    
/s/ LABAN P. JACKSON, JR.  Director   
(Laban P. Jackson, Jr.)     
/s/ MICHAEL A. NEAL  Director   
(Michael A. Neal)    
/s/ LEE R. RAYMOND  Director   
(Lee R. Raymond)     
/s/ JENNIFER PIEPSZAK  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer)  
(Jennifer Piepszak)    
/s/ NICOLE GILES  Managing Director and Firmwide Controller
(Principal Accounting Officer)  
(Nicole Giles)    
 311
