UNITED ST ATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGT ON, D.C. 20549
FORM 10-K
Annual report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
For the fiscal year ended Commission file
December 31, 2018 number 1-5805
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware 13-2624428
(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)(I.R.S. employer
identification no.)
  
383 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10179
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code)
  
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (212) 270-6000
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class Name of each exchange on which registered
Common stock The New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares, each representing a one-four hundredth interest in a share of 5.45% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series P The New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares, each representing a one-four hundredth interest in a share of 6.70% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series T The New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares, each representing a one-four hundredth interest in a share of 6.30% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series
W  The New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares, each representing a one-four hundredth interest in a share of 6.125% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series
Y  The New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares, each representing a one-four hundredth interest in a share of 6.10% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series
AA  The New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares, each representing a one-four hundredth interest in a share of 6.15% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series
BB  The New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares, each representing a one-four hundredth interest in a share of 5.75% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series
DD  The New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares, each representing a one-four hundredth interest in a share of 6.00% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series
EE  The New York Stock Exchange
Alerian MLP Index ETNs due May 24, 2024 NYSE Arca, Inc.
Guarantee of Callable Step-Up Fixed Rate Notes due April 26, 2028 of JPMorgan Chase Financial Company LLC The New York Stock Exchange
Guarantee of Cushing 30 MLP Index ETNs due June 15, 2037 of JPMorgan Chase Financial Company LLC NYSE Arca, Inc.
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. o Yes x No
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. o Yes x No
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. x Yes o No
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter)
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). x Yes o No
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. x
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions
of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
x Large accelerated filer o Accelerated filer o Non-accelerated filer o Smaller reporting company o Emerging growth company
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards
provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. o
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). o Yes x No
The aggregate market value of JPMorgan Chase & Co. common stock held by non-affiliates as of June 30, 2018: $347,963,159,674
Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of January 31, 2019: 3,274,241,726
Documents incorporated by reference: Portions of the registrant’s Proxy Statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on May 21, 2019, are incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K
in response to Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of Part III.
Form 10-K Index
Part I  Page
Item 1. Business . 1
 Overview 1
 Business segments 1
 Competition 1
 Supervision and regulation 1–6
 Distribution of assets, liabilities and stockholders’  equity; interest rates and interest dif ferentials 288–292
 Return on equity and assets 40, 287, 288
 Investment securities portfolio 300
 Loan portfolio 102–1 19, 219–238,
301–306
 Summary of loan and lending-related commitments loss experience 120–122, 239–243,
307–308
 Deposits 256, 309
 Short-term and other borrowed funds 310
Item 1A. Risk Factors. 7–28
Item 1B. Unresolved Staf f Comments. 28
Item 2. Properties. 29
Item 3. Legal Proceedings. 29
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 29
   
Part II   
Item 5. Market for Registrant’ s Common Equity , Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 30
Item 6. Selected Financial Data. 30
Item 7. Management’ s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 30
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 30
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 30
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 31
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. 31
Item 9B. Other Information. 31
   
Part III   
Item 10. Directors, Executive Of ficers and Corporate Governance. 32
Item 1 1. Executive Compensation. 33
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 33
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 33
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services. 33
   
Part IV   
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. 34-37
Part I
Item 1. Business.
Overview
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“JPMorgan Chase” or the “Firm”, NYSE:
JPM), a financial holding company incorporated under Delaware law
in 1968, is a leading global financial services firm and one of the
largest banking institutions in the United States of America (“U.S.”),
with operations worldwide; JPMorgan Chase had $2.6 trillion in assets
and $256.5 billion in stockholders’ equity as of December 31, 2018.
The Firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for
consumers and small businesses, commercial banking, financial
transaction processing and asset management. Under the J.P. Morgan
and Chase brands, the Firm serves millions of customers in the U.S.
and globally many of the world’s most prominent corporate,
institutional and government clients.
JPMorgan Chase’s principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase
Bank, National Association (“JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.”), a
national banking association with U.S. branches in 27 states and the
District of Columbia as of December 31, 2018, and Chase Bank USA,
National Association (“Chase Bank USA, N.A.”), a national banking
association that is the Firm’s principal credit card-issuing bank. In
January 2019, the OCC approved an application of merger which was
filed by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A. in
December 2018 and which contemplates that Chase Bank USA, N.A.
will merge with and into JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., with JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. as the surviving bank. For additional information
refer to Supervision and Regulation on pages 1-6 in the 2018 Form 10-
K. JPMorgan Chase’s principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P. Morgan
Securities LLC (“J.P. Morgan Securities”), a U.S. broker-dealer. The
bank and non-bank subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase operate nationally
as well as through overseas branches and subsidiaries, representative
offices and subsidiary foreign banks. The Firm’s principal operating
subsidiary in the U.K. is J.P. Morgan Securities plc, a subsidiary of
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
The Firm’s website is www.jpmorganchase.com. JPMorgan Chase
makes available on its website, free of charge, annual reports on Form
10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K
pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically
files or furnishes such material to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (the “SEC”) at www.sec.gov. The Firm has adopted, and
posted on its website, a Code of Conduct for all employees of the Firm
and a Code of Ethics for its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer and all other
professionals of the Firm worldwide serving in a finance, accounting,
tax or investor relations role.
Business segments
JPMorgan Chase’s activities are organized, for management reporting
purposes, into four major reportable business segments, as well as a
Corporate segment. The Firm’s consumer business is the Consumer & Community Banking (“CCB”)
segment. The Firm’s wholesale business segments are the Corporate &
Investment Bank (“CIB”), Commercial Banking (“CB”), and Asset &
Wealth Management (“AWM”).
A description of the Firm’s business segments and the products and
services they provide to their respective client bases is provided in the
“Business segment results” section of Management’s discussion and
analysis of financial condition and results of operations
(“Management’s discussion and analysis” or “MD&A”), beginning on
page 42 and in Note 31.
Competition
JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries and affiliates operate in highly
competitive environments. Competitors include other banks, brokerage
firms, investment banking companies, merchant banks, hedge funds,
commodity trading companies, private equity firms, insurance
companies, mutual fund companies, investment managers, credit card
companies, mortgage banking companies, trust companies, securities
processing companies, automobile financing companies, leasing
companies, e-commerce and other Internet-based companies, financial
technology companies, and other companies engaged in providing
similar products and services. The Firm’s businesses generally
compete on the basis of the quality and variety of the Firm’s products
and services, transaction execution, innovation, reputation and price.
Competition also varies based on the types of clients, customers,
industries and geographies served. With respect to some of its
geographies and products, JPMorgan Chase competes globally; with
respect to others, the Firm competes on a national or regional basis.
The Firm’s ability to compete also depends upon its ability to attract
and retain professional and other personnel, and on its reputation.
Competition in the financial services industry continues to be intense.
In some cases, the Firm’s businesses compete with other financial
institutions that may have a stronger local presence in certain
geographies or that operate under different rules and regulatory
regimes than the Firm, and with companies that provide new or
innovative products or services, including those that the Firm does not
provide.
Supervision and regulation
The Firm is subject to extensive and comprehensive regulation under
U.S. federal and state laws, as well as the applicable laws of the
jurisdictions outside the U.S. in which the Firm does business. The
Firm has experienced an extended period of significant change in
regulation which has had and could continue to have significant
consequences for how the Firm conducts business in the U.S. and other
countries.
 1
Part I
Financial holding company:
Consolidated supervision. JPMorgan Chase & Co. is a bank holding
company (“BHC”) and a financial holding company (“FHC”) under
U.S. federal law, and is subject to comprehensive consolidated
supervision, regulation and examination by the Board of Governors of
the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”). The Federal
Reserve acts as an “umbrella regulator,” and certain of JPMorgan
Chase’s subsidiaries are regulated directly by additional authorities
based on the activities of those subsidiaries.
JPMorgan Chase’s national bank subsidiaries, JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., are supervised and regulated by the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) and, with respect
to certain matters, by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the
“FDIC”). In January 2019, the OCC approved an application of merger
which was filed by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank
USA, N.A. in December 2018 and which contemplates that Chase
Bank USA, N.A. will merge with and into JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A., with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as the surviving bank.
Completion of the merger, which is expected to occur in the second
quarter of 2019, will be subject to customary closing conditions which
will be set forth in an agreement and plan of merger to be entered into
between the banks. The merger may be abandoned by JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A. at any time before completion.
JPMorgan Chase’s U.S. broker-dealers are supervised and regulated by
the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), and subsidiaries of the
Firm that engage in certain futures-related and swaps-related activities
are supervised and regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission (“CFTC”). J.P. Morgan Securities plc is a U.K. bank
licensed within the European Economic Area (the “EEA”), and is
regulated by the U.K. Prudential Regulation Authority (the “PRA”)
and the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”).
The Firm’s other non-U.S. subsidiaries are regulated by the banking
and securities regulatory authorities in the countries in which they
operate.
Permissible business activities. The Bank Holding Company Act
generally restricts BHCs from engaging in business activities other
than the business of banking and certain closely-related activities.
FHCs can engage in a broader range of financial activities, including
underwriting, dealing and making markets in securities, and making
merchant banking investments in non-financial companies. The
Federal Reserve has the authority to limit an FHC’s ability to conduct
otherwise permissible activities if the FHC or any of its depository
institution subsidiaries ceases to meet applicable eligibility
requirements. The Federal Reserve may also impose corrective capital
and/or managerial requirements on the FHC, and if deficiencies are
persistent, may require divestiture of the FHC’s depository institutions. If any depository institution controlled by an FHC fails to maintain a
satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act, the
Federal Reserve must prohibit the FHC and its subsidiaries from
engaging in any activities other than those permissible for BHCs.
Capital and liquidity requirements. The Federal Reserve establishes
capital, liquidity and leverage requirements for JPMorgan Chase and
evaluates the Firm’s compliance with those requirements. The OCC
establishes similar requirements for the Firm’s national banking
subsidiaries. Banking supervisors globally continue to refine and
enhance the Basel III capital framework for financial institutions,
including the finalization of post-crisis reforms.
In January 2019, the Basel Committee issued “Minimum capital
requirements for market risk,” which supersedes a previous release
from January 2016. The Basel Committee expects national regulators
to implement these revised market risk requirements for banking
organizations in their jurisdictions by January 1, 2022, in line with the
other elements of the Basel III Reforms.
U.S. banking regulators have announced their support for the issuance
of the Basel III Reforms and are considering how to appropriately
apply such reforms in the U.S. Any changes to U.S. capital rules based
on the Basel III Reforms would first be proposed for public comment.
In October 2018, the U.S. banking regulators issued a notice of
proposed rulemaking “Standardized Approach for Calculating the
Exposure Amount of Derivatives” (“SA-CCR”), with an
implementation date of July 1, 2020. This proposal reflects the U.S
implementation of the Basel Committee’s equivalent standard, which
was finalized in 2014 as part of the post-crisis reform package.
Under Basel III, bank holding companies and banks are required to
measure their liquidity against two specific liquidity tests: the liquidity
coverage ratio (“LCR”) and the net stable funding ratio (“NSFR”).  In
April 2016, the U.S. banking regulators issued a proposed rule for
NSFR, but no final rule has been issued. 
For more information concerning capital and liquidity requirements,
refer to Capital Risk Management on pages 85-94 and Liquidity Risk
Management on pages 95–100.
Stress tests. As a large BHC, JPMorgan Chase is subject to supervisory
stress testing administered by the Federal Reserve as part of the
Federal Reserve’s annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review
(“CCAR”) framework. The Firm must conduct semi-annual company-
run stress tests and must also submit an annual capital plan to the
Federal Reserve, taking into account the results of separate stress tests
designed by the Firm and the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve’s
review of the Firm’s capital plan considers both quantitative and
qualitative factors. The Firm is required to receive a notice of non-
objection from the Federal Reserve each year before taking capital
actions, such as paying dividends, implementing common equity
repurchase programs or redeeming or repurchasing capital
2  
instruments. The OCC requires JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and
Chase Bank USA, N.A. to perform separate, similar stress tests
annually. The Firm publishes each year the results of its mid-cycle
stress tests under the Firm’s internally-developed “severely adverse”
scenario and the results of the annual stress tests for the Firm and its
principal banking subsidiaries under the supervisory “severely
adverse” scenarios provided by the Federal Reserve and the OCC. The
Firm is required to file its 2019 annual CCAR submission on April 5,
2019. Results will be published by the Federal Reserve by June 30,
2019, with disclosures of results by BHCs, including the Firm, to
follow within 15 days. The mid-cycle capital stress test submissions
are due on October 5, 2019 and BHCs, including the Firm, will publish
results by November 4, 2019. For more information concerning the
Firm’s CCAR, refer to Capital Risk Management on pages 85-94.
Enhanced prudential standards. As part of its mandate to identify and
monitor risks to the financial stability of the U.S. posed by large
banking organizations, the Financial Stability Oversight Council
(“FSOC”) recommends prudential standards and reporting
requirements to the Federal Reserve for systemically important
financial institutions (“SIFIs”), such as JPMorgan Chase. The Federal
Reserve has adopted several rules to implement those heightened
prudential standards, including rules relating to risk management and
corporate governance of subject BHCs. Large BHCs such as JPMorgan
Chase are required to comply with enhanced liquidity and overall risk
management standards, including oversight by the board of directors of
risk management activities.
Orderly liquidation authority and resolution and recovery. The Firm is
required to submit periodically to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a
plan for resolution under Title I of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform
and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) in the event of
material distress or failure (a “resolution plan”). The Firm’s next
resolution plan is due to be filed on or before July 1, 2019. The Firm
also has a comprehensive recovery plan detailing the actions it would
take to avoid failure by remaining well-capitalized and well-funded in
the case of an adverse event.
Certain financial companies, including JPMorgan Chase and certain of
its subsidiaries, can also be subjected to resolution under an “orderly
liquidation authority.” The U.S. Treasury Secretary, in consultation
with the President of the United States, must first make certain
determinations concerning extraordinary financial distress and
systemic risk, and action must be recommended by the FDIC and the
Federal Reserve. Absent such actions, the Firm, as a BHC, would
remain subject to resolution under the Bankruptcy Code. The FDIC has
issued a draft policy statement describing its “single point of entry”
strategy for resolution of SIFIs under the orderly liquidation authority,
which seeks to keep operating subsidiaries of a BHC open and impose
losses on shareholders and creditors of the BHC in receivership
according to their statutory order of priority. The FDIC has not formally adopted its proposed single point of entry
strategy.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A. are both
required to provide resolution plans to the FDIC. The FDIC is
expected to propose changes to its rules relating to the resolution plans
of insured depository institutions (“IDIs”) in an advanced notice of
proposed rulemaking. The OCC has published guidelines establishing
standards for recovery planning by insured national banks, and
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A. have
submitted their recovery plans to the OCC.
Certain of the Firm’s non-U.S. subsidiaries are also subject to
resolution and recovery planning requirements in the jurisdictions in
which they operate.
Holding company as source of strength. JPMorgan Chase & Co. is
required to serve as a source of financial strength for its depository
institution subsidiaries and to commit resources to support those
subsidiaries, including when directed to do so by the Federal Reserve.
Regulation of acquisitions. Acquisitions by BHCs and their banks are
subject to multiple requirements established by the Federal Reserve
and the OCC. For example, FHCs and BHCs are required to obtain the
approval of the Federal Reserve before they may acquire more than
5% of the voting shares of an unaffiliated bank. In addition,
acquisitions by financial companies are prohibited if, as a result of the
acquisition, the total liabilities of the financial company would exceed
10% of the total liabilities of all financial companies. Furthermore, for
certain acquisitions, the Firm must provide written notice to the
Federal Reserve prior to acquiring direct or indirect ownership or
control of any voting shares of any company with over $10 billion in
assets that is engaged in activities that are “financial in nature.”
Volcker Rule. The Volcker Rule prohibits banking entities, including
the Firm, from engaging in certain “proprietary trading” activities,
subject to exceptions for underwriting, market-making, risk-mitigating
hedging and certain other activities. The Volcker Rule also limits the
sponsorship of, and investment in, “covered funds,” and imposes limits
on certain transactions between the Firm and covered funds for which
a JPMorgan Chase entity serves as the investment manager, investment
advisor, commodity trading advisor or sponsor, as well as certain
covered funds controlled by such funds. The Volcker Rule requires
banking entities to establish comprehensive compliance programs
reasonably designed to help ensure and monitor compliance with the
restrictions under the Volcker Rule.
Consent orders. The Firm remains subject to consent orders entered
into with its banking regulators between 2013 and 2016 concerning
anti-money laundering, the CIO investigation, foreign exchange
trading and referral hiring practices.
 3
Part I
JPMorgan Chase’s subsidiary banks:
The activities of the Firm’s principal subsidiary banks, JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., are limited to those
specifically authorized under the National Bank Act and related
interpretations of the OCC.
FDIC deposit insurance. The FDIC deposit insurance fund provides
insurance coverage for certain deposits and is funded through
assessments on banks, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase
Bank USA, N.A.
FDIC powers upon a bank insolvency. Upon the insolvency of an IDI,
such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., the
FDIC could be appointed as the conservator or receiver under the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act (“FDIA”). The FDIC has broad powers
to transfer any assets and liabilities without the approval of the
institution’s creditors.
Cross-guarantee. An FDIC-insured depository institution can be held
liable for any loss incurred or expected to be incurred by the FDIC if
another FDIC-insured institution that is under common control with
such institution is in default or is deemed to be “in danger of default”
(commonly referred to as “cross-guarantee” liability). An FDIC cross-
guarantee claim against a depository institution is generally superior in
right of payment to claims of the holding company and its affiliates
against such depository institution.
Prompt corrective action. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Improvement Act of 1991 requires the relevant federal banking
regulator to take “prompt corrective action” with respect to a
depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital
adequacy standards. Although these regulations apply only to banks,
such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., the
Federal Reserve is authorized to take appropriate action against the
parent BHC, such as JPMorgan Chase & Co., based on the
undercapitalized status of any bank subsidiary. In certain instances, the
BHC would be required to guarantee the performance of the capital
restoration plan for its undercapitalized subsidiary.
OCC Heightened Standards. The OCC has established guidelines
setting forth heightened standards for large banks, including minimum
standards for the design and implementation of a risk governance
framework for banks. Under these standards, a bank’s risk governance
framework must ensure that the bank’s risk profile is easily
distinguished and separate from that of its parent BHC for risk
management purposes. The bank’s board or risk committee is
responsible for approving the bank’s risk governance framework,
providing active oversight of the bank’s risk-taking activities, and
holding management accountable for adhering to the risk governance
framework.
Restrictions on transactions with affiliates. The bank subsidiaries of
JPMorgan Chase (including subsidiaries of those banks) are subject to
restrictions imposed by federal law on extensions of credit to,
investments in stock or securities of, and derivatives, securities lending and certain other
transactions with, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and certain other affiliates.
These restrictions prevent JPMorgan Chase & Co. and other affiliates
from borrowing from such subsidiaries unless the loans are secured in
specified amounts and comply with certain other requirements.
Dividend restrictions. Federal law imposes limitations on the payment
of dividends by national banks, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
and Chase Bank USA, N.A. Refer to Note 25 for the amount of
dividends that the Firm’s principal bank subsidiaries could pay, at
January 1, 2019, to their respective BHCs without the approval of their
banking regulators. The OCC and the Federal Reserve also have
authority to prohibit or limit the payment of dividends of the bank
subsidiaries that they supervise if, in the banking regulator’s opinion,
payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice
in light of the financial condition of the bank.
Depositor preference. Under federal law, the claims of a receiver of an
IDI for administrative expense and the claims of holders of U.S.
deposit liabilities (including the FDIC and deposits in non-U.S.
branches that are dually payable in the U.S. and in a non-U.S. branch)
have priority over the claims of other unsecured creditors of the
institution, including depositors in non-U.S. branches and public
noteholders.
Consumer supervision and regulation. JPMorgan Chase and its
national bank subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by
the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) with respect to
federal consumer protection laws, including laws relating to fair
lending and the prohibition of unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or
practices in connection with the offer, sale or provision of consumer
financial products and services. These laws include the Truth-in-
Lending, Equal Credit Opportunity Act (“ECOA”), Fair Credit
Reporting, Fair Debt Collection Practice, Electronic Funds Transfer,
Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure (“CARD”)
and Home Mortgage Disclosure Acts. The CFPB also has jurisdiction
over small business lending activities with respect to fair lending and
ECOA. As part of its regulatory oversight, the CFPB has authority to
take enforcement actions against firms that offer certain products and
services to consumers using practices that are deemed to be unfair,
deceptive or abusive. The Firm’s consumer activities are also subject to
regulation under state statutes which are enforced by the Attorney
General of each state.
Securities and broker-dealer regulation:
The Firm conducts securities underwriting, dealing and brokerage
activities in the U.S. through J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and other
non-bank broker-dealer subsidiaries, all of which are subject to
regulations of the SEC, FINRA and the New York Stock Exchange,
among others. The Firm conducts similar securities activities outside
the U.S. subject to local regulatory requirements. In the U.K., those
activities are conducted by J.P. Morgan Securities plc. Broker-dealers
are subject to laws and
4  
regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including
sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of research
reports, use of customer funds, the financing of client purchases,
capital structure, record-keeping and retention, and the conduct of their
directors, officers and employees. For information concerning the
capital of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities plc,
refer to Broker-dealer regulatory capital on page 94.
Investment management regulation:
The Firm’s asset and wealth management businesses are subject to
significant regulation in jurisdictions around the world relating to,
among other things, the safeguarding and management of client assets,
offerings of funds and marketing activities. Certain of the Firm’s
subsidiaries are registered with, and subject to oversight by, the SEC as
investment advisers. The Firm’s registered investment advisers are
subject to the fiduciary and other obligations imposed under the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as well as various state securities
laws. The Firm’s fiduciary activities are also subject to supervision by
the OCC.
The Firm’s asset and wealth management businesses continue to be
affected by ongoing rule-making and implementation of new
regulations, including the SEC’s proposed Regulation Best Interest and
rules proposed or adopted by certain U.S. states relating to enhanced
standards of conduct for broker-dealers and certain other market
participants. In June 2018, the Department of Labor’s fiduciary rule,
which would have significantly expanded the universe of persons
viewed as investment advice fiduciaries to retirement plans and
individual retirement accounts under the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, as amended, was vacated by the United States
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.
In the European Union (“EU”), substantial revisions to the Markets in
Financial Instruments Directive (“MiFID II”) became effective in EU
member states beginning in January 2018. These revisions introduced
expanded requirements for a broad range of investment management
activities, including product governance, transparency on costs and
charges, independent investment advice, inducements, record-keeping
and client reporting. In addition, the Regulation on Money Market
Funds has instituted new requirements to enhance the liquidity and
stability of money market funds in the EU.
Derivatives regulation:
The Firm is subject to comprehensive regulation of its derivatives
businesses, including regulations that impose capital and margin
requirements, require central clearing of standardized over-the-counter
(“OTC”) derivatives, mandate that certain standardized over-the-
counter swaps be traded on regulated trading venues, and provide for
reporting of certain mandated information. In accordance with
requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.,
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities plc have
registered with the CFTC as “swap dealers” and may be required to
register with the SEC as “security-based swap dealers.” As a result, these entities are or will be
subject to a comprehensive regulatory framework applicable to their
swap or security-based swap activities, including capital requirements,
rules requiring the collateralization of uncleared swaps and security-
based swaps, rules regarding segregation of counterparty collateral,
business conduct and documentation standards, record-keeping and
reporting obligations, and anti-fraud and anti-manipulation
requirements. In the EU, the implementation of the European Market
Infrastructure Regulation (“EMIR”) and MiFID II has resulted in
comparable, but not identical, changes to the European regulatory
regime for derivatives.
The Firm and other derivatives market participants have agreed to
adhere to the 2015 Universal Resolution Stay Protocol (the “2015
Protocol”), the 2018 U.S. Resolution Stay Protocol (the “2018
Protocol”) and the Resolution Stay Jurisdictional Modular Protocol,
each developed by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association
(“ISDA”) in response to regulator concerns that the close-out of
derivatives and other financial transactions during the resolution of a
large cross-border financial institution could impede resolution efforts
and potentially destabilize markets. These protocols provide for the
contractual recognition of cross-border stays under various statutory
resolution regimes and, in the case of the 2015 Protocol and 2018
Protocol, a contractual stay on certain cross-default rights.
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC is registered with the CFTC as a futures
commission merchant, and is a member of the National Futures
Association.
Data and cyber regulation:
The Firm and its subsidiaries are subject to numerous U.S. federal and
state as well as international laws and regulations concerning the
collection, use, confidentiality, disclosure, transfer, protection and
handling of information, including personal information of individuals
and confidential information (including the EU General Data
Protection Regulation), as well as the management of internal and
external threats and vulnerabilities to protect information assets and the
supporting infrastructure from cyberattacks. These laws and regulations
are evolving at a rapid pace, remain a focus of regulators globally and
will continue to have a significant impact on all of the Firm’s
businesses.
The Bank Secrecy Act and Economic Sanctions:
The Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”) requires all financial institutions,
including banks and securities broker-dealers, to establish a risk-based
system of internal controls reasonably designed to prevent money
laundering and the financing of terrorism. The BSA includes a variety
of record-keeping and reporting requirements, as well as due
diligence/know-your-customer documentation requirements. The Firm
is also subject to the regulations and economic sanctions programs
administered by the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control
(“OFAC”). In addition, the EU has adopted various economic sanctions
 5
Part I
programs targeted at countries that are involved in terrorism, hostilities,
embezzlement or human rights violations.
Anti-Corruption:
The Firm is subject to laws and regulations relating to corrupt and
illegal payments to government officials and others in the jurisdictions
in which it operates, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
and the U.K. Bribery Act.
Compensation practices:
The Firm’s compensation practices are subject to oversight by the
Federal Reserve, as well as other agencies. The Federal Reserve has
issued guidance jointly with the FDIC and the OCC that is designed to
ensure that incentive compensation paid by banking organizations does
not encourage imprudent risk-taking that threatens the organizations’
safety and soundness. The Financial Stability Board (“FSB”) has also
established standards covering compensation principles for banks. The
Firm’s compensation practices are also subject to regulation and
oversight by regulators in other jurisdictions. In Europe, the EU Fourth
Capital Requirements Directive (“CRD IV”) includes compensation-
related provisions, and the European Banking Authority has instituted
guidelines on compensation policies which in certain countries, such as
the U.K., are implemented or supplemented by local regulations or
guidelines. The Firm expects that the implementation of regulatory
guidelines regarding compensation in the U.S. and other countries will
continue to evolve, and may affect the manner in which the Firm
structures its compensation programs and practices.
Significant international regulatory initiatives:
The EU continues to implement an extensive and complex program of
regulatory enhancement to address risks associated with global
financial institutions. The EU operates a European Systemic Risk
Board that monitors financial stability and encourages supervisory
convergence across the EU’s member states, and European Supervisory
Authorities (“ESAs”) are responsible for adopting and implementing
related rules. The EU is currently reviewing the ESA framework and
the European Commission (the “EC”) has proposed legislation to
change the roles and responsibilities of the ESAs. The EU has also
created a Single Supervisory Mechanism for the euro-zone, under
which the regulation of all banks in the zone are under the auspices of
the European Central Bank, together with a Single Resolution
Mechanism and Single Resolution Board, which has jurisdiction over
the resolution of banks in the zone.
Significant regulatory initiatives affecting the Firm’s businesses in the
EU include EMIR and MiFID II. EMIR requires the central clearing of
certain standardized derivatives and risk mitigation for uncleared OTC
derivatives. EMIR is currently in the process of being amended as part
of a legislative proposal known as “EMIR REFIT,” which will
introduce targeted changes to EMIR to make the rules more
streamlined and proportionate. There is also a separate EMIR
legislative proposal which includes provisions for third-country
supervision of CCPs. MiFID II requires that the trading of standardized OTC derivatives be effected on
exchanges or electronic trading platforms, and also significantly
enhanced requirements for pre- and post-trade transparency, transaction
reporting and investor protection, and introduced position limits and a
reporting regime for commodities. MiFID II became effective across
EU member states in January 2018 and will be subject to a review by
the EC by March 2020.
The EU has also proposed or implemented significant revisions to laws
covering securities settlement; mutual funds and pensions; payments;
anti-money laundering controls; data security and privacy;
transparency and disclosure of securities financing transactions;
benchmarks; resolution of banks, investment firms and market
infrastructures; and capital and liquidity requirements for banks and
investment firms. The EU capital and liquidity legislation for banks and
investment firms is implementing many of the finalized Basel III
capital and liquidity standards, including in relation to the leverage
ratio, market risk capital, and a net stable funding ratio. EU legislation
also contemplates a requirement for certain non-EU banks operating in
the EU to establish an intermediate parent undertaking (“IPU”) located
in the EU. The full impact of the IPU proposal on JPMorgan Chase’s
operations and legal entities in the EU will be heavily influenced by the
outcome of the EU legislative process, including whether any
flexibility is introduced to the requirement. The “trilogue” negotiations
to determine the final legislation have concluded and the agreement is
subject to a final vote by the European Council and European
Parliament before becoming EU law.
The FSB’s standard relating to total loss-absorbing capacity (“TLAC”),
which was issued in November 2015, specified minimum TLAC
requirements for global systemically important banks, including at the
level of their material sub-groups. These requirements are being
implemented in the EU in the form of a minimum requirement for own
funds and eligible liabilities (“MREL”). The Bank of England
published its updated Statement of Policy on its approach to setting
MREL in June 2018. This included new requirements on the MREL
resources to be held by U.K. material subsidiaries of overseas groups.
These rules came into effect, on a transitional basis, from January 1,
2019.
U.K. regulators have adopted a range of policy measures that have
significantly changed the markets and prudential regulatory
environment in the U.K., and have also introduced measures to
enhance accountability of individuals and promote forward-looking
conduct risk identification and mitigation. There is significant
uncertainty concerning future U.K. policy initiatives in light of the
expected departure of the U.K. from the EU, as these initiatives will
depend on the future relationship between the EU and U.K. For
information concerning the expected departure of the U.K. from the
EU, refer to Risk factors on pages 7–28 and Business developments on
page 46.
6  
Item 1A. Risk Factors.
The following discussion sets forth the material risk factors that could
affect JPMorgan Chase’s financial condition and operations. Readers
should not consider any descriptions of these factors to be a complete
set of all potential risks that could affect the Firm. Any of the risk
factors discussed below could by itself, or combined with other factors,
materially and adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s business, results of
operations, financial condition, capital position, liquidity, competitive
position or reputation, including by materially increasing expenses or
decreasing revenues, which could result in material losses or a
decrease in earnings.
Regulatory
JPMorgan Chase’s businesses are highly regulated, and the laws
and regulations that apply to JPMorgan Chase have a significant
impact on its business and operations.
JPMorgan Chase is a financial services firm with operations
worldwide. JPMorgan Chase must comply with the laws and
regulations that apply to its operations in all of the jurisdictions around
the world in which it does business. The regulation of financial
services is extensive and comprehensive.
JPMorgan Chase has experienced an extended period of significant
change in laws and regulations affecting the financial services industry,
both within and outside the U.S. The supervision of financial services
firms also expanded significantly during this period. The wave of
increased regulation and supervision of JPMorgan Chase has affected
the way that it conducts its business and structures its operations.
Existing and new laws and regulations and expanded supervision could
require JPMorgan Chase to make further changes to its business and
operations. These changes could result in JPMorgan Chase incurring
additional costs for complying with laws and regulations and could
reduce JPMorgan Chase’s profitability. More specifically, existing and
new laws and regulations could require JPMorgan Chase to:
•limit the products and services that it offers
•reduce the liquidity that it can provide through its market-making
activities
•stop or discourage it from engaging in business opportunities that
it might otherwise pursue
•recognize losses in the value of assets that it holds
•pay higher assessments, levies or other governmental charges
•dispose of certain assets, and do so at times or prices that are
disadvantageous
•impose restrictions on certain business activities, or
•increase the prices that it charges for products and services, which
could reduce the demand for them. Differences in financial services regulation can be disadvantageous
for JPMorgan Chase’s business.
The content and application of laws and regulations affecting financial
services firms sometimes vary according to factors such as the size of
the firm, the jurisdiction in which it is organized or operates, and other
criteria. For example:
•larger firms are often subject to more stringent supervision and
regulation
•financial technology companies and other non-traditional
competitors may not be subject to banking regulation, or may be
supervised by a national or state regulatory agency that does not
have the same resources or regulatory priorities as the regulatory
agencies which supervise more diversified financial services
firms, or
•the financial services regulatory framework in a particular
jurisdiction may favor financial institutions that are based in that
jurisdiction.
These types of differences in the regulatory framework can result in a
firm such as JPMorgan Chase losing market share to competitors that
are less regulated or not subject to regulation, especially with respect
to unregulated financial products.
There can also be significant differences in the ways that similar
regulatory initiatives affecting the financial services industry are
implemented in the U.S. and in other countries and regions in which
JPMorgan Chase does business. For example, when adopting rules that
are intended to implement a global regulatory initiative or standard, a
national regulator may introduce additional or more restrictive
requirements, which can create competitive disadvantages for financial
services firms, such as JPMorgan Chase, that may be subject to those
enhanced regulations.
Legislative and regulatory initiatives outside the U.S. could require
JPMorgan Chase to make significant modifications to its operations
and legal entity structure in the relevant countries or regions in order to
comply with those requirements. These include laws and regulations
that have been adopted or proposed relating to:
•the resolution of financial institutions
•the establishment of locally-based intermediate holding companies
•the separation (or “ring fencing”) of core banking products and
services from markets activities
•requirements for executing or settling transactions on exchanges
or through central counterparties (“CCPs”)
•position limits and reporting rules for derivatives
•governance and accountability regimes
•conduct of business requirements, and
•restrictions on compensation.
 7
Part I
These types of differences in financial services regulation, or
inconsistencies or conflicts between laws and regulations between
different jurisdictions, could require JPMorgan Chase to:
•divest assets or restructure its operations
•absorb increased operational, capital and liquidity costs
•change the prices that it charges for its products and services
•curtail the products and services that it offers to its customers and
clients, or
•incur higher costs for complying with different legal and
regulatory frameworks.
Any or all of these factors could harm JPMorgan Chase’s ability to
compete against other firms that are not subject to the same laws and
regulations or supervisory oversight, or harm JPMorgan Chase’s
businesses, results of operations and profitability.
Governments in some countries or regions in which JPMorgan Chase
does business have adopted laws or regulations which require
JPMorgan Chase subsidiaries that operate in those jurisdictions to
maintain minimum amounts of capital or liquidity on a stand-alone
basis. Some regulators outside the U.S. have also proposed that large
banks which conduct certain businesses in their jurisdictions operate
through separate subsidiaries located in those jurisdictions. These
requirements, and any future laws or regulations that impose
restrictions on the way JPMorgan Chase organizes its businesses or
increase the capital or liquidity requirements that would apply to
JPMorgan Chase subsidiaries, could hinder JPMorgan Chase’s ability
to efficiently manage its operations, increase its funding and liquidity
costs, and result in lower profitability.
Heightened regulatory scrutiny of JPMorgan Chase’s businesses
has increased its compliance costs and could result in restrictions
on its operations.
JPMorgan Chase’s operations are subject to heightened oversight and
scrutiny from regulatory authorities in many jurisdictions where
JPMorgan Chase does business. JPMorgan Chase has paid significant
fines, provided other monetary relief, incurred other penalties and
experienced other repercussions in connection with resolving several
investigations and enforcement actions by governmental agencies.
JPMorgan Chase could become subject to similar regulatory
resolutions or other actions in the future, and addressing the
requirements of any such resolutions or actions could result in
JPMorgan Chase incurring higher operational and compliance costs or
needing to comply with other restrictions.
In connection with resolving specific regulatory investigations or
enforcement actions, certain regulators have required JPMorgan Chase
and other financial institutions to admit wrongdoing with respect to the activities that gave rise to the resolution. These types of admissions
can lead to:
•greater exposure in civil litigation
•damage to reputation
•disqualification from doing business with certain clients or
customers, or in specific jurisdictions, or
•other direct and indirect adverse effects.
Furthermore, U.S. government officials have demonstrated a
willingness to bring criminal actions against financial institutions and
have demanded that institutions plead guilty to criminal offenses or
admit other wrongdoing in connection with resolving regulatory
investigations or enforcement actions. Resolutions of this type can
have significant collateral consequences for the subject financial
institution, including:
•loss of clients, customers and business
•restrictions on offering certain products or services, and
•losing permission to operate certain businesses, either temporarily
or permanently.
JPMorgan Chase expects that it and other financial services firms will
continue to be subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny and
governmental investigations and enforcement actions. JPMorgan
Chase also expects that regulators will continue to insist that financial
institutions be penalized for actual or deemed violations of law with
formal and punitive enforcement actions, including the imposition of
significant monetary and other sanctions, rather than resolving these
matters through informal supervisory actions. Furthermore, if
JPMorgan Chase fails to meet the requirements of any resolution of a
governmental investigation or enforcement action, or to maintain risk
and control processes that meet the heightened standards established
by its regulators, it could be required to:
•enter into further resolutions
•pay additional regulatory fines, penalties or judgments, or
•accept material regulatory restrictions on, or changes in the
management of, its businesses.
In these circumstances, JPMorgan Chase could also become subject to
other sanctions, or to prosecution or civil litigation with respect to the
conduct that gave rise to an investigation or enforcement action.
The long-term impact of U.S. tax reform legislation is uncertain,
and may be affected by regulatory implementation.
The long-term impact of the Tax Cuts & Jobs Acts (“TCJA”) on
JPMorgan Chase and the U.S. economy remains uncertain. While the
enactment of the TCJA has had, and should continue to have, a
positive impact on JPMorgan Chase’s net income, the competitive
environment and other
8  
factors will influence the extent to which these benefits are retained by
JPMorgan Chase over the longer term, and the specific impact on
JPMorgan Chase’s businesses, products and geographies may vary. In
addition, the Treasury Regulations governing certain TCJA provisions
have not been finalized and their ultimate impact on JPMorgan Chase
is uncertain.
Complying with economic sanctions and anti-corruption and anti-
money laundering laws and regulations can increase JPMorgan
Chase’s operational and compliance costs and risks.
JPMorgan Chase must comply with economic sanctions and embargo
programs administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control
(“OFAC”) and similar national and multi-national bodies and
governmental agencies outside the U.S., as well as anti-corruption and
anti-money laundering laws and regulations throughout the world.
JPMorgan Chase can incur higher costs and face greater compliance
risks in structuring and operating its businesses to comply with these
requirements. Furthermore, a violation of a sanction or embargo
program or anti-corruption or anti-money laundering laws and
regulations could subject JPMorgan Chase, and individual employees,
to regulatory enforcement actions as well as significant civil and
criminal penalties.
JPMorgan Chase’s operations can be constrained in countries with
less predictable legal and regulatory frameworks.
If the legal and regulatory system in a particular country is less
established or predictable, this can create a more difficult environment
in which to conduct business. For example, any of the following could
hamper JPMorgan Chase’s operations and reduce its earnings in
countries with less established or predictable legal and regulatory
regimes:
•the absence of a statutory or regulatory basis or guidance for
engaging in specific types of business or transactions
•the adoption of conflicting or ambiguous laws and regulations, or
the inconsistent application or interpretation of existing laws and
regulations
•uncertainty concerning the enforceability of contractual
obligations
•difficulty in competing in economies in which the government
controls or protects all or a portion of the local economy or
specific businesses, or where graft or corruption may be pervasive,
and
•the threat of arbitrary regulatory investigations, civil litigations or
criminal prosecutions, the termination of licenses required to
operate in the local market or the suspension of business
relationships with governmental bodies.
Conducting business in countries with less-developed legal and
regulatory regimes often requires JPMorgan Chase to devote significant additional resources to understanding, and
monitoring changes in, local laws and regulations, as well as
structuring its operations to comply with local laws and regulations
and implementing and administering related internal policies and
procedures. There can be no assurance that JPMorgan Chase will
always be successful in its efforts to conduct its business in compliance
with laws and regulations in countries with less predictable legal and
regulatory systems or that JPMorgan Chase will be able to develop
effective working relationships with local regulators.
Requirements for the orderly resolution of JPMorgan Chase could
result in JPMorgan Chase having to restructure or reorganize its
businesses.
JPMorgan Chase is required under Federal Reserve and FDIC rules to
prepare and submit periodically to those agencies a detailed plan for
rapid and orderly resolution in bankruptcy, without extraordinary
government support, in the event of material financial distress or
failure. The agencies’ evaluation of the Firm’s resolution plan may
change, and the requirements for resolution plans may be modified
from time to time. Any such determinations or modifications could
result in JPMorgan Chase needing to make changes to its legal entity
structure or to certain internal or external activities, which could
increase its funding or operational costs.
If the Federal Reserve and the FDIC were to determine that a
resolution plan submitted by JPMorgan Chase has deficiencies, they
could jointly impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity
requirements or restrictions on JPMorgan Chase’s growth, activities or
operations. After two years, if the deficiencies are not cured, the
agencies could also require that JPMorgan Chase restructure,
reorganize or divest assets or businesses in ways that could materially
and adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s operations and strategy.
Holders of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s debt and equity securities
will absorb losses if it were to enter into a resolution.
Federal Reserve rules require that JPMorgan Chase & Co. (the “Parent
Company”) maintain minimum levels of unsecured external long-term
debt and other loss-absorbing capacity with specific terms (“eligible
LTD”) for purposes of recapitalizing JPMorgan Chase’s operating
subsidiaries if the Parent Company were to enter into a resolution
either:
•in a bankruptcy proceeding under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code, or
•in a receivership administered by the FDIC under Title II of the
Dodd-Frank Act (“Title II”).
If the Parent Company were to enter into a resolution, holders of
eligible LTD and other debt and equity securities of the Parent
Company will absorb the losses of the Parent Company and its
subsidiaries.
 9
Part I
The preferred “single point of entry” strategy under JPMorgan Chase’s
resolution plan contemplates that only the Parent Company would
enter bankruptcy proceedings. JPMorgan Chase’s subsidiaries would
be recapitalized, as needed, so that they could continue normal
operations or subsequently be divested or wound down in an orderly
manner. As a result, the Parent Company’s losses and any losses
incurred by its subsidiaries would be imposed first on holders of the
Parent Company’s equity securities and thereafter on its unsecured
creditors, including holders of eligible LTD and other debt securities.
Claims of holders of those securities would have a junior position to
the claims of creditors of JPMorgan Chase’s subsidiaries and to the
claims of priority (as determined by statute) and secured creditors of
the Parent Company.
Accordingly, in a resolution of the Parent Company in bankruptcy,
holders of eligible LTD and other debt securities of the Parent
Company would realize value only to the extent available to the Parent
Company as a shareholder of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and its
other subsidiaries, and only after any claims of priority and secured
creditors of the Parent Company have been fully repaid.
The FDIC has similarly indicated that a single point of entry
recapitalization model could be a desirable strategy to resolve a
systemically important financial institution, such as the Parent
Company, under Title II. However, the FDIC has not formally adopted
a single point of entry resolution strategy.
If the Parent Company were to approach, or enter into, a resolution,
none of the Parent Company, the Federal Reserve or the FDIC is
obligated to follow JPMorgan Chase’s preferred strategy, and losses to
holders of eligible LTD and other debt and equity securities of the
Parent Company, under whatever strategy is ultimately followed, could
be greater than they might have been under JPMorgan Chase’s
preferred strategy.
Political
The expected departure of the U.K. from the EU could negatively
affect JPMorgan Chase’s business, results of operations and
operating model.
It remains highly uncertain how the expected departure of the U.K.
from the EU, which is commonly referred to as “Brexit,” will affect
financial services firms such as JPMorgan Chase that conduct
substantial operations in the EU from legal entities that are organized
in or operating from the U.K. It is possible that the U.K. will depart
from the EU in March 2019 without any agreement having been
reached between the U.K. and the EU concerning whether or to what
extent U.K.-based firms may conduct financial services activities
within the EU. It is also possible that any agreement reached between
the U.K. and the EU may, depending on the final outcome of the
ongoing negotiations and related legislative developments:
•impede the ability of U.K.-based financial services firms to
conduct business in the EU •fail to address significant unresolved issues relating to the cross-
border conduct of financial services activities, or
•apply only temporarily.
JPMorgan Chase has been making the necessary modifications to its
legal entity structure and operations in the EU, the locations in which it
operates and the staffing in those locations to address the expected
departure of the U.K. from the EU, including the possibility that the
U.K. may depart from the EU in March 2019 without a withdrawal
agreement in place. If the U.K. departs from the EU with no
withdrawal agreement having been reached, the types of structural and
operational changes that JPMorgan Chase is in the process of making
to its European operations will result in JPMorgan Chase having to
sustain a more fragmented operating model across its U.K., EU and
other operating entities. Due to considerations such as operating
expenses, liquidity, leverage and capital, the modified European
operating framework will be more complex, less efficient and more
costly than would otherwise have been the case. JPMorgan Chase may
experience these types of inefficiencies in its business and operations
even if a withdrawal agreement is reached, for example in the event
that during the transition period contemplated by such an agreement,
the U.K. and the EU fail to reach further agreement on future trade
relationships between the U.K. and the EU, or if any other outcome
persists that does not assure ongoing access for U.K.-based financial
services firms to the EU market.
A disorderly departure of the U.K. from the EU, or the unexpected
consequences of any departure, could have significant and immediate
destabilizing effects on cross-border financial services activities,
depending on circumstances that may exist following such a
withdrawal, including:
•the possibility that clients and counterparties of financial
institutions are not positioned to continue to do business through
EU-based legal entities
•reduction or fragmentation of market liquidity that may be caused
if trading venues or CCPs currently based in the U.K. have not
completed arrangements to conduct operations from the EU either
immediately or, if authorized to continue to operate from the U.K.
on a transitional basis, after any transitional relief has expired
•uncertainties concerning the application and interpretation of laws
and regulations relating to cross-border financial services
activities
•inability to engage in certain capital markets activities through
EU-based legal entities to the extent that licenses or temporary
permission to engage in such activities have not been granted
timely by local regulators, and
10  
•lack of legal certainty concerning the treatment of existing
transactions.
Any or all of the above factors could have an adverse effect on the
overall operation of the European financial services market as well as
JPMorgan Chase’s business, operations and earnings in the U.K., the
EU and globally.
Economic uncertainty or instability caused by political
developments can hurt JPMorgan Chase’s businesses.
The economic environment and market conditions in which JPMorgan
Chase operates continue to be uncertain due to political developments
in the U.S. and other countries. Certain policy initiatives and proposals
could cause a contraction in U.S. and global economic growth and
higher volatility in the financial markets, including:
•inability to reach political consensus to keep the U.S. government
open and funded
•isolationist foreign policies
•the introduction of tariffs and other protectionist trade policies, or
•the possible withdrawal or reduction of government support for
the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Corporation (together, the “GSEs”).
These types of political developments, and uncertainty about the
possible outcomes of these developments, could:
•erode investor confidence in the U.S. economy and financial
markets, which could potentially undermine the status of the U.S.
dollar as a safe haven currency
•provoke retaliatory countermeasures by other countries and
otherwise heighten tensions in diplomatic relations
•increase concerns about whether the U.S. government will be
funded, and its outstanding debt serviced, at any particular time,
and
•result in periodic shutdowns of the U.S. government or
governments in other countries.
These factors could lead to:
•greater market volatility
•large-scale sales of government debt and other debt and
equity securities in the U.S. and other countries
•the widening of credit spreads
•inflationary pressures
•lower investment growth, and
•other market dislocations.
Any of these potential outcomes could cause JPMorgan Chase to suffer
losses on its market-making positions or in its investment securities
portfolio, reduce its liquidity and capital levels, hamper its ability to
deliver products and services to its clients and customers, and weaken its results of
operations and financial condition.
Market
JPMorgan Chase’s businesses are materially affected by economic
and market events and conditions.
JPMorgan Chase’s results of operations can be negatively affected by
adverse changes in any of the following:
•investor, consumer and business sentiment
•events that reduce confidence in the financial markets
•inflation or deflation
•high unemployment or, conversely, a tightening labor market
•the availability and cost of capital and credit
•monetary and fiscal policies and actions taken by the Federal
Reserve and other central banks or governmental authorities,
including any suspension or reversal of large-scale asset purchases
•trade policies implemented by governmental authorities
•the economic effects of natural disasters, severe weather
conditions, health emergencies or pandemics, cyberattacks,
outbreaks of hostilities, terrorism or other geopolitical instabilities,
and
•the health of the U.S. and global economies.
JPMorgan Chase’s consumer businesses can be negatively affected
by adverse economic conditions.
JPMorgan Chase’s consumer businesses are particularly affected by
U.S. and global economic conditions, including:
•interest rates
•the rates of inflation and unemployment
•housing prices
•the level of consumer and small business confidence
•changes in consumer spending or in the level of consumer debt,
and
•the number of personal bankruptcies.
A rapid increase in interest rates could negatively affect consumer
credit performance to the extent that consumers are less able to service
their debts. Sustained low growth, inflationary pressures or
recessionary conditions could diminish customer demand for the
products and services offered by JPMorgan Chase’s consumer
businesses. These conditions could also increase the cost to provide
those products and services. Adverse economic conditions could also
lead to an increase in delinquencies and higher net charge-offs, which
can reduce JPMorgan Chase’s earnings. These consequences could be
significantly worse in certain geographies where high levels of
unemployment have resulted from declining industrial or
manufacturing activity,
 11
Part I
or where high levels of consumer debt, such as outstanding student
loans, impair the ability of customers to pay their other consumer loan
obligations.
JPMorgan Chase’s earnings from its consumer businesses could also
be adversely affected by governmental policies and actions that affect
consumers, including:
•policies and initiatives relating to medical insurance, education,
immigration and employment status
•the inability to reach political consensus to keep the U.S.
government open and funded, and
•policies aimed at the economy more broadly, such as
infrastructure spending and global trade, which could result in
higher inflation or reductions in consumer disposable income.
In addition, governmental proposals to permit student loan obligations
to be discharged in bankruptcy proceedings could, if enacted into law,
encourage certain of JPMorgan Chase’s customers to declare personal
bankruptcy and thereby trigger defaults and charge-offs of credit card
and other consumer loans extended to those customers.
Unfavorable market and economic conditions can have an adverse
effect on JPMorgan Chase’s wholesale businesses.
In JPMorgan Chase’s wholesale businesses, market and economic
factors can affect the volume of transactions that JPMorgan Chase
executes for its clients or for which it advises clients, and, therefore,
the revenue that JPMorgan Chase receives from those transactions.
These factors can also influence the willingness of other financial
institutions and investors to participate in capital markets transactions
that JPMorgan Chase manages, such as loan syndications or securities
underwritings. Furthermore, if a significant and sustained deterioration
in market conditions were to occur, the profitability of JPMorgan
Chase’s capital markets businesses could be reduced to the extent that
those businesses:
•earn less fee revenue due to lower transaction volumes, including
when clients are unwilling or unable to refinance their outstanding
debt obligations in unfavorable market conditions
•dispose of portions of credit commitments, such as loan
syndications or securities underwritings, at a loss, or
•hold larger residual positions in credit commitments that cannot be
sold at favorable prices.
An adverse change in market conditions in particular segments of the
economy, such as a sudden and severe downturn in oil and gas prices
or an increase in commodity prices, could have a material adverse
effect on clients of JPMorgan Chase whose operations or financial
condition are directly or indirectly dependent on the health or stability
of those market segments, as well as clients that are engaged in related
businesses. JPMorgan Chase could incur losses on its loans and other
credit commitments to clients that operate in, or are dependent on, any
sector of the economy that is under stress. The fees that JPMorgan Chase earns from managing client assets or
holding assets under custody for clients could be diminished by
declining asset values or other adverse macroeconomic conditions. For
example, higher interest rates or a downturn in financial markets could
affect the valuations of client assets that JPMorgan Chase manages or
holds under custody, which, in turn, could affect JPMorgan Chase’s
revenue from fees that are based on the amount of assets under
management or custody. Similarly, adverse macroeconomic or market
conditions could prompt outflows from JPMorgan Chase funds or
accounts, or cause clients to invest in products that generate lower
revenue. Substantial and unexpected withdrawals from a JPMorgan
Chase fund can also hamper the investment performance of the fund,
particularly if the outflows create the need for the fund to dispose of
fund assets at disadvantageous times or prices, and could lead to
further withdrawals based on the weaker investment performance.
An economic downturn that results in lower consumer and business
spending could also have a negative impact on certain of JPMorgan
Chase’s wholesale clients, and thereby diminish JPMorgan Chase’s
earnings from its wholesale operations. For example, the businesses of
certain of JPMorgan Chase’s wholesale clients are dependent on
consistent streams of rental income from commercial real estate
properties which are owned or being built by those clients. Severe and
sustained adverse economic conditions could reduce the rental cash
flows that owners or developers receive from those properties which,
in turn, could depress the values of the properties and impair the ability
of borrowers to service or refinance their commercial real estate loans.
These consequences could result in JPMorgan Chase experiencing
higher delinquencies, defaults and write-offs within its commercial real
estate loan portfolio and incurring higher costs for servicing a larger
volume of delinquent loans in that portfolio, thereby reducing
JPMorgan Chase’s earnings from its wholesale businesses.
JPMorgan Chase’s investment securities portfolio and market-
making positions can suffer losses due to adverse economic,
market and political events and conditions.
JPMorgan Chase generally maintains positions in various fixed income
instruments in its investment securities portfolio, and positions in
various fixed income, currency, commodity, credit and equity
instruments as part of its market-making activities. Market-making
positions are intended to facilitate demand from JPMorgan Chase’s
clients for these instruments and to provide liquidity for clients. The
value of the positions that JPMorgan Chase holds can be significantly
affected by factors such as:
•JPMorgan Chase’s ability to effectively hedge market and other
risks on its positions
•changes in the levels and volatility of interest rates, credit spreads,
and market prices for currencies, equities and commodities, and
the duration of any changes in levels or volatility, and
12  
•the availability of liquidity in the capital markets.
All of these are affected by global economic, market and political
events and conditions, as well as regulatory restrictions on market-
making activities.
JPMorgan Chase’s investment securities portfolio and market-making
businesses can also suffer losses due to unanticipated market events,
including:
•severe declines in asset values
•unexpected credit events
•unforeseen events or conditions that may cause previously
uncorrelated factors to become correlated (and vice versa), or
•other market risks that may not have been appropriately taken into
account in the development, structuring or pricing of a financial
instrument.
If JPMorgan Chase experiences significant losses in its investment
securities portfolio or from market-making activities, this could reduce
JPMorgan Chase’s profitability and its liquidity and capital levels, and
thereby constrain the growth of its businesses.
Changes in interest rates and credit spreads can adversely affect
certain of JPMorgan Chase’s revenue and income streams.
JPMorgan Chase can generally be expected to earn higher net interest
income when interest rates are increasing. However, higher interest
rates can also lead to:
•fewer originations of commercial and residential real estate loans
•losses on underwriting exposures
•lower returns on JPMorgan Chase’s investment securities portfolio
•the loss of deposits to the extent that JPMorgan Chase makes
incorrect assumptions about depositor behavior
•lower net interest income if central banks introduce interest rate
increases more quickly than anticipated and this results in a
misalignment in the pricing of short-term and long-term
borrowings, and
•less liquidity in the financial markets and higher funding costs.
All of these outcomes could adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s
revenues and its liquidity and capital levels. Higher interest rates can
also negatively affect the payment performance on loans within
JPMorgan Chase’s consumer and wholesale loan portfolios that are
linked to variable interest rates. If borrowers of variable rate loans are
unable to afford higher interest payments, those borrowers may reduce
or stop making payments, thereby causing JPMorgan Chase to incur
losses and increased operational costs related to servicing a higher
volume of delinquent loans. On the other hand, a low interest rate environment may cause:
•net interest margins to be compressed, which could reduce the
amounts that JPMorgan Chase earns on its investment securities
portfolio to the extent that it is unable to reinvest
contemporaneously in higher-yielding instruments, and
•a reduction in the value of JPMorgan Chase’s mortgage servicing
rights (“MSRs”) asset, thereby decreasing revenues.
When credit spreads widen, it becomes more expensive for JPMorgan
Chase to borrow. JPMorgan Chase’s credit spreads may widen or
narrow not only in response to events and circumstances that are
specific to JPMorgan Chase but also as a result of general economic
and geopolitical events and conditions. Changes in JPMorgan Chase’s
credit spreads will affect, positively or negatively, JPMorgan Chase’s
earnings on certain liabilities, such as derivatives, that are recorded at
fair value.
JPMorgan Chase’s results may be materially affected by market
fluctuations and significant changes in the value of financial
instruments.
The value of securities, derivatives and other financial instruments
which JPMorgan Chase owns or in which it makes markets can be
materially affected by market fluctuations. Market volatility, illiquid
market conditions and other disruptions in the financial markets may
make it extremely difficult to value certain financial instruments,
particularly during periods of market displacement. Subsequent
valuations of financial instruments in future periods, in light of factors
then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the value of these
instruments. In addition, at the time of any disposition of these
financial instruments, the price that JPMorgan Chase ultimately
realizes will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that
time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. Any of
these factors could cause a decline in the value of financial instruments
which JPMorgan Chase owns or in which it makes markets, which
may have an adverse effect on JPMorgan Chase’s results of operations.
Under extreme market conditions, hedging and other risk management
strategies may not be as effective at mitigating losses as they would be
under more normal market conditions. Furthermore, under these
conditions, market participants are particularly exposed to trading
strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and
on a large scale. JPMorgan Chase’s risk management and monitoring
processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market
moves. However, severe market events have historically been difficult
to predict and JPMorgan Chase could realize significant losses if
extreme market events were to occur.
 13
Part I
Credit
JPMorgan Chase can be adversely affected by the financial
condition of clients, counterparties, custodians and CCPs.
JPMorgan Chase routinely executes transactions with brokers and
dealers, commercial and investment banks, mutual and hedge funds,
investment managers and other types of financial institutions. Many of
these transactions expose JPMorgan Chase to the credit risk of its
clients and counterparties, and can involve JPMorgan Chase in
disputes and litigation in the event that a client or counterparty
defaults. JPMorgan Chase can also be subject to losses or liability
where a financial institution that it has appointed to provide custodial
services for client assets or funds becomes insolvent as a result of
fraud or the failure to abide by existing laws and obligations, including
under the EU Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
A default by a CCP through which JPMorgan Chase executes contracts
would require JPMorgan Chase to replace those contracts, thereby
increasing its operational costs and potentially resulting in losses.
JPMorgan Chase can also be exposed to losses if a member of a CCP
in which JPMorgan Chase is also a member defaults on its obligations
to the CCP because of requirements that each member of the CCP
absorb a portion of those losses.
Disputes may arise with counterparties to derivatives contracts with
regard to the terms, the settlement procedures or the value of
underlying collateral. The disposition of those disputes could cause
JPMorgan Chase to incur unexpected transaction, operational and legal
costs, or result in credit losses. These consequences can also impair
JPMorgan Chase’s ability to effectively manage its credit risk exposure
from its market activities, or cause harm to JPMorgan Chase’s
reputation.
JPMorgan Chase’s businesses can be harmed by the insolvency of
a significant market participant.
The failure of a significant market participant, such as a major
financial institution or a CCP, or concerns about the creditworthiness
of such a market participant, can have a cascading effect within the
financial markets. JPMorgan Chase’s businesses could be significantly
disrupted by such an event, particularly if it leads to other market
participants incurring significant losses, experiencing liquidity issues
or defaulting. These risks could be magnified in the event of the
default, insolvency or resolution of a major global financial
counterparty, as JPMorgan Chase is likely to have significant
interrelationships with, and credit exposure to, such a counterparty, and
would seek to unwind or hedge positions in securities, derivatives and
other obligations in multiple jurisdictions during a period of
heightened market volatility. JPMorgan Chase’s clearing services business is exposed to the risk
of client or counterparty default.
As part of its clearing services activities, JPMorgan Chase is a member
of several CCPs. In the event that another member of such an
organization defaults on its obligations to the CCP, JPMorgan Chase
may be required to pay a portion of any losses incurred by the CCP as
a result of that default. As a clearing member, JPMorgan Chase is also
exposed to the risk of nonperformance by its clients, which it seeks to
mitigate by requiring clients to provide adequate collateral. JPMorgan
Chase is exposed to intra-day credit risk of its clients in connection
with providing cash management, clearing, custodial and other
transaction services to those clients. If a client for which JPMorgan
Chase provides these services becomes bankrupt or insolvent,
JPMorgan Chase may incur losses, become involved in disputes and
litigation with one or more CCPs, the client’s bankruptcy estate and
other creditors, or be subject to regulatory investigations. All of the
foregoing events can increase JPMorgan Chase’s operational and
litigation costs, and JPMorgan Chase may suffer losses to the extent
that any collateral that it has received is insufficient to cover those
losses. JPMorgan Chase can also be subject to bearing its share of
nondefault losses incurred by a CCP due to a business or operational
failure affecting the CCP, including due to a cyberattack, litigation,
fraud or a systems failure.
JPMorgan Chase may suffer losses if the value of collateral
declines in stressed market conditions.
During periods of market stress or illiquidity, JPMorgan Chase’s credit
risk may be further increased when JPMorgan Chase cannot realize the
fair value of the collateral held by it or when collateral is liquidated at
prices that are not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan,
derivative or other exposure due to it. Furthermore, disputes with
counterparties concerning the valuation of collateral may increase in
times of significant market stress, volatility or illiquidity, and
JPMorgan Chase could suffer losses during these periods if it is unable
to realize the fair value of collateral or to manage declines in the value
of collateral.
JPMorgan Chase could incur significant losses arising from
concentrations of credit and market risk.
JPMorgan Chase is exposed to greater credit and market risk to the
extent that groupings of its clients or counterparties:
•engage in similar or related businesses, or in businesses in related
industries
•do business in the same geographic region, or
•have business profiles, models or strategies that could cause their
ability to meet their obligations to be similarly affected by changes
in economic conditions.
For example, a significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of
JPMorgan Chase’s borrowers or counterparties could lead to concerns
about the creditworthiness of other
14  
borrowers or counterparties in similar, related or dependent industries.
This type of interrelationship could exacerbate JPMorgan Chase’s
credit, liquidity and market risk exposure and potentially cause it to
incur losses, including fair value losses in its market-making
businesses.
Similarly, challenging economic conditions that affect a particular
industry or geographic area could lead to concerns about the credit
quality of JPMorgan Chase’s borrowers or counterparties not only in
that particular industry or geography but in related or dependent
industries, wherever located. These conditions could also heighten
concerns about the ability of customers of JPMorgan Chase’s
consumer businesses who live in those areas or work in those affected
industries or related or dependent industries to meet their obligations to
JPMorgan Chase. JPMorgan Chase regularly monitors various
segments of its credit and market risk exposures to assess the potential
risks of concentration or contagion, but its efforts to diversify or hedge
its exposures against those risks may not be successful.
JPMorgan Chase’s consumer businesses can also be harmed by an
excessive expansion of consumer credit by bank or non-bank
competitors. Heightened competition for certain types of consumer
loans could prompt industry-wide reactions such as significant
reductions in the pricing or margins of those loans or the making of
loans to less-creditworthy borrowers. If large numbers of consumers
subsequently default on their loans, whether due to weak credit
profiles, an economic downturn or other factors, this could impair their
ability to repay obligations owed to JPMorgan Chase and result in
higher charge-offs and other credit-related losses. More broadly,
widespread defaults on consumer debt could lead to recessionary
conditions in the U.S. economy, and JPMorgan Chase’s consumer
businesses may earn lower revenues in such an environment.
Disruptions in the liquidity or transparency of the financial markets
could cause JPMorgan Chase to be unable to sell, syndicate or realize
the value of its positions in various debt instruments, loans, derivatives
and other obligations, and thereby lead to increased risk
concentrations. If JPMorgan Chase is unable to reduce positions
effectively during a market dislocation, this can increase both the
market and credit risks associated with those positions and the level of
risk-weighted assets (“RWA”) that JPMorgan Chase holds on its
balance sheet. These factors could increase JPMorgan Chase’s capital
requirements and funding costs and adversely affect the profitability of
JPMorgan Chase’s businesses.
Liquidity
Liquidity is critical to JPMorgan Chase’s ability to fund and
operate its businesses.
JPMorgan Chase’s liquidity could be impaired at any given time by
factors such as:
•market-wide illiquidity or disruption
•unforeseen cash or capital requirements •inability to sell assets, or to sell assets at favorable times or prices
•default by a CCP or other significant market participant
•unanticipated outflows of cash or collateral
•unexpected loss of consumer deposits caused by changes in
consumer behavior, and
•lack of market or customer confidence in JPMorgan Chase or
financial institutions in general.
A diminution of JPMorgan Chase’s liquidity may be caused by events
over which it has little or no control. For example, during the 2008-
2009 financial crisis, periods of low investor confidence and
significant market illiquidity resulted in higher funding costs for
JPMorgan Chase and limited its access to some of its traditional
sources of liquidity, including securitized debt issuances. There is no
assurance that severe conditions of this type will not occur in the
future.
JPMorgan Chase may need to raise funding from alternative sources if
its access to stable and lower-cost sources of funding, such as deposits
and borrowings from Federal Home Loan Banks, is reduced.
Alternative sources of funding could be more expensive or limited in
availability. JPMorgan Chase’s funding costs could also be negatively
affected by actions that JPMorgan Chase may take in order to:
•satisfy applicable liquidity coverage ratio and net stable funding
ratio requirements
•address obligations under its resolution plan, or
•satisfy regulatory requirements in jurisdictions outside the U.S.
relating to the pre-positioning of liquidity in subsidiaries that are
material legal entities.
More generally, if JPMorgan Chase fails to effectively manage its
liquidity, this could constrain its ability to fund or invest in its
businesses, and thereby adversely affect its results of operations.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. is a holding company and depends on the
cash flows of its subsidiaries to make payments on its outstanding
securities.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. is a holding company that holds the stock of
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and an intermediate holding company,
JPMorgan Chase Holdings LLC (the “IHC”). The IHC in turn holds
the stock of substantially all of JPMorgan Chase’s subsidiaries other
than JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and its subsidiaries. The IHC also
owns other assets and intercompany indebtedness owing to the holding
company.
The holding company is obligated to contribute to the IHC
substantially all the net proceeds received from securities issuances
(including issuances of senior and subordinated debt securities and of
preferred and common stock).
The ability of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the IHC to make
payments to the holding company is also
 15
Part I
limited. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is subject to restrictions on its
dividend distributions, as well as capital adequacy and liquidity
requirements and other regulatory restrictions on its ability to make
payments to the holding company. The IHC is prohibited from paying
dividends or extending credit to the holding company if certain capital
or liquidity “thresholds” are breached or if limits are otherwise
imposed by JPMorgan Chase’s management or Board of Directors.
As a result of these arrangements, the ability of the holding company
to make various payments is dependent on its receiving dividends from
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and dividends and extensions of credit
from the IHC. These limitations could affect the holding company’s
ability to:
•pay interest on its debt securities
•pay dividends on its equity securities
•redeem or repurchase outstanding securities, and
•fulfill its other payment obligations.
These regulatory restrictions and limitations could also result in the
holding company seeking protection under bankruptcy laws at a time
earlier than would have been the case absent the existence of the
capital and liquidity thresholds to which the IHC is subject.
Reductions in JPMorgan Chase’s credit ratings may adversely
affect its liquidity and cost of funding.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and certain of its principal subsidiaries are
rated by credit rating agencies. Rating agencies evaluate both general
and firm-specific and industry-specific factors when determining credit
ratings for a particular financial institution, including:
•expected future profitability
•risk management practices
•legal expenses
•ratings differentials between bank holding companies and their
bank and non-bank subsidiaries
•regulatory developments
•assumptions about government support, and
•economic and geopolitical trends
JPMorgan Chase closely monitors and manages, to the extent that it is
able, factors that could influence its credit ratings. However, there is
no assurance that JPMorgan Chase’s credit ratings will not be lowered
in the future. Furthermore, any such downgrade could occur at times of
broader market instability when JPMorgan Chase’s options for
responding to events may be more limited and general investor
confidence is low.
A reduction in JPMorgan Chase’s credit ratings could curtail JPMorgan
Chase’s business activities and reduce its profitability in a number of
ways, including:
•reducing its access to capital markets •materially increasing its cost of issuing and servicing securities
•triggering additional collateral or funding requirements, and
•decreasing the number of investors and counterparties that are
willing or permitted to do business with or lend to JPMorgan
Chase.
Any rating reduction could also increase the credit spreads charged by
the market for taking credit risk on JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its
subsidiaries. This could, in turn, adversely affect the value of debt and
other obligations of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries.
The regulation, reform and replacement of benchmark rates could
have adverse consequences on JPMorgan Chase’s securities
issuances and its capital markets and investment activities.
Interest rate, equity, foreign exchange rate and other types of indices
which are deemed to be “benchmarks,” including those in widespread
and long-standing use, have been the subject of ongoing international,
national and other regulatory scrutiny and initiatives and proposals for
reform. Some of these reforms are already effective while others are
still to be implemented or are under consideration. These reforms may
cause benchmarks to perform differently than in the past, or to
disappear entirely, or have other consequences which cannot be fully
anticipated.
Any of the benchmark reforms which have been proposed or
implemented, or the general increased regulatory scrutiny of
benchmarks, could also increase the costs and risks of administering or
otherwise participating in the setting of benchmarks and complying
with regulations or requirements relating to benchmarks. Such factors
may have the effect of discouraging market participants from
continuing to administer or contribute to certain benchmarks, trigger
changes in the rules or methodologies used in certain benchmarks or
lead to the disappearance of certain benchmarks.
Any of these developments, and any future initiatives to regulate,
reform or change the administration of benchmarks, could result in
adverse consequences to the return on, value of and market for loans,
mortgages, securities, derivatives and other financial instruments
whose returns are linked to any such benchmark, including those
issued, funded or held by JPMorgan Chase.
Various regulators, industry bodies and other market participants in the
U.S. and other countries are engaged in initiatives to develop,
introduce and encourage the use of alternative rates to replace certain
benchmarks. There is no assurance that these new rates will be
accepted or widely used by market participants, or that the
characteristics of any of these new rates will be similar to, or produce
the economic equivalent of, the benchmarks that they seek to replace.
If a particular benchmark were to be discontinued and an alternative
rate has not been successfully introduced to replace that benchmark,
this could result in widespread
16  
dislocation in the financial markets, engender volatility in the pricing
of securities, derivatives and other instruments, and suppress capital
markets activities, all of which could have adverse effects on
JPMorgan Chase’s results of operations. In addition, the transition of a
particular benchmark to a replacement rate could affect hedge
accounting relationships between financial instruments linked to that
benchmark and any related derivatives, which could adversely affect
JPMorgan Chase’s results.
On July 27, 2017, the Chief Executive of the U.K. Financial Conduct
Authority (the “FCA”), which regulates the London interbank offered
rate (“LIBOR”), announced that the FCA will no longer persuade or
compel banks to submit rates for the calculation of the LIBOR
benchmark after 2021. This announcement indicates that the
continuation of LIBOR on the current basis cannot be guaranteed after
2021, and there is a substantial risk that LIBOR will be discontinued or
modified by 2021. Vast amounts of loans, mortgages, securities,
derivatives and other financial instruments are linked to the LIBOR
benchmark, and any failure by market participants and regulators to
successfully introduce benchmark rates to replace LIBOR and
implement effective transitional arrangements to address the
discontinuation of LIBOR could, as noted above, result in disruption in
the financial markets, suppress capital markets activities and give rise
to litigation claims, all of which could have a negative impact on
JPMorgan Chase’s results of operations and on LIBOR-linked
securities or other instruments which are issued, funded or held by
JPMorgan Chase.
Operational
JPMorgan Chase’s businesses are highly dependent on the
effectiveness of its operational systems and those of other market
participants.
JPMorgan Chase’s businesses rely comprehensively on the ability of
JPMorgan Chase’s financial, accounting, transaction execution, data
processing and other operational systems to process, record, monitor
and report a large number of transactions on a continuous basis, and to
do so accurately, quickly and securely. In addition to proper design,
installation, maintenance and training, the effective functioning of
JPMorgan Chase’s operational systems depends on:
•the quality of the information contained in those systems, as
inaccurate, outdated or corrupted data can significantly
compromise the functionality or reliability of a particular system
and other systems to which it transmits or from which it receives
information, and
•JPMorgan Chase’s ability to appropriately maintain and upgrade
its systems on a regular basis, and to ensure that any changes
introduced to its systems are managed carefully to ensure security
and operational continuity and adhere to all applicable legal and
regulatory requirements.
JPMorgan Chase also depends on its ability to access and use the
operational systems of its vendors, custodians and other market participants, including clearing and payment systems,
CCPs, securities exchanges and data processing, security and
technology companies.
The ineffectiveness, failure or other disruption of operational systems
upon which JPMorgan Chase depends, including due to a systems
malfunction, cyberbreach or other systems failure, could result in
unfavorable ripple effects in the financial markets and for JPMorgan
Chase and its clients and customers, including:
•delays or other disruptions in providing information, services and
liquidity to clients and customers
•the inability to settle transactions or obtain access to funds and
other assets
•the possibility that funds transfers, capital markets trades or other
transactions are executed erroneously, illegally or with unintended
consequences
•financial losses, including due to loss-sharing requirements of
CCPs, payment systems or other market infrastructures, or as
possible restitution to clients and customers
•higher operational costs associated with replacing services
provided by a system that is unavailable
•client or customer dissatisfaction with JPMorgan Chase’s products
and services
•loss of confidence in the ability of JPMorgan Chase, or financial
institutions generally, to protect against and withstand operational
disruptions, or
•harm to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation.
As the speed, frequency, volume, interconnectivity and complexity of
transactions continues to increase, it becomes more challenging to
effectively maintain and upgrade JPMorgan Chase’s operational
systems and infrastructure, especially due to the heightened risks that:
•errors made by JPMorgan Chase or another market participant,
whether inadvertent or malicious, cause widespread system
disruption
•isolated or seemingly insignificant errors in operational systems
compound, or migrate to other systems over time, to become
larger issues
•failures in synchronization or encryption software, or degraded
performance of microprocessors due to design flaws, could cause
disruptions in operational systems, or the inability of systems to
communicate with each other, and
•third parties attempt to block the use of key technology solutions
by claiming that the use infringes on their intellectual property
rights.
If JPMorgan Chase’s operational systems, or those of external parties
on which JPMorgan Chase’s businesses depend, are unable to meet the
demanding standards of JPMorgan Chase’s businesses and operations,
or if they fail
 17
Part I
or have other significant shortcomings, JPMorgan Chase could be
materially and adversely affected.
JPMorgan Chase can be negatively affected if it fails to identify
and address operational risks associated with the introduction of
or changes to products, services and delivery platforms.
When JPMorgan Chase launches a new product or service, introduces
a new platform for the delivery or distribution of products or services
(including mobile connectivity, electronic trading and cloud
computing), or makes changes to an existing product, service or
delivery platform, it may not fully appreciate or identify new
operational risks that may arise from those changes, or may fail to
implement adequate controls to mitigate the risks associated with those
changes. For example, ineffective controls over newly-developed
electronic trading platforms could inadvertently permit the rapid build-
up of unexpected, abnormal or unusually large positions in securities
or other financial instruments, or fail to anticipate or address a
downturn in market liquidity which leads to sudden or severe changes
in asset prices. Any significant failure to identify and mitigate
operational risks associated with new products or services or new
platforms for delivering or distributing products or services, or changes
to existing products, services or delivery platforms, could diminish
JPMorgan Chase’s ability to operate one or more of its businesses or
result in:
•potential liability to clients, counterparties and customers
•increased operating expenses
•higher litigation costs, including regulatory fines, penalties and
other sanctions
•damage to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation
•impairment of JPMorgan Chase’s liquidity
•regulatory intervention, or
•weaker competitive standing.
Any of the foregoing consequences could materially and adversely
affect JPMorgan Chase’s businesses and results of operations.
JPMorgan Chase’s connections to external operational systems
expose it to greater operational risks.
External operational systems with which JPMorgan is connected,
whether directly or indirectly, can be sources of operational risk to
JPMorgan Chase. JPMorgan Chase may be exposed not only to a
systems failure that may be experienced by a vendor or market
infrastructure with which JPMorgan Chase is directly connected, but
also to a systems breakdown of another party to which such a vendor
or infrastructure is connected. Similarly, retailers, data aggregators and
other external parties with which JPMorgan Chase’s customers do
business can increase JPMorgan Chase’s operational risk. This is
particularly the case where activities of customers or those parties are
beyond JPMorgan Chase’s security and control systems, including through the use of the internet, personal smart phones and
other mobile devices or services.
If an external party obtains access to customer account data on
JPMorgan Chase’s systems, and that party experiences a cyberbreach
of its own systems or misappropriates that data, this could result in a
variety of negative outcomes for JPMorgan Chase and its clients and
customers, including:
•heightened risk that external parties will be able to execute
fraudulent transactions using JPMorgan Chase’s systems
•losses from fraudulent transactions, as well as potential liability
for losses that exceed thresholds established in consumer
protection laws and regulations
•increased operational costs to remediate the consequences of the
external party’s security breach, and
•harm to reputation arising from the perception that JPMorgan
Chase’s systems may not be secure.
As JPMorgan Chase’s interconnectivity with clients, customers and
other external parties expands, JPMorgan Chase increasingly faces the
risk of operational failure with respect to the systems of those parties.
Security breaches affecting JPMorgan Chase’s clients or customers, or
systems breakdowns or failures, security breaches or human error or
misconduct affecting other external parties, may require JPMorgan
Chase to take steps to protect the integrity of its own operational
systems or to safeguard confidential information, including restricting
the access of customers to their accounts. These actions can increase
JPMorgan Chase’s operational costs and potentially diminish customer
satisfaction.
Furthermore, the widespread and expanding interconnectivity among
financial institutions, central agents, CCPs, payment processors,
securities exchanges, clearing houses and other financial market
infrastructures increases the risk that an operational failure at one
institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that
could materially affect JPMorgan Chase’s ability to conduct business.
JPMorgan Chase’s operations depend on the competence and
integrity of its employees and those of external parties.
JPMorgan Chase’s ability to operate its businesses efficiently and
profitably, and to offer products and services that meet the expectations
of its clients and customers, is highly dependent on the competence
and trustworthiness of its employees, as well as employees of other
parties on which JPMorgan Chase’s operations rely, including vendors,
custodians and financial markets infrastructures. JPMorgan Chase’s
businesses could be materially and adversely affected by a significant
operational breakdown or failure, theft, fraud or other unlawful
conduct, or other negative outcomes caused by human error or
misconduct by an
18  
employee of JPMorgan Chase or of another party on which JPMorgan
Chase’s operations depend.
JPMorgan Chase faces substantial legal and operational risks in
safeguarding personal information.
JPMorgan Chase’s businesses are subject to complex and evolving
laws and regulations, both within and outside the U.S., governing the
privacy and protection of personal information of individuals. The
protected parties can include:
•JPMorgan Chase’s clients and customers, and prospective clients
and customers
•clients and customers of JPMorgan Chase’s clients and customers
•employees and prospective employees, and
•employees of JPMorgan Chase’s vendors, counterparties and other
external parties.
Ensuring that JPMorgan Chase’s collection, use, transfer and storage of
personal information comply with all applicable laws and regulations
in all relevant jurisdictions, including where the laws of different
jurisdictions are in conflict, can:
•increase JPMorgan Chase’s compliance and operating costs
•hinder the development of new products or services, curtail the
offering of existing products or services, or affect how products
and services are offered to clients and customers
•demand significant oversight by JPMorgan Chase’s management,
and
•require JPMorgan Chase to structure its businesses, operations and
systems in less efficient ways.
Furthermore, JPMorgan Chase cannot ensure that all of its clients and
customers, vendors, counterparties and other external parties have
appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the
information exchanged between them and JPMorgan Chase,
particularly where information is transmitted by electronic means.
JPMorgan Chase could be exposed to litigation or regulatory fines,
penalties or other sanctions if personal, confidential or proprietary
information of clients, customers, employees or others were to be
mishandled or misused, such as situations where such information is:
•erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the
information, or
•intercepted or otherwise compromised by third parties.
Concerns regarding the effectiveness of JPMorgan Chase’s measures
to safeguard personal information, or even the perception that those
measures are inadequate, could cause JPMorgan Chase to lose existing
or potential clients and customers, and thereby reduce JPMorgan
Chase’s revenues. Furthermore, any failure or perceived failure by
JPMorgan Chase to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws and regulations may subject it to inquiries, examinations and
investigations that could result in requirements to modify or cease
certain operations or practices, significant liabilities or regulatory
fines, penalties or other sanctions. Any of these could damage
JPMorgan Chase’s reputation and otherwise adversely affect its
businesses.
Recent, well-publicized allegations involving the misuse or
inappropriate sharing of personal information have led to expanded
governmental scrutiny of practices relating to the safeguarding of
personal information and the use or sharing of personal data by
companies in the U.S. and other countries. That scrutiny has in some
cases resulted in, and could in the future lead to, the adoption of
stricter laws and regulations relating to the use and sharing of personal
information. These types of laws and regulations could prohibit or
significantly restrict financial services firms such as JPMorgan Chase
from sharing information among affiliates or with third parties such as
vendors, and thereby increase compliance costs, or could restrict
JPMorgan Chase’s use of personal data when developing or offering
products or services to customers. These restrictions could inhibit
JPMorgan Chase’s development or marketing of certain products or
services, or increase the costs of offering them to customers.
A successful cyberattack against JPMorgan Chase could cause
significant harm to JPMorgan Chase or its clients and customers.
JPMorgan Chase experiences numerous cyberattacks on its computer
systems, software, networks and other technology assets on a daily
basis. These cyberattacks can take many forms, but a common
objective of many of these attacks is to introduce computer viruses or
malware into JPMorgan Chase’s systems. These viruses or malicious
code are typically designed to:
•obtain unauthorized access to confidential information belonging
to JPMorgan Chase or its clients, customers, counterparties or
employees
•manipulate or destroy data
•disrupt, sabotage or degrade service on JPMorgan Chase’s
systems, or
•steal money.
JPMorgan Chase has also experienced significant distributed denial-of-
service attacks which are intended to disrupt online banking services.
JPMorgan Chase devotes significant resources to maintain and
regularly upgrade its systems to protect them against cyberattacks.
However, JPMorgan Chase has experienced security breaches due to
cyberattacks in the past, and it is inevitable that additional breaches
will occur in the future. Any such breach could result in serious and
harmful consequences for JPMorgan Chase or its clients and
customers.
 19
Part I
A principal reason that JPMorgan Chase cannot provide absolute
security against cyberattacks is that it may not always be possible to
anticipate, detect or recognize threats to JPMorgan Chase’s systems, or
to implement effective preventive measures against all breaches. This
is because:
•the techniques used in cyberattacks change frequently and may not
be recognized until launched
•cyberattacks can originate from a wide variety of sources,
including third parties who are or may be involved in organized
crime or linked to terrorist organizations or hostile countries, or
whose objective is to disrupt the operations of financial
institutions more generally, and
•third parties may seek to gain access to JPMorgan Chase’s systems
either directly or using equipment or security passwords belonging
to employees, customers, third-party service providers or other
users of JPMorgan Chase’s systems.
The risk of a security breach due to a cyberattack could increase in the
future as JPMorgan Chase continues to expand its mobile-payments
and other internet-based product offerings and its internal use of web-
based products and applications.
A successful penetration or circumvention of the security of JPMorgan
Chase’s systems or the systems of a vendor, governmental body or
another market participant could cause serious negative consequences,
including:
•significant disruption of JPMorgan Chase’s operations and those
of its clients, customers and counterparties, including losing
access to operational systems
•misappropriation of confidential information of JPMorgan Chase
or that of its clients, customers, counterparties, employees or
regulators
•damage to computers or systems of JPMorgan Chase and those of
its clients, customers and counterparties
•inability to fully recover and restore data that has been stolen,
manipulated or destroyed, or to prevent systems from processing
fraudulent transactions
•violations by JPMorgan Chase of applicable privacy and other
laws
•financial loss to JPMorgan Chase or to its clients, customers,
counterparties or employees
•loss of confidence in JPMorgan Chase’s cybersecurity measures
•dissatisfaction among JPMorgan Chase’s clients, customers or
counterparties
•significant exposure to litigation and regulatory fines, penalties or
other sanctions, and
•harm to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation.
JPMorgan Chase could also suffer some of the above consequences if a
third party were to misappropriate confidential information obtained by intercepting signals or
communications from mobile devices used by JPMorgan Chase’s
employees.
JPMorgan Chase may not be able to immediately address the
consequences of a security breach due to a cyberattack.
A successful breach of JPMorgan Chase’s computer systems, software,
networks or other technology assets due to a cyberattack could occur
and persist for an extended period of time before being detected due to:
•the breadth of JPMorgan Chase’s operations and the high volume
of transactions that it processes
•the large number of customers, counterparties and third-party
service providers with which JPMorgan Chase does business
•the proliferation and increasing sophistication of cyberattacks, and
•the possibility that a third party, after establishing a foothold on an
internal network without being detected, might obtain access to
other networks and systems.
The extent of a particular cyberattack and the steps that JPMorgan
Chase may need to take to investigate the attack may not be
immediately clear, and it may take a significant amount of time before
such an investigation can be completed and full and reliable
information about the attack is known. While such an investigation is
ongoing, JPMorgan Chase may not necessarily know the full extent of
the harm caused by the cyberattack, and that damage may continue to
spread. Furthermore, it may not be clear how best to contain and
remediate the harm caused by the cyberattack, and certain errors or
actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered
and remediated. Any or all of these factors could further increase the
costs and consequences of a cyberattack.
JPMorgan Chase’s operations, results and reputation could be
harmed by catastrophes or other events.
JPMorgan Chase’s business and operational systems could be seriously
disrupted, and its reputation could be harmed, by events that are
wholly or partially beyond its control, including:
•cyberbreaches or breaches of physical premises, including data
centers
•power, telecommunications or internet outages
•failures of, or loss of access to, operational systems, including
computer systems, servers, networks and other technology assets
•damage to or loss of property or assets of JPMorgan Chase or third
parties, and any consequent injuries, including in connection with
any construction projects undertaken by JPMorgan Chase
•natural disasters or severe weather conditions
20  
•health emergencies or pandemics, or
•events arising from local or larger-scale political events, including
outbreaks of hostilities or terrorist acts.
JPMorgan Chase maintains a firm-wide resiliency and crisis
management program that is intended to ensure the ability to recover
critical business functions and supporting assets, including staff,
technology and facilities, in the event of a business interruption. There
can be no assurance that JPMorgan Chase’s resiliency plans will fully
mitigate all potential business continuity risks to JPMorgan Chase or
its clients and customers. Furthermore, should emergency or
catastrophic events such as severe or abnormal weather conditions
become more chronic, the disruptive effects of those events on
JPMorgan Chase’s business and operations, and on its clients,
customers, counterparties and employees, could become more
significant and long-lasting.
Any significant failure or disruption of JPMorgan Chase’s operations
or operational systems, or any catastrophic event, could:
•hinder JPMorgan Chase’s ability to provide services to its clients
and customers or to transact with its counterparties
•require it to expend significant resources to correct the failure or
disruption
•cause it to incur losses or liabilities, including from loss of
revenue, damage to or loss of property, or injuries
•expose it to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other
sanctions, and
•harm its reputation.
JPMorgan Chase’s risk management framework and procedures
may not be effective in identifying and mitigating every risk to
JPMorgan Chase.
JPMorgan Chase’s risk management framework is intended to mitigate
risk and loss. The framework includes both the “first line of defense,”
consisting of each line of business and Treasury and the Chief
Investment Office, including their aligned Operations, Technology and
Control Management groups, and the “second line of defense,”
consisting of Independent Risk Management. JPMorgan Chase has
established processes and procedures to identify, measure, monitor,
report and analyze the types of risk to which it is subject. However,
there are inherent limitations to risk management strategies because
there may be existing or future risks that JPMorgan Chase has not
appropriately anticipated or identified.
Any inadequacy or lapse in JPMorgan Chase’s risk management
framework, governance structure, procedures and practices, models or
reporting systems could expose it to unexpected losses, and its
financial condition or results of operations could be materially and
adversely affected. In addition, any such inadequacy or lapse could:
•require significant resources to remediate •attract heightened regulatory scrutiny
•expose JPMorgan Chase to regulatory investigations or legal
proceedings
•subject it to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other
sanctions
•harm its reputation, or
•diminish confidence in JPMorgan Chase.
JPMorgan Chase relies on data to assess its various risk
exposures. Any deficiencies in the quality or effectiveness of
JPMorgan Chase’s data gathering and validation processes could result
in ineffective risk management practices. These deficiencies could also
result in inaccurate risk reporting.
JPMorgan Chase establishes allowances for probable credit losses that
are inherent in its credit exposures. It then employs stress testing and
other techniques to determine the capital and liquidity necessary in the
event of adverse economic or market events. These processes are
critical to JPMorgan Chase’s results of operations and financial
condition. They require difficult, subjective and complex judgments,
including forecasts of how economic conditions might impair the
ability of JPMorgan Chase’s borrowers and counterparties to repay
their loans or other obligations. It is possible that JPMorgan Chase will
fail to identify the proper factors or that it will fail to accurately
estimate the impact of factors that it identifies. 
Many of JPMorgan Chase’s risk management strategies and techniques
consider historical market behavior.  These strategies and techniques
are based to some degree on management’s subjective judgment. For
example, many models used by JPMorgan Chase are based on
assumptions regarding historical correlations among prices of various
asset classes or other market indicators. In times of market stress,
including difficult or less liquid market environments, or in the event
of other unforeseen circumstances, previously uncorrelated indicators
may become correlated.  Conversely, previously-correlated indicators
may make unrelated movements at those times. Sudden market
movements and unanticipated or unidentified market or economic
movements could, in some circumstances, limit the effectiveness of
JPMorgan Chase’s risk management strategies, causing it to incur
losses.
JPMorgan Chase could incur significant losses, its capital levels
could be reduced and it could face greater regulatory scrutiny if its
models or estimations prove to be inadequate.
JPMorgan Chase has developed and uses a variety of models and other
analytical and judgment-based estimations to assess and implement
mitigating controls over its market, credit, liquidity, operational and
other risks. These models and estimations are based on a variety of
assumptions and historical trends, and are periodically reviewed and
modified as necessary. The models and estimations that JPMorgan
Chase uses may not be effective in all cases to
 21
Part I
identify, observe and mitigate risk due to a variety of factors, such as:
•reliance on historical trends that may not accurately predict future
events, including assumptions underlying the models and
estimations which predict correlation among certain market
indicators or asset prices
•inherent limitations associated with forecasting uncertain
economic and financial outcomes
•historical trend information may be incomplete, or may not
anticipate severely negative market conditions such as extreme
volatility, dislocation or lack of liquidity
•technology that is introduced to run models or estimations may
not perform as expected, or may not be well understood by the
personnel using the technology
•models and estimations may contain erroneous data, valuations,
formulas or algorithms, and
•review processes may fail to detect flaws in models and
estimations.
Some of the models and other analytical and judgment-based
estimations used by JPMorgan Chase in managing risks are subject to
review by, and require the approval of, JPMorgan Chase’s
regulators. These reviews are required before JPMorgan Chase may
use those models and estimations in connection with calculating
market risk RWA, credit risk RWA and operational risk RWA under
Basel III. If JPMorgan Chase’s models or estimations are not approved
by its regulators, it may be subject to higher capital charges, which
could adversely affect its financial results or limit the ability to expand
its businesses. JPMorgan Chase’s capital actions could also be
constrained if a CCAR submission is not approved by its banking
regulators due to the perceived inadequacy of its models or
estimations.
Enhanced standards for vendor risk management can result in
higher costs and other potential exposures.
JPMorgan Chase must comply with enhanced standards for the
assessment and management of risks associated with doing business
with vendors and other third-party service providers. These
requirements are contained both in bank regulatory regulations and
guidance and in certain consent orders to which JPMorgan Chase has
been subject. JPMorgan Chase incurs significant costs and expenses in
connection with its initiatives to address the risks associated with
oversight of its third party relationships. JPMorgan Chase’s failure to
appropriately assess and manage third-party relationships, especially
those involving significant banking functions, shared services or other
critical activities, could materially adversely affect JPMorgan Chase.
Specifically, any such failure could result in:
•potential liability to clients and customers
•regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions
•increased operational costs, or •harm to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation.
Requirements for physical settlement and delivery in trading
agreements could expose JPMorgan Chase to operational and
other risks.
Certain of JPMorgan Chase’s markets transactions require the physical
settlement by delivery of securities or other obligations that JPMorgan
Chase does not own. If JPMorgan Chase is unable to obtain the
obligations within the required timeframe, JPMorgan Chase could
forfeit payments otherwise due. Failures could also result in settlement
delays, which could damage JPMorgan Chase’s reputation and ability
to transact business. Failure to timely settle and confirm transactions
could also subject JPMorgan Chase to heightened credit and
operational risk, and losses in the event of a default.
JPMorgan Chase could incur unexpected losses if estimates and
judgments underlying its financial statements are incorrect.
Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”),
JPMorgan Chase is required to use estimates and apply judgments in
preparing its financial statements, including in determining allowances
for credit losses and reserves related to litigation. Certain financial
instruments require a determination of their fair value in order to
prepare JPMorgan Chase’s financial statements, including:
•trading assets and liabilities
•instruments in the investment securities portfolio
•certain loans
•MSRs
•structured notes, and
•certain repurchase and resale agreements.
Where quoted market prices are not available for these types of
financial instruments, JPMorgan Chase may make fair value
determinations based on internally developed models or other means
which ultimately rely to some degree on management estimates and
judgment. Sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain
loans and securities may make it more difficult to value certain
financial instruments, which could lead to valuations being
subsequently changed or adjusted. If estimates or judgments
underlying JPMorgan Chase’s financial statements prove to have been
incorrect, JPMorgan Chase may experience material losses.
Lapses in controls over disclosure or financial reporting could
materially affect JPMorgan Chase’s profitability or reputation.
There can be no assurance that JPMorgan Chase’s disclosure controls
and procedures will be effective in every circumstance, or that a
material weakness or significant deficiency in internal control over
financial reporting will not occur. Any such lapses or deficiencies
could:
22  
•materially and adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s business and
results of operations or financial condition
•restrict its ability to access the capital markets
•require it to expend significant resources to correct the lapses or
deficiencies
•expose it to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other
sanctions
•harm its reputation, or
•otherwise diminish investor confidence in JPMorgan Chase.
JPMorgan Chase could be adversely affected by changes in
accounting standards or policies.
The preparation of JPMorgan Chase’s financial statements is based on
accounting standards established by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well
as more detailed accounting policies established by JPMorgan Chase’s
management. From time to time these accounting standards or
accounting policies may change, and in some cases these changes
could have a material effect on JPMorgan Chase’s financial statements
and may adversely affect its financial results or investor perceptions of
those results.
For example, on January 1, 2020, JPMorgan Chase and other U.S.
companies will be required to implement a new accounting standard,
commonly referred to as the Current Expected Credit Losses
(“CECL”) framework, which will require earlier recognition of
expected credit losses on loans and certain other instruments, replacing
the incurred loss model that is currently in use. JPMorgan Chase
expects that under CECL, it will need to, among other things, increase
the allowance for credit losses related to its loans and other lending-
related commitments, which may have a negative impact on its capital
levels.
This new accounting standard may result in greater volatility of
JPMorgan Chase’s earnings and capital levels over economic cycles
and could potentially affect JPMorgan Chase’s capital distribution
plans, depending upon final guidance from the regulators. In addition,
JPMorgan Chase could be adversely impacted by associated changes in
the competitive environment in which it operates, including changes in
the availability or pricing of loan products, particularly during periods
of economic stress, as well as changes related to non-U.S. financial
institutions or other competitors that are not subject to this new
accounting standard. Strategic
If JPMorgan Chase’s management fails to develop and execute
effective business strategies, and to anticipate changes affecting
those strategies, JPMorgan Chase’s competitive standing and
results could suffer.
JPMorgan Chase’s business strategies significantly affect its
competitive standing and results of operations. These strategies relate
to:
•the products and services that JPMorgan Chase offers
•the geographies in which it operates
•the types of clients and customers that it serves
•the counterparties with which it does business, and
•the methods and distribution channels by which it offers products
and services.
If management makes choices about these strategies and goals that
prove to be incorrect, do not accurately assess the competitive
landscape and industry trends, or fail to address changing regulatory
and market environments, then the franchise values and growth
prospects of JPMorgan Chase’s businesses may suffer and its earnings
could decline.
JPMorgan Chase’s growth and prospects also depend on management’s
ability to develop and execute effective business plans to address these
strategic priorities, both in the near term and over longer time
horizons. Management’s effectiveness in this regard will affect
JPMorgan Chase’s ability to develop and enhance its resources, control
expenses and return capital to shareholders. Each of these objectives
could be adversely affected by any failure on the part of management
to:
•devise effective business plans and strategies
•effectively implement business decisions, including minimizing
bureaucratic processes
•institute controls that appropriately address the risks associated
with business activities and any changes in those activities
•offer products and services that are appropriately priced, meet the
changing expectations of clients and customers and are delivered
in ways that enhance client and customer satisfaction
•allocate capital in a manner that promotes long-term stability to
enable JPMorgan Chase to build and invest in market-leading
businesses, even in a highly stressed environment
•allocate capital appropriately due to imprecise modeling or
subjective judgments made in connection with those allocations
•adequately respond to regulatory requirements
•appropriately address shareholder concerns
 23
Part I
•react quickly to changes in market conditions or market structures,
or
•develop and enhance the operational, technology, risk, financial
and managerial resources necessary to grow and manage
JPMorgan Chase’s businesses.
Additionally, JPMorgan Chase’s Board of Directors plays an important
role in exercising appropriate oversight of management’s strategic
decisions, and a failure by the Board to perform this function could
also impair JPMorgan Chase’s results of operations.
Conduct
Conduct failure by JPMorgan Chase employees can harm clients
and customers, impact market integrity, damage JPMorgan
Chase’s reputation and trigger litigation and regulatory action.
JPMorgan Chase’s employees interact with clients, customers and
counterparties, and with each other, every day. All employees are
expected to demonstrate values and exhibit the behaviors that are an
integral part of JPMorgan Chase’s How We Do Business Principles,
including JPMorgan Chase’s commitment to “do first class business in
a first class way.” JPMorgan Chase endeavors to embed conduct risk
management throughout an employee’s life cycle, including recruiting,
onboarding, training and development, and performance
management. Conduct risk management is also an integral component
of JPMorgan Chase’s promotion and compensation processes.
Notwithstanding these expectations, policies and practices, certain
employees have in the past engaged in improper or illegal conduct, and
these instances of misconduct have resulted in litigation as well as
resolutions of governmental investigations or enforcement actions
involving consent orders, deferred prosecution agreements, non-
prosecution agreements and other civil or criminal sanctions. There is
no assurance that further inappropriate or unlawful actions by
employees will not occur or that any such actions will always be
detected, deterred or prevented.
JPMorgan Chase’s reputation could be harmed, and collateral
consequences could result, from a failure by one or more employees to
act consistently with JPMorgan Chase’s expectations, policies and
practices, including by acting in ways that harm clients, customers,
other market participants or other employees. Some examples of this
include:
•improperly selling and marketing JPMorgan Chase’s products or
services
•engaging in insider trading, market manipulation or unauthorized
trading
•facilitating illegal or aggressive tax-motivated transactions, or
transactions designed to circumvent economic sanction programs
•failing to fulfill fiduciary obligations or other duties owed to
clients or customers •violating anti-trust or anti-competition laws by colluding with
other market participants to manipulate markets, prices or indices
•engaging in discriminatory behavior or harassment
•making risk decisions in ways that subordinate JPMorgan Chase’s
risk appetite to employee compensation objectives, and
•misappropriating property, confidential or proprietary information,
or technology assets belonging to JPMorgan Chase, its clients and
customers or third parties.
The consequences of any failure by employees to act consistently with
JPMorgan Chase’s expectations, policies or practices could include
litigation, or regulatory or other governmental investigations or
enforcement actions. Any of these proceedings or actions could result
in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other sanctions, or lead
to:
•financial losses
•increased operational and compliance costs
•greater regulatory scrutiny
•regulatory actions that require JPMorgan Chase to restructure,
curtail or cease certain of its activities
•the need for significant oversight by JPMorgan Chase’s
management
loss of clients or customers, and
•harm to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation.
Reputation
Damage to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation could harm its
businesses.
Maintaining trust in JPMorgan Chase is critical to its ability to attract
and retain clients, customers, investors and employees. Damage to
JPMorgan Chase’s reputation can therefore cause significant harm to
JPMorgan Chase’s business and prospects. Harm to JPMorgan Chase’s
reputation can arise from numerous sources, including:
•employee misconduct, including discriminatory behavior or
harassment
•security breaches, including cyberattacks
•failure to safeguard client or customer information
•not appropriately managing social and environmental risk issues
associated with its business activities or those of its clients
•compliance or operational failures
•litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions, and
•regulatory investigations or enforcement actions, or resolutions of
these matters.
24  
JPMorgan Chase’s reputation could also be harmed by the failure or
perceived failure of certain third parties to comply with laws or
regulations, including companies in which JPMorgan Chase has made
principal investments, parties to joint ventures with JPMorgan Chase,
and vendors and other third parties with which JPMorgan Chase does
business.
JPMorgan Chase’s reputation or prospects may be significantly
damaged by adverse publicity or negative information regarding
JPMorgan Chase, whether or not true, that may be posted on social
media, non-mainstream news services or other parts of the internet,
and this risk can be magnified by the speed and pervasiveness with
which information is disseminated through those channels.
Social and environmental activists are increasingly targeting financial
services firms such as JPMorgan Chase with public criticism for their
relationships with clients that are engaged in certain sensitive
industries, including businesses whose products are or are perceived to
be harmful to the health of consumers, or whose activities negatively
affect or are perceived to negatively affect the environment, workers’
rights or communities. Activists have also engaged in public protests at
JPMorgan Chase’s headquarters and other properties. Activist criticism
of JPMorgan Chase’s relationships with clients in sensitive industries
could potentially engender dissatisfaction among clients, customers,
investors and employees with how JPMorgan Chase addresses social
and environmental concerns in its business activities. Alternatively,
yielding to activism targeted at certain sensitive industries could
damage JPMorgan Chase’s relationships with clients and customers,
and with governmental bodies in jurisdictions in which JPMorgan
Chase does business, whose views are not aligned with those of social
and environmental activists. In either case, the resulting harm to
JPMorgan Chase’s reputation could:
•cause certain clients and customers to cease doing business with
JPMorgan Chase
•impair JPMorgan Chase’s ability to attract new clients and
customers, or to expand its relationships with existing clients and
customers
•diminish JPMorgan Chase’s ability to hire or retain employees, or
•prompt JPMorgan Chase to cease doing business with certain
clients.
Any of the above factors could negatively affect JPMorgan Chase’s
results of operations and its ability to maintain its competitive
standing.
Actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain
members of or individuals in the industry can also affect JPMorgan
Chase’s reputation. For example, concerns that consumers have been
treated unfairly by a financial institution, or that a financial institution
has acted inappropriately with respect to the methods used to offer
products to customers, can damage the reputation of the industry as a
whole. If JPMorgan Chase is perceived to have engaged in these types of behaviors, the measures needed to address
the associated reputational issues could increase JPMorgan Chase’s
operational and compliance costs and negatively affect its earnings.
Failure to effectively manage potential conflicts of interest can
result in litigation and enforcement actions, as well as damage
JPMorgan Chase’s reputation.
JPMorgan Chase’s ability to manage potential conflicts of interest has
become increasingly complex as its business activities encompass
more transactions, obligations and interests with and among JPMorgan
Chase’s clients and customers. JPMorgan Chase can become subject to
litigation and enforcement actions, and its reputation can be damaged,
by the failure or perceived failure to:
•adequately address or appropriately disclose conflicts of interest
•deliver appropriate standards of service and quality
•treat clients and customers with the appropriate standard of care
•use client and customer data responsibly and in a manner that
meets legal requirements and regulatory expectations
•provide fiduciary products or services in accordance with the
applicable legal and regulatory standards, or
•handle or use confidential information of customers or clients
appropriately or in compliance with applicable data protection and
privacy laws and regulations.
In the future, a failure or perceived failure to appropriately address
conflicts of interest or fiduciary obligations could result in customer
dissatisfaction, litigation and regulatory fines, penalties or other
sanctions, and heightened regulatory scrutiny and enforcement actions,
all of which can lead to lost revenue and higher operating costs and
cause serious harm to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation.
Country
Adverse economic and political developments in a country or
region, or globally, can have a negative impact on JPMorgan
Chase’s businesses.
JPMorgan Chase’s businesses and earnings can be affected by the
monetary, fiscal and other policies adopted by regulatory authorities
and agencies in the countries in which JPMorgan Chase operates.
Changes in fiscal policies by central banks or regulatory authorities,
and the manner in which those policies are executed, are beyond
JPMorgan Chase’s control and may be difficult to predict.
Consequently, unanticipated changes in these policies or the ways in
which they are implemented could have a negative impact on
JPMorgan Chase’s businesses and results of operations.
Some countries or regions in which JPMorgan Chase operates or
invests, or in which JPMorgan Chase may do business in the future,
have in the past experienced severe
 25
Part I
economic disruptions particular to those countries or regions. Concerns
regarding the fiscal condition of one or more countries, or the
possibility that a particular country may decide to depart from a trade,
monetary or political pact, can result in a deterioration of economic
and market conditions within the affected countries or regions,
including:
•slowing growth rates, rising inflation or recessionary economic
conditions
•a contraction of available credit
•diminished investor and consumer confidence, including loss of
confidence in local banking systems
•increased market volatility
•reduced commercial activity among trading partners, or
•the potential for currency redenomination or the dissolution of a
political or economic alliance or treaty.
Any or all of these factors could have a negative impact on JPMorgan
Chase’s business and results of operations in the affected country or
region.
These developments can also lead to a contagion which causes similar
conditions to arise in other countries in the same region or beyond.
Furthermore, governments in particular countries or regions in which
JPMorgan Chase or its clients do business may choose to adopt
protectionist economic or trade policies in response to concerns about
domestic economic conditions or as countermeasures to policies or
actions taken by other countries or regions. Any or all of these
developments could lead to diminished cross-border trade and
financing activity within that country or region, all of which could
negatively affect JPMorgan Chase’s business and earnings in those
jurisdictions and increase its operational costs. If JPMorgan Chase
takes steps to reduce its market and credit risk exposure within a
particular country or region that is experiencing economic or political
disruption, it may incur losses that are higher than expected because it
will be disposing of assets when market conditions are likely to be
highly unfavorable.
An outbreak of hostilities between countries or within a country or
region could have a material adverse effect on the global economy
and on JPMorgan Chase’s businesses within the affected region or
globally.
Aggressive actions by hostile governments or groups, including armed
conflict or intensified cyberattacks, could expand in unpredictable
ways by drawing in other countries or escalating into full-scale war
with potentially catastrophic consequences, particularly if one or more
of the combatants possess nuclear weapons. Depending on the scope of
the conflict, the hostilities could result in:
•worldwide economic disruption
•heightened volatility in financial markets •severe declines in asset values, accompanied by widespread sell-
offs of investments
•substantial depreciation of local currencies, potentially leading to
defaults by borrowers and counterparties in the affected region
•disruption of global trade, and
•diminished consumer, business and investor confidence.
Any of the above consequences could have significant negative effects
on JPMorgan Chase’s operations and earnings, both in the countries or
region directly affected by the hostilities or globally. Further, if the
U.S. were to become directly involved in such a conflict, this could
lead to a curtailment of any operations that JPMorgan Chase may have
in the affected countries or region, as well as in any nation that is
aligned against the U.S. in the hostilities. JPMorgan Chase could also
experience more numerous and aggressive cyberattacks launched by or
under the sponsorship of one or more of the adversaries in such a
conflict.
JPMorgan Chase’s business activities with governmental entities
can pose an enhanced risk of loss.
Several of JPMorgan Chase’s businesses engage in transactions with,
or trade in obligations of, governmental entities, including national,
state, provincial, municipal and local authorities, both within and
outside the U.S. These activities can expose JPMorgan Chase to
enhanced sovereign, credit-related, operational and reputation risks,
including the risks that a governmental entity may:
•default on or restructure its obligations
•claim that actions taken by government officials were beyond the
legal authority of those officials, or
•repudiate transactions authorized by a previous incumbent
government.
Any or all of these actions could adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s
financial condition and results of operations and could hurt its
reputation, particularly if JPMorgan Chase pursues claims against a
government obligor in a jurisdiction in which it has significant
business relationships with clients or customers.
JPMorgan Chase’s business and revenues in emerging markets
can be hampered by local economic, political, regulatory and social
factors.
Some of the countries in which JPMorgan Chase conducts business
have economies or markets that are less developed and more volatile,
and may have legal and regulatory regimes that are less established or
predictable, than the U.S. and other developed markets in which
JPMorgan Chase operates. Some of these countries have in the past
experienced severe economic disruptions, including:
•extreme currency fluctuations
26  
•high inflation
•low or negative growth, and
•defaults or potential defaults on sovereign debt.
The governments in these countries have sometimes reacted to these
developments by imposing restrictive policies that adversely affect the
local and regional business environment, including:
•price, capital or exchange controls, including imposition of
punitive transfer and convertibility restrictions
•expropriation or nationalization of assets or confiscation of
property, including intellectual property, and
•changes in laws and regulations.
The impact of these actions could be accentuated in trading markets
that are smaller, less liquid and more volatile than more-developed
markets. These types of government actions can negatively affect
JPMorgan Chase’s operations in the relevant country, either directly or
by suppressing the business activities of local clients or multi-national
clients that conduct business in the jurisdiction. For example, some or
all of these governmental actions can result in funds belonging to
JPMorgan Chase, or that it places with a local custodian on behalf of a
client, being effectively trapped in a country. In addition to the ultimate
risk of losing the funds entirely, JPMorgan Chase could be exposed for
an extended period of time to the credit risk of a local custodian that is
now operating in a deteriorating domestic economy.
In addition, emerging markets countries, as well as certain more
developed countries, have been susceptible to unfavorable social
developments arising from poor economic conditions and related
governmental actions, including:
•social unrest
•general strikes and demonstrations
•crime and corruption
•security and personal safety issues
•outbreaks of hostilities
•overthrow of incumbent governments
•terrorist attacks, and
•other forms of internal discord.
These economic, political, regulatory and social developments have in
the past resulted in, and in the future could lead to, conditions that can
adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s operations in those countries and
impair the revenues, growth and profitability of those operations. In
addition, any of these events or circumstances in one country can
affect JPMorgan Chase’s operations and investments in another
country or countries, including in the U.S. Competition
The financial services industry is highly competitive, and
JPMorgan Chase’s results of operations will suffer if it is not a
strong, effective and forward-looking competitor.
JPMorgan Chase operates in a highly competitive environment and
expects that competition in the U.S. and global financial services
industry will continue to be intense. Competitors include:
•other banks and financial institutions
•trading, advisory and investment management firms
•finance companies and technology companies, and
•other nonbank firms that are engaged in providing similar
products and services.
JPMorgan Chase cannot provide assurance that the significant
competition in the financial services industry will not materially and
adversely affect its future results of operations.
New competitors in the financial services industry continue to emerge.
For example, technological advances and the growth of e-commerce
have made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer products
and services that traditionally were banking products. These advances
have also allowed financial institutions and other companies to provide
electronic and internet-based financial solutions, including electronic
securities trading, payments processing and online automated
algorithmic-based investment advice. Furthermore, both financial
institutions and their non-banking competitors face the risk that
payments processing and other services could be significantly
disrupted by technologies, such as cryptocurrencies, that require no
intermediation. New technologies have required and could require
JPMorgan Chase to spend more to modify or adapt its products to
attract and retain clients and customers or to match products and
services offered by its competitors, including technology companies.
In addition, new technologies may be used by customers, or breached
or infiltrated by third parties, in unexpected ways, which can increase
JPMorgan Chase’s costs for complying with laws and regulations that
apply to the offering of products and services through those
technologies and reduce the income that JPMorgan Chase earns from
providing products and services through those new technologies.
Ongoing or increased competition may put pressure on the pricing for
JPMorgan Chase’s products and services or may cause JPMorgan
Chase to lose market share, particularly with respect to traditional
banking products such as deposits and bank accounts. This competition
may be on the basis of quality and variety of products and services
offered, transaction execution, innovation, reputation and price. The
failure of any of JPMorgan Chase’s businesses to meet the
expectations of clients and customers, whether due to general market
conditions, under-performance, a decision not to offer a particular
product or service, changes in client and customer expectations or
other
 27
Part I
factors, could affect JPMorgan Chase’s ability to attract or retain
clients and customers. Any such impact could, in turn, reduce
JPMorgan Chase’s revenues. Increased competition also may require
JPMorgan Chase to make additional capital investments in its
businesses, or to extend more of its capital on behalf of its clients in
order to remain competitive.
Non-U.S. competitors of JPMorgan Chase’s wholesale businesses
outside the U.S. are typically subject to different, and in some cases,
less stringent, legislative and regulatory regimes. The more restrictive
laws and regulations applicable to JPMorgan Chase and other U.S.
financial services institutions can put JPMorgan Chase and those firms
at a competitive disadvantage to non-U.S. competitors. This could
reduce the revenue and profitability of JPMorgan Chase’s wholesale
businesses, resulting from:
•prohibitions on engaging in certain transactions
•higher capital and liquidity requirements
•making JPMorgan Chase’s pricing of certain transactions more
expensive for clients, and
•adversely affecting JPMorgan Chase’s cost structure for providing
certain products.
People
JPMorgan Chase’s ability to attract and retain qualified
employees is critical to its success.
JPMorgan Chase’s employees are its most important resource, and in
many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified
personnel is intense. JPMorgan Chase endeavors to attract talented and
diverse new employees and retain and motivate its existing employees.
If JPMorgan Chase were unable to continue to attract or retain
qualified employees, including successors to the Chief Executive
Officer or members of the Operating Committee, JPMorgan Chase’s
performance, including its competitive position, could be materially
and adversely affected.
Unfavorable changes in immigration policies could adversely
affect the quality of JPMorgan Chase’s businesses and operations.
JPMorgan Chase relies on the skills, knowledge and expertise of
employees located throughout the world. Changes in immigration
policies in the U.S. and other countries that unduly restrict or
otherwise make it more difficult for employees or their family
members to work in, or transfer among, jurisdictions in which
JPMorgan Chase has operations or conducts its business could inhibit
JPMorgan Chase’s ability to attract and retain qualified employees, and
thereby dilute the quality of its workforce, or could prompt JPMorgan
Chase to make structural changes to its worldwide operating model
that are less efficient or more costly. Legal
JPMorgan Chase faces significant legal risks from private actions
and formal and informal regulatory and government
investigations.
JPMorgan Chase is named as a defendant or is otherwise involved in
many legal proceedings, including class actions and other litigation or
disputes with third parties. Actions currently pending against
JPMorgan Chase may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties
or other sanctions adverse to JPMorgan Chase. Any of these matters
could materially and adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s business,
financial condition or results of operations, or cause serious
reputational harm. As a participant in the financial services industry, it
is likely that JPMorgan Chase will continue to experience a high level
of litigation and regulatory and government investigations related to its
businesses and operations.
Regulators and other government agencies conduct examinations of
JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries both on a routine basis and in
targeted exams, and JPMorgan Chase’s businesses and operations are
subject to heightened regulatory oversight. This heightened regulatory
scrutiny, or the results of such an investigation or examination, may
lead to additional regulatory investigations or enforcement actions.
There is no assurance that those actions will not result in resolutions or
other enforcement actions against JPMorgan Chase. Furthermore, a
single event involving a potential violation of law or regulation may
give rise to numerous and overlapping investigations and proceedings,
either by multiple federal, state or local agencies and officials in the
U.S. or, in some instances, regulators and other governmental officials
in non-U.S. jurisdictions.
If another financial institution violates a law or regulation relating to a
particular business activity or practice, this will often give rise to an
investigation by regulators and other governmental agencies of the
same or similar activity or practice by JPMorgan Chase.
These and other initiatives by U.S. and non-U.S. governmental
authorities may subject JPMorgan Chase to judgments, settlements,
fines, penalties or other sanctions, and may require JPMorgan Chase to
restructure its operations and activities or to cease offering certain
products or services. All of these potential outcomes could harm
JPMorgan Chase’s reputation or lead to higher operational costs,
thereby reducing JPMorgan Chase’s profitability, or result in collateral
consequences. In addition, the extent of JPMorgan Chase’s exposure to
legal and regulatory matters can be unpredictable and could, in some
cases, exceed the amount of reserves that JPMorgan Chase has
established for those matters.
Item 1B. Unresolved Staf f Comments.
None.
28  
Item 2. Properties.
JPMorgan Chase’s headquarters is located in New York City at 383
Madison Avenue, a 47-story office building that it owns. The Firm has
commenced a project to demolish its former headquarters at 270 Park
Avenue in New York City and to build a new headquarters on the same
site.
The Firm owned or leased facilities in the following locations at
December 31, 2018.
December 31, 2018
(in millions)Approximate square
footage
United States(a) 
New York City, New York  
383 Madison Avenue, New York, New York1.1
All other New York City locations9.7
Total New York City, New York10.8
Other U.S. locations  
Columbus/Westerville, Ohio3.7
Chicago, Illinois2.8
Phoenix/Tempe, Arizona2.5
Wilmington/Newark, Delaware2.2
Houston, Texas2.0
Jersey City, New Jersey1.7
Dallas/Plano, Texas1.4
All other U.S. locations34.6
Total United States61.7
Europe, the Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”)  
25 Bank Street, London, U.K.1.4
All other U.K. locations3.1
All other EMEA locations1.4
Total EMEA5.9
Asia Pacific, Latin America and Canada  
India3.4
All other locations3.9
Total Asia Pacific, Latin America and Canada7.3
Total74.9
(a)At December 31, 2018, the Firm owned or leased 5,036 retail branches in 27 states
and the District of Columbia.
The premises and facilities occupied by JPMorgan Chase are used
across all of the Firm’s business segments and for corporate purposes.
JPMorgan Chase continues to evaluate its current and projected space
requirements and may determine from time to time that certain of its
properties (including the premises and facilities noted above) are no
longer necessary for its operations. There is no assurance that the Firm
will be able to dispose of any such excess properties, premises, or
facilities or that it will not incur costs in connection with such
dispositions. Such disposition costs may be material to the Firm’s
results of operations in a given period. For information on occupancy
expense, refer to the Consolidated Results of Operations on pages 48–
51. Item 3. Legal Proceedings.
For a description of the Firm’s material legal proceedings, refer to
Note 29.
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.
Not applicable.
 29
Part II
Item 5. Market for Registrant’ s Common Equity , Related
Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities.
Market for registrant’s common equity
JPMorgan Chase’s common stock is listed and traded on the New York
Stock Exchange. For a comparison of the cumulative total return for
JPMorgan Chase common stock with the comparable total return of the
S&P 500 Index, the KBW Bank Index and the S&P Financial Index
over the five-year period ended December 31, 2018, refer to “Five-
year stock performance,” on page 41. 
For information on the common dividend payout ratio, refer to Capital
actions in the Capital Risk Management section of Management’s
discussion and analysis on pages 91-92. For a discussion of restrictions
on dividend payments, refer to Note 20 and Note 25. On January 31,
2019, there were 195,417 holders of record of JPMorgan Chase
common stock. For information regarding securities authorized for
issuance under the Firm’s employee share-based incentive plans, refer
to Part III, Item 12 on page 33.
Repurchases under the common equity repurchase program
For information regarding repurchases under the Firm’s common
equity repurchase program, refer to Capital actions in the Capital Risk
Management section of Management’s discussion and analysis on
pages 91-92.
Shares repurchased, on a settlement-date basis, pursuant to the common equity repurchase program during 2018 were as follows.
Year ended December 31, 2018  Total shares of
common stock
repurchased  Average price
paid per share
of common
stock(a) Aggregate
repurchases of
common equity (in
millions)(a) Dollar value
of remaining
authorized
repurchase
(in millions)(a)
First quarter  41,419,035 $ 112.78 $ 4,671 $ 5,156
Second quarter  45,299,370 109.67 4,968 188(b) 
Third quarter  39,282,276 112.41 4,416 16,309
October  22,697,641 108.97 2,474 13,836
November  15,389,818 109.25 1,681 12,155
December  17,416,343 101.81 1,773 10,381
Fourth quarter  55,503,802 106.80 5,928 10,381
Year-to-date  181,504,483 $ 110.09 $ 19,983 $ 10,381(c) 
(a)Excludes commissions cost.
(b)The $188 million unused portion under the prior Board authorization was canceled when the $20.7 billion repurchase program was authorized by the Board of Directors on June 28,
2018.
(c)Represents the amount remaining under the $20.7 billion repurchase program.
Item 6. Selected Financial Data.
For five-year selected financial data, refer to “Five-year summary of
consolidated financial highlights (unaudited)” on page 40.
Item 7. Management’ s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and
results of operations, entitled “Management’s discussion and analysis,”
appears on pages 42–147. Such information should be read in
conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes
thereto, which appear on pages 150-286. 
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
Market Risk.
For a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about
market risk, refer to the Market Risk Management section of
Management’s discussion and analysis on pages 124–131.
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
The Consolidated Financial Statements, together with the Notes
thereto and the report thereon dated February 26, 2019, of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the Firm’s independent registered public
accounting firm, appear on pages 149-286.
Supplementary financial data for each quarter within the two years
ended December 31, 2018, are included on page 287 in the table
entitled “Selected quarterly financial data (unaudited).” Also included
is a “Glossary of Terms and Acronyms’’ on pages 293–299.
30  
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants
on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.
None.
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.
The internal control framework promulgated by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”),
“Internal Control — Integrated Framework” (“COSO 2013”), provides
guidance for designing, implementing and conducting internal control
and assessing its effectiveness. The Firm used the COSO 2013
framework to assess the effectiveness of the Firm’s internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018. Refer to
“Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting” on
page 148.
As of the end of the period covered by this report, an evaluation was
carried out under the supervision and with the participation of the
Firm’s management, including its Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer and its Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of its
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based on that evaluation, the
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer
concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
Refer to Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 for the Certifications furnished by the
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer,
respectively.
The Firm is committed to maintaining high standards of internal
control over financial reporting. Nevertheless, because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. In addition, in a firm as large and complex as
JPMorgan Chase, lapses or deficiencies in internal controls may occur
from time to time, and there can be no assurance that any such
deficiencies will not result in significant deficiencies or material
weaknesses in internal control in the future and collateral
consequences therefrom. For further information, refer to
“Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting” on
page 148. There was no change in the Firm’s internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934) that occurred during the three months ended
December 31, 2018, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely
to materially affect, the Firm’s internal control over financial reporting. Item 9B. Other Information.
None.
 31
Part III
Item 10. Directors, Executive Of ficers and Corporate Governance.
Executive officers of the registrant
 Age  
Name (at December 31, 2018) Positions and of fices
James Dimon 62 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Of ficer; he had been President from July 2004 until
January 2018.
Ashley Bacon 49 Chief Risk Of ficer since June 2013.
Lori A. Beer 51 Chief Information Of ficer since September 2017, prior to which she had been Chief Information
Officer of the Corporate & Investment Bank since June 2016. She was Global Head of Banking
Technology from January 2014 until May 2016. Prior to joining JPMor gan Chase in 2014, she was
Executive Vice President of Specialty Businesses and Information Technology for Anthem, Inc.
Mary Callahan Erdoes 51 Chief Executive Of ficer of Asset & Wealth Management since September 2009.
Stacey Friedman 50 General Counsel since January 2016, prior to which she was Deputy General Counsel since July
2015 and General Counsel for the Corporate & Investment Bank since August 2012.
Marianne Lake 49 Chief Financial Of ficer since January 2013.
Robin Leopold 54 Head of Human Resources since January 2018, prior to which she had been Head of Human
Resources for the Corporate & Investment Bank since August 2012.
Douglas B. Petno 53 Chief Executive Of ficer of Commercial Banking since January 2012.
Daniel E. Pinto 56 Co-President and Co-Chief Operating Of ficer since January 2018, Chief Executive Of ficer of the
Corporate & Investment Bank since March 2014, and Chief Executive Of ficer of Europe, the Middle
East and Africa since June 201 1. He had been Co-Chief Executive Of ficer of the Corporate &
Investment Bank from July 2012 until March 2014.
Peter Scher
  57 Head of Corporate Responsibility since 201 1 and Chairman of the Mid-Atlantic Region since 2015.
Gordon A. Smith 60 Co-President and Co-Chief Operating Of ficer since January 2018, and Chief Executive Of ficer of
Consumer & Community Banking since December 2012.
Unless otherwise noted, during the five fiscal years ended December 31, 2018, all of JPMorgan Chase’s above-named executive officers have continuously held senior-level positions
with JPMorgan Chase. There are no family relationships among the foregoing executive officers. Information to be provided in Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of the Form 10-K and not
otherwise included herein is incorporated by reference to the Firm’s Definitive Proxy Statement for its 2019 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 21, 2019, which will be
filed with the SEC within 120 days of the end of the Firm’s fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
32  
Item 1 1. Executive Compensation.
Refer to Item 10. 
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.
For security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management, refer to Item 10.
The following table sets forth the total number of shares available for issuance under JPMorgan Chase’s employee share-based incentive plans
(including shares available for issuance to non-employee directors). The Firm is not authorized to grant share-based incentive awards to non-
employees, other than to non-employee directors.
December 31, 2018Number of shares to be issued
upon exercise of outstanding
options/stock appreciation
rights  Weighted-average
exercise price of
outstanding
options/stock appreciation rights Number of shares remaining
available for future issuance
under stock incentive plans
Plan category     
Employee share-based incentive plans approved by shareholders 12,462,572 (a) $ 41.46  85,860,463 (b) 
Total 12,462,572  $ 41.46  85,860,463  
(a)Does not include restricted stock units or performance stock units granted under the shareholder-approved Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”), as amended and restated effective
May 15, 2018. For further discussion, refer to Note 9.
(b)Represents shares available for future issuance under the shareholder-approved LTIP.
All shares available for future issuance will be issued under the shareholder-approved LTIP. For further discussion, refer to Note 9.
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
and Director Independence.
Refer to Item 10.
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services.
Refer to Item 10.
 33
Part IV
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules.
1  Financial statements
  The Consolidated Financial Statements, the Notes
thereto and the report of the Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm thereon listed in Item 8 are set
forth commencing on page 149.
2  Financial statement schedules
3  Exhibits
3.1
 Restated Certificate of Incorporation of JPMorgan
Chase & Co., effective April 5, 2006 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form
8-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed
April 7, 2006).
3.2
 Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation
of JPMorgan Chase & Co., effective June 7, 2013
(incorporated by reference to Appendix F to the Proxy
Statement on Schedule 14A of JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(File No. 1-5805) filed April 10, 2013).
3.3
 Certificate of Designations for Fixed-to-Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on
Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805)
filed April 24, 2008).
3.4
 Certificate of Designations for 5.45% Non-Cumulative
Preferred Stock, Series P (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed February
5, 2013).
3.5
 Certificate of Designations for Fixed-to-Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series Q
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current
Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File
No. 1-5805) filed April 23, 2013).
3.6
 Certificate of Designations for Fixed-to-Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series R (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on
Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805)
filed July 29, 2013).
3.7
 Certificate of Designations for Fixed-to-Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series S (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on
Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805)
filed January 22, 2014). 
3.8 Certificate of Designations for 6.70% Non-Cumulative
Preferred Stock, Series T (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed January
30, 2014).
3.9 Certificate of Designations for Fixed-to-Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series U
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current
Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File
No. 1-5805) filed on March 10, 2014).
3.10 Certificate of Designations for Fixed-to-Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series V (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on
Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805)
filed on June 9, 2014).
3.11 Certificate of Designations for 6.30% Non-Cumulative
Preferred Stock, Series W (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed on June
23, 2014).
3.12 Certificate of Designations for Fixed-to-Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series X
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current
Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File
No. 1-5805) filed on September 23, 2014).
3.13 Certificate of Designations for 6.125% Non-Cumulative
Preferred Stock, Series Y (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed February
17, 2015).
3.14 Certificate of Designations for Fixed-to-Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series Z (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on
Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805)
filed April 21, 2015).
3.15 Certificate of Designations for 6.10% Non-Cumulative
Preferred Stock, Series AA (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed June 4,
2015).
3.16 Certificate of Designations for 6.15% Non-Cumulative
Preferred Stock, Series BB (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed July 29,
2015).
3.17 Certificate of Designations for Fixed-to-Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series CC
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current
Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File
No. 1-5805) filed October 20, 2017).
34  
3.18
 Certificate of Designations for 5.75% Non-Cumulative
Preferred Stock, Series DD (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed
September 21, 2018).
3.19
 Certificate of Designations for 6.00% Non-Cumulative
Preferred Stock, Series EE (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed January
24, 2019).
3.20
 By-laws of JPMorgan Chase & Co., as amended,
effective January 30, 2018 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed January
30, 2018).
4.1(a)
 Indenture, dated as of October 21, 2010, between
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank Trust
Company Americas, as Trustee (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form
8-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No.1-5805) filed
October 21, 2010).
4.1(b)
 First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 13,
2017, between JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche
Bank Trust Company Americas, as Trustee, to the
Indenture, dated as of October 21, 2010 (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on
Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805)
filed January 13, 2017).
4.2(a)
 Subordinated Indenture, dated as of March 14, 2014,
between JPMorgan Chase & Co. and U.S. Bank Trust
National Association, as Trustee (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form
8-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No.1-5805) filed
March 14, 2014).
4.2(b)
 First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 13,
2017, between JPMorgan Chase & Co. and U.S. Bank
Trust National Association, as Trustee, to the
Subordinated Indenture, dated as of March 14, 2014
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Current
Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File
No. 1-5805) filed January 13, 2017).
4.3(a)
 Indenture, dated as of May 25, 2001, between JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Bankers Trust Company (succeeded
by Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas), as Trustee
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a)(1) to the
Registration Statement on Form S-3 of JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (File No. 333-52826) filed June 13, 2001). 
4.3(b) Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 13,
2017, between JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bankers
Trust Company (succeeded by Deutsche Bank Trust
Company Americas), as Trustee, to the Indenture, dated
as of May 25, 2001 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) filed January
13, 2017).
4.4 Indenture, dated as of February 19, 2016, among
JPMorgan Chase Financial Company LLC, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank Trust Company
Americas, as Trustee (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4(a)(7) to the Registration Statement on Form S-
3 of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and JPMorgan Chase
Financial Company LLC (File No. 333-209682) filed
February 24, 2016).
4.5 Form of Deposit Agreement (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4.3 to the Registration Statement on Form S-3
of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 333-191692) filed
October 11, 2013).
Other instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt
securities of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries are omitted
pursuant to Section (b)(4)(iii)(A) of Item 601 of Regulation S-K.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. agrees to furnish copies of these instruments
to the SEC upon request.
10.1 Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee
Directors of JPMorgan Chase & Co., as amended and
restated July 2001 and as of December 31, 2004
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Annual
Report on Form 10-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File
No. 1-5805) for the year ended December 31, 2007).(a)
10.2 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee
Directors of JPMorgan Chase & Co., effective as of
January 1, 2005 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.2 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) for the year ended
December 31, 2007).(a)
10.3 2005 Deferred Compensation Program of JPMorgan
Chase & Co., restated effective as of December 31,
2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the
Annual Report on Form 10-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(File No. 1-5805) for the year ended December 31,
2008).(a)
10.4 JPMorgan Chase & Co. Amended and Restated Long-
Term Incentive Plan, effective May 15, 2018
(incorporated by reference to Appendix B of the
Schedule 14A of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-
5805) filed April 5, 2018).(a)
10.5 Key Executive Performance Plan of JPMorgan Chase &
Co., as amended and restated effective January 1, 2014
(incorporated by reference to Appendix G of the
Schedule 14A of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-
5805) filed April 10, 2013).(a)
 35
Part IV
10.6
 Excess Retirement Plan of JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
restated and amended as of December 31, 2008, as
amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to
the Annual Report on Form 10-K of JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (File No. 1-5805) for the year ended December 31,
2009).(a)
10.7
 Executive Retirement Plan of JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
as amended and restated December 31, 2008
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Annual
Report on Form 10-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File
No. 1-5805) for the year ended December 31, 2008).(a)
10.8
 Bank One Corporation Supplemental Savings and
Investment Plan, as amended and restated effective
December 31, 2008 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.13 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) for the year
ended December 31, 2008).(a)
10.9
 Form of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Long-Term Incentive
Plan Terms and Conditions for stock appreciation rights,
dated as of January 20, 2009 (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.20 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) for the year
ended December 31, 2008).(a)
10.10
 Form of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Long-Term Incentive
Plan Terms and Conditions for Operating Committee
member stock appreciation rights, dated as of February
3, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to
the Annual Report on Form 10-K of JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (File No. 1-5805) for the year ended December 31,
2009).(a)
10.11
 Forms of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Long-Term Incentive
Plan Terms and Conditions for stock appreciation rights
and restricted stock units, dated as of January 18, 2012
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.25 to the
Annual Report on Form 10-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(File No. 1-5805) for the year ended December 31,
2011).(a)
10.12
 Forms of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Long-Term Incentive
Plan Terms and Conditions for stock appreciation rights
and restricted stock units for Operating Committee
members, dated as of January 17, 2013 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.23 to the Annual Report on Form
10-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) for
the year ended December 31, 2012).(a)
10.13
 Forms of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Long-Term Incentive
Plan Terms & Conditions for restricted stock units for
Operating Committee members (U.S., E.U. and U.K.),
dated as of January 20, 2015 (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) for the quarter
ended March 31, 2015).(a) 
10.14 Form of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Long-Term Incentive
Plan Terms and Conditions for restricted stock units for
Operating Committee members, dated as of January 19,
2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to the
Annual Report on Form 10-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(File No. 1-5805) for the year ended December 31,
2015).(a)
10.15 Form of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Long-Term Incentive
Plan Terms and Conditions for performance share units
for Operating Committee members, dated as of January
19, 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to
the Annual Report on Form 10-K of JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (File No. 1-5805) for the year ended December 31,
2015).(a)
10.16 Forms of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Long-Term Incentive
Plan Terms and Conditions for performance share units
and restricted stock units for Operating Committee
members (U.S. and U.K.), dated as of January 17, 2017
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to the
Annual Report on Form 10-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(File No. 1-5805) for the year ended December 31,
2016).(a)
10.17 Forms of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Long-Term Incentive
Plan Terms and Conditions for performance share units
and restricted stock units for Operating Committee
members (U.S. and U.K.), dated as of January 16, 2018.
(a)
10.18 Forms of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Long-Term Incentive
Plan Terms and Conditions for restricted stock units for
Operating Committee members (U.S. and U.K.), dated
as of January 15, 2019.(a)(b)
10.19 Form of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Terms and Conditions
of Fixed Allowance (UK) (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) for the quarter
ended June 30, 2014).(a)
10.20 Form of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Performance-Based
Incentive Compensation Plan, effective as of January 1,
2006, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.27 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (File No. 1-5805) for the year ended
December 31, 2009).(a)
10.21 Employee Stock Purchase Plan of JPMorgan Chase &
Co., as amended and restated effective as of January 1,
2019.(b)
10.22 Plea Agreement dated May 20, 2015 between JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and the U.S. Department of Justice
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Current
Report on Form 8-K of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (File
No. 1-5805) filed May 20, 2015).
21 List of subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase & Co.(b)
36  
22
 Annual Report on Form 11-K of The JPMorgan Chase
401(k) Savings Plan for the year ended December 31,
2018 (to be filed pursuant to Rule 15d-21 under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934).
23
 Consent of independent registered public accounting
firm.(b)
31.1  Certification.(b)
31.2  Certification.(b)
32
 Certification pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act of 2002.(c)
   
101.INS
 The instance document does not appear in the
interactive data file because its XBRL tags are
embedded within the inline XBRL document.(d)
101.SCH
 XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema
Document.(b)
101.CAL
 XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase
Document.(b)
101.DEF
 XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase
Document.(b)
101.LAB
 XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.
(b)
101.PRE
 XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase
Document.(b)
(a)This exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
(b)Filed herewith.
(c)Furnished herewith. This exhibit shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section
18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liability of
that Section. Such exhibit shall not be deemed incorporated into any filing under the
Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(d)Pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T, includes the following financial information
included in the Firm’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, formatted
in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language) interactive data files: (i) the
Consolidated statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017
and 2016, (ii) the Consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the years
ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, (iii) the Consolidated balance sheets as
of December 31, 2018 and 2017, (iv) the Consolidated statements of changes in
stockholders’ equity for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, (v) the
Consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017
and 2016, and (vi) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 37
page 38 not used
38  
Table of contents
Financial:    
40Five-Year Summary of Consolidated Financial Highlights Audited financial statements:
41Five-Year Stock Performance 148
 Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting
Management’s discussion and analysis: 149 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
42Introduction 150 Consolidated Financial Statements
43Executive Overview 155 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
48Consolidated Results of Operations  
52Consolidated Balance Sheets and Cash Flows Analysis    
55Off–Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Cash
Obligations    
57Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm’s Use of Non-
GAAP Financial Measures and Key Performance Measures Supplementary information:
60Business Segment Results 287 Selected quarterly financial data (unaudited)
79Enterprise-wide Risk Management 288 Distribution of assets, liabilities and stockholders’ equity;
interest rates and interest differentials   
84Strategic Risk Management 293 Glossary of Terms and Acronyms
102Credit and Investment Risk Management    
124Market Risk Management    
132Country Risk Management    
134Operational Risk Management    
141Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm    
144Accounting and Reporting Developments    
147Forward-Looking Statements    
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  39
Financial
FIVE-YEAR SUMMAR Y OF CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL  HIGHLIGHTS (unaudited)
As of or for the year ended December 31,
(in millions, except per share, ratio, headcount data and where otherwise noted)   
2018 2017  2016 2015 2014
Selected income statement data    
Total net revenue $ 109,029 $ 100,705 $ 96,569$ 94,440$ 95,994
Total noninterest expense 63,394 59,515 56,672 59,911 62,156
Pre-provision profit 45,635 41,190 39,897 34,529 33,838
Provision for credit losses 4,871 5,290 5,361 3,827 3,139
Income before income tax expense 40,764 35,900 34,536 30,702 30,699
Income tax expense 8,290 11,459 9,803 6,260 8,954
Net income $ 32,474 $ 24,441 (f) $ 24,733$ 24,442$ 21,745
Earnings per share data    
Net income: Basic $ 9.04 $ 6.35 $ 6.24$ 6.05$ 5.33
              Diluted 9.00 6.31 6.19 6.00 5.29
Average shares: Basic 3,396.4 3,551.6 3,658.8 3,741.2 3,808.3
              Diluted 3,414.0 3,576.8 3,690.0 3,773.6 3,842.3
Market and per common share data    
Market capitalization $ 319,780 $ 366,301 $ 307,295$ 241,899$ 232,472
Common shares at period-end 3,275.8 3,425.3 3,561.2 3,663.5 3,714.8
Book value per share 70.35 67.04 64.06 60.46 56.98
Tangible book value per share (“TBVPS”)(a) 56.33 53.56 51.44 48.13 44.60
Cash dividends declared per share 2.72 2.12 1.88 1.72 1.58
Selected ratios and metrics    
Return on common equity (“ROE”) 13% 10% 10% 11% 10%
Return on tangible common equity (“ROTCE”)(a) 17 12 13 13 13
Return on assets (“ROA”) 1.24 0.96 1.00 0.99 0.89
Overhead ratio 58 59 59 63 65
Loans-to-deposits ratio 67 64 65 65 56
Liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”) (average)(b) 113 119 N/A N/A N/A
Common equity tier 1 (“CET1”) capital ratio(c) 12.0 12.2 12.3 11.8 10.2
Tier 1 capital ratio(c) 13.7 13.9 14.0 13.5 11.6
Total capital ratio(c) 15.5 15.9 15.5 15.1 13.1
Tier 1 leverage ratio(c) 8.1 8.3 8.4 8.5 7.6
Supplementary leverage ratio (“SLR”)(d) 6.4% 6.5% 6.5% 6.5% N/A
Selected balance sheet data (period-end)    
Trading assets $ 413,714 $ 381,844 $ 372,130$ 343,839$ 398,988
Investment securities 261,828 249,958 289,059 290,827 348,004
Loans 984,554 930,697 894,765 837,299 757,336
Core Loans 931,856 863,683 806,152 732,093 628,785
Average core loans 885,221 829,558 769,385 670,757 596,823
Total assets 2,622,532 2,533,600 2,490,972 2,351,698 2,572,274
Deposits 1,470,666 1,443,982 1,375,179 1,279,715 1,363,427
Long-term debt 282,031 284,080 295,245 288,651 276,379
Common stockholders’ equity 230,447 229,625 228,122 221,505 211,664
Total stockholders’ equity 256,515 255,693 254,190 247,573 231,727
Headcount 256,105 252,539 243,355 234,598 241,359
Credit quality metrics    
Allowance for credit losses $ 14,500 $ 14,672 $ 14,854$ 14,341$ 14,807
Allowance for loan losses to total retained loans 1.39% 1.47% 1.55% 1.63% 1.90%
Allowance for loan losses to retained loans excluding purchased credit-impaired loans(e) 1.23 1.27 1.34 1.37 1.55
Nonperforming assets $ 5,190 $ 6,426 $ 7,535$ 7,034$ 7,967
Net charge-offs 4,856 5,387 4,692 4,086 4,759
Net charge-off rate 0.52% 0.60%(g) 0.54% 0.52% 0.65%
Effective January 1, 2018, the Firm adopted several new accounting standards. Certain of the new accounting standards were applied retrospectively and, accordingly, prior period amounts were revised.
For additional information, refer to Note 1.
(a)TBVPS and ROTCE are non-GAAP financial measures. For a further discussion of these measures, refer to Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm’s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and
Key Performance Measures on pages 57-59.
(b)For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, the percentage represents the Firm’s reported average LCR for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, per the U.S. LCR public
disclosure requirements which became effective April 1, 2017. Refer to Liquidity Risk Management on pages 95–100 for additional information on the Firm’s LCR.
(c)Ratios presented are calculated under the Basel III Transitional capital rules and for the capital ratios represent the lower of the Standardized or Advanced approach. As of December 31, 2018, the Firm’s
capital ratios were equivalent whether calculated on a transitional or fully phased-in basis. Refer to Capital Risk Management on pages 85-94 for additional information on Basel III.
(d)Effective January 1, 2018, the SLR was fully phased-in under Basel III. The SLR is defined as Tier 1 capital divided by the Firm’s total leverage exposure. Ratios prior to 2018 were calculated under the
Basel III Transitional rules, per the SLR public disclosure requirements which became effective January 1, 2015.
(e)Excluded the impact of residential real estate purchased credit-impaired (“PCI”) loans, a non-GAAP financial measure. For further discussion of these measures, refer to Explanation and Reconciliation
of the Firm’s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Key Performance Measures on pages 57-59, and the Allowance for credit losses on pages 120–122.
(f)On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) was signed into law. The Firm’s results for the year ended December 31, 2017 included a $2.4 billion decrease to net income as a result of
the enactment of the TCJA. For additional information related to the impact of the TCJA, refer to Note 24.
(g)Excluding net charge-offs of $467 million related to the student loan portfolio sale, the net charge-off rate for the year ended December 31, 2017 would have been 0.55%.
40  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
FIVE-YEAR ST OCK PERFORMANCE
The following table and graph compare the five-year cumulative total return for JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“JPMorgan Chase” or the “Firm”)
common stock with the cumulative return of the S&P 500 Index, the KBW Bank Index and the S&P Financial Index. The S&P 500 Index is a
commonly referenced equity benchmark in the United States of America (“U.S.”), consisting of leading companies from different economic sectors.
The KBW Bank Index seeks to reflect the performance of banks and thrifts that are publicly traded in the U.S. and is composed of leading national
money center and regional banks and thrifts. The S&P Financial Index is an index of financial companies, all of which are components of the S&P
500. The Firm is a component of all three industry indices.
The following table and graph assume simultaneous investments of $100 on December 31, 2013, in JPMorgan Chase common stock and in each of
the above indices. The comparison assumes that all dividends are reinvested.
December 31,
(in dollars) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
JPMorgan Chase $ 100.00 $ 109.88 $ 119.07 $ 160.23 $ 203.07 $ 189.57
KBW Bank Index 100.00 109.36 109.90 141.23 167.49 137.82
S&P Financial Index 100.00 115.18 113.38 139.17 169.98 147.82
S&P 500 Index 100.00 113.68 115.24 129.02 157.17 150.27
December 31,
(in dollars)
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  41
Management’ s discussion and analysis
The following is Management’s discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations (“MD&A”) of JPMorgan Chase for the
year ended December 31, 2018. The MD&A is included in both JPMorgan Chase’s Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2018 (“Annual
Report”) and its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 (“2018 Form 10-K”) filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”). Refer to the Glossary of terms and acronyms on pages 293–299 for definitions of terms and acronyms used throughout the
Annual Report and the 2018 Form 10-K.
The MD&A contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These
statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase’s management and are subject to significant risks and
uncertainties. For a discussion of certain of those risks and uncertainties and the factors that could cause JPMorgan Chase’s actual results to differ
materially because of those risks and uncertainties, refer to Forward-looking Statements on page 147) and Part I, Item 1A: Risk factors in the 2018
Form 10-K.
INTRODUCTION
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM), a financial holding company
incorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a leading global financial
services firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the United
States of America (“U.S.”), with operations worldwide; JPMorgan
Chase had $2.6 trillion in assets and $256.5 billion in stockholders’
equity as of December 31, 2018. The Firm is a leader in investment
banking, financial services for consumers and small businesses,
commercial banking, financial transaction processing and asset
management. Under the J.P. Morgan and Chase brands, the Firm serves
millions of customers in the U.S. and globally many of the world’s
most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients.
JPMorgan Chase’s principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase
Bank, National Association (“JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.”), a
national banking association with U.S. branches in 27 states and the
District of Columbia as of December 31, 2018, and Chase Bank USA,
National Association (“Chase Bank USA, N.A.”), a national banking
association that is the Firm’s principal credit card-issuing bank. In
January 2019, the OCC approved an application of merger which was
filed by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A. in
December 2018 and which contemplates that Chase Bank USA, N.A.
will merge with and into JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., with JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. as the surviving bank. For additional information
refer to Supervision and Regulation on pages 1-6 in the 2018 Form 10-
K. JPMorgan Chase’s principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P. Morgan
Securities LLC (“J.P. Morgan Securities”), a U.S. broker-dealer. The
bank and non-bank subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase operate nationally
as well as through overseas branches and subsidiaries, representative
offices and subsidiary foreign banks. The Firm’s principal operating
subsidiary in the U.K. is J.P. Morgan Securities plc, a subsidiary of
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. For management reporting purposes, the Firm’s activities are organized
into four major reportable business segments, as well as a Corporate
segment. The Firm’s consumer business is the Consumer &
Community Banking (“CCB”) segment. The Firm’s wholesale
business segments are Corporate & Investment Bank (“CIB”),
Commercial Banking (“CB”), and Asset & Wealth Management
(“AWM”). For a description of the Firm’s business segments, and the
products and services they provide to their respective client bases,
refer to Business Segment Results on pages 60-78, and Note 31.
42  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
EXECUTIVE OVER VIEW
This executive overview of the MD&A highlights selected information
and does not contain all of the information that is important to readers
of this 2018 Form 10-K. For a complete description of the trends and
uncertainties, as well as the risks and critical accounting estimates
affecting the Firm and its various lines of business, this 2018 Form 10-
K should be read in its entirety.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Firm adopted several new accounting
standards, of which the most significant to the Firm was the guidance
related to revenue recognition, and recognition and measurement of
financial assets. The revenue recognition guidance requires gross
presentation of certain costs that were previously offset against revenue.
This change was adopted retrospectively and, accordingly, prior period
amounts were revised, resulting in both total net revenue and total
noninterest expense increasing with no impact to net income. The
adoption of the recognition and measurement guidance resulted in $505
million of fair value gains in the first quarter of 2018, recorded in total
net revenue, on certain equity investments that were previously held at
cost. For additional information, refer to Note 1.
Financial performance of JPMorgan Chase  
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except per share data
and ratios)  
2018 2017  Change
Selected income statement data   
Total net revenue $ 109,029 $ 100,705 8 %
Total noninterest expense 63,394 59,515 7
Pre-provision profit 45,635 41,190 11
Provision for credit losses 4,871 5,290 (8)
Net income 32,474 24,441 33
Diluted earnings per share 9.00 6.31 43
Selected ratios and metrics   
Return on common equity 13% 10% 
Return on tangible common equity 17 12 
Book value per share $ 70.35 $ 67.04 5
Tangible book value per share 56.33 53.56 5
Capital ratios(a)   
CET1 12.0% 12.2% 
Tier 1 capital 13.7 13.9 
Total capital 15.5 15.9 
(a)Ratios presented are calculated under the Basel III Transitional rules. As of December 31,
2018, the Firm’ s capital ratios were equivalent whether calculated on a transitional or
fully phased-in basis. Refer to Capital Risk Management on pages 85-94  for additional
information on Basel III.
Comparisons noted in the sections below are for the full year of 2018
versus the full year of 2017, unless otherwise specified.
Firmwide overview
JPMorgan Chase reported strong results for 2018, with record net income
and EPS of $32.5 billion and $9.00 per share, respectively, on net revenue
of $109.0 billion. Excluding the impact of the Tax Cuts & Jobs Acts
(“TCJA”), net income and EPS were still records for a full year. The Firm
reported ROE of 13% and ROTCE of 17%. For additional information
related to the impact of the TCJA, refer to the Consolidated Results of
Operations on pages 48–51 and Note 24. •Net income increased 33%, reflecting higher net revenue and the impact
of the lower U.S. federal statutory income tax rate as a result of the
TCJA, partially offset by an increase in noninterest expense.
•Total net revenue increased 8%. Net interest income was $55.1 billion,
up 10%, driven by the impact of higher rates, loan growth and Card
margin expansion, partially offset by lower CIB Markets net interest
income. Noninterest revenue was $54.0 billion, up 7%, largely driven
by higher CIB Markets noninterest revenue and auto lease income,
partially offset by markdowns on certain legacy private equity
investments and the impact of higher funding spreads on derivatives.
•Noninterest expense was $63.4 billion, up 7%, predominantly driven by
investments in the business, including technology, marketing, higher
compensation expense on increased headcount, and real estate, as well
as higher revenue-related costs, including auto lease depreciation and
volume-related transaction costs.
•The provision for credit losses was $4.9 billion, down from $5.3 billion
in the prior year, reflecting a decrease in the consumer provision driven
by a lower addition to the credit card allowance for credit losses and
lower net charge-offs. The lower net charge-offs were primarily driven
by recoveries from loan sales in the residential real estate portfolio,
predominantly offset by higher net charge-offs in the credit card
portfolio, as anticipated. The prior year also included a net $218 million
write-down recorded in connection with the sale of the student loan
portfolio. The decrease in the consumer provision was partially offset
by an increase in the wholesale provision, reflecting additions to the
allowance for loan losses from select client downgrades.
•The total allowance for credit losses was $14.5 billion at December 31,
2018, and the Firm had a loan loss coverage ratio, excluding the PCI
portfolio, of 1.23%, compared with 1.27% in the prior year. The Firm’s
nonperforming assets totaled $5.2 billion at December 31, 2018, a
decrease from $6.4 billion in the prior year, reflecting improved credit
performance in the consumer portfolio, and reductions in the wholesale
portfolio including repayments and loan sales.
•Firmwide average core loans and core loans excluding CIB both
increased 7%.
Selected capital-related metrics
•The Firm’s Basel III Fully Phased-In CET1 capital was $183.5 billion,
and the Standardized and Advanced CET1 ratios were 12.0% and
12.9%, respectively.
•The Firm’s Fully Phased-In supplementary leverage ratio (“SLR”) was
6.4%.
•The Firm continued to grow tangible book value per share (“TBVPS”),
ending 2018 at $56.33, up 5%.
ROTCE and TBVPS are each non-GAAP financial measures. Core loans
and each of the Fully Phased-In capital and certain leverage measures are
all considered key performance measures. For a further discussion of each
of these measures, refer to Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm’s
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Key Performance Measures
on pages 57-59, and Capital Risk Management on pages 85-94.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  43
Management’ s discussion and analysis
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•Lines of business highlights
Selected business metrics for each of the Firm’s four lines of business
are presented below for the full year of 2018.
CCB
ROE 28%
 Revenue of $52.1 billion, up 12%; record net income
of $14.9 billion, up 58%
Average core loans up 6%; average deposits of $670
billion, up 5%
Client investment assets of $282 billion, up 3%
Credit card sales volume up 11% and merchant
processing volume up 15%
CIB
ROE 16%
 Record revenue of $36.4 billion, up 5%; record net
income of $11.8 billion, up 9%
Maintained #1 ranking for Global Investment
Banking fees with 8.7% wallet share
Record Equity Markets revenue of $6.9 billion, up
21%
Investment Banking revenue up 2%; Treasury
Services revenue up 13%; and Securities Services
revenue up 8%
CB
ROE 20%
 Record revenue of $9.1 billion, up 5%; record net
income of $4.2 billion, up 20%
Average loan balances of $205.5 billion, up 4%
Strong credit quality with net charge-offs of 3 bps
AWM
ROE 31%
 Record revenue of $14.1 billion, up 2%; record net
income of $2.9 billion, up 22%
Average loan balances of $139 billion, up 12%
Assets under management (“AUM”) of $2.0 trillion,
down 2%
For a detailed discussion of results by line of business, refer to the
Business Segment Results on pages 60–61. Credit provided and capital raised
JPMorgan Chase continues to support consumers, businesses and
communities around the globe. The Firm provided credit and raised
capital for wholesale and consumer clients during 2018, consisting of:
$2.5 trillion Total credit provided and capital raised
$227 billion Credit for consumers
$24 billion Credit for U.S. small businesses
$937 billion Credit for corporations
$1.3 trillion Capital raised for corporate clients and non-U.S.
government entities
$57 billion Credit and capital raised for U.S. governments and
nonprofit entities(a)
(a)Includes states, municipalities, hospitals and universities.
44  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
2019 outlook
These current expectations are forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such
forward-looking statements are based on the current beliefs and
expectations of JPMorgan Chase’s management and are subject to
significant risks and uncertainties. For a further discussion of certain of
those risks and uncertainties and the other factors that could cause
JPMorgan Chase’s actual results to differ materially because of those
risks and uncertainties, refer to Forward-Looking Statements on page
147 and the Risk Factors section on pages 7–28 . There is no assurance
that actual results in 2019 will be in line with the outlook set forth
below, and the Firm does not undertake to update any forward-looking
statements.
JPMorgan Chase’s outlook for 2019 should be viewed against the
backdrop of the global and U.S. economies, financial markets activity,
the geopolitical environment, the competitive environment, client and
customer activity levels, and regulatory and legislative developments in
the U.S. and other countries where the Firm does business. Each of
these factors will affect the performance of the Firm and its lines of
business. The Firm expects that it will continue to make appropriate
adjustments to its businesses and operations in response to ongoing
developments in the legal, regulatory, business and economic
environments in which it operates. Firmwide
•Management expects full-year 2019 net interest income, on a managed
basis, to be in excess of $58 billion, reflecting the annualized impact of
2018 interest rate increases, as well as expected loan and deposit
growth.
•The Firm takes a disciplined approach to managing its expenses, while
investing for growth and innovation. As a result, management expects
Firmwide adjusted expense for the full-year 2019 to be less than $66
billion.
•The Firm continues to experience charge-off rates at very low levels,
reflecting favorable credit trends across the consumer and wholesale
portfolios. Management expects full-year 2019 net charge-offs to be
less than $5.5 billion, higher than 2018, driven by growth.
First-quarter 2019
•Management expects the first-quarter 2019 net interest income, on a
managed basis, to be approximately flat compared with the fourth-
quarter of 2018.
•Firmwide adjusted expense for the first-quarter 2019 is expected to be
up mid-single digits compared with the first quarter of 2018.
•Markets revenue for the first-quarter 2019 is expected to be lower when
compared with the prior-year quarter by high-teens percentage points on
a reported basis, and by low double-digit percentage points excluding
the impact of the recognition and measurement accounting standard in
the first quarter of 2018, depending on market conditions.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  45
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Business Developments
Expected departure of the U.K. from the EU
In 2016, the U.K. voted to withdraw from the European Union (“EU”),
and in March 2017, the U.K. invoked Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty,
which commenced withdrawal negotiations with the EU. As a result,
the U.K. is scheduled to depart from the EU on March 29, 2019.
Negotiations regarding the terms of the U.K.’s withdrawal continue
between the U.K. and the EU, although the situation remains highly
uncertain.
The Firm has a long-standing presence in the U.K., which currently
serves as the regional headquarters of the Firm’s operations in over 30
countries across Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (“EMEA”). In the
region, the Firm serves clients and customers across its business
segments. The Firm has approximately 16,000 employees in the U.K.,
of which approximately two-thirds are in London, with operational and
technology support centers in locations such as Bournemouth,
Glasgow and Edinburgh.
The Firm has been preparing for and continues to make significant
progress in its readiness for the U.K.’s expected withdrawal from the
EU, which is commonly referred to as “Brexit.” JPMorgan Chase
established a Firmwide Brexit Implementation program in 2017. The
program covers strategic implementation across all impacted
businesses and functions. The program’s objective is to deliver the
Firm’s capabilities on “day one” of the U.K.’s withdrawal across all
impacted legal entities. The program includes an ongoing assessment
of implementation risks including political, legal and regulatory risks
and plans for addressing and mitigating those risks. The Firm is also
monitoring the expected macroeconomic developments associated with
a no-deal scenario and has undertaken stress testing covering credit
and market risk to assess potential impacts.
Significant uncertainty remains around the U.K.’s expected departure
from the EU, including the possibility that the U.K. departs without
any agreement being reached on how U.K. financial services firms will
conduct business within the EU (i.e., “a no-deal scenario”).
The Firm is planning for a U.K. withdrawal in the event that an
agreement is reached, as well as for a no-deal scenario. Significant
uncertainties exist under either potential outcome. For example, in
planning for the U.K. withdrawal from the EU under a no-deal
scenario, the Firm is focused on the following key areas to ensure
continuation of service to its EU clients: regulatory and legal entity
readiness; client readiness; and business and operational readiness.
Regulatory and legal entity readiness
The Firm intends to leverage its existing EU legal entities, in Germany,
Luxembourg and Ireland to conduct broader financial service
activities. These legal entities are in advanced stages of readiness,
including governance, infrastructure, capital, local regulatory licenses and branch
authorizations, as needed. The Firm anticipates that its EU legal
entities will be ready to service its EU clients in March 2019, if
required. There are some dependencies on final authorizations from the
European Central Bank and jurisdictional National Competent
Authorities to carry out new activity in the EU legal entities.
Client readiness
Where required, agreements with the Firm’s EU clients are being re-
documented from current U.K. legal entities to existing EU legal
entities to ensure continuation of service. This process involves
establishing new agreements such as ISDA master agreements between
clients and the relevant EU legal entity. There is a risk that not all
clients will have the appropriate legal and operational arrangements in
place upon the U.K.’s withdrawal from the EU. The Firm continues to
actively engage with its clients to ensure preparedness and, to the
extent possible, minimize operational disruption.
Business and operational readiness
The Firm is expecting to add several hundred employee positions in its
various EU locations, including individuals who the Firm expects to
relocate from the U.K. The Firm is preparing to be operational in the
EU across all in-scope businesses and functions, including the build-
out of technology, processes and controls, and the necessary resourcing
in the EU locations across first, second and third line of defense
functions.
The Firm and its EU legal entities’ access to market infrastructures
such as trading venues, central counterparties (“CCPs”) and central
settlement systems (“CSDs”) will need to be adjusted to comply with
the evolving regulatory framework. Some uncertainty remains with
respect to the readiness of the overall market ecosystem and
connectivity between participants. The Firm continues to monitor the
regulatory landscape and is preparing to take mitigating action, as
needed, specifically in areas such as “contract continuity” that would
allow U.K. entities to continue servicing trade lifecycle events.
In the event that the U.K.’s withdrawal from the EU is delayed through
a transition deal or another mechanism, the Firm would have the
required operational capabilities to conduct business from its EU legal
entities, but the timing of any changes would be re-assessed to ensure
that a strategic approach is taken. The Firm continues to closely
monitor all negotiations and legislative developments and has
developed an implementation plan that allows for flexibility given the
continued uncertainty.
46  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
LIBOR transition
The Financial Stability Board (“FSB”) and the Financial Stability
Oversight Council (“FSOC”) have observed that the secular decline in
interbank short-term funding poses structural risks for unsecured
benchmark interest rates such as Interbank Offered Rates (“IBORs”),
and therefore regulators and market participants in various
jurisdictions have been working to identify alternative reference rates
that are compliant with the International Organization of Securities
Commission’s standards for transaction-based benchmarks. In the
U.S., the Alternative Reference Rates Committee (the “ARRC”), a
group of market and official sector participants, identified the Secured
Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) as its recommended alternative
benchmark rate. Other alternative reference rates have been
recommended in other jurisdictions.
IBORs are referenced in approximately $370 trillion of wholesale and
consumer transactions globally spanning a broad range of financial
products and contracts. Without advance transition planning for
alternative benchmarks, sudden cessation of those broadly referenced
rates could cause significant disruptions to gross flows of floating-rate
payments and receipts. An abrupt cessation could also impair the
normal functioning of a variety of markets, including commercial and
consumer lending.
JPMorgan Chase established a Firmwide LIBOR Transition program in
early 2018. The Firmwide CFO and the CEO of the CIB oversee the
program as senior sponsors. When assessing risks associated with
IBOR transition, the program considers three possible scenarios:
disorderly transition, measured/regulated transition, and IBOR in
continuity. These risks will continue to be monitored, along with any
new risks that emerge as the program progresses. Plans to mitigate the
risks associated with IBOR transition have been identified, with some
already in the early stages of implementation. Model risk, for example,
will be mitigated by the identification and migration of swap curves
based on IBORs to new alternative reference rates. Market participants are working closely with public sector
representation as part of National Working Groups (“NWGs”) towards
the common goal of facilitating an orderly transition from IBORs.
Current NWG efforts include the development of cash and derivative
markets referencing alternative reference rates, as well as the
development of industry consensus for fallback language that would
determine the rates to use in various IBOR-indexed contracts when a
particular IBOR ceases to be produced. The Firm is encouraging its
clients to actively participate in industry consultations on fallback
language in order to ensure the broadest possible industry engagement
in and understanding of IBOR transition. The Firm continues to
monitor the transition by clients from the current IBOR-referencing
products to products referencing the new alternative reference rates.
NWGs are also working with accounting standard setters to manage
the accounting implications of amending existing contracts to add
fallback language and to change reference rates. Current efforts
include the identification of potential accounting impacts and potential
alternatives to mitigate those impacts through interpretation of existing
accounting rules, or through transition relief from FASB and IASB
standard setting.
The Firm continues to develop and implement plans to appropriately
mitigate the risks associated with IBOR discontinuation as identified
alternative reference rates develop, and liquidity in the markets
referencing them increases. The Firm will continue to engage with
regulators as the transition progresses.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  47
Management’ s discussion and analysis
CONSOLIDA TED RESUL TS OF OPERA TIONS
This section provides a comparative discussion of JPMorgan Chase’s
Consolidated Results of Operations on a reported basis for the three-
year period ended December 31, 2018, unless otherwise specified.
Factors that relate primarily to a single business segment are
discussed in more detail within that business segment. For a discussion
of the Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm that affect the
Consolidated Results of Operations, refer to pages 141-143.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Firm adopted several new accounting
standards. Certain of the new accounting standards were applied
retrospectively and, accordingly, prior period amounts were revised.
For additional information, refer to Note 1.
Revenue   
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)  
2018 2017  2016
Investment banking fees $ 7,550 $ 7,412  $ 6,572
Principal transactions 12,059 11,347  11,566
Lending- and deposit-related fees 6,052 5,933  5,774
Asset management, administration and
commissions 17,118 16,287  15,364
Investment securities gains/(losses) (395) (66) 141
Mortgage fees and related income 1,254 1,616  2,491
Card income 4,989 4,433  4,779
Other income (a) 5,343 3,646  3,799
Noninter est revenue 53,970 50,608  50,486
Net interest income 55,059 50,097  46,083
Total net r evenue $ 109,029 $ 100,705  $ 96,569
(a)Included operating lease income of $4.5 billion , $3.6 billion  and $2.7 billion  for the years
ended December 31, 2018 , 2017  and 2016 , respectively .
2018 compared with 2017
Investment banking fees increased from a strong prior year, with
overall share gains, reflecting:
•higher advisory fees driven by a higher number of large completed
transactions, and
•higher equity underwriting fees driven by a higher share of fees,
reflecting strong performance across products
predominantly offset by
•lower debt underwriting fees primarily driven by declines in
industry-wide fee levels.
For additional information, refer to CIB segment results on pages 66-
70 and Note 6.
Principal transactions revenue increased primarily reflecting higher
revenue in CIB driven by:
•Equity Markets with strength across products, primarily in
derivatives and prime brokerage, reflecting strong client activity, and
•Fixed Income Markets reflecting strong performance in Currencies
& Emerging Markets, and higher revenue in Commodities compared
to a challenging prior year, largely offset by lower revenue in Credit, •the results also reflect a loss in Credit Adjustments & Other, largely
driven by higher funding spreads on derivatives.
The increase in CIB was partially offset by private equity losses
reflecting markdowns on certain legacy private equity investments
compared with gains in the prior year in Corporate.
For additional information, refer to CIB and Corporate segment results
on pages 66-70 and pages 77–78, respectively, and Note 6.
Asset management, administration and commissions revenue
increased reflecting:
•higher asset management fees in AWM and CCB driven by higher
average market levels and the cumulative impact of net inflows. For
AWM, these were partially offset by fee compression and lower
performance fees
•higher brokerage commissions driven by higher volumes in CIB and
AWM, and higher asset-based fees in CIB.
For additional information, refer to AWM, CCB and CIB segment
results on pages 74–76, pages 62–65 and pages 66-70, respectively,
and Note 6.
For information on lending- and deposit-related fees, refer to the
segment results for CCB on pages 62–65, CIB on pages 66-70, and CB
on pages 71-73 and Note 6; on securities gains, refer to the Corporate
segment discussion on pages 77–78.
Investment securities losses increased due to sales related to
repositioning the investment securities portfolio.
Mortgage fees and related income decreased driven by:
•lower net production revenue reflecting lower production margins
and volumes, as well as the impact of a loan sale,
partially offset by
•higher net mortgage servicing revenue reflecting higher MSR risk
management results, predominantly offset by lower servicing
revenue on a lower level of third-party loans serviced.
For further information, refer to CCB segment results on pages 62–65,
Note 6 and 15.
Card income increased driven by:
•lower new account origination costs, and higher merchant
processing fees on higher volumes,
largely offset by
•lower net interchange income reflecting higher rewards costs and
partner payments, largely offset by higher card sales volumes. The
rewards costs included an adjustment to the credit card rewards
liability of approximately $330 million, recorded in the second
quarter of 2018, driven by an increase in redemption rate
assumptions.
For further information, refer to CCB segment results on pages 62–65
and Note 6.
48  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Other income increased reflecting:
•higher operating lease income from growth in auto operating lease
volume in CCB
•fair value gains of $505 million recognized in the first quarter of
2018 related to the adoption of the new recognition and
measurement accounting guidance for certain equity investments
previously held at cost
•the absence of the impact related to the enactment of the TCJA,
which reduced the value of certain of CIB’s tax-oriented investments
by $520 million in the prior year
partially offset by
•lower investment valuations in AWM, and
•the absence of a legal benefit of $645 million that was recorded in
the prior year in Corporate related to a settlement with the FDIC
receivership for Washington Mutual and with Deutsche Bank as
trustee of certain Washington Mutual trusts.
For further information, refer to Note 6.
Net interest income increased driven by the impact of higher rates,
loan growth across the businesses, and Card margin expansion,
partially offset by lower CIB Markets net interest income. The Firm’s
average interest-earning assets were $2.2 trillion, up $49 billion from
the prior year, and the net interest yield on these assets, on an FTE
basis, was 2.50%, an increase of 14 basis points from the prior year.
The net interest yield excluding CIB Markets was 3.25%, an increase
of 40 basis points. Net interest yield excluding CIB markets is a non-
GAAP financial measure. For a further discussion of this measure,
refer to Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm’s Use of Non-
GAAP Financial Measures and Key Performance Measures on pages
57-59.
2017 compared with 2016
Investment banking fees increased reflecting higher debt and equity
underwriting fees in CIB. The increase in debt underwriting fees was
driven by a higher share of fees and an overall increase in industry-
wide fees; and the increase in equity underwriting fees was driven by
growth in industry-wide issuance, including a strong initial public
offering (“IPO”) market.
Principal transactions revenue decreased compared with a strong
prior year in CIB, primarily reflecting:
•lower Fixed Income-related revenue driven by sustained low
volatility and tighter credit spreads
partially offset by
•higher Equity-related revenue primarily in Prime Services, and
•higher Lending-related revenue reflecting lower fair value losses on
hedges of accrual loans. Asset management, administration and commissions revenue
increased as a result of higher asset management fees in AWM and
CCB, and higher asset-based fees in CIB, both driven by higher market
levels
Mortgage fees and related income decreased driven by lower MSR
risk management results, lower net production revenue on lower
margins and volumes, and lower servicing revenue on lower average
third-party loans serviced.
Card income decreased predominantly driven by higher credit card
new account origination costs, largely offset
by higher card-related fees, primarily annual fees.
Other income decreased primarily due to:
•lower other income in CIB largely driven by a $520 million impact
related to the enactment of the TCJA, which reduced the value of
certain of CIB’s tax-oriented investments, and
•the absence in the current year of gains from
–the sale of Visa Europe interests in CCB,
–the redemption of guaranteed capital debt securities (“trust
preferred securities”), and
–the disposal of an asset in AWM
partially offset by
•higher operating lease income reflecting growth in auto operating
lease volume in CCB, and
•a legal benefit of $645 million recorded in the second quarter of
2017 in Corporate related to a settlement with the FDIC receivership
for Washington Mutual and with Deutsche Bank as trustee of certain
Washington Mutual trusts.
Net interest income increased primarily driven by the net impact of
higher rates and loan growth across the businesses, partially offset by
declines in Markets net interest income in CIB. The Firm’s average
interest-earning assets were $2.2 trillion, up $79 billion from the prior
year, and the net interest yield on these assets, on a fully taxable
equivalent (“FTE”) basis, was 2.36%, an increase of 11 basis points
from the prior year. The net interest yield excluding CIB Markets was
2.85%, an increase of 26 basis points from the prior year.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  49
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Provision for credit losses   
Year ended December 31,    
(in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Consumer, excluding credit card $ (63)$ 620 $ 467
Credit card 4,818 4,973 4,042
Total consumer 4,755 5,593 4,509
Wholesale 116 (303) 852
Total provision for credit losses $ 4,871 $ 5,290 $ 5,361
2018 compared with 2017
The provision for credit losses decreased as a result of a decline in the
consumer provision, partially offset by an increase in the wholesale
provision
•the decrease in the consumer, excluding credit card portfolio in
CCB was due to
–lower net charge-offs in the residential real estate portfolio, largely
driven by recoveries from loan sales, and
–lower net charge-offs in the auto portfolio
partially offset by
–a $250 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses in the
residential real estate portfolio — PCI, reflecting continued
improvement in home prices and lower delinquencies; the
reduction was $75 million lower than the prior year for the
residential real estate portfolio — non credit-impaired
•the prior year also included a net $218 million write-down recorded
in connection with the sale of the student loan portfolio, and
•the decrease in the credit card portfolio was due to
–a $300 million addition to the allowance for loan losses, reflecting
loan growth and higher loss rates, as anticipated; the addition was
$550 million lower than the prior year,
largely offset by
–higher net charge-offs due to seasoning of more recent vintages, as
anticipated, and •in wholesale , the current period expense of $116 million reflected
additions to the allowance for loan losses from select client
downgrades,
largely offset by
–other net portfolio activity, including a reduction in the allowance
for loan losses related to a single name in the Oil & Gas portfolio
in the first quarter of 2018, compared to a net benefit of $303
million in the prior year. The prior year benefit reflected a
reduction in the allowance for loan losses on credit quality
improvements in the Oil & Gas, Natural Gas Pipelines, and Metals
and Mining portfolios.
For a more detailed discussion of the credit portfolio and the allowance
for credit losses, refer to the segment discussions of CCB on pages 62–65,
CIB on pages 66-70, CB on pages 71-73, the Allowance for Credit Losses
on pages 120–122 and Note 13.
2017 compared with 2016
The provision for credit losses decreased as a result of:
•a net $422 million reduction in the wholesale allowance for credit
losses, reflecting credit quality improvements in the Oil & Gas, Natural
Gas Pipelines, and Metals & Mining portfolios, compared with an
addition of $511 million in the prior year driven by downgrades in the
same portfolios
predominantly offset by
•a higher consumer provision driven by
–$450 million of higher net charge-offs, primarily in the credit card
portfolio due to growth in newer vintages which, as anticipated, have
higher loss rates than the more seasoned portion of the portfolio,
partially offset by a decrease in net charge-offs in the residential real
estate portfolio reflecting continued improvement in home prices and
delinquencies,
–a $416 million higher addition to the allowance for credit losses
related to the credit card portfolio driven by higher loss rates and
loan growth, and a lower reduction in the allowance for the
residential real estate portfolio predominantly driven by continued
improvement in home prices and delinquencies, and
–a net $218 million write-down recorded in connection with the sale
of the student loan portfolio.
50  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Noninterest expense   
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Compensation expense $ 33,117 $ 31,208 $ 30,203
Noncompensation expense:   
Occupancy 3,952 3,723 3,638
Technology, communications and
equipment 8,802 7,715 6,853
Professional and outside services 8,502 7,890 7,526
Marketing 3,290 2,900 2,897
Other(a)(b) 5,731 6,079 5,555
Total noncompensation expense 30,277 28,307 26,469
Total noninterest expense $ 63,394 $ 59,515 $ 56,672
(a)Included Firmwide legal expense/(benefit) of $72 million , $(35) million  and $(317)
million  for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 , respectively .
(b)Included FDIC-related expense of $1.2 billion , $1.5 billion  and $1.3 billion  for the years
ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 , respectively .
2018 compared with 2017
Compensation expense increased driven by investments in headcount
across the businesses, including bankers and advisors, as well as
technology and other support staff, and higher revenue-related
compensation expense largely in CIB.
Noncompensation expense increased as a result of:
•higher depreciation expense due to growth in auto operating lease
volume in CCB
•higher outside services expense primarily due to higher volume-
related transaction costs in CIB and higher external fees on revenue
growth in AWM
•higher investments in technology in the businesses and marketing in
CCB
•a loss of $174 million on the liquidation of a legal entity, recorded in
other expense in Corporate, in the second quarter of 2018, and
•higher legal expense, with a net benefit in the prior year
partially offset by
•lower FDIC-related expense as a result of the elimination of the
surcharge at the end of the third quarter of 2018, and
•the absence of an impairment in CB on certain leased equipment
For additional information on the liquidation of a legal entity, refer to
Note 23.
2017 compared with 2016
Compensation expense increased predominantly driven by
investments in headcount in most businesses, including bankers and
business-related support staff, and higher performance-based
compensation expense, predominantly in AWM. Noncompensation expense increased as a result of:
•higher depreciation expense from growth in auto operating lease
volume in CCB
•contributions to the Firm’s Foundation
•a lower legal net benefit compared to the prior year
•higher FDIC-related expense, and
•an impairment in CB on certain leased equipment, the majority of
which was sold subsequent to year-end
partially offset by
•the absence in the current year of two items totaling $175 million in
CCB related to liabilities from a merchant in bankruptcy and
mortgage servicing reserves
For a discussion of legal expense, refer to Note 29.
Income tax expense    
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except rate)   
2018 2017 2016
Income before income tax expense$ 40,764 $ 35,900 $ 34,536
Income tax expense 8,290 11,459 9,803
Effective tax rate 20.3% 31.9% 28.4%
2018 compared with 2017
The effective tax rate decreased in 2018 driven by
•the impact of the TCJA, including the reduction in the U.S. federal
statutory income tax rate, a $302 million net tax benefit resulting
from changes in the prior year estimates related to the
remeasurement of certain deferred taxes and the deemed repatriation
tax on non-U.S. earnings, and the absence of the initial $1.9 billion
impact from the TCJA’s enactment in December 2017
the reduction in the effective tax rate was partially offset by
•the impact of higher pre-tax income, and the change in mix of
income and expense subject to U.S. federal, state and local taxes.
For further information, refer to Note 24.
2017 compared with 2016
The effective tax rate increased in 2017 driven by:
•a $1.9 billion increase to income tax expense representing the initial
impact of the enactment of the TCJA. The increase was driven by
the deemed repatriation of the Firm’s unremitted non-U.S. earnings
and adjustments to the value of certain tax-oriented investments,
partially offset by a benefit from the revaluation of the Firm’s net
deferred tax liability. The incremental expense resulted in a 5.4
percentage point increase in the Firm’s effective tax rate
partially offset by
•benefits resulting from the vesting of employee share-based awards
related to the appreciation of the Firm’s stock price upon vesting
above their original grant price, and the release of a valuation
allowance.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  51
Management’ s discussion and analysis
CONSOLIDA TED BALANCE SHEETS AND CASH FLOWS ANAL YSIS
Effective January 1, 2018, the Firm adopted several new accounting standards. Certain of the new accounting standards were applied retrospectively
and, accordingly, prior period amounts were revised. For additional information, refer to Note 1.
Consolidated balance sheets analysis
The following is a discussion of the significant changes between December 31, 2018 and 2017.
Selected Consolidated balance sheets data  
December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 Change
Assets  
Cash and due from banks $ 22,324 $ 25,898 (14)%
Deposits with banks 256,469 405,406 (37)
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements 321,588 198,422 62
Securities borrowed 111,995 105,112 7
Trading assets 413,714 381,844 8
Investment securities 261,828 249,958 5
Loans 984,554 930,697 6
Allowance for loan losses (13,445) (13,604) (1)
Loans, net of allowance for loan losses 971,109 917,093 6
Accrued interest and accounts receivable 73,200 67,729 8
Premises and equipment 14,934 14,159 5
Goodwill, MSRs and other intangible assets 54,349 54,392 —
Other assets 121,022 113,587 7
Total assets $ 2,622,532 $ 2,533,600 4 %
Cash and due from banks and deposits with banks decreased
primarily as a result of a shift in the deployment of excess cash in
Treasury and Chief Investment Office (“CIO”) from deposits with
Federal Reserve Banks to other short-term instruments (as noted
below), based on market opportunities. Deposits with banks reflect the
Firm’s placements of its excess cash with various central banks,
including the Federal Reserve Banks.
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale
agreements increased primarily due to a shift in the deployment of
excess cash in Treasury and CIO from deposits with banks to securities
purchased under resale agreements, and higher client-driven market-
making activities in CIB. For additional information on the Firm’s
Liquidity Risk Management, refer to pages 95–100.
Securities borrowed increased driven by higher demand for securities
to cover short positions related to client-driven market-making
activities in CIB.
Trading assets increased as a result of a shift in the deployment of
excess cash in Treasury and CIO from deposits with banks into short-
term instruments as well as client-driven market-making activities in
CIB. For additional information, refer to Derivative contracts on pages
117–118, and Notes 2 and 5.
Investment securities increased primarily due to purchases of U.S.
Treasury Bills, reflecting a shift in the deployment of excess cash in
Treasury and CIO from deposits with banks. The increase was partially
offset by net sales, paydowns and maturities largely of obligations of
U.S. states and municipalities, commercial MBS and non-U.S.
government debt securities. For additional information on investment securities, refer to Corporate segment results on pages 77–78,
Investment Portfolio Risk Management on page 123 and Notes 2 and
10.
Loans increased reflecting:
•higher loans across the wholesale businesses, primarily driven by
commercial and industrial and financial institution clients in CIB
and Wealth Management clients globally in AWM, and
•higher consumer loans driven by retention of originated high-quality
prime mortgages in CCB and AWM, and growth in credit card loans.
These were predominantly offset by mortgage paydowns and loan
sales, lower home equity loans, run-off of PCI loans, and lower auto
loans.
The allowance for loan losses decreased driven by:
•a reduction in the consumer allowance due to a $250 million
reduction in the CCB allowance for loan losses in the residential real
estate PCI portfolio, reflecting continued improvement in home
prices and lower delinquencies, as well as a $187 million reduction
in the allowance for write-offs of PCI loans partially due to loan
sales. These reductions were largely offset by a $300 million
addition to the allowance in the credit card portfolio, due to loan
growth and higher loss rates, as anticipated.
For a more detailed discussion of loans and the allowance for loan
losses, refer to Credit and Investment Risk Management on pages 102-
123, and Notes 2, 3, 12 and 13.
52  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Accrued interest and accounts receivable increased primarily
reflecting higher client receivables related to client-driven activities in
CIB. Other assets increased reflecting higher auto operating lease assets
from growth in business volume in CCB and higher alternative energy
investments in CIB.
For information on Goodwill and MSRs, refer to Note 15.
Selected Consolidated balance sheets data  
December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 Change
Liabilities   
Deposits $ 1,470,666 $ 1,443,982 2
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements 182,320 158,916 15
Short-term borrowings 69,276 51,802 34
Trading liabilities 144,773 123,663 17
Accounts payable and other liabilities 196,710 189,383 4
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities (“VIEs”) 20,241 26,081 (22)
Long-term debt 282,031 284,080 (1)
Total liabilities 2,366,017 2,277,907 4
Stockholders’ equity 256,515 255,693 —
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 2,622,532 $ 2,533,600 4 %
Deposits increased in CIB and CCB, largely offset by decreases in
AWM and CB.
•The increase in CIB was predominantly driven by growth in
operating deposits related to client activity in CIB’s Treasury
Services business, and in CCB reflecting the continuation of growth
from new accounts.
•The decrease in AWM was driven by balance migration
predominantly into the Firm’s higher-yielding investment-related
products. The decrease in CB was driven by a reduction in non-
operating deposits.
For more information, refer to the Liquidity Risk Management
discussion on pages 95–100; and Notes 2
and 17.
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under
repurchase agreements increased reflecting higher client-driven
market-making activities and higher secured financing of trading
assets-debt and equity instruments in CIB.
Short-term borrowings increased reflecting short-term advances from
Federal Home Loan Banks (“FHLBs”) and the net issuance of
commercial paper in Treasury and CIO primarily for short-term
liquidity management. For additional information, refer to Liquidity
Risk Management on pages 95–100. Trading liabilities increased predominantly as a result of client-driven
market-making activities in CIB, which resulted in higher levels of
short positions in equity instruments in Equity Markets, including
prime brokerage. For additional information, refer to Derivative
contracts on pages 117–118, and Notes 2 and 5.
Accounts payable and other liabilities increased partly as a result of
higher client payables related to prime brokerage activities in CIB.
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs decreased due to
net maturities of credit card securitizations. For further information on
Firm-sponsored VIEs and loan securitization trusts, refer to Off-
Balance Sheet Arrangements on pages 55–56 and Note 14 and 27.
Long-term debt decreased primarily driven by lower FHLB advances,
predominantly offset by net issuance of structured notes in CIB, as
well as net issuance of senior debt in Treasury and CIO. For additional
information on the Firm’s long-term debt activities, refer to Liquidity
Risk Management on pages 95–100 and Note 19.
For information on changes in stockholders’ equity, refer to page 153,
and on the Firm’s capital actions, refer to Capital actions on pages 91-
92.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  53
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Consolidated cash flows analysis
The following is a discussion of cash flow activities during the years
ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.
(in millions) Year ended December 31,
 2018 2017 2016
Net cash provided by/(used in)   
Operating activities  $ 14,187 $ (10,827)$ 21,884
Investing activities  (197,993) 28,249 (89,202)
Financing activities  34,158 14,642 98,271
Effect of exchange rate changes
on cash  (2,863) 8,086 (1,482)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash
and due from banks  $ (152,511)$ 40,150 $ 29,471
Operating activities
JPMorgan Chase’s operating assets and liabilities primarily support the
Firm’s lending and capital markets activities. These assets and
liabilities can vary significantly in the normal course of business due to
the amount and timing of cash flows, which are affected by client-
driven and risk management activities and market conditions. The
Firm believes cash flows from operations, available cash and other
liquidity sources, and its capacity to generate cash through secured and
unsecured sources are sufficient to meet its operating liquidity needs.
•In 2018, cash provided primarily reflected net income excluding
noncash adjustments, increased trading liabilities and accounts
payable and other liabilities, partially offset by an increase in trading
assets, net originations of loans held-for-sale, and higher securities
borrowed and other assets.
•In 2017, cash used primarily reflected a decrease in trading liabilities
and accounts payable and other liabilities, and an increase in accrued
interest and accounts receivable, partially offset by net income
excluding noncash adjustments and a decrease in trading assets.
•In 2016, cash provided primarily reflected net income excluding
noncash adjustments, partially offset by an increase in trading assets. Investing activities
The Firm’s investing activities predominantly include originating held-
for-investment loans and investing in the securities portfolio and other
short-term instruments.
•In 2018, cash used reflected an increase in securities purchased
under resale agreements, higher net originations of loans and net
purchases of investment securities.
•In 2017, cash provided reflected net proceeds from paydowns,
maturities, sales and purchases of investment securities and a
decrease in securities purchased under resale agreements, partially
offset by net originations of loans.
•In 2016, cash used reflected net originations of loans, and an
increase in securities purchased under resale agreements.
Financing activities
The Firm’s financing activities include acquiring customer deposits
and issuing long-term debt, as well as preferred and common stock.
•In 2018, cash provided reflected higher deposits, short-term
borrowings, and securities loaned or sold under repurchase
agreements.
•In 2017, cash provided reflected higher deposits and short-term
borrowings, partially offset by a net decrease in long-term
borrowings.
•In 2016, cash provided reflected higher deposits, net proceeds from
long-term borrowings, and an increase in securities loaned or sold
under repurchase agreements.
•For all periods, cash was used for repurchases of common stock and
cash dividends on common and preferred stock.
* * *
For a further discussion of the activities affecting the Firm’s cash
flows, refer to Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis on pages 52–53 ,
Capital Risk Management on pages 85-94, and Liquidity Risk
Management on pages 95–100.
54  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
OFF-BALANCE SHEET  ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL  CASH OBLIGA TIONS
In the normal course of business, the Firm enters into various off-
balance sheet arrangements and contractual obligations that may
require future cash payments. Certain obligations are recognized on-
balance sheet, while others are off-balance sheet under accounting
principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“U.S. GAAP”).
Special-purpose entities
The Firm is involved with several types of off–balance sheet
arrangements, including through nonconsolidated special-purpose
entities (“SPEs”), which are a type of VIE, and through lending-related
financial instruments (e.g., commitments and guarantees). The Firm holds capital, as deemed appropriate, against all SPE-related
transactions and related exposures, such as derivative contracts and
lending-related commitments and guarantees.
The Firm has no commitments to issue its own stock to support any
SPE transaction, and its policies require that transactions with SPEs be
conducted at arm’s length and reflect market pricing. Consistent with
this policy, no JPMorgan Chase employee is permitted to invest in
SPEs with which the Firm is involved where such investment would
violate the Firm’s Code of Conduct.
The table below provides an index of where in this 2018 Form 10-K a discussion of the Firm’s various off-balance sheet arrangements can be found.
In addition, refer to Note 1 for information about the Firm’s consolidation policies.
Type of off-balance sheet arrangement Location of disclosur e Page r eferences
Special-purpose entities: variable interests and other obligations,
including contingent obligations, arising from variable interests in
nonconsolidated VIEsRefer to Note 14 244–251
Off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments, guarantees,
and other commitmentsRefer to Note 27 271–276
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  55
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Contractual cash obligations
The accompanying table summarizes, by remaining maturity,
JPMorgan Chase’s significant contractual cash obligations at
December 31, 2018. The contractual cash obligations included in the
table below reflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally
enforceable contracts with terms that are both fixed and determinable.
Excluded from the below table are certain liabilities with variable cash
flows and/or no obligation to return a stated amount of principal at
maturity. The carrying amount of on-balance sheet obligations on the
Consolidated balance sheets may differ from the minimum contractual
amount of the obligations reported below. For a discussion of
mortgage repurchase liabilities and other obligations, refer to Note 27.
Contractual cash obligations    
By remaining maturity at December 31,
(in millions)2018 2017
2019 2020-2021 2022-2023 After 2023 Total Total
On-balance sheet obligations    
Deposits(a) $ 1,447,407$ 8,958$ 6,227$ 5,439$ 1,468,031$ 1,437,464
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under
repurchase agreements 181,491 458 — 371 182,320 158,916
Short-term borrowings(a) 62,393 — — — 62,393 42,664
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs 13,502 5,075 1,400 281 20,258 26,036
Long-term debt(a) 26,889 75,816 37,171 118,782 258,658 260,895
Other(b)(c) 5,592 1,687 1,669 2,846 11,794 13,613
Total on-balance sheet obligations 1,737,274 91,994 46,467 127,719 2,003,454 1,939,588
Off-balance sheet obligations    
Unsettled resale and securities borrowed agreements(d) 102,008 — — — 102,008 76,859
Contractual interest payments(e) 10,960 11,501 8,295 27,496 58,252 54,103
Operating leases(f) 1,561 2,840 2,111 4,480 10,992 9,877
Equity investment commitments(c)(g) 262 2 — 7 271 117
Contractual purchases and capital expenditures(c) 1,948 1,048 543 60 3,599 3,743
Obligations under co-brand programs 356 728 566 287 1,937 1,434
Total off-balance sheet obligations 117,095 16,119 11,515 32,330 177,059 146,133
Total contractual cash obligations $ 1,854,369$ 108,113$ 57,982$ 160,049$ 2,180,513$ 2,085,721
(a)Excludes structured notes on which the Firm is not obligated to return a stated amount of principal at the maturity of the notes, but is obligated to return an amount based on the
performance of the structured notes.
(b)Primarily includes dividends declared on preferred and common stock, deferred annuity contracts, pension and other postretirement employee benefit obligations, insurance
liabilities and income taxes payable associated with the deemed repatriation under the TCJA.
(c)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
(d)For further information, refer to unsettled resale and securities borrowed agreements in Note 27.
(e)Includes accrued interest and future contractual interest obligations. Excludes interest related to structured notes for which the Firm’s payment obligation is based on the performance
of certain benchmarks.
(f)Includes noncancelable operating leases for premises and equipment used primarily for banking purposes. Excludes the benefit of noncancelable sublease rentals of $825 million and
$1.0 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Refer to Note 28 for more information on lease commitments.
(g)Included unfunded commitments of $40 million at both December 31, 2018 and 2017, to third-party private equity funds, and $231 million and $77 million of unfunded
commitments at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, to other equity investments.
56  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
EXPLANA TION AND RECONCILIA TION OF THE FIRM’S USE OF NON-GAAP  FINANCIAL  MEASURES AND
KEY  PERFORMANCE MEASURES
Non-GAAP financial measures
The Firm prepares its Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance
with U.S. GAAP; these financial statements appear on pages 150-154.
That presentation, which is referred to as “reported” basis, provides the
reader with an understanding of the Firm’s results that can be tracked
consistently from year-to-year and enables a comparison of the Firm’s
performance with other companies’ U.S. GAAP financial statements.
In addition to analyzing the Firm’s results on a reported basis,
management reviews Firmwide results, including the overhead ratio,
on a “managed” basis; these Firmwide managed basis results are non-
GAAP financial measures. The Firm also reviews the results of the
lines of business on a managed basis. The Firm’s definition of
managed basis starts, in each case, with the reported U.S. GAAP
results and includes certain reclassifications to present total net
revenue for the Firm (and each of the reportable business segments) on
an FTE basis. Accordingly, revenue from investments that receive tax
credits and tax-exempt securities is presented in the managed results
on a basis comparable to taxable investments and securities. These financial measures allow management to assess the comparability of
revenue from year-to-year arising from both taxable and tax-exempt
sources. The corresponding income tax impact related to tax-exempt
items is recorded within income tax expense. These adjustments have
no impact on net income as reported by the Firm as a whole or by the
lines of business.
Management also uses certain non-GAAP financial measures at the
Firm and business-segment level, because these other non-GAAP
financial measures provide information to investors about the
underlying operational performance and trends of the Firm or of the
particular business segment, as the case may be, and, therefore,
facilitate a comparison of the Firm or the business segment with the
performance of its relevant competitors. For additional information on
these non-GAAP measures, refer to Business Segment Results on
pages 60-78. Non-GAAP financial measures used by the Firm may not
be comparable to similarly named non-GAAP financial measures used
by other companies.
The following summary table provides a reconciliation from the Firm’s reported U.S. GAAP results to managed basis.
 2018  2017 2016
Year ended
December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)Reported
ResultsFully taxable-
equivalent
adjustments(a)Managed
basis  Reported
ResultsFully taxable-
equivalent
adjustments(a)Managed
basisReported
ResultsFully taxable-
equivalent
adjustments(a)Managed
basis
Other income $ 5,343 $ 1,877 (b) $ 7,220 $ 3,646 $ 2,704 $ 6,350 $ 3,799 $ 2,265 $ 6,064
Total noninterest revenue 53,970 1,877 55,847 50,608 2,704 53,312 50,486 2,265 52,751
Net interest income 55,059 628 (b) 55,687 50,097 1,313 51,410 46,083 1,209 47,292
Total net revenue 109,029 2,505 111,534 100,705 4,017 104,722 96,569 3,474 100,043
Pre-provision profit 45,635 2,505 48,140 41,190 4,017 45,207 39,897 3,474 43,371
Income before income tax expense 40,764 2,505 43,269 35,900 4,017 39,917 34,536 3,474 38,010
Income tax expense 8,290 2,505 (b) 10,795 11,459 4,017 15,476 9,803 3,474 13,277
Overhead ratio 58% NM 57% 59% NM 57% 59% NM 57%
Effective January 1, 2018, the Firm adopted several new accounting standards. Certain of the new accounting standards were applied retrospectively and, accordingly, prior period
amounts were revised. For additional information, refer to Note 1.
(a) Predominantly recognized in CIB and CB business segments and Corporate.
(b) The decrease in fully taxable-equivalent adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2018, reflects the impact of the TCJA.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  57
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Net interest income and net yield excluding CIB’s Markets
businesses
In addition to reviewing net interest income and the net interest yield
on a managed basis, management also reviews these metrics excluding
CIB’s Markets businesses, as shown below; these metrics, which
exclude CIB’s Markets businesses, are non-GAAP financial measures.
Management reviews these metrics to assess the performance of the
Firm’s lending, investing (including asset-liability management) and
deposit-raising activities. The resulting metrics that exclude CIB’s
Markets businesses are referred to as non-markets-related net interest
income and net yield. CIB’s Markets businesses are Fixed Income
Markets and Equity Markets. Management believes that disclosure of
non-markets-related net interest income and net yield provides
investors and analysts with other measures by which to analyze the
non-markets-related business trends of the Firm and provides a
comparable measure to other financial institutions that are primarily
focused on lending, investing and deposit-raising activities.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except rates) 2018 2017 2016
Net interest income –
managed basis(a)(b) $ 55,687$ 51,410$ 47,292
Less: CIB Markets net interest
income(c) 3,087 4,630 6,334
Net interest income
excluding CIB Markets(a)$ 52,600$ 46,780$ 40,958
Average interest-earning
assets $ 2,229,188$ 2,180,592$ 2,101,604
Less: Average CIB Markets
interest-earning assets(c) 609,635 540,835 520,307
Average interest-earning
assets excluding CIB
Markets $ 1,619,553$ 1,639,757$ 1,581,297
Net interest yield on average
interest-earning assets –
managed basis 2.50% 2.36% 2.25%
Net interest yield on average
CIB Markets interest-earning
assets(c) 0.51 0.86 1.22
Net interest yield on average
interest-earning assets
excluding CIB Markets 3.25% 2.85% 2.59%
(a)Interest includes the effect of related hedges. Taxable-equivalent amounts are used
where applicable.
(b)For a reconciliation of net interest income on a reported and managed basis, refer to
reconciliation from the Firm’s reported U.S. GAAP results to managed basis on page
57.
(c)For further information on CIB’s Markets businesses, refer to page 69. 
Calculation of certain U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures
Certain U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures are calculated as follows:
Book value per share (“BVPS”)
Common stockholders’ equity at period-end /
Common shares at period-end
Overhead ratio
Total noninterest expense / Total net revenue
Return on assets (“ROA”)
Reported net income / Total average assets
Return on common equity (“ROE”)
Net income* / Average common stockholders’ equity
Return on tangible common equity (“ROTCE”)
Net income* / Average tangible common equity
Tangible book value per share (“TBVPS”)
Tangible common equity at period-end / Common shares at period-end
* Represents net income applicable to common equity
The Firm also reviews adjusted expense, which is noninterest expense
excluding Firmwide legal expense and is therefore a non-GAAP
financial measure. Additionally, certain credit metrics and ratios
disclosed by the Firm exclude PCI loans, and are therefore non-GAAP
measures. Management believes these measures help investors
understand the effect of these items on reported results and provide an
alternate presentation of the Firm’s performance. For additional
information on credit metrics and ratios excluding PCI loans, refer to
Credit and Investment Risk Management on pages 102-123.
58  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Tangible common equity, ROTCE and TBVPS
Tangible common equity (“TCE”), ROTCE and TBVPS are each non-GAAP financial measures. TCE represents the Firm’s common stockholders’
equity (i.e., total stockholders’ equity less preferred stock) less goodwill and identifiable intangible assets (other than MSRs), net of related deferred
tax liabilities. ROTCE measures the Firm’s net income applicable to common equity as a percentage of average TCE. TBVPS represents the Firm’s
TCE at period-end divided by common shares at period-end. TCE, ROTCE and TBVPS are utilized by the Firm, as well as investors and analysts,
in assessing the Firm’s use of equity.
The following summary table provides a reconciliation from the Firm’s common stockholders’ equity to TCE.
 Period-end Average
 
Dec 31,
2018Dec 31,
2017Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except per share and ratio data) 2018 2017 2016
Common stockholders’ equity $ 230,447$ 229,625 $ 229,222 $ 230,350$ 224,631
Less: Goodwill 47,471 47,507 47,491 47,317 47,310
Less: Other intangible assets 748 855 807 832 922
Add: Certain deferred tax liabilities(a)(b) 2,280 2,204 2,231 3,116 3,212
Tangible common equity $ 184,508$ 183,467 $ 183,155 $ 185,317$ 179,611
Return on tangible common equity NA NA 17% 12% 13%
Tangible book value per share $ 56.33$ 53.56 NA NA NA
(a)Represents deferred tax liabilities related to tax-deductible goodwill and to identifiable intangibles created in nontaxable transactions, which are netted against goodwill and other
intangibles when calculating TCE.
(b)Amounts presented for December 31, 2017 and later periods include the effect from revaluation of the Firm’s net deferred tax liability as a result of the TCJA.
Key performance measures
The Firm considers the following to be key regulatory capital
measures:
•Capital, risk-weighted assets (“RWA”), and capital and leverage
ratios presented under Basel III Standardized and Advanced Fully
Phased-In rules, and
•SLR calculated under Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In rules.
The Firm, as well as banking regulators, investors and analysts, use
these measures to assess the Firm’s regulatory capital position and to
compare the Firm’s regulatory capital to that of other financial services
companies.
For additional information on these measures, refer to Capital Risk
Management on pages 85-94. Core loans is also considered a key performance measure. Core loans
represents loans considered central to the Firm’s ongoing businesses,
and excludes loans classified as trading assets, runoff portfolios,
discontinued portfolios and portfolios the Firm has an intent to exit.
Core loans is a measure utilized by the Firm and its investors and
analysts in assessing actual growth in the loan portfolio.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  59
Management’ s discussion and analysis
BUSINESS SEGMENT  RESUL TS
The Firm is managed on a line of business basis. There are four major
reportable business segments – Consumer & Community Banking,
Corporate & Investment Bank, Commercial Banking and Asset &
Wealth Management. In addition, there is a Corporate segment. The business segments are determined based on the products and
services provided, or the type of customer served, and they reflect the
manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by the
Firm’s Operating Committee. Segment results are presented on a
managed basis. For a definition of managed basis, refer to Explanation
and Reconciliation of the Firm’s use of Non-GAAP Financial
Measures and Key Performance Measures, on pages 57-59.
 JPMorgan Chase
 
 Consumer Businesses  Wholesale Businesses
 
 Consumer  & Community Banking Corporate & Investment Bank Commer cial
BankingAsset & Wealth
Management
 
 Consumer &
Business Banking
 Home LendingCard, Merchant
Services & Auto
 BankingMarkets &
Investor Services
  • Middle Market
Banking • Asset Management
  • Consumer
Banking/Chase
Wealth
Management
 • Business Banking
  • Home Lending
Production
 • Home Lending
Servicing
 • Real Estate
Portfolios • Card Services
 – Credit Card
 – Merchant Services
 • Auto • Investment Banking
 • Treasury Services
 • Lending • Fixed
Income
Markets • Corporate Client
Banking • Wealth Management
  • Equity Markets
 • Securities Services
 • Credit Adjustments &
Other • Commercial Term
Lending
  • Real Estate Banking
 
Description of business segment reporting methodology
Results of the business segments are intended to present each segment
as if it were essentially a stand-alone business. The management
reporting process that derives business segment results includes the
allocation of certain income and expense items described in more
detail below. The Firm also assesses the level of capital required for
each line of business on at least an annual basis. The Firm periodically
assesses the assumptions, methodologies and reporting classifications
used for segment reporting, and further refinements may be
implemented in future periods.
Revenue sharing
When business segments join efforts to sell products and services to
the Firm’s clients, the participating business segments may agree to
share revenue from those transactions. Revenue is recognized in the
segment responsible for the related product or service on a gross basis,
with an allocation to the other segment(s) involved in the transaction.
The segment results reflect these revenue-sharing agreements. Funds transfer pricing
Funds transfer pricing is the process by which the Firm allocates
interest income and expense to each business segment and transfers the
primary interest rate risk and liquidity risk exposures to Treasury and
CIO within Corporate. The funds transfer pricing process considers the
interest rate risk, liquidity risk and regulatory requirements of a
business segment as if it were operating independently. This process is
overseen by senior management and reviewed by the Firm’s Treasurer
Committee.
60  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Debt expense and preferred stock dividend allocation
As part of the funds transfer pricing process, almost all of the cost of
the credit spread component of outstanding unsecured long-term debt
and preferred stock dividends is allocated to the reportable business
segments, while the balance of the cost is retained in Corporate. The
methodology to allocate the cost of unsecured long-term debt and
preferred stock dividends to the business segments is aligned with the
Firm’s process to allocate capital. The allocated cost of unsecured
long-term debt is included in a business segment’s net interest income,
and net income is reduced by preferred stock dividends to arrive at a
business segment’s net income applicable to common equity.
Business segment capital allocation
The amount of capital assigned to each business is referred to as
equity. On at least an annual basis, the assumptions and methodologies
used in capital allocation are assessed and as a result, the capital
allocated to lines of business may change. For additional information
on business segment capital allocation, refer to Line of business equity
on page 91. Expense allocation
Where business segments use services provided by corporate support
units, or another business segment, the costs of those services are
allocated to the respective business segments. The expense is generally
allocated based on the actual cost and use of services provided. In
contrast, certain other costs related to corporate support units, or to
certain technology and operations, are not allocated to the business
segments and are retained in Corporate. Expense retained in Corporate
generally includes parent company costs that would not be incurred if
the segments were stand-alone businesses; adjustments to align
corporate support units; and other items not aligned with a particular
business segment.
Segment Results – Managed Basis
Effective January 1, 2018, the Firm adopted several new accounting standards. Certain of the new accounting standards were applied retrospectively
and, accordingly, prior period amounts were revised. For additional information, refer to Note 1.
Net income in 2018 for each of the business segments reflects the favorable impact of the reduction in the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate as a
result of the TCJA.
The following tables summarize the Firm’s results by segment for the periods indicated.
Year ended December 31, Consumer & Community Banking  Corporate & Investment Bank Commercial Banking
(in millions, except ratios) 2018 2017 2016  2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
Total net revenue $52,079 $46,485 $44,915  $36,448 $34,657 $35,340 $ 9,059 $ 8,605 $ 7,453
Total noninterest expense 27,835 26,062 24,905  20,918 19,407 19,116 3,386 3,327 2,934
Pre-provision profit/(loss) 24,244 20,423 20,010  15,530 15,250 16,224 5,673 5,278 4,519
Provision for credit losses 4,753 5,572 4,494  (60) (45) 563 129 (276) 282
Net income/(loss) 14,852 9,395 9,714  11,773 10,813 10,815 4,237 3,539 2,657
Return on equity (“ROE”) 28% 17% 18% 16% 14% 16% 20% 17% 16%
Year ended December 31, Asset & Wealth Management Corporate Total
(in millions, except ratios) 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
Total net revenue $14,076 $13,835 $12,822 $ (128)$ 1,140 $ (487) $111,534 $104,722 $100,043
Total noninterest expense 10,353 10,218 9,255 902 501 462 63,394 59,515 56,672
Pre-provision profit/(loss) 3,723 3,617 3,567 (1,030) 639 (949) 48,140 45,207 43,371
Provision for credit losses 53 39 26 (4) — (4) 4,871 5,290 5,361
Net income/(loss) 2,853 2,337 2,251 (1,241) (1,643) (704) 32,474 24,441 24,733
Return on equity (“ROE”) 31% 25% 24%  NM  NM NM 13% 10% 10%
The following sections provide a comparative discussion of the Firms results by segment as of or for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and
2016.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  61
Management’ s discussion and analysis
CONSUMER & COMMUNITY  BANKING
Consumer & Community Banking offers services to consumers
and businesses through bank branches, ATMs, digital (including
online and mobile) and telephone banking. CCB is organized
into Consumer & Business Banking (including Consumer
Banking/Chase Wealth Management and Business Banking),
Home Lending (including Home Lending Production, Home
Lending Servicing and Real Estate Portfolios) and Card,
Merchant Services & Auto. Consumer & Business Banking
offers deposit and investment products and services to
consumers, and lending, deposit, and cash management and
payment solutions to small businesses. Home Lending includes
mortgage origination and servicing activities, as well as
portfolios consisting of residential mortgages and home equity
loans. Card, Merchant Services & Auto issues credit cards to
consumers and small businesses, offers payment processing
services to merchants, and originates and services auto loans and
leases. 
Selected income statement data  
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios) 2018 2017  2016
Revenue  
Lending- and deposit-related fees$ 3,624 $ 3,431 $ 3,231
Asset management, administration
and commissions 2,402 2,212 2,093
Mortgage fees and related income 1,252 1,613 2,490
Card income 4,554 4,024 4,364
All other income 4,428 3,430 3,077
Noninterest revenue 16,260 14,710 15,255
Net interest income 35,819 31,775 29,660
Total net revenue 52,079 46,485 44,915
Provision for credit losses 4,753 5,572 4,494
Noninterest expense  
Compensation expense(a) 10,534 10,133 9,697
Noncompensation expense(a)(b) 17,301 15,929 15,208
Total noninterest expense 27,835 26,062 24,905
Income before income tax
expense 19,491 14,851 15,516
Income tax expense 4,639 5,456 5,802
Net income $ 14,852 $ 9,395 $ 9,714
Revenue by line of business  
Consumer & Business Banking $ 24,805 $ 21,104 $ 18,659
Home Lending 5,484 5,955 7,361
Card, Merchant Services & Auto 21,790 19,426 18,895
Mortgage fees and related
income details:  
Net production revenue 268 636 853
Net mortgage servicing
  revenue(c) 984 977 1,637
Mortgage fees and related
income $ 1,252 $ 1,613 $ 2,490
Financial ratios  
Return on equity 28% 17% 18%
Overhead ratio 53 56 55
Note: In the discussion and the tables which follow , CCB presents certain financial measures
which exclude the impact of PCI loans; these are non-GAAP  financial measures.
(a)Effective in the first quarter of 2018, certain operations staf f were transferred from CCB
to CB. The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period
presentation. For a further discussion of this transfer , refer to CB segment results on page
71.
(b)Included operating lease depreciation expense of $3.4 billion , $2.7 billion  and $1.9 billion
for the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017  and 2016 , respectively .
(c)Included MSR risk management results of $(111) million , $(242) million  and $217
million for the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017  and 2016 , respectively .
62  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
2018 compared with 2017
Net income was $14.9 billion, an increase of 58%.
Net revenue was $52.1 billion, an increase of 12%.
Net interest income was $35.8 billion, up 13%, driven by:
•higher deposit margins and growth in deposit balances in CBB, as well
as margin expansion and higher loan balances in Card,
partially offset by
•higher rates driving loan spread compression in Home Lending and
Auto.
Noninterest revenue was $16.3 billion, up 11%, driven by:
•higher auto lease volume,
•higher card income due to
–lower new account origination costs, and higher merchant processing
fees on higher volumes,
largely offset by
–lower net interchange income reflecting higher rewards costs and
partner payments, largely offset by higher card sales volumes. The
rewards costs included an adjustment to the credit card rewards
liability of approximately $330 million in the second quarter of 2018,
driven by an increase in redemption rate assumptions
•higher deposit-related fees, as well as higher asset management fees
reflecting an increase in client investment assets,
partially offset by
•lower net production revenue reflecting lower mortgage production
margins and volumes, as well as the impact of a loan sale.
Refer to Note 15 for further information regarding changes in value of the
MSR asset and related hedges, and mortgage fees and related income.
Noninterest expense was $27.8 billion, up 7%, driven by:
•investments in technology and marketing, and
•higher auto lease depreciation.
The provision for credit losses was $4.8 billion, a decrease of 15%,
reflecting:
•a decrease in the consumer, excluding credit card portfolio due to
–lower net charge-offs in the residential real estate portfolio, largely
driven by recoveries from loan sales, and
–lower net charge-offs in the auto portfolio
partially offset by
–a $250 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses in the
residential real estate portfolio — PCI, reflecting continued
improvement in home prices and lower delinquencies; the reduction
was $75 million lower than the prior year for the residential real estate
portfolio — non credit-impaired
•the prior year included a net $218 million write-down recorded in
connection with the sale of the student loan portfolio, and
•a decrease in the credit card portfolio due to
–a $300 million addition to the allowance for loan losses, reflecting
loan growth and higher loss rates, as anticipated; the addition was
$550 million lower than the prior year,
largely offset by
–higher net charge-offs due to seasoning of more recent vintages, as
anticipated. 2017 compared with 2016
Net income was $9.4 billion, a decrease of 3%.
Net revenue was $46.5 billion, an increase of 3%.
Net interest income was $31.8 billion, up 7%, driven by:
•growth in deposit balances and higher deposit margins in CBB, as well
as higher loan balances in Card,
partially offset by
•loan spread compression from higher rates, including the impact of
higher funding costs in Home Lending and Auto, and
•the impact of the sale of the student loan portfolio.
Noninterest revenue was $14.7 billion, down 4%, driven by:
•higher new account origination costs in Card,
•lower MSR risk management results,
•the absence in the current year of a gain on the sale of Visa Europe
interests,
•lower net production revenue reflecting lower mortgage production
margins and volumes, and
•lower mortgage servicing revenue as a result of a lower level of third-
party loans serviced
largely offset by
•higher auto lease volume and
•higher card- and deposit-related fees.
Noninterest expense was $26.1 billion, up 5%, driven by:
•higher auto lease depreciation, and
•continued business growth
partially offset by
•two items totaling $175 million included in the prior year related to
liabilities from a merchant bankruptcy and mortgage servicing reserves.
The provision for credit losses was $5.6 billion, an increase of 24%,
reflecting:
•$445 million of higher net charge-offs, primarily in the credit card
portfolio due to growth in newer vintages which, as anticipated, have
higher loss rates than the more seasoned portion of the portfolio,
partially offset by a decrease in net charge-offs in the residential real
estate portfolio reflecting continued improvement in home prices and
delinquencies,
•a $415 million higher addition to the allowance for credit losses related
to the credit card portfolio driven by higher loss rates and loan growth,
and a lower reduction in the allowance for the residential real estate
portfolio predominantly driven by continued improvement in home
prices and delinquencies, and
•a net $218 million impact in connection with the sale of the student loan
portfolio.
The sale of the student loan portfolio during 2017 did not have a material
impact on the Firm’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  63
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Selected metrics  
As of or for the year ended
December 31,   
(in millions, except headcount) 2018 2017  2016
Selected balance sheet data
(period-end)   
Total assets $ 557,441$ 552,601 $ 535,310
Loans:   
Consumer & Business Banking 26,612 25,789 24,307
Home equity 36,013 42,751 50,296
Residential mortgage 203,859 197,339 181,196
Home Lending 239,872 240,090 231,492
Card 156,632 149,511 141,816
Auto 63,573 66,242 65,814
Student — — 7,057
Total loans 486,689 481,632 470,486
Core loans 434,466 415,167 382,608
Deposits 678,854 659,885 618,337
Equity 51,000 51,000 51,000
Selected balance sheet data
(average)   
Total assets $ 547,368$ 532,756 $ 516,354
Loans:   
Consumer & Business Banking 26,197 24,875 23,431
Home equity 39,133 46,398 54,545
Residential mortgage 202,624 190,242 177,010
Home Lending 241,757 236,640 231,555
Card 145,652 140,024 131,165
Auto 64,675 65,395 63,573
Student — 2,880 7,623
Total loans 478,281 469,814 457,347
Core loans 419,066 393,598 361,316
Deposits 670,388 640,219 586,637
Equity 51,000 51,000 51,000
Headcount(a)(b) 129,518 133,721 132,384
(a)Effective in the first quarter of 2018, certain operations staf f were transferred from CCB
to CB. The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period
presentation. For a further discussion of this transfer , refer to CB segment results on page
71.
(b)During the third quarter of 2018, approximately 1,200 employees transferred from CCB to
CIB as part of the reor ganization of the Commercial Card business. 
Selected metrics   
As of or for the year ended
December 31,    
(in millions, except ratio data) 2018 2017  2016
Credit data and quality
statistics    
Nonaccrual loans(a)(b) $ 3,339 $ 4,084 $ 4,708
Net charge-offs/(recoveries)(c)   
Consumer & Business
Banking 236 257 257
Home equity (7) 63 184
Residential mortgage (287) (16) 14
Home Lending (294) 47 198
Card 4,518 4,123 3,442
Auto 243 331 285
Student — 498 (g) 162
Total net charge-
offs/(recoveries) $ 4,703 $ 5,256 (g) $ 4,344
Net charge-off/(recovery) rate(c)   
Consumer & Business
Banking 0.90 % 1.03% 1.10%
Home equity(d) (0.02) 0.18 0.45
Residential mortgage(d) (0.16) (0.01) 0.01
Home Lending(d) (0.14) 0.02 0.10
Card 3.10 2.95 2.63
Auto 0.38 0.51 0.45
Student — NM 2.13
Total net charge-
offs/(recovery) rate(d) 1.04 1.21 (g) 1.04
30+ day delinquency rate    
Home Lending(e)(f) 0.77 % 1.19% 1.23%
Card 1.83 1.80 1.61
Auto 0.93 0.89 1.19
Student — — 1.60 (h) 
90+ day delinquency rate - Card 0.92 0.92 0.81
Allowance for loan losses    
Consumer & Business
Banking $ 796 $ 796 $ 753
Home Lending, excluding PCI
loans 1,003 1,003 1,328
Home Lending — PCI
loans(c) 1,788 2,225 2,311
Card 5,184 4,884 4,034
Auto 464 464 474
Student — — 249
Total allowance for loan
losses(c) $ 9,235 $ 9,372 $ 9,149
(a)Excludes PCI loans. The Firm is recognizing interest income on each pool of PCI loans as each
of the pools is performing.
(b)At December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, nonaccrual loans excluded mortgage loans 90 or more
days past due and insured by U.S. government agencies of $2.6 billion, $4.3 billion and $5.0
billion, respectively. At December 31, 2016, nonaccrual loans also excluded student loans
insured by U.S. government agencies under the Federal Family Education Loan Program
(“FFELP”) of $263 million. These amounts have been excluded based upon the government
guarantee.
(c)Net charge-offs/(recoveries) and the net charge-off/(recovery) rates for the years ended
December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, excluded $187 million, $86 million and $156 million,
respectively, of write-offs in the PCI portfolio. These write-offs decreased the allowance for loan
losses for PCI loans. For further
64  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
information on PCI write-offs, refer to Summary of changes in the allowance for credit losses on
page 121.
(d)Excludes the impact of PCI loans. For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the
net charge-off/(recovery) rates including the impact of PCI loans were as follows: (1) home
equity of (0.02)%, 0.14% and 0.34%, respectively; (2) residential mortgage of (0.14)%, (0.01)%
and 0.01%, respectively; (3) Home Lending of (0.12)%, 0.02% and 0.09%, respectively; and (4)
total CCB of 0.98%, 1.12% and 0.95%, respectively.
(e)At December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, excluded mortgage loans insured by U.S. government
agencies of $4.1 billion, $6.2 billion and $7.0 billion, respectively, that are 30 or more days past
due. These amounts have been excluded based upon the government guarantee.
(f)Excludes PCI loans. The 30+ day delinquency rate for PCI loans was 9.16%, 10.13% and 9.82%
at December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
(g)Excluding net charge-offs of $467 million related to the student loan portfolio transfer, the total
net charge-off rates for the full year 2017 would have been 1.10%.
(h)Excluded student loans insured by U.S. government agencies under FFELP of $468 million at
December 31, 2016 that are 30 or more days past due. This amount has been excluded based
upon the government guarantee. 
Selected metrics   
As of or for the year ended
December 31,   
(in billions, except ratios and
where otherwise noted) 2018 2017 2016
Business Metrics   
CCB households (in millions)(a) 61.7 61.1 60.5
Number of branches 5,036 5,130 5,258
Active digital customers
(in thousands)(b) 49,254 46,694 43,836
Active mobile customers
(in thousands)(c) 33,260 30,056 26,536
Debit and credit card sales
volume $ 1,016.9$ 916.9$ 821.6
Consumer & Business Banking   
Average deposits $ 656.5 $ 625.6$ 570.8
Deposit margin 2.38% 1.98% 1.81%
Business banking origination
volume $ 6.7 $ 7.3$ 7.3
Client investment assets 282.5 273.3 234.5
Home Lending   
Mortgage origination volume by
channel   
Retail $ 38.3 $ 40.3$ 44.3
Correspondent 41.1 57.3 59.3
Total mortgage origination
volume(d) $ 79.4 $ 97.6$ 103.6
Total loans serviced
(period-end) $ 789.8 $ 816.1$ 846.6
Third-party mortgage loans
serviced (period-end) 519.6 553.5 591.5
MSR carrying value
  (period-end) 6.1 6.0 6.1
Ratio of MSR carrying value
(period-end) to third-party
mortgage loans serviced
(period-end) 1.17% 1.08% 1.03%
MSR revenue multiple(e) 3.34x 3.09x 2.94x
Card, excluding Commercial Card   
Credit card sales volume $ 692.4 $ 622.2$ 545.4
New accounts opened
(in millions) 7.8 8.4 10.4
Card Services   
Net revenue rate 11.27% 10.57% 11.29%
Merchant Services   
Merchant processing volume $ 1,366.1$ 1,191.7$ 1,063.4
Auto   
Loan and lease origination
volume $ 31.8 $ 33.3$ 35.4
Average Auto operating lease
assets 18.8 15.2 11.0
(a)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
(b)Users of all web and/or mobile platforms who have logged in within the past 90 days.
(c)Users of all mobile platforms who have logged in within the past 90 days.
(d)Firmwide mortgage origination volume was $86.9 billion, $107.6 billion and $117.4 billion for
the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
(e)Represents the ratio of MSR carrying value (period-end) to third-party mortgage loans serviced
(period-end) divided by the ratio of loan servicing-related revenue to third-party mortgage loans
serviced (average).
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  65
Management’ s discussion and analysis
CORPORA TE & INVESTMENT  BANK
The Corporate & Investment Bank, which consists of Banking
and Markets & Investor Services, offers a broad suite of
investment banking, market-making, prime brokerage, and
treasury and securities products and services to a global client
base of corporations, investors, financial institutions,
government and municipal entities. Banking offers a full range
of investment banking products and services in all major capital
markets, including advising on corporate strategy and structure,
capital-raising in equity and debt markets, as well as loan
origination and syndication. Banking also includes Treasury
Services, which provides transaction services, consisting of cash
management and liquidity solutions. Markets & Investor
Services is a global market-maker in cash securities and
derivative instruments, and also offers sophisticated risk
management solutions, prime brokerage, and research. Markets
& Investor Services also includes Securities Services, a leading
global custodian which provides custody, fund accounting and
administration, and securities lending products principally for
asset managers, insurance companies and public and private
investment funds.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Firm adopted several new accounting
standards; the guidance which had the most significant impact on the
CIB segment results was revenue recognition, and recognition and
measurement of financial assets. The revenue recognition guidance
was applied retrospectively and, accordingly, prior period amounts
were revised. For additional information, refer to Note 1.
Selected income statement data  
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Revenue  
Investment banking fees $ 7,473 $ 7,356 $ 6,548
Principal transactions 12,271 10,873 11,089
Lending- and deposit-related fees 1,497 1,531 1,581
Asset management, administration and
commissions 4,488 4,207 4,062
All other income 1,239 572 1,169
Noninterest revenue 26,968 24,539 24,449
Net interest income 9,480 10,118 10,891
Total net revenue(a)(b) 36,448 34,657 35,340
Provision for credit losses (60) (45) 563
Noninterest expense  
Compensation expense 10,215 9,531 9,540
Noncompensation expense 10,703 9,876 9,576
Total noninterest expense 20,918 19,407 19,116
Income before income tax expense 15,590 15,295 15,661
Income tax expense 3,817 4,482 4,846
Net income(a) $ 11,773 $ 10,813 $ 10,815 (a)The full year 2017 results reflect the impact of the enactment of the TCJA  including a
decrease to net revenue of $259 million and a benefit to net income of $141 million. For
additional information related to the impact of the TCJA, refer to Note 24.
(b)Included tax-equivalent adjustments, predominantly due to income tax credits related to
alternative ener gy investments; income tax credits and amortization of the cost of
investments in af fordable housing projects; and tax-exempt income from municipal bonds
of $1.7 billion, $2.4 billion and $2.0 billion for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017
and 2016 , respectively .
Selected income statement data  
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios) 2018 2017  2016
Financial ratios   
Return on equity 16% 14% 16%
Overhead ratio 57 56 54
Compensation expense as
percentage of total net
revenue 28 28 27
Revenue by business   
Investment Banking $ 6,987 $ 6,852 $ 6,074
Treasury Services 4,697 4,172 3,643
Lending 1,298 1,429 1,208
Total Banking 12,982 12,453 10,925
Fixed Income Markets 12,706 12,812 15,259
Equity Markets 6,888 5,703 5,740
Securities Services 4,245 3,917 3,591
Credit Adjustments & Other(a) (373) (228) (175)
Total Markets & Investor
Services 23,466 22,204 24,415
Total net revenue $ 36,448 $ 34,657 $ 35,340
(a)Consists primarily of credit valuation adjustments (“CV A”) managed centrally within CIB
and funding valuation adjustments (“FV A”) on derivatives. Results are primarily reported
in principal transactions revenue. Results are presented net of associated hedging
activities and net of CV A and FV A amounts allocated to Fixed Income Markets and Equity
Markets. For additional information, refer to Notes 2, 3 and 23.
2018 compared with 2017
Net income was $11.8 billion, up 9%.
Net revenue was $36.4 billion, up 5%.
Banking revenue was $13.0 billion, up 4%. Investment Banking
revenue was $7.0 billion, up 2% compared to a strong prior year,
predominantly driven by higher advisory and equity underwriting fees,
predominantly offset by lower debt underwriting fees. The Firm
maintained its #1 ranking for Global Investment Banking fees with
overall share gains, according to Dealogic. Advisory fees were $2.5
billion, up 17%, driven by a higher number of large completed
transactions. Equity underwriting fees were $1.7 billion, up 15%
driven by a higher share of fees reflecting strong performance across
products. Debt underwriting fees were $3.3 billion, down 12%,
compared to a strong prior year, primarily driven by declines in
industry-wide fee levels. Treasury Services revenue was $4.7 billion,
up 13%, driven by the impact of higher interest rates and growth in
operating deposits as well as higher fees on increased payments
volume. Lending revenue was $1.3 billion, down
66  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
9%, driven by lower net interest income primarily reflecting a change
in the portfolio mix and overall spread compression, and higher gains
in the prior year on securities received from restructurings.
Markets & Investor Services revenue was $23.5 billion, up 6%. The
results included a reduction of approximately $620 million in tax-
equivalent adjustments as a result of the TCJA, and approximately
$500 million of fair value gains in the first quarter of 2018 related to
the adoption of the new recognition and measurement accounting
guidance for certain equity investments previously held at cost. Prior
year results included a reduction of $259 million resulting from the
enactment of the TCJA. Fixed Income Markets revenue was $12.7
billion, down 1%. Excluding the impact of the TCJA and fair value
gains mentioned above, Fixed Income Markets revenue was down 2%.
Rates and Credit revenue declined reflecting challenging market
conditions in the fourth quarter of 2018 while lower revenue in Fixed
Income Financing was driven by compressed margins. This decline
was predominantly offset by strong performance including higher
client activity in Currencies & Emerging Markets, and higher
Commodities revenue compared to a challenging prior year. Equity
Markets revenue was $6.9 billion, up 21%, or up 18% excluding the
fair value loss of $143 million on a margin loan to a single client in the
prior year, driven by strength across derivatives, prime brokerage and
cash equities, reflecting strong client activity. Securities Services
revenue was $4.2 billion, up 8%, driven by fee growth, higher interest
rates and operating deposit growth partially offset by the impact of a
business exit. Credit Adjustments & Other was a loss of $373 million,
largely driven by higher funding spreads on derivatives.
The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $60 million, driven by
a reduction in the allowance for credit losses in the first quarter of
2018 related to a single name in the Oil & Gas portfolio,
predominantly offset by other net portfolio activity, which includes
additions to the allowance for credit losses from select client
downgrades. The prior year was a benefit of $45 million primarily
driven by a net reduction in the allowance for credit losses in the Oil &
Gas and Metals & Mining portfolios partially offset by a net increase
in the allowance for credit losses for a single client.
Noninterest expense was $20.9 billion, up 8%, predominantly driven
by investments in technology and bankers, higher performance-related
compensation expense, volume-related transaction costs, and legal
expense. 2017 compared with 2016
Net income was $10.8 billion, flat compared with the prior year,
reflecting lower net revenue and higher noninterest expense, offset by
a lower provision for credit losses, and a tax benefit resulting from the
vesting of employee share-based awards. The current year included a
$141 million benefit to net income as a result of the enactment of the
TCJA.
Net revenue was $34.7 billion, down 2%.
Banking revenue was $12.5 billion, up 14% compared with the prior
year. Investment banking revenue was $6.9 billion, up 13% from the
prior year, driven by higher debt and equity underwriting fees. The
Firm maintained its #1 ranking for Global Investment Banking fees,
according to Dealogic. Debt underwriting fees were $3.7 billion, up
16% driven by a higher share of fees and an overall increase in
industry-wide fees; the Firm maintained its #1 ranking globally in fees
across high-grade, high-yield, and loan products. Equity underwriting
fees were $1.5 billion, up 21% driven by growth in industry-wide
issuance including a strong IPO market; the Firm ranked #2 in equity
underwriting fees globally. Advisory fees were $2.2 billion, up 2%; the
Firm maintained its #2 ranking for M&A. Treasury Services revenue
was $4.2 billion, up 15%, driven by the impact of higher interest rates
and growth in operating deposits. Lending revenue was $1.4 billion, up
18% from the prior year, reflecting lower fair value losses on hedges of
accrual loans.
Markets & Investor Services revenue was $22.2 billion, down 9% from
the prior year. Fixed Income Markets revenue was $12.8 billion, down
16%, as lower revenue across products was driven by sustained low
volatility, tighter credit spreads, and the impact from the TCJA on tax-
oriented investments of $259 million, against a strong prior year.
Equity Markets revenue was $5.7 billion, down 1% from the prior
year, and included a fair value loss of $143 million on a margin loan to
a single client. Excluding the fair value loss, Equity Markets revenue
was higher driven by higher revenue in Prime Services and cash
equities, partially offset by lower revenue in derivatives. Securities
Services revenue was $3.9 billion, up 9%, driven by the impact of
higher interest rates and deposit growth, as well as higher asset-based
fees driven by higher market levels. Credit Adjustments & Other was a
loss of $228 million, driven by valuation adjustments.
The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $45 million, which
included a net reduction in the allowance for credit losses driven by the
Oil & Gas and Metals & Mining portfolios partially offset by a net
increase in the allowance for credit losses for a single client. The prior
year was an expense of $563 million, which included an addition to the
allowance for credit losses driven by the Oil & Gas and Metals &
Mining portfolios.
Noninterest expense was $19.4 billion, up 2% compared with the prior
year.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  67
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Selected metrics  
As of or for the year ended
December 31,
(in millions, except headcount) 2018 2017 2016
Selected balance sheet data
(period-end)  
Assets $ 903,051$ 826,384$ 803,511
Loans:  
Loans retained(a) 129,389 108,765 111,872
Loans held-for-sale and loans at
fair value 13,050 4,321 3,781
Total loans 142,439 113,086 115,653
Core loans 142,122 112,754 115,243
Equity 70,000 70,000 64,000
Selected balance sheet data
(average)  
Assets $ 922,758$ 857,060$ 815,321
Trading assets-debt and equity
instruments 349,169 342,124 300,606
Trading assets-derivative
receivables 60,552 56,466 63,387
Loans:  
Loans retained(a) 114,417 108,368 111,082
Loans held-for-sale and loans at
fair value 6,412 4,995 3,812
Total loans 120,829 113,363 114,894
Core loans 120,560 113,006 114,455
Equity 70,000 70,000 64,000
Headcount(b) 54,480 51,181 48,748
(a)Loans retained includes credit portfolio loans, loans held by consolidated Firm-
administered multi-seller conduits, trade finance loans, other held-for-investment
loans and overdrafts.
(b)During the third quarter of 2018 approximately 1,200 employees transferred from
CCB to CIB as part of the reorganization of the Commercial Card business. 
Selected metrics    
As of or for the year ended
December 31,
(in millions, except ratios) 
2018  2017  2016
Credit data and quality
statistics    
Net charge-offs/(recoveries) $ 93 $ 71 $ 168
Nonperforming assets:    
Nonaccrual loans:    
Nonaccrual loans
retained(a) 443 812 467
Nonaccrual loans held-for-
sale and loans at fair
value 220 — 109
Total nonaccrual loans 663 812 576
Derivative receivables 60 130 223
Assets acquired in loan
satisfactions 57 85 79
Total nonperforming assets 780 1,027 878
Allowance for credit losses:   
Allowance for loan losses 1,199 1,379 1,420
Allowance for lending-
related commitments 754 727 801
Total allowance for credit
losses 1,953 2,106 2,221
Net charge-off/(recovery)
rate(b) 0.08% 0.07% 0.15%
Allowance for loan losses to
period-end loans
retained 0.93 1.27 1.27
Allowance for loan losses to
period-end loans retained,
excluding trade finance and
conduits(c) 1.24 1.92 1.86
Allowance for loan losses to
nonaccrual loans
retained(a) 271 170 304
Nonaccrual loans to total
period-end loans 0.47 0.72 0.50
(a)Allowance for loan losses of $174 million, $316 million and $113 million were held
against these nonaccrual loans at December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
(b)Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value were excluded when calculating the net
charge-off/(recovery) rate.
(c)Management uses allowance for loan losses to period-end loans retained, excluding
trade finance and conduits, a non-GAAP financial measure, to provide a more
meaningful assessment of CIB’s allowance coverage ratio.
Investment banking fees     
 Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2018  2017  2016
Advisory $ 2,509 $ 2,150 $ 2,110
Equity underwriting 1,684 1,468 1,213
Debt underwriting(a) 3,280 3,738 3,225
Total investment banking fees $ 7,473 $ 7,356 $ 6,548
(a)Includes loan syndications.
68  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
League table results – wallet share
 2018  2017 2016
Year ended
December 31, Rank Share  Rank Share Rank Share
Based on fees (a)     
Long-term debt (b)     
Global #1 7.3% #1 7.8% #1 6.8%
U.S. 1 11.2  2 11.1 1 11.1
Equity and equity-r elated     
Global (c) 1 9.1  2 7.1 1 7.4
U.S. 1 12.3  1 11.6 1 13.4
M&A (d)     
Global 2 8.9  2 8.4 2 8.3
U.S. 2 9.1  2 9.1 2 9.8
Loan syndications     
Global 1 9.5  1 9.3 1 9.3
U.S. 1 12.1  1 11.0 2 11.9
Global investment banking fees  (e) #1 8.7% #1 8.1% #1 7.9%
(a)Source: Dealogic as of January 1, 2019. Reflects the ranking of revenue wallet and market share.
(b)Long-term debt rankings include investment-grade, high-yield, supranationals, sovereigns, agencies, covered bonds, asset-backed securities (“ABS”) and mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”);
and exclude money market, short-term debt, and U.S. municipal securities.
(c)Global equity and equity-related ranking includes rights of ferings and Chinese A-Shares.
(d)Global M&A  reflects the removal of any withdrawn transactions. U.S. M&A  revenue wallet represents wallet from client parents based in the U.S.
(e)Global investment banking fees exclude money market, short-term debt and shelf deals.
Markets revenue
The following table summarizes select income statement data for the
Markets businesses. Markets includes both Fixed Income Markets and
Equity Markets. Markets revenue comprises principal transactions,
fees, commissions and other income, as well as net interest income.
The Firm assesses its Markets business performance on a total revenue
basis, as offsets may occur across revenue line items. For example,
securities that generate net interest income may be risk-managed by
derivatives that are recorded in principal transactions revenue. For a
description of the composition of these income statement line items,
refer to Notes 6 and 7.
Principal transactions reflects revenue on financial instruments and
commodities transactions that arise from client-driven market making
activity. Principal transactions revenue includes amounts recognized
upon executing new transactions with market participants, as well as
“inventory-related revenue”, which is revenue recognized from gains
and losses on derivatives and other instruments that the Firm has been holding in anticipation of, or in response to, client
demand, and changes in the fair value of instruments used by the Firm
to actively manage the risk exposure arising from such inventory.
Principal transactions revenue recognized upon executing new
transactions with market participants is driven by many factors
including the level of client activity, the bid-offer spread (which is the
difference between the price at which a market participant is willing to
sell an instrument to the Firm and the price at which another market
participant is willing to buy it from the Firm, and vice versa), market
liquidity and volatility. These factors are interrelated and sensitive to
the same factors that drive inventory-related revenue, which include
general market conditions, such as interest rates, foreign exchange
rates, credit spreads, and equity and commodity prices, as well as other
macroeconomic conditions. 
For the periods presented below, the predominant source of principal
transactions revenue was the amount recognized upon executing new
transactions.
 2018  2017  2016
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except where otherwise noted)Fixed Income
MarketsEquity
Markets Total Markets Fixed Income
MarketsEquity
Markets Total Markets Fixed Income
MarketsEquity
Markets Total Markets
Principal transactions $ 7,560$ 5,566$ 13,126 $ 7,393$ 3,855$ 11,248 $ 8,347$ 3,130$ 11,477
Lending- and deposit-related fees 197 6 203 191 6 197 220 2 222
Asset management, administration and
commissions 410 1,794 2,204 390 1,635 2,025 388 1,551 1,939
All other income 952 22 974 436 (21) 415 1,014 13 1,027
Noninterest revenue 9,119 7,388 16,507 8,410 5,475 13,885 9,969 4,696 14,665
Net interest income(a) 3,587 (500) 3,087 4,402 228 4,630 5,290 1,044 6,334
Total net revenue $ 12,706$ 6,888$ 19,594 $ 12,812$ 5,703$ 18,515 $ 15,259$ 5,740$ 20,999
Loss days(b) 5  4  0
(a)Declines in Markets net interest income in 2018 and 2017 were driven by higher funding costs.
(b)Loss days represent the number of days for which Markets posted losses. The loss days determined under this measure differ from the disclosure of daily market risk-related gains
and losses for the Firm in the value-at-risk (“VaR”) back-testing discussion on pages 126-128.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  69
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Selected metrics     
As of or for the year ended
December 31,
(in millions, except where otherwise noted) 2018  2017  2016
Assets under custody (“AUC”) by asset class (period-end) (in billions):     
Fixed Income $ 12,440 $ 13,043 $ 12,166
Equity 8,078 7,863 6,428
Other(a) 2,699 2,563 1,926
Total AUC $ 23,217 $ 23,469 $ 20,520
Client deposits and other third party liabilities (average)(b) $ 434,422 $ 408,911 $ 376,287
(a)Consists of mutual funds, unit investment trusts, currencies, annuities, insurance contracts, options and other contracts.
(b)Client deposits and other third party liabilities pertain to the Treasury Services and Securities Services businesses.
International metrics   
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except where otherwise
noted) 2018 2017  2016
Total net revenue(a)   
Europe/Middle East/Africa $ 12,102$ 11,328 $ 10,786
Asia/Pacific 5,219 4,525 4,915
Latin America/Caribbean 1,394 1,125 1,225
Total international net revenue 18,715 16,978 16,926
North America 17,733 17,679 18,414
Total net revenue $ 36,448$ 34,657 $ 35,340
Loans retained (period-end)(a)   
Europe/Middle East/Africa $ 26,524$ 25,931 $ 26,696
Asia/Pacific 16,778 15,248 14,508
Latin America/Caribbean 5,060 6,546 7,607
Total international loans 48,362 47,725 48,811
North America 81,027 61,040 63,061
Total loans retained $ 129,389$ 108,765 $ 111,872
Client deposits and other third-party
liabilities (average)(a)(b)   
Europe/Middle East/Africa $ 162,846$ 154,582 $ 135,979
Asia/Pacific 82,867 76,744 68,110
Latin America/Caribbean 26,668 25,419 22,914
Total international $ 272,381$ 256,745 $ 227,003
North America 162,041 152,166 149,284
Total client deposits and other third-
party liabilities $ 434,422$ 408,911 $ 376,287
AUC (period-end)(a)
(in billions)   
North America $ 14,359$ 13,971 $ 12,290
All other regions 8,858 9,498 8,230
Total AUC $ 23,217$ 23,469 $ 20,520
(a)Total net revenue is based predominantly on the domicile of the client or location of
the trading desk, as applicable. Loans outstanding (excluding loans held-for-sale and
loans at fair value), client deposits and other third-party liabilities, and AUC are
based predominantly on the domicile of the client.
(b)Client deposits and other third party liabilities pertain to the Treasury Services and
Securities Services businesses.
70  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
COMMERCIAL  BANKING
Commercial Banking delivers extensive industry knowledge,
local expertise and dedicated service to U.S. and U.S.
multinational clients, including corporations, municipalities,
financial institutions and nonprofit entities with annual revenue
generally ranging from $20 million to $2 billion. In addition, CB
provides financing to real estate investors and owners.
Partnering with the Firm’s other businesses, CB provides
comprehensive financial solutions, including lending, treasury
services, investment banking and asset management to meet its
clients’ domestic and international financial needs.
Selected income statement data   
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Revenue    
Lending- and deposit-related fees $ 870$ 919 $ 917
Asset management, administration and
commissions 73 68 69
All other income(a) 1,400 1,535 1,334
Noninterest revenue 2,343 2,522 2,320
Net interest income 6,716 6,083 5,133
Total net revenue(b) 9,059 8,605 7,453
Provision for credit losses 129 (276) 282
Noninterest expense    
Compensation expense(c) 1,694 1,534 1,396
Noncompensation expense(c) 1,692 1,793 1,538
Total noninterest expense 3,386 3,327 2,934
Income before income tax expense 5,544 5,554 4,237
Income tax expense 1,307 2,015 1,580
Net income $ 4,237$ 3,539 $ 2,657
(a)Includes revenue from investment banking products and commercial card
transactions.
(b)Total net revenue included tax-equivalent adjustments from income tax credits
related to equity investments in designated community development entities that
provide loans to qualified businesses in low-income communities, as well as tax-
exempt income related to municipal financing activities of $444 million, $699
million and $505 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016,
respectively. The decrease in taxable-equivalent adjustments reflects the impact of
TCJA.
(c)Effective in the first quarter of 2018, certain Operations and Compliance staff were
transferred from CCB and Corporate, respectively, to CB. As a result, expense for
this staff is now reflected in CB’s compensation expense with a corresponding
adjustment for expense allocations reflected in noncompensation expense. CB’s,
Corporate’s and CCB’s previously reported headcount, compensation expense and
noncompensation expense have been revised to reflect this transfer. 2018 compared with 2017
Net income was $4.2 billion, an increase of 20%.
Net revenue was $9.1 billion, an increase of 5%. Net interest income
was $6.7 billion, an increase of 10%, reflecting higher deposit margins
and loan growth, partially offset by lower loan spreads. Noninterest
revenue was $2.3 billion, a decrease of 7%, reflecting lower
Community Development Banking revenue, which was also impacted
by the absence of the TCJA benefit in the prior year, and lower deposit
fees, partially offset by higher investment banking revenue.
Noninterest expense was $3.4 billion, an increase of 2%, with
continued investments in banker coverage and technology in the
current year predominantly offset by the absence of an impairment on
certain leased equipment in the prior year.
The provision for credit losses was an expense of $129 million, driven
by select client downgrades. The prior year provision for credit losses
was a benefit of $276 million.
2017 compared with 2016
Net income was $3.5 billion, an increase of 33%, driven by higher net
revenue and a lower provision for credit losses, partially offset by
higher noninterest expense.
Net revenue was $8.6 billion, an increase of 15%. Net interest income
was $6.1 billion, an increase of 19%, driven by higher deposit spreads
and loan growth. Noninterest revenue was $2.5 billion, an increase of
9%, predominantly driven by higher Community Development
Banking revenue, including a $115 million benefit for the impact of
the TCJA on certain investments, and higher investment banking
revenue.
Noninterest expense was $3.3 billion, an increase of 13% driven by
hiring of bankers and business-related support staff, investments in
technology, and an impairment of approximately $130 million on
certain leased equipment, the majority of which was sold subsequent to
year-end.
The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $276 million, driven by
net reductions in the allowance for credit
losses, including in the Oil & Gas, Natural Gas Pipelines and Metals &
Mining portfolios. The prior year provision for credit losses was $282
million driven by downgrades in the Oil & Gas portfolio and select
client downgrades in other industries.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  71
Management’ s discussion and analysis
CB product revenue consists of the following:
Lending includes a variety of financing alternatives, which are
primarily provided on a secured basis; collateral includes receivables,
inventory, equipment, real estate or other assets. Products include term
loans, revolving lines of credit, bridge financing, asset-based structures,
leases, and standby letters of credit.
Treasury services includes revenue from a broad range of products and
services that enable CB clients to manage payments and receipts, as well
as invest and manage funds.
Investment banking includes revenue from a range of products
providing CB clients with sophisticated capital-raising alternatives, as
well as balance sheet and risk management tools through advisory,
equity underwriting, and loan syndications. Revenue from Fixed Income
and Equity Markets products used by CB clients is also included.
Other product revenue primarily includes tax-equivalent adjustments
generated from Community Development Banking activities and certain
income derived from principal transactions.
CB is divided into four primary client segments: Middle Market
Banking, Corporate Client Banking, Commercial Term Lending,
and Real Estate Banking.
Middle Market Banking covers corporate, municipal and nonprofit
clients, with annual revenue generally ranging between $20 million and
$500 million.
Corporate Client Banking covers clients with annual revenue
generally ranging between $500 million and $2 billion and focuses on
clients that have broader investment banking needs.
Commercial Term Lending primarily provides term financing to real
estate investors/owners for multifamily properties as well as office,
retail and industrial properties.
Real Estate Banking provides full-service banking to investors and
developers of institutional-grade real estate investment properties.
Other primarily includes lending and investment-related activities
within the Community Development Banking business. 
Selected income statement data (continued)  
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios) 2018  2017  2016
Revenue by product     
Lending $ 4,049 $ 4,094 $ 3,795
Treasury services 4,074 3,444 2,797
Investment banking(a) 852 805 785
Other 84 262 76
Total Commercial Banking net
revenue $ 9,059 $ 8,605 $ 7,453
Investment banking revenue, gross(b)$ 2,491 $ 2,385 $ 2,331
Revenue by client segment     
Middle Market Banking $ 3,708 $ 3,341 $ 2,848
Corporate Client Banking 2,984 2,727 2,429
Commercial Term Lending 1,366 1,454 1,408
Real Estate Banking 681 604 456
Other 320 479 312
Total Commercial Banking net
revenue $ 9,059 $ 8,605 $ 7,453
Financial ratios     
Return on equity 20% 17% 16%
Overhead ratio 37 39 39
(a)Includes total Firm revenue from investment banking products sold to CB clients,
net of revenue sharing with the CIB.
(b)Represents total Firm revenue from investment banking products sold to CB clients.
As a result of the adoption of the revenue recognition guidance, prior period
amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation. For
additional information, refer to Note 1.
72  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Selected metrics
As of or for the year ended
December 31, (in millions, except
headcount) 2018 2017  2016
Selected balance sheet data
(period-end)   
Total assets $ 220,229$ 221,228 $ 214,341
Loans:   
Loans retained 204,219 202,400 188,261
Loans held-for-sale and loans at
fair value 1,978 1,286 734
Total loans $ 206,197$ 203,686 $ 188,995
Core loans 206,039 203,469 188,673
Equity 20,000 20,000 16,000
Period-end loans by client
segment   
Middle Market Banking $ 56,656$ 56,965 $ 53,929
Corporate Client Banking 48,343 46,963 43,027
Commercial Term Lending 76,720 74,901 71,249
Real Estate Banking 17,563 17,796 14,722
Other 6,915 7,061 6,068
Total Commercial Banking loans$ 206,197$ 203,686 $ 188,995
Selected balance sheet data
(average)   
Total assets $ 218,259$ 217,047 $ 207,532
Loans:   
Loans retained 204,243 197,203 178,670
Loans held-for-sale and loans at
fair value 1,258 909 723
Total loans $ 205,501$ 198,112 $ 179,393
Core loans 205,320 197,846 178,875
Client deposits and other third-
party liabilities 170,901 177,018 174,396
Equity 20,000 20,000 16,000
Average loans by client segment   
Middle Market Banking $ 57,092$ 55,474 $ 52,242
Corporate Client Banking 47,780 46,037 41,756
Commercial Term Lending 75,694 73,428 66,700
Real Estate Banking 17,808 16,525 13,063
Other 7,127 6,648 5,632
Total Commercial Banking loans$ 205,501$ 198,112 $ 179,393
Headcount(a) 11,042 10,061 9,352
(a)Effective in the first quarter of 2018, certain Operations and Compliance staff were
transferred from CCB and Corporate, respectively, to CB. The prior period amounts
have been revised to conform with the current period presentation. For a further
discussion of this transfer, refer to page 71, Selected income statement data, footnote
(c). 
Selected metrics    
As of or for the year ended December
31, (in millions, except ratios) 2018 2017  2016
Credit data and quality statistics    
Net charge-offs/(recoveries) $ 53 $ 39 $ 163
Nonperforming assets    
Nonaccrual loans:    
Nonaccrual loans retained(a) 511 617 1,149
Nonaccrual loans held-for-sale and
loans at fair value — — —
Total nonaccrual loans 511 617 1,149
Assets acquired in loan satisfactions 2 3 1
Total nonperforming assets 513 620 1,150
Allowance for credit losses:    
Allowance for loan losses 2,682 2,558 2,925
Allowance for lending-related
commitments 254 300 248
Total allowance for credit losses 2,936 2,858 3,173
Net charge-off/(recovery) rate(b) 0.03% 0.02% 0.09%
Allowance for loan losses to period-
end loans retained 1.31 1.26 1.55
Allowance for loan losses to
nonaccrual loans retained(a) 525 415 255
Nonaccrual loans to period-end total
loans 0.25 0.30 0.61
(a)Allowance for loan losses of $92 million, $92 million and $155 million was held
against nonaccrual loans retained at December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016,
respectively.
(b)Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value were excluded when calculating the net
charge-off/(recovery) rate.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  73
Management’ s discussion and analysis
ASSET  & WEAL TH MANAGEMENT
Asset & Wealth Management, with client assets of $2.7 trillion, is
a global leader in investment and wealth management. AWM
clients include institutions, high-net-worth individuals and retail
investors in many major markets throughout the world. AWM
offers investment management across most major asset classes
including equities, fixed income, alternatives and money market
funds. AWM also offers multi-asset investment management,
providing solutions for a broad range of clients’ investment
needs. For Wealth Management clients, AWM also provides
retirement products and services, brokerage and banking
services including trusts and estates, loans, mortgages and
deposits. The majority of AWM’s client assets are in actively
managed portfolios.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Firm adopted several new accounting
standards; the guidance which had the most significant impact on the
AWM segment results was revenue recognition. The revenue
recognition guidance was applied retrospectively and, accordingly, prior
period amounts were revised. For additional information, refer to Note
1.
Selected income statement data
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios
and headcount) 2018 2017 2016
Revenue  
Asset management, administration
and commissions $ 10,171 $ 9,856$ 9,187
All other income 368 600 602
Noninterest revenue 10,539 10,456 9,789
Net interest income 3,537 3,379 3,033
Total net revenue 14,076 13,835 12,822
Provision for credit losses 53 39 26
Noninterest expense  
Compensation expense 5,495 5,317 5,063
Noncompensation expense 4,858 4,901 4,192
Total noninterest expense 10,353 10,218 9,255
Income before income tax expense 3,670 3,578 3,541
Income tax expense 817 1,241 1,290
Net income $ 2,853 $ 2,337$ 2,251
Revenue by line of business  
Asset Management $ 7,163 $ 7,257$ 6,747
Wealth Management 6,913 6,578 6,075
Total net revenue $ 14,076 $ 13,835$ 12,822
Financial ratios  
Return on common equity 31% 25% 24%
Overhead ratio 74 74 72
Pre-tax margin ratio:  
Asset Management 26 22 27
Wealth Management 26 30 28
Asset & Wealth Management 26 26 28
Headcount 23,920 22,975 21,082
Number of Wealth Management client
advisors 2,865 2,605 2,504 2018 compared with 2017
Net income was $2.9 billion, an increase of 22%.
Net revenue was $14.1 billion, an increase of 2%. Net interest income
was $3.5 billion, up 5%, driven by deposit margin expansion and loan
growth. Noninterest revenue was $10.5 billion, up 1%, driven by
higher management fees on higher average market levels and the
cumulative impact of net inflows, predominantly offset by fee
compression, lower investment valuations and lower performance fees.
Revenue from Asset Management was $7.2 billion, down 1%, driven
by lower investment valuations, fee compression and lower
performance fees, predominantly offset by higher management fees on
higher average market levels and the cumulative impact of net inflows.
Revenue from Wealth Management was $6.9 billion, up 5%, reflecting
higher management fees on the cumulative impact of net inflows and
higher average market levels as well as higher net interest income from
deposit margin expansion and continued loan growth, partially offset
by fee compression.
Noninterest expense was $10.4 billion, an increase of 1%, driven by
investments in advisors and technology and higher external fees on
revenue growth, largely offset by lower legal expense.
2017 compared with 2016
Net income was $2.3 billion, an increase of 4% compared with the
prior year, reflecting higher revenue and a tax benefit resulting from
the vesting of employee share-based awards, offset by higher
noninterest expense.
Net revenue was $13.8 billion, an increase of 8%. Net interest income
was $3.4 billion, up 11%, driven by higher deposit spreads.
Noninterest revenue was $10.5 billion, up 7%, driven by higher market
levels, partially offset by the absence of a gain in the prior year on the
disposal of an asset.
Revenue from Asset Management was $7.3 billion, up 8% from the
prior year, driven by higher market levels, partially offset by the
absence of a gain in prior year on the disposal of an asset.
Revenue from Wealth Management was $6.6 billion, up 8% from the
prior year, reflecting higher net interest income from higher deposit
spreads.
Noninterest expense was $10.2 billion, an increase of 10%,
predominantly driven by higher legal expense and compensation
expense on higher revenue and headcount.
74  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
AWM’s lines of business consist of the following:
Asset Management provides comprehensive global investment services, including
asset management, pension analytics, asset-liability management and active risk-
budgeting strategies.
Wealth Management offers investment advice and wealth management, including
investment management, capital markets and risk management, tax and estate
planning, banking, lending and specialty-wealth advisory services.
AWM’s client segments consist of the following:
Private Banking clients include high- and ultra-high-net-worth individuals, families,
money managers, business owners and small corporations worldwide.
Institutional clients include both corporate and public institutions, endowments,
foundations, nonprofit organizations and governments worldwide.
Retail clients include financial intermediaries and individual investors.
Asset Management has two high-level measures of its overall
fund performance.
• Percentage of mutual fund assets under management in funds rated 4- or 5-
star: Mutual fund rating services rank funds based on their risk-adjusted
performance over various periods. A 5-star rating is the best rating and represents the
top 10% of industry-wide ranked funds. A 4-star rating represents the next 22.5% of
industry-wide ranked funds. A 3-star rating represents the next 35% of industry-wide
ranked funds. A 2-star rating represents the next 22.5% of industry-wide ranked
funds. A 1-star rating is the worst rating and represents the bottom 10% of industry-
wide ranked funds. The “overall Morningstar rating ” is derived from a weighted
average of the performance associated with a fund’s three-, five- and ten-year (if
applicable) Morningstar Rating metrics. For U.S. domiciled funds, separate star
ratings are given at the individual share class level. The Nomura “star rating ” is
based on three-year risk-adjusted performance only. Funds with fewer than three
years of history are not rated and hence excluded from this analysis. All ratings, the
assigned peer categories and the asset values used to derive this analysis are sourced
from these fund rating providers mentioned in footnote (a). The data providers re-
denominate the asset values into U.S. dollars. This % of AUM is based on star
ratings at the share class level for U.S. domiciled funds, and at a “primary share
class ” level to represent the star rating of all other funds except for Japan where
Nomura provides ratings at the fund level. The “primary share class”, as defined by
Morningstar, denotes the share class recommended as being the best proxy for the
portfolio and in most cases will be the most retail version (based upon annual
management charge, minimum investment, currency and other factors). The
performance data could have been different if all funds/accounts would have been
included. Past performance is not indicative of future results.
• Percentage of mutual fund assets under management in funds ranked in the 1st
or 2nd quartile (one, three and five years): All quartile rankings, the assigned peer
categories and the asset values used to derive this analysis are sourced from the fund
ranking providers mentioned in footnote (c). Quartile rankings are done on the net-
of-fee absolute return of each fund. The data providers re-denominate the asset
values into U.S. dollars. This % of AUM is based on fund performance and
associated peer rankings at the share class level for U.S. domiciled funds, at a
“primary share class” level to represent the quartile ranking of the U.K., Luxembourg
and Hong Kong funds and at the fund level for all other funds. The “primary share
class ”, as defined by Morningstar, denotes the share class recommended as being the
best proxy for the portfolio and in most cases will be the most retail version (based
upon annual management charge, minimum investment, currency and other factors).
Where peer group rankings given for a fund are in more than one “primary share
class” territory both rankings are included to reflect local market competitiveness
(applies to “Offshore Territories” and “HK SFC Authorized” funds only). The
performance data could have been different if all funds/accounts would have been
included. Past performance is not indicative of future results. 
Selected metrics
As of or for the year ended
December 31,
(in millions, except ranking data
and ratios) 2018 2017 2016
% of JPM mutual fund assets
rated as 4- or 5-star(a) 58% 60% 63%
% of JPM mutual fund assets
ranked in 1st or 2nd 
quartile:(b)
1 year 68 64 54
3 years 73 75 72
5 years 85 83 79
Selected balance sheet data
(period-end)
Total assets $ 170,024 $ 151,909$ 138,384
Loans 147,632 130,640 118,039
Core loans 147,632 130,640 118,039
Deposits 138,546 146,407 161,577
Equity 9,000 9,000 9,000
Selected balance sheet data
(average)
Total assets $ 160,269 $ 144,206$ 132,875
Loans 138,622 123,464 112,876
Core loans 138,622 123,464 112,876
Deposits 137,272 148,982 153,334
Equity 9,000 9,000 9,000
Credit data and quality
statistics
Net charge-offs $ 10$ 14$ 16
Nonaccrual loans 263 375 390
Allowance for credit losses:
Allowance for loan losses 326 290 274
Allowance for lending-related
commitments 16 10 4
Total allowance for credit
losses 342 300 278
Net charge-off rate 0.01% 0.01% 0.01%
Allowance for loan losses to
period-end loans 0.22 0.22 0.23
Allowance for loan losses to
nonaccrual loans 124 77 70
Nonaccrual loans to period-end
loans 0.18 0.29 0.33
(a)Represents the “overall star rating” derived from Morningstar for the U.S., the U.K.,
Luxembourg, Hong Kong and Taiwan domiciled funds; and Nomura “star rating” for
Japan domiciled funds. Includes only Asset Management retail open-ended mutual
funds that have a rating. Excludes money market funds, Undiscovered Managers
Fund, and Brazil domiciled funds.
(b)Quartile ranking sourced from: Lipper for the U.S. and Taiwan domiciled funds;
Morningstar for the U.K., Luxembourg and Hong Kong domiciled funds; Nomura
for Japan domiciled funds and Fund Doctor for South Korea domiciled funds.
Includes only Asset Management retail open-ended mutual funds that are ranked by
the aforementioned sources. Excludes money market funds, Undiscovered Managers
Fund, and Brazil domiciled funds.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  75
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Client assets
2018 compared with 2017
Client assets were $2.7 trillion, a decrease of 2%. Assets under
management were $2.0 trillion, a decrease of 2% reflecting lower spot
market levels, largely offset by net inflows into liquidity and long-term
products.
2017 compared with 2016
Client assets were $2.8 trillion, an increase of 14% compared with the
prior year. Assets under management were $2.0 trillion, an increase of
15% from the prior year reflecting higher market levels, and net
inflows into long-term and liquidity products.
Client assets  
December 31,
(in billions) 2018 2017 2016
Assets by asset class  
Liquidity $ 480$ 459$ 436
Fixed income 464 474 420
Equity 384 428 351
Multi-asset and alternatives 659 673 564
Total assets under management 1,987 2,034 1,771
Custody/brokerage/
administration/deposits 746 755 682
Total client assets $ 2,733$ 2,789$ 2,453
Memo:  
Alternatives client assets(a) $ 171$ 166$ 154
Assets by client segment  
Private Banking $ 552$ 526$ 435
Institutional 926 968 869
Retail 509 540 467
Total assets under management $ 1,987$ 2,034$ 1,771
Private Banking $ 1,274$ 1,256$ 1,098
Institutional 946 990 886
Retail 513 543 469
Total client assets $ 2,733$ 2,789$ 2,453
(a)Represents assets under management, as well as client balances in brokerage
accounts. 
Client assets (continued)  
Year ended December 31,
(in billions) 2018 2017 2016
Assets under management rollforward  
Beginning balance $ 2,034$ 1,771$ 1,723
Net asset flows:  
Liquidity 31 9 24
Fixed income (1) 36 30
Equity 2 (11) (29)
Multi-asset and alternatives 24 43 22
Market/performance/other impacts (103) 186 1
Ending balance, December 31 $ 1,987$ 2,034$ 1,771
Client assets rollforward  
Beginning balance $ 2,789$ 2,453$ 2,350
Net asset flows 88 93 63
Market/performance/other impacts (144) 243 40
Ending balance, December 31 $ 2,733$ 2,789$ 2,453
International metrics
Year ended December 31,
(in billions, except where otherwise
noted) 2018 2017 2016
Total net revenue (in millions)(a)  
Europe/Middle East/Africa $ 2,721$ 2,715$ 2,425
Asia/Pacific 1,518 1,385 1,278
Latin America/Caribbean 904 844 726
Total international net revenue 5,143 4,944 4,429
North America 8,933 8,891 8,393
Total net revenue $ 14,076$ 13,835$ 12,822
Assets under management  
Europe/Middle East/Africa $ 355$ 384$ 309
Asia/Pacific 162 160 123
Latin America/Caribbean 63 61 45
Total international assets under
management 580 605 477
North America 1,407 1,429 1,294
Total assets under management $ 1,987$ 2,034$ 1,771
Client assets  
Europe/Middle East/Africa $ 414$ 441$ 359
Asia/Pacific 222 225 177
Latin America/Caribbean 155 154 114
Total international client assets 791 820 650
North America 1,942 1,969 1,803
Total client assets $ 2,733$ 2,789$ 2,453
(a)Regional revenue is based on the domicile of the client.
76  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
CORPORA TE
The Corporate segment consists of Treasury and Chief
Investment Office and Other Corporate, which includes
corporate staff functions and expense that is centrally managed.
Treasury and CIO is predominantly responsible for measuring,
monitoring, reporting and managing the Firm’s liquidity,
funding, capital, structural interest rate and foreign exchange
risks. The major Other Corporate functions include Real Estate,
Technology, Legal, Corporate Finance, Human Resources,
Internal Audit, Risk Management, Compliance, Control
Management, Corporate Responsibility and various Other
Corporate groups.
Selected income statement and balance sheet data
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except headcount) 2018  2017  2016
Revenue     
Principal transactions $ (426) $ 284 $ 210
Securities gains/(losses) (395) (66) 140
All other income/(loss)(a) 558 867 588
Noninterest revenue (263) 1,085 938
Net interest income 135 55 (1,425)
Total net revenue(b) (128) 1,140 (487)
Provision for credit losses (4) — (4)
Noninterest expense(c) 902 501 462
Income/(loss) before income tax
benefit (1,026) 639 (945)
Income tax expense/(benefit) 215 2,282 (241)
Net income/(loss) $ (1,241) $ (1,643) $ (704)
Total net revenue     
Treasury and CIO 510 566 (787)
Other Corporate (638) 574 300
Total net revenue $ (128) $ 1,140 $ (487)
Net income/(loss)     
Treasury and CIO (69) 60 (715)
Other Corporate (1,172) (1,703) 11
Total net income/(loss) $ (1,241) $ (1,643) $ (704)
Total assets (period-end) $771,787 $ 781,478 $ 799,426
Loans (period-end) 1,597 1,653 1,592
Core loans(d) 1,597 1,653 1,589
Headcount(e) 37,145 34,601 31,789
(a)Included revenue related to a legal settlement of $645 million for the year ended
December 31, 2017.
(b)Included tax-equivalent adjustments, driven by tax-exempt income from municipal bond
investments, of $ 382 million , $905 million  and $885 million  for the years ended
December 31, 2018 , 2017  and 2016 , respectively . The decrease in taxable-equivalent
adjustments reflects the impact of the TCJA.
(c)Included legal expense/(benefit) of $ (241) million , $(593) million  and $(385) million  for
the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017  and 2016 , respectively .
(d)Average core loans were $1.7 billion , $1.6 billion  and $1.9 billion  for the years ended
December 31, 2018 , 2017  and 2016 , respectively .
(e)Effective in the first quarter of 2018, certain Compliance staff were transferred from
Corporate to CB. The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current
period presentation. For a further discussion of this transfer, refer to CB segment results on
page 71. 
2018 compared with 2017
Net loss was $1.2 billion.
Net revenue was a loss of $128 million, compared with net revenue of
$1.1 billion in the prior year. The current year includes markdowns on
certain legacy private equity investments and investment securities
losses related to the repositioning of the investment securities
portfolio, partially offset by higher net interest income primarily driven
by higher rates. The prior year included a $645 million benefit from a
legal settlement.
Noninterest expense of $902 million includes a pre-tax loss of $174
million on the liquidation of a legal entity recorded in the second
quarter of 2018, as well as investments in technology and real estate.
Current period income tax expense reflects a net benefit of $302
million resulting from changes in estimates under the TCJA related to
the remeasurement of certain deferred taxes and the deemed
repatriation tax on non-U.S. earnings. This amount was more than
offset by changes to certain tax reserves and other tax adjustments. The
prior year income tax expense included a $2.7 billion expense related
to the impact of the TCJA.
2017 compared with 2016
Net loss was $1.6 billion, compared with a net loss of $704 million in
the prior year. The current year net loss included a $2.7 billion increase
to income tax expense related to the impact of the TCJA.
Net revenue was $1.1 billion, compared with a loss of $487 million in
the prior year. The increase in current year net revenue was driven by a
$645 million benefit from a legal settlement with the FDIC
receivership for Washington Mutual and with Deutsche Bank as trustee
of certain Washington Mutual trusts and by the net impact of higher
interest rates.
Net interest income was $55 million, compared with a loss of $1.4
billion in the prior year. The gain in the current year was primarily
driven by higher interest income on deposits with banks due to higher
interest rates and balances, partially offset by higher interest expense
on long-term debt primarily driven by higher interest rates.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  77
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Treasury and  CIO  overview
Treasury and CIO is predominantly responsible for measuring,
monitoring, reporting and managing the Firm’s liquidity, funding,
capital, structural interest rate and foreign exchange risks. The risks
managed by Treasury and CIO arise from the activities undertaken by
the Firm’s four major reportable business segments to serve their
respective client bases, which generate both on- and off-balance sheet
assets and liabilities.
Treasury and CIO seek to achieve the Firm’s asset-liability
management objectives generally by investing in high-quality
securities that are managed for the longer-term as part of the Firm’s
investment securities portfolio. Treasury and CIO also use derivatives
to meet the Firm’s asset-liability management objectives. For further
information on derivatives, refer to Note 5. In addition, Treasury and
CIO manage the Firm’s cash position primarily through depositing at
central banks and investing in short-term instruments. For further
information on liquidity and funding risk, refer to Liquidity Risk
Management on pages 95–100. For information on interest rate,
foreign exchange and other risks, refer to Market Risk Management on
pages 124–131.
The investment securities portfolio primarily consists of agency and
nonagency mortgage-backed securities, U.S. and non-U.S. government
securities, obligations of U.S. states and municipalities, other ABS and
corporate debt securities. At December 31, 2018, the investment
securities portfolio was $260.1 billion, and the average credit rating of
the securities comprising the portfolio was AA+ (based upon external
ratings where available and, where not available, based primarily upon
internal ratings that correspond to ratings as defined by S&P and
Moody’s). Refer to Note 10 for further information on the Firm’s
investment securities portfolio. 
Selected income statement and balance sheet data
As of or for the year ended
December 31, (in millions) 2018  2017  2016
Investment securities gains/(losses)$ (395) $ (78) $ 132
Available-for-sale (“AFS”)
investment securities (average) 203,449 219,345 226,892
Held-to-maturity (“HTM”)
investment securities (average) 31,747 47,927 51,358
Investment securities portfolio
(average) 235,197 267,272 278,250
AFS investment securities (period-
end) 228,681 200,247 236,670
HTM investment securities (period-
end) 31,434 47,733 50,168
Investment securities portfolio
(period–end) 260,115 247,980 286,838
As permitted by the new hedge accounting guidance, the Firm elected to transfer certain
investment securities from HTM to AFS in the first quarter of 2018. For additional
information, refer to Notes 1 and 10.
78  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
ENTERPRISE-WIDE RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk is an inherent part of JPMorgan Chase’s business activities. When
the Firm extends a consumer or wholesale loan, advises customers on
their investment decisions, makes markets in securities, or offers other
products or services, the Firm takes on some degree of risk. The Firm’s
overall objective is to manage its businesses, and the associated risks,
in a manner that balances serving the interests of its clients, customers
and investors and protects the safety and soundness of the Firm.
The Firm believes that effective risk management requires:
•Acceptance of responsibility, including identification and escalation
of risk issues, by all individuals within the Firm;
•Ownership of risk identification, assessment, data and management
within each of the lines of business and Corporate; and
•Firmwide structures for risk governance.
The Firm strives for continual improvement through efforts to enhance
controls, ongoing employee training and development, talent retention,
and other measures. The Firm follows a disciplined and balanced
compensation framework with strong internal governance and
independent Board oversight. The impact of risk and control issues are
carefully considered in the Firm’s performance evaluation and
incentive compensation processes.
Firmwide Risk Management is overseen and managed on an
enterprise-wide basis. The Firm’s risk management governance and
oversight framework involves understanding drivers of risks, types of
risks, and impacts of risks.
Drivers of Risks
Drivers of risks include, but are not limited to, the economic
environment, regulatory or government policy, competitor or market
evolution, business decisions, process or judgment error, deliberate
wrongdoing, dysfunctional markets, and natural disasters. Types of Risks
The Firm’s risks are generally categorized in the following four risk
types:
•Strategic risk is the risk associated with the Firm’s current and
future business plans and objectives, including capital risk,
liquidity risk, and the impact to the Firm’s reputation.
•Credit and investment risk is the risk associated with the default or
change in credit profile of a client, counterparty or customer; or
loss of principal or a reduction in expected returns on investments,
including consumer credit risk, wholesale credit risk, and
investment portfolio risk.
•Market risk is the risk associated with the effect of changes in
market factors, such as interest and foreign exchange rates, equity
and commodity prices, credit spreads or implied volatilities, on the
value of assets and liabilities held for both the short and long term.
•Operational risk is the risk associated with inadequate or failed
internal processes, people and systems, or from external events and
includes compliance risk, conduct risk, legal risk, and estimations
and model risk.
Impacts of Risks
There may be many consequences of risks manifesting, including
quantitative impacts such as reduction in earnings and capital, liquidity
outflows, and fines or penalties, or qualitative impacts, such as
reputation damage, loss of clients, and regulatory and enforcement
actions.
Governance and Oversight Functions
The Firm manages its risk through risk governance and oversight
functions. The scope of a particular function may include one or more
drivers, types and/or impacts of risk. For example, Country Risk
Management oversees country risk which may be a driver of risk or an
aggregation of exposures that could give rise to multiple risk types
such as credit or market risk.
The following sections discusses the risk governance and oversight
functions in place to manage the risks inherent in the Firms business
activities.
Risk governance and oversight functions Page
Strategic risk
84
Capital risk 85–94
Liquidity risk 95–100
Reputation risk 101
Consumer credit risk
106-111
Wholesale credit risk 112-119
Investment portfolio risk 123
Market risk 124-131
Country risk 132–133
Operational risk 134-136
Compliance risk
137
Conduct risk 138
Legal risk 139
Estimations and Model risk 140
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  79
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Governance and oversight
The Firm’s overall appetite for risk is governed by a “Risk Appetite”
framework. The framework and the Firm’s risk appetite are set and
approved by the Firm’s Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), Chief
Financial Officer (“CFO”) and Chief Risk Officer (“CRO”). LOB-
level risk appetite is set by the respective LOB CEO, CFO and CRO
and is approved by the Firm’s CEO, CFO and CRO. Quantitative
parameters and qualitative factors are used to monitor and measure the
Firm’s capacity to take risk consistent with its stated risk appetite.
Quantitative parameters have been established to assess select strategic
risks, credit risks and market risks. Qualitative factors have been
established to assess select operational risks, and impact to the Firm’s
reputation. Risk Appetite results are reported quarterly to the Board of
Directors’ Risk Policy Committee (“DRPC”).
The Firm has an Independent Risk Management (“IRM”) function,
which consists of the Risk Management and Compliance
organizations. The CEO appoints, subject to DRPC approval, the
Firm’s CRO to lead the IRM organization and manage the risk
governance structure of the Firm. The framework is subject to approval
by the DRPC in the form of the primary risk management policies. The
Firm’s CRO oversees and delegates authorities to LOB CROs,
Firmwide Risk Executives (“FREs”), and the Firm’s Chief Compliance
Officer (“CCO”). The CCO oversees and delegates authorities to the
LOB CCOs, and is responsible for the creation and effective execution
of the Global Compliance Program. The Firm places reliance on each of its LOBs and other functional
areas giving rise to risk to operate within the parameters identified by
the IRM function, and within its own management-identified risk and
control standards. Each LOB and Treasury and CIO, inclusive of their
aligned Operations, Technology and Control Management are
considered the “first line of defense” and owns the identification of
risks, as well as the design and execution of controls, inclusive of
IRM-specified controls, to manage those risks. The first line of defense
is responsible for adherence to applicable laws, rules, and regulations
and for the implementation of the risk management structure (which
may include policy, standards, limits, thresholds and controls)
established by IRM.
The IRM function is independent of the businesses and is “the second
line of defense”. The IRM function sets and oversees the risk
management structure for firmwide risk governance, and
independently assesses and challenges the first line of defense risk
management practices. IRM is also responsible for its own adherence
to applicable laws, rules, regulations and for the implementation of
policies and standards established by IRM with respect to its own
processes.
The Internal Audit function operates independently from other parts of
the Firm and performs independent testing and evaluation of processes
and controls across the entire enterprise as the Firm’s “third line of
defense”. The Internal Audit Function is headed by the General
Auditor, who reports to the Audit Committee.
In addition, there are other functions that contribute to the firmwide
control environment including Finance, Human Resources, Legal, and
Control Management.
80  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
The independent status of the IRM function is supported by a governance structure that provides for escalation of risk issues to senior management,
the Firmwide Risk Committee, and the Board of Directors, as appropriate.
The chart below illustrates the Board of Directors and key senior management level committees in the Firm’s risk governance structure. In addition,
there are other committees, forums and paths of escalation that support the oversight of risk which are not shown in the chart below.
The Firm’s Operating Committee, which consists of the Firm’s CEO,
CRO, CFO and other senior executives, is accountable to and may
refer matters to the Firm’s Board of Directors. The Operating
Committee is responsible to escalate to the Board the information
necessary to facilitate the Board’s exercise of its duties.
The Board of Directors provides oversight of risk. The DRPC is the
principal committee that oversees risk matters. The Audit Committee
oversees the control environment, and the Compensation &
Management Development Committee oversees compensation and
other management-related matters. Each committee of the Board
oversees reputation risk and/or conduct risk issues within its scope of
responsibility. The Directors’ Risk Policy Committee of the Board assists the board in
its oversight of the Firm’s global risk management framework and
approves the primary risk management policies of the Firm. The
Committee’s responsibilities include oversight of management’s
exercise of its responsibility to assess and manage the Firm’s risks, and
its capital and liquidity planning and analysis. Breaches in risk
appetite, capital and liquidity issues that may have a material adverse
impact on the Firm and other significant risk-related matters are
escalated to the DRPC.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  81
Management’ s discussion and analysis
The Audit Committee of the Board assists the Board in its oversight of
management’s responsibilities to assure that there is an effective
system of controls reasonably designed to safeguard the assets and
income of the Firm, assure the integrity of the Firm’s financial
statements and maintain compliance with the Firm’s ethical standards,
policies, plans and procedures, and with laws and regulations. In
addition, the Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight of the
Firm’s independent registered public accounting firm’s qualifications,
independence and performance, and of the performance of the Firm’s
Internal Audit function.
The Compensation & Management Development Committee
(“CMDC”) of the Board assists the Board in its oversight of the Firm’s
compensation programs and reviews and approves the Firm’s overall
compensation philosophy, incentive compensation pools, and
compensation practices consistent with key business objectives and
safety and soundness. The CMDC reviews Operating Committee
members’ performance against their goals, and approves their
compensation awards. The CMDC also periodically reviews the Firm’s
diversity programs and management development and succession
planning, and provides oversight of the Firm’s culture, including
reviewing management updates regarding significant conduct issues
and any related employee actions, including but not limited to
compensation actions.
The Public Responsibility Committee of the Board assists the Board in
its oversight of the Firm's positions and practices on public
responsibility matters such as community investment, fair lending,
sustainability, consumer practices and other public policy issues that
reflect the Firm's values and character and impact the Firm's reputation
among all of its stakeholders. The Committee also provides guidance
on these matters to management and the Board as appropriate.
Among the Firm’s senior management-level committees that are
primarily responsible for key risk-related functions are:
The Firmwide Risk Committee (“FRC”) is the Firm’s highest
management-level risk committee. It provides oversight of the risks
inherent in the Firm’s businesses. The FRC is co-chaired by the Firm’s
CEO and CRO. The FRC serves as an escalation point for risk topics
and issues raised by its members, the Line of Business Risk
Committees, Firmwide Control Committee, Firmwide Fiduciary Risk
Governance Committee, Firmwide Estimations Risk Committee,
Conduct Risk Steering Committee and Regional Risk Committees, as
appropriate. The FRC escalates significant issues to the DRPC, as
appropriate.
The Firmwide Control Committee (“FCC”) provides a forum for
senior management to review and discuss firmwide operational risks,
including existing and emerging issues and operational risk metrics,
and to review operational risk management execution in the context of
the Operational Risk Management Framework (“ORMF”). The ORMF
provides the framework for the governance, risk identification and
assessment, measurement, monitoring and reporting of operational risk. The FCC is co-chaired by the Chief Control Manager
and the Firmwide Risk Executive for Operational Risk Management.
The FCC relies on the prompt escalation of operational risk and
control issues from businesses and functions as the primary owners of
the operational risk. Operational risk and control issues may be
escalated by business or function control committees to the FCC,
which in turn, may escalate to the FRC, as appropriate.
The Firmwide Fiduciary Risk Governance Committee (“FFRGC”) is a
forum for risk matters related to the Firm’s fiduciary activities. The
FFRGC oversees the governance framework for fiduciary risk inherent
in each of the Firm’s LOBs. The governance framework supports the
consistent identification and escalation of fiduciary risk or fiduciary
related conflict of interest risk. The FFRGC approves risk or
compliance policy exceptions and reviews periodic reports from the
LOBs and control functions including fiduciary metrics and control
trends. The FFRGC is co-chaired by the Wealth Management CEO and
the Asset & Wealth Management CRO. The FFRGC escalates
significant fiduciary issues to the FRC, the DRPC and the Audit
Committee, as appropriate.
The Firmwide Estimations Risk Committee (“FERC”) reviews and
oversees governance and execution activities related to quantitative
and qualitative estimations, such as those used in risk management,
budget forecasting and capital planning and analysis. The FERC is
chaired by the Firmwide Risk Executive for Model Risk Governance
and Review. The FERC serves as an escalation channel for relevant
topics and issues raised by its members and the Line of Business
Estimation Risk Committees. The FERC escalates significant issues to
the FRC, as appropriate.
The Conduct Risk Steering Committee (“CRSC”) provides oversight of
the Firm’s conduct initiatives to develop a more holistic view of
conduct risks and to connect key programs across the Firm to identify
opportunities and emerging areas of focus. The CRSC is co-chaired by
the Conduct Risk Compliance Executive and the Human Resources
Chief Administrative Officer. The CRSC may escalate systemic
conduct risk issues to the FRC and as appropriate to the DRPC.
Line of Business and Regional Risk Committees review the ways in
which the particular line of business or the business operating in a
particular region could be exposed to adverse outcomes with a focus
on identifying, accepting, escalating and/or requiring remediation of
matters brought to these committees. These committees may escalate
matters to the FRC, as appropriate. LOB risk committees are co-
chaired by the LOB CEO and the LOB CRO. Each LOB risk
committee may create sub-committees with requirements for
escalation. The regional committees are established similarly, as
appropriate, for the region.
Line of Business and Corporate Control Committees oversee the
control environment of their respective business or function. As part of
that mandate, they are responsible for reviewing data that indicates the
quality and stability of the
82  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
processes in a business or function, addressing key operational risk
issues, focusing on processes with control concerns and overseeing
control remediation. These committees escalate issues to the FCC, as
appropriate.
The Firmwide Asset and Liability Committee (“ALCO”), chaired by
the Firm’s Treasurer and Chief Investment Officer, is responsible for
overseeing the Firm’s asset and liability management (“ALM”)
activities and the management of liquidity risk, balance sheet, interest
rate risk, and capital risk. The ALCO is supported by the Treasurer
Committee and the Capital Governance Committee. The Treasurer
Committee is responsible for monitoring the Firm’s overall balance
sheet, liquidity risk and interest rate risk. The Capital Governance
Committee is responsible for overseeing the Firm’s strategic end-to-
end capital management and governance framework, including capital
planning, capital strategy, and the implementation of regulatory capital
requirements.
The Firmwide Valuation Governance Forum (“VGF”) is composed of
senior finance and risk executives and is responsible for overseeing the
management of fair value risks arising from valuation activities
conducted across the Firm. The VGF is chaired by the Firmwide head
of the Valuation Control Group (“VCG”) under the direction of the
Firm’s Controller, and includes sub-forums covering the Corporate &
Investment Bank, Consumer & Community Banking, Commercial
Banking, Asset & Wealth Management and Corporate, including
Treasury and CIO. In addition, the JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Board of Directors is
responsible for the oversight of management of the bank. The
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Board accomplishes this function acting
directly and through the principal standing committees of the Firm’s
Board of Directors. Risk and control oversight on behalf of JPMorgan
Chase Bank N.A. is primarily the responsibility of the DRPC and the
Audit Committee of the Firm’s Board of Directors, respectively, and,
with respect to compensation and other management-related matters,
the Compensation & Management Development Committee of the
Firm’s Board of Directors.
Risk Identification
The Firm has a Risk Identification process designed to facilitate the
first line of defense’s responsibility to identify material risks inherent
to the Firm, catalog them in a central repository and review the most
material risks on a regular basis. The second line of defense reviews
and challenges the first line’s identification of risks, maintains the
central repository and provides the consolidated Firmwide results to
the FRC and DRPC.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  83
Management’ s discussion and analysis
STRA TEGIC RISK MANAGEMENT
Strategic risk is the risk associated with the Firm’s current and future
business plans and objectives. Strategic risk includes the risk to current
or anticipated earnings, capital, liquidity, enterprise value, or the
Firm’s reputation arising from adverse business decisions, poor
implementation of business decisions, or lack of responsiveness to
changes in the industry or external environment.
Overview
The Operating Committee and the senior leadership of each LOB and
Corporate are responsible for managing the Firm’s most significant
strategic risks. Strategic risks are overseen by IRM through
participation in business reviews, LOB and Corporate senior
management committees, ongoing management of the Firm’s risk
appetite and limit framework, and other relevant governance forums.
The Board of Directors oversees management’s strategic decisions,
and the DRPC oversees IRM and the Firm’s risk management
framework.
The Firm’s strategic planning process, which includes the development
and execution of strategic priorities and initiatives by the Operating
Committee and the management teams of the lines of business and
Corporate, is an important process for managing the Firm’s strategic
risk. Guided by the Firm’s How We Do Business Principles (the
“Principles”), the strategic priorities and initiatives are updated
annually and include evaluating performance against prior year
initiatives, assessment of the operating environment, refinement of
existing strategies and development of new strategies.
These strategic priorities and initiatives are then incorporated in the
Firm’s budget, and are reviewed by the Board of Directors. 
In the process of developing the strategic initiatives, line of business
and Corporate leadership identify the strategic risks associated with
their strategic initiatives and those risks are incorporated into the
Firmwide Risk Identification process and monitored and assessed as
part of the Firmwide Risk Appetite framework. For further information
on Risk Identification, refer to Enterprise-Wide Risk Management on
page 79. For further information on the Risk Appetite framework, refer
to Enterprise-Wide Risk Management on page 80. The Firm’s balance sheet strategy, which focuses on risk-adjusted
returns, strong capital and robust liquidity, is key to management of
strategic risk. For further information on capital risk, refer to Capital
Risk Management on pages 85-94. For further information on liquidity
risk, refer to Liquidity Risk Management on pages 95–100
For further information on reputation risk, refer to Reputation Risk
Management on page 101.
Governance and oversight
On at least an annual basis, the Firm’s Operating Committee defines
the most significant strategic priorities and initiatives, including those
of the Firm, the LOBs and Corporate, for the coming year and
evaluates performance against the prior year. As part of the strategic
planning process, IRM conducts a qualitative assessment of those
significant initiatives to determine the impact on the risk profile of the
Firm. The Firm’s priorities, initiatives and IRM’s assessment are
provided to the Board for its review.
As part of its ongoing oversight and management of risk across the
Firm, IRM is regularly engaged in significant discussions and
decision-making across the Firm, including decisions to pursue new
business opportunities or modify or exit existing businesses.
84  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
CAPIT AL RISK MANAGEMENT
Capital risk is the risk the Firm has an insufficient level and
composition of capital to support the Firm’s business activities and
associated risks during normal economic environments and under
stressed conditions.
A strong capital position is essential to the Firm’s business strategy and
competitive position. Maintaining a strong balance sheet to manage
through economic volatility is considered a strategic imperative of the
Firm’s Board of Directors, CEO and Operating Committee. The Firm’s
fortress balance sheet philosophy focuses on risk-adjusted returns,
strong capital and robust liquidity. The Firm’s capital risk management
strategy focuses on maintaining long-term stability to enable it to build
and invest in market-leading businesses, even in a highly stressed
environment. Senior management considers the implications on the
Firm’s capital prior to making any significant decisions that could
impact future business activities. In addition to considering the Firm’s
earnings outlook, senior management evaluates all sources and uses of
capital with a view to ensuring the Firm’s capital strength.
Capital management
Treasury & CIO assumed responsibility for capital management in
March 2018.
The primary objectives of effective capital management are to:
•Maintain sufficient capital in order to continue to build and invest
in the Firm’s businesses through the cycle and in stressed
environments;
•Retain flexibility to take advantage of future investment
opportunities;
•Promote the Firm’s ability to serve as a source of strength to its
subsidiaries;
•Ensure the Firm operates above the minimum regulatory capital
ratios as well as maintain “well-capitalized” status for the Firm and
its insured depository institution (“IDI”) subsidiaries at all times
under applicable regulatory capital requirements;
•Meet capital distribution objectives; and
•Maintain sufficient capital resources to operate throughout a
resolution period in accordance with the Firm’s preferred resolution
strategy.
The Firm meets these objectives through the establishment of internal
minimum capital requirements and a strong capital management
governance framework, both in business as usual conditions and in the
event of stress.
Capital risk management is intended to be flexible in order to react to a
range of potential events. In its management of capital, the Firm takes
into consideration economic risk and all applicable regulatory capital
requirements to determine the level of capital needed.
The Firm’s minimum capital levels are based on the most binding of
three pillars: an internal assessment of the Firm’s capital needs; an estimate of required capital under the CCAR and
other stress testing requirements; and Basel III Fully Phased-In
regulatory minimums. Where necessary, each pillar may include a
management-established buffer. The capital governance framework
requires regular monitoring of the Firm’s capital positions, stress
testing and defining escalation protocols, both at the Firm and material
legal entity levels.
Contingency capital plan
The Firm’s contingency capital plan, which is approved by the
firmwide ALCO and the DRPC, establishes the capital management
framework for the Firm and specifies the principles underlying the
Firm’s approach towards capital management in normal economic
times and during stress. The contingency capital plan defines how the
Firm calibrates its targeted capital levels and meets minimum capital
requirements, monitors the ongoing appropriateness of planned
distributions, and sets out the capital contingency actions that must be
taken or considered at various levels of capital depletion during a
period of stress.
Capital planning and stress testing
Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review
The Federal Reserve requires large bank holding companies, including
the Firm, to submit on an annual basis a capital plan that has been
reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors. The Federal Reserve
uses the CCAR and other stress testing processes to ensure that large
BHCs have sufficient capital during periods of economic and financial
stress, and have robust, forward-looking capital assessment and
planning processes in place that address each BHC’s unique risks to
enable it to absorb losses under certain stress scenarios. Through
CCAR, the Federal Reserve evaluates each BHC’s capital adequacy
and internal capital adequacy assessment processes (“ICAAP”), as
well as its plans to make capital distributions, such as dividend
payments or stock repurchases.
On June 28, 2018, the Federal Reserve informed the Firm that it did
not object, on either a quantitative or qualitative basis, to the Firm’s
2018 capital plan. For information on actions taken by the Firm’s
Board of Directors following the 2018 CCAR results, refer to Capital
actions on pages 91-92.
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process
Annually, the Firm prepares the ICAAP, which informs the Board of
Directors of the ongoing assessment of the Firm’s processes for
managing the sources and uses of capital as well as compliance with
supervisory expectations for capital planning and capital adequacy.
The Firm’s ICAAP integrates stress testing protocols with capital
planning. The Firm’s Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing
and approving the capital stress testing control framework.
The CCAR and other stress testing processes assess the potential
impact of alternative economic and business scenarios on the Firm’s
earnings and capital. Economic scenarios, and the parameters
underlying those scenarios, are defined centrally and applied uniformly
across the
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  85
Management’ s discussion and analysis
businesses. These scenarios are articulated in terms of macroeconomic
factors, which are key drivers of business results; global market
shocks, which generate short-term but severe trading losses; and
idiosyncratic operational risk events. The scenarios are intended to
capture and stress key vulnerabilities and idiosyncratic risks facing the
Firm. However, when defining a broad range of scenarios, actual
events can always be worse. Accordingly, management considers
additional stresses outside these scenarios, as necessary. These results
are reviewed by management and the Board of Directors.
Capital management oversight
With the reorganization of the Capital Management group into the
Treasury and CIO organization, the Firm established a Capital
Management oversight function within the CTC risk function. The
CTC CRO, who reports to the Firm’s CRO, is responsible for
Firmwide Capital Management Oversight. Capital Management’s
Oversight responsibilities include:
•Establishing, calibrating and monitoring capital risk limits and
indicators, including capital risk appetite tolerances;
•Performing independent assessment of the Firm’s capital
management activities; and
•Monitoring the Firm’s capital position and balance sheet activities
In addition, the Basel Independent Review function (“BIR”), which is
now a part of the IRM function, conducts independent assessments of
the Firm’s regulatory capital framework. These assessments are
intended to ensure compliance with the applicable regulatory capital
rules in support of senior management’s responsibility for managing
capital and for the DRPC’s oversight of management in executing that
responsibility.
Governance
Committees responsible for overseeing the Firm’s capital management
include the Capital Governance Committee, the Treasurer Committee
and the ALCO. Capital management oversight is governed through the
CTC risk committee. In addition, the DRPC approves the Firm’s
capital management oversight policy and reviews and recommends to
the Board of Directors, for formal approval, the Firm’s capital risk
tolerances. For additional discussion on the DRPC and the ALCO,
refer to Enterprise-wide Risk Management on pages 79-140. Regulatory capital
The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements, including well-
capitalized standards, for the consolidated financial holding company.
The OCC establishes similar minimum capital requirements for the
Firm’s national banks, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and
Chase Bank USA, N.A. The U.S. capital requirements generally follow
the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee, as amended from time to
time.
Basel III Overview
Capital rules under Basel III establish minimum capital ratios and
overall capital adequacy standards for large and internationally active
U.S. bank holding companies (“BHC”) and banks, including the Firm
and its IDI subsidiaries. Basel III sets forth two comprehensive
approaches for calculating RWA: a standardized approach (“Basel III
Standardized”), and an advanced approach (“Basel III Advanced”).
Certain of the requirements of Basel III were subject to phase-in
periods that began on January 1, 2014 and continued through the end
of 2018 (“transitional period”). While the required capital remained
subject to the transitional rules during 2018, the Firm’s capital ratios as
of December 31, 2018 were equivalent whether calculated on a
transitional or fully phased-in basis.
Basel III establishes capital requirements for calculating credit risk
RWA and market risk RWA, and in the case of Basel III Advanced,
operational risk RWA. Key differences in the calculation of credit risk
RWA between the Standardized and Advanced approaches are that for
Basel III Advanced, credit risk RWA is based on risk-sensitive
approaches which largely rely on the use of internal credit models and
parameters, whereas for Basel III Standardized, credit risk RWA is
generally based on supervisory risk-weightings which vary primarily
by counterparty type and asset class. Market risk RWA is calculated on
a generally consistent basis between Basel III Standardized and Basel
III Advanced. In addition to the RWA calculated under these
methodologies, the Firm may supplement such amounts to incorporate
management judgment and feedback from its regulators.
Basel III also includes a requirement for Advanced Approach banking
organizations, including the Firm, to calculate the SLR. For additional
information on the SLR, refer to page 91.
Key Regulatory Developments
Banking supervisors globally continue to consider refinements and
enhancements to the Basel III capital framework for financial
institutions, and in December 2017, the Basel Committee issued Basel
III: Finalizing post-crisis reforms (“Basel III Reforms”). The Basel
Committee expects national regulatory authorities to implement the
Basel III Reforms in the laws of their respective jurisdictions and to
require banking organizations subject to such laws to meet most of the
revised requirements by January 1, 2022, with certain elements being
phased in through January 1, 2027.
86  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
In April 2018, the Federal Reserve proposed the introduction of a
stress buffer framework that would create a single, integrated set of
capital requirements by combining the supervisory stress test results of
the CCAR assessment and those under the Dodd-Frank Act with
current point-in-time capital requirements. The U.S. banking regulators
will be proposing final requirements applicable to U.S. financial
institutions. Also in April 2018, the Federal Reserve and the OCC released a
proposal to revise the enhanced supplementary leverage ratio (“eSLR”)
requirements applicable to the U.S. global systemically important
banks (“GSIBs”) and their IDIs and to make conforming changes to
the rules which are applicable to U.S. GSIBs relating to TLAC and
external long-term debt that must satisfy certain eligibility criteria.
Risk-based Capital Regulatory Minimums
The following chart presents the Basel III minimum CET1 capital ratio during the transitional periods and on a fully phased-in basis under the Basel
III rules currently in effect.
The capital adequacy of the Firm and its IDI subsidiaries, both during
the transitional period and upon full phase-in, is evaluated against the
Basel III approach (Standardized or Advanced) which, for each
quarter, results in the lower ratio. The Firm’s Basel III Standardized
Fully Phased-In risk-based ratios are currently more binding than the
Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In risk-based ratios, and the Firm
expects that this will remain the case for the foreseeable future.
Additional information regarding the Firm’s capital ratios, as well as
the U.S. federal regulatory capital standards to which the Firm is
subject, is presented in Note 26. For further information on the Firm’s
Basel III measures, refer to the Firm’s Pillar 3 Regulatory Capital
Disclosures reports, which are available on the Firm’s website
(https://jpmorganchaseco.gcs-web.com/financial-information/basel-
pillar-3-us-lcr-disclosures).
All banking institutions are currently required to have a minimum
CET1 capital ratio of 4.5% of risk weighted assets. Certain banking
organizations, including the Firm, are required to hold additional
amounts of capital to serve as a “capital conservation buffer”. The
capital conservation buffer is intended to be used to absorb potential
losses in times of financial or economic stress. The capital
conservation buffer was subject to a phase-in period that began January 1, 2016 and continued through the end of 2018.
As an expansion of the capital conservation buffer, the Firm is also
required to hold additional levels of capital in the form of a GSIB
surcharge and a countercyclical capital buffer.
Under the Federal Reserve’s final rule, the Firm is required to calculate
its GSIB surcharge on an annual basis under two separately prescribed
methods, and is subject to the higher of the two. The first (“Method
1”), reflects the GSIB surcharge as prescribed by the Basel
Committee’s assessment methodology, and is calculated across five
criteria: size, cross-jurisdictional activity, interconnectedness,
complexity and substitutability. The second (“Method 2”), modifies the
Method 1 requirements to include a measure of short-term wholesale
funding in place of substitutability, and introduces a GSIB score
“multiplication factor”. The following table represents the Firm’s
GSIB surcharge.
 2018 2017
Fully Phased-In:  
Method 1 2.50% 2.50%
Method 2 3.50% 3.50%
Transitional(a) 2.625% 1.75%
(a)The GSIB surchar ge is subject to transition provisions (in 25% increments) through the
end of 2018.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  87
Management’ s discussion and analysis
The Firm’s effective GSIB surcharge as calculated under Method 2 for
2019 is anticipated to be 3.5%.
The Federal Reserve's framework for setting the countercyclical capital
buffer takes into account the macro financial environment in which
large, internationally active banks function. As of December 31, 2018,
the U.S. countercyclical capital buffer remained at 0%. The Federal
Reserve will continue to review the buffer at least annually. The buffer
can be increased if the Federal Reserve, FDIC and OCC determine that
credit growth in the economy has become excessive and can be
calibrated up to an additional 2.5% of RWA subject to a 12-month
implementation period.
Failure to maintain regulatory capital equal to or in excess of the risk-
based regulatory capital minimum plus the capital conservation buffer
(inclusive of the GSIB surcharge) and any countercyclical buffer may
result in limitations to the amount of capital that the Firm may
distribute, such as through dividends and common equity repurchases. Leverage-based Capital Regulatory Minimums
Supplementary leverage ratio
The SLR is defined as Tier 1 capital under Basel III divided by the
Firm’s total leverage exposure. Total leverage exposure is calculated
by taking the Firm’s total average on balance sheet assets, less amounts
permitted to be deducted for Tier 1 capital, and adding certain off-
balance sheet exposures, such as undrawn commitments and
derivatives potential future exposure.
Failure to maintain an SLR ratio equal to or greater than the regulatory
minimum may result in limitations on the amount of capital that the
Firm may distribute.
In addition to meeting the capital ratio requirements of Basel III, the
Firm and its IDI subsidiaries also must maintain minimum capital and
leverage ratios in order to be “well-capitalized” under the regulations
issued by the Federal Reserve and the Prompt Corrective Action
(“PCA”) requirements of the FDIC Improvement Act (“FDICIA”),
respectively. For additional information, refer to Note 26.
88  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
The following tables present the Firm’s Transitional and Fully Phased-In risk-based and leverage-based capital metrics under both the Basel III
Standardized and Advanced Approaches. The Firm’s Basel III ratios exceeded both the Transitional and Fully Phased-In regulatory minimums as of
December 31, 2018 and 2017.
 Transitional/Fully Phased-In (c)
Transitional Fully Phased-In
December 31, 2018
(in millions, except ratios) Standardized  Advanced Minimum capital ratios Minimum capital ratios
Risk-based capital metrics:     
CET1 capital $ 183,474  $ 183,474   
Tier 1 capital 209,093  209,093   
Total capital 237,51 1 227,435   
Risk-weighted assets 1,528,916  1,421,205   
CET1 capital ratio 12.0% 12.9% 9.0% 10.5%
Tier 1 capital ratio 13.7  14.7 10.5 12.0
Total capital ratio 15.5  16.0 12.5 14.0
 Leverage-based capital metrics:     
Adjusted average assets (a) $ 2,589,887  $ 2,589,887   
Tier 1 leverage ratio 8.1% 8.1% 4.0% 4.0%
Total leverage exposure NA  $ 3,269,988   
SLR (b) NA  6.4% NA 5.0%(b) 
 Transitional Fully Phased-In
December 31, 2017
(in millions, except ratios)
Standardized AdvancedMinimum capital
ratios Standardized AdvancedMinimum capital
ratios
Risk-based capital metrics:      
CET1 capital $ 183,300 $ 183,300  $ 183,244 $ 183,244  
Tier 1 capital 208,644 208,644  208,564 208,564  
Total capital 238,395 227,933  237,960 227,498  
Risk-weighted assets 1,499,506 1,435,825  1,509,762 1,446,696  
CET1 capital ratio 12.2% 12.8% 7.50% 12.1% 12.7% 10.5%
Tier 1 capital ratio 13.9 14.5 9.00 13.8 14.4 12.0
Total capital ratio 15.9 15.9 11.00 15.8 15.7 14.0
Leverage  based capital metrics:      
Adjusted average assets (a) $ 2,514,270 $ 2,514,270  $ 2,514,822 $ 2,514,822  
Tier 1 leverage ratio 8.3% 8.3% 4.0% 8.3% 8.3% 4.0%
Total leverage exposure NA $ 3,204,463  NA $ 3,205,015  
SLR NA 6.5% NA NA 6.5% 5.0%(b) 
(a)Adjusted average assets, for purposes of calculating the Tier 1 leverage ratio, includes total quarterly average assets adjusted for on-balance sheet assets that are subject to deduction from Tier 1
capital, predominantly goodwill and other intangible assets.
(b)Effective January 1, 2018, the SLR was fully phased-in under Basel III. The December 31, 2017 amounts were calculated under the Basel III Transitional rules.
(c)The Firm’ s capital ratios as of December 31, 2018 were equivalent whether calculated on a transitional or fully phased-in basis.
The Firm believes that it will operate with a Basel III CET1 capital ratio between 11% and 12% over the medium term.
For additional information on the Firm, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A.’s capital, RWA and capital ratios under Basel III
Standardized and Advanced Fully Phased-In rules and the SLR calculated under the Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In rules, all of which are
considered key regulatory capital measures, refer to Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm’s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Key
Performance Measures on pages 57-59.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  89
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Capital components
The following table presents reconciliations of total stockholders’
equity to Basel III Fully Phased-In CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and
Basel III Advanced and Standardized Fully Phased-In Total capital as
of December 31, 2018 and 2017.
(in millions)December 31,
2018December 31,
2017
Total stockholders’ equity $ 256,515$ 255,693
Less: Preferred stock 26,068 26,068
Common stockholders’ equity 230,447 229,625
Less:
Goodwill 47,471 47,507
Other intangible assets 748 855
Other CET1 capital adjustments 1,034 223
Add:
Deferred tax liabilities(a) 2,280 2,204
Standardized/Advanced Fully Phased-In
CET1 capital 183,474 183,244
Preferred stock 26,068 26,068
Less:
Other Tier 1 adjustments 449 748
Standardized/Advanced Fully Phased-In
Tier 1 capital 209,093 208,564
Long-term debt and other instruments
qualifying as Tier 2 capital 13,772 14,827
Qualifying allowance for credit losses 14,500 14,672
Other 146 (103)
Standardized Fully Phased-In Tier 2 capital 28,418 29,396
Standardized Fully Phased-in Total capital 237,511 237,960
Adjustment in qualifying allowance for credit
losses for Advanced Tier 2 capital (10,076) (10,462)
Advanced Fully Phased-In Tier 2 capital 18,342 18,934
Advanced Fully Phased-In Total capital $ 227,435$ 227,498
(a)Represents certain deferred tax liabilities related to tax-deductible goodwill and
identifiable intangibles created in nontaxable transactions, which are netted against
goodwill and other intangibles when calculating TCE. Capital rollforward
The following table presents the changes in Basel III Fully Phased-In
CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital for the year ended
December 31, 2018.
Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2018
Standardized/Advanced CET1 capital at December 31, 2017 $ 183,244
Net income applicable to common equity 30,923
Dividends declared on common stock (9,214)
Net purchase of treasury stock (17,899)
Changes in additional paid-in capital (1,417)
Changes related to AOCI (1,203)
Adjustment related to DVA(a) (1,165)
Changes related to other CET1 capital adjustments 205
Increase in Standardized/Advanced CET1 capital 230
Standardized/Advanced CET1 capital at
December 31, 2018 183,474
 
Standardized/Advanced Tier 1 capital at
December 31, 2017 208,564
Change in CET1 capital 230
Net issuance of noncumulative perpetual preferred stock —
Other 299
Increase in Standardized/Advanced Tier 1 capital 529
Standardized/Advanced Tier 1 capital at
December 31, 2018 209,093
 
Standardized Tier 2 capital at December 31, 2017 29,396
Change in long-term debt and other instruments qualifying as Tier 2 (1,055)
Change in qualifying allowance for credit losses (172)
Other 249
Decrease in Standardized Tier 2 capital (978)
Standardized Tier 2 capital at December 31, 2018 28,418
Standardized Total capital at December 31, 2018 237,511
Advanced Tier 2 capital at December 31, 2017 18,934
Change in long-term debt and other instruments qualifying as Tier 2 (1,055)
Change in qualifying allowance for credit losses 214
Other 249
Decrease in Advanced Tier 2 capital (592)
Advanced Tier 2 capital at December 31, 2018 18,342
Advanced Total capital at December 31, 2018 $ 227,435
(a)Includes DVA related to structured notes recorded in AOCI.
90  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
RWA rollforward
The following table presents changes in the components of RWA under Basel III Standardized and Advanced Fully Phased-In for the year ended
December 31, 2018. The amounts in the rollforward categories are estimates, based on the predominant driver of the change.
 Standardized  Advanced
Year ended December 31, 2018
(in millions) Credit risk RWA Market risk RWA Total RWA  Credit risk RWA Market risk RWAOperational risk
RWA Total RWA
December 31, 2017 $ 1,386,060$ 123,702$ 1,509,762 $ 922,905$ 123,791$ 400,000$ 1,446,696
Model & data changes(a) (10,431) (13,191) (23,622) 3,750 (13,191) — (9,441)
Portfolio runoff(b) (8,381) — (8,381) (10,161) — — (10,161)
Movement in portfolio levels(c) 55,805 (4,648) 51,157 10,153 (4,624) (11,418) (5,889)
Changes in RWA 36,993 (17,839) 19,154 3,742 (17,815) (11,418) (25,491)
December 31, 2018 $ 1,423,053$ 105,863$ 1,528,916 $ 926,647$ 105,976$ 388,582$ 1,421,205
(a)Model & data changes refer to material movements in levels of R WA as a result of revised methodologies and/or treatment per regulatory guidance (exclusive of rule changes).
(b)Portfolio runof f for credit risk R WA primarily reflects  reduced risk from position rollof fs in legacy portfolios in  Home Lending .
(c)Movement in portfolio levels (inclusive of rule changes) refers to: changes in book size, composition, credit quality , and market movements for credit risk R WA; changes in position and market
movements for market risk R WA; and updates to cumulative losses for operational risk R WA.
Supplementary leverage ratio
The following table presents the components of the Firm’s Fully
Phased-In SLR as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.
(in millions, except ratio) December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017
Tier 1 capital $ 209,093 $ 208,564
Total average assets 2,636,505$ 2,562,155
Less: Adjustments for deductions from
Tier 1 capital 46,618 47,333
Total adjusted average assets(a) 2,589,887 2,514,822
Off-balance sheet exposures(b) 680,101 690,193
Total leverage exposure $ 3,269,988$ 3,205,015
SLR 6.4% 6.5%
(a)Adjusted average assets, for purposes of calculating the SLR, includes total quarterly
average assets adjusted for on-balance sheet assets that are subject to deduction from
Tier 1 capital, predominantly goodwill and other intangible assets.
(b)Off-balance sheet exposures are calculated as the average of the three month-end
spot balances during the reporting quarter.
For JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.’s and Chase Bank USA, N.A.’s SLR
ratios, refer to Note 26.
Line of business equity
Each business segment is allocated capital by taking into consideration
capital levels of similarly rated peers and applicable regulatory capital
requirements. ROE is measured and internal targets for expected
returns are established as key measures of a business segment’s
performance.
The Firm’s allocation methodology incorporates Basel III Standardized
RWA, Basel III Advanced RWA, leverage, the GSIB surcharge, and a
simulation of capital in a severe stress environment. On at least an
annual basis, the assumptions and methodologies used in capital
allocation are assessed and as a result, the capital allocated to lines of
business may change. As of January 1, 2019, line of business capital
allocations have increased due to a combination of changes in the
relative weights toward Standardized RWA and stress, a higher
capitalization rate, updated stress simulations, and general business
growth.   The table below presents the Firm’s assessed level of capital allocated
to each line of business as of the dates indicated.
Line of business equity (Allocated capital)
  December 31,
(in billions)January 1,
 2019 2018 2017
Consumer & Community Banking $ 52.0 $ 51.0$ 51.0
Corporate & Investment Bank 80.0 70.0 70.0
Commercial Banking 22.0 20.0 20.0
Asset & Wealth Management 10.5 9.0 9.0
Corporate 65.9 80.4 79.6
Total common stockholders’ equity $ 230.4 $ 230.4$ 229.6
Capital actions
Preferred stock
Preferred stock dividends declared were $1.6 billion for the year ended
December 31, 2018.
On January 24, 2019, the Firm issued $1.85 billion of 6.00% non-
cumulative preferred stock, Series EE, and on January 30, 2019, the
Firm announced that it will redeem all $925 million of its outstanding
6.70% non-cumulative preferred stock, Series T, on March 1, 2019. On
September 21, 2018, the Firm issued $1.7 billion of 5.75% non-
cumulative preferred stock, Series DD. On October 30, 2018, the Firm
redeemed $1.7 billion of its fixed-to-floating rate non-cumulative
perpetual preferred stock, Series I.
On October 20, 2017, the Firm issued $1.3 billion of fixed-to-floating
rate non-cumulative preferred stock, Series CC, with an initial
dividend rate of 4.625%. On December 1, 2017, the Firm redeemed all
$1.3 billion of its outstanding 5.50% non-cumulative preferred stock,
Series O.
For additional information on the Firm’s preferred stock, refer to Note
20.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  91
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Trust preferred securities
On September 10, 2018, the Firm’s last remaining issuer of
outstanding trust preferred securities (“issuer trust”) was liquidated,
resulting in $475 million of trust preferred securities and $15 million
of trust common securities originally issued by the issuer trust being
cancelled.
On December 18, 2017, the Delaware trusts that issued
seven series of outstanding trust preferred securities were
liquidated, and $1.6 billion of trust preferred and $56 million of trust
common securities originally issued by those trusts were cancelled.
For additional information, refer to Note 19.
Common stock dividends
The Firm’s common stock dividends are planned as part of the Capital
Management governance framework in line with the Firm’s capital
management objectives.
On September 18, 2018, the Firm announced that its Board of
Directors increased the quarterly common stock dividend from $0.56
per share to $0.80 per share, effective with the dividend paid on
October 31, 2018. The Firm’s dividends are subject to the Board of
Directors’ approval on a quarterly basis.
For information regarding dividend restrictions, refer to Note 20 and
Note 25.
The following table shows the common dividend payout ratio based on
net income applicable to common equity.
Year ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016
Common dividend payout ratio 30% 33% 30%
Common equity
During the year ended December 31, 2018, warrant holders exercised
their right to purchase 14.9 million shares of the Firm’s common stock.
The Firm issued from treasury stock 9.4 million shares of its common
stock as a result of these exercises. There were no warrants outstanding
at December 31, 2018, as any warrants that were not exercised on or
before October 29, 2018, have expired. At December 31, 2017, the
Firm had 15.0 million warrants outstanding.
Effective June 28, 2018, the Firm’s Board of Directors authorized the
repurchase of up to $20.7 billion of common equity between July 1,
2018 and June 30, 2019, as part of its annual capital plan. As of
December 31, 2018, $10.4 billion of authorized repurchase capacity
remained under the common equity repurchase program. The following table sets forth the Firm’s repurchases of common
equity for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. There
were no repurchases of warrants during the years ended December 31,
2018, 2017 and 2016.
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 2018  2017  2016
Total number of shares of common stock
repurchased 181.5  166.6  140.4
Aggregate purchase price of common stock
repurchases $ 19,983  $ 15,410  $ 9,082
The Firm from time to time enters into written trading plans under
Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to facilitate
repurchases in accordance with the common equity repurchase
program. A Rule 10b5-1 repurchase plan allows the Firm to repurchase
its equity during periods when it would not otherwise be repurchasing
common equity — for example, during internal trading blackout
periods. All purchases under Rule 10b5-1 plans must be made
according to predefined schedules established when the Firm is not
aware of material nonpublic information.
The authorization to repurchase common equity will be utilized at
management’s discretion, and the timing of purchases and the exact
amount of common equity that may be repurchased is subject to
various factors, including market conditions; legal and regulatory
considerations affecting the amount and timing of repurchase activity;
the Firm’s capital position (taking into account goodwill and
intangibles); internal capital generation; and alternative investment
opportunities. The repurchase program does not include specific price
targets or timetables; may be executed through open market purchases
or privately negotiated transactions, or utilizing Rule 10b5-1 plans; and
may be suspended by management at any time.
For additional information regarding repurchases of the Firm’s equity
securities, refer to Part II, Item 5: Market for Registrant’s Common
Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities on page 30.
92  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Other capital requirements
Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity (“TLAC”)
On December 15, 2016, the Federal Reserve issued its final TLAC rule
which requires the top-tier holding companies of eight U.S. GSIB
holding companies, including the Firm, to maintain minimum levels of
external TLAC and external long-term debt that satisfies certain
eligibility criteria (“eligible LTD”), effective January 1, 2019.
The minimum external TLAC and the minimum level of eligible long-
term debt requirements are shown below:
(a) RWA is the greater of Standardized and Advanced.
Failure to maintain TLAC equal to or in excess of the regulatory
minimum plus applicable buffers may result in limitations to the
amount of capital that the Firm may distribute, such as through
dividends and common equity repurchases.
The final TLAC rule permanently grandfathered all long-term debt
issued before December 31, 2016, to the extent these securities would
be ineligible because they contained impermissible acceleration rights
or were governed by non-U.S. law. As of December 31, 2018, the Firm
exceeded the minimum requirements under the rule to which it became
subject to on January 1, 2019. The following table presents the eligible external TLAC and LTD
amounts, as well as a representation of the amounts as a percentage of
the Firm’s total RWA and total leverage exposure.    
December 31, 2018
(in billions, except ratio)Eligible External
TLAC Eligible LTD
Total eligible TLAC & LTD $ 380.5$ 160.5
% of RWA 24.9% 10.5%
Minimum requirement 23.0 9.5
Surplus/(shortfall) $ 28.9$ 15.3
% of total leverage exposure 11.6% 4.9%
Minimum requirement(a) 9.5 4.5
Surplus/(shortfall) $ 69.9$ 13.4
For information on the financial consequences to holders of the Firm’s
debt and equity securities in a resolution scenario, refer to Part I, Item
1A: Risk Factors on pages 7-28 of the Firm’s 2018 Form 10-K.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  93
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Broker-dealer regulatory capital
J.P. Morgan Securities
JPMorgan Chase’s principal U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary is J.P.
Morgan Securities. J.P. Morgan Securities is subject to Rule 15c3-1
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Net Capital Rule”).
J.P. Morgan Securities is also registered as a futures commission
merchant and subject to Rule 1.17 of the CFTC.
J.P. Morgan Securities has elected to compute its minimum net capital
requirements in accordance with the “Alternative Net Capital
Requirements” of the Net Capital Rule. Under the market and credit risk standards of Appendix E of the Net
Capital Rule, J.P. Morgan Securities is eligible to use the alternative
method of computing net capital if, in addition to meeting its minimum
net capital requirements, it maintains tentative net capital of at least
$1.0 billion. J.P. Morgan Securities is required to notify the SEC in the
event that tentative net capital is less than $5.0 billion. As of December
31, 2018, J.P. Morgan Securities maintained tentative net capital in
excess of the minimum and notification requirements.
The following table presents J.P.Morgan Securities’ net capital
information:
December  31, 2018 Net capital
(in millions) Actual Minimum
J.P. Morgan Securities $ 16,648$ 3,069
J.P. Morgan Securities plc
J.P. Morgan Securities plc is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and is the Firm’s principal operating subsidiary in the U.K.
It has authority to engage in banking, investment banking and broker-dealer activities. J.P. Morgan Securities plc is jointly regulated by the PRA and
the FCA. J.P. Morgan Securities plc is subject to the European Union Capital Requirements Regulation and the PRA capital rules, each of which
implemented Basel III and thereby subject J.P. Morgan Securities plc to its requirements.
The following table presents J.P. Morgan Securities plc’s capital information:
December  31, 2018 Total capital(a) CET1 ratio Total capital ratio
(in millions, except ratios) Estimated Estimated Minimum Estimated Minimum
J.P. Morgan Securities plc $ 53,086 17.4 4.5 22.5 8.0
(a)Includes the tier 2 qualifying subordinated debt securities issued to meet the MREL requirements to which J.P. Morgan Securities plc became subject to on January 1, 2019. For
additional information on MREL, refer to Supervision & Regulation on pages 1-6
94  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
LIQUIDITY  RISK MANAGEMENT
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Firm will be unable to meet its
contractual and contingent financial obligations as they arise or that it
does not have the appropriate amount, composition and tenor of
funding and liquidity to support its assets and liabilities.
Liquidity risk oversight
The Firm has a liquidity risk oversight function whose primary
objective is to provide assessment, measurement, monitoring, and
control of liquidity risk across the Firm. Liquidity risk oversight is
managed through a dedicated firmwide Liquidity Risk Oversight
group. The CTC CRO, who reports to the Firm’s CRO, is responsible
for firmwide Liquidity Risk Oversight. Liquidity Risk Oversight’s
responsibilities include: 
•Establishing and monitoring limits and indicators, including
liquidity risk appetite tolerances;
•Monitoring and reporting internal firmwide and legal entity
liquidity stress tests as well as regulatory defined liquidity stress
tests;
•Approving or escalating for review new or updated liquidity stress
assumptions;
•Monitoring liquidity positions, balance sheet variances and funding
activities;
•Conducting ad hoc analysis to identify potential emerging liquidity
risks; and
•Performing independent review of liquidity risk management
processes.
Liquidity management
Treasury and CIO is responsible for liquidity management. The
primary objectives of effective liquidity management are to:
•Ensure that the Firm’s core businesses and material legal entities
are able to operate in support of client needs and meet contractual
and contingent financial obligations through normal economic
cycles as well as during stress events, and
•Manage an optimal funding mix and availability of liquidity
sources.
As part of the Firm’s overall liquidity management strategy, the Firm
manages liquidity and funding using a centralized, global approach in
order to:
•Optimize liquidity sources and uses;
•Monitor exposures;
•Identify constraints on the transfer of liquidity between the Firm’s
legal entities; and  
•Maintain the appropriate amount of surplus liquidity at a firmwide
and legal entity level, where relevant.
In the context of the Firm’s liquidity management, Treasury and CIO is
responsible for:
•Analyzing and understanding the liquidity characteristics of the
assets and liabilities of the Firm, lines of business and legal entities, taking into account legal, regulatory, and
operational restrictions;
•Developing internal liquidity stress testing assumptions;
•Defining and monitoring firmwide and legal entity-specific
liquidity strategies, policies, reporting and contingency funding
plans;
•Managing liquidity within the Firm’s approved liquidity risk
appetite tolerances and limits;
•Managing compliance with regulatory requirements related to
funding and liquidity risk; and
•Setting transfer pricing in accordance with underlying liquidity
characteristics of balance sheet assets and liabilities as well as
certain off-balance sheet items.
Risk governance
Committees responsible for liquidity governance include the firmwide
ALCO as well as line of business and regional ALCOs, the Treasurer
Committee, and the CTC Risk Committee. In addition, the DRPC
reviews and recommends to the Board of Directors, for formal
approval, the Firm’s liquidity risk tolerances, liquidity strategy, and
liquidity policy at least annually. For further discussion of ALCO and
other risk-related committees, refer to Enterprise-wide Risk
Management on pages 79–140.
Internal stress testing
Liquidity stress tests are intended to ensure that the Firm has sufficient
liquidity under a variety of adverse scenarios, including scenarios
analyzed as part of the Firm’s resolution and recovery planning. Stress
scenarios are produced for JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“Parent
Company”) and the Firm’s material legal entities on a regular basis,
and ad hoc stress tests are performed, as needed, in response to specific
market events or concerns. Liquidity stress tests assume all of the
Firm’s contractual financial obligations are met and take into
consideration:
•Varying levels of access to unsecured and secured funding markets,
•Estimated non-contractual and contingent cash outflows, and
•Potential impediments to the availability and transferability of
liquidity between jurisdictions and material legal entities such as
regulatory, legal or other restrictions.
Liquidity outflow assumptions are modeled across a range of time
horizons and currency dimensions and contemplate both market and
idiosyncratic stresses.
Results of stress tests are considered in the formulation of the Firm’s
funding plan and assessment of its liquidity position. The Parent
Company acts as a source of funding for the Firm through equity and
long-term debt issuances, and the IHC provides funding support to the
ongoing operations of the Parent Company and its subsidiaries, as
necessary. The Firm maintains liquidity at the Parent Company and the
IHC, in addition to liquidity held at the
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  95
Management’ s discussion and analysis
operating subsidiaries, at levels sufficient to comply with liquidity risk
tolerances and minimum liquidity requirements, and to manage
through periods of stress where access to normal funding sources is
disrupted.
Contingency funding plan
The Firm’s contingency funding plan (“CFP”), which is approved by
the firmwide ALCO and the DRPC, is a compilation of procedures and
action plans for managing liquidity through stress events. The CFP
incorporates the limits and indicators set by the Liquidity Risk
Oversight group. These limits and indicators are reviewed regularly to
identify emerging risks or vulnerabilities in the Firm’s liquidity
position. The CFP identifies the alternative contingent funding and
liquidity resources available to the Firm and its legal entities in a
period of stress.
Liquidity Coverage Ratio
The LCR rule requires the Firm to maintain an amount of
unencumbered High Quality Liquid Assets (“HQLA”) that is sufficient
to meet its estimated total net cash outflows over a prospective 30
calendar-day period of significant stress. HQLA is the amount of liquid
assets that qualify for inclusion in the LCR. HQLA primarily consist of
unencumbered cash and certain high quality liquid securities as
defined in the LCR rule.
Under the LCR rule, the amounts of HQLA held by JPMorgan Chase
Bank N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A that are in excess of each
entity’s standalone 100% minimum LCR requirement, and that are not
transferable to non-bank affiliates, must be excluded from the Firm’s
reported HQLA. The LCR is required to be a minimum of 100%.
The following table summarizes the Firm’s average LCR for the three
months ended December 31, 2018, September 30, 2018 and
December 31, 2017 based on the Firm’s current interpretation of the
finalized LCR framework.
 Three months ended
Average amount
(in millions) December 31, 2018September 30,
2018December 31,
2017
HQLA   
Eligible cash(a) $ 297,069 $ 344,660$ 370,126
Eligible securities(b)(c) 232,201 190,349 189,955
Total HQLA(d) $ 529,270 $ 535,009$ 560,081
Net cash outflows $ 467,704 $ 466,803$ 472,078
LCR 113% 115% 119%
Net excess HQLA (d) $ 61,566 $ 68,206$ 88,003
(a)Represents cash on deposit at central banks, primarily Federal Reserve Banks.
(b)Predominantly U.S. Treasuries, U.S. Agency MBS, and sovereign bonds net of
applicable haircuts under the LCR rules.
(c)HQLA eligible securities may be reported in securities borrowed or purchased under
resale agreements, trading assets, or investment securities on the Firm’s
Consolidated balance sheets.
(d)Excludes average excess HQLA at JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank
USA, N.A. that are not transferable to non-bank affiliates.
The Firm’s average LCR decreased during the three months ended
December 31, 2018, compared with the three month period ended
September 30, 2018 due to a decrease in the average amount of
reportable HQLA. Although HQLA increased in JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A. during the period, there was a decrease in the amount of HQLA in JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A. that was determined to be
transferable to non-bank affiliates.  This decrease was based on a
change in the Firm’s interpretation of amounts available for transfer.
The Firm’s average LCR decreased for the three months ended
December 31, 2018, compared with the prior year period, due to a
reduction in average HQLA primarily driven by (a) long-term debt
maturities and CIB activities, and (b) a decrease in the amount of
HQLA in JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A that
was determined to be transferable to non-bank affiliates based on a
change in the Firm’s interpretation of amounts available for transfer.
The Firm’s average LCR may fluctuate from period to period, due to
changes in its HQLA and estimated net cash outflows under the LCR
as a result of ongoing business activity. The Firm’s HQLA are
expected to be available to meet its liquidity needs in a time of stress.
For a further discussion of the Firm’s LCR, refer to the Firm’s US LCR
Disclosure reports, which are available on the Firm’s website at:
(https://jpmorganchaseco.gcs-web.com/financial-information/basel-
pillar-3-us-lcr-disclosures).
Other liquidity sources
As of December 31, 2018, in addition to assets reported in the Firm’s
HQLA under the LCR rule, the Firm had approximately $226 billion of
unencumbered marketable securities, such as equity securities and
fixed income debt securities, available to raise liquidity, if required.
This includes HQLA-eligible securities included as part of the excess
liquidity at JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. that are not transferable to
non-bank affiliates.
As of December 31, 2018, the Firm also had approximately $276
billion of available borrowing capacity at various FHLBs, discount
windows at the Federal Reserve Banks and various other central banks
as a result of collateral pledged by the Firm to such banks. This
borrowing capacity excludes the benefit of securities reported in the
Firm’s HQLA or other unencumbered securities that are currently
pledged at the Federal Reserve Bank discount windows. Although
available, the Firm does not view the borrowing capacity at Federal
Reserve Bank discount windows and the various other central banks as
a primary source of liquidity.
96  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Funding
Sources of funds
Management believes that the Firm’s unsecured and secured funding
capacity is sufficient to meet its on- and off-balance sheet obligations.
The Firm funds its global balance sheet through diverse sources of
funding including a stable deposit franchise as well as secured and
unsecured funding in the capital markets. The Firm’s loan portfolio is
funded with a portion of the Firm’s deposits, through securitizations
and, with respect to a portion of the Firm’s real estate-related loans,
with secured borrowings from the FHLBs. Deposits in excess of the
amount utilized to fund loans are primarily invested by Treasury and
CIO in the Firm’s investment securities portfolio or deployed in cash
or other short-term liquid investments based on their interest rate and
liquidity risk characteristics. Securities borrowed or purchased under resale
agreements and trading assets-debt and equity instruments are
primarily funded by the Firm’s securities loaned or sold under
agreements to repurchase, trading liabilities–debt and equity
instruments, and a portion of the Firm’s long-term debt and
stockholders’ equity. In addition to funding securities borrowed or
purchased under resale agreements and trading assets-debt and equity
instruments, proceeds from the Firm’s debt and equity issuances are
used to fund certain loans and other financial and non-financial assets,
or may be invested in the Firm’s investment securities portfolio. Refer
to the discussion below for additional information relating to Deposits,
Short-term funding, and Long-term funding and issuance.
Deposits
The table below summarizes, by line of business, the period-end and average deposit balances as of and for the years ended December 31, 2018 and
2017.
Deposits  Year ended December 31,
As of or for the year ended December 31,   Average
(in millions) 2018 2017 2018 2017
Consumer & Community Banking $ 678,854$ 659,885 $ 670,388$ 640,219
Corporate & Investment Bank 482,084 455,883 477,250 447,697
Commercial Banking 170,859 181,512 170,822 176,884
Asset & Wealth Management 138,546 146,407 137,272 148,982
Corporate 323 295 729 3,604
Total Firm $ 1,470,666$ 1,443,982 $ 1,456,461$ 1,417,386
A key strength of the Firm is its diversified deposit franchise, through
each of its lines of business, which provides a stable source of funding
and limits reliance on the wholesale funding markets. A significant
portion of the Firm’s deposits are consumer and wholesale operating
deposits, which are both considered to be stable sources of liquidity.
Wholesale operating deposits are considered to be stable sources of
liquidity because they are generated from customers that maintain
operating service relationships with the Firm.
The table below shows the loan and deposit balances, the loans-to-
deposits ratios, and deposits as a percentage of total liabilities, as of
December 31, 2018 and 2017.
As of December 31,
(in billions except ratios) 2018 2017
Deposits $ 1,470.7$ 1,444.0
Deposits as a % of total liabilities 62% 63%
Loans 984.6 930.7
Loans-to-deposits ratio 67% 64%
The Firm believes that average deposit balances are generally more
representative of deposit trends than period-end deposit balances. Average deposits increased for the year ended December 31, 2018 in
CCB and CIB, partially offset by decreases in AWM, CB and
Corporate.
•The increase in CCB reflects the continuation of growth from new
accounts, and in CIB reflects growth in operating deposits in both
Treasury Services and Securities Services driven by growth in
client activity. 
•The decrease in AWM was driven by balance migration
predominantly into the Firm’s investment-related products. The
decrease in CB was driven by a reduction in non-operating
deposits. The decrease in Corporate was predominantly due to
maturities of wholesale non-operating deposits, consistent with the
Firm’s efforts to reduce such deposits.
For further information on deposit and liability balance trends, refer to
the discussion of the Firm’s Business Segment Results and the
Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis on pages 60-78 and pages 52–
53, respectively.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  97
Management’ s discussion and analysis
The following table summarizes short-term and long-term funding, excluding deposits, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, and average balances for
the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. For additional information, refer to the Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis on pages 52–53 and
Note 19.
Sources of funds (excluding deposits)    
As of or for the year ended December 31,   Average
(in millions) 2018 2017  2018 2017
Commercial paper $ 30,059$ 24,186 $ 27,834$ 19,920
Other borrowed funds(a) 8,789 10,727 11,369 10,755
Total short-term unsecured funding(a) $ 38,848$ 34,913 $ 39,203$ 30,675
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase(a)(b) $ 171,975$147,713 $ 177,629$ 173,450
Securities loaned(a)(b) 9,481 9,211 10,692 12,798
Other borrowed funds(a)(c) 30,428 16,889 24,320 15,857
Obligations of Firm-administered multi-seller conduits(d) 4,843 3,045 3,396 3,206
Total short-term secured funding(a) $ 216,727$176,858 $ 216,037$ 205,311
Senior notes $ 162,733$155,852 $ 153,162$ 154,352
Trust preferred securities — 690 471 2,276
Subordinated debt 16,743 16,553 16,178 18,832
Structured notes(e) 53,090 45,727 49,640 42,918
Total long-term unsecured funding $ 232,566$218,822 $ 219,451$ 218,378
Credit card securitization(d) $ 13,404$ 21,278 $ 15,900$ 25,933
Other securitizations(d)(f) — — — 626
Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) advances 44,455 60,617 52,121 69,916
Other long-term secured funding(g) 5,010 4,641 4,842 3,195
Total long-term secured funding $ 62,869$ 86,536 $ 72,863$ 99,670
Preferred stock(h) $ 26,068$ 26,068 $ 26,249$ 26,212
Common stockholders’ equity(h) $ 230,447$229,625 $ 229,222$ 230,350
(a)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
(b)Primarily consists of short-term securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase.
(c)Includes FHLB advances with original maturities of less than one year of $1 1.4 billion as of December 31, 2018; there were no FHLB advances with original maturities of less than one year as
of December 31, 2017.
(d)Included in beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities on the Firm’ s Consolidated balance sheets.
(e)Includes certain TLAC-eligible long-term unsecured debt issued by the Parent Company .
(f)Other securitizations includes securitizations of student loans. The Firm deconsolidated the student loan securitization entities in the second quarter of 2017 as it no longer had a controlling
financial interest in these entities as a result of the sale of the student loan portfolio. The Firm’ s wholesale businesses also securitize loans for client-driven transactions, which are not considered
to be a source of funding for the Firm and are not included in the table.
(g)Includes long-term structured notes which are secured.
(h)For additional information on preferred stock and common stockholders’  equity refer to Capital Risk Management on pages 85-94 , Consolidated statements of changes in stockholders’  equity ,
Note 20 and Note 21.
Short-term funding
The Firm’s sources of short-term secured funding primarily consist of
securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase. These
instruments are secured predominantly by high-quality securities
collateral, including government-issued debt and agency MBS, and
constitute a significant portion of the federal funds purchased and
securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements on the
Consolidated balance sheets. The increase at December 31, 2018,
compared to December 31, 2017, was primarily due to higher client-
driven market-making activities and higher secured financing of
trading assets-debt and equity instruments in CIB. The balances
associated with securities loaned or sold under agreements to
repurchase fluctuate over time due to customers’ investment and
financing activities; the Firm’s demand for financing; the ongoing
management of the mix of the Firm’s liabilities, including its secured
and unsecured financing (for both the investment securities and market-making portfolios); and other market and
portfolio factors.
The Firm’s sources of short-term unsecured funding primarily consist
of issuance of wholesale commercial paper. The increase in
commercial paper was due to higher net issuance primarily for short-
term liquidity management.
Long-term funding and issuance
Long-term funding provides additional sources of stable funding and
liquidity for the Firm. The Firm’s long-term funding plan is driven
primarily by expected client activity, liquidity considerations, and
regulatory requirements, including TLAC. Long-term funding
objectives include maintaining diversification, maximizing market
access and optimizing funding costs. The Firm evaluates various
funding markets, tenors and currencies in creating its optimal long-
term funding plan.
98  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
The significant majority of the Firm’s long-term unsecured funding is issued by the Parent Company to provide maximum flexibility in support of
both bank and non-bank subsidiary funding needs. The Parent Company advances substantially all net funding proceeds to its subsidiary, the IHC.
The IHC does not issue debt to external counterparties. The following table summarizes long-term unsecured issuance and maturities or
redemptions for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. For additional information, refer to Note 19.
Long-term unsecured funding   
Year ended December 31, 2018 2017  2018 2017
(Notional in millions) Parent Company(b)  Subsidiaries(b)
Issuance    
Senior notes issued in the U.S. market $ 22,000$ 21,250 $ 9,562$ 62
Senior notes issued in non-U.S. markets 1,502 2,220 — —
Total senior notes 23,502 23,470 9,562 62
Structured notes(a) 2,444 2,516 25,410 26,524
Total long-term unsecured funding – issuance $ 25,946$ 25,986 $ 34,972$ 26,586
Maturities/redemptions    
Senior notes $ 19,141$ 20,971 $ 4,466$ 1,366
Subordinated debt 136 3,401 — 3,500
Structured notes 2,678 5,440 15,049 17,141
Total long-term unsecured funding – maturities/redemptions $ 21,955$ 29,812 $ 19,515$ 22,007
(a)Includes certain TLAC-eligible long-term unsecured debt issued by the Parent Company.
(b)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
The Firm raises secured long-term funding through securitization of consumer credit card loans and advances from the FHLBs. The following table
summarizes the securitization issuance and FHLB advances and their respective maturities or redemptions for the years ended December 31, 2018
and 2017.
Long-term secured funding
Year ended December 31, Issuance Maturities/Redemptions
(in millions) 2018 2017 2018 2017
Credit card securitization $ 1,396$ 1,545 $ 9,250$ 11,470
Other securitizations(a) — — — 55
FHLB advances 9,000 — 25,159 18,900
Other long-term secured funding(b) 377 2,354 289 731
Total long-term secured funding $ 10,773$ 3,899 $ 34,698$ 31,156
(a)Other securitizations includes securitizations of student loans. The Firm deconsolidated the student loan securitization entities in the second quarter of 2017 as it no longer had a
controlling financial interest in these entities as a result of the sale of the student loan portfolio.
(b)Includes long-term structured notes which are secured.
The Firm’s wholesale businesses also securitize loans for client-driven transactions; those client-driven loan securitizations are not considered to be
a source of funding for the Firm and are not included in the table above. For further description of the client-driven loan securitizations, refer to
Note 14.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  99
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Credit ratings
The cost and availability of financing are influenced by credit ratings.
Reductions in these ratings could have an adverse effect on the Firm’s
access to liquidity sources, increase the cost of funds, trigger additional
collateral or funding requirements and decrease the number of
investors and counterparties willing to lend to the Firm. Additionally,
the Firm’s funding requirements for VIEs and other third- party commitments may be adversely affected by a decline in credit
ratings. For additional information on the impact of a credit ratings
downgrade on the funding requirements for VIEs, and on derivatives
and collateral agreements, refer to SPEs on page 55, and liquidity risk
and credit-related contingent features in Note 5.
The credit ratings of the Parent Company and the Firm’s principal bank and non-bank subsidiaries as of December 31, 2018, were as follows.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Chase Bank USA, N.A.J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
J.P. Morgan Securities plc
December 31, 2018Long-term
issuerShort-term
issuer OutlookLong-term
issuerShort-term
issuer OutlookLong-term
issuerShort-term
issuer Outlook
Moody’s Investors Service A2 P-1 Stable Aa2 P-1 Stable Aa3 P-1 Stable
Standard & Poor’s A- A-2 Stable A+ A-1 Stable A+ A-1 Stable
Fitch Ratings AA- F1+ Stable AA F1+ Stable AA F1+ Stable
On October 25, 2018, Moody’s upgraded the Parent Company’s long-
term issuer rating to A2 (previously A3) and short-term issuer rating to
P-1 (previously P-2). The long-term issuer ratings were also upgraded
for JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A. to Aa2
(previously Aa3), and for J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan
Securities plc to Aa3 (previously A1).
On June 21, 2018, Fitch upgraded the Parent Company’s long-term
issuer rating to AA- (previously A+) and short-term issuer rating to
F1+ (previously F1). The long-term issuer ratings were also upgraded
to AA for JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A, Chase Bank USA, N.A., J.P.
Morgan Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities plc (all previously
AA-).
Downgrades of the Firm’s long-term ratings by one or two notches
could result in an increase in its cost of funds, and access to certain
funding markets could be reduced. The nature and magnitude of the
impact of ratings downgrades depends on numerous contractual and
behavioral factors which the Firm believes are incorporated in its
liquidity risk and stress testing metrics. The Firm believes that it maintains sufficient liquidity to withstand a potential decrease in
funding capacity due to ratings downgrades.
JPMorgan Chase’s unsecured debt does not contain requirements that
would call for an acceleration of payments, maturities or changes in
the structure of the existing debt, provide any limitations on future
borrowings or require additional collateral, based on unfavorable
changes in the Firm’s credit ratings, financial ratios, earnings, or stock
price.
Critical factors in maintaining high credit ratings include a stable and
diverse earnings stream, strong capital and liquidity ratios, strong
credit quality and risk management controls, and diverse funding
sources. Rating agencies continue to evaluate economic and
geopolitical trends, regulatory developments, future profitability, risk
management practices, and litigation matters, as well as their broader
ratings methodologies. Changes in any of these factors could lead to
changes in the Firm’s credit ratings.
100  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
REPUT ATION RISK MANAGEMENT
Reputation risk is the potential that an action, inaction, transaction,
investment or event will reduce trust in the Firm’s integrity or
competence by its various constituents, including clients,
counterparties, customers, investors, regulators, employees,
communities or the broader public.
Organization and management
Reputation Risk Management is an independent risk management
function that establishes the governance framework for managing
reputation risk across the Firm. The Firmwide Risk Executive for
Reputation Risk reports to the Firm’s CRO.
The Firm’s reputation risk management function includes the
following activities:
•Establishing a firmwide Reputation Risk Governance policy and
standards
•Managing the governance infrastructure and processes that
support consistent identification, escalation, management and
monitoring of reputation risk issues firmwide
•Providing oversight to LOB Reputation Risk Offices (“RRO”) on
certain situations that have the potential to damage the reputation
of the LOB or the Firm
The types of events that give rise to reputation risk are broad and could
be introduced in various ways, including by the Firm’s employees and
the clients, customers and counterparties with which the Firm does
business. These events could result in financial losses, litigation and
regulatory fines, as well as other damages to the Firm. As reputation
risk is inherently difficult to identify, manage, and quantify, an
independent reputation risk management governance function is
critical. Governance and oversight
The Firm’s Reputation Risk Governance policy establishes the
principles for managing reputation risk for the Firm, and is approved
annually by the Directors’ Risk Policy Committee. It is the
responsibility of employees in each LOB and Corporate to consider the
reputation of the Firm when deciding whether to offer a new product,
engage in a transaction or client relationship, enter a new jurisdiction,
initiate a business process or other matters. Increasingly, sustainability,
social responsibility and environmental impacts are important
considerations in assessing the Firm’s reputation risk, and are
considered as part of reputation risk governance.
The Firm’s reputation risk governance framework applies to each LOB
and Corporate. Each LOB RRO advises their business on potential
reputation risk issues and provides oversight of policy and standards
created to guide the identification and assessment of reputation risk.
LOB Reputation Risk Committees and forums review and assess
reputation risk for their respective businesses. Each function also
applies appropriate diligence to reputation risk arising from their day-
to-day activities. Reputation risk issues deemed significant are
escalated to the appropriate LOB Risk Committee and/or to the
Firmwide Risk Committee.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  101
Management’ s discussion and analysis
CREDIT  AND INVESTMENT  RISK MANAGEMENT
Credit and investment risk is the risk associated with the default or
change in credit profile of a client, counterparty or customer; or loss of
principal or a reduction in expected returns on investments, including
consumer credit risk, wholesale credit risk, and investment portfolio
risk.
Credit risk management
Credit risk is the risk associated with the default or change in credit
profile of a client, counterparty or customer. The Firm provides credit
to a variety of customers, ranging from large corporate and
institutional clients to individual consumers and small businesses. In
its consumer businesses, the Firm is exposed to credit risk primarily
through its home lending, credit card, auto, and business banking
businesses. In its wholesale businesses, the Firm is exposed to credit
risk through its underwriting, lending, market-making, and hedging
activities with and for clients and counterparties, as well as through its
operating services activities (such as cash management and clearing
activities), securities financing activities, investment securities
portfolio, and cash placed with banks.
Credit Risk Management is an independent risk management function
that monitors, measures and manages credit risk throughout the Firm
and defines credit risk policies and procedures. The credit risk function
reports to the Firm’s CRO. The Firm’s credit risk management
governance includes the following activities:
•Establishing a comprehensive credit risk policy framework
•Monitoring, measuring and managing credit risk across all portfolio
segments, including transaction and exposure approval
•Setting industry and geographic concentration limits, as appropriate,
and establishing underwriting guidelines
•Assigning and managing credit authorities in connection with the
approval of all credit exposure
•Managing criticized exposures and delinquent loans
•Estimating credit losses and ensuring appropriate credit risk-based
capital management Risk identification and measurement
The Credit Risk Management function monitors, measures, manages
and limits credit risk across the Firm’s businesses. To measure credit
risk, the Firm employs several methodologies for estimating the
likelihood of obligor or counterparty default. Methodologies for
measuring credit risk vary depending on several factors, including type
of asset (e.g., consumer versus wholesale), risk measurement
parameters (e.g., delinquency status and borrower’s credit score versus
wholesale risk-rating) and risk management and collection processes
(e.g., retail collection center versus centrally managed workout
groups). Credit risk measurement is based on the probability of default
of an obligor or counterparty, the loss severity given a default event
and the exposure at default.
Based on these factors and related market-based inputs, the Firm
estimates credit losses for its exposures. Probable credit losses inherent
in the consumer and wholesale held-for-investment loan portfolios are
reflected in the allowance for loan losses, and probable credit losses
inherent in lending-related commitments are reflected in the allowance
for lending-related commitments. These losses are estimated using
statistical analyses and other factors as described in Note 13. In
addition, potential and unexpected credit losses are reflected in the
allocation of credit risk capital and represent the potential volatility of
actual losses relative to the established allowances for loan losses and
lending-related commitments. The analyses for these losses include
stress testing that considers alternative economic scenarios as
described in the Stress testing section below. For further information,
refer to Critical Accounting Estimates used by the Firm on pages 141-
143.
The methodologies used to estimate credit losses depend on the
characteristics of the credit exposure, as described below.
Scored exposure
The scored portfolio is generally held in CCB and predominantly
includes residential real estate loans, credit card loans, and certain auto
and business banking loans. For the scored portfolio, credit loss
estimates are based on statistical analysis of credit losses over discrete
periods of time. The statistical analysis uses portfolio modeling, credit
scoring, and decision-support tools, which consider loan-level factors
such as delinquency status, credit scores, collateral values, and other
risk factors. Credit loss analyses also consider, as appropriate,
uncertainties and other factors, including those related to current
macroeconomic and political conditions, the quality of underwriting
standards, and other internal and external factors. The factors and
analysis are updated on a quarterly basis or more frequently as market
conditions dictate.
102  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Risk-rated exposure
Risk-rated portfolios are generally held in CIB, CB and AWM, but also
include certain business banking and auto dealer loans held in CCB
that are risk-rated because they have characteristics similar to
commercial loans. For the risk-rated portfolio, credit loss estimates are
based on estimates of the probability of default (“PD”) and loss
severity given a default. The probability of default is the likelihood
that a borrower will default on its obligation; the loss given default
(“LGD”) is the estimated loss on the loan that would be realized upon
default and takes into consideration collateral and structural support
for each credit facility. The estimation process includes assigning risk
ratings to each borrower and credit facility to differentiate risk within
the portfolio. These risk ratings are reviewed regularly by Credit Risk
Management and revised as needed to reflect the borrower’s current
financial position, risk profile and related collateral. The calculations
and assumptions are based on both internal and external historical
experience and management judgment and are reviewed regularly.
Stress testing
Stress testing is important in measuring and managing credit risk in the
Firm’s credit portfolio. The process assesses the potential impact of
alternative economic and business scenarios on estimated credit losses
for the Firm. Economic scenarios and the underlying parameters are
defined centrally, articulated in terms of macroeconomic factors and
applied across the businesses. The stress test results may indicate credit
migration, changes in delinquency trends and potential losses in the
credit portfolio. In addition to the periodic stress testing processes,
management also considers additional stresses outside these scenarios,
including industry and country- specific stress scenarios, as necessary.
The Firm uses stress testing to inform decisions on setting risk appetite
both at a Firm and LOB level, as well as to assess the impact of stress
on individual counterparties. Risk monitoring and management
The Firm has developed policies and practices that are designed to
preserve the independence and integrity of the approval and decision-
making process of extending credit to ensure credit risks are assessed
accurately, approved properly, monitored regularly and managed
actively at both the transaction and portfolio levels. The policy
framework establishes credit approval authorities, concentration limits,
risk-rating methodologies, portfolio review parameters and guidelines
for management of distressed exposures. In addition, certain models,
assumptions and inputs used in evaluating and monitoring credit risk
are independently validated by groups that are separate from the line of
businesses.
Consumer credit risk is monitored for delinquency and other trends,
including any concentrations at the portfolio level, as certain of these
trends can be modified through changes in underwriting policies and
portfolio guidelines. Consumer Risk Management evaluates
delinquency and other trends against business expectations, current
and forecasted economic conditions, and industry benchmarks.
Historical and forecasted economic performance and trends are
incorporated into the modeling of estimated consumer credit losses and
are part of the monitoring of the credit risk profile of the portfolio.
Wholesale credit risk is monitored regularly at an aggregate portfolio,
industry, and individual client and counterparty level with established
concentration limits that are reviewed and revised as deemed
appropriate by management, typically on an annual basis. Industry and
counterparty limits, as measured in terms of exposure and economic
risk appetite, are subject to stress-based loss constraints. In addition,
wrong-way risk — the risk that exposure to a counterparty is positively
correlated with the impact of a default by the same counterparty, which
could cause exposure to increase at the same time as the counterparty’s
capacity to meet its obligations is decreasing — is actively monitored
as this risk could result in greater exposure at default compared with a
transaction with another counterparty that does not have this risk.
Management of the Firm’s wholesale credit risk exposure is
accomplished through a number of means, including:
•Loan underwriting and credit approval process
•Loan syndications and participations
•Loan sales and securitizations
•Credit derivatives
•Master netting agreements
•Collateral and other risk-reduction techniques
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  103
Management’ s discussion and analysis
In addition to Credit Risk Management, an independent Credit
Review function is responsible for:
•Independently validating or changing the risk grades assigned to
exposures in the Firm’s wholesale and commercial-oriented retail
credit portfolios, and assessing the timeliness of risk grade changes
initiated by responsible business units; and
•Evaluating the effectiveness of business units’ credit management
processes, including the adequacy of credit analyses and risk
grading/LGD rationales, proper monitoring and management of
credit exposures, and compliance with applicable grading policies
and underwriting guidelines.
For further discussion of consumer and wholesale loans, refer to Note
12. Risk reporting
To enable monitoring of credit risk and effective decision-making,
aggregate credit exposure, credit quality forecasts, concentration levels
and risk profile changes are reported regularly to senior members of
Credit Risk Management. Detailed portfolio reporting of industry;
clients, counterparties and customers; product and geographic
concentrations occurs monthly, and the appropriateness of the
allowance for credit losses is reviewed by senior management at least
on a quarterly basis. Through the risk reporting and governance
structure, credit risk trends and limit exceptions are provided regularly
to, and discussed with, risk committees, senior management and the
Board of Directors as appropriate.
104  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
CREDIT  POR TFOLIO
Credit risk is the risk associated with the default or change
in credit profile of a client, counterparty or customer.
In the following tables, reported loans include loans retained (i.e.,
held-for-investment); loans held-for-sale; and certain loans accounted
for at fair value. The following tables do not include loans which the
Firm accounts for at fair value and classifies as trading assets. For
further information regarding these loans, refer to Notes 2 and 3. For
additional information on the Firm’s loans, lending-related
commitments and derivative receivables, including the Firm’s
accounting policies, refer to Notes 12, 27, and 5, respectively.
For further information regarding the credit risk inherent in the Firm’s
cash placed with banks, refer to Wholesale credit exposure – industry
exposures on pages 113–115 ; for information regarding the credit risk
inherent in the Firm’s investment securities portfolio, refer to Note 10;
and for information regarding credit risk inherent in the securities
financing portfolio, refer to Note 11.
For a further discussion of the consumer credit environment and
consumer loans, refer to Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 106–111
and Note 12. For a further discussion of the wholesale credit
environment and wholesale loans, refer to Wholesale Credit Portfolio
on pages 112–119 and Note 12. 
Total credit portfolio   
December 31,
(in millions)Credit exposure Nonperforming(d)(e)
2018
20172018
2017
Loans retained $ 969,415$ 924,838 $ 4,611$ 5,943
Loans held-for-sale 11,988 3,351 — —
Loans at fair value 3,151 2,508 220 —
Total loans – reported 984,554 930,697 4,831 5,943
Derivative receivables 54,213 56,523 60 130
Receivables from
customers and other(a) 30,217 26,272 — —
Total credit-related assets 1,068,984 1,013,492 4,891 6,073
Assets acquired in loan
satisfactions   
Real estate owned NA NA 269 311
Other NA NA 30 42
Total assets acquired in
loan satisfactions NA NA 299 353
Lending-related
commitments 1,039,258 991,482 469 731
Total credit portfolio $ 2,108,242$ 2,004,974 $ 5,659$ 7,157
Credit derivatives used in
credit portfolio
management activities(b)$ (12,682)$ (17,609)$ —$ —
Liquid securities and other
cash collateral held
against derivatives(c) (15,322) (16,108) NA NA
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)  2018
2017
Net charge-offs(f)  $ 4,856 $ 5,387
Average retained loans   
Loans  936,829 898,979
Loans – reported, excluding
  residential real estate PCI loans  909,386 865,887
Net charge-off rates(f)   
Loans  0.52% 0.60%
Loans – excluding PCI 0.53 0.62
(a)Receivables from customers and other primarily represents held-for-investment
margin loans to brokerage customers.
(b)Represents the net notional amount of protection purchased and sold through credit
derivatives used to manage both performing and nonperforming wholesale credit
exposures; these derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP.
For additional information, refer to Credit derivatives on page 119 and Note 5.
(c)Includes collateral related to derivative instruments where an appropriate legal
opinion has not been either sought or obtained.
(d)Excludes PCI loans. The Firm is recognizing interest income on each pool of PCI
loans as each of the pools is performing.
(e)At December 31, 2018 and 2017, nonperforming assets excluded mortgage loans 90
or more days past due and insured by U.S. government agencies of $2.6 billion and
$4.3 billion, respectively, and real estate owned (“REO”) insured by U.S.
government agencies of $75 million and $95 million, respectively. These amounts
have been excluded based upon the government guarantee. In addition, the Firm’s
policy is generally to exempt credit card loans from being placed on nonaccrual
status as permitted by regulatory guidance issued by the Federal Financial
Institutions Examination Council (“FFIEC”).
(f)For the year ended December 31, 2017, excluding net charge-offs of $467 million
related to the student loan portfolio transfer, the net charge-off rate for loans would
have been 0.55% and for loans - excluding PCI would have been 0.57%.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  105
Management’ s discussion and analysis
CONSUMER CREDIT  POR TFOLIO
The Firm’s retained consumer portfolio consists primarily of
residential real estate loans, credit card loans, auto loans, and business
banking loans, as well as associated lending-related commitments. The
Firm’s focus is on serving primarily the prime segment of the
consumer credit market. Originated mortgage loans are retained in the
mortgage portfolio, securitized or sold to U.S. government agencies
and U.S. government-sponsored enterprises; other types of consumer
loans are typically retained on the balance sheet. The credit
performance of the consumer portfolio continues to benefit from
discipline in credit underwriting as well as improvement in the
economy driven by low unemployment and increasing home prices.
The total amount of residential real estate loans delinquent 30+ days,
excluding government guaranteed and purchased credit-impaired
loans, decreased from December 31, 2017 due to improved credit
performance and the impact of loans that were delinquent in 2017 due
to hurricanes. The Credit Card 30+ day delinquency rate and the net
charge-off rate increased from the prior year, in line with expectations.
For further information on consumer loans, refer to Note 12. For
further information on lending-related commitments, refer to Note 27.
106  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
The following table presents consumer credit-related information with respect to the credit portfolio held by CCB, prime mortgage and home equity
loans held by AWM, and prime mortgage loans held by Corporate. For further information about the Firm’s nonaccrual and charge-off accounting
policies, refer to Note 12.
Consumer credit portfolio
As of or for the year ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)Credit exposure Nonaccrual loans(i)(j)Net charge-offs/(recoveries)
(d)(k)Net charge-off/(recovery)
rate(d)(k)(l)
2018  2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017
Consumer, excluding credit card    
Loans, excluding PCI loans and loans held-for-sale    
Residential mortgage $ 231,078 $ 216,496 $ 1,765$ 2,175 $ (291)$ (10) (0.13)% —%
Home equity 28,340 33,450 1,323 1,610 (5) 69 (0.02) 0.19
Auto(a)(b) 63,573 66,242 128 141 243 331 0.38 0.51
Consumer & Business Banking(b)(c) 26,612 25,789 245 283 236 257 0.90 1.03
Student(d) — — — — — 498 — NM
Total loans, excluding PCI loans and loans held-for-sale 349,603 341,977 3,461 4,209 183 1,145 0.05 0.34
Loans – PCI    
Home equity 8,963 10,799 NA NA NA NA NA NA
Prime mortgage 4,690 6,479 NA NA NA NA NA NA
Subprime mortgage 1,945 2,609 NA NA NA NA NA NA
Option ARMs(e) 8,436 10,689 NA NA NA NA NA NA
Total loans – PCI 24,034 30,576 NA NA NA NA NA NA
Total loans – retained 373,637 372,553 3,461 4,209 183 1,145 0.05 0.31
Loans held-for-sale 95 128 — — — — — —
Total consumer, excluding credit card loans 373,732 372,681 3,461 4,209 183 1,145 0.05 0.31
Lending-related commitments(f) 46,066 48,553  
Receivables from customers(g) 154 133  
Total consumer exposure, excluding credit card 419,952 421,367  
Credit Card    
Loans retained(h) 156,616 149,387 — — 4,518 4,123 3.10 2.95
Loans held-for-sale 16 124 — — — — — —
Total credit card loans 156,632 149,511 — — 4,518 4,123 3.10 2.95
Lending-related commitments(f) 605,379 572,831  
Total credit card exposure 762,011 722,342  
Total consumer credit portfolio $ 1,181,963 $ 1,143,709 $ 3,461$ 4,209 $ 4,701$ 5,268 0.90 % 1.04%
Memo: Total consumer credit portfolio, excluding PCI $ 1,157,929 $ 1,113,133 $ 3,461$ 4,209 $ 4,701$ 5,268 0.95 % 1.11%
(a)At December 31, 2018 and 2017, excluded operating lease assets of $20.5 billion and $17.1 billion, respectively. These operating lease assets are included in other assets on the
Firm’s Consolidated balance sheets. The risk of loss on these assets relates to the residual value of the leased vehicles, which is managed through projection of the lease residual
value at lease origination, periodic review of residual values, and through arrangements with certain auto manufacturers that mitigates this risk.
(b)Includes certain business banking and auto dealer risk-rated loans that apply the wholesale methodology for determining the allowance for loan losses; these loans are managed by
CCB, and therefore, for consistency in presentation, are included within the consumer portfolio.
(c)Predominantly includes Business Banking loans.
(d)For the year ended December 31, 2017, excluding net charge-offs of $467 million related to the student loan portfolio sale, the net charge-off rate for Total consumer, excluding
credit card and PCI loans and loans held-for-sale would have been 0.20%; Total consumer - retained excluding credit card loans would have been 0.18%; Total consumer credit
portfolio would have been 0.95%; and Total consumer credit portfolio, excluding PCI loans would have been 1.01%.
(e)At December 31, 2018 and 2017, approximately 69% and 68%, respectively, of the PCI option adjustable rate mortgages (“ARMs”) portfolio has been modified into fixed-rate, fully
amortizing loans.
(f)Credit card and home equity lending-related commitments represent the total available lines of credit for these products. The Firm has not experienced, and does not anticipate, that
all available lines of credit would be used at the same time. For credit card commitments, and if certain conditions are met, home equity commitments, the Firm can reduce or cancel
these lines of credit by providing the borrower notice or, in some cases as permitted by law, without notice. For further information, refer to Note 27.
(g)Receivables from customers represent held-for-investment margin loans to brokerage customers that are collateralized through assets maintained in the clients’ brokerage accounts.
These receivables are reported within accrued interest and accounts receivable on the Firm’s Consolidated balance sheets.
(h)Includes billed interest and fees net of an allowance for uncollectible interest and fees.
(i)At December 31, 2018 and 2017, nonaccrual loans excluded mortgage loans 90 or more days past due and insured by U.S. government agencies of $2.6 billion and $4.3 billion,
respectively. These amounts have been excluded from nonaccrual loans based upon the government guarantee. In addition, the Firm’s policy is generally to exempt credit card loans
from being placed on nonaccrual status, as permitted by regulatory guidance issued by the FFIEC.
(j)Excludes PCI loans. The Firm is recognizing interest income on each pool of PCI loans as each of the pools is performing.
(k)Net charge-offs/(recoveries) and net charge-off/(recovery) rates excluded write-offs in the PCI portfolio of $187 million and $86 million for the years ended December 31, 2018 and
2017, respectively. These write-offs decreased the allowance for loan losses for PCI loans. Refer to Allowance for Credit Losses on pages 120–122 for further information.
(l)Average consumer loans held-for-sale were $387 million and $1.5 billion for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. These amounts were excluded when
calculating net charge-off/(recovery) rates.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  107
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Consumer , excluding cr edit card
Portfolio analysis
Consumer loan balances increased from December 31, 2017
predominantly due to originations of high-quality prime mortgage
loans that have been retained on the balance sheet, largely offset by
paydowns and the charge-off or liquidation of delinquent loans.
PCI loans are excluded from the following discussions of individual
loan products and are addressed separately below. For further
information about the Firm’s consumer portfolio, including
information about delinquencies, loan modifications and other credit
quality indicators, refer to
Note 12.
Residential mortgage: The residential mortgage portfolio, including
loans held-for-sale, predominantly consists of high-quality prime
mortgage loans with approximately 1% consisting of subprime
mortgage loans, which continue to run off. The residential mortgage
portfolio increased from December 31, 2017 driven by the retention of
originated high-quality prime mortgage loans, which exceeded
paydowns and mortgage loan sales. Residential mortgage 30+ day
delinquencies decreased from December 31, 2017. Nonaccrual loans
decreased from December 31, 2017 due to lower delinquencies. Net
recoveries for the year ended December 31, 2018 improved when
compared with the prior year, reflecting loan sales and continued
improvement in home prices and delinquencies.
At December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Firm’s residential mortgage
portfolio included $21.6 billion and $20.2 billion, respectively, of
interest-only loans. These loans have an interest-only payment period
generally followed by an adjustable-rate or fixed-rate fully amortizing
payment period to maturity and are typically originated as higher-
balance loans to higher-income borrowers. Performance of this
portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2018 was in line with the
performance of the broader residential mortgage portfolio for the same
period. The Firm continues to monitor the risks associated with these
loans. The following table provides a summary of the Firm’s
residential mortgage portfolio insured and/or guaranteed
by U.S. government agencies, including loans held-for-sale.
The Firm monitors its exposure to certain potential unrecoverable
claim payments related to government insured loans and considers this
exposure in estimating the allowance for loan losses.
(in millions) December 31, 2018December 31,
2017
Current $ 2,884$ 2,401
30-89 days past due 1,528 1,958
90 or more days past due 2,600 4,264
Total government guaranteed loans $ 7,012$ 8,623
Home equity: The home equity portfolio declined from December 31,
2017 primarily reflecting loan paydowns. The amount of 30+ day
delinquencies decreased from December 31, 2017. Nonaccrual loans
decreased from December 31, 2017 due to lower delinquencies. There
was a net recovery for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to
a net charge-off for the prior year, as a result of continued
improvement in home prices and lower delinquencies.
At December 31, 2018, approximately 90% of the Firm’s home equity
portfolio consists of home equity lines of credit (“HELOCs”) and the
remainder consisted of home equity loans (“HELOANs”). HELOANs
are generally fixed-rate, closed-end, amortizing loans, with terms
ranging from 3–30 years. In general, HELOCs originated by the Firm
are revolving loans for a 10-year period, after which time the HELOC
recasts into a loan with a 20-year amortization period.
The carrying value of HELOCs outstanding was $26 billion at
December 31, 2018. This amount included $12 billion of HELOCs that
have recast from interest-only to fully amortizing payments or have
been modified and $4 billion of interest-only balloon HELOCs, which
primarily mature after 2030. The Firm manages the risk of HELOCs
during their revolving period by closing or reducing the undrawn line
to the extent permitted by law when borrowers are exhibiting a
material deterioration in their credit risk profile.
108  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
The Firm monitors risks associated with junior lien loans where the
borrower has a senior lien loan that is either delinquent or has been
modified. These loans are considered “high-risk seconds” and are
classified as nonaccrual as they are considered to pose a higher risk of
default than other junior lien loans. At December 31, 2018, the Firm
estimated that the carrying value of its home equity portfolio contained
approximately $550 million of current junior lien loans that were
considered high-risk seconds, compared with approximately $725
million at December 31, 2017.
Auto: The auto loan portfolio, which predominantly consists of prime-
quality loans, declined when compared with December 31, 2017, as
paydowns and the charge-off or liquidation of delinquent loans were
predominantly offset by new originations. Nonaccrual loans decreased
from December 31, 2017. Net charge-offs for the year ended
December 31, 2018 declined when compared with the prior year
primarily as a result of an incremental adjustment recorded in 2017 in
accordance with regulatory guidance regarding the timing of loss
recognition for certain loans in bankruptcy and loans where assets
were acquired in loan satisfactions. Consumer & Business banking: Consumer & Business Banking
loans increased when compared with December 31, 2017 due to loan
originations, predominantly offset by paydowns and charge-offs of
delinquent loans. Nonaccrual loans and net charge-offs decreased
when compared with the prior year.
Purchased credit-impaired loans: PCI loans represent certain loans
that were acquired and deemed to be credit-impaired on the acquisition
date. PCI loans decreased from December 31, 2017 due to portfolio
run off and loan sales. As of December 31, 2018, approximately 10%
of the option ARM PCI loans were delinquent and approximately 69%
of the portfolio had been modified into fixed-rate, fully amortizing
loans. The borrowers for substantially all of the remaining option
ARM loans are making amortizing payments, although such payments
are not necessarily fully amortizing. This latter group of loans is
subject to the risk of payment shock due to future payment recast.
Default rates generally increase on option ARM loans when payment
recast results in a payment increase. The expected increase in default
rates is considered in the Firm’s quarterly impairment assessment.
The following table provides a summary of lifetime principal loss estimates included in either the nonaccretable difference or the allowance for loan
losses.
Summary of PCI loans lifetime principal loss estimates
 Lifetime loss estimates (a) Life-to-date liquidation losses (b)
December 31, (in billions) 2018  2017 2018 2017
Home equity $ 14.1  $ 14.2 $ 13.0 $ 12.9
Prime mortgage 4.1 4.0 3.9 3.8
Subprime mortgage 3.3 3.3 3.2 3.1
Option ARMs 10.3  10.0 9.9 9.7
Total $ 31.8  $ 31.5 $ 30.0 $ 29.5
(a)Includes the original nonaccretable difference established in purchase accounting of $30.5 billion for principal losses plus additional principal losses recognized subsequent to
acquisition through the provision and allowance for loan losses. The remaining nonaccretable difference for principal losses was $512 million and $842 million at December 31,
2018 and 2017, respectively.
(b)Represents both realization of loss upon loan resolution and any principal forgiven upon modification.
For further information on the Firm’s PCI loans, including write-offs, refer to Note 12.
Geographic composition of residential real estate loans
At December 31, 2018, $160.3 billion, or 63% of the total retained
residential real estate loan portfolio, excluding mortgage loans insured
by U.S. government agencies and PCI loans, were concentrated in
California, New York, Illinois, Texas and Florida, compared with
$152.8 billion, or 63%, at December 31, 2017. For additional
information on the geographic composition of the Firm’s residential
real estate loans, refer to Note 12.
Current estimated loan-to-values of residential real estate loans
Average current estimated loan-to-value (“LTV”) ratios have declined
consistent with improvements in home prices, customer pay downs,
and charge-offs or liquidations of higher LTV loans. For further
information on current estimated LTVs of residential real estate loans,
refer to Note 12. Loan modification activities for residential real estate loans
The performance of modified loans generally differs by product type
due to differences in both the credit quality and the types of
modifications provided. Performance metrics for modifications to the
residential real estate portfolio, excluding PCI loans, that have been
seasoned more than six months show weighted-average redefault rates
of 22% for residential mortgages and 20% for home equity.
Performance metrics for modifications to the PCI residential real estate
portfolio that have been seasoned more than six months show weighted
average redefault rates of 19% for home equity, 18% for prime
mortgages, 16% for option ARMs and 32% for subprime mortgages.
The cumulative redefault rates reflect the performance of
modifications completed from October 1, 2009 through December 31,
2018.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  109
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Certain modified loans have interest rate reset provisions (“step-rate
modifications”) where the interest rates on these loans generally began
to increase commencing in 2014 by 1% per year, and will continue to
do so until the rate reaches a specified cap. The cap on these loans is
typically at a prevailing market interest rate for a fixed-rate mortgage
loan as of the modification date. At December 31, 2018, the carrying
value of non-PCI loans and the unpaid principal balance of PCI loans
modified in step-rate modifications, which have not yet met their
specified caps, were $2 billion and $3 billion, respectively. The Firm
continues to monitor this risk exposure and the impact of these
potential interest rate increases is considered in the Firm’s allowance
for loan losses.
The following table presents information as of December 31, 2018 and
2017, relating to modified retained residential real estate loans for
which concessions have been granted to borrowers experiencing
financial difficulty. For further information on modifications for the
years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, refer to Note 12.
Modified residential real estate loans
 2018 2017
December 31,
(in millions)Retained
loansNonaccrual
retained
loans(d)Retained
loansNonaccrual
retained
 loans(d)
Modified residential real
estate loans, excluding
PCI loans(a)(b)   
Residential mortgage $ 4,565$ 1,459$ 5,620$ 1,743
Home equity 2,012 955 2,118 1,032
Total modified residential
real estate loans,
excluding PCI loans $ 6,577$ 2,414$ 7,738$ 2,775
Modified PCI loans(c)   
Home equity $ 2,086 NA$ 2,277 NA
Prime mortgage 3,179 NA 4,490 NA
Subprime mortgage 2,041 NA 2,678 NA
Option ARMs 6,410 NA 8,276 NA
Total modified PCI loans$ 13,716 NA$ 17,721 NA
(a)Amounts represent the carrying value of modified residential real estate loans.
(b)At December 31, 2018 and 2017, $4.1 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively, of loans
modified subsequent to repurchase from Ginnie Mae in accordance with the
standards of the appropriate government agency (i.e., Federal Housing
Administration (“FHA”), U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (“VA”), Rural
Housing Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (“RHS”)) are not included in
the table above. When such loans perform subsequent to modification in accordance
with Ginnie Mae guidelines, they are generally sold back into Ginnie Mae loan
pools. Modified loans that do not re-perform become subject to foreclosure. For
additional information about sales of loans in securitization transactions with Ginnie
Mae, refer to Note 14.
(c)Amounts represent the unpaid principal balance of modified PCI loans.
(d)As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, nonaccrual loans included $2.0 billion and $2.2
billion, respectively, of troubled debt restructurings (“TDRs”) for which the
borrowers were less than 90 days past due. For additional information about loans
modified in a TDR that are on nonaccrual status, refer to Note 12. Nonperforming assets
The following table presents information as of December 31, 2018 and
2017, about consumer, excluding credit card, nonperforming assets.
Nonperforming assets(a)  
December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017
Nonaccrual loans(b)  
Residential real estate $ 3,088 $ 3,785
Other consumer 373 424
Total nonaccrual loans 3,461 4,209
Assets acquired in loan satisfactions  
Real estate owned 210 225
Other 30 40
Total assets acquired in loan satisfactions 240 265
Total nonperforming assets $ 3,701 $ 4,474
(a)At December 31, 2018 and 2017, nonperforming assets excluded mortgage loans 90
or more days past due and insured by U.S. government agencies of $2.6 billion and
$4.3 billion, respectively, and real estate owned (“REO”) insured by U.S.
government agencies of $75 million and $95 million, respectively. These amounts
have been excluded based upon the government guarantee.
(b)Excludes PCI loans which are accounted for on a pool basis. Since each pool is
accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate
expectation of cash flows, the past-due status of the pools, or that of individual loans
within the pools, is not meaningful. The Firm is recognizing interest income on each
pool of loans as each of the pools is performing.
Nonaccrual loans in the residential real estate portfolio at
December 31, 2018 decreased to $3.1 billion from $3.8 billion at
December 31, 2017, of which 24% and 26% were greater than 150
days past due, respectively. In the aggregate, the unpaid principal
balance of residential real estate loans greater than 150 days past due
was charged down by approximately 32% and 40% to the estimated
net realizable value of the collateral at December 31, 2018 and 2017,
respectively.
Nonaccrual loans: The following table presents changes in the
consumer, excluding credit card, nonaccrual loans for the years ended
December 31, 2018 and 2017.
Nonaccrual loan activity  
Year ended December 31,   
(in millions) 2018 2017
Beginning balance $ 4,209$ 4,820
Additions 2,799 3,525
Reductions:   
Principal payments and other(a) 1,407 1,577
Charge-offs 468 699
Returned to performing status 1,399 1,509
Foreclosures and other liquidations 273 351
Total reductions 3,547 4,136
Net changes (748) (611)
Ending balance $ 3,461$ 4,209
(a)Other reductions includes loan sales.
Active and suspended foreclosure: For information on loans that
were in the process of active or suspended foreclosure, refer to Note
12.
110  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Credit card
Total credit card loans increased from December 31, 2017 due to new
account growth and higher sales volume. The December 31, 2018 30+
day delinquency rate increased to 1.83% from 1.80% at December 31,
2017, but the December 31, 2018 90+ day delinquency rate of 0.92%
was flat compared to December 31, 2017. Net charge-offs increased
for the year ended December 31, 2018 when compared with the prior
year, primarily due to the seasoning of more recent vintages with
higher loss rates, as anticipated given underwriting standards at the
time of origination.
Consistent with the Firm’s policy, all credit card loans typically remain
on accrual status until charged off. However, the Firm establishes an
allowance, which is offset against loans and reduces interest income,
for the estimated uncollectible portion of accrued and billed interest
and fee income.
Geographic and FICO composition of credit card loans
At December 31, 2018, $71.2 billion, or 45% of the total retained
credit card loan portfolio, were concentrated in California, Texas, New
York, Florida and Illinois, compared with $67.2 billion, or 45%, at
December 31, 2017. For additional information on the geographic and
FICO composition of the Firm’s credit card loans, refer to Note 12.
Modifications of credit card loans
At December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Firm had $1.3 billion and $1.2
billion, respectively, of credit card loans outstanding that have been
modified in TDRs. For additional information about loan modification
programs to borrowers, refer to Note 12.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  111
Management’ s discussion and analysis
WHOLESALE CREDIT  POR TFOLIO
In its wholesale businesses, the Firm is exposed to credit risk primarily
through its underwriting, lending, market-making, and hedging
activities with and for clients and counterparties, as well as through
various operating services (such as cash management and clearing
activities), securities financing activities and cash placed with banks. A
portion of the loans originated or acquired by the Firm’s wholesale
businesses is generally retained on the balance sheet. The Firm
distributes a significant percentage of the loans that it originates into
the market as part of its syndicated loan business and to manage
portfolio concentrations and credit risk.
The credit quality of the wholesale portfolio was stable for the year
ended December 31, 2018, characterized by low levels of criticized
exposure, nonaccrual loans and charge-offs. Refer to the industry
discussion on pages 113–115 for further information. Retained loans
increased across all wholesale lines of business, primarily driven by
commercial and industrial and financial institution clients in CIB, and
Wealth Management clients globally in AWM. The wholesale portfolio
is actively managed, in part by conducting ongoing, in-depth reviews
of client credit quality and transaction structure inclusive of collateral
where applicable, and of industry, product and client concentrations. In the following tables, the Firm’s wholesale credit portfolio includes
exposure held in CIB, CB, AWM and Corporate, and excludes all
exposure managed by CCB.
Wholesale credit portfolio
December 31,
(in millions)Credit exposure  Nonperforming(c)
2018 2017  2018 2017
Loans retained $ 439,162$ 402,898 $ 1,150$ 1,734
Loans held-for-sale 11,877 3,099 — —
Loans at fair value 3,151 2,508 220 —
Loans – reported 454,190 408,505 1,370 1,734
Derivative receivables 54,213 56,523 60 130
Receivables from customers
and other(a) 30,063 26,139 — —
Total wholesale credit-
related assets 538,466 491,167 1,430 1,864
Lending-related commitments 387,813 370,098 469 731
Total wholesale credit
exposure $ 926,279$ 861,265 $ 1,899$ 2,595
Credit derivatives used
in credit portfolio
management activities(b) $ (12,682)$ (17,609) $ —$ —
Liquid securities and other
cash collateral held against
derivatives (15,322) (16,108) NA NA
(a)Receivables from customers and other include $30.1 billion and $26.0 billion of
held-for-investment margin loans at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, to
prime brokerage customers in CIB and AWM; these are classified in accrued interest
and accounts receivable on the Consolidated balance sheets.
(b)Represents the net notional amount of protection purchased and sold through credit
derivatives used to manage both performing and nonperforming wholesale credit
exposures; these derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP.
For additional information, refer to Credit derivatives on page 119, and Note 5.
(c)Excludes assets acquired in loan satisfactions.
112  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
The following tables present the maturity and ratings profiles of the wholesale credit portfolio as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. The ratings scale
is based on the Firm’s internal risk ratings, which generally correspond to the ratings assigned by S&P and Moody’s. For additional information on
wholesale loan portfolio risk ratings, refer to Note 12.
Wholesale credit exposure – maturity and ratings profile       
 Maturity profile(d)  Ratings profile   
 
Due in 1 year
or lessDue after
1 year through
5 yearsDue after 5
years Total Investment-
grade  Noninvestment-
grade  
TotalTotal %
of IGDecember 31, 2018
(in millions, except ratios)  AAA/Aaa to
BBB-/Baa3 BB+/Ba1 & below 
Loans retained $ 138,458$ 196,974$ 103,730$ 439,162 $ 339,729 $ 99,433 $ 439,162 77%
Derivative receivables 54,213    54,213 
Less: Liquid securities and other cash collateral held against
derivatives (15,322)    (15,322) 
Total derivative receivables, net of all collateral 11,038 9,169 18,684 38,891 31,794 7,097 38,891 82
Lending-related commitments 79,400 294,855 13,558 387,813 288,724 99,089 387,813 74
Subtotal 228,896 500,998 135,972 865,866 660,247 205,619 865,866 76
Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value(a) 15,028    15,028 
Receivables from customers and other 30,063    30,063 
Total exposure – net of liquid securities and other cash
collateral held against derivatives $ 910,957    $ 910,957 
Credit derivatives used in credit portfolio management
activities(b)(c) $ (447)$ (9,318)$ (2,917)$ (12,682) $ (11,213) $ (1,469) $ (12,682) 88%
 Maturity profile(d)  Ratings profile
 
Due in 1 year
or lessDue after
1 year through
5 yearsDue after 5
years Total Investment-
grade  Noninvestment-
grade
TotalTotal %
of IGDecember 31, 2017
(in millions, except ratios)  AAA/Aaa to
BBB-/Baa3 BB+/Ba1 & below
Loans retained $ 121,643$ 177,033$ 104,222$ 402,898 $ 311,681 $ 91,217 $ 402,898 77%
Derivative receivables   56,523    56,523
Less: Liquid securities and other cash collateral held against
derivatives   (16,108)    (16,108)
Total derivative receivables, net of all collateral 9,882 10,463 20,070 40,415 32,373 8,042 40,415 80
Lending-related commitments 80,273 275,317 14,508 370,098 274,127 95,971 370,098 74
Subtotal 211,798 462,813 138,800 813,411 618,181 195,230 813,411 76
Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value(a)   5,607    5,607
Receivables from customers and other   26,139    26,139
Total exposure – net of liquid securities and other cash
collateral held against derivatives   $ 845,157    $ 845,157
Credit derivatives used in credit portfolio management
activities (b)(c) $ (1,807)$ (11,011)$ (4,791)$ (17,609) $ (14,984) $ (2,625) $ (17,609) 85%
(a)Represents loans held-for-sale, primarily related to syndicated loans and loans transferred from the retained portfolio, and loans at fair value.
(b)These derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP.
(c)The notional amounts are presented on a net basis by underlying reference entity and the ratings profile shown is based on the ratings of the reference entity on which protection has
been purchased. Predominantly all of the credit derivatives entered into by the Firm where it has purchased protection used in credit portfolio management activities are executed
with investment-grade counterparties.
(d)The maturity profile of retained loans, lending-related commitments and derivative receivables is based on remaining contractual maturity. Derivative contracts that are in a
receivable position at December 31, 2018, may become payable prior to maturity based on their cash flow profile or changes in market conditions.
Wholesale credit exposure – industry exposures
The Firm focuses on the management and diversification of its
industry exposures, and pays particular attention to industries with
actual or potential credit concerns. Exposures deemed criticized align
with the U.S. banking regulators’ definition of criticized exposures,
which consist of the special mention, substandard and doubtful 
categories. The total criticized component of the portfolio, excluding
loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value, was $12.1 billion at
December 31, 2018, compared with $15.6 billion at December 31,
2017. The decrease was driven by Oil & Gas, including credit quality
improvements in the portfolio, and a loan sale in the first quarter of
2018.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  113
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Below are summaries of the Firm’s exposures as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. The industry of risk category is generally based on the client or
counterparty’s primary business activity. For additional information on industry concentrations, refer to Note 4.
As a result of continued growth and the relative size of the portfolio, exposure to “Individuals,” which was previously disclosed in “All Other,” is
now separately disclosed in the table below as “Individuals and Individual Entities.” This category predominantly consists of Wealth Management
clients within AWM and includes exposure to personal investment companies and personal and testamentary trusts. Predominantly all of this
exposure is secured, largely by cash and marketable securities. In the table below, prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the
current period presentation.
Wholesale credit exposure – industries(a)    
  Selected metrics
      
30 days or
more past due
and accruing
loansNet charge-offs/
(recoveries)Credit
derivative
hedges(g)Liquid securities
and other cash
collateral held
against derivative
receivables   Noninvestment-grade
 
Credit
exposure(f)Investment-
grade NoncriticizedCriticized
performingCriticized
nonperformingAs of or for the year ended
December 31, 2018
(in millions)
Real Estate $ 143,316$ 117,988$ 24,174$ 1,019$ 135$ 70$ (20)$ (2)$ (1)
Individuals and Individual Entities(b) 97,077 86,581 10,164 174 158 703 12 — (915)
Consumer & Retail 94,815 60,678 31,901 2,033 203 43 55 (248) (14)
Technology, Media &
Telecommunications 72,646 46,334 24,081 2,170 61 8 12 (1,011) (12)
Industrials 58,528 38,487 18,594 1,311 136 171 20 (207) (29)
Banks & Finance Cos 49,920 34,120 15,496 299 5 11 — (575) (2,290)
Healthcare 48,142 36,687 10,625 761 69 23 (5) (150) (133)
Asset Managers 42,807 36,722 6,067 4 14 10 — — (5,829)
Oil & Gas 42,600 23,356 17,451 1,158 635 6 36 (248) —
Utilities 28,172 23,558 4,326 138 150 — 38 (142) (60)
State & Municipal Govt(c) 27,351 26,746 603 2 — 18 (1) — (42)
Central Govt 18,456 18,251 124 81 — 4 — (7,994) (2,130)
Automotive 17,339 9,637 7,310 392 — 1 — (125) —
Chemicals & Plastics 16,035 11,490 4,427 118 — 4 — — —
Transportation 15,660 10,508 4,699 393 60 21 6 (31) (112)
Metals & Mining 15,359 8,188 6,767 385 19 1 — (174) (22)
Insurance 12,639 9,777 2,830 — 32 — — (36) (2,080)
Financial Markets Infrastructure 7,484 6,746 738 — — — — — (26)
Securities Firms 4,558 3,099 1,459 — — — — (158) (823)
All other(d) 68,284 64,664 3,606 12 2 2 2 (1,581) (804)
Subtotal $ 881,188$ 673,617$ 195,442$ 10,450$ 1,679$ 1,096$ 155$(12,682)$ (15,322)
Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value 15,028      
Receivables from customers and other 30,063      
Total(e) $ 926,279      
114  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
        
      Selected metrics
      
30 days or
more past due
and accruing
loansNet charge-offs/
(recoveries)Credit
derivative
hedges(g)Liquid securities
and other cash
collateral held
against derivative
receivables   Noninvestment-grade
 
Credit
exposure(f)Investment-
grade NoncriticizedCriticized
performingCriticized
nonperformingAs of or for the year ended
December 31, 2017
(in millions)
Real Estate $ 139,409$ 115,401$ 23,012$ 859$ 137$ 254$ (4)$ — $ (2)
Individuals and Individual Entities(b) 87,371 77,029 10,024 80 238 899 10 — (762)
Consumer & Retail 87,679 55,737 29,619 1,791 532 30 34 (275) (9)
Technology, Media & Telecommunications 59,274 36,510 20,453 2,258 53 14 (12) (910) (19)
Industrials 55,272 37,198 16,770 1,159 145 150 (1) (196) (21)
Banks & Finance Cos 49,037 34,654 13,767 612 4 1 6 (1,216) (3,174)
Healthcare 55,997 42,643 12,731 585 38 82 (1) — (207)
Asset Managers 32,531 28,029 4,484 4 14 27 — — (5,290)
Oil & Gas 41,317 21,430 14,854 4,046 987 22 71 (747) (1)
Utilities 29,317 24,486 4,383 227 221 — 11 (160) (56)
State & Municipal Govt(c) 28,633 27,977 656 — — 12 5 (130) (524)
Central Govt 19,182 18,741 376 65 — 4 — (10,095) (2,520)
Automotive 14,820 9,321 5,278 221 — 10 1 (284) —
Chemicals & Plastics 15,945 11,107 4,764 74 — 4 — — —
Transportation 15,797 9,870 5,302 527 98 9 14 (32) (131)
Metals & Mining 14,171 6,989 6,822 321 39 3 (13) (316) (1)
Insurance 14,089 11,028 2,981 — 80 1 — (157) (2,195)
Financial Markets Infrastructure 5,036 4,775 261 — — — — — (23)
Securities Firms 4,113 2,559 1,553 1 — — — (274) (335)
All other(d) 60,529 57,081 3,259 180 9 2 (2) (2,817) (838)
Subtotal $ 829,519$ 632,565$ 181,349$ 13,010$ 2,595$ 1,524$ 119$(17,609)$ (16,108)
Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value 5,607      
Receivables from customers and other 26,139      
Total(e) $ 861,265      
(a)The industry rankings presented in the table as of December 31, 2017, are based on the industry rankings of the corresponding exposures at December 31, 2018, not actual rankings
of such exposures at December 31, 2017.
(b)Individuals and Individual Entities predominantly consists of Wealth Management clients within AWM and includes exposure to personal investment companies and personal and
testamentary trusts.
(c)In addition to the credit risk exposure to states and municipal governments (both U.S. and non-U.S.) at December 31, 2018 and 2017, noted above, the Firm held: $7.8 billion and
$9.8 billion, respectively, of trading securities; $37.7 billion and $32.3 billion, respectively, of AFS securities; and $4.8 billion and $14.4 billion, respectively, of held-to-maturity
(“HTM”) securities, issued by U.S. state and municipal governments. For further information, refer to Note 2 and Note 10.
(d)All other includes: SPEs and Private education and civic organizations, representing approximately 92% and 8%, respectively, at December 31, 2018 and 90% and 10%, respectively,
at December 31, 2017.
(e)Excludes cash placed with banks of $268.1 billion and $421.0 billion, at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, which is predominantly placed with various central banks,
primarily Federal Reserve Banks.
(f)Credit exposure is net of risk participations and excludes the benefit of credit derivatives used in credit portfolio management activities held against derivative receivables or loans
and liquid securities and other cash collateral held against derivative receivables.
(g)Represents the net notional amounts of protection purchased and sold through credit derivatives used to manage the credit exposures; these derivatives do not qualify for hedge
accounting under U.S. GAAP. The All other category includes purchased credit protection on certain credit indices.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  115
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Real Estate
Presented below is additional information on the Real Estate industry to which the Firm has significant exposure.
Real Estate exposure increased $3.9 billion to $143.3 billion during the year ended December 31, 2018, while the investment-grade percentage of
the portfolio remained relatively flat at 82%. For further information on Real Estate loans, refer to Note 12.
 December 31, 2018
(in millions, except ratios)Loans and Lending-
related
Commitments Derivative
Receivables Credit exposure % Investment-
grade % Drawn(c)
Multifamily(a) $ 85,683 $ 33 $ 85,716 89% 92%
Other 57,469 131 57,600 72 63
Total Real Estate Exposure(b) 143,152 164 143,316 82 81
        
 December 31, 2017
(in millions, except ratios)Loans and Lending-
related
Commitments Derivative
Receivables Credit exposure % Investment-
grade % Drawn(c)
Multifamily(a) $ 84,635 $ 34 $ 84,669 89% 92%
Other 54,620 120 54,740 74 66
Total Real Estate Exposure(b) 139,255 154 139,409 83 82
(a)Multifamily exposure is largely in California.
(b)Real Estate exposure is predominantly secured; unsecured exposure is predominantly investment-grade.
(c)Represents drawn exposure as a percentage of credit exposure.
Loans
In the normal course of its wholesale business, the Firm provides loans
to a variety of clients, ranging from large corporate and institutional
clients to high-net-worth individuals. For a further discussion on loans,
including information on credit quality indicators and sales of loans,
refer to Note 12.
The following table presents the change in the nonaccrual loan
portfolio for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.
Wholesale nonaccrual loan activity  
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017
Beginning balance $ 1,734$ 2,063
Additions 1,188 1,482
Reductions:   
Paydowns and other 692 1,137
Gross charge-offs 299 200
Returned to performing status 234 189
Sales 327 285
Total reductions 1,552 1,811
Net changes (364) (329)
Ending balance $ 1,370$ 1,734 The following table presents net charge-offs/recoveries, which are
defined as gross charge-offs less recoveries, for the years ended
December 31, 2018 and 2017. The amounts in the table below do not
include gains or losses from sales of nonaccrual loans.
Wholesale net charge-offs/(recoveries)
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios) 2018 2017
Loans – reported  
Average loans retained $ 416,828 $ 392,263
Gross charge-offs 313 212
Gross recoveries (158) (93)
Net charge-offs 155 119
Net charge-off rate 0.04% 0.03%
116  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Lending-related commitments
The Firm uses lending-related financial instruments, such as
commitments (including revolving credit facilities) and guarantees, to
address the financing needs of its clients. The contractual amounts of
these financial instruments represent the maximum possible credit risk
should the clients draw down on these commitments or the Firm fulfill
its obligations under these guarantees, and the clients subsequently fail
to perform according to the terms of these contracts. Most of these
commitments and guarantees are refinanced, extended, cancelled, or
expire without being drawn upon or a default occurring. In the Firm’s
view, the total contractual amount of these wholesale lending-related
commitments is not representative of the Firm’s expected future credit
exposure or funding requirements. For further information on
wholesale lending-related commitments, refer to Note 27.
Clearing services
The Firm provides clearing services for clients entering into certain
securities and derivative contracts. Through the provision of these
services the Firm is exposed to the risk of non-performance by its
clients and may be required to share in losses incurred by CCPs.
Where possible, the Firm seeks to mitigate its credit risk to its clients
through the collection of adequate margin at inception and throughout
the life of the transactions and can also cease provision of clearing
services if clients do not adhere to their obligations under the clearing
agreement. For further discussion of clearing services, refer to Note
27.
Derivative contracts
Derivatives enable clients and counterparties to manage risks including
credit risk and risks arising from fluctuations in interest rates, foreign
exchange, equities, and commodities. The Firm makes markets in
derivatives in order to meet these needs and uses derivatives to manage
certain risks associated with net open risk positions from its market-
making activities, including the counterparty credit risk arising from
derivative receivables. The Firm also uses derivative instruments to
manage its own credit and other market risk exposure. The nature of
the counterparty and the settlement mechanism of the derivative affect
the credit risk to which the Firm is exposed. For OTC derivatives the
Firm is exposed to the credit risk of the derivative counterparty. For
exchange-traded derivatives (“ETD”), such as futures and options, and
“cleared” over-the-counter (“OTC-cleared”) derivatives, the Firm is
generally exposed to the credit risk of the relevant CCP. Where
possible, the Firm seeks to mitigate its credit risk exposures arising
from derivative contracts through the use of legally enforceable master
netting arrangements and collateral agreements. For a further
discussion of derivative contracts, counterparties and settlement types,
refer to Note 5.
The following table summarizes the net derivative receivables for the
periods presented. 
Derivative receivables   
December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017
Total, net of cash collateral $ 54,213$ 56,523
Liquid securities and other cash collateral held
against derivative receivables(a) (15,322) (16,108)
Total, net of all collateral $ 38,891$ 40,415
(a)Includes collateral related to derivative instruments where appropriate legal opinions have
not been either sought or obtained with respect to master netting agreements.
The fair value of derivative receivables reported on the Consolidated
balance sheets were $54.2 billion and $56.5 billion at December 31,
2018 and 2017, respectively.
Derivative receivables represent the fair value of the derivative
contracts after giving effect to legally enforceable master netting
agreements and cash collateral held by the Firm. However, in
management’s view, the appropriate measure of current credit risk
should also take into consideration additional liquid securities
(primarily U.S. government and agency securities and other group of
seven nations (“G7”) government securities) and other cash collateral
held by the Firm aggregating $15.3 billion and $16.1 billion at
December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, that may be used as
security when the fair value of the client’s exposure is in the Firm’s
favor.
In addition to the collateral described in the preceding paragraph, the
Firm also holds additional collateral (primarily cash, G7 government
securities, other liquid government-agency and guaranteed securities,
and corporate debt and equity securities) delivered by clients at the
initiation of transactions, as well as collateral related to contracts that
have a non-daily call frequency and collateral that the Firm has agreed
to return but has not yet settled as of the reporting date. Although this
collateral does not reduce the balances and is not included in the table
above, it is available as security against potential exposure that could
arise should the fair value of the client’s derivative contracts move in
the Firm’s favor. The derivative receivables fair value, net of all
collateral, also does not include other credit enhancements, such as
letters of credit. For additional information on the Firm’s use of
collateral agreements, refer to Note 5.
While useful as a current view of credit exposure, the net fair value of
the derivative receivables does not capture the potential future
variability of that credit exposure. To capture the potential future
variability of credit exposure, the Firm calculates, on a client-by-client
basis, three measures of potential derivatives-related credit loss: Peak,
Derivative Risk Equivalent (“DRE”), and Average exposure (“AVG”).
These measures all incorporate netting and collateral benefits, where
applicable.
Peak represents a conservative measure of potential exposure to a
counterparty calculated in a manner that is broadly equivalent to a
97.5% confidence level over the life of the transaction. Peak is the
primary measure used by the Firm for setting of credit limits for
derivative contracts, senior management reporting and derivatives
exposure management. DRE exposure is a measure that expresses the
risk of derivative exposure on a basis intended to be
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  117
Management’ s discussion and analysis
equivalent to the risk of loan exposures. DRE is a less extreme
measure of potential credit loss than Peak and is used as an input for
aggregating derivative credit risk exposures with loans and other credit
risk.
Finally, AVG is a measure of the expected fair value of the Firm’s
derivative receivables at future time periods, including the benefit of
collateral. AVG over the total life of the derivative contract is used as
the primary metric for pricing purposes and is used to calculate credit
risk capital and the CVA, as further described below.
The fair value of the Firm’s derivative receivables incorporates CVA to
reflect the credit quality of counterparties. CVA is based on the Firm’s
AVG to a counterparty and the counterparty’s credit spread in the
credit derivatives market. The Firm believes that active risk
management is essential to controlling the dynamic credit risk in the
derivatives portfolio. In addition, the Firm’s risk management process
takes into consideration the potential impact of wrong-way risk, which
is broadly defined as the potential for increased correlation between
the Firm’s exposure to a counterparty (AVG) and the counterparty’s
credit quality. Many factors may influence the nature and magnitude of
these correlations over time. To the extent that these correlations are
identified, the Firm may adjust the CVA associated with that
counterparty’s AVG. The Firm risk manages exposure to changes in
CVA by entering into credit derivative contracts, as well as interest rate, foreign exchange,
equity and commodity derivative contracts.
The accompanying graph shows exposure profiles to the Firm’s current
derivatives portfolio over the next 10 years as calculated by the Peak,
DRE and AVG metrics. The three measures generally show that
exposure will decline after the first year, if no new trades are added to
the portfolio.
Exposure profile of derivatives measures
December 31, 2018
(in billions)
The following table summarizes the ratings profile of the Firm’s derivative receivables, including credit derivatives, net of all collateral, at the dates
indicated. The ratings scale is based on the Firm’s internal ratings, which generally correspond to the ratings as assigned by S&P and Moody’s.
Ratings profile of derivative receivables  
Rating equivalent 2018 2017
December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)Exposure net of all
collateral% of exposure net
of all collateralExposure net of all
collateral% of exposure net
of all collateral
AAA/Aaa to AA-/Aa3 $ 11,831 31% $ 11,529 29%
A+/A1 to A-/A3 7,428 19 6,919 17
BBB+/Baa1 to BBB-/Baa3 12,536 32 13,925 34
BB+/Ba1 to B-/B3 6,373 16 7,397 18
CCC+/Caa1 and below 723 2 645 2
Total $ 38,891 100% $ 40,415 100%
As previously noted, the Firm uses collateral agreements to mitigate
counterparty credit risk. The percentage of the Firm’s over-the-counter
derivative transactions subject to collateral agreements — excluding
foreign exchange spot trades, which are not typically covered by
collateral agreements due to their short maturity and centrally cleared
trades that are settled daily — was approximately 90% at both
December 31, 2018, and December 31, 2017. 
118  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Credit derivatives
The Firm uses credit derivatives for two primary purposes: first, in its
capacity as a market-maker, and second, as an end-user, to manage the
Firm’s own credit risk associated with various exposures. For a
detailed description of credit derivatives, refer to Credit derivatives in
Note 5.
Credit portfolio management activities
Included in the Firm’s end-user activities are credit derivatives used to
mitigate the credit risk associated with traditional lending activities
(loans and unfunded commitments) and derivatives counterparty
exposure in the Firm’s wholesale businesses (collectively, “credit
portfolio management” activities). Information on credit portfolio
management activities is provided in the table below. For further
information on derivatives used in credit portfolio management
activities, refer to Credit derivatives in Note 5.
The Firm also uses credit derivatives as an end-user to manage other
exposures, including credit risk arising from certain securities held in
the Firm’s market-making businesses. These credit derivatives are not
included in credit portfolio management activities; for further
information on these credit derivatives as well as credit derivatives
used in the Firm’s capacity as a market-maker in credit derivatives,
refer to Credit derivatives in Note 5. 
Credit derivatives used in credit portfolio management activities
 Notional amount of protection
purchased and sold (a)
December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017
Credit derivatives used to manage:   
Loans and lending-related commitments $ 1,272$ 1,867
Derivative receivables 11,410 15,742
Credit derivatives used in credit portfolio
management activities $ 12,682$ 17,609
(a)Amounts are presented net, considering the Firm’s net protection purchased or sold
with respect to each underlying reference entity or index.
The credit derivatives used in credit portfolio management activities
do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP; these
derivatives are reported at fair value, with gains and losses recognized
in principal transactions revenue. In contrast, the loans and lending-
related commitments being risk-managed are accounted for on an
accrual basis. This asymmetry in accounting treatment, between loans
and lending-related commitments and the credit derivatives used in
credit portfolio management activities, causes earnings volatility that is
not representative, in the Firm’s view, of the true changes in value of
the Firm’s overall credit exposure.
The effectiveness of credit default swaps (“CDS”) as a hedge against
the Firm’s exposures may vary depending on a number of factors,
including the named reference entity (i.e., the Firm may experience
losses on specific exposures that are different than the named reference
entities in the purchased CDS); the contractual terms of the CDS
(which may have a defined credit event that does not align with an
actual loss realized by the Firm); and the maturity of the Firm’s CDS
protection (which in some cases may be shorter than the Firm’s
exposures). However, the Firm generally seeks to purchase credit
protection with a maturity date that is the same or similar to the
maturity date of the exposure for which the protection was purchased,
and remaining differences in maturity are actively monitored and
managed by the Firm.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  119
Management’ s discussion and analysis
ALLOW ANCE FOR CREDIT  LOSSES
The Firm’s allowance for credit losses covers the retained consumer
and wholesale loan portfolios, as well as the Firm’s wholesale and
certain consumer lending-related commitments.
For further information on the components of the allowance for credit
losses and related management judgments, refer to Critical Accounting
Estimates Used by the Firm on pages 141-143 and Note 13.
At least quarterly, the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by the
CRO, the CFO and the Controller of the Firm. As of December 31,
2018, JPMorgan Chase deemed the allowance for credit losses to be
appropriate and sufficient to absorb probable credit losses inherent in
the portfolio. The allowance for credit losses decreased compared with
December 31, 2017 driven by:
•a reduction in the consumer allowance due to a $250 million
reduction in the CCB allowance for loan losses in the residential real
estate PCI portfolio, reflecting continued improvement in home
prices and lower delinquencies, as well as a $187 million reduction
in the allowance for write-offs of PCI loans partially due to loan
sales. These reductions were largely offset by a $300 million
addition to the allowance in the credit card portfolio, due to loan
growth and higher loss rates, as anticipated.
For additional information on the consumer and wholesale credit
portfolios, refer to Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 106–111,
Wholesale Credit Portfolio on pages 112–119 and Note 12.
120  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Summary of changes in the allowance for credit losses     
 2018  2017
Year ended December 31, Consumer ,
excluding
credit card Credit card Wholesale Total  Consumer ,
excluding
credit card Credit card Wholesale Total (in millions, except ratios)
Allowance for  loan losses       
Beginning balance at January 1, $ 4,579 $ 4,884 $ 4,141 $ 13,604  $ 5,198 $ 4,034 $ 4,544 $ 13,776
Gross char ge-of fs 1,025 5,011 313 6,349  1,779 4,521 212 6,512
Gross recoveries (842) (493) (158) (1,493 ) (634) (398) (93) (1,125 )
Net charge-offs (a) 183 4,518 155 4,856  1,145 4,123 119 5,387
Write-of fs of PCI loans (b) 187 — — 187  86 — — 86
Provision for loan losses (63) 4,818 130 4,885  613 4,973 (286) 5,300
Other — — (1) (1) (1) — 2 1
Ending balance at December  31, $ 4,146 $ 5,184 $ 4,115 $ 13,445  $ 4,579 $ 4,884 $ 4,141 $ 13,604
Impairment methodology       
Asset-specific (c) $ 196 $ 440 $ 297 $ 933  $ 246 $ 383 $ 461 $ 1,090
Formula-based 2,162 4,744 3,818 10,724  2,108 4,501 3,680 10,289
PCI 1,788 — — 1,788  2,225 — — 2,225
Total allowance for  loan losses $ 4,146 $ 5,184 $ 4,115 $ 13,445  $ 4,579 $ 4,884 $ 4,141 $ 13,604
Allowance for  lending-r elated commitments       
Beginning balance at January 1, $ 33 $ — $ 1,035 $ 1,068  $ 26 $ — $ 1,052 $ 1,078
Provision for lending-related commitments — — (14) (14) 7 — (17) (10)
Other — — 1 1 — — — —
Ending balance at December  31, $ 33 $ — $ 1,022 $ 1,055  $ 33 $ — $ 1,035 $ 1,068
Impairment methodology       
Asset-specific $ — $ — $ 99 $ 99 $ — $ — $ 187 $ 187
Formula-based 33 — 923 956  33 — 848 881
Total allowance for  lending-r elated
commitments (d) $ 33 $ — $ 1,022 $ 1,055  $ 33 $ — $ 1,035 $ 1,068
Total allowance for  credit losses $ 4,179 $ 5,184 $ 5,137 $ 14,500  $ 4,612 $ 4,884 $ 5,176 $ 14,672
Memo:       
Retained loans, end of period $ 373,637 $ 156,616 $ 439,162 $ 969,415  $ 372,553 $ 149,387 $ 402,898 $ 924,838
Retained loans, average 374,395 145,606 416,828 936,829  366,798 139,918 392,263 898,979
PCI loans, end of period 24,034 — 3 24,037  30,576 — 3 30,579
Credit ratios       
Allowance for loan losses to retained loans 1.11% 3.31% 0.94% 1.39% 1.23% 3.27% 1.03% 1.47%
Allowance for loan losses to retained nonaccrual
loans (e) 120 NM 358 292  109 NM 239 229
Allowance for loan losses to retained nonaccrual
loans excluding credit card 120 NM 358 179  109 NM 239 147
Net char ge-of f rates (a) 0.05 3.10 0.04 0.52  0.31 2.95 0.03 0.60
Credit ratios, excluding r esidential r eal estate
PCI loans       
Allowance for loan losses to
retained loans 0.67 3.31 0.94 1.23  0.69 3.27 1.03 1.27
Allowance for loan losses to retained
nonaccrual loans (e) 68 NM 358 253  56 NM 239 191
Allowance for loan losses to retained nonaccrual
 loans excluding credit card 68 NM 358 140  56 NM 239 109
Net char ge-of f rates (a) 0.05% 3.10% 0.04% 0.53% 0.34% 2.95% 0.03% 0.62%
Note:In the table above, the financial measures which exclude the impact of PCI loans are non-GAAP financial measures.
(a)For the year ended December 31, 2017, excluding net charge-offs of $467 million related to the student loan portfolio transfer, the net charge-off rate for Consumer, excluding credit
card would have been 0.18%; total Firm would have been 0.55%; Consumer, excluding credit card and PCI loans would have been 0.20%; and total Firm, excluding PCI would have
been 0.57%.
(b)Write-offs of PCI loans are recorded against the allowance for loan losses when actual losses for a pool exceed estimated losses that were recorded as purchase accounting
adjustments at the time of acquisition. A write-off of a PCI loan is recognized when the underlying loan is removed from a pool.
(c)Includes risk-rated loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status and loans that have been modified in a TDR. The asset-specific credit card allowance for loan losses modified in
a TDR is calculated based on the loans’ original contractual interest rates and does not consider any incremental penalty rates.
(d)The allowance for lending-related commitments is reported in accounts payable and other liabilities on the Consolidated balance sheets.
(e)The Firm’s policy is generally to exempt credit card loans from being placed on nonaccrual status as permitted by regulatory guidance.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  121
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Provision for credit losses
The following table presents the components of the Firm’s provision for credit losses:
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)Provision for loan losses  Provision for
lending-related commitments Total provision for credit losses
2018 2017 2016  2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
Consumer, excluding credit card $ (63)$ 613$ 467 $ — $ 7$ — $ (63)$ 620$ 467
Credit card 4,818 4,973 4,042 — — — 4,818 4,973 4,042
Total consumer 4,755 5,586 4,509 — 7 — 4,755 5,593 4,509
Wholesale 130 (286) 571 (14) (17) 281 116 (303) 852
Total $ 4,885$ 5,300$ 5,080 $ (14)$ (10)$ 281 $ 4,871$ 5,290$ 5,361
Provision for credit losses
The for the year ended December 31, 2018 as a result of a decline in
the consumer provision, partially offset by an increase in the wholesale
provision provision for credit losses for the year ended December 31,
2018 as a result of a decline in the consumer provision, partially offset
by an increase in the wholesale provision for the year ended
December 31, 2018 as a result of a decline in the consumer provision,
partially offset by an increase in the wholesale provision decreased for
the year ended December 31, 2018 as a result of a decline in the
consumer provision, partially offset by an increase in the wholesale
provision
•the decrease in the consumer, excluding credit card portfolio in
CCB was due to
–lower net charge-offs in the residential real estate portfolio, largely
driven by recoveries from loan sales, and
–lower net charge-offs in the auto portfolio
partially offset by
–a $250 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses in the
residential real estate portfolio — PCI, reflecting continued
improvement in home prices and lower delinquencies; the
reduction was $75 million lower than the prior year for the
residential real estate portfolio — non credit-impaired
•the prior year also included a net $218 million write-down recorded
in connection with the sale of the student loan portfolio, and
•the decrease in the credit card portfolio was due to
–a $300 million addition to the allowance for loan losses, reflecting
loan growth and higher loss rates, as anticipated; the addition was
$550 million lower than the prior year,
largely offset by
–higher net charge-offs due to seasoning of more recent vintages, as
anticipated, and •in wholesale , the current period expense of $116 million reflected
additions to the allowance for loan losses from select client
downgrades,
largely offset by
–other net portfolio activity, including a reduction in the allowance
for loan losses related to a single name in the Oil & Gas portfolio
in the first quarter of 2018, compared to a net benefit of $303
million in the prior year. The prior year benefit reflected a
reduction in the allowance for loan losses on credit quality
improvements in the Oil & Gas, Natural Gas Pipelines, and Metals
and Mining portfolios.
 
122  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
INVESTMENT  POR TFOLIO RISK MANAGEMENT
Investment portfolio risk is the risk associated with the loss of
principal or a reduction in expected returns on investments arising
from the investment securities portfolio held predominantly by
Treasury and CIO in connection with the Firm’s balance sheet or asset-
liability management objectives or from principal investments
managed in various LOBs and Corporate in predominantly privately-
held financial instruments. Investments are typically intended to be
held over extended periods and, accordingly, the Firm has no
expectation for short-term realized gains with respect to these
investments.
Investment securities risk
Investment securities risk includes the exposure associated with a
default in the payment of principal and interest. This risk is minimized
given that Treasury and CIO substantially invest in high-quality
securities. At December 31, 2018, the investment securities portfolio
was $260.1 billion, and the average credit rating of the securities
comprising the portfolio was AA+ (based upon external ratings where
available and where not available, based primarily upon internal
ratings that correspond to ratings as defined by S&P and Moody’s).
For further information on the investment securities portfolio, refer to
Corporate segment results on pages 77–78 and Note 10. For further
information on the market risk inherent in the portfolio, refer to Market
Risk Management on pages 124–131. For further information on
related liquidity risk, refer to Liquidity Risk on pages 95–100.
Governance and oversight
Investment securities risks are governed by the Firm’s Risk Appetite
framework, and discussed at the CIO, Treasury and Corporate (CTC)
Risk Committee with regular updates to the DRPC.
The Firm’s independent control functions are responsible for reviewing
the appropriateness of the carrying value of investment securities in
accordance with relevant policies. Approved levels for investment
securities are established for each risk category, including capital and
credit risks. Principal investment risk
Principal investments are typically private non-traded financial
instruments representing ownership or other forms of junior capital.
Principal investments cover multiple asset classes and are made either
in stand-alone investing businesses or as part of a broader business
platform. In general, new principal investments include tax-oriented
investments, as well as investments made to enhance or accelerate
LOB and Corporate strategic business initiatives. The Firm’s principal
investments are managed by the various LOBs and Corporate and are
reflected within their respective financial results. Effective January 1,
2018, the Firm adopted new accounting guidance related to the
recognition and measurement of financial assets, which requires fair
value adjustments upon observable price changes to certain equity
investments previously held at cost in the principal investment
portfolios. For additional information, refer to Notes 1 and 2.
As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the aggregate carrying values of
the principal investment portfolios were $22.2 billion and $19.5
billion, respectively, which included tax-oriented investments (e.g.,
affordable housing and alternative energy investments) of $16.6 billion
and $14.0 billion, respectively, and private equity, various debt and
equity instruments, and real assets of $5.6 billion and $5.5 billion,
respectively.
Governance and oversight
The Firm’s approach to managing principal risk is consistent with the
Firm’s general risk governance structure. A Firmwide risk policy
framework exists for all principal investing activities. All investments
are approved by investment committees that include executives who
are independent from the investing businesses.
The Firm’s independent control functions are responsible for reviewing
the appropriateness of the carrying value of investments in accordance
with relevant policies. As part of the risk governance structure,
approved levels for investments are established and monitored for each
relevant business or segment in order to manage the overall size of the
portfolios. The Firm also conducts stress testing on these portfolios
using specific scenarios that estimate losses based on significant
market moves and/or other risk events.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  123
Management’ s discussion and analysis
MARKET  RISK MANAGEMENT
Market risk is the risk associated with the effect of changes in market
factors such as interest and foreign exchange rates, equity and
commodity prices, credit spreads or implied volatilities, on the value of
assets and liabilities held for both the short and long term.
Market Risk Management
Market Risk Management monitors market risks throughout the Firm
and defines market risk policies and procedures. The Market Risk
Management function reports to the Firm’s CRO.
Market Risk Management seeks to manage risk, facilitate efficient
risk/return decisions, reduce volatility in operating performance and
provide transparency into the Firm’s market risk profile for senior
management, the Board of Directors and regulators. Market Risk
Management is responsible for the following functions:
•Establishment of a market risk policy framework
•Independent measurement, monitoring and control of line of
business, Corporate, and firmwide market risk
•Definition, approval and monitoring of limits
•Performance of stress testing and qualitative risk assessments
Risk measurement
Measures used to capture market risk
There is no single measure to capture market risk and therefore the
Firm uses various metrics, both statistical and nonstatistical, to assess
risk including:
•Value-at-risk (VaR)
•Stress testing
•Profit and loss drawdowns
•Earnings-at-risk
•Other sensitivity-based measures Risk monitoring and control
Market risk exposure is managed primarily through a series of limits
set in the context of the market environment and business strategy. In
setting limits, the Firm takes into consideration factors such as market
volatility, product liquidity, accommodation of client business, and
management experience. The Firm maintains different levels of limits.
Firm level limits include VaR and stress limits. Similarly, line of
business and Corporate limits include VaR and stress limits and may
be supplemented by certain nonstatistical risk measures such as profit
and loss drawdowns. Limits may also be set within the lines of
business and Corporate, as well as at the portfolio and/or legal entity
level.
Market Risk Management sets limits and regularly reviews and
updates them as appropriate, with any changes approved by line of
business or Corporate management and Market Risk Management.
Senior management, including the Firm’s CEO and CRO, are
responsible for reviewing and approving certain of these risk limits on
an ongoing basis. Limits that have not been reviewed within specified
time periods by Market Risk Management are escalated to senior
management. The lines of business and Corporate are responsible for
adhering to established limits against which exposures are monitored
and reported.
Limit breaches are required to be reported in a timely manner to limit
approvers, which include Market Risk Management and senior
management. In the event of a breach, Market Risk Management
consults with senior management of the Firm and of the line of
business or Corporate to determine the appropriate course of action
required to return the applicable positions to compliance, which may
include a reduction in risk in order to remedy the breach or granting a
temporary increase in limits to accommodate an expected increase in
client activity and/or market volatility. Certain Firm, Corporate or line
of business-level limits that have been breached are escalated to senior
management, the LOB Risk Committee, and/or the Firmwide Risk
Committee.
124  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
•
••
••
•
•
•
••
•
•
•• •
•
•
•
••
••
•
• • •
•
•
•• • •
••
•
• •
••
••
•
••
•The following table summarizes, by line of business and Corporate, the predominant business activities that give rise to market risks, and certain
measures used to capture those risks.
Predominant business activities that give rise to market risk by line of business and Corporate
LOBs and
CorporatePredominant business
activities (a) Related market risks Positions included in Risk
Management VaRPositions included in earnings-
at-riskPositions included in other
sensitivity-based measur es
CCB Services mortgage loans
Originates loans and takes
depositsNon-linear risk primarily from
prepayment options embedded in
mortgages and changes in the
probability of newly originated
mortgage commitments actually
closing
Basis risk from dif ferences in
the relative movements of the rate
indices underlying mortgage
exposure and other interest ratesMortgage pipeline loans,
classified as derivatives
Warehouse loans, classified as
trading assets – debt instruments
MSRs
Hedges of pipeline loans,
warehouse loans and MSRs,
classified as derivatives
Interest-only securities, classified
as trading assets debt instruments,
and related hedges, classified as
derivativesRetained loan portfolio
Deposits
 
CIB Makes markets and services
clients across fixed income,
foreign exchange, equities and
commodities
Originates loans and takes
depositsRisk of loss from adverse
movements in market prices
across interest rate, credit,
currency , commodity and equity
risk factorsTrading assets/liabilities – debt
and marketable equity instruments,
and derivatives, including hedges of
the retained loan portfolio
Certain securities purchased,
loaned or sold under resale
agreements and securities borrowed
Fair value option elected
liabilities
Derivative CV A and associated
hedges
Marketable equity investmentsRetained loan portfolio
DepositsPrivately held equity and other
investments measured at fair value
Derivatives FV A and fair value
option elected liabilities DV A
CB Originates loans and takes
depositsInterest rate risk and
prepayment riskRetained loan portfolio
Deposits  
AWM Provides initial capital
investments in products such as
mutual funds and capital
invested alongside third-party
investors
Originates loans and takes
depositsRisk from changes in market
factors (e.g., rates and credit
spreads)Debt securities held in advance
of distribution to clients, classified
as trading assets - debt
instruments(b)Retained loan portfolio
DepositsInitial seed capital investments
and related hedges, classified as
derivatives
Capital invested alongside third-
party investors, typically in
privately distributed collective
vehicles managed by AWM (i.e., co-
investments)
Corporate Manages the Firm’ s liquidity ,
funding, capital, structural
interest rate and foreign
exchange risksStructural interest rate risk
from the Firm’ s traditional
banking activities
Structural non-USD foreign
exchange risksDerivative positions measured at
fair value through noninterest
revenue in earnings
Marketable equity investmentsDeposits with banks
Investment securities portfolio
and related interest rate hedges
Long-term debt and related
interest rate hedgesPrivately held equity and other
investments measured at fair value
Foreign exchange exposure
related to Firm-issued non-USD
long-term debt (“L TD”) and related
hedges
(a) In addition to the predominant business activities, each of the LOBs and Corporate may engage in principal investing activities. To the extent principal investments are deemed market risk
sensitive, they are reflected in relevant risk measures (i.e., VaR or Other sensitivity-based measures) and captured in the table above. For additional discussion on principal investments refer to
Investment Portfolio Risk Management on page 123 .
(b) The AWM contribution to Firmwide average VaR was not material for the year ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  125
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Value-at-risk
JPMorgan Chase utilizes VaR, a statistical risk measure, to estimate the
potential loss from adverse market moves in the current market
environment. The Firm has a single VaR framework used as a basis for
calculating Risk Management VaR and Regulatory VaR.
The framework is employed across the Firm using historical
simulation based on data for the previous 12 months. The framework’s
approach assumes that historical changes in market values are
representative of the distribution of potential outcomes in the
immediate future. The Firm believes the use of Risk Management VaR
provides a daily measure of risk that is closely aligned to risk
management decisions made by the lines of business and Corporate,
and provides the appropriate information needed to respond to risk
events.
The Firm’s Risk Management VaR is calculated assuming a one-day
holding period and an expected tail-loss methodology which
approximates a 95% confidence level. Risk Management VaR provides
a consistent framework to measure risk profiles and levels of
diversification across product types and is used for aggregating risks
and monitoring limits across businesses. VaR results are reported to
senior management, the Board of Directors and regulators.
Under the Firm’s Risk Management VaR methodology, assuming
current changes in market values are consistent with the historical
changes used in the simulation, the Firm would expect to incur VaR
“back-testing exceptions,” defined as losses greater than that predicted
by VaR estimates, an average of five times every 100 trading days. The
number of VaR back-testing exceptions observed can differ from the
statistically expected number of back-testing exceptions if the current
level of market volatility is materially different from the level of
market volatility during the 12 months of historical data used in the
VaR calculation.
Underlying the overall VaR model framework are individual VaR
models that simulate historical market returns for individual risk
factors and/or product types. To capture material market risks as part
of the Firm’s risk management framework, comprehensive VaR model
calculations are performed daily for businesses whose activities give
rise to market risk. These VaR models are granular and incorporate
numerous risk factors and inputs to simulate daily changes in market
values over the historical period; inputs are selected based on the risk
profile of each portfolio, as sensitivities and historical time series used
to generate daily market values may be different across product types
or risk management systems. The VaR model results across all
portfolios are aggregated at the Firm level. As VaR is based on historical data, it is an imperfect measure of
market risk exposure and potential future losses. In addition, based on
their reliance on available historical data, limited time horizons, and
other factors, VaR measures are inherently limited in their ability to
measure certain risks and to predict losses, particularly those
associated with market illiquidity and sudden or severe shifts in market
conditions.
For certain products, specific risk parameters are not captured in VaR
due to the lack of inherent liquidity and availability of appropriate
historical data. The Firm uses proxies to estimate the VaR for these and
other products when daily time series are not available. It is likely that
using an actual price-based time series for these products, if available,
would affect the VaR results presented. The Firm therefore considers
other nonstatistical measures such as stress testing, in addition to VaR,
to capture and manage its market risk positions.
The daily market data used in VaR models may be different than the
independent third-party data collected for VCG price testing in its
monthly valuation process. For example, in cases where market prices
are not observable, or where proxies are used in VaR historical time
series, the data sources may differ. For further information on the
Firm’s valuation process, refer to Valuation process in Note 2. Because
VaR model calculations require daily data and a consistent source for
valuation, it may not be practical to use the data collected in the VCG
monthly valuation process for VaR model calculations.
The Firm’s VaR model calculations are periodically evaluated and
enhanced in response to changes in the composition of the Firm’s
portfolios, changes in market conditions, improvements in the Firm’s
modeling techniques and measurements, and other factors. Such
changes may affect historical comparisons of VaR results. For
information regarding model reviews and approvals, refer to
Estimations and Model Risk Management on page 140.
The Firm calculates separately a daily aggregated VaR in accordance
with regulatory rules (“Regulatory VaR”), which is used to derive the
Firm’s regulatory VaR-based capital requirements under Basel III. This
Regulatory VaR model framework currently assumes a ten business-
day holding period and an expected tail loss methodology which
approximates a 99% confidence level. Regulatory VaR is applied to
“covered” positions as defined by Basel III, which may be different
than the positions included in the Firm’s Risk Management VaR. For
example, credit derivative hedges of accrual loans are included in the
Firm’s Risk Management VaR, while Regulatory VaR excludes these
credit derivative hedges. In addition, in contrast to the Firm’s Risk
Management VaR, Regulatory VaR currently excludes the
diversification benefit for certain VaR models.
126  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
For additional information on Regulatory VaR and the other
components of market risk regulatory capital for the Firm (e.g., VaR-
based measure, stressed VaR-based measure and the respective
backtesting), refer to JPMorgan Chase’s Basel III Pillar 3 Regulatory Capital Disclosures reports, which are available
on the Firm’s website at:
(http://investor.shareholder.com/jpmorganchase/basel.cfm).
The table below shows the results of the Firm’s Risk Management VaR measure using a 95% confidence level.
Total VaR   
As of or for the year ended December 31, 2018 2017
(in millions)  Avg. Min Max  Avg. Min Max
CIB trading VaR by risk type       
Fixed income $ 33 $ 25 $ 46 $ 28 $ 20 $ 40 
Foreign exchange 6 3 15 10 4 20 
Equities 17 13 26 12 8 19 
Commodities and other 8 4 13 7 4 10 
Diversification benefit to CIB trading VaR (26)(a) NM (b) NM (b) (30)(a) NM (b) NM (b) 
CIB trading VaR 38 26(b) 58(b) 27 14(b) 38(b) 
Credit portfolio VaR 3 3 4 7 3 12 
Diversification benefit to CIB VaR (2)(a) NM (b) NM (b) (6)(a) NM (b) NM (b) 
CIB VaR 39 26(b) 59(b) 28 17(b) 39(b) 
       
CCB VaR 1 — 3 2 1 4 
Corporate VaR 12 9 14 4 1 16 
Diversification benefit to other VaR (1)(a) NM (b) NM (b) (1)(a) NM (b) NM (b) 
Other VaR 12 9(b) 14(b) 5 2(b) 16(b) 
Diversification benefit to CIB and other VaR (10)(a) NM (b) NM (b) (4)(a) NM (b) NM (b) 
Total VaR $ 41 $ 28(b) $ 62(b) $ 29 $ 17(b) $ 42(b) 
(a)Average portfolio VaR is less than the sum of the VaR of the components described above, which is due to portfolio diversification. The diversification effect reflects that the risks
are not perfectly correlated.
(b)Diversification benefit represents the difference between the total VaR and each reported level and the sum of its individual components. Diversification benefit reflects the non-
additive nature of VaR due to imperfect correlation across lines of business, Corporate, and risk types. The maximum and minimum VaR  for each portfolio may have occurred on
different trading days than the components and consequently diversification benefit is not meaningful.
Average Total VaR increased $12 million for the year-ended
December 31, 2018 as compared with the prior year.
The increase was primarily due to changes in the risk profile for Fixed
Income and Equities risk types, the inclusion of certain CIB
marketable equity investments and a Corporate private equity position
that became publicly traded in the fourth quarter of 2017, as well as
increased volatility in the one-year historical look-back period.
In addition, average Credit Portfolio VaR has declined by $4 million,
reflecting the sale of select positions in the prior year.
VaR can vary significantly over time as positions change, market
volatility fluctuates, and diversification benefits change. VaR back-testing
The Firm evaluates the effectiveness of its VaR methodology by back-
testing, which compares the daily Risk Management VaR results with
the daily gains and losses actually recognized on market-risk related
revenue.
The Firm’s definition of market risk-related gains and losses is
consistent with the definition used by the banking regulators under
Basel III. Under this definition, market risk-related gains and losses are
defined as: gains and losses on the positions included in the Firm’s
Risk Management VaR, excluding fees, commissions, certain valuation
adjustments, net interest income, and gains and losses arising from
intraday trading.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  127
Management’ s discussion and analysis
The following chart compares actual daily market risk-related gains and losses with the Firm’s Risk Management VaR for the year ended
December 31, 2018. As the chart presents market risk-related gains and losses related to those positions included in the Firm’s Risk Management
VaR, the results in the table below differ from the results of back-testing disclosed in the Market Risk section of the Firm’s Basel III Pillar 3
Regulatory Capital Disclosures reports, which are based on Regulatory VaR applied to covered positions. The chart shows that for the year ended
December 31, 2018 the Firm observed ten VaR back-testing exceptions and posted gains on 128 of the 259 days.
Daily Market Risk-Related Gains and Losses
vs. Risk Management VaR (1-day, 95% Confidence level)
Year ended December 31, 2018
Market Risk-Related Gains and Losses
Risk Management VaR
First Quarter
2018Second Quarter
2018Third Quarter
2018Fourth Quarter
2018
128  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Other risk measures
Stress testing
Along with VaR, stress testing is an important tool used to assess risk.
While VaR reflects the risk of loss due to adverse changes in markets
using recent historical market behavior, stress testing reflects the risk
of loss from hypothetical changes in the value of market risk sensitive
positions applied simultaneously. Stress testing measures the Firm’s
vulnerability to losses under a range of stressed but possible economic
and market scenarios. The results are used to understand the exposures
responsible for those potential losses and are measured against limits.
The Firm’s stress framework covers Corporate and all lines of business
with market risk sensitive positions. The framework is used to
calculate multiple magnitudes of potential stress for both market rallies
and market sell-offs, assuming significant changes in market factors
such as credit spreads, equity prices, interest rates, currency rates and
commodity prices, and combines them in multiple ways to capture an
array of hypothetical economic and market scenarios.
The Firm generates a number of scenarios that focus on tail events in
specific asset classes and geographies, including how the event may
impact multiple market factors simultaneously. Scenarios also
incorporate specific idiosyncratic risks and stress basis risk between
different products. The flexibility in the stress framework allows the
Firm to construct new scenarios that can test the outcomes against
possible future stress events. Stress testing results are reported on a
regular basis to the respective LOBs, Corporate and the Firm’s senior
management.
Stress scenarios are governed by an overall stress framework and are
subject to the standards outlined in the Firm’s policies related to model
risk management. Significant changes to the framework are reviewed
by the relevant LOB Risk Committees on an annual basis or as
changing market conditions warrant and may be redefined to reflect
current or expected market conditions.
The Firm’s stress testing framework is utilized in calculating the
Firm’s CCAR and other stress test results, which are reported to the
Board of Directors. In addition, stress testing results are incorporated
into the Firm’s Risk Appetite framework, and are reported quarterly to
the DRPC. Profit and loss drawdowns
Profit and loss drawdowns are used to highlight trading losses above
certain levels of risk tolerance. Profit and loss drawdowns are defined
as the decline in net profit and loss since the year-to-date peak revenue
level.
Earnings-at-risk
The VaR and sensitivity measures illustrate the economic sensitivity of
the Firm’s Consolidated balance sheets to changes in market variables.
The effect of interest rate exposure on the Firm’s reported net income
is also important as interest rate risk represents one of the Firm’s
significant market risks. Interest rate risk arises not only from trading
activities but also from the Firm’s traditional banking activities, which
include extension of loans and credit facilities, taking deposits and
issuing debt. The Firm evaluates its structural interest rate risk
exposure through earnings-at-risk, which measures the extent to which
changes in interest rates will affect the Firm’s net interest income and
interest rate-sensitive fees. For a summary by line of business and
Corporate, identifying positions included in earnings-at-risk, refer to
the table on page 125.
The CTC Risk Committee establishes the Firm’s structural interest rate
risk policy and related limits, which are subject to approval by the
DRPC. Treasury and CIO, working in partnership with the lines of
business, calculates the Firm’s structural interest rate risk profile and
reviews it with senior management, including the CTC Risk
Committee. In addition, oversight of structural interest rate risk is
managed through a dedicated risk function reporting to the CTC CRO.
This risk function is responsible for providing independent oversight
and governance around assumptions and establishing and monitoring
limits for structural interest rate risk. The Firm manages structural
interest rate risk generally through its investment securities portfolio
and interest rate derivatives.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  129
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Structural interest rate risk can occur due to a variety of factors,
including:
•Differences in the timing among the maturity or repricing of assets,
liabilities and off-balance sheet instruments
•Differences in the amounts of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet
instruments that are repricing at the same time
•Differences in the amounts by which short-term and long-term
market interest rates change (for example, changes in the slope of
the yield curve)
•The impact of changes in the maturity of various assets, liabilities or
off-balance sheet instruments as interest rates change
The Firm manages interest rate exposure related to its assets and
liabilities on a consolidated, firmwide basis. Business units transfer
their interest rate risk to Treasury and CIO through funds transfer
pricing, which takes into account the elements of interest rate exposure
that can be risk-managed in financial markets. These elements include
asset and liability balances and contractual rates of interest, contractual
principal payment schedules, expected prepayment experience, interest
rate reset dates and maturities, rate indices used for repricing, and any
interest rate ceilings or floors for adjustable rate products. All transfer-
pricing assumptions are dynamically reviewed.
The Firm generates a baseline for net interest income and certain
interest rate-sensitive fees, and then conducts simulations of changes
for interest rate-sensitive assets and liabilities denominated in U.S.
dollars and other currencies (“non-U.S. dollar” currencies). This
simulation primarily includes retained loans, deposits, deposits with
banks, investment securities, long term debt and any related interest
rate hedges, and excludes other positions in risk management VaR and
other sensitivity-based measures as described on page 125.
Earnings-at-risk scenarios estimate the potential change in this
baseline, over the following 12 months utilizing multiple assumptions.
These scenarios include a parallel shift involving changes to both
short-term and long-term rates by an equal amount; a steeper yield
curve involving holding short-term rates constant and increasing long-
term rates or decreasing short-term rates and holding long-term rates
constant; and a flatter yield curve involving holding short-term rates
constant and decreasing long-term rates or increasing short-term rates
and holding long-term rates constant. These scenarios consider the
impact on exposures as a result of changes in interest rates from
baseline rates, as well as pricing sensitivities of deposits, optionality
and changes in product mix. The scenarios include forecasted balance
sheet changes, as well as modeled prepayment and reinvestment
behavior, but do not include assumptions about actions that could be
taken by the Firm in response to any such instantaneous rate changes.
Mortgage prepayment assumptions are based on the interest rates used
in the scenarios compared with underlying contractual rates, the time
since origination, and other factors which are updated periodically
based on historical experience. The pricing sensitivity of deposits in
the baseline and scenarios use assumed rates paid which may differ from actual rates paid due to
timing lags and other factors. The Firm’s earnings-at-risk scenarios are
periodically evaluated and enhanced in response to changes in the
composition of the Firm’s balance sheet, changes in market conditions,
improvements in the Firm’s simulation and other factors.
The Firm’s U.S. dollar sensitivities are presented in the table below.
December 31,
(in billions) 2018 2017
Parallel shift:
+100 bps shift in rates$ 0.9 $ 1.7
-100 bps shift in rates(2.1) (3.6)
Steeper yield curve:   
+100 bps shift in long-term rates0.5 0.7
-100 bps shift in short-term rates(1.2) (2.2)
Flatter yield curve:   
+100 bps shift in short-term rates0.4 1.0
-100 bps shift in long-term rates(0.9) (1.4)
The Firm’s sensitivity to rates is largely a result of assets repricing at a
faster pace than deposits.
The Firm’s net U.S. dollar sensitivities as of December 31, 2018
decreased when compared to December 31, 2017 primarily as a result
of updating the Firm’s baseline to reflect higher interest rates. As
higher interest rates are now reflected in the Firm’s baselines,
sensitivities to changes in rates are expected to be less significant.
The Firm’s non-U.S. dollar sensitivities are presented in the table
below.
December 31,
(in billions) 2018 2017
Parallel shift:
+100 bps shift in rates$ 0.5$ 0.5
Flatter yield curve:  
+100 bps shift in short-term rates0.5 0.5
The results of the non-U.S. dollar interest rate scenario involving a
steeper yield curve with long-term rates rising by 100 basis points and
short-term rates staying at current levels were not material to the
Firm’s earnings-at-risk at December 31, 2018 and 2017.
130  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Non-U.S. dollar foreign exchange risk
Non-U.S. dollar FX risk is the risk that changes in foreign exchange
rates affect the value of the Firm’s assets or liabilities or future results.
The Firm has structural non-U.S. dollar FX exposures arising from
capital investments, forecasted expense and revenue, the investment
securities portfolio and non-U.S. dollar-denominated debt issuance. Treasury and
CIO, working in partnership with the lines of business, primarily
manage these risks on behalf of the Firm. Treasury and CIO may
hedge certain of these risks using derivatives within risk limits
governed by the CTC Risk Committee.
Other sensitivity-based measures
The Firm quantifies the market risk of certain investment and funding activities by assessing the potential impact on net revenue and OCI due to
changes in relevant market variables. For additional information on the positions captured in other sensitivity-based measures, refer to the table
Predominant business activities that give rise to market risk on page 125.
The table below represents the potential impact to net revenue or OCI for market risk sensitive instruments that are not included in VaR or earnings-
at-risk. Where appropriate, instruments used for hedging purposes are reported along with the positions being hedged. The sensitivities disclosed in
the table below may not be representative of the actual gain or loss that would have been realized at December 31, 2018 and 2017, as the movement
in market parameters across maturities may vary and are not intended to imply management’s expectation of future deterioration in these
sensitivities.
Year ended December 31,
Gain/(loss) (in millions)     
Activity  Description  Sensitivity measure 2018 2017
Investment activities(a)    
Investment management activities Consists of seed capital and related hedges; and fund
co-investments  10% decline in market value $ (102)$ (110)
Other investments Consists of privately held equity and other
investments held at fair value  10% decline in market value (218) (338)
     
Funding activities     
Non-USD LTD cross-currency basis
 Represents the basis risk on derivatives used to
hedge the foreign exchange risk on the non-USD
LTD(b)  1 basis point parallel tightening of
cross currency basis(13) (10)
Non-USD LTD hedges foreign currency
(“FX”) exposure Primarily represents the foreign exchange
revaluation on the fair value of the derivative
hedges(b)  10% depreciation of currency 17 (13)
Derivatives – funding spread risk Impact of changes in the spread related to
derivatives FVA  1 basis point parallel increase in
spread(4) (6)
Fair value option elected liabilities –
funding spread risk  Impact of changes in the spread related to fair value
option elected liabilities DVA(b)  1 basis point parallel increase in
spread30 22
Fair value option elected liabilities –interest
rate sensitivity Interest rate sensitivity on fair value option liabilities
resulting from a change in the Firm’s own credit
spread(b)  1 basis point parallel increase in
spread1 (1)
(a)Excludes equity securities without readily determinable fair values that are measured under the measurement alternative. Refer to Note 2 for additional information.
(b)Impact recognized through OCI.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  131
Management’ s discussion and analysis
COUNTR Y RISK MANAGEMENT
The Firm, through its lines of business and Corporate, may be exposed
to country risk resulting from financial, economic, political or other
significant developments which adversely affect the value of the
Firm’s exposures related to a particular country or set of countries. The
Country Risk Management group actively monitors the various
portfolios which may be impacted by these developments and
measures the extent to which the Firm’s exposures are diversified
given the Firm’s strategy and risk tolerance relative to a country.
Organization and management
Country Risk Management is an independent risk management
function that assesses, manages and monitors country risk originated
across the Firm. The Firmwide Risk Executive for Country Risk
reports to the Firm’s CRO.
The Firm’s country risk management function includes the following
activities:
•Establishing policies, procedures and standards consistent with a
comprehensive country risk framework
•Assigning sovereign ratings, assessing country risks and
establishing risk tolerance relative to a country
•Measuring and monitoring country risk exposure and stress across
the Firm
•Managing and approving country limits and reporting trends and
limit breaches to senior management
•Developing surveillance tools, such as signaling models and ratings
indicators, for early identification of potential country risk concerns
•Providing country risk scenario analysis
Sources and measurement
The Firm is exposed to country risk through its lending and deposits,
investing, and market-making activities, whether cross-border or
locally funded. Country exposure includes activity with both
government and private-sector entities in a country. Under the Firm’s
internal country risk management approach, attribution of exposure to
a specific country is based on the country where the largest proportion
of the assets of the counterparty, issuer, obligor or guarantor are
located or where the largest proportion of its revenue is derived, which
may be different than the domicile (i.e. legal residence) or country of
incorporation of the counterparty, issuer, obligor or guarantor. Country
exposures are generally measured by considering the Firm’s risk to an
immediate default of the counterparty, issuer, obligor or guarantor,
with zero recovery. Assumptions are sometimes required in
determining the measurement and allocation of country exposure,
particularly in the case of certain non-linear or index exposures. The
use of different measurement approaches or assumptions could affect
the amount of reported country exposure. During the fourth quarter of 2018, the Firm refined its country
exposure measurement approach to exclude capital invested in local
entities. With this change, country exposure more directly measures
the Firm’s risk to an immediate default of a counterparty, issuer,
obligor or guarantor. The risk associated with capital invested in local
entities will continue to be examined in tailored stress scenarios,
depending on the vulnerabilities being tested. For more on the Firm’s
country risk stress testing, refer to page 133.
Under the Firm’s internal country risk measurement framework:
•Lending exposures are measured at the total committed amount
(funded and unfunded), net of the allowance for credit losses and
eligible cash and marketable securities collateral received
•Deposits are measured as the cash balances placed with central and
commercial banks
•Securities financing exposures are measured at their receivable
balance, net of eligible collateral received
•Debt and equity securities are measured at the fair value of all
positions, including both long and short positions
•Counterparty exposure on derivative receivables is measured at the
derivative’s fair value, net of the fair value of the eligible collateral
received
•Credit derivatives protection purchased and sold is reported based
on the underlying reference entity and is measured at the notional
amount of protection purchased or sold, net of the fair value of the
recognized derivative receivable or payable. Credit derivatives
protection purchased and sold in the Firm’s market-making
activities is measured on a net basis, as such activities often result
in selling and purchasing protection related to the same underlying
reference entity; this reflects the manner in which the Firm
manages these exposures
Some activities may create contingent or indirect exposure related to a
country (for example, providing clearing services or secondary
exposure to collateral on securities financing receivables). These
exposures are managed in the normal course of business through the
Firm’s credit, market, and operational risk governance, rather than
through Country Risk Management.
The Firm’s internal country risk reporting differs from the reporting
provided under the FFIEC bank regulatory requirements. For further
information on the FFIEC’s reporting methodology, refer to Cross-
border outstandings on page 306 of the 2018 Form 10-K.
132  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Stress testing
Stress testing is an important component of the Firm’s country risk
management framework, which aims to estimate and limit losses
arising from a country crisis by measuring the impact of adverse asset
price movements to a country based on market shocks combined with
counterparty specific assumptions. Country Risk Management
periodically designs and runs tailored stress scenarios to test
vulnerabilities to individual countries or sets of countries in response
to specific or potential market events, sector performance concerns,
sovereign actions and geopolitical risks. These tailored stress results
are used to inform potential risk reduction across the Firm, as
necessary.
Risk reporting
To enable effective risk management of country risk to the Firm,
country exposure and stress are measured and reported weekly, and
used by Country Risk Management to identify trends, and monitor
high usages and breaches against limits.
The following table presents the Firm’s top 20 exposures by country
(excluding the U.S.) as of December 31, 2018, and their comparative
exposures as of December 31, 2017. The selection of countries
represents the Firm’s largest total exposures by country, based on the
Firm’s internal country risk management approach, and does not
represent the Firm’s view of any actual or potentially adverse credit
conditions. Country exposures may fluctuate from period to period due
to client activity and market flows.
As discussed on page 132, during the fourth quarter of 2018 the Firm
refined its country exposure measurement approach to exclude capital
invested in local entities. While this change did not have a material
impact to country exposure, prior period amounts have been revised
within the following table to conform with the current period
presentation. 
Top 20 country exposures (excluding the U.S.)(a)
December 31,
(in billions) 2018 2017(f)
 Lending and
deposits(b)Trading and
investing(c)(d) Other(e)Total
exposureTotal
exposure
Germany $ 53.7$ 8.1$ 0.3$ 62.1$ 57.4
United
Kingdom 28.0 10.1 2.6 40.7 44.9
Japan 25.4 3.3 0.4 29.1 30.8
China 9.5 7.1 2.7 19.3 16.3
France 10.8 6.5 0.6 17.9 19.4
Canada 10.8 3.4 0.1 14.3 14.9
Australia 7.2 5.4 0.4 13.0 11.4
Switzerland 9.1 0.6 3.1 12.8 13.9
India 6.1 4.0 1.7 11.8 12.3
Luxembourg 10.5 0.5 — 11.0 9.5
South Korea 4.2 3.2 0.2 7.6 6.8
Brazil 4.4 2.9 — 7.3 4.6
Singapore 3.9 1.4 1.5 6.8 6.3
Italy 2.4 3.8 0.2 6.4 6.7
Netherlands 5.0 0.4 0.4 5.8 8.0
Mexico 3.7 1.8 — 5.5 5.2
Hong Kong 2.4 1.1 1.9 5.4 4.2
Saudi Arabia 4.7 0.6 — 5.3 4.5
Spain 3.8 1.3 — 5.1 6.8
Malaysia 1.8 1.1 1.4 4.3 3.0
(a)Country exposures presented in the table reflect 87% and 86% of total firmwide
non-U.S. exposure, where exposure is attributed to a specific country, for the periods
ending December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
(b)Lending and deposits includes loans and accrued interest receivable (net of eligible
collateral and the allowance for loan losses), deposits with banks (including central
banks), acceptances, other monetary assets, issued letters of credit net of
participations, and unused commitments to extend credit. Excludes intra-day and
operating exposures, such as those from settlement and clearing activities.
(c)Includes market-making inventory, AFS securities, and counterparty exposure on
derivative and securities financings net of eligible collateral and hedging.
(d)Includes single reference entity (“single-name”), index and other multiple reference
entity transactions for which one or more of the underlying reference entities is in a
country listed in the above table.
(e)Predominantly includes physical commodity inventory.
(f)The country rankings presented in the table as of December 31, 2017, are based on
the country rankings of the corresponding exposures at December 31, 2018, not
actual rankings of such exposures at December 31, 2017.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  133
Management’ s discussion and analysis
OPERA TIONAL  RISK MANAGEMENT
Operational risk is the risk associated with inadequate or failed internal
processes, people and systems, or from external events and includes
compliance risk, conduct risk, legal risk, and estimations and model
risk. Operational risk is inherent in the Firm’s activities and can
manifest itself in various ways, including fraudulent acts, business
interruptions, cybersecurity attacks, inappropriate employee behavior,
failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or failure of
vendors to perform in accordance with their agreements. These events
could result in financial losses, litigation and regulatory fines, as well
as other damages to the Firm. The goal is to keep operational risk at
appropriate levels in light of the Firm’s financial position, the
characteristics of its businesses, and the markets and regulatory
environments in which it operates.
Operational Risk Management Framework
To monitor and control operational risk, the Firm has an Operational
Risk Management Framework (“ORMF”) which is designed to enable
the Firm to maintain a sound and well-controlled operational
environment. The ORMF has four main components: Governance,
Operational Risk Identification and Assessment, Operational Risk
Measurement, and Operational Risk Monitoring and Reporting.
Governance
The lines of business and Corporate are responsible for applying the
ORMF in order to manage the operational risk that arises from their
activities. The Control Management organization, which consists of
control managers within each line of business and Corporate, is
responsible for the day-to-day execution of the ORMF.
Line of business and Corporate control committees are responsible for
reviewing data that indicates the quality and stability of processes,
addressing key operational risk issues, focusing on processes with
control concerns, and overseeing control remediation. These
committees escalate operational risk issues to the FCC, as appropriate.
For additional information on the FCC, refer to Enterprise-wide Risk
Management on pages 79–140.
The Firmwide Risk Executive for Operational Risk Management
(“ORM”), a direct report to the CRO, is responsible for defining the
ORMF and establishing minimum standards for its execution.
Operational Risk Officers report to both the line of business CROs and
to the Firmwide Risk Executive for ORM, and are independent of the
respective businesses or corporate functions they oversee.
The Firm’s Operational Risk Management Policy is approved by the
DRPC. This policy establishes the Operational Risk Management
Framework for the Firm. Operational Risk identification and assessment
The Firm utilizes a structured risk and control self-assessment process
which is executed by the lines of business and Corporate in accordance
with the minimum standards established by ORM, to identify, assess,
mitigate and manage its operational risk. As part of this process, lines
of business and Corporate identify key operational risks inherent in
their activities, address gaps or deficiencies identified, and define
actions to reduce residual risk. Action plans are developed for
identified control issues and lines of business and Corporate are held
accountable for tracking and resolving issues in a timely manner.
Operational Risk Officers independently challenge the execution of the
self-assessment and evaluate the appropriateness of the residual risk
results.
In addition to the self-assessment process, the Firm tracks and
monitors events that have led to or could lead to actual operational risk
losses, including litigation-related events. Responsible lines of
business and Corporate analyze their losses to evaluate the
effectiveness of their control environment to assess where controls
have failed, and to determine where targeted remediation efforts may
be required. ORM provides oversight of these activities and may also
perform independent assessments of significant operational risk events
and areas of concentrated or emerging risk.
Operational Risk Measurement
In addition to the level of actual operational risk losses, operational
risk measurement includes operational risk-based capital and
operational risk loss projections under both baseline and stressed
conditions.
The primary component of the operational risk capital estimate is the
Loss Distribution Approach (“LDA”) statistical model, which
simulates the frequency and severity of future operational risk loss
projections based on historical data. The LDA model is used to
estimate an aggregate operational risk loss over a one-year time
horizon, at a 99.9% confidence level. The LDA model incorporates
actual internal operational risk losses in the quarter following the
period in which those losses were realized, and the calculation
generally continues to reflect such losses even after the issues or
business activities giving rise to the losses have been remediated or
reduced.
As required under the Basel III capital framework, the Firm’s
operational risk-based capital methodology, which uses the Advanced
Measurement Approach (“AMA”), incorporates internal and external
losses as well as management’s view of tail risk captured through
operational risk scenario analysis, and evaluation of key business
environment and internal control metrics. The Firm does not reflect the
impact of insurance in its AMA estimate of operational risk capital.
134  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
The Firm considers the impact of stressed economic conditions on
operational risk losses and develops a forward looking view of
material operational risk events that may occur in a stressed
environment. The Firm’s operational risk stress testing framework is
utilized in calculating results for the Firm’s CCAR and other stress
testing processes.
For information related to operational risk RWA, CCAR or ICAAP,
refer to Capital Risk Management section, pages 85-94.
Operational Risk Monitoring and reporting
ORM has established standards for consistent operational risk
monitoring and reporting. Operational risk reports are produced on a
firmwide basis as well as by line of business and Corporate.  Reporting
includes the evaluation of key risk indicators against established
thresholds as well as the assessment of different types of operational
risk against stated risk appetite. The standards reinforce escalation
protocols to senior management and to the Board of Directors.
Subcategories and examples of operational risks
Operational risk can manifest itself in various ways. Operational risk
subcategories such as Compliance risk, Conduct risk, Legal risk and
Estimations and Model risk, as well as other operational risks, can lead
to losses which are captured through the Firm’s operational risk
measurement processes. For more information on Compliance risk,
Conduct risk, Legal risk and Estimations and Model risk, refer to
pages 137, 138, 139 and 140, respectively. Details on other select
examples of operational risks are provided below.
Cybersecurity risk
Cybersecurity risk is an important, continuous and evolving focus for
the Firm. The Firm devotes significant resources to protecting and
continuing to improve the security of the Firm’s computer systems,
software, networks and other technology assets. The Firm’s security
efforts are designed to protect against, among other things,
cybersecurity attacks by unauthorized parties attempting to obtain
access to confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade
service, sabotage systems or cause other damage. The Firm continues
to make significant investments in enhancing its cyberdefense
capabilities and to strengthen its partnerships with the appropriate
government and law enforcement agencies and other businesses in
order to understand the full spectrum of cybersecurity risks in the
operating environment, enhance defenses and improve resiliency
against cybersecurity threats. The Firm actively participates in
discussions of cybersecurity risks with law enforcement, government
officials, peer and industry groups, and has significantly increased
efforts to educate employees and certain clients on the topic.
Third parties with which the Firm does business or that facilitate the
Firm’s business activities (e.g., vendors, exchanges, clearing houses,
central depositories, and financial intermediaries) could also be
sources of cybersecurity risk to the Firm. Third party cybersecurity incidents such
as system breakdowns or failures, misconduct by the employees of
such parties, or cyberattacks could affect their ability to deliver a
product or service to the Firm or result in lost or compromised
information of the Firm or its clients. Clients can also be sources of
cybersecurity risk to the Firm, particularly when their activities and
systems are beyond the Firm’s own security and control systems. As a
result, the Firm engages in regular and ongoing discussions with
certain vendors and clients regarding cybersecurity risks and
opportunities to improve security. However, where cybersecurity
incidents are due to client failure to maintain the security of their own
systems and processes, clients will generally be responsible for losses
incurred.
To protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the Firm’s
infrastructure, resources and information, the Firm maintains a
cybersecurity program to prevent, detect, and respond to
cyberattacks. The Global Chief Information Officer, Chief Technology
Control Officer, and Chief Information Security Officer (“CISO”)
update the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors at least annually
on the Firm’s Information Security Program, recommended changes,
cybersecurity policies and practices, ongoing efforts to improve
security, as well as its efforts regarding significant cybersecurity
events. In addition, the Firm has a detailed cybersecurity incident
response plan (“IRP”) designed to enable the Firm to respond to
attempted cybersecurity incidents, coordinate such responses with law
enforcement and other government agencies, and notify clients and
customers. Among other key focus areas, the IRP is designed to
mitigate the risk of insider trading connected to a cybersecurity
incident, and includes various escalation points in this regard including
Compliance and the Legal Department.
The Cybersecurity and Technology Control functions are responsible
for governance and oversight of the Firm’s Information Security
Program. In partnership with the Firm’s lines of business, the
Cybersecurity and Technology Control organization identifies
information security risk issues and champions programs for the
technological protection of the Firm’s information resources including
applications, infrastructure as well as confidential and personal
information related to the Firm’s customers. The Cybersecurity and
Technology Control organization comprises Governance and Control,
Assessments, Assurance and Training, Cybersecurity Operations,
business aligned control officers, Identity and Access Management,
and resiliency functions that execute the Information Security
Program.
The Global Cybersecurity and Technology Control governance
structure is designed to identify, escalate, and mitigate information
security risks. This structure uses key governance forums to
disseminate information and monitor technology efforts. These forums
are established at multiple levels throughout the Firm and include
representatives from each line of business and Corporate.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  135
Management’ s discussion and analysis
Reports containing overviews of key technology risks and efforts to
enhance related controls are produced for these forums, and are
reviewed by management at multiple levels including technology
management, Firmwide management and the Operating Committee.
The forums are used to escalate information security risks or other
matters as appropriate to the FCC.
IRM provides oversight of the activities which identify, assess, manage
and mitigate cybersecurity risk. As integral participants in
cybersecurity governance forums, the IRM organization actively
monitors and oversees the Cybersecurity and Technology Control
functions.
The Firm’s Security Awareness Program includes training that
reinforces the Firm's Information Technology Risk and Security
Management policies, standards and practices, as well as the
expectation that employees comply with these policies. The Security
Awareness Program engages personnel through training on how to
identify potential cybersecurity risks and protect the Firm’s resources
and information. This training is mandatory for all employees globally
on an annual basis, and it is supplemented by firmwide testing
initiatives, including quarterly phishing tests. Finally, the Firm’s
Global Privacy Program requires all employees to take annual
awareness training on data privacy. This privacy-focused training
includes information about confidentiality and security, as well as
responding to unauthorized access to or use of information.
Business and technology resiliency risk
Business disruptions can occur due to forces beyond the Firm’s control
such as severe weather, power or telecommunications loss, flooding,
transit strikes, terrorist threats or infectious disease. The safety of the
Firm’s employees and customers is of the highest priority. The Firm’s
global resiliency program is intended to enable the Firm to recover its
critical business functions and supporting assets (i.e., staff, technology
and facilities) in the event of a business interruption. The program
includes corporate governance, awareness training, and testing of
recovery strategies, as well as strategic and tactical initiatives to
identify, assess, and manage business interruption and public safety
risks. The strength and proficiency of the Firm’s global resiliency program
has played an integral role in maintaining the Firm’s business
operations during and after various events.
Payment fraud risk
Payment fraud risk is the risk of external and internal parties
unlawfully obtaining personal monetary benefit through misdirected or
otherwise improper payment. Over the past year, the risk of payment
fraud remained at a heightened level across the industry. The
complexities of these incidents and the strategies used by perpetrators
continue to evolve. A Payments Control Program including the LOBs
and Corporate develop methods for managing the risk, implementing
controls and providing employee and client education and awareness
training. The Firm’s monitoring of customer behavior is periodically
evaluated and enhanced in an effort to detect and mitigate new
strategies implemented by fraud perpetrators. The Firm’s consumer
and wholesale businesses collaborate closely to deploy risk mitigation
controls across their businesses.
Third-party outsourcing risk
To identify and manage the operational risk inherent in its outsourcing
activities, the Firm has a Third-Party Oversight (“TPO”) framework to
assist the lines of business and Corporate in selecting, documenting,
onboarding, monitoring and managing their supplier relationships. The
objective of the TPO framework is to hold third parties to the same
high level of operational performance as is expected of the Firm’s
internal operations.  The Corporate Third-Party Oversight group
is responsible for Firmwide TPO training, monitoring, reporting and
standards.
Insurance
One of the ways in which operational risk may be mitigated is through
insurance maintained by the Firm. The Firm purchases insurance from
commercial insurers and utilizes a wholly-owned captive insurer, Park
Assurance Company, as needed to comply with local laws and
regulations (e.g., workers compensation), as well as to serve other
needs (e.g., property loss and public liability). Insurance may also be
required by third parties with whom the Firm does business. The
insurance purchased is reviewed and approved by senior management.
136  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT
Compliance risk, a subcategory of operational risk, is the risk of failure
to comply with legal or regulatory obligations or codes of conduct and
standards of self-regulatory organizations applicable to the business
activities of the Firm.
Overview
Each line of business and Corporate hold primary ownership of and
accountability for managing compliance risk. The Firm’s Compliance
Organization (“Compliance”), which is independent of the lines of
business, works closely with senior management to provide
independent review, monitoring and oversight of business operations
with a focus on compliance with the legal and regulatory obligations
applicable to the delivery of the Firm’s products and services to clients
and customers.
These compliance risks relate to a wide variety of legal and regulatory
obligations, depending on the line of business and the jurisdiction, and
include those related to financial products and services, relationships
and interactions with clients and customers, and employee activities.
For example, compliance risks include those associated with anti-
money laundering compliance, trading activities, market conduct, and
complying with the rules and regulations related to the offering of
products and services across jurisdictional borders, among others.
Compliance risk is also inherent in the Firm’s fiduciary activities,
including the failure to exercise the applicable standard of care (such
as the duties of loyalty or care), to act in the best interest of clients and
customers or to treat clients and customers fairly.
Other Functions provide oversight of significant regulatory obligations
that are specific to their respective areas of responsibility.
Compliance implements various practices designed to identify and
mitigate compliance risk by establishing policies and standards,
testing, monitoring, training and providing guidance. Governance and oversight
Compliance is led by the Firms’ CCO who reports to the Firm’s CRO.
The Firm maintains oversight and coordination of its Compliance Risk
Management practices through the Firm’s CCO, lines of business
CCOs and regional CCOs to implement the Compliance program
globally across the lines of business and regions. The Firm’s CCO is a
member of the FCC and the FRC. The Firm’s CCO also provides
regular updates to the Audit Committee and DRPC. In addition, certain
Special Purpose Committees of the Board have been established to
oversee the Firm’s compliance with regulatory Consent Orders.
The Firm has a Code of Conduct (the “Code”). Each employee is given
annual training on the Code and is required annually to affirm his or
her compliance with the Code. All new hires must complete Code
training shortly after their start date with the Firm. The Code sets forth
the Firm’s expectation that employees will conduct themselves with
integrity at all times and provides the principles that govern employee
conduct with clients, customers, shareholders and one another, as well
as with the markets and communities in which the Firm does business.
The Code requires employees to promptly report any known or
suspected violation of the Code, any internal Firm policy, or any law or
regulation applicable to the Firm’s business. It also requires employees
to report any illegal conduct, or conduct that violates the underlying
principles of the Code, by any of the Firm’s employees, customers,
suppliers, contract workers, business partners, or agents. The Code
prohibits retaliation against anyone who raises an issue or concern in
good faith. Specified compliance officers are specially trained and
designated as “code specialists” who act as a resource to employees on
questions related to the Code. Employees can report any known or
suspected violations of the Code through the Code Reporting Hotline
by phone or the internet. The Hotline is anonymous, except in certain
non-U.S. jurisdictions where laws prohibit anonymous reporting, and
is available 24/7 globally, with translation services. It is maintained by
an outside service provider. Annually, the Audit Committee receives a
report on the Code of Conduct program, including an update on the
employee completion rate for Code of Conduct training and
affirmation.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  137
Management’ s discussion and analysis
CONDUCT  RISK MANAGEMENT
Conduct risk, a subcategory of operational risk, is the risk that any
action or inaction by an employee or employees could lead to unfair
client or customer outcomes, impact the integrity of the markets in
which the Firm operates, or compromise the Firm’s reputation.
Overview
Each line of business and Corporate is accountable for identifying and
managing its conduct risk to provide appropriate engagement,
ownership and sustainability of a culture consistent with the Firm’s
How We Do Business Principles (the “Principles”). The Principles
serve as a guide for how employees are expected to conduct
themselves. With the Principles serving as a guide, the Firm’s Code
sets out the Firm’s expectations for each employee and provides
information and resources to help employees conduct business
ethically and in compliance with the law everywhere the Firm
operates. For further discussion of the Code, refer to Compliance Risk
Management on page 137.
Governance and oversight
The Conduct Risk Program is governed by a Board-level approved
Conduct Risk Governance Policy. The Conduct Risk Governance
Policy establishes the framework for ownership, assessment, managing
and escalating conduct risk in the Firm. The CRSC provides oversight of the Firm’s conduct initiatives to
develop a more holistic view of conduct risks and to connect key
programs across the Firm in order to identify opportunities and
emerging areas of focus.
The CRSC may escalate systemic conduct risk issues to the FRC and
as appropriate to the DRPC. The misconduct (actual or potential) of
individuals involved in material risk and control issues are escalated to
the HR Control Forum.
Certain committees of the Board oversee conduct risk issues within the
scope of their responsibilities.
Conduct risk management encompasses various aspects of people
management practices throughout the employee life cycle, including
recruiting, onboarding, training and development, performance
management, promotion and compensation processes. Each LOB,
Treasury and CIO, and designated corporate function completes an
assessment of conduct risk quarterly, reviews metrics and issues which
may involve conduct risk, and provides business conduct training as
appropriate.
138  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
LEGAL  RISK MANAGEMENT
Legal risk, a subcategory of operational risk, is the risk of loss
primarily caused by the actual or alleged failure to meet legal
obligations that arise from the rule of law in jurisdictions in which the
Firm operates, agreements with clients and customers, and products
and services offered by the Firm.
Overview
The global Legal function (“Legal”) provides legal services and advice
to the Firm. Legal is responsible for managing the Firm’s exposure to
Legal risk by:
•managing actual and potential litigation and enforcement matters,
including internal reviews and investigations related to such
matters
•advising on products and services, including contract negotiation
and documentation
•advising on offering and marketing documents and new business
initiatives
•managing dispute resolution
•interpreting existing laws, rules and regulations, and advising on
changes thereto
•advising on advocacy in connection with contemplated and
proposed laws, rules and regulations, and
•providing legal advice to the LOBs and Corporate, in alignment
with the lines of defense described under Enterprise-wide Risk
Management. Legal selects, engages and manages outside counsel for the Firm on all
matters in which outside counsel is engaged. In addition, Legal advises
the Firm’s Conflicts Office which reviews the Firm’s wholesale
transactions that may have the potential to create conflicts of interest
for the Firm.
Governance and oversight
The Firm’s General Counsel reports to the CEO and is a member of the
Operating Committee, the Firmwide Risk Committee and the
Firmwide Control Committee. The General Counsel’s leadership team
includes a General Counsel for each line of business, the heads of the
Litigation and Corporate & Regulatory practices, as well as the Firm’s
Corporate Secretary. Each region (e.g., Latin America, Asia Pacific)
has a General Counsel who is responsible for managing legal risk
across all lines of business and functions in the region.
The Firm’s General Counsel and other members of Legal report on
significant legal matters at each meeting of the Firm’s Board of
Directors, at least quarterly to the Audit Committee, and periodically to
the DRPC. 
Legal serves on and advises various committees (including new
business initiative and reputation risk committees) and advises the
Firm’s businesses to protect the Firm’s reputation beyond any
particular legal requirements.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  139
Management’ s discussion and analysis
ESTIMA TIONS AND MODEL  RISK MANAGEMENT
Estimations and Model risk, a subcategory of operational risk, is the
potential for adverse consequences from decisions based on incorrect
or misused estimation outputs.
The Firm uses models and other analytical and judgment-based
estimations across various businesses and functions. The estimation
methods are of varying levels of sophistication and are used for many
purposes, such as the valuation of positions and measurement of risk,
assessing regulatory capital requirements, conducting stress testing,
and making business decisions. A dedicated independent function,
Model Risk Governance and Review (“MRGR”), defines and governs
the Firm’s model risk management policies and certain analytical and
judgment-based estimations, such as those used in risk management,
budget forecasting and capital planning and analysis. MRGR reports to
the Firm’s CRO.
The governance of analytical and judgment-based estimations within
MRGR’s scope follows a consistent approach to the approach used for
models, which is described in detail below.
Model risks are owned by the users of the models within the Firm
based on the specific purposes of such models. Users and developers
of models are responsible for developing, implementing and testing
their models, as well as referring models to the Model Risk function
for review and approval. Once models have been approved, model
users and developers are responsible for maintaining a robust operating
environment, and must monitor and evaluate the performance of the
models on an ongoing basis. Model users and developers may seek to
enhance models in response to changes in the portfolios and in product
and market developments, as well as to capture improvements in
available modeling techniques and systems capabilities. Models are tiered based on an internal standard according to their
complexity, the exposure associated with the model and the Firm’s
reliance on the model. This tiering is subject to the approval of the
Model Risk function. In its review of a model, the Model Risk function
considers whether the model is suitable for the specific purposes for
which it will be used. The factors considered in reviewing a model
include whether the model accurately reflects the characteristics of the
product and its significant risks, the selection and reliability of model
inputs, consistency with models for similar products, the
appropriateness of any model-related adjustments, and sensitivity to
input parameters and assumptions that cannot be observed from the
market. When reviewing a model, the Model Risk function analyzes
and challenges the model methodology and the reasonableness of
model assumptions and may perform or require additional testing,
including back-testing of model outcomes. Model reviews are
approved by the appropriate level of management within the Model
Risk function based on the relevant model tier.
Under the Firm’s Estimations and Model Risk Management Policy, the
Model Risk function reviews and approves new models, as well as
material changes to existing models, prior to implementation in the
operating environment. In certain circumstances, the head of the
Model Risk function may grant exceptions to the Firm’s policy to
allow a model to be used prior to review or approval. The Model Risk
function may also require the user to take appropriate actions to
mitigate the model risk if it is to be used in the interim. These actions
will depend on the model and may include, for example, limitation of
trading activity.
For a summary of model-based valuations and other valuation
techniques, refer to Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm on
pages 141-143 and Note 2.
140  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
CRITICAL  ACCOUNTING ESTIMA TES USED BY  THE FIRM
JPMorgan Chase’s accounting policies and use of estimates are integral
to understanding its reported results. The Firm’s most complex
accounting estimates require management’s judgment to ascertain the
appropriate carrying value of assets and liabilities. The Firm has
established policies and control procedures intended to ensure that
estimation methods, including any judgments made as part of such
methods, are well-controlled, independently reviewed and applied
consistently from period to period. The methods used and judgments
made reflect, among other factors, the nature of the assets or liabilities
and the related business and risk management strategies, which may
vary across the Firm’s businesses and portfolios. In addition, the
policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for
changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. The Firm
believes its estimates for determining the carrying value of its assets
and liabilities are appropriate. The following is a brief description of
the Firm’s critical accounting estimates involving significant
judgments.
Allowance for credit losses
JPMorgan Chase’s allowance for credit losses covers the retained
consumer and wholesale loan portfolios, as well as the Firm’s
wholesale and certain consumer lending-related commitments. The
allowance for loan losses is intended to adjust the carrying value of the
Firm’s loan assets to reflect probable credit losses inherent in the loan
portfolio as of the balance sheet date. Similarly, the allowance for
lending-related commitments is established to cover probable credit
losses inherent in the lending-related commitments portfolio as of the
balance sheet date.
The allowance for credit losses includes a formula-based component,
an asset-specific component, and a component related to PCI loans.
The determination of each of these components involves significant
judgment on a number of matters. For further information on these
components, areas of judgment and methodologies used in establishing
the Firm’s allowance for credit losses, refer to Allowance for credit
losses on pages 120–122 and Note 13.
Allowance for credit losses sensitivity
The Firm’s allowance for credit losses is sensitive to numerous factors,
which may differ depending on the portfolio. Changes in economic
conditions or in the Firm’s assumptions and estimates could affect its
estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio at the
balance sheet date. The Firm uses its best judgment to assess these
economic conditions and loss data in estimating the allowance for
credit losses and these estimates are subject to periodic refinement
based on changes to underlying external or Firm-specific historical
data. Refer to Note 13 for further discussion.
To illustrate the potential magnitude of certain alternate judgments, the
Firm estimates that changes in the following inputs would have the
following effects on the Firm’s modeled credit loss estimates as of
December 31, 2018, without consideration of any offsetting or
correlated effects of other inputs in the Firm’s allowance for loan
losses: •A combined 5% decline in housing prices and a 100 basis point
increase in unemployment rates from current levels could imply:
◦an increase to modeled credit loss estimates of approximately
$425 million for PCI loans.
◦an increase to modeled annual credit loss estimates of
approximately $50 million for residential real estate loans,
excluding PCI loans.
•For credit card loans, a 100 basis point increase in unemployment
rates from current levels could imply an increase to modeled annual
credit loss estimates of approximately $875 million.
•An increase in probability of default (“PD”) factors consistent with
a one-notch downgrade in the Firm’s internal risk ratings for its
entire wholesale loan portfolio could imply an increase in the
Firm’s modeled credit loss estimates of approximately $1.6 billion.
•A 100 basis point increase in estimated loss given default (“LGD”)
for the Firm’s entire wholesale loan portfolio could imply an
increase in the Firm’s modeled credit loss estimates of
approximately $175 million.
The purpose of these sensitivity analyses is to provide an indication of
the isolated impacts of hypothetical alternative assumptions on
modeled loss estimates. The changes in the inputs presented above are
not intended to imply management’s expectation of future deterioration
of those risk factors. In addition, these analyses are not intended to
estimate changes in the overall allowance for loan losses, which would
also be influenced by the judgment management applies to the
modeled loss estimates to reflect the uncertainty and imprecision of
these modeled loss estimates based on then-current circumstances and
conditions.
It is difficult to estimate how potential changes in specific factors
might affect the overall allowance for credit losses because
management considers a variety of factors and inputs in estimating the
allowance for credit losses. Changes in these factors and inputs may
not occur at the same rate and may not be consistent across all
geographies or product types, and changes in factors may be
directionally inconsistent, such that improvement in one factor may
offset deterioration in other factors. In addition, it is difficult to predict
how changes in specific economic conditions or assumptions could
affect borrower behavior or other factors considered by management in
estimating the allowance for credit losses. Given the process the Firm
follows and the judgments made in evaluating the risk factors related
to its loss estimates, management believes that its current estimate of
the allowance for credit losses is appropriate.
Fair value
JPMorgan Chase carries a portion of its assets and liabilities at fair
value. The majority of such assets and liabilities are measured at fair
value on a recurring basis, including, derivatives and structured note
products. Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a
nonrecurring basis, including certain mortgage, home equity and other
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  141
Management’ s discussion and analysis
loans, where the carrying value is based on the fair value of the
underlying collateral.
Assets measured at fair value
The following table includes the Firm’s assets measured at fair value
and the portion of such assets that are classified within level 3 of the
valuation hierarchy. For further information, refer to Note 2.
December 31, 2018
(in billions, except ratios)Total assets at fair
valueTotal level 3
assets
Trading debt and equity instruments $ 359.5 $ 4.2
Derivative receivables(a) 54.2 5.8
Trading assets 413.7 10.0
AFS securities 230.4 —
Loans 3.2 0.1
MSRs 6.1 6.1
Other 27.2 1.0
Total assets measured at fair value on a
recurring basis 680.6 17.2
Total assets measured at fair value on a
nonrecurring basis 1.4 1.1
Total assets measured at fair value $ 682.0 $ 18.3
Total Firm assets $ 2,622.5 
Level 3 assets as a percentage of total Firm
assets(a)   0.7%
Level 3 assets as a percentage of total Firm
assets at fair value(a)   2.7%
(a)For purposes of the table above, the derivative receivables total reflects the impact of netting
adjustments; however, the $5.8 billion of derivative receivables classified as level 3 does not
reflect the netting adjustment as such netting is not relevant to a presentation based on the
transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset. The level 3 balances would be reduced if
netting were applied, including the netting benefit associated with cash collateral.
Valuation
Details of the Firm’s processes for determining fair value are set out in
Note 2. Estimating fair value requires the application of judgment. The
type and level of judgment required is largely dependent on the amount
of observable market information available to the Firm. For
instruments valued using internally developed valuation models and
other valuation techniques that use significant unobservable inputs and
are therefore classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy,
judgments used to estimate fair value are more significant than those
required when estimating the fair value of instruments classified within
levels 1 and 2.
In arriving at an estimate of fair value for an instrument within level 3,
management must first determine the appropriate valuation technique
to use. Second, the lack of observability of certain significant inputs
requires management to assess all relevant empirical data in deriving
valuation inputs including, for example, transaction details, yield
curves, interest rates, prepayment rates, default rates, volatilities,
correlations, equity or debt prices, valuations of comparable
instruments, foreign exchange rates and credit curves. For further
discussion of the valuation of level 3 instruments, including
unobservable inputs used, refer to Note 2.
For instruments classified in levels 2 and 3, management judgment
must be applied to assess the appropriate level of valuation
adjustments to reflect counterparty credit quality, the Firm’s creditworthiness, market funding rates, liquidity
considerations, unobservable parameters, and for portfolios that meet
specified criteria, the size of the net open risk position. The judgments
made are typically affected by the type of product and its specific
contractual terms, and the level of liquidity for the product or within
the market as a whole. For a further discussion of valuation
adjustments applied by the Firm, refer to Note 2.
Imprecision in estimating unobservable market inputs or other factors
can affect the amount of gain or loss recorded for a particular position.
Furthermore, while the Firm believes its valuation methods are
appropriate and consistent with those of other market participants, the
methods and assumptions used reflect management judgment and may
vary across the Firm’s businesses and portfolios.
The Firm uses various methodologies and assumptions in the
determination of fair value. The use of methodologies or assumptions
different than those used by the Firm could result in a different
estimate of fair value at the reporting date. For a detailed discussion of
the Firm’s valuation process and hierarchy, and its determination of
fair value for individual financial instruments, refer to Note 2.
Goodwill impairment
Under U.S. GAAP, goodwill must be allocated to reporting units and
tested for impairment at least annually. The Firm’s process and
methodology used to conduct goodwill impairment testing is described in
Note 15.
Management applies significant judgment when testing goodwill for
impairment. The goodwill associated with each business combination is
allocated to the related reporting units for goodwill impairment testing.
For the year ended December 31, 2018, the Firm reviewed current
economic conditions, business performance, estimated market cost of
equity, and projections of business performance for all its businesses.
Based upon such reviews, the Firm concluded that the goodwill allocated
to its reporting units was not impaired as of December 31, 2018. The fair
values of these reporting units exceeded their carrying values by
approximately 20% or higher and did not indicate a significant risk of
goodwill impairment based on current projections and valuations.
The projections for all of the Firm’s reporting units are consistent with
management’s current short-term business outlook assumptions, and in
the longer term, incorporate a set of macroeconomic assumptions and the
Firm’s best estimates of long-term growth and returns on equity of its
businesses. Where possible, the Firm uses third-party and peer data to
benchmark its assumptions and estimates.
Declines in business performance, increases in credit losses, increases in
capital requirements, as well as deterioration in economic or market
conditions, adverse regulatory or legislative changes or increases in the
estimated market cost of equity, could cause the estimated fair values of
the Firm’s reporting units or their associated goodwill to decline in the
future, which could result in a material impairment charge to earnings in
a future period related to some portion of the associated goodwill.
For additional information on goodwill, refer to Note 15.
142  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Credit card rewards liability
JPMorgan Chase offers credit cards with various rewards programs
which allow cardholders to earn rewards points based on their account
activity and the terms and conditions of the rewards program.
Generally, there are no limits on the points that an eligible cardholder
can earn, nor do they expire, and these points can be redeemed for a
variety of rewards, including cash (predominantly in the form of
account credits), gift cards and travel. The Firm maintains a rewards
liability which represents the estimated cost of rewards points earned
and expected to be redeemed by cardholders. The rewards liability is
sensitive to various assumptions, including cost per point and
redemption rates for each of the various rewards programs, which are
evaluated periodically. The liability is accrued as the cardholder earns
the benefit and is reduced when the cardholder redeems points. This
liability was $5.8 billion and $4.9 billion at December 31, 2018 and
2017, respectively, and is recorded in accounts payable and other
liabilities on the Consolidated balance sheets.
Income taxes
JPMorgan Chase is subject to the income tax laws of the various
jurisdictions in which it operates, including U.S. federal, state and
local, and non-U.S. jurisdictions. These laws are often complex and
may be subject to different interpretations. To determine the financial
statement impact of accounting for income taxes, including the
provision for income tax expense and unrecognized tax benefits,
JPMorgan Chase must make assumptions and judgments about how to
interpret and apply these complex tax laws to numerous transactions
and business events, as well as make judgments regarding the timing
of when certain items may affect taxable income in the U.S. and non-
U.S. tax jurisdictions.
JPMorgan Chase’s interpretations of tax laws around the world are
subject to review and examination by the various taxing authorities in
the jurisdictions where the Firm operates, and disputes may occur
regarding its view on a tax position. These disputes over interpretations
with the various taxing authorities may be settled by audit,
administrative appeals or adjudication in the court systems of the tax
jurisdictions in which the Firm operates. JPMorgan Chase regularly
reviews whether it may be assessed additional income taxes as a result
of the resolution of these matters, and the Firm records additional
reserves as appropriate. In addition, the Firm may revise its estimate of
income taxes due to changes in income tax laws, legal interpretations,
and business strategies. It is possible that revisions in the Firm’s
estimate of income taxes may materially affect the Firm’s results of
operations in any reporting period.
The Firm’s provision for income taxes is composed of current and
deferred taxes. Deferred taxes arise from differences between assets
and liabilities measured for financial reporting versus income tax
return purposes. Deferred tax assets are recognized if, in
management’s judgment, their realizability is determined to be more
likely than not. The Firm has also recognized deferred tax assets in
connection with certain tax attributes, including NOLs. The Firm
performs regular reviews to ascertain whether its deferred tax assets
are realizable. These reviews include management’s estimates and assumptions regarding future taxable
income, which also incorporates various tax planning strategies,
including strategies that may be available to utilize NOLs before they
expire. In connection with these reviews, if it is determined that a
deferred tax asset is not realizable, a valuation allowance is
established. The valuation allowance may be reversed in a subsequent
reporting period if the Firm determines that, based on revised estimates
of future taxable income or changes in tax planning strategies, it is
more likely than not that all or part of the deferred tax asset will
become realizable. As of December 31, 2018, management has
determined it is more likely than not that the Firm will realize its
deferred tax assets, net of the existing valuation allowance.
Prior to December 31, 2017, U.S. federal income taxes had not been
provided on the undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S.
subsidiaries, to the extent that such earnings had been reinvested
abroad for an indefinite period of time. The Firm is no longer
maintaining the indefinite reinvestment assertion on the undistributed
earnings of those non-U.S. subsidiaries in light of the enactment of the
TCJA. The U.S. federal and state and local income taxes associated
with the undistributed and previously untaxed earnings of those non-
U.S. subsidiaries was included in the deemed repatriation charge
recorded as of December 31, 2017. The Firm will recognize any taxes
it may incur on global intangible low tax income as income tax
expense in the period in which the tax is incurred.
The Firm adjusts its unrecognized tax benefits as necessary when
additional information becomes available. Uncertain tax positions that
meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold are measured to
determine the amount of benefit to recognize. An uncertain tax
position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that management
believes is more likely than not to be realized upon settlement. It is
possible that the reassessment of JPMorgan Chase’s unrecognized tax
benefits may have a material impact on its effective income tax rate in
the period in which the reassessment occurs.
The income tax expense for the current year includes a change in
estimate recorded under SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (SAB
118) resulting from the enactment of the TCJA. The accounting under
SAB 118 is complete.
For additional information on income taxes, refer to Note 24.
Litigation reserves
For a description of the significant estimates and judgments associated
with establishing litigation reserves, refer to
Note 29.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  143
Management’ s discussion and analysis
ACCOUNTING AND REPOR TING DEVELOPMENTS
Financial Accounting Standards Board (“F ASB”) Standards Adopted during 2018
Standard  Summary of guidance Effects on financial statements
Revenue recognition
– revenue from
contracts with
customers
Issued May 2014
  • Requires that revenue from contracts with
customers be recognized upon transfer of
control of a good or service in the amount
of consideration expected to be received.
 • Changes the accounting for certain
contract costs, including whether they may
be of fset against revenue in the
Consolidated statements of income, and
requires additional disclosures about
revenue and contract costs. • Adopted January 1, 2018.
 • For further information, refer to Note 1.
Recognition and
measurement of
financial assets and
financial liabilities
Issued January 2016
  • Requires that certain equity instruments be
measured at fair value, with changes in
fair value recognized in earnings.
 • Provides a measurement alternative for
equity securities without readily
determinable fair values to be measured at
cost less impairment (if any), plus or
minus observable price changes from an
identical or similar investment of the same
issuer . Any such price changes are
reflected in earnings beginning in the
period of adoption. • Adopted January 1, 2018.
 • For further information, refer to Note 1.
Classification of
certain cash receipts
and cash payments in
the statement of cash
flows
Issued August 2016
  • Provides tar geted amendments to the
classification of certain cash flows,
including the treatment of settlement
payments for zero coupon debt
instruments and distributions received
from equity method investments. • Adopted January 1, 2018.
 • The adoption of the guidance had no material impact as the Firm was either in
compliance with the amendments or the amounts to which it was applied were
immaterial.
Treatment of
restricted cash on the
statement of cash
flows
Issued November
2016
  • Requires restricted cash to be combined
with unrestricted cash when reconciling
the beginning and ending cash balances on
the Consolidated statements of cash flows.
 • Requires additional disclosures to
supplement the Consolidated statements of
cash flows. • Adopted January 1, 2018
 • For further information, refer to Note 1.
144  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
FASB Standards Adopted during 2018 (continued)
Standard Summary of guidance Effects on financial statements
Definition of a
business
Issued January 2017
  • Narrows the definition of a business and
clarifies that, to be considered a business,
substantially all of the fair value of the
gross assets acquired (or disposed of) may
not be concentrated in a single identifiable
asset or a group of similar assets.
 • In addition, a business must now include,
at a minimum, an input and a substantive
process that together significantly
contribute to the ability to create outputs. • Adopted January 1, 2018.
 • The adoption of the guidance had no impact because it is applied prospectively .
Subsequent to adoption, fewer transactions will be treated as acquisitions or dispositions
of a business.
Presentation of net
periodic pension cost
and net periodic
postretirement benefit
cost
Issued Mar ch 2017
  • Requires the service cost component of net
periodic pension and postretirement
benefit cost to be reported separately in
the Consolidated statements of income
from the other cost components. • Adopted January 1, 2018.
 • For further information, refer to Note 1.
Premium
amortization on
purchased callable
debt securities
Issued Mar ch 2017
  • Requires amortization of premiums to the
earliest call date on certain debt securities. • Adopted January 1, 2018.
 • For further information, refer to Note 1.
Hedge accounting
Issued August 2017
  • Aligns the accounting with the economics
of the risk management activities.
 • Expands the ability for certain hedges of
interest rate risk to qualify for hedge
accounting.
 • Allows recognition of inef fectiveness in
cash flow hedges and net investment
hedges in OCI.
 • Permits an election at adoption to transfer
certain investment securities classified as
held-to-maturity to available-for -sale.
 • Simplifies hedge documentation
requirements. • Adopted January 1, 2018.
 • For further information, refer to Note 1.
Reclassification of
certain tax ef fects
from AOCI
Issued February
2018    • Permits reclassification of the income tax
effects of the TCJA  on items within AOCI
to retained earnings so that the tax ef fects
of items within AOCI reflect the
appropriate tax rate. • Adopted January 1, 2018.
 • For further information, refer to Note 1.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  145
•
•
•Management’ s discussion and analysis
FASB Standards Issued but not adopted as of December  31, 2018
Standard Summary of guidance Effects on financial statements
Leases
Issued February 2016
  • Requires lessees to recognize all leases
longer than twelve months on the
Consolidated balance sheets as a lease
liability with a corresponding right-of-use
asset.
 • Requires lessees and lessors to classify
most leases using principles similar to
existing lease accounting, but eliminates
the “bright line” classification tests.
 • Expands qualitative and quantitative
leasing disclosures. • Adopted January 1, 2019.
 • The Firm elected the practical expedient to adopt and implement the new lease guidance
as of January 1, 2019 through a cumulative-ef fect adjustment without revising prior
comparative periods. Upon adoption, the Firm recognized lease right-of-use (“ROU”)
assets and lease liabilities on the Consolidated balance sheet of $8.1 billion and $8.2
billion, respectively . The impact to the Firm’ s CET1 capital ratio was a reduction of
approximately 6 bps. The adoption of the new lease guidance did not have a material
impact on the Firm’ s Consolidated statement of income.
  • The Firm elected the available practical expedients to not reassess whether existing
contracts contain a lease or whether classification or unamortized initial lease costs
would be dif ferent under the new lease guidance.
Financial instruments
– credit losses
Issued June 2016
  • Replaces existing incurred loss impairment
guidance and establishes a single
allowance framework for financial assets
carried at amortized cost, which will
reflect management’ s estimate of credit
losses over the full remaining expected
life of the financial assets and will
consider expected future changes in
macroeconomic conditions.
 • Eliminates existing guidance for PCI
loans, and requires recognition of the
nonaccretable dif ference as an increase to
the allowance for expected credit losses on
financial assets purchased with more than
insignificant credit deterioration since
origination, which will be of fset by an
increase in the recorded investment of the
related loans.
 • Amends existing impairment guidance for
AFS securities to incorporate an
allowance, which will allow for reversals
of credit impairments in the event that the
credit of an issuer improves.
 • Requires a cumulative-ef fect adjustment to
retained earnings as of the beginning of
the reporting period of adoption. • Required ef fective date: January 1, 2020. (a)
 • The Firm has established a Firmwide, cross-discipline governance structure, which
provides implementation oversight. The Firm continues to test and refine its current
expected credit loss models that satisfy the requirements of the new standard. This
review and testing, as well as ef forts to meet expanded disclosure requirements, will
extend through the remainder of 2019.  
The Firm expects that the allowance related to the Firm’ s loans and commitments will
increase as it will cover credit losses over the full remaining expected life of the portfolios.
The Firm currently intends to estimate losses over a two-year forecast period using the
weighted-average of a range of macroeconomic scenarios (established on a Firmwide
basis), and then revert to longer term historical loss experience to estimate losses over
more extended periods.
The Firm currently expects the increase in the allowance to be in the range of $4-6
billion, primarily driven by Card. This estimate is subject to further refinement based on
continuing reviews and approvals of models, methodologies and judgments. The ultimate
impact will depend upon the nature and characteristics of the Firm’ s portfolio at the
adoption date, the macroeconomic conditions and forecasts at that date, and other
management judgments.
The Firm plans to adopt the new guidance on January 1, 2020.
Goodwill
Issued January 2017
  • Requires an impairment loss to be
recognized when the estimated fair value
of a reporting unit falls below its carrying
value.
 • Eliminates the second condition in the
current guidance that requires an
impairment loss to be recognized only if
the estimated implied fair value of the
goodwill is below its carrying value. • Required ef fective date: January 1, 2020. (a)
 • Based on current impairment test results, the Firm does not expect a material ef fect on
the Consolidated Financial Statements. However , the impact of the new accounting
guidance will depend on the performance of the reporting units and the market
conditions at the time of adoption.
 • After adoption, the guidance may result in more frequent goodwill impairment losses due
to the removal of the second condition.
 • The Firm plans to adopt the new guidance on January 1, 2020.
(a)Early adoption is permitted.
146  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
FOR WARD-LOOKING ST ATEMENTS
From time to time, the Firm has made and will make forward-looking
statements. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do
not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Forward-looking
statements often use words such as “anticipate,” “target,” “expect,”
“estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “goal,” “believe,” or other words of
similar meaning. Forward-looking statements provide JPMorgan
Chase’s current expectations or forecasts of future events,
circumstances, results or aspirations. JPMorgan Chase’s disclosures in
this 2018 Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The
Firm also may make forward-looking statements in its other
documents filed or furnished with the SEC. In addition, the Firm’s
senior management may make forward-looking statements orally to
investors, analysts, representatives of the media and others.
All forward-looking statements are, by their nature, subject to risks and
uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Firm’s control. JPMorgan
Chase’s actual future results may differ materially from those set forth
in its forward-looking statements. While there is no assurance that any
list of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is complete, below are
certain factors which could cause actual results to differ from those in
the forward-looking statements:
•Local, regional and global business, economic and political
conditions and geopolitical events;
•Changes in laws and regulatory requirements, including capital and
liquidity requirements affecting the Firm’s businesses, and the
ability of the Firm to address those requirements;
•Heightened regulatory and governmental oversight and scrutiny of
JPMorgan Chase’s business practices, including dealings with retail
customers;
•Changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws;
•Changes in income tax laws and regulations;
•Securities and capital markets behavior, including changes in
market liquidity and volatility;
•Changes in investor sentiment or consumer spending or savings
behavior;
•Ability of the Firm to manage effectively its capital and liquidity,
including approval of its capital plans by banking regulators;
•Changes in credit ratings assigned to the Firm or its subsidiaries;
•Damage to the Firm’s reputation;
•Ability of the Firm to appropriately address social and
environmental concerns that may arise from its business activities;
•Ability of the Firm to deal effectively with an economic slowdown
or other economic or market disruption;
•Technology changes instituted by the Firm, its counterparties or
competitors; •The effectiveness of the Firm’s control agenda;
•Ability of the Firm to develop or discontinue products and services,
and the extent to which products or services previously sold by the
Firm (including but not limited to mortgages and asset-backed
securities) require the Firm to incur liabilities or absorb losses not
contemplated at their initiation or origination;
•Acceptance of the Firm’s new and existing products and services
by the marketplace and the ability of the Firm to innovate and to
increase market share;
•Ability of the Firm to attract and retain qualified employees;
•Ability of the Firm to control expenses;
•Competitive pressures;
•Changes in the credit quality of the Firm’s customers and
counterparties;
•Adequacy of the Firm’s risk management framework, disclosure
controls and procedures and internal control over financial
reporting;
•Adverse judicial or regulatory proceedings;
•Changes in applicable accounting policies, including the
introduction of new accounting standards;
•Ability of the Firm to determine accurate values of certain assets
and liabilities;
•Occurrence of natural or man-made disasters or calamities or
conflicts and the Firm’s ability to deal effectively with disruptions
caused by the foregoing;
•Ability of the Firm to maintain the security of its financial,
accounting, technology, data processing and other operational
systems and facilities;
•Ability of the Firm to withstand disruptions that may be caused by
any failure of its operational systems or those of third parties;
•Ability of the Firm to effectively defend itself against cyberattacks
and other attempts by unauthorized parties to access information of
the Firm or its customers or to disrupt the Firm’s systems; and
•The other risks and uncertainties detailed in Part I, Item 1A: Risk
Factors in the Firm’s 2018 Form 10-K.
Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Firm
speak only as of the date they are made, and JPMorgan Chase does not
undertake to update forward-looking statements. The reader should,
however, consult any further disclosures of a forward-looking nature
the Firm may make in any subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, or Current Reports on Form 8-K.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  147
Management’ s report on internal contr ol over  financial r eporting
Management of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“JPMorgan Chase” or the
“Firm”) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the
Firm’s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons
performing similar functions, and effected by JPMorgan Chase’s Board
of Directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.
JPMorgan Chase’s internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of
records, that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the Firm’s assets; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the Firm are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
JPMorgan Chase’s management and directors; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Firm’s assets that
could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of
any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate. Management has completed an assessment of the
effectiveness of the Firm’s internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2018. In making the assessment, management used
the “Internal Control — Integrated Framework” (“COSO 2013”)
promulgated by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (“COSO”). Based upon the assessment performed, management concluded that as
of December 31, 2018, JPMorgan Chase’s internal control over
financial reporting was effective based upon the COSO 2013
framework. Additionally, based upon management’s assessment, the
Firm determined that there were no material weaknesses in its internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018.
The effectiveness of the Firm’s internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2018, has been audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears herein.
James Dimon
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Marianne Lake
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
February 26, 2019
148  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Report of Independent Register ed Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors and Shar eholders of JPMorgan Chase &
Co.:
Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over
Financial Reporting
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
JPMor gan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries (the “Firm”) as of December
31, 2018 and 2017, and the related consolidated statements of income,
comprehensive income, changes in stockholders’  equity and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2018,
including the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated
financial statements”). We also have audited the Firm’ s internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, based on criteria
established in Internal Contr ol - Integrated Framework  (2013) issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Or ganizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO).
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly , in all material respects, the financial position of the Firm
as of  December 31, 2018  and 2017, and the results of its operations and
its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2018  in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Firm
maintained, in all material respects, ef fective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2018 , based on criteria
established in Internal Contr ol – Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by
the COSO.
Basis for Opinions
The Firm’ s management is responsible for these consolidated financial
statements, for maintaining ef fective internal control over financial
reporting, and for its assessment of the ef fectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’ s
report on internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is
to express opinions on the Firm’ s consolidated financial statements and
on the Firm’ s internal control over financial reporting based on our
audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and
are required to be independent with respect to the Firm in accordance
with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the
PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial
statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or
fraud, and whether ef fective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing
procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the
consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and
performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures
included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also
included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Our audit of
internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the
risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the
design and operating ef fectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures
as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial
Reporting
A company’ s internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company’ s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’ s assets that could have a
material ef fect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of
any evaluation of ef fectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.
February 26, 2019
We have served as the Firm’ s auditor since 1965.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Ÿ  300 Madison Avenue Ÿ  New York, NY 10017
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  149
Consolidated statements of income
Year ended December 31, (in millions, except per share data) 2018 2017 2016
Revenue
Investment banking fees $ 7,550 $ 7,412 $ 6,572
Principal transactions 12,059 11,347 11,566
Lending- and deposit-related fees 6,052 5,933 5,774
Asset management, administration and commissions 17,118 16,287 15,364
Investment securities gains/(losses) (395) (66) 141
Mortgage fees and related income 1,254 1,616 2,491
Card income 4,989 4,433 4,779
Other income 5,343 3,646 3,799
Noninterest revenue 53,970 50,608 50,486
Interest income 77,442 64,372 55,901
Interest expense 22,383 14,275 9,818
Net interest income 55,059 50,097 46,083
Total net revenue 109,029 100,705 96,569
Provision for credit losses 4,871 5,290 5,361
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense 33,117 31,208 30,203
Occupancy expense 3,952 3,723 3,638
Technology, communications and equipment expense 8,802 7,715 6,853
Professional and outside services 8,502 7,890 7,526
Marketing 3,290 2,900 2,897
Other expense 5,731 6,079 5,555
Total noninterest expense 63,394 59,515 56,672
Income before income tax expense 40,764 35,900 34,536
Income tax expense 8,290 11,459 9,803
Net income $ 32,474 $ 24,441 $ 24,733
Net income applicable to common stockholders $ 30,709 $ 22,567 $ 22,834
Net income per common share data
Basic earnings per share $ 9.04 $ 6.35 $ 6.24
Diluted earnings per share 9.00 6.31 6.19
Weighted-average basic shares 3,396.4 3,551.6 3,658.8
Weighted-average diluted shares 3,414.0 3,576.8 3,690.0
Effective January 1, 2018, the Firm adopted several new accounting standards. Certain of the new accounting standards were applied retrospectively and, accordingly, prior period
amounts were revised. For additional information, refer to Note 1.
The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
150  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Consolidated statements of compr ehensive income
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Net income $ 32,474 $ 24,441 $ 24,733
Other comprehensive income/(loss), after–tax
Unrealized gains/(losses) on investment securities (1,858) 640 (1,105)
Translation adjustments, net of hedges 20 (306) (2)
Fair value hedges (107) NA NA
Cash flow hedges (201) 176 (56)
Defined benefit pension and OPEB plans (373) 738 (28)
DVA on fair value option elected liabilities 1,043 (192) (330)
Total other comprehensive income/(loss), after–tax (1,476) 1,056 (1,521)
Comprehensive income $ 30,998 $ 25,497 $ 23,212
Effective January 1, 2018, the Firm adopted several new accounting standards. For additional information, refer to Note 1.
The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  151
Consolidated balance sheets
December 31, (in millions, except share data) 2018 2017
Assets
Cash and due from banks $ 22,324 $ 25,898
Deposits with banks 256,469 405,406
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements (included 13,235 and $14,732 at fair value) 321,588 198,422
Securities borrowed (included $5,105 and $3,049 at fair value) 111,995 105,112
Trading assets (included assets pledged of $89,073 and $109,887) 413,714 381,844
Investment securities (included $230,394 and $202,225 at fair value and assets pledged of $11,432 and $17,969) 261,828 249,958
Loans (included $3,151 and $2,508 at fair value) 984,554 930,697
Allowance for loan losses (13,445) (13,604)
Loans, net of allowance for loan losses 971,109 917,093
Accrued interest and accounts receivable 73,200 67,729
Premises and equipment 14,934 14,159
Goodwill, MSRs and other intangible assets 54,349 54,392
Other assets (included $9,630 and $16,128 at fair value and assets pledged of $3,457 and $7,980) 121,022 113,587
Total assets(a) $ 2,622,532 $ 2,533,600
Liabilities
Deposits (included $23,217 and $21,321 at fair value) $ 1,470,666 $ 1,443,982
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements (included $935 and $697 at fair value) 182,320 158,916
Short-term borrowings (included $7,130 and $9,191 at fair value) 69,276 51,802
Trading liabilities 144,773 123,663
Accounts payable and other liabilities (included $3,269 and $9,208 at fair value) 196,710 189,383
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs (included $28 and $45 at fair value) 20,241 26,081
Long-term debt (included $54,886 and $47,519 at fair value) 282,031 284,080
Total liabilities(a) 2,366,017 2,277,907
Commitments and contingencies (refer to Notes 27, 28 and 29)
Stockholders’ equity
Preferred stock ($1 par value; authorized 200,000,000 shares: issued 2,606,750 shares) 26,068 26,068
Common stock ($1 par value; authorized 9,000,000,000 shares; issued 4,104,933,895 shares) 4,105 4,105
Additional paid-in capital 89,162 90,579
Retained earnings 199,202 177,676
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (1,507) (119)
Shares held in restricted stock units (“RSU”) trust, at cost (472,953 shares) (21) (21)
Treasury stock, at cost (829,167,674 and 679,635,064 shares) (60,494) (42,595)
Total stockholders’ equity 256,515 255,693
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 2,622,532 $ 2,533,600
Effective January 1, 2018, the Firm adopted several new accounting standards. Certain of the new accounting standards were applied retrospectively and, accordingly, prior period
amounts were revised. For additional information, refer to Note 1.
(a)The following table presents information on assets and liabilities related to VIEs that are consolidated by the Firm at December 31, 2018 and 2017. The assets of the consolidated
VIEs are used to settle the liabilities of those entities. The holders of the beneficial interests do not have recourse to the general credit of JPMorgan Chase. The assets and liabilities
in the table below include third-party assets and liabilities of consolidated VIEs and exclude intercompany balances that eliminate in consolidation. For a further discussion, refer to
Note 14.
December 31, (in millions) 2018  2017
Assets    
Trading assets $ 1,966 $ 1,449
Loans 59,456 68,995
All other assets 1,013 2,674
Total assets $ 62,435 $ 73,118
Liabilities    
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs $ 20,241 $ 26,081
All other liabilities 312 349
Total liabilities $ 20,553 $ 26,430
The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
152  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Consolidated statements of changes in stockholders’  equity
Year ended December 31, (in millions, except per share data)  2018 2017 2016
Preferred stock     
Balance at January 1  $ 26,068 $ 26,068 $ 26,068
Issuance  1,696 1,258 —
Redemption  (1,696) (1,258) —
Balance at December 31  26,068 26,068 26,068
Common stock     
Balance at January 1 and December 31  4,105 4,105 4,105
Additional paid-in capital     
Balance at January 1  90,579 91,627 92,500
Shares issued and commitments to issue common stock for employee share-based compensation awards, and related tax effects (738) (734) (334)
Other  (679) (314) (539)
Balance at December 31  89,162 90,579 91,627
Retained earnings     
Balance at January 1  177,676 162,440 146,420
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles  (183) — (154)
Net income  32,474 24,441 24,733
Dividends declared:     
Preferred stock  (1,551) (1,663) (1,647)
Common stock ($2.72, $2.12 and $1.88 per share for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively)  (9,214) (7,542) (6,912)
Balance at December 31  199,202 177,676 162,440
Accumulated other comprehensive income     
Balance at January 1  (119) (1,175) 192
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles  88 — 154
Other comprehensive income/(loss), after-tax  (1,476) 1,056 (1,521)
Balance at December 31  (1,507) (119) (1,175)
Shares held in RSU Trust, at cost     
Balance at January 1 and December 31  (21) (21) (21)
Treasury stock, at cost     
Balance at January 1  (42,595) (28,854) (21,691)
Repurchase  (19,983) (15,410) (9,082)
Reissuance  2,084 1,669 1,919
Balance at December 31  (60,494) (42,595) (28,854)
Total stockholders’ equity  $ 256,515 $ 255,693 $ 254,190
Effective January 1, 2018, the Firm adopted several new accounting standards. For additional information, refer to Note 1.
The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  153
Consolidated statements of cash flows
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 2018  2017 2016
Operating activities   
Net income $ 32,474 $ 24,441 $ 24,733
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities:   
Provision for credit losses 4,871 5,290 5,361
Depreciation and amortization 7,791 6,179 5,478
Deferred tax expense 1,721 2,312 4,651
Other 2,717 2,136 1,799
Originations and purchases of loans held-for-sale (102,141) (94,628) (61,107)
Proceeds from sales, securitizations and paydowns of loans held-for-sale 93,453 93,270 60,196
Net change in:   
Trading assets (38,371) 5,673 (20,007)
Securities borrowed (6,861) (8,653) 2,313
Accrued interest and accounts receivable (5,849) (15,868) (5,815)
Other assets (8,833) 3,982 (4,176)
Trading liabilities 18,290 (26,256) 5,198
Accounts payable and other liabilities 14,630 (16,508) 5,087
Other operating adjustments 295 7,803 (1,827)
Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities 14,187 (10,827) 21,884
Investing activities   
Net change in:   
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements (123,201) 31,448 (17,468)
Held-to-maturity securities:   
Proceeds from paydowns and maturities 2,945 4,563 6,218
Purchases (9,368) (2,349) (143)
Available-for-sale securities:   
Proceeds from paydowns and maturities 37,401 56,117 65,950
Proceeds from sales 46,067 90,201 48,592
Purchases (95,091) (105,309) (123,959)
Proceeds from sales and securitizations of loans held-for-investment 29,826 15,791 15,429
Other changes in loans, net (81,586) (61,650) (80,996)
All other investing activities, net (4,986) (563) (2,825)
Net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities (197,993) 28,249 (89,202)
Financing activities   
Net change in:   
Deposits 26,728 57,022 97,336
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements 23,415 (6,739) 13,007
Short-term borrowings 18,476 16,540 (2,461)
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs 1,712 (1,377) (5,707)
Proceeds from long-term borrowings 71,662 56,271 83,070
Payments of long-term borrowings (76,313) (83,079) (68,949)
Proceeds from issuance of preferred stock 1,696 1,258 —
Redemption of preferred stock (1,696) (1,258) —
Treasury stock repurchased (19,983) (15,410) (9,082)
Dividends paid (10,109) (8,993) (8,476)
All other financing activities, net (1,430) 407 (467)
Net cash provided by financing activities 34,158 14,642 98,271
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and due from banks and deposits with banks (2,863) 8,086 (1,482)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and due from banks and deposits with banks (152,511) 40,150 29,471
Cash and due from banks and deposits with banks at the beginning of the period 431,304 391,154 361,683
Cash and due from banks and deposits with banks at the end of the period $ 278,793 $ 431,304 $ 391,154
Cash interest paid $ 21,152 $ 14,153 $ 9,508
Cash income taxes paid, net 3,542 4,325 2,405
Effective January 1, 2018, the Firm adopted several new accounting standards. Certain of the new accounting standards were applied retrospectively and, accordingly, prior period
amounts were revised. For additional information, refer to Note 1.
The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
154  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Note 1 – Basis of pr esentation
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“JPMorgan Chase” or the “Firm”), a financial
holding company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a
leading global financial services firm and one of the largest banking
institutions in the U.S. with operations worldwide. The Firm is a leader
in investment banking, financial services for consumers and small
business, commercial banking, financial transaction processing and
asset management. For a discussion of the Firm’s business segments,
refer to Note 31.
The accounting and financial reporting policies of JPMorgan Chase
and its subsidiaries conform to U.S. GAAP. Additionally, where
applicable, the policies conform to the accounting and reporting
guidelines prescribed by regulatory authorities.
Certain amounts reported in prior periods have been reclassified to
conform with the current presentation.
Consolidation
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of
JPMorgan Chase and other entities in which the Firm has a controlling
financial interest. All material intercompany balances and transactions
have been eliminated.
Assets held for clients in an agency or fiduciary capacity by the Firm
are not assets of JPMorgan Chase and are not included on the
Consolidated balance sheets.
The Firm determines whether it has a controlling financial interest in
an entity by first evaluating whether the entity is a voting interest
entity or a variable interest entity.
Voting interest entities
Voting interest entities are entities that have sufficient equity and
provide the equity investors voting rights that enable them to make
significant decisions relating to the entity’s operations. For these types
of entities, the Firm’s determination of whether it has a controlling
interest is primarily based on the amount of voting equity interests
held. Entities in which the Firm has a controlling financial interest,
through ownership of the majority of the entities’ voting equity
interests, or through other contractual rights that give the Firm control,
are consolidated by the Firm.
Investments in companies in which the Firm has significant influence
over operating and financing decisions (but does not own a majority of
the voting equity interests) are accounted for (i) in accordance with the
equity method of accounting (which requires the Firm to recognize its
proportionate share of the entity’s net earnings), or (ii) at fair value if
the fair value option was elected. These investments are generally
included in other assets, with income or loss included in noninterest
revenue.
Certain Firm-sponsored asset management funds are structured as
limited partnerships or certain limited liability companies. For many of
these entities, the Firm is the general partner or managing member, but
the non-affiliated partners or members have the ability to remove the
Firm as the general partner or managing member without cause (i.e., kick-out rights), based on a simple majority vote, or the non-
affiliated partners or members have rights to participate in important
decisions. Accordingly, the Firm does not consolidate these voting
interest entities. However, in the limited cases where the non-
managing partners or members do not have substantive kick-out or
participating rights, the Firm evaluates the funds as VIEs and
consolidates the funds if the Firm is t h e general partner or managing
member and has a potentially significant interest.
The Firm’s investment companies and asset management funds have
investments in both publicly-held and privately-held entities, including
investments in buyouts, growth equity and venture opportunities.
These investments are accounted for under investment company
guidelines and, accordingly, irrespective of the percentage of equity
ownership interests held, are carried on the Consolidated balance
sheets at fair value, and are recorded in other assets, with income or
loss included in noninterest revenue. If consolidated, the Firm retains
such specialized investment company guidelines.
Variable interest entities
VIEs are entities that, by design, either (1) lack sufficient equity to
permit the entity to finance its activities without additional
subordinated financial support from other parties, or (2) have equity
investors that do not have the ability to make significant decisions
relating to the entity’s operations through voting rights, or do not have
the obligation to absorb the expected losses, or do not have the right to
receive the residual returns of the entity.
The most common type of VIE is an SPE. SPEs are commonly used in
securitization transactions in order to isolate certain assets and
distribute the cash flows from those assets to investors. The basic SPE
structure involves a company selling assets to the SPE; the SPE funds
the purchase of those assets by issuing securities to investors. The legal
documents that govern the transaction specify how the cash earned on
the assets must be allocated to the SPE’s investors and other parties
that have rights to those cash flows. SPEs are generally structured to
insulate investors from claims on the SPE’s assets by creditors of other
entities, including the creditors of the seller of the assets.
The primary beneficiary of a VIE (i.e., the party that has a controlling
financial interest) is required to consolidate the assets and liabilities of
the VIE. The primary beneficiary is the party that has both (1) the
power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact
the VIE’s economic performance; and (2) through its interests in the
VIE, the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits
from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE.
To assess whether the Firm has the power to direct the activities of a
VIE that most significantly impact the VIE’s economic performance,
the Firm considers all the facts and circumstances, including its role in
establishing the VIE and its ongoing rights and responsibilities. This
assessment
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  155
Notes to consolidated financial statements
includes, first, identifying the activities that most significantly impact
the VIE’s economic performance; and second, identifying which party,
if any, has power over those activities. In general, the parties that make
the most significant decisions affecting the VIE (such as asset
managers, collateral managers, servicers, or owners of call options or
liquidation rights over the VIE’s assets) or have the right to unilaterally
remove those decision-makers are deemed to have the power to direct
the activities of a VIE.
To assess whether the Firm has the obligation to absorb losses of the
VIE or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially
be significant to the VIE, the Firm considers all of its economic
interests, including debt and equity investments, servicing fees, and
derivatives or other arrangements deemed to be variable interests in the
VIE. This assessment requires that the Firm apply judgment in
determining whether these interests, in the aggregate, are considered
potentially significant to the VIE. Factors considered in assessing
significance include: the design of the VIE, including its capitalization
structure; subordination of interests; payment priority; relative share of
interests held across various classes within the VIE’s capital structure;
and the reasons why the interests are held by the Firm.
The Firm performs on-going reassessments of: (1) whether entities
previously evaluated under the majority voting-interest framework
have become VIEs, based on certain events, and are therefore subject
to the VIE consolidation framework; and (2) whether changes in the
facts and circumstances regarding the Firm’s involvement with a VIE
cause the Firm’s consolidation conclusion to change.
Revenue recognition
Interest income
The Firm records interest income on loans, debt securities, and other
debt instruments, generally on a level-yield basis, based on the
underlying contractual rate. For further discussion of interest income,
refer to Note 7.
Revenue from contracts with customers
JPMorgan Chase records noninterest revenue from certain contracts
with customers under ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with
customers, in investment banking fees, deposit-related fees, asset
management administration and commissions, and components of card
income. Under this guidance, revenue is recognized when the Firm’s
performance obligations are satisfied. For further discussion of the
Firm’s revenue from contracts with customers, refer to Note 6.
Principal transactions revenue
JPMorgan Chase carries a portion of its assets and liabilities at fair
value. Changes in fair value are reported primarily in principal
transactions revenue. For further discussion of fair value measurement,
refer to Notes 2 and 3. For further discussion of principal transactions
revenue, refer to Note 6. Use of estimates in the preparation of consolidated financial
statements
The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenue and expense, and
disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could be
different from these estimates.
Foreign currency translation
JPMorgan Chase revalues assets, liabilities, revenue and expense
denominated in non-U.S. currencies into U.S. dollars using applicable
exchange rates.
Gains and losses relating to translating functional currency financial
statements for U.S. reporting are included in OCI within stockholders’
equity. Gains and losses relating to nonfunctional currency
transactions, including non-U.S. operations where the functional
currency is the U.S. dollar, are reported in the Consolidated statements
of income.
Offsetting assets and liabilities
U.S. GAAP permits entities to present derivative receivables and
derivative payables with the same counterparty and the related cash
collateral receivables and payables on a net basis on the Consolidated
balance sheets when a legally enforceable master netting agreement
exists. U.S. GAAP also permits securities sold and purchased under
repurchase agreements and securities borrowed or loaned under
securities loan agreements to be presented net when specified
conditions are met, including the existence of a legally enforceable
master netting agreement. The Firm has elected to net such balances
when the specified conditions are met.
The Firm uses master netting agreements to mitigate counterparty
credit risk in certain transactions, including derivative contracts, resale,
repurchase, securities borrowed and securities loaned agreements. A
master netting agreement is a single agreement with a counterparty that
permits multiple transactions governed by that agreement to be
terminated or accelerated and settled through a single payment in a
single currency in the event of a default (e.g., bankruptcy, failure to
make a required payment or securities transfer or deliver collateral or
margin when due). Upon the exercise of derivatives termination rights
by the non-defaulting party (i) all transactions are terminated, (ii) all
transactions are valued and the positive values of “in the money”
transactions are netted against the negative values of “out of the
money” transactions and (iii) the only remaining payment obligation is
of one of the parties to pay the netted termination amount. Upon
exercise of default rights under repurchase agreements and securities
loan agreements in general (i) all transactions are terminated and
accelerated, (ii) all values of securities or cash held or to be delivered
are calculated, and all such sums are netted against each other and (iii)
the only remaining payment obligation is of one of the parties to pay
the netted termination amount.
156  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Typical master netting agreements for these types of transactions also
often contain a collateral/margin agreement that provides for a security
interest in, or title transfer of, securities or cash collateral/margin to the
party that has the right to demand margin (the “demanding party”).
The collateral/margin agreement typically requires a party to transfer
collateral/margin to the demanding party with a value equal to the
amount of the margin deficit on a net basis across all transactions
governed by the master netting agreement, less any threshold. The
collateral/margin agreement grants to the demanding party, upon
default by the counterparty, the right to set-off any amounts payable by
the counterparty against any posted collateral or the cash equivalent of
any posted collateral/margin. It also grants to the demanding party the
right to liquidate collateral/margin and to apply the proceeds to an
amount payable by the counterparty.
For further discussion of the Firm’s derivative instruments, refer to
Note 5. For further discussion of the Firm’s securities financing
agreements, refer to Note 11.
Statements of cash flows
For JPMorgan Chase’s Consolidated statements of cash flows, cash is
defined as those amounts included in cash and due from banks and
deposits with banks.
Accounting standards adopted January 1, 2018
Revenue recognition – revenue from contracts with customers
The adoption of this guidance requires gross presentation of certain costs
that were previously of fset against revenue. Adoption of the guidance
did not result in any material changes in the timing of the Firm’ s revenue
recognition. This guidance was adopted retrospectively and, accordingly ,
prior period amounts were revised, which resulted in an increase in both
noninterest revenue and noninterest expense. The Firm did not apply any
practical expedients. For additional information, refer to the table on
page 158 of this Note, and Note 6.
Recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial
liabilities
The adoption of this guidance requires that certain equity instruments be
measured at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in earnings.
The guidance also provides an alternative to measure equity securities
without readily determinable fair values at cost less impairment (if any),
plus or minus observable price changes from an identical or similar
investment of the same issuer (the “measurement alternative”).  The Firm
elected the measurement alternative for its qualifying equity securities
and the adoption of the guidance resulted in fair value gains of $505
million  which were recognized in other income in the first  quarter of
2018. For additional information, refer to Notes  2 and 10.
Premium amortization on purchased callable debt securities
The adoption of this guidance requires that premiums be amortized to
the earliest call date on certain debt securities. The adoption of this
guidance resulted in a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained
earnings and AOCI. For additional information, refer to the table below, and Notes
10 and 23.
Hedge accounting
The adoption of this guidance better aligns hedge accounting with the
economics of the Firm’s risk management activities. As permitted by
the guidance, the Firm also elected to transfer certain investment
securities from HTM to AFS. The adoption of this guidance resulted in
a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings and AOCI as a
result of the investment securities transfer and the revised guidance for
excluded components. For additional information, refer to the table
below, and Notes 5, 10 and 23.
Treatment of restricted cash on the statement of cash flows
The adoption of this guidance requires restricted cash to be combined
with unrestricted cash when reconciling the beginning and ending cash
balances on the Consolidated statements of cash flows. To align the
Consolidated balance sheets with the Consolidated statements of cash
flows, the Firm reclassified restricted cash into cash and due from
banks or deposits with banks. In addition, for the Firm’s Consolidated
statements of cash flows, cash is defined as those amounts included in
cash and due from banks and deposits with banks. This guidance was
applied retrospectively and, accordingly, prior period amounts have
been revised. For additional information, refer to the table below, and
Note 25.
Presentation of net periodic pension cost and net periodic
postretirement benefit cost
The adoption of this guidance requires the service cost component of
net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost
to be reported separately in the Consolidated statements of income
from the other cost components. This change was adopted
retrospectively and, accordingly, prior period amounts were revised,
which resulted in an increase in compensation expense and a reduction
in other expense. For additional information, refer to the table below,
and Note 8.
Reclassification of certain tax effects from AOCI
The adoption of this guidance permitted  the Firm to reclassify from
AOCI to retained earnings stranded tax ef fects due to the revaluation of
deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of changes in applicable tax
rates under the TCJA. The adoption of this guidance resulted in a
cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings and AOCI. For
additional information, refer to the table below, and Note 23.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  157
Notes to consolidated financial statements
The following tables present the prior period impact to the
Consolidated statements of income and the Consolidated balance
sheets from the retrospective adoption of the new accounting standards
in the first quarter of 2018:
Selected Consolidated statements of income data
Year ended
December 31, 2017 (in millions) Reported Revisions(a) Revised
Revenue  
Investment banking fees $ 7,248$ 164$ 7,412
Asset management, administration
and commissions 15,377 910 16,287
Other income 3,639 7 3,646
Total net revenue 99,624 1,081 100,705
Noninterest expense  
Compensation expense 31,009 199 31,208
Technology, communication and
equipment expense 7,706 9 7,715
Professional and outside services 6,840 1,050 7,890
Other expense 6,256 (177) 6,079
Total noninterest expense $ 58,434$ 1,081$ 59,515
Year ended
December 31, 2016 (in millions) Reported Revisions(a) Revised
Revenue  
Investment banking fees $ 6,448$ 124$ 6,572
Asset management, administration
and commissions 14,591 773 15,364
Other income 3,795 4 3,799
Total net revenue 95,668 901 96,569
Noninterest expense  
Compensation expense 29,979 224 30,203
Technology, communication and
equipment expense 6,846 7 6,853
Professional and outside services 6,655 871 7,526
Other expense 5,756 (201) 5,555
Total noninterest expense $ 55,771$ 901$ 56,672
(a)Revisions relate to revenue recognition and pension cost guidance.
Selected Consolidated balance sheets data
December 31, 2017
(in millions)
Reported Revisions(a) Revised
Assets  
Cash and due from banks $ 25,827$ 71$ 25,898
Deposits with banks 404,294 1,112 405,406
Other assets 114,770 (1,183) 113,587
Total assets $ 2,533,600$ —$ 2,533,600
(a)Revisions relate to the reclassification of restricted cash. The following table presents the adjustment to retained earnings and
AOCI as a result of the adoption of new accounting standards in the first
quarter of 2018:
Increase/(decrease) (in millions)Retained
earnings
AOCI
Premium amortization on purchased callable debt
securities $ (505)$ 261
Hedge accounting 34 115
Reclassification of certain tax effects from AOCI 288 (288)
Total $ (183)$ 88
Significant accounting policies
The following table identifies JPMorgan Chase’s other significant
accounting policies and the Note and page where a detailed description
of each policy can be found.
Fair value measurement Note 2 Page 159
Fair value option Note 3 Page 179
Derivative instruments Note 5 Page 184
Noninterest revenue Note 6 Page 198
Interest income and interest expense Note 7 Page 201
Pension and other postretirement employee benefit
plans Note 8 Page 202
Employee share-based incentives Note 9 Page 209
Investment securities Note 10 Page 21 1
Securities financing activities Note 1 1 Page 216
Loans Note 12 Page 219
Allowance for credit losses Note 13 Page 239
Variable interest entities Note 14 Page 244
Goodwill and Mortgage servicing rights Note 15 page 252
Premises and equipment Note 16 page 256
Long-term debt Note 19 page 257
Income taxes Note 24 page 264
Off–balance sheet lending-related financial
instruments, guarantees and other commitments Note 27 page 271
Litigation Note 29 page 278
158  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Note 2 – Fair value measur ement
JPMorgan Chase carries a portion of its assets and liabilities at fair
value. These assets and liabilities are predominantly carried at fair
value on a recurring basis (i.e., assets and liabilities that are measured
and reported at fair value on the Firm’s Consolidated balance sheets).
Certain assets (e.g., held-for-sale loans), liabilities and unfunded
lending-related commitments are measured at fair value on a
nonrecurring basis; that is, they are not measured at fair value on an
ongoing basis but are subject to fair value adjustments only in certain
circumstances (for example, when there is evidence of impairment).
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset
or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants at the measurement date. Fair value is based on quoted
market prices or inputs, where available. If prices or quotes are not
available, fair value is based on valuation models and other valuation
techniques that consider relevant transaction characteristics (such as
maturity) and use as inputs observable or unobservable market
parameters, including yield curves, interest rates, volatilities, equity or
debt prices, foreign exchange rates and credit curves. Valuation
adjustments may be made to ensure that financial instruments are
recorded at fair value, as described below.
The level of precision in estimating unobservable market inputs or
other factors can affect the amount of gain or loss recorded for a
particular position. Furthermore, while the Firm believes its valuation
methods are appropriate and consistent with those of other market
participants, the methods and assumptions used reflect management
judgment and may vary across the Firm’s businesses and portfolios.
The Firm uses various methodologies and assumptions in the
determination of fair value. The use of different methodologies or
assumptions by other market participants compared with those used by
the Firm could result in the Firm deriving a different estimate of fair
value at the reporting date.
Valuation process
Risk-taking functions are responsible for providing fair value estimates
for assets and liabilities carried on the Consolidated balance sheets at
fair value. The Firm’s VCG, which is part of the Firm’s Finance
function and independent of the risk-taking functions, is responsible
for verifying these estimates and determining any fair value
adjustments that may be required to ensure that the Firm’s positions
are recorded at fair value. The VGF is composed of senior finance and
risk executives and is responsible for overseeing the management of
risks arising from valuation activities conducted across the Firm. The
Firmwide VGF is chaired by the Firmwide head of the VCG (under the
direction of the Firm’s Controller), and includes sub-forums covering
the CIB, CCB, CB, AWM and certain corporate functions including
Treasury and CIO.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  159
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Price verification process
The VCG verifies fair value estimates provided by the risk-taking
functions by leveraging independently derived prices, valuation inputs
and other market data, where available. Where independent prices or
inputs are not available, the VCG performs additional review to ensure
the reasonableness of the estimates. The additional review may include
evaluating the limited market activity including client unwinds,
benchmarking valuation inputs to those used for similar instruments,
decomposing the valuation of structured instruments into individual
components, comparing expected to actual cash flows, reviewing profit
and loss trends, and reviewing trends in collateral valuation. There are
also additional levels of management review for more significant or
complex positions.
The VCG determines any valuation adjustments that may be required
to the estimates provided by the risk-taking functions. No adjustments
to quoted prices are applied for instruments classified within level 1 of
the fair value hierarchy (refer to below for further information on the
fair value hierarchy). For other positions, judgment is required to
assess the need for valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect
liquidity considerations, unobservable parameters, and, for certain
portfolios that meet specified criteria, the size of the net open risk
position. The determination of such adjustments follows a consistent
framework across the Firm:
•Liquidity valuation adjustments are considered where an
observable external price or valuation parameter exists but is of
lower reliability, potentially due to lower market activity. Liquidity
valuation adjustments are applied and determined based on current
market conditions. Factors that may be considered in determining
the liquidity adjustment include analysis of: (1) the estimated bid-
offer spread for the instrument being traded; (2) alternative pricing
points for similar instruments in active markets; and (3) the range
of reasonable values that the price or parameter could take.
•The Firm manages certain portfolios of financial instruments on the
basis of net open risk exposure and, as permitted by U.S. GAAP,
has elected to estimate the fair value of such portfolios on the basis
of a transfer of the entire net open risk position in an orderly
transaction. Where this is the case, valuation adjustments may be
necessary to reflect the cost of exiting a larger-than-normal market-
size net open risk position. Where applied, such adjustments are
based on factors that a relevant market participant would consider
in the transfer of the net open risk position, including the size of the
adverse market move that is likely to occur during the period
required to reduce the net open risk position to a normal market-
size.
•Unobservable parameter valuation adjustments may be made when
positions are valued using prices or input parameters to valuation
models that are unobservable due to a lack of market activity or
because they cannot be implied from observable market data. Such
prices or parameters must be estimated and are, therefore, subject
to management judgment. Unobservable parameter valuation adjustments are applied to reflect the
uncertainty inherent in the resulting valuation estimate.
•Where appropriate, the Firm also applies adjustments to its
estimates of fair value in order to appropriately reflect counterparty
credit quality (CVA), the Firm’s own creditworthiness (DVA) and
the impact of funding (FVA), using a consistent framework across
the Firm. For more information on such adjustments refer to Credit
and funding adjustments on page 175 of this Note.
Valuation model review and approval
If prices or quotes are not available for an instrument or a similar
instrument, fair value is generally determined using valuation models
that consider relevant transaction data such as maturity and use as
inputs market-based or independently sourced parameters. Where this
is the case the price verification process described above is applied to
the inputs to those models.
Under the Firm’s Estimations and Model Risk Management Policy, the
Model Risk function reviews and approves new models, as well as
material changes to existing models, prior to implementation in the
operating environment. In certain circumstances, the head of the
Model Risk function may grant exceptions to the Firm’s policy to
allow a model to be used prior to review or approval. The Model Risk
function may also require the user to take appropriate actions to
mitigate the model risk if it is to be used in the interim. These actions
will depend on the model and may include, for example, limitation of
trading activity.
Valuation hierarchy
A three-level valuation hierarchy has been established under U.S.
GAAP for disclosure of fair value measurements. The valuation
hierarchy is based on the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an
asset or liability as of the measurement date. The three levels are
defined as follows.
•Level 1 – inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices
(unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
•Level 2 – inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted
prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs
that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or
indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument.
•Level 3 – one or more inputs to the valuation methodology are
unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement.
A financial instrument’s categorization within the valuation hierarchy
is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value
measurement.
160  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
•
•
•
•
•
•
•The following table describes the valuation methodologies generally used by the Firm to measure its significant products/instruments at fair value,
including the general classification of such instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.
 Product/instrument  Valuation methodologyClassifications in the valuation
hierar chy
 Securities financing agreements Valuations are based on discounted cash flows, which consider: Predominantly level 2
 • Derivative features: for further information refer to the discussion of
derivatives below .
 • Market rates for the respective maturity
 • Collateral characteristics
 Loans and lending-related commitments — wholesale  
 Loans carried at fair value
(e.g., trading loans and non-trading
loans) and associated
lending-related commitmentsWhere observable market data is available, valuations are based on: Level 2 or 3
 • Observed market prices (circumstances are infrequent)  
 • Relevant broker quotes  
 • Observed market prices for similar instruments  
  Where observable market data is unavailable or limited, valuations are based on
discounted cash flows, which consider the following:  
  • Credit spreads derived from the cost of CDS; or benchmark credit curves
developed by the Firm, by industry and credit rating  
  • Prepayment speed  
  • Collateral characteristics  
 Loans — consumer  
 Trading loans — conforming
residential mortgage loans expected
to be sold (CCB, CIB)Fair value is based on observable prices for mortgage-backed securities with
similar collateral and incorporates adjustments to these prices to account for
differences between the securities and the value of the underlying loans, which
include credit characteristics, portfolio composition, and liquidity .Predominantly level 2
 
  
   
 Investment and trading securities Quoted market prices are used where available. Level 1
  In the absence of quoted market prices, securities are valued based on: Level 2 or 3
  • Observable market prices for similar securities  
    Relevant broker quotes  
    Discounted cash flows  
  In addition, the following inputs to discounted cash flows are used for the
following products:  
  Mortgage- and asset-backed securities specific inputs:  
    Collateral characteristics  
  • Deal-specific payment and loss allocations  
  • Current market assumptions related to yield, prepayment speed, conditional
default rates and loss severity  
  Collateralized loan obligations (“CLOs”) specific inputs:  
    Collateral characteristics  
    Deal-specific payment and loss allocations  
    Expected prepayment speed, conditional default rates, loss severity  
    Credit spreads  
  • Credit rating data  
 Physical commodities Valued using observable market prices or data. Level 1 and 2
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  161
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•Notes to consolidated financial statements
Product/instrument Valuation methodologyClassifications in the valuation
hierar chy
Derivatives Exchange-traded derivatives that are actively traded and valued using the exchange
price.Level 1
 Derivatives that are valued using models such as the Black-Scholes option pricing
model, simulation models, or a combination of models that may use observable or
unobservable valuation inputs as well as considering the contractual terms.
The key valuation inputs used will depend on the type of derivative and the nature of
the underlying instruments and may include equity prices, commodity prices, interest
rate yield curves, foreign exchange rates, volatilities, correlations, CDS spreads and
recovery rates.  Additionally , the credit quality of the counterparty and of the Firm as
well as market funding levels may also be considered.Level 2 or 3
 In addition, specific inputs used for derivatives that are valued based on models with
significant unobservable inputs are as follows:
 Structured credit derivatives specific inputs include:
   CDS spreads and recovery rates
   Credit correlation between the underlying debt instruments
 Equity option specific inputs include:
   Equity volatilities
   Equity correlation
   Equity-FX correlation
   Equity-IR correlation
 Interest rate and FX exotic options specific inputs include:
   Interest rate spread volatility
   Interest rate correlation
   Foreign exchange correlation
   Interest rate-FX correlation
 Commodity derivatives specific inputs include:
   Commodity volatility
   Forward commodity price
 Additionally , adjustments are made to reflect counterparty credit quality (CV A) and
the impact of funding (FV A). Refer to page 175 of this Note. 
Mortgage servicing rights Refer to Mortgage servicing rights in Note 15. Level 3
Private equity direct investments Fair value is estimated using all available information; the range of potential inputs
include:Level 2 or 3
• Transaction prices
 • Trading multiples of comparable public companies
 • Operating performance of the underlying portfolio company
 • Adjustments as required, since comparable public companies are not identical to
the company being valued, and for company-specific issues and lack of liquidity .
 • Additional available inputs relevant to the investment.
Fund investments (e.g.,
mutual/collective investment funds,
private equity funds, hedge funds,
and real estate funds)Net asset value
• NA V is supported by the ability to redeem and purchase at the NA V level.Level 1
• Adjustments to the NA V as required, for restrictions on redemption (e.g., lock-up
periods or withdrawal limitations) or where observable activity is limited.Level 2 or 3 (a)
 
Beneficial interests issued by
consolidated VIEsValued using observable market information, where available. Level 2 or 3
In the absence of observable market information, valuations are based on the fair
value of the underlying assets held by the VIE.
(a)Excludes certain investments that are measured at fair value using the net asset value per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient.
162  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
 Product/instrument Valuation methodologyClassification in the valuation
hierar chy
 Structured notes (included in
deposits, short-term borrowings and
long-term debt)• Valuations are based on discounted cash flow analyses that consider the embedded
derivative and the terms and payment structure of the note.
• The embedded derivative features are considered using models such as the Black-
Scholes option pricing model, simulation models, or a combination of models
that may use observable or unobservable valuation inputs, depending on the
embedded derivative. The specific inputs used vary according to the nature of the
embedded derivative features, as described in the discussion above regarding
derivatives valuation. Adjustments are then made to this base valuation to reflect
the Firm’ s own credit risk (DV A). Refer to page 175 of this Note.Level 2 or 3
 
 
 
 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  163
Notes to consolidated financial statements
The following table presents the assets and liabilities reported at fair value as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, by major product category and fair
value hierarchy.
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis    
 Fair value hierarchy  
December  31, 2018 (in millions) Level 1 Level 2  Level 3Derivative netting
adjustments Total fair value
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements $ — $ 13,235  $ — $ — $ 13,235
Securities borrowed — 5,105  — — 5,105
Trading assets:     
Debt instruments:     
Mortgage-backed securities:     
U.S. government agencies (a) — 76,249  549 — 76,798
Residential – nonagency — 1,798  64 — 1,862
Commercial – nonagency — 1,501  11 — 1,512
Total mortgage-backed securities — 79,548  624 — 80,172
U.S. Treasury and government agencies (a) 51,477 7,702  — — 59,179
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities — 7,121  689 — 7,810
Certificates of deposit, bankers’  acceptances and commercial paper — 1,214  — — 1,214
Non-U.S. government debt securities 27,878 27,056  155 — 55,089
Corporate debt securities — 18,655  334 — 18,989
Loans (b) — 40,047  1,706 — 41,753
Asset-backed securities — 2,756  127 — 2,883
Total debt instruments 79,355 184,099  3,635 — 267,089
Equity securities 71,119 482 232 — 71,833
Physical commodities (c) 5,182 1,855  — — 7,037
Other — 13,192  301 — 13,493
Total debt and equity instruments (d) 155,656 199,628  4,168 — 359,452
Derivative receivables:     
Interest rate 682 266,380  1,642 (245,490 ) 23,214
Credit — 19,235  860 (19,483 ) 612
Foreign exchange 771 166,238  676 (154,235 ) 13,450
Equity — 46,777  2,508 (39,339 ) 9,946
Commodity — 20,339  131 (13,479 ) 6,991
Total derivative r eceivables (e) 1,453 518,969  5,817 (472,026 ) 54,213
Total trading assets (f) 157,109 718,597  9,985 (472,026 ) 413,665
Available-for -sale securities:     
Mortgage-backed securities:     
U.S. government agencies (a) — 68,646  — — 68,646
Residential – nonagency — 8,519  1 — 8,520
Commercial – nonagency — 6,654  — — 6,654
Total mortgage-backed securities — 83,819  1 — 83,820
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 56,059 — — — 56,059
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities — 37,723  — — 37,723
Certificates of deposit — 75 — — 75
Non-U.S. government debt securities 15,313 8,789  — — 24,102
Corporate debt securities — 1,918  — — 1,918
Asset-backed securities:     
Collateralized loan obligations — 19,437  — — 19,437
Other — 7,260  — — 7,260
Total available-for -sale securities 71,372 159,021  1 — 230,394
Loans — 3,029  122 — 3,151
Mortgage servicing rights — — 6,130 — 6,130
Other assets (f)(g) 7,810 195 927 — 8,932
Total assets measur ed at fair  value on a r ecurring basis $ 236,291 $ 899,182  $ 17,165 $ (472,026 )$ 680,612
Deposits $ — $ 19,048  $ 4,169 $ — $ 23,217
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements — 935 — — 935
Short-term borrowings — 5,607  1,523 — 7,130
Trading liabilities:     
Debt and equity instruments (d) 80,199 22,755  50 — 103,004
Derivative payables:     
Interest rate 1,526 239,576  1,680 (234,998 ) 7,784
Credit — 19,309  967 (18,609 ) 1,667
Foreign exchange 695 163,549  973 (152,432 ) 12,785
Equity — 46,462  4,733 (41,034 ) 10,161
Commodity — 21,158  1,260 (13,046 ) 9,372
Total derivative payables (e) 2,221 490,054  9,613 (460,1 19) 41,769
Total trading liabilities 82,420 512,809  9,663 (460,1 19) 144,773
Accounts payable and other liabilities 3,063 196 10 — 3,269
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs — 27 1 — 28
Long-term debt — 35,468  19,418 — 54,886
Total liabilities measur ed at fair  value on a r ecurring basis $ 85,483 $ 574,090  $ 34,784 $ (460,1 19)$ 234,238
164  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
 Fair value hierarchy  
December 31, 2017 (in millions) Level 1 Level 2  Level 3Derivative netting
adjustments Total fair value
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements $ — $ 14,732  $ — $ — $ 14,732
Securities borrowed — 3,049  — — 3,049
Trading assets:     
Debt instruments:     
Mortgage-backed securities:     
U.S. government agencies (a) — 41,515  307 — 41,822
Residential – nonagency — 1,835  60 — 1,895
Commercial – nonagency — 1,645  11 — 1,656
Total mortgage-backed securities — 44,995  378 — 45,373
U.S. Treasury and government agencies (a) 30,758 6,475  1 — 37,234
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities — 9,067  744 — 9,811
Certificates of deposit, bankers’  acceptances and commercial paper — 226 — — 226
Non-U.S. government debt securities 28,887 28,831  78 — 57,796
Corporate debt securities — 24,146  312 — 24,458
Loans (b) — 35,242  2,719 — 37,961
Asset-backed securities — 3,284  153 — 3,437
Total debt instruments 59,645 152,266  4,385 — 216,296
Equity securities 87,346 197 295 — 87,838
Physical commodities (c) 4,924 1,322  — — 6,246
Other — 14,197  690 — 14,887
Total debt and equity instruments (d) 151,915 167,982  5,370 — 325,267
Derivative receivables:     
Interest rate 181 314,107  1,704 (291,319 ) 24,673
Credit — 21,995  1,209 (22,335 ) 869
Foreign exchange 841 158,834  557 (144,081 ) 16,151
Equity — 37,722  2,318 (32,158 ) 7,882
Commodity — 19,875  210 (13,137 ) 6,948
Total derivative r eceivables (e) 1,022 552,533  5,998 (503,030 ) 56,523
Total trading assets (f) 152,937 720,515  11,368 (503,030 ) 381,790
Available-for -sale securities:     
Mortgage-backed securities:     
U.S. government agencies (a) — 70,280  — — 70,280
Residential – nonagency — 11,366  1 — 11,367
Commercial – nonagency — 5,025  — — 5,025
Total mortgage-backed securities — 86,671  1 — 86,672
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 22,745 — — — 22,745
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities — 32,338  — — 32,338
Certificates of deposit — 59 — — 59
Non-U.S. government debt securities 18,140 9,154  — — 27,294
Corporate debt securities — 2,757  — — 2,757
Asset-backed securities:     
Collateralized loan obligations — 20,720  276 — 20,996
Other — 8,817  — — 8,817
Equity securities (g) 547 — — — 547
Total available-for -sale securities 41,432 160,516  277 — 202,225
Loans — 2,232  276 — 2,508
Mortgage servicing rights — — 6,030 — 6,030
Other assets (f)(g) 13,795 343 1,265 — 15,403
Total assets measur ed at fair  value on a r ecurring basis $ 208,164 $ 901,387  $ 19,216 $ (503,030 ) $ 625,737
Deposits $ — $ 17,179  $ 4,142 $ — $ 21,321
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements — 697 — — 697
Short-term borrowings — 7,526  1,665 — 9,191
Trading liabilities:     
Debt and equity instruments (d) 64,664 21,183  39 — 85,886
Derivative payables:     
Interest rate 170 282,825  1,440 (277,306 ) 7,129
Credit — 22,009  1,244 (21,954 ) 1,299
Foreign exchange 794 154,075  953 (143,349 ) 12,473
Equity — 39,668  5,727 (36,203 ) 9,192
Commodity — 21,017  884 (14,217 ) 7,684
Total derivative payables (e) 964 519,594  10,248 (493,029 ) 37,777
Total trading liabilities 65,628 540,777  10,287 (493,029 ) 123,663
Accounts payable and other liabilities 9,074 121 13 — 9,208
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs — 6 39 — 45
Long-term debt — 31,394  16,125 — 47,519
Total liabilities measur ed at fair  value on a r ecurring basis $ 74,702 $ 597,700  $ 32,271 $ (493,029 ) $ 211,644
(a)At December 31, 2018 and 2017, included total U.S. government-sponsored enterprise obligations of $92.3 billion and $78.0 billion, respectively, which were predominantly
mortgage-related.
(b)At December 31, 2018 and 2017, included within trading loans were $13.2 billion and $11.4 billion, respectively, of residential first-lien mortgages, and $2.3 billion and $4.2 billion,
respectively, of commercial first-lien mortgages. Residential mortgage loans include conforming mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell to U.S. government agencies of
$7.6 billion and $5.7 billion, respectively, and reverse mortgages of zero and $836 million, respectively.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  165
Notes to consolidated financial statements
(c)Physical commodities inventories are generally accounted for at the lower of cost or net realizable value. “Net realizable value” is a term defined in U.S. GAAP as not exceeding fair
value less costs to sell (“transaction costs”). Transaction costs for the Firm’s physical commodities inventories are either not applicable or immaterial to the value of the inventory.
Therefore, net realizable value approximates fair value for the Firm’s physical commodities inventories. When fair value hedging has been applied (or when net realizable value is
below cost), the carrying value of physical commodities approximates fair value, because under fair value hedge accounting, the cost basis is adjusted for changes in fair value. For a
further discussion of the Firm’s hedge accounting relationships, refer to Note 5. To provide consistent fair value disclosure information, all physical commodities inventories have
been included in each period presented.
(d)Balances reflect the reduction of securities owned (long positions) by the amount of identical securities sold but not yet purchased (short positions).
(e)As permitted under U.S. GAAP, the Firm has elected to net derivative receivables and derivative payables and the related cash collateral received and paid when a legally
enforceable master netting agreement exists. For purposes of the tables above, the Firm does not reduce derivative receivables and derivative payables balances for this netting
adjustment, either within or across the levels of the fair value hierarchy, as such netting is not relevant to a presentation based on the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an
asset or liability. The level 3 balances would be reduced if netting were applied, including the netting benefit associated with cash collateral.
(f)Certain investments that are measured at fair value using the net asset value per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient are not required to be classified in the fair value
hierarchy. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, the fair values of these investments, which include certain hedge funds, private equity funds, real estate and other funds, were $747
million and $779 million, respectively. Included in these balances at December 31, 2018 and 2017, were trading assets of $49 million and $54 million, respectively, and other assets
of $698 million and $725 million, respectively.
(g)Effective January 1, 2018, the Firm adopted the recognition and measurement guidance. Equity securities that were previously reported as AFS securities were reclassified to other
assets upon adoption.
 
166  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Level 3 valuations
The Firm has established well-structured processes for determining fair
value, including for instruments where fair value is estimated using
significant unobservable inputs (level 3). For further information on
the Firm’s valuation process and a detailed discussion of the
determination of fair value for individual financial instruments, refer to
pages 159–163 of this Note.
Estimating fair value requires the application of judgment. The type
and level of judgment required is largely dependent on the amount of
observable market information available to the Firm. For instruments
valued using internally developed valuation models and other
valuation techniques that use significant unobservable inputs and are
therefore classified within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy,
judgments used to estimate fair value are more significant than those
required when estimating the fair value of instruments classified within
levels 1 and 2.
In arriving at an estimate of fair value for an instrument within level 3,
management must first determine the appropriate valuation model or
other valuation technique to use. Second, due to the lack of
observability of significant inputs, management must assess all
relevant empirical data in deriving valuation inputs including
transaction details, yield curves, interest rates, prepayment speed,
default rates, volatilities, correlations, equity or debt prices, valuations
of comparable instruments, foreign exchange rates and credit curves.
The following table presents the Firm’s primary level 3 financial
instruments, the valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of
those financial instruments, the significant unobservable inputs, the
range of values for those inputs and, for certain instruments, the
weighted averages of such inputs. While the determination to classify
an instrument within level 3 is based on the significance of the
unobservable inputs to the overall fair value measurement, level 3
financial instruments typically include observable components (that is,
components that are actively quoted and can be validated to external
sources) in addition to the unobservable components. The level 1
and/or level 2 inputs are not included in the table. In addition, the Firm
manages the risk of the observable components of level 3 financial
instruments using securities and derivative positions that are classified
within levels 1 or 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
The range of values presented in the table is representative of the
highest and lowest level input used to value the significant groups of
instruments within a product/instrument classification. Where
provided, the weighted averages of the input values presented in the
table are calculated based on the fair value of the instruments that the
input is being used to value. In the Firm’s view, the input range and the weighted average value do
not reflect the degree of input uncertainty or an assessment of the
reasonableness of the Firm’s estimates and assumptions. Rather, they
reflect the characteristics of the various instruments held by the Firm
and the relative distribution of instruments within the range of
characteristics. For example, two option contracts may have similar
levels of market risk exposure and valuation uncertainty, but may have
significantly different implied volatility levels because the option
contracts have different underlyings, tenors, or strike prices. The input
range and weighted average values will therefore vary from period-to-
period and parameter-to-parameter based on the characteristics of the
instruments held by the Firm at each balance sheet date.
For the Firm’s derivatives and structured notes positions classified
within level 3 at December 31, 2018, interest rate correlation inputs
used in estimating fair value were concentrated towards the upper end
of the range; equity correlation, equity-FX and equity-IR correlation
inputs were concentrated in the middle of the range; commodity
correlation inputs were concentrated in the middle of the range; credit
correlation inputs were concentrated towards the lower end of the
range; and the interest rate-foreign exchange (“IR-FX”) correlation
inputs were distributed across the range. In addition, the interest rate
spread volatility inputs used in estimating fair value were distributed
across the range; equity volatilities and commodity volatilities were
concentrated in the middle of the range; and forward commodity prices
used in estimating the fair value of commodity derivatives were
concentrated towards the lower end of the range. Recovery rate inputs
used in estimating the fair value of credit derivatives were distributed
across the range; credit spreads and conditional default rates were
concentrated towards the lower end of the range; loss severity and
price inputs were concentrated towards the upper end of the range.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  167
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Level 3 inputs(a)
December 31, 2018  
Product/InstrumentFair value (in
millions) Principal valuation technique Unobservable inputs(g) Range of input valuesWeighted
average
Residential mortgage-backed securities and
loans(b)$ 858 Discounted cash flows Yield 0 % – 19% 6%
 Prepayment speed 0 % – 24% 9%
  Conditional default rate 0 % – 9% 1%
  Loss severity 0 % – 100% 6%
Commercial mortgage-backed securities and
loans(c) 419 Market comparables Price $ 0 – $103 $90
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities689 Market comparables Price $ 62 – $100 $96
Corporate debt securities 334 Market comparables Price $ 0 – $107 $57
Loans(d) 234Discounted cash flows Yield 8% 8%
 942 Market comparables Price $ 2 – $101 $78
Asset-backed securities 127 Market comparables Price $ 1 – $102 $67
Net interest rate derivatives (180) Option pricing Interest rate spread volatility 16bps – 38bps
  Interest rate correlation (45)% – 97%
  IR-FX correlation 45 % – 60%
 142 Discounted cash flows Prepayment speed 4 % – 30%
Net credit derivatives (163) Discounted cash flows Credit correlation25 %– 55%
  Credit spread 10bps –1,487bps
  Recovery rate 20 % – 70%
  Conditional default rate 3 % – 72%
  Loss severity 100%
 56 Market comparables Price $ 1 – $115
Net foreign exchange derivatives (122) Option pricing IR-FX correlation (45)%– 60%
 (175) Discounted cash flows Prepayment speed 8 % – 9%
Net equity derivatives (2,225) Option pricing Equity volatility 14 % – 57%
  Equity correlation 20 % – 98%
  Equity-FX correlation (75)% – 61%
  Equity-IR correlation 20 % – 60%
Net commodity derivatives (1,129) Option pricing Forward commodity price $ 39 –$56 per barrel
  Commodity volatility 5 % – 68%
  Commodity correlation (51)% – 95%
MSRs 6,130 Discounted cash flows Refer to Note 15  
Other assets 306 Discounted cash flows Credit spread 55bps 55bps
  Yield 8% – 10% 8%
 922 Market comparables Price $ 20 $108 $40
  EBITDA multiple 2.9x – 8.3x 7.5x
Long-term debt, short-term borrowings, and
deposits(e)25,110 Option pricing Interest rate spread volatility 16bps – 38bps
 Interest rate correlation (45)% – 97%
 IR-FX correlation (45)% – 60%
 Equity correlation 20 % – 98%
 Equity-FX correlation (75)% – 61%
 Equity-IR correlation 20 % – 60%
Other level 3 assets and liabilities, net(f) 326  
(a)The categories presented in the table have been aggregated based upon the product type, which may differ from their classification on the Consolidated balance sheets. Furthermore,
the inputs presented for each valuation technique in the table are, in some cases, not applicable to every instrument valued using the technique as the characteristics of the
instruments can differ.
(b)Includes U.S. government agency securities of $541 million, nonagency securities of $65 million and trading loans of $252 million.
(c)Includes U.S. government agency securities of $8 million, nonagency securities of $11 million, trading loans of $278 million and non-trading loans of $122 million.
(d)Comprises trading loans.
(e)Long-term debt, short-term borrowings and deposits include structured notes issued by the Firm that are financial instruments that typically contain embedded derivatives. The
estimation of the fair value of structured notes includes the derivative features embedded within the instrument. The significant unobservable inputs are broadly consistent with those
presented for derivative receivables.
(f)Includes level 3 assets and liabilities that are insignificant both individually and in aggregate.
(g)Price is a significant unobservable input for certain instruments. When quoted market prices are not readily available, reliance is generally placed on price-based internal valuation
techniques. The price input is expressed assuming a par value of $100.
168  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Changes in and ranges of unobservable inputs
The following discussion provides a description of the impact on a fair
value measurement of a change in each unobservable input in
isolation, and the interrelationship between unobservable inputs, where
relevant and significant. The impact of changes in inputs may not be
independent, as a change in one unobservable input may give rise to a
change in another unobservable input. Where relationships do exist
between two unobservable inputs, those relationships are discussed
below. Relationships may also exist between observable and
unobservable inputs (for example, as observable interest rates rise,
unobservable prepayment rates decline); such relationships have not
been included in the discussion below. In addition, for each of the
individual relationships described below, the inverse relationship
would also generally apply.
The following discussion also provides a description of attributes of
the underlying instruments and external market factors that affect the
range of inputs used in the valuation of the Firm’s positions.
Yield – The yield of an asset is the interest rate used to discount future
cash flows in a discounted cash flow calculation. An increase in the
yield, in isolation, would result in a decrease in a fair value
measurement.
Credit spread – The credit spread is the amount of additional
annualized return over the market interest rate that a market participant
would demand for taking exposure to the credit risk of an instrument.
The credit spread for an instrument forms part of the discount rate used
in a discounted cash flow calculation. Generally, an increase in the
credit spread would result in a decrease in a fair value measurement.
The yield and the credit spread of a particular mortgage-backed
security primarily reflect the risk inherent in the instrument. The yield
is also impacted by the absolute level of the coupon paid by the
instrument (which may not correspond directly to the level of inherent
risk). Therefore, the range of yield and credit spreads reflects the range
of risk inherent in various instruments owned by the Firm. The risk
inherent in mortgage-backed securities is driven by the subordination
of the security being valued and the characteristics of the underlying
mortgages within the collateralized pool, including borrower FICO
scores, LTV ratios for residential mortgages and the nature of the
property and/or any tenants for commercial mortgages. For corporate
debt securities, obligations of U.S. states and municipalities and other
similar instruments, credit spreads reflect the credit quality of the
obligor and the tenor of the obligation.
Prepayment speed – The prepayment speed is a measure of the
voluntary unscheduled principal repayments of a prepayable obligation
in a collateralized pool. Prepayment speeds generally decline as
borrower delinquencies rise. An increase in prepayment speeds, in
isolation, would result in a decrease in a fair value measurement of
assets valued at a premium to par and an increase in a fair value
measurement of assets valued at a discount to par.
Prepayment speeds may vary from collateral pool to collateral pool,
and are driven by the type and location of the underlying borrower, and the remaining tenor of the obligation as well
as the level and type (e.g., fixed or floating) of interest rate being paid
by the borrower. Typically collateral pools with higher borrower credit
quality have a higher prepayment rate than those with lower borrower
credit quality, all other factors being equal.
Conditional default rate – The conditional default rate is a measure of
the reduction in the outstanding collateral balance underlying a
collateralized obligation as a result of defaults. While there is typically
no direct relationship between conditional default rates and
prepayment speeds, collateralized obligations for which the underlying
collateral has high prepayment speeds will tend to have lower
conditional default rates. An increase in conditional default rates would
generally be accompanied by an increase in loss severity and an
increase in credit spreads. An increase in the conditional default rate,
in isolation, would result in a decrease in a fair value measurement.
Conditional default rates reflect the quality of the collateral underlying
a securitization and the structure of the securitization itself. Based on
the types of securities owned in the Firm’s market-making portfolios,
conditional default rates are most typically at the lower end of the
range presented.
Loss severity – The loss severity (the inverse concept is the recovery
rate) is the expected amount of future realized losses resulting from the
ultimate liquidation of a particular loan, expressed as the net amount of
loss relative to the outstanding loan balance. An increase in loss
severity is generally accompanied by an increase in conditional default
rates. An increase in the loss severity, in isolation, would result in a
decrease in a fair value measurement.
The loss severity applied in valuing a mortgage-backed security
investment depends on factors relating to the underlying mortgages,
including the LTV ratio, the nature of the lender’s lien on the property
and other instrument-specific factors.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  169
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Correlation – Correlation is a measure of the relationship between the
movements of two variables (e.g., how the change in one variable
influences the change in the other). Correlation is a pricing input for a
derivative product where the payoff is driven by one or more
underlying risks. Correlation inputs are related to the type of derivative
(e.g., interest rate, credit, equity, foreign exchange and commodity)
due to the nature of the underlying risks. When parameters are
positively correlated, an increase in one parameter will result in an
increase in the other parameter. When parameters are negatively
correlated, an increase in one parameter will result in a decrease in the
other parameter. An increase in correlation can result in an increase or
a decrease in a fair value measurement. Given a short correlation
position, an increase in correlation, in isolation, would generally result
in a decrease in a fair value measurement.
The level of correlation used in the valuation of derivatives with
multiple underlying risks depends on a number of factors including the
nature of those risks. For example, the correlation between two credit
risk exposures would be different than that between two interest rate
risk exposures. Similarly, the tenor of the transaction may also impact
the correlation input, as the relationship between the underlying risks
may be different over different time periods. Furthermore, correlation
levels are very much dependent on market conditions and could have a
relatively wide range of levels within or across asset classes over time,
particularly in volatile market conditions.
Volatility – Volatility is a measure of the variability in possible returns
for an instrument, parameter or market index given how much the
particular instrument, parameter or index changes in value over time.
Volatility is a pricing input for options, including equity options,
commodity options, and interest rate options. Generally, the higher the
volatility of the underlying, the riskier the instrument. Given a long
position in an option, an increase in volatility, in isolation, would
generally result in an increase in a fair value measurement.
The level of volatility used in the valuation of a particular option-based
derivative depends on a number of factors, including the nature of the
risk underlying the option (e.g., the volatility of a particular equity
security may be significantly different from that of a particular
commodity index), the tenor of the derivative as well as the strike price
of the option. EBITDA multiple – EBITDA multiples refer to the input (often
derived from the value of a comparable company) that is multiplied by
the historic and/or expected earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) of a company in order to
estimate the company’s value. An increase in the EBITDA multiple, in
isolation, net of adjustments, would result in an increase in a fair value
measurement.
Changes in level 3 recurring fair value measurements
The following tables include a rollforward of the Consolidated balance
sheets amounts (including changes in fair value) for financial
instruments classified by the Firm within level 3 of the fair value
hierarchy for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.
When a determination is made to classify a financial instrument within
level 3, the determination is based on the significance of the
unobservable inputs to the overall fair value measurement. However,
level 3 financial instruments typically include, in addition to the
unobservable or level 3 components, observable components (that is,
components that are actively quoted and can be validated to external
sources); accordingly, the gains and losses in the table below include
changes in fair value due in part to observable factors that are part of
the valuation methodology. Also, the Firm risk-manages the observable
components of level 3 financial instruments using securities and
derivative positions that are classified within level 1 or 2 of the fair
value hierarchy; as these level 1 and level 2 risk management
instruments are not included below, the gains or losses in the following
tables do not reflect the effect of the Firm’s risk management activities
related to such level 3 instruments.
170  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
 Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs
Year ended
December 31, 2018
(in millions)Fair value
at January
1, 2018Total
realized/unrealized
gains/(losses) 
Transfers into
level 3(h)Transfers (out
of) level 3(h)Fair value
at Dec. 31,
2018Change in
unrealized
gains/(losses)
related to financial
instruments held at
Dec. 31, 2018 Purchases(f) Sales Settlements(g)
Assets:(a)       
Trading assets:       
Debt instruments:       
Mortgage-backed securities:       
U.S. government agencies $ 307$ (23) $ 478$ (164) $ (73)$ 94$ (70)$ 549 $(21) 
Residential – nonagency 60 (2) 78 (50) (7) 59 (74) 64 1 
Commercial – nonagency 11 2 18 (18) (17) 36 (21) 11 (2) 
Total mortgage-backed securities 378 (23) 574 (232) (97) 189 (165) 624 (22) 
U.S. Treasury and government
agencies 1 — — — — — (1) — — 
Obligations of U.S. states and
municipalities 744 (17) 112 (70) (80) — — 689 (17) 
Non-U.S. government debt securities 78 (22) 459 (277) (12) 23 (94) 155 (9) 
Corporate debt securities 312 (18) 364 (309) (48) 262 (229) 334 (1) 
Loans 2,719 26 1,364 (1,793) (658) 813 (765) 1,706 (1) 
Asset-backed securities 153 28 98 (41) (55) 45 (101) 127 22 
Total debt instruments 4,385 (26) 2,971 (2,722) (950) 1,332 (1,355) 3,635 (28) 
Equity securities 295 (40) 118 (120) (1) 107 (127) 232 9 
Other 690 (285) 55 (40) (118) 3 (4) 301 (301) 
Total trading assets – debt and equity
instruments 5,370 (351)(c) 3,144 (2,882) (1,069) 1,442 (1,486) 4,168 (320)(c) 
Net derivative receivables:(b)      
Interest rate 264 150 107 (133) (430) (15) 19 (38) 187 
Credit (35) (40) 5 (7) (57) 4 23 (107) (28) 
Foreign exchange (396) 103 52 (20) 30 (108) 42 (297) (63) 
Equity (3,409) 198 1,676 (2,208) 1,805 (617) 330 (2,225) 561 
Commodity (674) (73) 1 (72) (301) 7 (17) (1,129) 146 
Total net derivative receivables (4,250) 338 (c) 1,841 (2,440) 1,047 (729) 397 (3,796) 803(c) 
Available-for-sale securities:      
Mortgage-backed securities 1 — — — — — — 1 — 
Asset-backed securities 276 1 — — (277) — — — — 
Total available-for-sale securities 277 1 (d) — — (277) — — 1 — 
Loans 276 (7)(c) 123 — (196) — (74) 122 (7)(c) 
Mortgage servicing rights 6,030 230 (e) 1,246 (636) (740) — — 6,130 230(e) 
Other assets 1,265 (328)(c) 61 (37) (37) 4 (1) 927 (340)(c) 
       
 Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs
Year ended
December 31, 2018
(in millions)Fair value
at January
1, 2018Total
realized/unrealized
(gains)/losses  
Transfers (out
of) level 3(h)Fair value
at Dec. 31,
2018Change in
unrealized
(gains)/losses
related to financial
instruments held at
Dec. 31, 2018 Purchases Sales Issuances Settlements(g)Transfers into
level 3(h)
Liabilities:(a)       
Deposits $4,142$ (136)(c)(i) $ — $ — $ 1,437$ (736)$ 2$ (540)$4,169 $(204)(c)(i) 
Federal funds purchased and securities
loaned or sold under repurchase
agreements — — — — — — — — — — 
Short-term borrowings 1,665 (329)(c)(i) — — 3,455 (3,388) 272 (152) 1,523 (131)(c)(i) 
Trading liabilities – debt and equity
instruments 39 19 (c) (99) 114 — (1) 14 (36) 50 16(c) 
Accounts payable and other liabilities 13 — (12) 5 — — 4 — 10 — 
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated
VIEs 39 — — 1 — (39) — — 1 — 
Long-term debt 16,125 (1,169)(c)(i) — — 11,919 (7,769) 1,143 (831) 19,418 (1,385)(c)(i) 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  171
Notes to consolidated financial statements
 Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs   
Year ended
December 31, 2017
(in millions)Fair value at
January 1,
2017Total
realized/unrealized
gains/(losses)    
Transfers (out
of) level 3(h)Fair value
at Dec. 31,
2017 Change in
unrealized
gains/(losses)
related to financial
instruments held at
Dec. 31, 2017 Purchases(f) Sales Settlements(g)Transfers into
level 3(h)
Assets:(a)            
Trading assets:            
Debt instruments:            
Mortgage-backed securities:            
U.S. government agencies $392 $ (11) $ 161$(171) $ (70)$ 49$ (43)$ 307 $ (20) 
Residential – nonagency 83 19 53 (30) (64) 132 (133) 60 11 
Commercial – nonagency 17 9 27 (44) (13) 64 (49) 11 1 
Total mortgage-backed securities 492 17 241 (245) (147) 245 (225) 378 (8) 
U.S. Treasury and government
agencies — — — — — 1 — 1 — 
Obligations of U.S. states and
municipalities 649 18 152 (70) (5) — — 744 15 
Non-U.S. government debt securities 46 — 559 (518) — 62 (71) 78 — 
Corporate debt securities 576 11 872 (612) (497) 157 (195) 312 18 
Loans 4,837 333 2,389 (2,832) (1,323) 806 (1,491) 2,719 43 
Asset-backed securities 302 32 354 (356) (56) 75 (198) 153 — 
Total debt instruments 6,902 411 4,567 (4,633) (2,028) 1,346 (2,180) 4,385 68 
Equity securities 231 39 176 (148) (4) 59 (58) 295 21 
Other 761 100 30 (46) (162) 17 (10) 690 39 
Total trading assets – debt and
equity instruments 7,894 550 (c) 4,773 (4,827) (2,194) 1,422 (2,248) 5,370 128(c) 
Net derivative receivables:(b) —     
Interest rate 1,263 72 60 (82) (1,040) (8) (1) 264 (473) 
Credit 98 (164) 1 (6) — 77 (41) (35) 32 
Foreign exchange (1,384) 43 13 (10) 854 (61) 149 (396) 42 
Equity (2,252) (417) 1,116 (551) (245) (1,482) 422 (3,409) (161) 
Commodity (85) (149) — — (433) (6) (1) (674) (718) 
Total net derivative receivables (2,360) (615)(c) 1,190 (649) (864) (1,480) 528 (4,250) (1,278)(c) 
Available-for-sale securities:    —  
Mortgage-backed securities 1 — — — — — — 1 — 
Asset-backed securities 663 15 — (50) (352) — — 276 14 
Total available-for-sale securities 664 15 (d) — (50) (352) — — 277 14(d) 
Loans 570 35 (c) — (26) (303) — — 276 3(c) 
Mortgage servicing rights 6,096 (232)(e) 1,103 (140) (797) — — 6,030 (232)(e) 
Other assets 2,223 244 (c) 66 (177) (870) — (221) 1,265 74(c) 
            
 Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs   
Year ended
December 31, 2017
(in millions)Fair
value at
January
1, 2017Total
realized/unrealized
(gains)/losses    
Transfers (out
of) level 3(h)Fair value
at Dec. 31,
2017 Change in
unrealized
(gains)/losses
related to financial
instruments held at
Dec. 31, 2017 Purchases Sales Issuances Settlements(g)Transfers into
level 3(h)
Liabilities:(a)            
Deposits $2,117 $ 152 (c)(i) $ — $ — $3,027 $ (291)$ 11$ (874)$4,142 $198(c)(i) 
Federal funds purchased and securities
loaned or sold under repurchase
agreements — — — — — — — — — — 
Short-term borrowings 1,134 42 (c)(i) — — 3,289 (2,748) 150 (202) 1,665 7(c)(i) 
Trading liabilities – debt and equity
instruments 43 (3)(c) (46) 48 — 3 3 (9) 39 — 
Accounts payable and other liabilities 13 (2) (1) — — 3 — — 13 (2) 
Beneficial interests issued by
consolidated VIEs 48 2 (c) (122) 39 — (6) 78 — 39 — 
Long-term debt 12,850 1,067 (c)(i) — — 12,458 (10,985) 1,660 (925) 16,125 552(c)(i) 
172  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
 Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs
Year ended
December 31, 2016
(in millions)Fair value
at January
1, 2016Total
realized/unrealized
gains/(losses)    
Transfers
(out of) level
3(h)Fair value at
Dec. 31,
2016Change in
unrealized
gains/(losses)
related to financial
instruments held at
Dec. 31, 2016 Purchases(f) Sales Settlements(g)Transfers
into
level 3(h)
Assets:(a)       
Trading assets:       
Debt instruments:       
Mortgage-backed securities:       
U.S. government agencies $ 715$ (20) $ 135 $(295) $ (115) $ 111$ (139)$392 $ (36) 
Residential – nonagency 194 4 252 (319) (20) 67 (95) 83 5 
Commercial – nonagency 115 (11) 69 (29) (3) 173 (297) 17 3 
Total mortgage-backed securities 1,024 (27) 456 (643) (138) 351 (531) 492 (28) 
Obligations of U.S. states and
municipalities 651 19 149 (132) (38) — — 649 — 
Non-U.S. government debt securities 74 (4) 91 (97) (7) 19 (30) 46 (7) 
Corporate debt securities 736 2 445 (359) (189) 148 (207) 576 (22) 
Loans 6,604 (343) 2,228 (2,598) (1,311) 1,044 (787) 4,837 (169) 
Asset-backed securities 1,832 39 655 (712) (968) 288 (832) 302 19 
Total debt instruments 10,921 (314) 4,024 (4,541) (2,651) 1,850 (2,387) 6,902 (207) 
Equity securities 265 — 90 (108) (40) 29 (5) 231 7 
Physical commodities — — — — — — — — — 
Other 744 79 649 (287) (360) 26 (90) 761 28 
Total trading assets – debt and equity
instruments 11,930 (235)(c) 4,763 (4,936) (3,051) 1,905 (2,482) 7,894 (172)(c) 
Net derivative receivables:(b)     
Interest rate 876 756 193 (57) (713) (14) 222 1,263 (144) 
Credit 549 (742) 10 (2) 211 36 36 98 (622) 
Foreign exchange (725) 67 64 (124) (649) (48) 31 (1,384) (350) 
Equity (1,514) (145) 277 (852) 213 94 (325)(2,252) (86) 
Commodity (935) 194 1 10 645 8 (8) (85) (36) 
Total net derivative receivables (1,749) 130 (c) 545 (1,025) (293) 76 (44)(2,360) (1,238)(c) 
Available-for-sale securities:    
Mortgage-backed securities 1 — — — — — — 1 — 
Asset-backed securities 823 1 — — (119) — (42) 663 1 
Total available-for-sale securities 824 1 (d) — — (119) — (42) 664 1(d) 
Loans 1,518 (49)(c) 259 (7) (838) — (313) 570 — 
Mortgage servicing rights 6,608 (163)(e) 679 (109) (919) — — 6,096 (163)(e) 
Other assets 2,401 130 (c) 487 (496) (299) — — 2,223 48(c) 
       
 Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs
Year ended
December 31, 2016
(in millions)Fair value
at January
1, 2016Total
realized/unrealized
(gains)/losses    
Transfers
into
level 3(h)Transfers
(out of) level
3(h)Fair value at
Dec. 31,
2016Change in
unrealized
(gains)/losses
related to financial
instruments held at
Dec. 31, 2016 Purchases Sales Issuances Settlements(g)
Liabilities:(a)       
Deposits $2,950$ (56)(c) $ — $ — $1,375 $ (1,283) $ — $ (869)$2,117 $ 23(c) 
Federal funds purchased and securities
loaned or sold under repurchase
agreements — — — — — (2) 6 (4) — — 
Short-term borrowings 639 (230)(c) — — 1,876 (1,210) 114 (55) 1,134 (70)(c) 
Trading liabilities – debt and equity
instruments 63 (12)(c) (15) 23 — (22) 13 (7) 43 (18)(c) 
Accounts payable and other liabilities 19 — — — — (6) — — 13 —
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated
VIEs 549 (31)(c) — — 143 (613) — — 48 6(c) 
Long-term debt 11,447 147 (c) — — 8,140 (5,810) 315 (1,389)12,850 639(c) 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  173
Notes to consolidated financial statements
(a) Level 3 assets as a percentage of total Firm assets accounted for at fair value (including assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis) were 3%, 3% and 4% at December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016
respectively . Level 3 liabilities as a percentage of total Firm liabilities accounted for at fair value (including liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis) were 15%, 15% and 12% at December 31, 2018 ,
2017  and 2016 , respectively .
(b) All level 3 derivatives are presented on a net basis, irrespective of underlying counterparty .
(c) Predominantly reported in principal transactions revenue, except for changes in fair value for CCB mortgage loans, and lending-related commitments originated with the intent to sell, and mortgage loan purchase
commitments, which are reported in mortgage fees and related income.
(d) Realized gains/(losses) on AFS securities, as well as other -than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) losses that are recorded in earnings, are reported in investment securities gains/(losses). Unrealized gains/(losses) are
reported in OCI. Realized gains/(losses) and foreign exchange hedge accounting adjustments recorded in income on AFS securities were $1 million , zero and zero for the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017  and
2016 , respectively . Unrealized gains/(losses) recorded on AFS securities in OCI were zero, $15 million  and $1 million  for the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017  and 2016 , respectively .
(e) Changes in fair value for MSRs are reported in mortgage fees and related income.
(f) Loan originations are included in purchases.
(g) Includes financial assets and liabilities that have matured, been partially or fully repaid, impacts of modifications, deconsolidations associated with beneficial interests in VIEs and other items.
(h) All transfers into and/or out of level 3 are based on changes in the observability and/or significance of the valuation inputs and are assumed to occur at the beginning of the quarterly reporting period in which they
occur .
(i) Realized (gains)/losses due to DV A for fair value option elected liabilities are reported in principal transactions revenue, and they were not material for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively .
Unrealized (gains)/losses are reported in OCI, and they were $(277) million  and $(48) million  for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively .
Level 3 analysis
Consolidated balance sheets changes
Level 3 assets (including assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring
basis) were 0.7% of total Firm assets at December 31, 2018. The
following describes significant changes to level 3 assets since December
31, 2017, for those items measured at fair value on a recurring basis. For
further information on changes impacting items measured at fair value on
a nonrecurring basis, refer to Assets and liabilities measured at fair value
on a nonrecurring basis on page 176.
For the year ended December 31, 2018
Level 3 assets were $17.2 billion at December 31, 2018, reflecting a
decrease of $2.1 billion from December 31, 2017, largely due to:
•$1.2 billion decrease in trading assets — debt and equity instruments
predominantly driven by a decrease of $1.0 billion in trading loans
primarily due to settlements and net sales.
Transfers between levels for instruments carried at
fair value on a recurring basis
During the year ended December 31, 2018, transfers from level 3 into
level 2 included the following:
•$1.5 billion of total debt and equity instruments, the majority of which
were trading loans, driven by an increase in observability.
•$1.2 billion of gross equity derivative receivables and $1.5 billion of
gross equity derivative payables as a result of an increase in
observability and a decrease in the significance of unobservable
inputs.
During the year ended December 31, 2018, transfers from level 2 into
level 3 included the following:
•$1.4 billion of total debt and equity instruments, the majority of which
were trading loans, driven by a decrease in observability.
•$1.0 billion of gross equity derivative receivables and $1.6 billion of
gross equity derivative payables as a result of a decrease in
observability and an increase in the significance of unobservable
inputs.
•$1.1 billion of long-term debt driven by a decrease in observability
and an increase in the significance of unobservable inputs for certain
structured notes.
During the year ended December 31, 2017, transfers from level 3 into
level 2 included the following:
•$1.5 billion of trading loans driven by an increase in observability. •$1.2 billion of gross equity derivative payables as a result of an
increase in observability and a decrease in the significance of
unobservable inputs.
During the year ended December 31, 2017, transfers from level 2 into
level 3 included the following:
•$1.0 billion of gross equity derivative receivables and $2.5 billion of
gross equity derivative payables as a result of a decrease in
observability and an increase in the significance of unobservable
inputs.
•$1.7 billion of long-term debt driven by a decrease in observability
and an increase in the significance of unobservable inputs for certain
structured notes.
During the year ended December 31, 2016, transfers from level 3 into
level 2 included the following:
•$1.4 billion of long-term debt driven by an increase in observability
and a reduction in the significance of unobservable inputs for certain
structured notes.
During the year ended December 31, 2016, transfers from level 2 into
level 3 included the following:
•$1.1 billion of gross equity derivative receivables and $1.0 billion of
gross equity derivative payables as a result of an decrease in
observability and an increase in the significance of unobservable
inputs.
•$1.0 billion of trading loans driven by a decrease in observability.
All transfers are based on changes in the observability and/or significance
of the valuation inputs and are assumed to occur at the beginning of the
quarterly reporting period in which they occur.
Gains and losses
The following describes significant components of total
realized/unrealized gains/(losses) for instruments measured at fair value
on a recurring basis for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and
2016. For further information on these instruments, refer to Changes in
level 3 recurring fair value measurements rollforward tables on pages
170-174.
2018
•$1.6 billion of net gains on liabilities largely driven by market
movements in long-term debt.
2017
•$1.3 billion of net losses on liabilities predominantly driven by market
movements in long-term debt.
2016
•There were no individually significant movements for the year ended
December 31, 2016.
174  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Credit and funding adjustments – derivatives
Derivatives are generally valued using models that use as their basis
observable market parameters. These market parameters generally do
not consider factors such as counterparty nonperformance risk, the
Firm’s own credit quality, and funding costs. Therefore, it is generally
necessary to make adjustments to the base estimate of fair value to
reflect these factors.
CVA represents the adjustment, relative to the relevant benchmark
interest rate, necessary to reflect counterparty nonperformance risk.
The Firm estimates CVA using a scenario analysis to estimate the
expected positive credit exposure across all of the Firm’s existing
positions with each counterparty, and then estimates losses based on
the probability of default and estimated recovery rate as a result of a
counterparty credit event considering contractual factors designed to
mitigate the Firm’s credit exposure, such as collateral and legal rights
of offset. The key inputs to this methodology are (i) the probability of
a default event occurring for each counterparty, as derived from
observed or estimated CDS spreads; and (ii) estimated recovery rates
implied by CDS spreads, adjusted to consider the differences in
recovery rates as a derivative creditor relative to those reflected in
CDS spreads, which generally reflect senior unsecured creditor risk.
FVA represents the adjustment to reflect the impact of funding and is
recognized where there is evidence that a market participant in the
principal market would incorporate it in a transfer of the instrument.
The Firm’s FVA framework, applied to uncollateralized (including
partially collateralized) over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives
incorporates key inputs such as: (i) the expected funding requirements
arising from the Firm’s positions with each counterparty and collateral arrangements; and (ii) the estimated
market funding cost in the principal market which, for derivative
liabilities, considers the Firm’s credit risk (DVA). For collateralized
derivatives, the fair value is estimated by discounting expected future
cash flows at the relevant overnight indexed swap rate given the
underlying collateral agreement with the counterparty, and therefore a
separate FVA is not necessary.
The following table provides the impact of credit and funding
adjustments on principal transactions revenue in the respective periods,
excluding the effect of any associated hedging activities. The FVA
presented below includes the impact of the Firm’s own credit quality
on the inception value of liabilities as well as the impact of changes in
the Firm’s own credit quality over time.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Credit and funding adjustments:   
Derivatives CVA $ 193 $ 802 $ (84)
Derivatives FVA (74) (295) 7
Valuation adjustments on fair value option elected liabilities
The valuation of the Firm’s liabilities for which the fair value option
has been elected requires consideration of the Firm’s own credit risk.
DVA on fair value option elected liabilities reflects changes
(subsequent to the issuance of the liability) in the Firm’s probability of
default and LGD, which are estimated based on changes in the Firm’s
credit spread observed in the bond market. Realized (gains)/losses due
to DVA for fair value option elected liabilities are reported in principal
transactions revenue. Unrealized (gains)/losses are reported in OCI.
Refer to page 174 in this Note and Note 23 for further information.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  175
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis
The following tables present the assets held as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, for which a nonrecurring fair value adjustment was
recorded during the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, by major product category and fair value hierarchy.
 Fair value hierarchy
Total fair value December 31, 2018 (in millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Loans $ — $ 273 $ 264(b) $ 537
Other assets(a) — 8 815 823
Total assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis $ — $ 281 $ 1,079  $ 1,360
 Fair value hierarchy
Total fair value December 31, 2017 (in millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Loans $ — $ 238 $ 596 $ 834
Other assets — 283 183 466
Total assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis $ — $ 521 $ 779 $ 1,300
(a) Primarily includes equity securities without readily determinable fair values that were adjusted based on observable price changes in orderly transactions from an identical or similar
investment of the same issuer (measurement alternative) as a result of the adoption of the recognition and measurement guidance. Of the $815 million in level 3 assets measured at
fair value on a nonrecurring basis as of December 31, 2018, $667 million related to such equity securities. These equity securities are classified as level 3 due to the infrequency of
the observable prices and/or the restrictions on the shares.
(b) Of the $264 million in level 3 assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis as of December 31, 2018, $225 million related to residential real estate loans carried at the net
realizable value of the underlying collateral (e.g., collateral-dependent loans and other loans charged off in accordance with regulatory guidance). These amounts are classified as
level 3 as they are valued using information from broker’s price opinions, appraisals and automated valuation models and discounted based upon the Firm’s experience with actual
liquidation values. These discounts ranged from 13% to 54% with a weighted average of 25%.
There were no material liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis at December 31, 2018 and 2017.
Nonrecurring fair value changes
The following table presents the total change in value of assets and
liabilities for which a fair value adjustment has been recognized for the
years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, related to financial
instruments held at those dates.
December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 2016 
Loans $ (68) $(159) $ (209) 
Other assets 132(a) (148) 37 
Accounts payable and other
liabilities — (1) — 
Total nonrecurring fair value
gains/(losses) $ 64 $(308) $ (172) 
(a) Included $149 million for the year ended 2018 of net gains as a result of the
measurement alternative.
For further information about the measurement of impaired collateral-
dependent loans, and other loans where the carrying value is based on
the fair value of the underlying collateral (e.g., residential mortgage
loans charged off in accordance with regulatory guidance), refer to
Note 12.
176  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Equity securities without readily determinable fair values
As a result of the adoption of the recognition and measurement guidance and the election of the measurement alternative in the first quarter of 2018,
the Firm measures certain equity securities without readily determinable fair values at cost less impairment (if any), plus or minus observable price
changes from an identical or similar investment of the same issuer, with such changes recognized in other income.
In its determination of the new carrying values upon observable price changes, the Firm may adjust the prices if deemed necessary to arrive at the
Firm’s estimated fair values. Such adjustments may include adjustments to reflect the different rights and obligations of similar securities, and other
adjustments that are consistent with the Firm’s valuation techniques for private equity direct investments.
The following table presents the carrying value of equity securities without readily determinable fair values held as of December 31, 2018, that are
measured under the measurement alternative and the related adjustments recorded during the periods presented for those securities with observable
price changes. These securities are included in the nonrecurring fair value tables when applicable price changes are observable.
 As of or for the
(in millions)Year ended
 December 31, 2018
Other assets
Carrying value $ 1,510
Upward carrying value changes 309
Downward carrying value changes/impairment (160)
Included in other assets above is the Firm’s interest in approximately 40 million Visa Class B shares, recorded at a nominal carrying value. These
shares are subject to certain transfer restrictions currently and will be convertible into Visa Class A shares upon final resolution of certain litigation
matters involving Visa. The conversion rate of Visa Class B shares into Visa Class A shares is 1.6298 at December 31, 2018, and may be adjusted by
Visa depending on developments related to the litigation matters.
Additional disclosures about the fair value of financial instruments
that are not carried on the Consolidated balance sheets at fair
value
U.S. GAAP requires disclosure of the estimated fair value of certain
financial instruments. Financial instruments within the scope of these
disclosure requirements are included in the following table. However,
certain financial instruments and all nonfinancial instruments are
excluded from the scope of these disclosure requirements.
Accordingly, the fair value disclosures provided in the following table
include only a partial estimate of the fair value of JPMorgan Chase’s
assets and liabilities. For example, the Firm has developed long-term
relationships with its customers through its deposit base and credit card
accounts, commonly referred to as core deposit intangibles and credit
card relationships. In the opinion of management, these items, in the
aggregate, add significant value to JPMorgan Chase, but their fair
value is not disclosed in this Note. 
Financial instruments for which carrying value approximates fair
value
Certain financial instruments that are not carried at fair value on the
Consolidated balance sheets are carried at amounts that approximate
fair value, due to their short-term nature and generally negligible credit
risk. These instruments include cash and due from banks, deposits with
banks, federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale agreements
and securities borrowed, short-term receivables and accrued interest
receivable, short-term borrowings, federal funds purchased, securities
loaned and sold under repurchase agreements, accounts payable, and
accrued liabilities. In addition, U.S. GAAP requires that the fair value
of deposit liabilities with no stated maturity (i.e., demand, savings and
certain money market deposits) be equal to their carrying value;
recognition of the inherent funding value of these instruments is not
permitted.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  177
Notes to consolidated financial statements
The following table presents by fair value hierarchy classification the carrying values and estimated fair values at December 31, 2018 and 2017, of
financial assets and liabilities, excluding financial instruments that are carried at fair value on a recurring basis, and their classification within the
fair value hierarchy.
 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017
  Estimated fair value hierarchy   Estimated fair value hierarchy  
(in billions)Carrying
value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3Total
estimated
fair valueCarrying
value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3Total
estimated
fair value
Financial assets        
Cash and due from banks $ 22.3$ 22.3$ — $ — $ 22.3 $ 25.9$ 25.9$ — $ — $ 25.9
Deposits with banks 256.5 256.5 — — 256.5 405.4 401.8 3.6 — 405.4
Accrued interest and accounts
receivable 72.0 — 71.9 0.1 72.0 67.0 — 67.0 — 67.0
Federal funds sold and securities
purchased under resale
agreements 308.4 — 308.4 — 308.4 183.7 — 183.7 — 183.7
Securities borrowed 106.9 — 106.9 — 106.9 102.1 — 102.1 — 102.1
Investment securities, held-to-
maturity 31.4 — 31.5 — 31.5 47.7 — 48.7 — 48.7
Loans, net of allowance for loan
losses(a) 968.0 — 241.5 728.5 970.0 914.6 — 213.2 707.1 920.3
Other(b) 60.5 — 59.6 1.0 60.6 53.9 — 52.1 9.2 61.3
Financial liabilities        
Deposits $ 1,447.4$ — $ 1,447.5$ — $ 1,447.5 $ 1,422.7$ — $ 1,422.7$ — $ 1,422.7
Federal funds purchased and
securities loaned or sold under
repurchase agreements 181.4 — 181.4 — 181.4 158.2 — 158.2 — 158.2
Short-term borrowings 62.1 — 62.1 — 62.1 42.6 — 42.4 0.2 42.6
Accounts payable and other
liabilities 160.6 0.2 157.0 3.0 160.2 152.0 — 148.9 2.9 151.8
Beneficial interests issued by
consolidated VIEs 20.2 — 20.2 — 20.2 26.0 — 26.0 — 26.0
Long-term debt and junior
subordinated deferrable interest
debentures 227.1 — 224.6 3.3 227.9 236.6 — 240.3 3.2 243.5
Effective January 1, 2018, the Firm adopted several new accounting standards. Certain of the new accounting standards were applied retrospectively and, accordingly, prior period amounts were revised. For
additional information, refer to Note 1.
(a)Fair value is typically estimated using a discounted cash flow model that incorporates the characteristics of the underlying loans (including principal, contractual interest rate and contractual
fees) and other key inputs, including expected lifetime credit losses, interest rates, prepayment rates, and primary origination or secondary market spreads. For certain loans, the fair value is
measured based on the value of the underlying collateral. The dif ference between the estimated fair value and carrying value of a financial asset or liability is the result of the dif ferent
methodologies used to determine fair value as compared with carrying value. For example, credit losses are estimated for a financial asset’ s remaining life in a fair value calculation but are
estimated for a loss emer gence period in the allowance for loan loss calculation; future loan income (interest and fees) is incorporated in a fair value calculation but is generally not considered in
the allowance for loan losses.
(b)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
The majority of the Firm’s lending-related commitments are not carried at fair value on a recurring basis on the Consolidated balance sheets. The
carrying value of the wholesale allowance for lending-related commitments and the estimated fair value of these wholesale lending-related
commitments were as follows for the periods indicated.
 December 31, 2018  December 31, 2017
 Estimated fair value hierarchy  Estimated fair value hierarchy  
(in billions)Carrying
value(a) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3Total
estimated fair
value  Carrying
value(a) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3Total estimated
fair value
Wholesale lending-related
commitments $ 1.0$ — $ — $ 2.1$ 2.1 $ 1.1$ — $ — $ 1.6$ 1.6
(a)Excludes the current carrying values of the guarantee liability and the offsetting asset, each of which is recognized at fair value at the inception of the guarantees.
The Firm does not estimate the fair value of consumer lending-related commitments. In many cases, the Firm can reduce or cancel these
commitments by providing the borrower notice or, in some cases as permitted by law, without notice. For a further discussion of the valuation of
lending-related commitments, refer to page 161 of this Note.
178  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Note 3 – Fair value option
The fair value option provides an option to elect fair value as an
alternative measurement for selected financial assets, financial
liabilities, unrecognized firm commitments, and written loan
commitments.
The Firm has elected to measure certain instruments at fair value for
several reasons including to mitigate income statement volatility
caused by the differences between the measurement basis of elected
instruments (e.g., certain instruments elected were previously
accounted for on an accrual basis) and the associated risk management
arrangements that are accounted for on a fair value basis, as well as to
better reflect those instruments that are managed on a fair value basis. The Firm’s election of fair value includes the following instruments:
•Loans purchased or originated as part of securitization warehousing
activity, subject to bifurcation accounting, or managed on a fair
value basis, including lending-related commitments
•Certain securities financing agreements, such as those with an
embedded derivative and/or a maturity of greater than one year
•Owned beneficial interests in securitized financial assets that
contain embedded credit derivatives, which would otherwise be
required to be separately accounted for as a derivative instrument
•Structured notes, which are predominantly financial instruments
that contain embedded derivatives, that are issued as part of CIB’s
client-driven activities
•Certain long-term beneficial interests issued by CIB’s consolidated
securitization trusts where the underlying assets are carried at fair
value
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  179
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Changes in fair value under the fair value option election
The following table presents the changes in fair value included in the Consolidated statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2018,
2017 and 2016, for items for which the fair value option was elected. The profit and loss information presented below only includes the financial
instruments that were elected to be measured at fair value; related risk management instruments, which are required to be measured at fair value, are
not included in the table.
 2018 2017  2016
December 31, (in millions)Principal
transactionsAll other
incomeTotal changes
in fair value
recorded(e)Principal
transactionsAll other
incomeTotal changes
in fair value
recorded(e) Principal
transactionsAll other
incomeTotal changes
in fair value
recorded(e)
Federal funds sold and securities
purchased under resale agreements $ (35)$— $ (35)$ (97)$— $ (97) $ (76)$— $ (76)
Securities borrowed 22 — 22 50 — 50 1 — 1
Trading assets:       
Debt and equity instruments, excluding
loans (1,680) 1(c) (1,679) 1,943 2(c) 1,945 120 (1)(c) 119
Loans reported as trading
 assets:       
Changes in instrument-specific
credit risk 414 1(c) 415 330 14(c) 344 461 43(c) 504
Other changes in fair value 160 185(c) 345 217 747(c) 964 79 684(c) 763
Loans:       
Changes in instrument-specific credit
risk (1) — (1) (1) — (1) 13 — 13
Other changes in fair value (1) — (1) (12) 3(c) (9) (7) — (7)
Other assets 5 (45)(d) (40) 11 (55)(d) (44) 20 62(d) 82
Deposits(a) 181 — 181 (533) — (533) (134) — (134)
Federal funds purchased and securities
loaned or sold under repurchase
agreements 11 — 11 11 — 11 19 — 19
Short-term borrowings(a) 862 — 862 (747) — (747) (236) — (236)
Trading liabilities 1 — 1 (1) — (1) 6 — 6
Beneficial interests issued by
consolidated VIEs — — — — — — 23 — 23
Long-term debt(a)(b) 2,695 — 2,695 (2,022) — (2,022) (773) — (773)
(a)Unrealized gains/(losses) due to instrument-specific credit risk (DVA) for liabilities for which the fair value option has been elected is recorded in OCI, while realized gains/(losses)
are recorded in principal transactions revenue. Realized gains/(losses) due to instrument-specific credit risk recorded in principal transactions revenue were not material for the years
ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.
(b)Long-term debt measured at fair value predominantly relates to structured notes. Although the risk associated with the structured notes is actively managed, the gains/(losses)
reported in this table do not include the income statement impact of the risk management instruments used to manage such risk.
(c)Reported in mortgage fees and related income.
(d)Reported in other income.
(e)Changes in fair value exclude contractual interest, which is included in interest income and interest expense for all instruments other than hybrid financial instruments. For further
information regarding interest income and interest expense, refer to Note 7.
Determination of instrument-specific credit risk for items for
which a fair value election was made
The following describes how the gains and losses that are attributable
to changes in instrument-specific credit risk, were determined.
•Loans and lending-related commitments: For floating-rate
instruments, all changes in value are attributed to instrument-
specific credit risk. For fixed-rate instruments, an allocation of the
changes in value for the period is made between those changes in
value that are interest rate-related and changes in value that are
credit-related. Allocations are generally based on an analysis of
borrower-specific credit spread and recovery information, where
available, or benchmarking to similar entities or industries. •Long-term debt: Changes in value attributable to instrument-
specific credit risk were derived principally from observable
changes in the Firm’s credit spread as observed in the bond market.
•Securities financing agreements: Generally, for these types of
agreements, there is a requirement that collateral be maintained
with a market value equal to or in excess of the principal amount
loaned; as a result, there would be no adjustment or an immaterial
adjustment for instrument-specific credit risk related to these
agreements.
180  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Difference between aggregate fair value and aggregate remaining contractual principal balance outstanding
The following table reflects the difference between the aggregate fair value and the aggregate remaining contractual principal balance outstanding as
of December 31, 2018 and 2017, for loans, long-term debt and long-term beneficial interests for which the fair value option has been elected.
 2018 2017
December 31, (in millions)Contractual
principal
outstanding Fair valueFair value
over/(under)
contractual
principal
outstandingContractual
principal
outstanding Fair valueFair value
over/(under)
contractual
principal
outstanding
Loans(a)     
Nonaccrual loans     
Loans reported as trading assets $ 4,240 $ 1,350$ (2,890)$ 4,219 $ 1,371$ (2,848)
Loans 39 — (39) 39 — (39)
Subtotal 4,279 1,350 (2,929) 4,258 1,371 (2,887)
All other performing loans     
Loans reported as trading assets 42,215 40,403 (1,812) 38,157 36,590 (1,567)
Loans 3,186 3,151 (35) 2,539 2,508 (31)
Total loans $ 49,680 $ 44,904$ (4,776)$ 44,954 $ 40,469$ (4,485)
Long-term debt     
Principal-protected debt $ 32,674(c) $ 28,718$ (3,956)$ 26,297(c) $ 23,848$ (2,449)
Nonprincipal-protected debt(b) NA 26,168 NA NA 23,671 NA
Total long-term debt NA $ 54,886 NA NA $ 47,519 NA
Long-term beneficial interests     
Nonprincipal-protected debt(b) NA $ 28 NA NA $ 45 NA
Total long-term beneficial interests NA $ 28 NA NA $ 45 NA
(a)There were no performing loans that were ninety days or more past due as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.
(b)Remaining contractual principal is not applicable to nonprincipal-protected structured notes and long-term beneficial interests. Unlike principal-protected structured notes and long-
term beneficial interests, for which the Firm is obligated to return a stated amount of principal at maturity, nonprincipal-protected structured notes and long-term beneficial interests
do not obligate the Firm to return a stated amount of principal at maturity, but for structured notes to return an amount based on the performance of an underlying variable or
derivative feature embedded in the note. However, investors are exposed to the credit risk of the Firm as issuer for both nonprincipal-protected and principal-protected notes.
(c)Where the Firm issues principal-protected zero-coupon or discount notes, the balance reflects the contractual principal payment at maturity or, if applicable, the contractual principal
payment at the Firm’s next call date.
At December 31, 2018 and 2017, the contractual amount of lending-related commitments for which the fair value option was elected was $6.9
billion and $7.4 billion, respectively, with a corresponding fair value of $(82) million and $(76) million, respectively. For further information
regarding off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments, refer to Note 27.
Structured note products by balance sheet classification and risk component
The following table presents the fair value of structured notes, by balance sheet classification and the primary risk type.
 December 31, 2018  December 31, 2017
(in millions)Long-term
debtShort-term
borrowings Deposits Total  Long-term
debtShort-term
borrowings Deposits Total
Risk exposure       
Interest rate $ 24,137$ 62$12,372$ 36,571 $ 22,056$ 69$ 8,058$ 30,183
Credit 4,009 995 — 5,004 4,329 1,312 — 5,641
Foreign exchange 3,169 157 38 3,364 2,841 147 38 3,026
Equity 21,382 5,422 7,368 34,172 17,581 7,106 6,548 31,235
Commodity 372 34 1,207 1,613 230 15 4,468 4,713
Total structured notes $ 53,069$ 6,670$20,985$ 80,724 $ 47,037$ 8,649$ 19,112$ 74,798
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  181
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 4 – Credit risk concentrations
Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of clients,
counterparties or customers are engaged in similar business activities
or activities in the same geographic region, or when they have similar
economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual
obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic conditions.
JPMorgan Chase regularly monitors various segments of its credit
portfolios to assess potential credit risk concentrations and to obtain
additional collateral when deemed necessary and permitted under the
Firm’s agreements. Senior management is significantly involved in the
credit approval and review process, and risk levels are adjusted as
needed to reflect the Firm’s risk appetite. In the Firm’s consumer portfolio, concentrations are managed
primarily by product and by U.S. geographic region, with a key focus
on trends and concentrations at the portfolio level, where potential
credit risk concentrations can be remedied through changes in
underwriting policies and portfolio guidelines. For additional
information on the geographic composition of the Firm’s consumer
loan portfolios, refer to Note 12. In the wholesale portfolio, credit risk
concentrations are evaluated primarily by industry and monitored
regularly on both an aggregate portfolio level and on an individual
client or counterparty basis.
The Firm’s wholesale exposure is managed through loan syndications
and participations, loan sales, securitizations, credit derivatives, master
netting agreements, collateral and other risk-reduction techniques. For
additional information on loans, refer to Note 12.
The Firm does not believe that its exposure to any particular loan
product or industry segment (e.g., real estate), or its exposure to
residential real estate loans with high LTV ratios, results in a
significant concentration of credit risk.
Terms of loan products and collateral coverage are included in the
Firm’s assessment when extending credit and establishing its
allowance for loan losses.
182  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
The table below presents both on–balance sheet and off–balance sheet consumer and wholesale-related credit exposure by the Firm’s three credit
portfolio segments as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.
As a result of continued growth and the relative size of the portfolio, exposure to “Individuals,” which was previously disclosed in “All Other,” is
now separately disclosed in the table below as “Individuals and Individual Entities.” This category predominantly consists of Wealth Management
clients within AWM and includes exposure to personal investment companies and personal and testamentary trusts. Predominantly all of this
exposure is secured, largely by cash and marketable securities. In the table below, prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the
current period presentation.
 2018  2017  
 
Credit
exposure (g)On-balance sheet
Off-balance
sheet (h) 
Credit
exposure (g)On-balance sheet
Off-balance
sheet (h) 
December 31, (in millions) Loans Derivatives  Loans Derivatives  
Consumer , excluding credit card $ 419,798 $ 373,732 $ — $ 46,066  $ 421,234 $ 372,681 $ — $ 48,553  
Receivables from customers (a) 154 — — — 133 — — — 
Total Consumer , excluding cr edit card 419,952 373,732 — 46,066  421,367 372,681 — 48,553  
Credit card 762,01 1 156,632 — 605,379  722,342 149,51 1 — 572,831  
Total consumer -related 1,181,963 530,364 — 651,445  1,143,709 522,192 — 621,384  
Wholesale-r elated (b)      
Real Estate 143,316 115,737 164 27,415  139,409 113,648 153 25,608  
Individuals and Individual Entities (c) 97,077 86,586 1,017 9,474  87,371 77,768 1,252 8,351  
Consumer & Retail 94,815 36,921 1,093 56,801  87,679 31,044 1,114 55,521  
Technology , Media & Telecommunications 72,646 16,980 2,667 52,999  59,274 13,665 2,265 43,344  
Industrials 58,528 19,126 958 38,444  55,272 18,161 1,163 35,948  
Banks & Finance Cos 49,920 28,825 5,903 15,192  49,037 25,879 6,816 16,342  
Healthcare 48,142 16,347 1,874 29,921  55,997 16,273 2,191 37,533  
Asset Managers 42,807 16,806 9,033 16,968  32,531 11,480 7,998 13,053  
Oil & Gas 42,600 13,008 559 29,033  41,317 12,621 1,727 26,969  
Utilities 28,172 5,591 1,740 20,841  29,317 6,187 2,084 21,046  
State & Municipal Govt (d) 27,351 10,319 2,000 15,032  28,633 12,134 2,888 13,61 1 
Central Govt 18,456 3,867 12,869 1,720  19,182 3,375 13,937 1,870  
Automotive 17,339 5,170 399 11,770  14,820 4,903 342 9,575  
Chemicals & Plastics 16,035 4,902 181 10,952  15,945 5,654 208 10,083  
Transportation 15,660 6,391 1,102 8,167  15,797 6,733 977 8,087  
Metals & Mining 15,359 5,370 488 9,501  14,171 4,728 702 8,741  
Insurance 12,639 1,356 2,569 8,714  14,089 1,411 2,804 9,874  
Financial Markets Infrastructure 7,484 18 5,941 1,525  5,036 351 3,499 1,186  
Securities Firms 4,558 645 2,029 1,884  4,113 952 1,692 1,469  
All other (e) 68,284 45,197 1,627 21,460  60,529 35,931 2,711 21,887  
Subtotal 881,188 439,162 54,213 387,813  829,519 402,898 56,523 370,098  
Loans held-for -sale and loans at fair value 15,028 15,028 — — 5,607 5,607 — — 
Receivables from customers and other (a) 30,063 — — — 26,139 — — — 
Total wholesale-r elated 926,279 454,190 54,213 387,813  861,265 408,505 56,523 370,098  
Total exposur e(f)(g) $2,108,242 $ 984,554 $ 54,213 $1,039,258  $2,004,974 $ 930,697 $ 56,523 $ 991,482  
(a)Receivables from customers primarily represent held-for-investment margin loans to brokerage customers (Prime Services in CIB, AWM and CCB) that are collateralized through assets
maintained in the clients’ brokerage accounts, as such no allowance is held against these receivables. These receivables are reported within accrued interest and accounts receivable on
the Firm’s Consolidated balance sheets.
(b)The industry rankings presented in the table as of December 31, 2017, are based on the industry rankings of the corresponding exposures at December 31, 2018, not actual rankings of
such exposures at December 31, 2017.
(c)Individuals and Individual Entities predominantly consists of Wealth Management clients within AWM and includes exposure to personal investment companies and personal and
testamentary trusts.
(d)In addition to the credit risk exposure to states and municipal governments (both U.S. and non-U.S.) at December 31, 2018 and 2017, noted above, the Firm held: $7.8 billion and $9.8
billion, respectively, of trading securities; $37.7 billion and $32.3 billion, respectively, of AFS securities; and $4.8 billion and $14.4 billion, respectively, of held-to-maturity (“HTM”)
securities, issued by U.S. state and municipal governments. For further information, refer to Note 2 and Note 10.
(e)All other includes: SPEs and Private education and civic organizations, representing approximately 92% and 8%, respectively, at December 31, 2018 and 90% and 10%, respectively, at
December 31, 2017. For more information on exposures to SPEs, refer to Note 14.
(f)Excludes cash placed with banks of $268.1 billion and $421.0 billion, at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, which is predominantly placed with various central banks, primarily
Federal Reserve Banks.
(g)Credit exposure is net of risk participations and excludes the benefit of credit derivatives used in credit portfolio management activities held against derivative receivables or loans and
liquid securities and other cash collateral held against derivative receivables.
(h)Represents lending-related financial instruments.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  183
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 5 – Derivative instruments
Derivative contracts derive their value from underlying asset prices,
indices, reference rates, other inputs or a combination of these factors
and may expose counterparties to risks and rewards of an underlying
asset or liability without having to initially invest in, own or exchange
the asset or liability. JPMorgan Chase makes markets in derivatives for
clients and also uses derivatives to hedge or manage its own risk
exposures. Predominantly all of the Firm’s derivatives are entered into
for market-making or risk management purposes.
Market-making derivatives
The majority of the Firm’s derivatives are entered into for market-
making purposes. Clients use derivatives to mitigate or modify interest
rate, credit, foreign exchange, equity and commodity risks. The Firm
actively manages the risks from its exposure to these derivatives by
entering into other derivative contracts or by purchasing or selling
other financial instruments that partially or fully offset the exposure
from client derivatives.
Risk management derivatives
The Firm manages certain market and credit risk exposures using
derivative instruments, including derivatives in hedge accounting
relationships and other derivatives that are used to manage risks
associated with specified assets and liabilities.
The Firm generally uses interest rate contracts to manage the risk
associated with changes in interest rates. Fixed-rate assets and
liabilities appreciate or depreciate in market value as interest rates
change. Similarly, interest income and expense increases or decreases
as a result of variable-rate assets and liabilities resetting to current
market rates, and as a result of the repayment and subsequent
origination or issuance of fixed-rate assets and liabilities at current
market rates. Gains and losses on the derivative instruments related to
these assets and liabilities are expected to substantially offset this
variability.
Foreign currency forward contracts are used to manage the foreign
exchange risk associated with certain foreign currency–denominated
(i.e., non-U.S. dollar) assets and liabilities and forecasted transactions,
as well as the Firm’s net investments in certain non-U.S. subsidiaries
or branches whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. As a
result of fluctuations in foreign currencies, the U.S. dollar–equivalent
values of the foreign currency–denominated assets and liabilities or the
forecasted revenues or expenses increase or decrease. Gains or losses
on the derivative instruments related to these foreign currency–
denominated assets or liabilities, or forecasted transactions, are
expected to substantially offset this variability. Commodities contracts are used to manage the price risk of certain
commodities inventories. Gains or losses on these derivative
instruments are expected to substantially offset the depreciation or
appreciation of the related inventory.
Credit derivatives are used to manage the counterparty credit risk
associated with loans and lending-related commitments. Credit
derivatives compensate the purchaser when the entity referenced in the
contract experiences a credit event, such as bankruptcy or a failure to
pay an obligation when due. Credit derivatives primarily consist of
CDS. For a further discussion of credit derivatives, refer to the
discussion in the Credit derivatives section on pages 195-197 of this
Note.
For more information about risk management derivatives, refer to the
risk management derivatives gains and losses table on page 195 of this
Note, and the hedge accounting gains and losses tables on pages 192-
195 of this Note.
Derivative counterparties and settlement types
The Firm enters into OTC derivatives, which are negotiated and settled
bilaterally with the derivative counterparty. The Firm also enters into,
as principal, certain ETD such as futures and options, and OTC-cleared
derivative contracts with CCPs. ETD contracts are generally
standardized contracts traded on an exchange and cleared by the CCP,
which is the Firm’s counterparty from the inception of the transactions.
OTC-cleared derivatives are traded on a bilateral basis and then
novated to the CCP for clearing.
Derivative clearing services
The Firm provides clearing services for clients in which the Firm acts
as a clearing member at certain derivative exchanges and clearing
houses. The Firm does not reflect the clients’ derivative contracts in its
Consolidated Financial Statements. For further information on the
Firm’s clearing services, refer to Note 27.
Accounting for derivatives
All free-standing derivatives that the Firm executes for its own account
are required to be recorded on the Consolidated balance sheets at fair
value.
As permitted under U.S. GAAP, the Firm nets derivative assets and
liabilities, and the related cash collateral receivables and payables,
when a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists between
the Firm and the derivative counterparty. For further discussion of the
offsetting of assets and liabilities, refer to Note 1. The accounting for
changes in value of a derivative depends on whether or not the
transaction has been designated and qualifies for hedge accounting.
Derivatives that are not designated as hedges are reported and
measured at fair value through earnings. The tabular disclosures on
pages 188-195 of this Note provide additional information on the
amount of, and reporting for, derivative assets, liabilities, gains and
losses. For further discussion of derivatives embedded in structured
notes, refer to Notes 2 and 3.
184  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Derivatives designated as hedges
The Firm adopted new hedge accounting guidance in the first quarter
of 2018, which required prospective amendments to the disclosures, as
reflected in this Note. For additional information on the impact upon
adoption of the new guidance, refer to Notes 1 and 23.
The Firm applies hedge accounting to certain derivatives executed for
risk management purposes – generally interest rate, foreign exchange
and commodity derivatives. However, JPMorgan Chase does not seek
to apply hedge accounting to all of the derivatives involved in the
Firm’s risk management activities. For example, the Firm does not
apply hedge accounting to purchased CDS used to manage the credit
risk of loans and lending-related commitments, because of the
difficulties in qualifying such contracts as hedges. For the same reason,
the Firm does not apply hedge accounting to certain interest rate,
foreign exchange, and commodity derivatives used for risk
management purposes.
To qualify for hedge accounting, a derivative must be highly effective
at reducing the risk associated with the exposure being hedged. In
addition, for a derivative to be designated as a hedge, the risk
management objective and strategy must be documented. Hedge
documentation must identify the derivative hedging instrument, the
asset or liability or forecasted transaction and type of risk to be
hedged, and how the effectiveness of the derivative is assessed
prospectively and retrospectively. To assess effectiveness, the Firm
uses statistical methods such as regression analysis, nonstatistical
methods such as dollar-value comparisons of the change in the fair
value of the derivative to the change in the fair value or cash flows of
the hedged item, and qualitative comparisons of critical terms and the
evaluation of any changes in those terms. The extent to which a
derivative has been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective
at offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item
must be assessed and documented at least quarterly. If it is determined
that a derivative is not highly effective at hedging the designated
exposure, hedge accounting is discontinued. There are three types of hedge accounting designations: fair value
hedges, cash flow hedges and net investment hedges. JPMorgan Chase
uses fair value hedges primarily to hedge fixed-rate long-term debt,
AFS securities and certain commodities inventories. For qualifying fair
value hedges, the changes in the fair value of the derivative, and in the
value of the hedged item for the risk being hedged, are recognized in
earnings. Certain amounts excluded from the assessment of
effectiveness are recorded in OCI and recognized in earnings over the
life of the derivative. If the hedge relationship is terminated, then the
adjustment to the hedged item continues to be reported as part of the
basis of the hedged item, and for benchmark interest rate hedges, is
amortized to earnings as a yield adjustment. Derivative amounts
affecting earnings are recognized consistent with the classification of
the hedged item – primarily net interest income and principal
transactions revenue.
JPMorgan Chase uses cash flow hedges primarily to hedge the
exposure to variability in forecasted cash flows from floating-rate
assets and liabilities and foreign currency–denominated revenue and
expense. For qualifying cash flow hedges, changes in the fair value of
the derivative are recorded in OCI and recognized in earnings as the
hedged item affects earnings. Derivative amounts affecting earnings
are recognized consistent with the classification of the hedged item –
primarily interest income, interest expense, noninterest revenue and
compensation expense. If the hedge relationship is terminated, then the
change in value of the derivative recorded in AOCI is recognized in
earnings when the cash flows that were hedged affect earnings. For
hedge relationships that are discontinued because a forecasted
transaction is not expected to occur according to the original hedge
forecast, any related derivative values recorded in AOCI are
immediately recognized in earnings.
JPMorgan Chase uses net investment hedges to protect the value of the
Firm’s net investments in certain non-U.S. subsidiaries or branches
whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. For qualifying net
investment hedges, changes in the fair value of the derivatives due to
changes in spot foreign exchange rates are recorded in OCI as
translation adjustments. Amounts excluded from the assessment of
effectiveness are recorded directly in earnings.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  185
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•Notes to consolidated financial statements
The following table outlines the Firm’s primary uses of derivatives and the related hedge accounting designation or disclosure category.
Type of Derivative Use of Derivative Designation and disclosureAffected segment
or unitPage
reference
Manage specifically identified risk exposures in qualifying hedge accounting relationships:   
Interest rate Hedge fixed rate assets and liabilities Fair value hedge Corporate 192
Interest rate Hedge floating-rate assets and liabilities Cash flow hedge Corporate 194
Foreign exchange Hedge foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities Fair value hedge Corporate 192
Foreign exchange Hedge foreign currency-denominated forecasted revenue and expense Cash flow hedge Corporate 194
Foreign exchange Hedge the value of the Firm’s investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency
entitiesNet investment hedge Corporate 195
Commodity Hedge commodity inventory Fair value hedge CIB 192
Manage specifically identified risk exposures not designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships:   
Interest rate Manage the risk of the mortgage pipeline, warehouse loans and MSRs Specified risk management CCB 195
Credit Manage the credit risk of wholesale lending exposures Specified risk management CIB 195
Interest rate and foreign
exchangeManage the risk of certain other specified assets and liabilities Specified risk management Corporate 195
Market-making derivatives and other activities:   
Various Market-making and related risk management Market-making and other CIB 195
Various Other derivatives Market-making and other CIB, Corporate 195
186  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Notional amount of derivative contracts
The following table summarizes the notional amount of derivative
contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.
 Notional amounts(b)
December 31, (in billions) 2018 2017  
Interest rate contracts    
Swaps $ 21,763$ 21,043 
Futures and forwards 3,562 4,904 
Written options 3,997 3,576 
Purchased options 4,322 3,987 
Total interest rate contracts 33,644 33,510 
Credit derivatives(a) 1,501 1,522 
Foreign exchange contracts    
Cross-currency swaps 3,548 3,953 
Spot, futures and forwards 5,871 5,923 
Written options 835 786 
Purchased options 830 776 
Total foreign exchange contracts 11,084 11,438 
Equity contracts    
Swaps 346 367 
Futures and forwards 101 90 
Written options 528 531 
Purchased options 490 453 
Total equity contracts 1,465 1,441 
Commodity contracts    
Swaps 134 133(c) 
Spot, futures and forwards 156 168 
Written options 135 98 
Purchased options 120 93 
Total commodity contracts 545 492(c) 
Total derivative notional amounts $ 48,239$ 48,403(c) 
(a)For more information on volumes and types of credit derivative contracts, refer to
the Credit derivatives discussion on pages 195-197.
(b)Represents the sum of gross long and gross short third-party notional derivative
contracts.
(c)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period
presentation.
While the notional amounts disclosed above give an indication of the
volume of the Firm’s derivatives activity, the notional amounts
significantly exceed, in the Firm’s view, the possible losses that could
arise from such transactions. For most derivative contracts, the
notional amount is not exchanged; it is used simply as a reference to
calculate payments.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  187
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Impact of derivatives on the Consolidated balance sheets
The following table summarizes information on derivative receivables and payables (before and after netting adjustments) that are reflected on the
Firm’s Consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, by accounting designation (e.g., whether the derivatives were designated in
qualifying hedge accounting relationships or not) and contract type.
Free-standing derivative receivables and payables(a)     
 Gross derivative receivables  Gross derivative payables
December 31, 2018
(in millions)Not designated
as hedgesDesignated as
hedgesTotal derivative
receivables Net derivative
receivables(b)Not designated
as hedges Designated as
hedges  Total
derivative
payablesNet
derivative
payables(b)
Trading assets and liabilities      
Interest rate $ 267,871 $ 833 $ 268,704 $ 23,214 $ 242,782 $ — $242,782 $ 7,784
Credit 20,095 — 20,095 612 20,276 — 20,276 1,667
Foreign exchange 167,057 628 167,685 13,450 164,392 825 165,217 12,785
Equity 49,285 — 49,285 9,946 51,195 — 51,195 10,161
Commodity 20,223 247 20,470 6,991 22,297 121 22,418 9,372
Total fair value of trading
assets and liabilities $ 524,531 $ 1,708 $ 526,239 $ 54,213 $ 500,942 $ 946 $501,888 $ 41,769
       
 Gross derivative receivables  Gross derivative payables
December 31, 2017
(in millions)Not designated
as hedgesDesignated as
hedgesTotal derivative
receivables Net derivative
receivables(b)Not designated
as hedges Designated as
hedges  Total
derivative
payablesNet
derivative
payables(b)
Trading assets and liabilities      
Interest rate $ 314,962(c) $ 1,030(c) $ 315,992 $ 24,673 $ 284,433(c) $ 3(c) $284,436 $ 7,129
Credit 23,205 — 23,205 869 23,252 — 23,252 1,299
Foreign exchange 159,740 491 160,231 16,151 154,601 1,221 155,822 12,473
Equity 40,040 — 40,040 7,882 45,395 — 45,395 9,192
Commodity 20,066 19 20,085 6,948 21,498 403 21,901 7,684
Total fair value of trading
assets and liabilities $ 558,013(c) $ 1,540(c) $ 559,553 $ 56,523 $ 529,179(c) $ 1,627(c) $530,806 $ 37,777
(a)Balances exclude structured notes for which the fair value option has been elected. Refer to Note 3 for further information.
(b)As permitted under U.S. GAAP, the Firm has elected to net derivative receivables and derivative payables and the related cash collateral receivables and payables when a legally
enforceable master netting agreement exists.
(c)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
188  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Derivatives netting
The following tables present, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, gross and net derivative receivables and payables by contract and settlement type.
Derivative receivables and payables, as well as the related cash collateral from the same counterparty, have been netted on the Consolidated balance
sheets where the Firm has obtained an appropriate legal opinion with respect to the master netting agreement. Where such a legal opinion has not
been either sought or obtained, amounts are not eligible for netting on the Consolidated balance sheets, and those derivative receivables and
payables are shown separately in the tables below.
In addition to the cash collateral received and transferred that is presented on a net basis with derivative receivables and payables, the Firm receives
and transfers additional collateral (financial instruments and cash). These amounts mitigate counterparty credit risk associated with the Firm’s
derivative instruments, but are not eligible for net presentation:
•collateral that consists of non-cash financial instruments (generally U.S. government and agency securities and other G7 government securities)
and cash collateral held at third party custodians, which are shown separately as “Collateral not nettable on the Consolidated balance sheets” in
the tables below, up to the fair value exposure amount.
•the amount of collateral held or transferred that exceeds the fair value exposure at the individual counterparty level, as of the date presented,
which is excluded from the tables below; and
•collateral held or transferred that relates to derivative receivables or payables where an appropriate legal opinion has not been either sought or
obtained with respect to the master netting agreement, which is excluded from the tables below.
 2018  2017
December 31, (in millions)Gross derivative
receivablesAmounts netted on
the Consolidated
balance sheetsNet derivative
receivables Gross
derivative
receivablesAmounts netted on
the Consolidated
balance sheetsNet
derivative
receivables
U.S. GAAP nettable derivative receivables     
Interest rate contracts:     
OTC $ 258,227$ (239,498) $ 18,729 $ 305,569 $ (284,917) $20,652 
OTC–cleared 6,404 (5,856) 548 6,531 (6,318) 213 
Exchange-traded(a) 322 (136) 186 185 (84) 101 
Total interest rate contracts 264,953 (245,490) 19,463 312,285 (291,319) 20,966 
Credit contracts:     
OTC 12,648 (12,261) 387 15,390 (15,165) 225 
OTC–cleared 7,267 (7,222) 45 7,225 (7,170) 55 
Total credit contracts 19,915 (19,483) 432 22,615 (22,335) 280 
Foreign exchange contracts:     
OTC 163,862 (153,988) 9,874 155,289 (142,420) 12,869 
OTC–cleared 235 (226) 9 1,696 (1,654) 42 
Exchange-traded(a) 32 (21) 11 141 (7) 134 
Total foreign exchange contracts 164,129 (154,235) 9,894 157,126 (144,081) 13,045 
Equity contracts:     
OTC 26,178 (23,879) 2,299 22,024 (19,917) 2,107 
Exchange-traded(a) 18,876 (15,460) 3,416 14,188 (12,241) 1,947 
Total equity contracts 45,054 (39,339) 5,715 36,212 (32,158) 4,054 
Commodity contracts:     
OTC 7,448 (5,261) 2,187 7,204(e) (4,436) 2,768(e) 
Exchange-traded(a) 8,815 (8,218) 597 8,854 (8,701) 153 
Total commodity contracts 16,263 (13,479) 2,784 16,058(e) (13,137) 2,921(e) 
Derivative receivables with appropriate legal opinion 510,314 (472,026) 38,288(d) 544,296(e) (503,030) 41,266(d)(e) 
Derivative receivables where an appropriate legal
opinion has not been either sought or obtained 15,925 15,925 15,257(e) 15,257(e) 
Total derivative receivables recognized on the
Consolidated balance sheets $ 526,239 $ 54,213 $ 559,553 $56,523 
Collateral not nettable on the Consolidated balance
sheets(b)(c)  (13,046)  (13,363) 
Net amounts  $ 41,167  $43,160 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  189
Notes to consolidated financial statements
 2018 2017
December 31, (in millions)Gross derivative
payablesAmounts netted on
the Consolidated
balance sheetsNet derivative
payablesGross
derivative
payablesAmounts netted on
the Consolidated
balance sheetsNet
derivative payables
U.S. GAAP nettable derivative payables       
Interest rate contracts:       
OTC $ 233,404$ (228,369) $ 5,035 $ 276,960 $ (271,294) $ 5,666 
OTC–cleared 7,163 (6,494) 669 6,004 (5,928) 76 
Exchange-traded(a) 210 (135) 75 127 (84) 43 
Total interest rate contracts 240,777 (234,998) 5,779 283,091 (277,306) 5,785 
Credit contracts:       
OTC 13,412 (11,895) 1,517 16,194 (15,170) 1,024 
OTC–cleared 6,716 (6,714) 2 6,801 (6,784) 17 
Total credit contracts 20,128 (18,609) 1,519 22,995 (21,954) 1,041 
Foreign exchange contracts:       
OTC 160,930 (152,161) 8,769 150,966 (141,789) 9,177 
OTC–cleared 274 (268) 6 1,555 (1,553) 2 
Exchange-traded(a) 16 (3) 13 98 (7) 91 
Total foreign exchange contracts 161,220 (152,432) 8,788 152,619 (143,349) 9,270 
Equity contracts:       
OTC 29,437 (25,544) 3,893 28,193 (23,969) 4,224 
Exchange-traded(a) 16,285 (15,490) 795 12,720 (12,234) 486 
Total equity contracts 45,722 (41,034) 4,688 40,913 (36,203) 4,710 
Commodity contracts:       
OTC 8,930 (4,838) 4,092 7,697(e) (5,508) 2,189(e) 
Exchange-traded(a) 8,259 (8,208) 51 8,870 (8,709) 161 
Total commodity contracts 17,189 (13,046) 4,143 16,567(e) (14,217) 2,350(e) 
Derivative payables with appropriate legal opinion 485,036 (460,119) 24,917(d) 516,185(e) (493,029) 23,156(d)(e) 
Derivative payables where an appropriate legal opinion
has not been either sought or obtained 16,852  16,852 14,621(e)  14,621(e) 
Total derivative payables recognized on the
Consolidated balance sheets $ 501,888  $ 41,769 $ 530,806  $37,777 
Collateral not nettable on the Consolidated balance
sheets(b)(c)   (4,449)   (4,180) 
Net amounts   $ 37,320   $33,597 
(a)Exchange-traded derivative balances that relate to futures contracts are settled daily.
(b)Represents liquid security collateral as well as cash collateral held at third-party custodians related to derivative instruments where an appropriate legal opinion has been obtained.
For some counterparties, the collateral amounts of financial instruments may exceed the derivative receivables and derivative payables balances. Where this is the case, the total
amount reported is limited to the net derivative receivables and net derivative payables balances with that counterparty.
(c)Derivative collateral relates only to OTC and OTC-cleared derivative instruments.
(d)Net derivatives receivable included cash collateral netted of $55.2 billion and $55.5 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Net derivatives payable included cash
collateral netted of $43.3 billion and $45.5 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Derivative cash collateral relates to OTC and OTC-cleared derivative instruments.
(e)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
190  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Liquidity risk and credit-related contingent features
In addition to the specific market risks introduced by each derivative
contract type, derivatives expose JPMorgan Chase to credit risk — the
risk that derivative counterparties may fail to meet their payment
obligations under the derivative contracts and the collateral, if any,
held by the Firm proves to be of insufficient value to cover the
payment obligation. It is the policy of JPMorgan Chase to actively
pursue, where possible, the use of legally enforceable master netting
arrangements and collateral agreements to mitigate derivative
counterparty credit risk. The amount of derivative receivables reported
on the Consolidated balance sheets is the fair value of the derivative
contracts after giving effect to legally enforceable master netting
agreements and cash collateral held by the Firm.
While derivative receivables expose the Firm to credit risk, derivative
payables expose the Firm to liquidity risk, as the derivative contracts
typically require the Firm to post cash or securities collateral with
counterparties as the fair v alue of the contracts moves in the counterparties’ favor or upon
specified downgrades in the Firm’s and its subsidiaries’ respective
credit ratings. Certain derivative contracts also provide for termination
of the contract, generally upon a downgrade of either the Firm or the
counterparty, at the fair value of the derivative contracts. The
following table shows the aggregate fair value of net derivative
payables related to OTC and OTC-cleared derivatives that contain
contingent collateral or termination features that may be triggered
upon a ratings downgrade, and the associated collateral the Firm has
posted in the normal course of business, at December 31, 2018 and
2017.
OTC and OTC-cleared derivative payables containing downgrade
triggers
December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017
Aggregate fair value of net derivative payables $ 9,396$ 11,916
Collateral posted 8,907 9,973
The following table shows the impact of a single-notch and two-notch downgrade of the long-term issuer ratings of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its
subsidiaries, predominantly JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (“JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.”), at December 31, 2018 and 2017, related
to OTC and OTC-cleared derivative contracts with contingent collateral or termination features that may be triggered upon a ratings downgrade.
Derivatives contracts generally require additional collateral to be posted or terminations to be triggered when the predefined threshold rating is
breached. A downgrade by a single rating agency that does not result in a rating lower than a preexisting corresponding rating provided by another
major rating agency will generally not result in additional collateral (except in certain instances in which additional initial margin may be required
upon a ratings downgrade), nor in termination payments requirements. The liquidity impact in the table is calculated based upon a downgrade below
the lowest current rating of the rating agencies referred to in the derivative contract.
Liquidity impact of downgrade triggers on OTC and OTC-cleared derivatives
 2018  2017
December 31, (in millions)Single-notch
downgradeTwo-notch
downgrade  Single-notch
downgradeTwo-notch
downgrade
Amount of additional collateral to be posted upon downgrade(a)
$ 76$ 947 $ 79$ 1,989
Amount required to settle contracts with termination triggers upon downgrade(b)
172 764 320 650
(a)Includes the additional collateral to be posted for initial margin.
(b)Amounts represent fair values of derivative payables, and do not reflect collateral posted.
Derivatives executed in contemplation of a sale of the underlying financial asset
In certain instances the Firm enters into transactions in which it transfers financial assets but maintains the economic exposure to the transferred
assets by entering into a derivative with the same counterparty in contemplation of the initial transfer. The Firm generally accounts for such transfers
as collateralized financing transactions as described in Note 11, but in limited circumstances they may qualify to be accounted for as a sale and a
derivative under U.S. GAAP. The amount of such transfers accounted for as a sale where the associated derivative was outstanding at December 31,
2018 was not material, and there were no such transfers at December 31, 2017.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  191
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Impact of derivatives on the Consolidated statements of income
The following tables provide information related to gains and losses recorded on derivatives based on their hedge accounting
designation or purpose.
Fair value hedge gains and losses
The following tables present derivative instruments, by contract type, used in fair value hedge accounting relationships, as well as pre-tax
gains/(losses) recorded on such derivatives and the related hedged items for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The
Firm includes gains/(losses) on the hedging derivative in the same line item in the Consolidated statements of income as the related hedged item.
 Gains/(losses) recorded in incomeIncome statement impact of
excluded components(f) OCI impact
Year ended December 31, 2018
(in millions) Derivatives Hedged itemsIncome statement
impactAmortization
approach Changes in fair valueDerivatives -
Gains/(losses)
recorded in OCI(g)
Contract type    
Interest rate(a)(b) $ (1,145)$ 1,782$ 637 $ — $ 623 $ —
Foreign exchange(c) 1,092 (616) 476 (566) 476 (140)
Commodity(d) 789 (754) 35 — 26 —
Total $ 736$ 412$ 1,148 $ (566)$ 1,125 $ (140)
    
 Gains/(losses) recorded in income Income statement impact due to:
Year ended December 31, 2017
(in millions) Derivatives Hedged itemsIncome statement
impactHedge
ineffectiveness(e)Excluded
components(f)
Contract type    
Interest rate(a)(b) $ (481)$ 1,359$ 878 $ (18)$ 896
Foreign exchange(c) (3,509) 3,507 (2) — (2)
Commodity(d) (1,275) 1,348 73 29 44
Total $ (5,265)$ 6,214$ 949 $ 11$ 938
    
 Gains/(losses) recorded in income Income statement impact due to:
Year ended December 31, 2016
(in millions) Derivatives Hedged itemsIncome statement
impactHedge
ineffectiveness(e)Excluded
components(f)
Contract type    
Interest rate(a)(b) $ (482)$ 1,338$ 856 $ 6$ 850
Foreign exchange(c) 2,435 (2,261) 174 — 174
Commodity(d) (536) 586 50 (9) 59
Total $ 1,417$ (337)$ 1,080 $ (3)$ 1,083
(a)Primarily consists of hedges of the benchmark (e.g., London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”)) interest rate risk of fixed-rate long-term debt and AFS securities. Gains and losses
were recorded in net interest income.
(b)Excludes the amortization expense associated with the inception hedge accounting adjustment applied to the hedged item. This expense is recorded in net interest income and
substantially offsets the income statement impact of the excluded components. Also excludes the accrual of interest on interest rate swaps and the related hedged items.
(c)Primarily consists of hedges of the foreign currency risk of long-term debt and AFS securities for changes in spot foreign currency rates. Gains and losses related to the derivatives
and the hedged items due to changes in foreign currency rates and the income statement impact of excluded components were recorded primarily in principal transactions revenue
and net interest income.
(d)Consists of overall fair value hedges of physical commodities inventories that are generally carried at the lower of cost or net realizable value (net realizable value approximates fair
value). Gains and losses were recorded in principal transactions revenue.
(e)Hedge ineffectiveness is the amount by which the gain or loss on the designated derivative instrument does not exactly offset the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the
hedged risk.
(f)The assessment of hedge effectiveness excludes certain components of the changes in fair values of the derivatives and hedged items such as forward points on foreign exchange
forward contracts, time values and cross-currency basis spreads. Under the new hedge accounting guidance, the initial amount of the excluded components may be amortized into
income over the life of the derivative, or changes in fair value may be recognized in current period earnings.
(g)Represents the change in value of amounts excluded from the assessment of effectiveness under the amortization approach, predominantly cross-currency basis spreads. The amount
excluded at inception of the hedge is recognized in earnings over the life of the derivative.
192  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
As of December 31, 2018, the following amounts were recorded on the Consolidated balance sheets related to certain cumulative fair value hedge
basis adjustments that are expected to reverse through the income statement in future periods as an adjustment to yield.
  
Carrying amount of
the hedged items(a)(b)Cumulative amount of fair value hedging adjustments included in the
carrying amount of hedged items:
December 31, 2018
(in millions)  Active hedging
relationshipsDiscontinued hedging
relationships(d) Total
Assets     
Investment securities - AFS  $ 55,313(c) $ (1,105)$ 381$ (724)
Liabilities     
Long-term debt  $ 139,915 $ 141$ 8$ 149
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs  6,987 — (33) (33)
(a)Excludes physical commodities with a carrying value of $6.8 billion to which the Firm applies fair value hedge accounting. As a result of the application of hedge accounting, these
inventories are carried at fair value, thus recognizing unrealized gains and losses in current periods. Given the Firm exits these positions at fair value, there is no incremental impact
to net income in future periods.
(b)Excludes hedged items where only foreign currency risk is the designated hedged risk, as basis adjustments related to foreign currency hedges will not reverse through the income
statement in future periods. The carrying amount excluded for available-for-sale securities is $14.6 billion and for long-term debt is $7.3 billion.
(c)Carrying amount represents the amortized cost.
(d)Represents hedged items no longer designated in qualifying fair value hedging relationships for which an associated basis adjustment exists at the balance sheet date.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  193
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Cash flow hedge gains and losses
The following tables present derivative instruments, by contract type, used in cash flow hedge accounting relationships, and the pre-tax
gains/(losses) recorded on such derivatives, for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The Firm includes the gain/(loss)
on the hedging derivative in the same line item in the Consolidated statements of income as the change in cash flows on the related hedged item.
 Derivatives gains/(losses) recorded in income and other comprehensive
income/(loss)
Year ended December 31, 2018
(in millions)Amounts reclassified
from AOCI to incomeAmounts recorded in
OCITotal change
in OCI
for period
Contract type   
Interest rate(a) $ 44$ (44)$ (88)
Foreign exchange(b) (26) (201) (175)
Total $ 18$ (245)$ (263)
 Derivatives gains/(losses) recorded in income and other comprehensive
income/(loss)
Year ended December 31, 2017
(in millions)Amounts reclassified
from AOCI to incomeAmounts recorded in
OCI(c)Total change
in OCI
for period
Contract type    
Interest rate(a) $ (17)$ 12$ 29
Foreign exchange(b) (117) 135 252
Total $ (134)$ 147$ 281
    
 Derivatives gains/(losses) recorded in income and other comprehensive
income/(loss)
Year ended December 31, 2016
(in millions)Amounts reclassified
from AOCI to incomeAmounts recorded in
OCI(c)Total change
in OCI
for period
Contract type    
Interest rate(a) $ (74)$ (55)$ 19
Foreign exchange(b) (286) (395) (109)
Total $ (360)$ (450)$ (90)
(a)Primarily consists of benchmark interest rate hedges of LIBOR-indexed floating-rate assets and floating-rate liabilities. Gains and losses were recorded in net interest income.
(b)Primarily consists of hedges of the foreign currency risk of non-U.S. dollar-denominated revenue and expense. The income statement classification of gains and losses follows the
hedged item – primarily noninterest revenue and compensation expense.
(c)Represents the effective portion of changes in value of the related hedging derivative. Hedge ineffectiveness is the amount by which the cumulative gain or loss on the designated
derivative instrument exceeds the present value of the cumulative expected change in cash flows on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk. The Firm did not recognize any
ineffectiveness on cash flow hedges during 2017 and 2016.
The Firm did not experience any forecasted transactions that failed to occur for the years ended 2018, 2017 and 2016.
Over the next 12 months, the Firm expects that approximately $(74) million (after-tax) of net losses recorded in AOCI at December 31, 2018,
related to cash flow hedges will be recognized in income. For cash flow hedges that have been terminated, the maximum length of time over which
the derivative results recorded in AOCI will be recognized in earnings is approximately six years, corresponding to the timing of the originally
hedged forecasted cash flows. For open cash flow hedges, the maximum length of time over which forecasted transactions are hedged is
approximately six years. The Firm’s longer-dated forecasted transactions relate to core lending and borrowing activities.
194  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Net investment hedge gains and losses
The following table presents hedging instruments, by contract type, that were used in net investment hedge accounting relationships, and the pre-tax
gains/(losses) recorded on such instruments for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.
 2018  2017 2016
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)Amounts recorded
in income(a)(b)Amounts recorded
in
OCI  Amounts recorded
in income(a)(b)(c)Amounts recorded
in
OCI(d)Amounts recorded
in income(a)(b)(c)Amounts recorded
in
OCI(d)
Foreign exchange derivatives $11 $1,219  $(152) $(1,244) $(280) $262
(a)Certain components of hedging derivatives are permitted to be excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness, such as forward points on foreign exchange forward contracts.
The Firm elects to record changes in fair value of these amounts directly in other income.
(b)Excludes amounts reclassified from AOCI to income on the sale or liquidation of hedged entities. For additional information, refer to Note 23.
(c)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
(d)Represents the effective portion of changes in value of the related hedging derivative. The Firm did not recognize any ineffectiveness on net investment hedges directly in income
during 2017 and 2016.
Gains and losses on derivatives used for specified risk management
purposes
The following table presents pre-tax gains/(losses) recorded on a
limited number of derivatives, not designated in hedge accounting
relationships, that are used to manage risks associated with certain
specified assets and liabilities, including certain risks arising from the
mortgage pipeline, warehouse loans, MSRs, wholesale lending
exposures, and foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities.
 Derivatives gains/(losses)
recorded in income
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Contract type   
Interest rate(a) $ 79 $ 331 $ 1,174
Credit(b) (21) (74) (282)
Foreign exchange(c) 117 (107)(d) (20)(d) 
Total $ 175 $ 150(d) $ 872(d) 
(a)Primarily represents interest rate derivatives used to hedge the interest rate risk
inherent in the mortgage pipeline, warehouse loans and MSRs, as well as written
commitments to originate warehouse loans. Gains and losses were recorded
predominantly in mortgage fees and related income.
(b)Relates to credit derivatives used to mitigate credit risk associated with lending
exposures in the Firm’s wholesale businesses. These derivatives do not include
credit derivatives used to mitigate counterparty credit risk arising from derivative
receivables, which is included in gains and losses on derivatives related to market-
making activities and other derivatives. Gains and losses were recorded in principal
transactions revenue.
(c)Primarily relates to derivatives used to mitigate foreign exchange risk of specified
foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. Gains and losses were recorded
in principal transactions revenue.
(d)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period
presentation. Gains and losses on derivatives related to market-making activities
and other derivatives
The Firm makes markets in derivatives in order to meet the needs of
customers and uses derivatives to manage certain risks associated with
net open risk positions from its market-making activities, including the
counterparty credit risk arising from derivative receivables. All
derivatives not included in the hedge accounting or specified risk
management categories above are included in this category. Gains and
losses on these derivatives are primarily recorded in principal
transactions revenue. Refer to Note 6 for information on principal
transactions revenue.
Credit derivatives
Credit derivatives are financial instruments whose value is derived
from the credit risk associated with the debt of a third-party issuer (the
reference entity) and which allow one party (the protection purchaser)
to transfer that risk to another party (the protection seller). Credit
derivatives expose the protection purchaser to the creditworthiness of
the protection seller, as the protection seller is required to make
payments under the contract when the reference entity experiences a
credit event, such as a bankruptcy, a failure to pay its obligation or a
restructuring. The seller of credit protection receives a premium for
providing protection but has the risk that the underlying instrument
referenced in the contract will be subject to a credit event.
The Firm is both a purchaser and seller of protection in the credit
derivatives market and uses these derivatives for two primary
purposes. First, in its capacity as a market-maker, the Firm actively
manages a portfolio of credit derivatives by purchasing and selling
credit protection, predominantly on corporate debt obligations, to meet
the needs of customers. Second, as an end-user, the Firm uses credit
derivatives to manage credit risk associated with lending exposures
(loans and unfunded commitments) and derivatives counterparty
exposures in the Firm’s wholesale businesses, and to manage the credit
risk arising from certain financial instruments in the Firm’s market-
making businesses. Following is a summary of various types of credit
derivatives.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  195
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Credit default swaps
Credit derivatives may reference the credit of either a single reference
entity (“single-name”) or a broad-based index. The Firm purchases and
sells protection on both single- name and index-reference obligations.
Single-name CDS and index CDS contracts are either OTC or OTC-
cleared derivative contracts. Single-name CDS are used to manage the
default risk of a single reference entity, while index CDS contracts are
used to manage the credit risk associated with the broader credit
markets or credit market segments. Like the S&P 500 and other market
indices, a CDS index consists of a portfolio of CDS across many
reference entities. New series of CDS indices are periodically
established with a new underlying portfolio of reference entities to
reflect changes in the credit markets. If one of the reference entities in
the index experiences a credit event, then the reference entity that
defaulted is removed from the index. CDS can also be referenced
against specific portfolios of reference names or against customized
exposure levels based on specific client demands: for example, to
provide protection against the first $1 million of realized credit losses
in a $10 million portfolio of exposure. Such structures are commonly
known as tranche CDS.
For both single-name CDS contracts and index CDS contracts, upon
the occurrence of a credit event, under the terms of a CDS contract
neither party to the CDS contract has recourse to the reference entity.
The protection purchaser has recourse to the protection seller for the
difference between the face value of the CDS contract and the fair
value of the reference obligation at settlement of the credit derivative
contract, also known as the recovery value. The protection purchaser
does not need to hold the debt instrument of the underlying reference
entity in order to receive amounts due under the CDS contract when a
credit event occurs. Credit-related notes
A credit-related note is a funded credit derivative where the issuer of
the credit-related note purchases from the note investor credit
protection on a reference entity or an index. Under the contract, the
investor pays the issuer the par value of the note at the inception of the
transaction, and in return, the issuer pays periodic payments to the
investor, based on the credit risk of the referenced entity. The issuer
also repays the investor the par value of the note at maturity unless the
reference entity (or one of the entities that makes up a reference index)
experiences a specified credit event. If a credit event occurs, the issuer
is not obligated to repay the par value of the note, but rather, the issuer
pays the investor the difference between the par value of the note and
the fair value of the defaulted reference obligation at the time of
settlement. Neither party to the credit-related note has recourse to the
defaulting reference entity.
The following tables present a summary of the notional amounts of
credit derivatives and credit-related notes the Firm sold and purchased
as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. Upon a credit event, the Firm as a
seller of protection would typically pay out only a percentage of the
full notional amount of net protection sold, as the amount actually
required to be paid on the contracts takes into account the recovery
value of the reference obligation at the time of settlement. The Firm
manages the credit risk on contracts to sell protection by purchasing
protection with identical or similar underlying reference entities. Other
purchased protection referenced in the following tables includes credit
derivatives bought on related, but not identical, reference positions
(including indices, portfolio coverage and other reference points) as
well as protection purchased through credit-related notes.
196  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
The Firm does not use notional amounts of credit derivatives as the primary measure of risk management for such derivatives, because the notional
amount does not take into account the probability of the occurrence of a credit event, the recovery value of the reference obligation, or related cash
instruments and economic hedges, each of which reduces, in the Firm’s view, the risks associated with such derivatives.
Total credit derivatives and credit-related notes
   
 Maximum payout/Notional amount
 
Protection soldProtection purchased with
identical underlyings(b)Net protection
(sold)/purchased(c)Other protection
purchased(d) December 31, 2018 (in millions)
Credit derivatives    
Credit default swaps $ (697,220)  $ 707,282 $ 10,062$ 4,053
Other credit derivatives(a) (41,244)  42,484 1,240 8,488
Total credit derivatives (738,464)  749,766 11,302 12,541
Credit-related notes —  — — 8,425
Total $ (738,464)  $ 749,766 $ 11,302$ 20,966
    
 Maximum payout/Notional amount
 
Protection soldProtection purchased with
identical underlyings(b)Net protection
(sold)/purchased(c)Other protection
purchased(d) December 31, 2017 (in millions)
Credit derivatives    
Credit default swaps $ (690,224)  $ 702,098 $ 11,874$ 5,045
Other credit derivatives(a) (54,157)  59,158 5,001 11,747
Total credit derivatives (744,381)  761,256 16,875 16,792
Credit-related notes (18)  — (18) 7,915
Total $ (744,399)  $ 761,256 $ 16,857$ 24,707
(a)Other credit derivatives largely consists of credit swap options.
(b)Represents the total notional amount of protection purchased where the underlying reference instrument is identical to the reference instrument on protection sold; the notional
amount of protection purchased for each individual identical underlying reference instrument may be greater or lower than the notional amount of protection sold.
(c)Does not take into account the fair value of the reference obligation at the time of settlement, which would generally reduce the amount the seller of protection pays to the buyer of
protection in determining settlement value.
(d)Represents protection purchased by the Firm on referenced instruments (single-name, portfolio or index) where the Firm has not sold any protection on the identical reference
instrument.
The following tables summarize the notional amounts by the ratings, maturity profile, and total fair value, of credit derivatives and credit-related
notes as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, where JPMorgan Chase is the seller of protection. The maturity profile is based on the remaining
contractual maturity of the credit derivative contracts. The ratings profile is based on the rating of the reference entity on which the credit derivative
contract is based. The ratings and maturity profile of credit derivatives and credit-related notes where JPMorgan Chase is the purchaser of protection
are comparable to the profile reflected below.
Protection sold – credit derivatives and credit-related notes ratings(a)/maturity profile   
December 31, 2018
(in millions) <1 year 1–5 years >5 yearsTotal notional
amount  Fair value of
receivables(b) Fair value of
payables(b)Net fair
value
Risk rating of reference entity      
Investment-grade $ (115,443) $ (402,325) $ (43,611) $ (561,379) $ 5,720 $ (2,791) $ 2,929
Noninvestment-grade (45,897) (119,348) (11,840) (177,085) 4,719 (5,660) (941)
Total $ (161,340) $ (521,673) $ (55,451) $ (738,464) $ 10,439 $ (8,451) $ 1,988
December 31, 2017
(in millions) <1 year 1–5 years >5 yearsTotal notional
amount  Fair value of
receivables(b) Fair value of
payables(b)Net fair
value
Risk rating of reference entity      
Investment-grade $ (159,286) $ (319,726) $ (39,429) $ (518,441) $ 8,516 $ (1,134) $ 7,382
Noninvestment-grade (73,394) (134,125) (18,439) (225,958) 7,407 (5,313) 2,094
Total $ (232,680) $ (453,851) $ (57,868) $ (744,399) $ 15,923 $ (6,447) $ 9,476
(a)The ratings scale is primarily based on external credit ratings defined by S&P and Moody’s.
(b)Amounts are shown on a gross basis, before the benefit of legally enforceable master netting agreements and cash collateral received by the Firm.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  197
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 6 – Noninter est revenue and noninter est expense
The Firm records noninterest revenue from certain contracts with
customers under ASC 606, the Firm has no remaining obligation to
deliver future services. For arrangements with a fixed term, the Firm
may commit to deliver services in the future. Revenue associated with
these remaining performance obligations typically depends on the
occurrence of future events or underlying asset values, and is not
recognized until the outcome of those events or values are known.
Revenue from Contracts with Customers the Firm has no remaining
obligation to deliver future services. For arrangements with a fixed
term, the Firm may commit to deliver services in the future. Revenue
associated with these remaining performance obligations typically
depends on the occurrence of future events or underlying asset values,
and is not recognized until the outcome of those events or values are
known. , in investment banking fees, deposit-related fees, asset
management, administration, and commissions, and components of
card income. Contracts in the scope of ASC 606 are often terminable
on demand and the Firm has no remaining obligation to deliver future
services. For arrangements with a fixed term, the Firm may commit to
deliver services in the future. Revenue associated with these remaining
performance obligations typically depends on the occurrence of future
events or underlying asset values, and is not recognized until the
outcome of those events or values are known.
The adoption of the revenue recognition guidance in the first quarter of
2018, required gross presentation of certain costs previously offset
against revenue, predominantly associated with certain distribution
costs (previously offset against asset management, administration and
commissions), with the remainder associated with certain underwriting
costs (previously offset against investment banking fees). Adoption of
the guidance did not result in any material changes in the timing of
revenue recognition. This guidance was adopted retrospectively and,
accordingly, prior period amounts were revised, which resulted in an
increase in both noninterest revenue and noninterest expense. The Firm
did not apply any practical expedients. For additional information,
refer to Note 1.
Investment banking fees
This revenue category includes debt and equity underwriting and
advisory fees. As an underwriter, the Firm helps clients raise capital
via public offering and private placement of various types of debt and
equity instruments. Underwriting fees are primarily based on the
issuance price and quantity of the underlying instruments, and are
recognized as revenue typically upon execution of the client’s
transaction. The Firm also manages and syndicates loan arrangements.
Credit arrangement and syndication fees, included within debt
underwriting fees, are recorded as revenue after satisfying certain
retention, timing and yield criteria.
The Firm also provides advisory services, by assisting its clients with
mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, restructuring and other complex
transactions. Advisory fees are recognized as revenue typically upon
execution of the client’s transaction.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Underwriting    
Equity $ 1,684$ 1,466$ 1,200
Debt 3,347 3,802 3,277
Total underwriting 5,031 5,268 4,477
Advisory 2,519 2,144 2,095
Total investment banking fees $ 7,550$ 7,412$ 6,572
Investment banking fees are earned primarily by CIB. Refer to Note 31
for segment results. Principal transactions
Principal transactions revenue is driven by many factors, including the
bid-offer spread, which is the difference between the price at which the
Firm is willing to buy a financial or other instrument and the price at
which the Firm is willing to sell that instrument. It also consists of the
realized (as a result of the sale of instruments, closing out or
termination of transactions, or interim cash payments) and unrealized
(as a result of changes in valuation) gains and losses on financial and
other instruments (including those accounted for under the fair value
option) primarily used in client-driven market-making activities and on
private equity investments. In connection with its client-driven market-
making activities, the Firm transacts in debt and equity instruments,
derivatives and commodities (including physical commodities
inventories and financial instruments that reference commodities).
Principal transactions revenue also includes certain realized and
unrealized gains and losses related to hedge accounting and specified
risk-management activities, including: (a) certain derivatives
designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships (primarily fair
value hedges of commodity and foreign exchange risk), (b) certain
derivatives used for specific risk management purposes, primarily to
mitigate credit risk and foreign exchange risk, and (c) other
derivatives. For further information on the income statement
classification of gains and losses from derivatives activities, refer to
Note 5.
In the financial commodity markets, the Firm transacts in OTC
derivatives (e.g., swaps, forwards, options) and ETD that reference a
wide range of underlying commodities. In the physical commodity
markets, the Firm primarily purchases and sells precious and base
metals and may hold other commodities inventories under financing
and other arrangements with clients.
The following table presents all realized and unrealized gains and
losses recorded in principal transactions revenue. This table excludes
interest income and interest expense on trading assets and liabilities,
which are an integral part of the overall performance of the Firm’s
client-driven market-making activities. Refer to Note 7 for further
information on interest income and interest expense. Trading revenue
is presented primarily by instrument type. The Firm’s client-driven
market-making businesses generally utilize a variety of instrument
types in connection with their market-making and related risk-
management activities; accordingly, the trading revenue presented in
the table below is not representative of the total revenue of any
individual line of business.
198  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Trading revenue by instrument
type   
Interest rate $ 1,961 $ 2,479$ 2,325
Credit 1,395 1,329 2,096
Foreign exchange 3,222 2,746 2,827
Equity 4,924 3,873 2,994
Commodity 906 661 1,067
Total trading revenue 12,408 11,088 11,309
Private equity gains (349) 259 257
Principal transactions $ 12,059 $ 11,347$ 11,566
Principal transactions revenue is earned primarily by CIB. Refer to
Note 31 for segment results.
Lending- and deposit-related fees
Lending-related fees include fees earned from loan commitments,
standby letters of credit, financial guarantees, and other loan-servicing
activities. Deposit-related fees include fees earned in lieu of
compensating balances, and fees earned from performing cash
management activities and other deposit account services. Lending-
and deposit-related fees in this revenue category are recognized over
the period in which the related service is provided.
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Lending-related fees $ 1,117$ 1,110 $ 1,114
Deposit-related fees 4,935 4,823 4,660
Total lending- and deposit-related fees $ 6,052$ 5,933 $ 5,774
Lending- and deposit-related fees are earned by CCB, CIB, CB, and
AWM. Refer to Note 31 for segment results.
Asset management, administration and commissions
This revenue category includes fees from investment management and
related services, custody, brokerage services and other products. The
Firm manages assets on behalf of its clients, including investors in
Firm-sponsored funds and owners of separately managed investment
accounts. Management fees are typically based on the value of assets
under management and are collected and recognized at the end of each
period over which the management services are provided and the value
of the managed assets is known. The Firm also receives performance-
based management fees, which are earned based on exceeding certain
benchmarks or other performance targets and are accrued and
recognized when the probability of reversal is remote, typically at the
end of the related billing period. The Firm has contractual
arrangements with third parties to provide distribution and other
services in connection with its asset management activities. Amounts
paid to third-party service providers are recorded in professional and
outside services expense. 
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2018 2017  2016
Asset management fees    
Investment management fees(a) $ 10,768$ 10,434 $ 9,636
All other asset management fees(b) 270 296 338
Total asset management fees 11,038 10,730 9,974
Total administration fees(c) 2,179 2,029 1,915
Commissions and other fees    
Brokerage commissions(d) 2,505 2,239 2,151
All other commissions and fees 1,396 1,289 1,324
Total commissions and fees 3,901 3,528 3,475
Total asset management,
administration and commissions $ 17,118$ 16,287 $ 15,364
(a)Represents fees earned from managing assets on behalf of the Firm’s clients, including
investors in Firm-sponsored funds and owners of separately managed investment
accounts.
(b)The Firm receives other asset management fees for services that are ancillary to
investment management services, including commissions earned on sales or
distribution of mutual funds to clients. These fees are recorded as revenue at the time
the service is rendered or, in the case of certain distribution fees based on the
underlying fund’s asset value and/or investor redemption, recorded over time as the
investor remains in the fund or upon investor redemption.
(c)The Firm receives administrative fees predominantly from custody, securities lending,
fund services and securities clearance services it provides. These fees are recorded as
revenue over the period in which the related service is provided.
(d)The Firm acts as a broker, by facilitating its clients’ purchases and sales of securities
and other financial instruments. Brokerage commissions are collected and recognized
as revenue upon occurrence of the client transaction. The Firm reports certain costs
paid to third-party clearing houses and exchanges net against commission revenue.
Asset management, administration and commissions are earned
primarily by AWM, CIB, CCB, and CB. Refer to Note 31 for segment
results.
Mortgage fees and related income
This revenue category primarily reflects CCB’s Home Lending net
production and net mortgage servicing revenue.
Net production revenue includes fees and income recognized as earned
on mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell; the impact of risk
management activities associated with the mortgage pipeline and
warehouse loans; and changes in the fair value of any residual interests
held from mortgage securitizations. Net production revenue also
includes gains and losses on sales of mortgage loans, lower of cost or
fair value adjustments on mortgage loans held-for-sale, changes in fair
value on mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell and
measured at fair value under the fair value option, as well as losses
recognized as incurred related to the repurchase of previously sold
loans.
Net mortgage servicing revenue includes operating revenue earned
from servicing third-party mortgage loans which is recognized over the
period in which the service is provided, changes in the fair value of
MSRs and the impact of risk management activities associated with
MSRs.
For further discussion of risk management activities and MSRs, refer
to Note 15.
Net interest income from mortgage loans is recorded in interest
income.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  199
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Card income
This revenue category includes interchange income from credit and
debit cards and fees earned from processing card transactions for
merchants, both of which are recognized when purchases are made by
a cardholder. Card income also includes account origination costs and
annual fees, which are deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis
over a 12-month period.
Certain Chase credit card products offer the cardholder the ability to
earn points based on account activity, which the cardholder can choose
to redeem for cash and non-cash rewards. The cost to the Firm related
to these proprietary rewards programs varies based on multiple factors
including the terms and conditions of the rewards programs,
cardholder activity, cardholder reward redemption rates and cardholder
reward selections. The Firm maintains a liability for its obligations
under its rewards programs and reports the current-period cost as a
reduction of card income.
Credit card revenue sharing agreements
The Firm has contractual agreements with numerous co-brand partners
that grant the Firm exclusive rights to issue co-branded credit card
products and market them to the customers of such partners. These
partners endorse the co-brand credit card programs and provide their
customer or member lists to the Firm. The partners may also conduct
marketing activities and provide rewards redeemable under their own
loyalty programs that the Firm will grant to co-brand credit
cardholders based on account activity. The terms of these agreements
generally range from five to ten years.
The Firm typically makes payments to the co-brand credit card
partners based on the cost of partners’ marketing activities and loyalty
program rewards provided to credit cardholders, new account
originations and sales volumes. Payments to partners based on
marketing efforts undertaken by the partners are expensed by the Firm
as incurred and reported as marketing expense. Payments for partner
loyalty program rewards are reported as a reduction of card income
when incurred. Payments to partners based on new credit card account
originations are accounted for as direct loan origination costs and are
deferred and recognized as a reduction of card income on a straight-
line basis over a 12-month period. Payments to partners based on sales
volumes are reported as a reduction of card income when the related
interchange income is earned. The following table presents the components of card income:
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2018 2017  2016
Interchange and merchant
processing income $ 18,808 $ 17,080 $ 15,367
Reward costs and partner payments (13,074)(b) (10,820) (9,480)
Other card income(a) (745) (1,827) (1,108)
Total card income $ 4,989 $ 4,433 $ 4,779
(a)Predominantly represents annual fees and new account origination costs, which are
deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over a 12-month period and are
outside the scope of the revenue recognition guidance, ASC 606, Revenue from
Contracts with Customers.
(b)Includes an adjustment to the credit card rewards liability of approximately $330
million, recorded in the second quarter of 2018.
Card income is earned primarily by CCB and CB. Refer to Note 31 for
segment results.
Other income
Other income on the Firm’s Consolidated statements of income
included the following:
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Operating lease income $ 4,540 $ 3,613$ 2,724
Operating lease income is recognized on a straight–line basis over the
lease term.
Noninter est expense
Other  expense
Other expense on  the Firm’ s Consolidated statements of income
included the following:
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Legal expense/(benefit) $ 72$ (35) $ (317)
FDIC-related expense 1,239 1,492 1,296
200  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Note 7 – Inter est income and Inter est expense
Interest income and interest expense are recorded in the Consolidated
statements of income and classified based on the nature of the
underlying asset or liability.
The following table presents the components of interest income and
interest expense:
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Interest income   
Loans(a) $ 47,620$ 41,008$ 36,634
 Taxable securities 5,653 5,535 5,538
 Non-taxable securities(b) 1,595 1,847 1,766
Total investment securities 7,248 7,382 7,304
Trading assets 8,703 7,610 7,292
Federal funds sold and securities
purchased under resale agreements 3,819 2,327 2,265
Securities borrowed(c) 728 (37) (332)
Deposits with banks 5,907 4,238 1,879
All other interest-earning assets(d) 3,417 1,844 859
Total interest income $ 77,442$ 64,372$ 55,901
Interest expense   
Interest bearing deposits $ 5,973$ 2,857$ 1,356
Federal funds purchased and securities
loaned or sold under repurchase
agreements 3,066 1,611 1,089
Short-term borrowings(e) 1,144 481 203
Trading liabilities - debt and all other
interest-bearing liabilities(f) 3,729 2,070 1,102
Long-term debt 7,978 6,753 5,564
Beneficial interest issued by
consolidated VIEs 493 503 504
Total interest expense $ 22,383$ 14,275$ 9,818
Net interest income $ 55,059$ 50,097$ 46,083
Provision for credit losses 4,871 5,290 5,361
Net interest income after provision for
credit losses $ 50,188$ 44,807$ 40,722
(a)Includes the amortization/accretion of unearned income (e.g., purchase
premiums/discounts, net deferred fees/costs, etc.).
(b)Represents securities that are tax-exempt for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
(c)Negative interest income is related to client-driven demand for certain securities
combined with the impact of low interest rates. This is matched book activity and
the negative interest expense on the corresponding securities loaned is recognized in
interest expense.
(d)Includes held-for-investment margin loans, which are classified in accrued interest
and accounts receivable, and all other interest-earning assets, which are classified in
other assets on the Consolidated balance sheets.
(e)Includes commercial paper.
(f)Other interest-bearing liabilities include brokerage customer payables. Interest income and interest expense includes the current-period
interest accruals for financial instruments measured at fair value,
except for derivatives and financial instruments containing embedded
derivatives that would be separately accounted for in accordance with
U.S. GAAP, absent the fair value option election; for those
instruments, all changes in fair value including any interest elements,
are reported in principal transactions revenue. For financial
instruments that are not measured at fair value, the related interest is
included within interest income or interest expense, as applicable. For
further information on accounting for interest income and interest
expense related to loans, investment securities, securities financing
(i.e. securities purchased or sold under resale or repurchase
agreements; securities borrowed; and securities loaned) and long-term
debt, refer to Notes 12, 10, 11 and 19, respectively.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  201
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 8 – Pension and other  postr etirement employee
benefit plans
The Firm has various defined benefit pension plans and OPEB plans
that provide benefits to its employees in the U.S. and certain non-U.S.
locations. The Firm also provides a qualified defined contribution plan
in the U.S. and maintains other similar arrangements in certain non-
U.S. locations.
The principal defined benefit pension plan in the U.S. is a qualified
noncontributory plan that provides benefits to substantially all U.S.
employees. In connection with changes to the U.S. Retirement Savings
Program during the fourth quarter of 2018, the Firm announced that it
will freeze the U.S. defined benefit pension plan. Commencing on
January 1, 2020 (and January 1, 2019 for new hires), pay credits will
be directed to the U.S. defined contribution plan. Interest credits will
continue to accrue. As a result, a curtailment was triggered and a
remeasurement of the U.S. defined benefit pension obligation and plan
assets occurred as of November 30, 2018. The plan design change
resulted in an increase to pension expense of $21 million representing
the immediate recognition of the prior service cost, but did not have a
material impact on the U.S. defined benefit pension plan or the Firm’s
Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Firm also has defined benefit pension plans that are offered in
certain non-U.S. locations based on factors such as eligible
compensation, age and/or years of service. It is the Firm’s policy to
fund the pension plans in amounts sufficient to meet the requirements
under applicable laws. The Firm does not anticipate at this time any
contribution to the U.S. defined benefit pension plan in 2019. The
2019 contributions to the non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans are
expected to be $45 million of which $30 million are contractually
required.
The Firm also has a number of nonqualified noncontributory defined
benefit pension plans that are unfunded. These plans provide
supplemental defined pension benefits to certain employees. 
The Firm offers postretirement medical and life insurance benefits to
certain U.S. retirees and postretirement medical benefits to qualifying
U.S. and U.K. employees.
The Firm defrays the cost of its U.S. OPEB obligation through
corporate-owned life insurance (“COLI”) purchased on the lives of
eligible employees and retirees. While the Firm owns the COLI
policies, COLI proceeds (death benefits, withdrawals and other
distributions) may be used only to reimburse the Firm for its net
postretirement benefit claim payments and related administrative
expense. The Firm has generally funded its postretirement benefit
obligations through contributions to the relevant trust on a pay-as-you
go basis. On December 21, 2017, the Firm contributed $600 million of
cash to the trust as a prefunding of a portion of its postretirement
benefit obligations. The U.K. OPEB plan is unfunded.   
Pension and OPEB accounting generally requires that the difference
between plan assets at fair value and the benefit obligation be
measured and recorded on the balance sheet. Plans that are overfunded
(excess of plan assets over benefit obligation) are recorded in other
assets and plans that are underfunded (excess benefit obligation over
plan assets) are recorded within other liabilities. Gains or losses
resulting from changes in the benefit obligation and the value of plan
assets are recorded in other comprehensive income (“OCI”) and
recognized as part of the net periodic benefit cost over subsequent
periods as discussed in the Gains and losses section of this Note.
Additionally, income statement items related to pension and OPEB
plans (other than benefits earned during the period) are aggregated and
reported net within other expense.
202  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
The following table presents the changes in benefit obligations, plan assets, the net funded status, and the pretax pension and OPEB amounts
recorded in AOCI on the Consolidated balance sheets for the Firm’s defined benefit pension and OPEB plans, and the weighted-average actuarial
annualized assumptions for the projected and accumulated postretirement benefit obligations.
As of or for the year ended December 31,Defined benefit
pension plans OPEB plans (h)
(in millions) 2018 2017 2018  2017
Change in benefit obligation   
Benefit obligation, beginning of year $ (16,700 ) $ (15,594 ) $ (684) $ (708)
Benefits earned during the year (354) (330) —  —
Interest cost on benefit obligations (556) (598) (24) (28)
Plan amendments (29) — —  —
Plan curtailment 123 — —  —
Employee contributions (7) (7) (15) (16)
Net gain/(loss) 938 (g) (721) (g) 40  (4)
Benefits paid 873  841 69  76
Plan settlements 15 30 —  —
Expected Medicare Part D subsidy receipts NA  NA —  (1)
Foreign exchange impact and other 185  (321) 2  (3)
Benefit obligation, end of year (a) $ (15,512 ) $ (16,700 ) $ (612) $ (684)
Change in plan assets   
Fair value of plan assets, beginning of year $ 19,603 $ 17,703 $ 2,757  $ 1,956
Actual return on plan assets (548)  2,356 (28)  233
Firm contributions 75  78 2  602
Employee contributions 7  7 15  —
Benefits paid (873) (841) (113) (34)
Plan settlements (15)  (30) —  —
Foreign exchange impact and other (197)  330 —  —
Fair value of plan assets, end of year  (a)(b)(c) $ 18,052 $ 19,603 $ 2,633  $ 2,757
Net funded status (d)(e) $ 2,540 $ 2,903 $ 2,021  $ 2,073
Accumulated benefit obligation, end of year $ (15,494 ) $ (16,530 ) NA  NA
Pretax pension and OPEB amounts r ecorded in AOCI
Net gain/(loss) $ (3,134 ) $ (2,800 ) $ 184 $ 271
Prior service credit/(cost) (23) 6 — —
Accumulated other  compr ehensive income/(loss), pr etax, end of year $ (3,157 ) $ (2,794 ) $ 184 $ 271
Weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine benefit obligations
Discount Rate (f) 0.60 - 4.30 % 0.60 - 3.70 % 4.20% 3.70%
Rate of compensation increase (f) 2.25 – 3.00 2.25 – 3.00 NA  NA
Interest crediting rate (f) 1.81 - 4.90% 1.81 - 4.90% NA  NA
Health car e cost tr end rate:
Assumed for next year NA NA 5.00  5.00
Ultimate NA NA 5.00  5.00
Year when rate will reach ultimate NA NA 2019  2018
(a)At December 31, 2018  and 2017 , included non-U.S. benefit obligations of $(3.3) billion  and $(3.8) billion , and plan assets of $3.5 billion  and $3.9 billion , respectively , predominantly in the
U.K.
(b)At both December 31, 2018  and 2017 , approximately $302 million  of U.S. defined benefit pension plan assets included participation rights under participating annuity contracts.
(c)At December 31, 2018  and 2017 , defined benefit pension plan amounts that were not measured at fair value included $340 million  and $377 million , respectively , of accrued receivables, and
$503 million  and $587 million , respectively , of accrued liabilities, for U.S. plans.
(d)Represents plans with an aggregate overfunded balance of $5.1 billion  and $5.6 billion  at December 31, 2018  and 2017 , respectively , and plans with an aggregate underfunded balance of $547
million  and $612 million  at December 31, 2018  and 2017 , respectively .
(e)For pension plans with a projected benefit obligation exceeding plan assets, the projected benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets was $1.3 billion  and $762 million  at December 31, 2018 ,
respectively and $1.4 billion  and $811 million  at December 31, 2017 , respectively . For pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation exceeding plan assets, the accumulated benefit
obligation and fair value of plan assets was $1.3 billion  and $762 million  at December 31, 2018 , respectively , and $1.4 billion  and $811 million  at December 31, 2017 , respectively . For OPEB
plans with a projected benefit obligation exceeding plan assets, the projected benefit obligation was $26 million  and $32 million  at December 31, 2018  and December 31, 2017 , respectively ,
they had no plan assets.
(f)For the U.S. defined benefit pension plans, the discount rate assumption is 4.30% and 3.70% for 2018  and 2017 , respectively , and the rate of compensation increase and the interest crediting rate
are 2.30% and 4.90%, respectively , for both 2018  and 2017 .
(g)At December 31, 2018 and 2017, the gain/(loss) was primarily attributable to the change in the discount rate.
(h)Includes an unfunded postretirement benefit obligation of $26 million  and $32 million  at December 31, 2018  and 2017 , respectively , for the U.K. plan.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  203
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Gains and losses
For the Firm’s defined benefit pension plans, fair value is used to
determine the expected return on plan assets. Amortization of net gains
and losses is included in annual net periodic benefit cost if, as of the
beginning of the year, the net gain or loss exceeds 10% of the greater
of the PBO or the fair value of the plan assets. Any excess is amortized
over the average future service period of defined benefit pension plan
participants, which for the U.S. defined benefit pension plan is
currently eight years and for the non-U.S. defined benefit pension
plans is the period appropriate for the affected plan. In addition, prior
service costs are amortized over the average remaining service period
of active employees expected to receive benefits under the plan when
the prior service cost is first recognized. Due to the curtailment of the
principal U.S. defined benefit pension plan in 2018, all related prior
service cost was recognized in the annual net periodic benefit cost.
For the Firm’s OPEB plans, a calculated value that recognizes changes
in fair value over a five-year period is used to determine the expected
return on plan assets. This value is referred to as the market-related
value of assets. Amortization of net gains and losses, adjusted for gains
and losses not yet recognized, is included in annual net periodic benefit
cost if, as of the beginning of the year, the net gain or loss exceeds
10% of the greater of the accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation or the market-related value of assets. Any excess net gain or
loss is amortized over the average expected lifetime of retired
participants, which is currently eleven years; however, prior service
costs resulting from plan changes are amortized over the average years
of service remaining to full eligibility age, which is currently one year.
204  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
The following table presents the components of net periodic benefit costs reported in the Consolidated statements of income for the Firm’s U.S. and
non-U.S. defined benefit pension, defined contribution and OPEB plans, and in other comprehensive income for the defined benefit pension and
OPEB plans, and the weighted-average annualized actuarial assumptions for the net periodic benefit cost.
 Pension plans  OPEB plans
Year ended December 31, (in millions)20182017 2016  2018 2017 2016
Components of net periodic benefit cost    
Benefits earned during the year $ 354 $ 330 $ 332  $ — $ — $ —
Interest cost on benefit obligations 556 598 629  24 28 31
Expected return on plan assets (981) (968) (1,030 ) (103) (97) (105)
Amortization:    
Net (gain)/loss 103 250 257  — — —
Prior service cost/(credit) (23) (36) (36) — — —
Curtailment (gain)/loss 21 — —  — — —
Settlement (gain)/loss 2 2 4 — — —
Net periodic defined benefit cost (a) $ 32 $ 176 $ 156  $ (79)$ (69)$ (74)
Other defined benefit pension plans (b) 20 24 25  NA NA NA
Total defined benefit plans $ 52 $ 200 $ 181  $ (79)$ (69)$ (74)
Total defined contribution plans 872 814 789  NA NA NA
Total pension and OPEB cost included in noninter est
expense $ 924 $ 1,014 $ 970  $ (79)$ (69)$ (74)
Changes in plan assets and benefit obligations r ecognized in other  compr ehensive income   
Prior service (credit)/cost arising during the year 29 — —  — — —
Net (gain)/loss arising during the year 467 (669) 395  91 (133) (29)
Amortization of net loss (103) (250) (257) — — —
Amortization of prior service (cost)/credit 23 36 36  — — —
Curtailment gain/(loss) (21) — —  — — —
Settlement gain/(loss) (2) (2) (4) — — —
Foreign exchange impact and other (30) 54 (77) (4) — —
Total r ecognized in other  compr ehensive income $ 363 $ (831)$ 93  $ 87 $ (133)$ (29)
Total r ecognized in net periodic benefit cost and other
compr ehensive income $ 395 $ (655)$ 249  $ 8 $ (202)$ (103)
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit costs   
Discount rate (c) 0.60 - 4.50 % 0.60 - 4.30 % 0.90 – 4.50%  3.70% 4.20% 4.40%
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets (c) 0.70 - 5.50 0.70 - 6.00 0.80 – 6.50  4.00 5.00 5.75
Rate of compensation increase (c) 2.25 - 3.00 2.25 - 3.00 2.25 – 4.30  NA NA NA
Interest crediting rate (c) 1.81- 4.90% 1.81- 4.90% 1.56- 4.90%  NA NA NA
Health car e cost tr end rate    
Assumed for next year NA NA NA  5.00 5.00 5.50
Ultimate NA NA NA  5.00 5.00 5.00
Year when rate will reach ultimate NA NA NA  2018 2017 2017
(a)Effective January 1, 2018, benefits earned during the year are reported in compensation expense; all other components of net periodic defined benefit costs are reported within other
expense in the Consolidated statements of income.
(b)Includes various defined benefit pension plans which are individually immaterial.
(c)The rate assumptions for the U.S. defined benefit pension plans are at the upper end of the range, except for the rate of compensation increase, which is 2.30% for both 2018 and
2017, and 3.50% for 2016.
Plan assumptions
The Firm’s expected long-term rate of return for defined benefit
pension and OPEB plan assets is a blended weighted average, by asset
allocation of the projected long-term returns for the various asset
classes, taking into consideration local market conditions and the
specific allocation of plan assets. Returns on asset classes are
developed using a forward-looking approach and are not strictly based
on historical returns. Consideration is also given to current market
conditions and the short-term portfolio mix of each plan. The discount rate used in determining the benefit obligation under the
U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans was provided by the
Firm’s actuaries. This rate was selected by reference to the yields on
portfolios of bonds with maturity dates and coupons that closely match
each of the plan’s projected cash flows. The discount rate for the U.K.
defined benefit pension plan represents a rate of appropriate duration
from the analysis of yield curves provided by the Firm’s actuaries.
At December 31, 2018, the Firm increased the discount rates used to
determine its benefit obligations for the U.S. defined benefit pension
and OPEB plans in light of curr
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  205
Notes to consolidated financial statements
ent market interest rates, which will decrease expense by
approximately $20 million in 2019. The 2019 expected long-term rate
of return on U.S. defined benefit pension plan assets and U.S. OPEB
plan assets are 5.50% and 4.30%, respectively. As of December 31,
2018, the interest crediting rate assumption was 4.90%.
The following table represents the effect of a 25-basis point decline in
the two listed rates below on estimated 2019 defined benefit pension
and OPEB plan expense, as well as the effect on the postretirement
benefit obligations.
(in millions)Defined benefit
pension and OPEB
plan expense Benefit
obligation
Expected long-term rate of return$ 51 NA
Discount rate $ 50 $ 490 Investment strategy and asset allocation
The assets of the Firm’s defined benefit pension plans are held in
various trusts and are invested in well-diversified portfolios of equity
and fixed income securities, cash and cash equivalents, and alternative
investments. The trust-owned assets of the Firm’s U.S. OPEB plan are
invested primarily in fixed income securities. COLI policies used to
defray the cost of the Firm’s U.S. OPEB plan are invested in separate
accounts of an insurance company and are allocated to investments
intended to replicate equity and fixed income indices.
The investment policies for the assets of the Firm’s defined
benefit pension plans are to optimize the risk-return relationship
as appropriate to the needs and goals of each plan using a global
portfolio of various asset classes diversified by market segment,
economic sector, and issuer. Assets are managed by a
combination of internal and external investment managers. The
Firm regularly reviews the asset allocations and asset managers,
as well as other factors that impact the portfolios, which are
rebalanced when deemed necessary.
Investments held by the plans include financial instruments which are
exposed to various risks such as interest rate, market and credit risks.
Exposure to a concentration of credit risk is mitigated by the broad
diversification of both U.S. and non-U.S. investment instruments.
Additionally, the investments in each of the collective investment
funds and/or registered investment companies are further diversified
into various financial instruments. As of December 31, 2018, assets
held by the Firm’s defined benefit pension and OPEB plans do not
include JPMorgan Chase common stock, except through indirect
exposures through investments in third-party stock-index funds. The
plans hold investments in funds that are sponsored or managed by
affiliates of JPMorgan Chase in the amount of $3.7 billion and $6.0
billion, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
206  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
The following table presents the weighted-average asset allocation of the fair values of total plan assets at December 31 for the years indicated, as
well as the respective approved asset allocation ranges by asset class.
Defined benefit pension plans(a) OPEB plan(d)
 Asset % of plan assets  Asset % of plan assets
December 31, Allocation 2018 2017  Allocation 2018  2017
Asset class      
Debt securities(b) 27-100% 48% 42% 30-70% 61% 61%
Equity securities 10-45 37 42 30-70 39 39
Real estate 0-10 2 3 — —  —
Alternatives (c) 0-35 13 13 — —  —
Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
(a)Represents the U.S. defined benefit pension plan only, as that is the most significant plan.
(b)Debt securities primarily includes cash and cash equivalents, corporate debt, U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. government, and mortgage-backed securities.
(c)Alternatives primarily include limited partnerships.
(d)Represents the U.S. OPEB plan only, as the U.K. OPEB plan is unfunded.
Fair value measurement of the plans’ assets and liabilities
For information on fair value measurements, including descriptions of level 1, 2, and 3 of the fair value hierarchy and the valuation methods
employed by the Firm, refer to Note 2.
Pension and OPEB plan assets and liabilities measured at fair value   
 Defined benefit pension plans
 2018  2017
December 31,
(in millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3Total fair
value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3Total fair
value
Cash and cash equivalents $ 343$ 1 $ — $ 344 $ 173$ 1 $ — $ 174
Equity securities 5,342 162 2 5,506 6,407 194 2 6,603
Mutual funds — — — — 325 — — 325
Collective investment funds(a) 161 — — 161 778 — — 778
Limited partnerships(b) 40 — — 40 60 — — 60
Corporate debt securities(c) — 3,540 3 3,543 — 2,644 4 2,648
U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S.
government debt securities 1,191 743 — 1,934 1,096 784 — 1,880
Mortgage-backed securities 82 272 3 357 92 100 2 194
Derivative receivables — 143 — 143 — 203 — 203
Other(d) 885 80 302 1,267 2,353 60 302 2,715
Total assets measured at fair value(e)$ 8,044$ 4,941 $ 310$13,295 $11,284$ 3,986 $ 310$15,580
Derivative payables $ — $ (96)$ — $ (96) $ — $ (141) $ — $ (141)
Total liabilities measured at fair
value(e) $ — $ (96)$ — $ (96) $ — $ (141) $ — $ (141)
(a)At December 31, 2018 and 2017, collective investment funds primarily included a mix of short-term investment funds, U.S. and non-U.S. equity investments (including index) and
real estate funds.
(b)Unfunded commitments to purchase limited partnership investments for the plans were $521 million and $605 million for 2018 and 2017, respectively.
(c)Corporate debt securities include debt securities of U.S. and non-U.S. corporations.
(d)Other consists primarily of mutual funds, money market funds and participating and non-participating annuity contracts. Mutual funds and money market funds are primarily
classified within level 1 of the fair value hierarchy given they are valued using market observable prices. Participating and non-participating annuity contracts are classified within
level 3 of the fair value hierarchy due to a lack of market mechanisms for transferring each policy and surrender restrictions.
(e)At December 31, 2018 and 2017, excludes $5.0 billion and $4.4 billion of certain investments that are measured at fair value using the net asset value per share (or its equivalent) as
a practical expedient, which are not required to be classified in the fair value hierarchy, $340 million and $377 million of defined benefit pension plan receivables for investments
sold and dividends and interest receivables, $479 million and $561 million of defined benefit pension plan payables for investments purchased, and $24 million and $26 million of
other liabilities, respectively.
The assets of the U.S. OPEB plan consisted of $561 million and $600 million in corporate debt securities, U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S.
government debt securities and other classified in level 1 and level 2 of the valuation hierarchy and in cash and cash equivalents classified in level 1
of the valuation hierarchy and $2.1 billion and $2.2 billion of COLI policies classified in level 3 of the valuation hierarchy at December 31, 2018
and 2017, respectively.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  207
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Changes in level 3 fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs   
(in millions)Fair value,
Beginning
balanceActual return on plan assets
 Purchases, sales
and settlements,
netTransfers in
and/or out of
level 3Fair value,
Ending
balanceRealized
gains/(losses)Unrealized
gains/(losses)
Year ended December 31, 2018
   U.S. defined benefit pension plan
       Annuity contracts and other (a) $ 310$ — $ — $ (1)$ 1$ 310
  U.S. OPEB plan
       COLI policies $ 2,157$ — $ (85) $ — $ — $ 2,072
Year ended December 31, 2017
   U.S. defined benefit pension plan
       Annuity contracts and other (a) $ 396$ — $ 1 $ (87)$ — $ 310
   U.S. OPEB plan
       COLI policies $ 1,957$ — $ 200 $ — $ — $ 2,157
(a)Substantially all are participating and non-participating annuity contracts.
Estimated future benefit payments
The following table presents benefit payments expected to be paid,
which include the effect of expected future service, for the years
indicated. The OPEB medical and life insurance payments are net of
expected retiree contributions.
Year ended December
31,
(in millions)Defined
benefit
pension
plans OPEB
before
Medicare
Part D
subsidyMedicare
Part D
subsidy
2019 $ 939 $ 62$ 1
2020 932 60 1
2021 921 57 1
2022 920 55 1
2023 919 52 —
Years 2024–2028 4,529 223 2
208  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Note 9 – Employee shar e-based incentives
Employee share-based awards
In 2018, 2017 and 2016, JPMorgan Chase granted long-term share-
based awards to certain employees under its LTIP, as amended and
restated effective May 19, 2015, and further amended and restated
effective May 15, 2018. Under the terms of the LTIP, as of
December 31, 2018, 86 million shares of common stock were available
for issuance through May 2022. The LTIP is the only active plan under
which the Firm is currently granting share-based incentive awards. In
the following discussion, the LTIP, plus prior Firm plans and plans
assumed as the result of acquisitions, are referred to collectively as the
“LTI Plans,” and such plans constitute the Firm’s share-based incentive
plans.
RSUs are awarded at no cost to the recipient upon their grant.
Generally, RSUs are granted annually and vest at a rate of 50% after
two years and 50% after three years and are converted into shares of
common stock as of the vesting date. In addition, RSUs typically
include full-career eligibility provisions, which allow employees to
continue to vest upon voluntary termination based on age or service-
related requirements, subject to post-employment and other
restrictions. All RSU awards are subject to forfeiture until vested and
contain clawback provisions that may result in cancellation under
certain specified circumstances. Generally, RSUs entitle the recipient
to receive cash payments equivalent to any dividends paid on the
underlying common stock during the period the RSUs are outstanding
and, as such, are considered participating securities as discussed in
Note 22.
In January 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Firm’s Board of Directors
approved the grant of performance share units (“PSUs”) to members of
the Firm’s Operating Committee under the variable compensation
program for performance years 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.
PSUs are subject to the Firm’s achievement of specified performance
criteria over a three-year period. The number of awards that vest can
range from zero to 150% of the grant amount. The awards vest and are
converted into shares of common stock in the quarter after the end of
the performance period, which is generally three years. In addition,
dividends are notionally reinvested in the Firm’s common stock and
will be delivered only in respect of any earned shares. Once the PSUs have vested, the shares of common stock that are
delivered, after applicable tax withholding, must be held for an
additional two-year period, typically for a total combined vesting and
holding period of five years from the grant date.
Under the LTI Plans, stock options and stock appreciation rights
(“SARs”) have generally been granted with an exercise price equal to
the fair value of JPMorgan Chase’s common stock on the grant date.
The Firm periodically grants employee stock options to individual
employees. There were no material grants of stock options or SARs
in 2018, 2017 and 2016. SARs generally expire ten years after the
grant date.
The Firm separately recognizes compensation expense for each tranche
of each award, net of estimated forfeitures, as if it were a separate
award with its own vesting date. Generally, for each tranche granted,
compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis from the
grant date until the vesting date of the respective tranche, provided that
the employees will not become full-career eligible during the vesting
period. For awards with full-career eligibility provisions and awards
granted with no future substantive service requirement, the Firm
accrues the estimated value of awards expected to be awarded to
employees as of the grant date without giving consideration to the
impact of post-employment restrictions. For each tranche granted to
employees who will become full-career eligible during the vesting
period, compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis
from the grant date until the earlier of the employee’s full-career
eligibility date or the vesting date of the respective tranche.
The Firm’s policy for issuing shares upon settlement of employee
share-based incentive awards is to issue either new shares of common
stock or treasury shares. During 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Firm settled
all of its employee share-based awards by issuing treasury shares.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  209
Notes to consolidated financial statements
RSUs, PSUs, employee stock options and SARs activity
Generally, compensation expense for RSUs and PSUs is measured based on the number of units granted multiplied by the stock price at the grant
date, and for employee stock options and SARs, is measured at the grant date using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Compensation expense for
these awards is recognized in net income as described previously. The following table summarizes JPMorgan Chase’s RSUs, PSUs, employee stock
options and SARs activity for 2018.
 RSUs/PSUs Options/SARs
Year ended December 31, 2018
Number of
unitsWeighted-average
grant
date fair valueNumber of
awardsWeighted-
average
exercise priceWeighted-average
remaining contractual
life
(in years)Aggregate
intrinsic value(in thousands, except weighted-average data, and where
otherwise stated)
Outstanding, January 1 72,733$ 66.36 17,493 $ 40.76
Granted 20,489 110.46 46 113.63
Exercised or vested (32,277) 58.97 (5,054) 39.65
Forfeited (2,136) 84.60 (1) 112.25
Canceled NA NA (21) 45.75
Outstanding, December 31 58,809$ 85.04 12,463 $ 41.46 2.4$ 702,815
Exercisable, December 31 NA NA 12,449 41.37 2.4 702,815
The total fair value of RSUs that vested during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, was $3.6 billion, $2.9 billion and $2.2 billion,
respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, was $370 million, $651
million and $338 million, respectively.
Compensation expense
The Firm recognized the following noncash compensation expense
related to its various employee share-based incentive plans in its
Consolidated statements of income.
Year ended December 31, (in millions)  2018 2017 2016
Cost of prior grants of RSUs, PSUs and SARs
that are amortized over their applicable
vesting periods  $ 1,241$ 1,125 $ 1,046
Accrual of estimated costs of share-based
awards to be granted in future periods
including those to full-career eligible
employees  1,081 945 894
Total noncash compensation expense
related to employee share-based incentive
plans  $ 2,322$ 2,070 $ 1,940
At December 31, 2018, approximately $704 million (pretax) of
compensation expense related to unvested awards had not yet been
charged to net income. That cost is expected to be amortized into
compensation expense over a weighted-average period of 1.6 years.
The Firm does not capitalize any compensation expense related to
share-based compensation awards to employees. Cash flows and tax benefits
Effective January 1, 2016, the Firm adopted new accounting guidance
related to employee share-based payments. As a result of the adoption
of this new guidance, all excess tax benefits (including tax benefits
from dividends or dividend equivalents) on share-based payment
awards are recognized within income tax expense in the Consolidated
statements of income. Income tax benefits related to share-based
incentive arrangements recognized in the Firm’s Consolidated
statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017
and 2016, were $1.1 billion, $1.0 billion and $916 million,
respectively.
The following table sets forth the cash received from the exercise of
stock options under all share-based incentive arrangements, and the
actual income tax benefit related to tax deductions from the exercise of
the stock options.
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Cash received for options exercised $ 14$ 18$ 26
Tax benefit 75 190 70
210  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Note 10 – Investment securities
Investment securities consist of debt securities that are classified as
AFS or HTM. Debt securities classified as trading assets are discussed
in Note  2. Predominantly all of  the Firm’ s AFS and HTM securities are
held by  Treasury and CIO in connection with its asset-liability
management activities. At December 31, 2018 , the investment
securities portfolio consisted of debt securities with an average credit
rating of  AA+  (based upon external ratings where available, and where
not available, based primarily upon internal ratings which correspond
to ratings as defined by S&P  and Moody’ s). AFS securities are carried
at fair value on the Consolidated balance sheets. Unrealized gains and
losses, after any applicable hedge accounting adjustments, are reported
as net increases or decreases to AOCI. The specific identification
method is used to determine realized gains and losses on AFS
securities, which are included in securities gains/(losses) on the
Consolidated statements of income. HTM debt securities, which  the
Firm has the intent and ability to hold until maturity , are carried at
amortized cost on the Consolidated balance sheets. For both AFS and HTM debt securities, purchase discounts or
premiums are generally amortized into interest income on a level-yield
basis over the contractual life of the security . However , as a result of
the adoption of the premium amortization accounting guidance in the
first quarter of 2018, premiums on purchased callable debt securities
must be amortized to the earliest call date for debt securities with call
features that are explicit, noncontingent and callable at fixed prices and
on preset dates. The guidance primarily impacts obligations of U.S.
states and municipalities held in  the Firm’ s investment securities
portfolio. For additional information, refer to Note  23.
As permitted by the new hedge accounting guidance,  the Firm also
elected to transfer U.S. government agency  MBS,
commercial MBS, and obligations of U.S. states and municipalities
with a carrying value of  $22.4 billion  from HTM to AFS in the first
quarter of 2018. The transfer of these investment securities resulted in
the recognition of a net pretax unrealized gain of  $221 million  within
AOCI. This transfer was a noncash transaction. For additional
information, refer to Notes  1, 5 and 23.
The amortized costs and estimated fair values of the investment securities portfolio were as follows for the dates indicated.
 2018 2017
December 31, (in millions)Amortized
costGross
unrealized
gainsGross unrealized
lossesFair
valueAmortized
costGross
unrealized
gainsGross unrealized
lossesFair
value
Available-for-sale securities     
Mortgage-backed securities:     
U.S. government agencies(a) $ 69,026$ 594$ 974 $ 68,646 $ 69,879$ 736$ 335 $ 70,280
Residential:     
U.S 5,877 79 31 5,925 8,193 185 14 8,364
Non-U.S. 2,529 72 6 2,595 2,882 122 1 3,003
Commercial 6,758 43 147 6,654 4,932 98 5 5,025
Total mortgage-backed securities 84,190 788 1,158 83,820 85,886 1,141 355 86,672
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 55,771 366 78 56,059 22,510 266 31 22,745
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 36,221 1,582 80 37,723 30,490 1,881 33 32,338
Certificates of deposit 75 — — 75 59 — — 59
Non-U.S. government debt securities 23,771 351 20 24,102 26,900 426 32 27,294
Corporate debt securities 1,904 23 9 1,918 2,657 101 1 2,757
Asset-backed securities:     
Collateralized loan obligations 19,612 1 176 19,437 20,928 69 1 20,996
Other 7,225 57 22 7,260 8,764 77 24 8,817
Total available-for-sale debt securities 228,769 3,168 1,543 230,394 198,194 3,961 477 201,678
Available-for-sale equity securities(b) — — — — 547 — — 547
Total available-for-sale securities 228,769 3,168 1,543 230,394 198,741 3,961 477 202,225
Held-to-maturity securities     
Mortgage-backed securities     
U.S. government agencies(c) 26,610 134 200 26,544 27,577 558 40 28,095
Commercial — — — — 5,783 1 74 5,710
Total mortgage-backed securities 26,610 134 200 26,544 33,360 559 114 33,805
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 4,824 105 15 4,914 14,373 554 80 14,847
Total held-to-maturity securities 31,434 239 215 31,458 47,733 1,113 194 48,652
Total investment securities $260,203$ 3,407$ 1,758 $261,852 $246,474$ 5,074$ 671 $250,877
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  211
Notes to consolidated financial statements
(a)Includes total U.S. government-sponsored enterprise obligations with fair values of $50.7 billion  and $45.8 billion  for the years ended December 31, 2018  and 2017  respectively .
(b)Effective January 1, 2018, the Firm adopted the recognition and measurement guidance. Equity securities that were previously reported as AFS securities were reclassified to other assets upon
adoption.
(c)Included total U.S. government-sponsored enterprise obligations with amortized cost of $20.9 billion  and $22.0 billion  at December 31, 2018  and 2017 , respectively .
Investment securities impairment
The following tables present the fair value and gross unrealized losses for investment securities by aging category at December 31, 2018 and 2017.
 Investment securities with gross unrealized losses
 Less than 12 months  12 months or more   
December 31, 2018 (in millions)Fair value Gross unrealized losses Fair valueGross unrealized
losses Total fair valueTotal gross unrealized
losses
Available-for-sale securities        
Mortgage-backed securities:        
U.S. government agencies $ 17,656$ 318 $ 22,728$ 656$ 40,384$ 974
Residential:        
U.S 623 4 1,445 27 2,068 31
Non-U.S. 907 5 165 1 1,072 6
Commercial 974 6 3,172 141 4,146 147
Total mortgage-backed securities 20,160 333 27,510 825 47,670 1,158
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 4,792 7 2,391 71 7,183 78
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 1,808 15 2,477 65 4,285 80
Certificates of deposit 75 — — — 75 —
Non-U.S. government debt securities 3,123 5 1,937 15 5,060 20
Corporate debt securities 478 8 37 1 515 9
Asset-backed securities:        
Collateralized loan obligations 18,681 176 — — 18,681 176
Other 1,208 6 2,354 16 3,562 22
Total available-for-sale securities 50,325 550 36,706 993 87,031 1,543
Held-to-maturity securities        
Mortgage-backed securities        
U.S. government agencies 4,385 23 7,082 177 11,467 200
Commercial — — — — — —
Total mortgage-backed securities 4,385 23 7,082 177 11,467 200
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 12 — 1,114 15 1,126 15
Total held-to-maturity securities 4,397 23 8,196 192 12,593 215
Total investment securities with gross unrealized
losses $ 54,722$ 573 $ 44,902$ 1,185$ 99,624$ 1,758
212  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
 Investment securities with gross unrealized losses
 Less than 12 months  12 months or more  
December 31, 2017 (in millions) Fair valueGross unrealized
losses  Fair valueGross unrealized
losses Total fair valueTotal gross unrealized
losses
Available-for-sale securities      
Mortgage-backed securities:      
U.S. government agencies $ 36,037$ 139 $ 7,711$ 196$ 43,748$ 335
Residential:      
U.S. 1,112 5 596 9 1,708 14
Non-U.S. — — 266 1 266 1
Commercial 528 4 335 1 863 5
Total mortgage-backed securities 37,677 148 8,908 207 46,585 355
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 1,834 11 373 20 2,207 31
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 949 7 1,652 26 2,601 33
Certificates of deposit — — — — — —
Non-U.S. government debt securities 6,500 15 811 17 7,311 32
Corporate debt securities — — 52 1 52 1
Asset-backed securities:      
Collateralized loan obligations — — 276 1 276 1
Other 3,521 20 720 4 4,241 24
Total available-for-sale securities 50,481 201 12,792 276 63,273 477
Held-to-maturity securities      
Mortgage-backed securities      
U.S. government agencies 4,070 38 205 2 4,275 40
Commercial 3,706 41 1,882 33 5,588 74
Total mortgage-backed securities 7,776 79 2,087 35 9,863 114
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 584 9 2,131 71 2,715 80
Total held-to-maturity securities 8,360 88 4,218 106 12,578 194
Total investment securities with gross unrealized
losses $ 58,841$ 289 $ 17,010$ 382$ 75,851$ 671
Other-than-temporary impairment
AFS and HTM debt securities in unrealized loss positions are analyzed
as part of the Firm’s ongoing assessment of OTTI. The Firm considers
a decline in fair value to be other-than-temporary when the Firm does
not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security.
For AFS debt securities, the Firm recognizes OTTI losses in earnings if
the Firm has the intent to sell the debt security, or if it is more likely
than not that the Firm will be required to sell the debt security before
recovery of its amortized cost basis. In these circumstances the
impairment loss is equal to the full difference between the amortized
cost basis and the fair value of the securities.
For debt securities in an unrealized loss position that the Firm has the
intent and ability to hold, the securities are evaluated to determine if a
credit loss exists. In the event of a credit loss, only the amount of
impairment associated with the credit loss is recognized in income.
Amounts relating to factors other than credit losses are recorded in
OCI.
Factors considered in evaluating potential OTTI include adverse
conditions specifically related to the industry, geographic area or
financial condition of the issuer or underlying collateral of a security;
payment structure of the security; changes to the rating of the security by a rating agency; the
volatility of the fair value changes; and the Firm’s intent and ability to
hold the security until recovery.
The Firm’s cash flow evaluations take into account the factors noted
above and expectations of relevant market and economic data as of the
end of the reporting period. When assessing securities issued in a
securitization for OTTI, the Firm estimates cash flows considering
underlying loan-level data and structural features of the securitization,
such as subordination, excess spread, overcollateralization or other
forms of credit enhancement, and compares the losses projected for the
underlying collateral (“pool losses”) against the level of credit
enhancement in the securitization structure to determine whether these
features are sufficient to absorb the pool losses, or whether a credit loss
exists. The Firm also performs other analyses to support its cash flow
projections, such as first-loss analyses or stress scenarios.
For beneficial interests in securitizations that are rated below “AA” at
their acquisition, or that can be contractually prepaid or otherwise
settled in such a way that the Firm would not recover substantially all
of its recorded investment, the Firm considers an impairment to be
other-than-temporary when there is an adverse change in expected cash
flows.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  213
Notes to consolidated financial statements
As a result of the adoption of the recognition and measurement
guidance in the first quarter of 2018, equity securities are no longer
permitted to be classified as AFS. For additional information, refer to
Note 1. Additionally, the Firm did not recognize any OTTI for AFS
equity securities for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.
For the year ended December 31, 2018, the Firm recognized $22
million of unrealized losses as OTTI on securities it intended to sell
and subsequently sold during the year. The Firm does not intend to sell
any of the remaining investment securities with an unrealized loss in
AOCI as of December 31, 2018, and it is not likely that the Firm will
be required to sell these securities before recovery of their amortized
cost basis. Further, the Firm did not recognize any credit-related OTTI
losses during the year ended December 31, 2018. Accordingly, the
Firm believes that the investment securities with an unrealized loss in
AOCI as of December 31, 2018, are not other-than-temporarily
impaired. Investment securities gains and losses
The following table presents realized gains and losses and OTTI from
AFS securities that were recognized in income.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Realized gains $ 211 $ 1,013 $ 401
Realized losses (606) (1,072) (232)
OTTI losses — (7) (28)
Net investment securities gains/(losses) (395) (66) 141
OTTI losses    
Credit-related losses recognized in
income — — (1)
Investment securities the Firm intends
to sell(a) — (7) (27)
Total OTTI losses recognized in income$ — $ (7)$ (28)
(a)Excludes realized losses on securities sold of $22 million, $6 million and $24
million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, that
had been previously reported as an OTTI loss due to the intention to sell the
securities.
Changes in the credit loss component of credit-impaired debt
securities
The cumulative credit loss component, including any changes therein,
of OTTI losses that have been recognized in income related to AFS
securities was not material as of and during the years ended
December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.
214  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Contractual maturities and yields
The following table presents the amortized cost and estimated fair value at December 31, 2018, of JPMorgan Chase’s investment securities portfolio
by contractual maturity.
By remaining maturity
December 31, 2018 (in millions)Due in one
year or less  Due after one year
through five years Due after five years
through 10 yearsDue after
10 years(c)  Total
Available-for-sale securities      
Mortgage-backed securities(a)      
Amortized cost $ 519 $ 77 $ 7,574 $ 76,020 $ 84,190
Fair value 520 77 7,616 75,607 83,820
Average yield(b) 2.02% 3.50% 3.48% 3.52% 3.51%
U.S. Treasury and government agencies      
Amortized cost $ 22,439 $ 17,945 $ 9,618 $ 5,769 $ 55,771
Fair value 22,444 18,090 9,588 5,937 56,059
Average yield(b) 2.42% 2.90% 2.60% 3.05% 2.67%
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities      
Amortized cost $ 177 $ 617 $ 2,698 $ 32,729 $ 36,221
Fair value 176 629 2,790 34,128 37,723
Average yield(b) 1.94% 4.30% 5.26% 5.02% 5.01%
Certificates of deposit      
Amortized cost $ 75 $ — $ — $ — $ 75
Fair value 75 — — — 75
Average yield(b) 0.49% —% —% —% 0.49%
Non-U.S. government debt securities      
Amortized cost $ 5,604 $ 13,117 $ 5,050 $ — $ 23,771
Fair value 5,606 13,314 5,182 — 24,102
Average yield(b) 3.25% 1.95% 1.33% —% 2.13%
Corporate debt securities      
Amortized cost $ 22 $ 950 $ 792 $ 140 $ 1,904
Fair value 22 964 792 140 1,918
Average yield(b) 4.05% 4.64% 4.56% 4.74% 4.60%
Asset-backed securities      
Amortized cost $ — $ 3,222 $ 4,615 $ 19,000 $ 26,837
Fair value — 3,208 4,592 18,897 26,697
Average yield(b) —% 2.85% 3.12% 3.19% 3.14%
Total available-for-sale securities      
Amortized cost $ 28,836 $ 35,928 $ 30,347 $ 133,658 $ 228,769
Fair value 28,843 36,282 30,560 134,709 230,394
Average yield(b) 2.57% 2.62% 2.98% 3.82% 3.36%
Held-to-maturity securities      
Mortgage-backed securities(a)      
Amortized Cost $ — $ — $ 3,125 $ 23,485 $ 26,610
Fair value — — 3,141 23,403 26,544
Average yield(b) —% —% 3.53% 3.34% 3.36%
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities      
Amortized cost $ — $ — $ 20 $ 4,804 $ 4,824
Fair value — — 20 4,894 4,914
Average yield(b) —% —% 3.93% 4.12% 4.12%
Total held-to-maturity securities      
Amortized cost $ — $ — $ 3,145 $ 28,289 $ 31,434
Fair value — — 3,161 28,297 31,458
Average yield(b) —% —% 3.53% 3.47% 3.48%
(a)As of December 31, 2018 , mortgage-backed securities issued by Fannie Mae exceeded 10% of JPMor gan Chase’ s total stockholders’  equity; both the amortized cost and fair value of such
securities was $ 52.3 billion .
(b)Average yield is computed using the effective yield of each security owned at the end of the period, weighted based on the amortized cost of each security. The effective yield considers the contractual
coupon, amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts, and the effect of related hedging derivatives. Taxable-equivalent amounts are used where applicable. The effective yield excludes unscheduled
principal prepayments; and accordingly, actual maturities of securities may differ from their contractual or expected maturities as certain securities may be prepaid.
(c)Substantially all of the Firm’s U.S. residential MBS and collateralized mortgage obligations are due in 10 years or more, based on contractual maturity. The estimated weighted-average life, which reflects
anticipated future prepayments, is approximately 7 years for agency residential MBS, 3 years for agency residential collateralized mortgage obligations and 2 years for nonagency residential collateralized
mortgage obligations.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  215
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 1 1 – Securities financing activities
JPMorgan Chase enters into resale, repurchase, securities borrowed
and securities loaned agreements (collectively, “securities financing
agreements”) primarily to finance the Firm’s inventory positions,
acquire securities to cover short sales, accommodate customers’
financing needs, settle other securities obligations and to deploy the
Firm’s excess cash.
Securities financing agreements are treated as collateralized financings
on the Firm’s Consolidated balance sheets. Resale and repurchase
agreements are generally carried at the amounts at which the securities
will be subsequently sold or repurchased. Securities borrowed and
securities loaned agreements are generally carried at the amount of
cash collateral advanced or received. Where appropriate under
applicable accounting guidance, securities financing agreements with
the same counterparty are reported on a net basis. For further
discussion of the offsetting of assets and liabilities, refer to Note 1.
Fees received and paid in connection with securities financing
agreements are recorded over the life of the agreement in interest
income and interest expense on the Consolidated statements of income.
The Firm has elected the fair value option for certain securities
financing agreements. For further information regarding the fair value
option, refer to Note 3. The securities financing agreements for which
the fair value option has been elected are reported within securities
purchased under resale agreements, securities loaned or sold under
repurchase agreements, and securities borrowed on the Consolidated
balance sheets. Generally, for agreements carried at fair value, current-
period interest accruals are recorded within interest income and
interest expense, with changes in fair value reported in principal
transactions revenue. However, for financial instruments containing
embedded derivatives that would be separately accounted for in
accordance with accounting guidance for hybrid instruments, all
changes in fair value, including any interest elements, are reported in
principal transactions revenue. Securities financing agreements expose the Firm primarily to credit
and liquidity risk. To manage these risks, the Firm monitors the value
of the underlying securities (predominantly high-quality securities
collateral, including government-issued debt and agency MBS) that it
has received from or provided to its counterparties compared to the
value of cash proceeds and exchanged collateral, and either requests
additional collateral or returns securities or collateral when
appropriate. Margin levels are initially established based upon the
counterparty, the type of underlying securities, and the permissible
collateral, and are monitored on an ongoing basis.
In resale and securities borrowed agreements, the Firm is exposed to
credit risk to the extent that the value of the securities received is less
than initial cash principal advanced and any collateral amounts
exchanged. In repurchase and securities loaned agreements, credit risk
exposure arises to the extent that the value of underlying securities
advanced exceeds the value of the initial cash principal received, and
any collateral amounts exchanged.
Additionally, the Firm typically enters into master netting agreements
and other similar arrangements with its counterparties, which provide
for the right to liquidate the underlying securities and any collateral
amounts exchanged in the event of a counterparty default. It is also the
Firm’s policy to take possession, where possible, of the securities
underlying resale and securities borrowed agreements. For further
information regarding assets pledged and collateral received in
securities financing agreements, refer to Note 28.
As a result of the Firm’s credit risk mitigation practices with respect to
resale and securities borrowed agreements as described above, the
Firm did not hold any reserves for credit impairment with respect to
these agreements as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.
216  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
The table below summarizes the gross and net amounts of the Firm’s securities financing agreements, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. When the
Firm has obtained an appropriate legal opinion with respect to the master netting agreement with a counterparty and where other relevant netting
criteria under U.S. GAAP are met, the Firm nets, on the Consolidated balance sheets, the balances outstanding under its securities financing
agreements with the same counterparty. In addition, the Firm exchanges securities and/or cash collateral with its counterparties; this collateral also
reduces the economic exposure with the Firm has an appropriate legal opinion with respect to the master netting agreement with the counterparty.
Where a legal opinion has not been either sought or obtained, the securities financing balances are presented gross in the “Net amounts” below, and
related collateral does not reduce the amounts presented. the Firm has an appropriate legal opinion with respect to the master netting agreement with
the counterparty. Where a legal opinion has not been either sought or obtained, the securities financing balances are presented gross in the “Net
amounts” below, and related collateral does not reduce the amounts presented. the counterparty. Such collateral, along with securities financing
balances that do not meet all these relevant netting criteria under U.S. GAAP, is presented as “Amounts not nettable on the Consolidated balance
sheets,” and reduces the “Net amounts” presented below, if the Firm has an appropriate legal opinion with respect to the master netting agreement
with the counterparty. Where a legal opinion has not been either sought or obtained, the securities financing balances are presented gross in the “Net
amounts” below, and related collateral does not reduce the amounts presented.
 2018
December 31, (in millions) Gross amountsAmounts netted on
the Consolidated
balance sheetsAmounts presented on
the Consolidated
balance sheets(b)Amounts not nettable on
the Consolidated
balance sheets(c) Net amounts(d)
Assets   
Securities purchased under resale agreements $ 691,116$ (369,612)$ 321,504$ (308,854)$ 12,650
Securities borrowed 132,955 (20,960) 111,995 (79,747) 32,248
Liabilities   
Securities sold under repurchase agreements $ 541,587$ (369,612)$ 171,975$ (149,125)$ 22,850
Securities loaned and other(a) 33,700 (20,960) 12,740 (12,358) 382
 2017
December 31, (in millions) Gross amountsAmounts netted on
the Consolidated
balance sheetsAmounts presented on
the Consolidated
balance sheets(b)Amounts not nettable on
the Consolidated
balance sheets(c) Net amounts(d)
Assets   
Securities purchased under resale agreements $ 448,608$ (250,505)$ 198,103$ (188,502)$ 9,601
Securities borrowed 113,926 (8,814) 105,112 (76,805) 28,307
Liabilities   
Securities sold under repurchase agreements $ 398,218$ (250,505)$ 147,713$ (129,178)$ 18,535
Securities loaned and other(a) 27,228 (8,814) 18,414 (18,151) 263
(a)Includes securities-for-securities lending agreements of $3.3 billion and $9.2 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, accounted for at fair value, where the Firm is
acting as lender. These amounts are presented within accounts payable and other liabilities in the Consolidated balance sheets.
(b)Includes securities financing agreements accounted for at fair value. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, included securities purchased under resale agreements of $13.2 billion and
$14.7 billion, respectively; securities sold under repurchase agreements of $935 million and $697 million, respectively; and securities borrowed of $5.1 billion and $3.0 billion,
respectively. There were no securities loaned accounted for at fair value in either period.
(c)In some cases, collateral exchanged with a counterparty exceeds the net asset or liability balance with that counterparty. In such cases, the amounts reported in this column are
limited to the related net asset or liability with that counterparty.
(d)Includes securities financing agreements that provide collateral rights, but where an appropriate legal opinion with respect to the master netting agreement has not been either sought
or obtained. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, included $7.9 billion and $7.5 billion, respectively, of securities purchased under resale agreements; $30.3 billion and $25.5 billion,
respectively, of securities borrowed; $21.5 billion and $16.5 billion, respectively, of securities sold under repurchase agreements; and $25 million and $29 million, respectively, of
securities loaned and other.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  217
Notes to consolidated financial statements
The tables below present as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 the types of financial assets pledged in securities financing agreements and the
remaining contractual maturity of the securities financing agreements.
 Gross liability balance
 2018 2017
December 31, (in millions)Securities sold under
repurchase agreementsSecurities loaned and
otherSecurities sold under
repurchase agreementsSecurities loaned and
other
Mortgage-backed securities:
U.S. government agencies $ 28,811$ — $ 13,100$ —
Residential - nonagency 2,165 — 2,972 —
Commercial - nonagency 1,390 — 1,594 —
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 323,078 69 177,581 14
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 1,150 — 1,557 —
Non-U.S. government debt 154,900 4,313 170,196 2,485
Corporate debt securities 13,898 428 14,231 287
Asset-backed securities 3,867 — 3,508 —
Equity securities 12,328 28,890 13,479 24,442
Total $ 541,587$ 33,700 $ 398,218$ 27,228
 Remaining contractual maturity of the agreements
 
Overnight and
continuous    
Greater than
90 days 2018 (in millions)  Up to 30 days 30 – 90 days Total
Total securities sold under repurchase agreements $ 247,579 $ 174,971 $ 71,637$ 47,400$ 541,587
Total securities loaned and other 28,402 997 2,132 2,169 33,700
 Remaining contractual maturity of the agreements
 
Overnight and
continuous  
Greater than
90 days 2017 (in millions) Up to 30 days 30 – 90 days Total
Total securities sold under repurchase agreements $ 142,185(a) $ 180,674(a) $ 41,611$ 33,748$ 398,218
Total securities loaned and other 22,876 375 2,328 1,649 27,228
(a)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
Transfers not qualifying for sale accounting
At December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Firm held $701 million and $1.5 billion, respectively, of financial assets for which the rights have been
transferred to third parties; however, the transfers did not qualify as a sale in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These transfers have been recognized as
collateralized financing transactions. The transferred assets are recorded in trading assets and loans, and the corresponding liabilities are recorded
predominantly in short-term borrowings on the Consolidated balance sheets.
218  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Note 12 – Loans
Loan accounting framework
The accounting for a loan depends on management’s strategy for the
loan, and on whether the loan was credit-impaired at the date of
acquisition. The Firm accounts for loans based on the following
categories:
•Originated or purchased loans held-for-investment (i.e., “retained”),
other than PCI loans
•Loans held-for-sale
•Loans at fair value
•PCI loans held-for-investment
The following provides a detailed accounting discussion of these loan
categories:
Loans held-for-investment (other than PCI loans)
Originated or purchased loans held-for-investment, other than PCI
loans, are recorded at the principal amount outstanding, net of the
following: charge-offs; interest applied to principal (for loans
accounted for on the cost recovery method); unamortized discounts
and premiums; and net deferred loan fees or costs. Credit card loans
also include billed finance charges and fees net of an allowance for
uncollectible amounts.
Interest income
Interest income on performing loans held-for-investment, other than
PCI loans, is accrued and recognized as interest income at the
contractual rate of interest. Purchase price discounts or premiums, as
well as net deferred loan fees or costs, are amortized into interest
income over the contractual life of the loan as an adjustment of yield.
Nonaccrual loans
Nonaccrual loans are those on which the accrual of interest has been
suspended. Loans (other than credit card loans and certain consumer
loans insured by U.S. government agencies) are placed on nonaccrual
status and considered nonperforming when full payment of principal
and interest is not expected, regardless of delinquency status, or when
principal and interest has been in default for a period of 90 days or
more, unless the loan is both well-secured and in the process of
collection. A loan is determined to be past due when the minimum
payment is not received from the borrower by the contractually
specified due date or for certain loans (e.g., residential real estate
loans), when a monthly payment is due and unpaid for 30 days or
more. Finally, collateral-dependent loans are typically maintained on
nonaccrual status.
On the date a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, all interest accrued
but not collected is reversed against interest income. In addition, the
amortization of deferred amounts is suspended. Interest income on
nonaccrual loans may be recognized as cash interest payments are
received (i.e., on a cash basis) if the recorded loan balance is deemed
fully collectible; however, if there is doubt regarding the ultimate
collectibility of the recorded loan balance, all interest cash receipts are
applied to reduce the carrying value of the loan (the cost recovery method). For consumer
loans, application of this policy typically results in the Firm
recognizing interest income on nonaccrual consumer loans on a cash
basis.
A loan may be returned to accrual status when repayment is reasonably
assured and there has been demonstrated performance under the terms
of the loan or, if applicable, the terms of the restructured loan.
As permitted by regulatory guidance, credit card loans are generally
exempt from being placed on nonaccrual status; accordingly, interest
and fees related to credit card loans continue to accrue until the loan is
charged off or paid in full. The Firm separately establishes an
allowance, which reduces loans and is charged to interest income, for
the estimated uncollectible portion of accrued and billed interest and
fee income on credit card loans.
Allowance for loan losses
The allowance for loan losses represents the estimated probable credit
losses inherent in the held-for-investment loan portfolio at the balance
sheet date and is recognized on the balance sheet as a contra asset,
which brings the recorded investment to the net carrying value.
Changes in the allowance for loan losses are recorded in the provision
for credit losses on the Firm’s Consolidated statements of income.
Refer to Note 13 for further information on the Firm’s accounting
policies for the allowance for loan losses.
Charge-offs
Consumer loans, other than risk-rated business banking and auto loans,
and PCI loans, are generally charged off or charged down to the net
realizable value of the underlying collateral (i.e., fair value less costs to
sell), with an offset to the allowance for loan losses, upon reaching
specified stages of delinquency in accordance with standards
established by the FFIEC. Residential real estate loans and non-
modified credit card loans are generally charged off no later than 180
days past due. Scored auto and modified credit card loans are charged
off no later than 120 days past due.
Certain consumer loans will be charged off or charged down to their
net realizable value earlier than the FFIEC charge-off standards in
certain circumstances as follows:
•Loans modified in a TDR that are determined to be collateral-
dependent.
•Loans to borrowers who have experienced an event that suggests a
loss is either known or highly certain are subject to accelerated
charge-off standards (e.g., residential real estate and auto loans are
charged off within 60 days of receiving notification of a bankruptcy
filing).
•Auto loans upon repossession of the automobile.
Other than in certain limited circumstances, the Firm typically does not
recognize charge-offs on government-guaranteed loans.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  219
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Wholesale loans, risk-rated business banking loans and risk-rated auto
loans are charged off when it is highly certain that a loss has been
realized, including situations where a loan is determined to be both
impaired and collateral-dependent. The determination of whether to
recognize a charge-off includes many factors, including the
prioritization of the Firm’s claim in bankruptcy, expectations of the
workout/restructuring of the loan and valuation of the borrower’s
equity or the loan collateral.
When a loan is charged down to the estimated net realizable value, the
determination of the fair value of the collateral depends on the type of
collateral (e.g., securities, real estate). In cases where the collateral is
in the form of liquid securities, the fair value is based on quoted
market prices or broker quotes. For illiquid securities or other financial
assets, the fair value of the collateral is estimated using a discounted
cash flow model.
For residential real estate loans, collateral values are based upon
external valuation sources. When it becomes likely that a borrower is
either unable or unwilling to pay, the Firm utilizes a broker’s price
opinion, appraisal and/or an automated valuation model of the home
based on an exterior-only valuation (“exterior opinions”), which is
then updated at least every twelve months, or more frequently
depending on various market factors. As soon as practicable after the
Firm receives the property in satisfaction of a debt (e.g., by taking
legal title or physical possession), the Firm generally obtains an
appraisal based on an inspection that includes the interior of the home
(“interior appraisals”). Exterior opinions and interior appraisals are
discounted based upon the Firm’s experience with actual liquidation
values as compared with the estimated values provided by exterior
opinions and interior appraisals, considering state-specific factors.
For commercial real estate loans, collateral values are generally based
on appraisals from internal and external valuation sources. Collateral
values are typically updated every six to twelve months, either by
obtaining a new appraisal or by performing an internal analysis, in
accordance with the Firm’s policies. The Firm also considers both
borrower- and market-specific factors, which may result in obtaining
appraisal updates or broker price opinions at more frequent intervals. Loans held-for-sale
Held-for-sale loans are measured at the lower of cost or fair value, with
valuation changes recorded in noninterest revenue. For consumer
loans, the valuation is performed on a portfolio basis. For wholesale
loans, the valuation is performed on an individual loan basis.
Interest income on loans held-for-sale is accrued and recognized based
on the contractual rate of interest.
Loan origination fees or costs and purchase price discounts or
premiums are deferred in a contra loan account until the related loan is
sold. The deferred fees or costs and discounts or premiums are an
adjustment to the basis of the loan and therefore are included in the
periodic determination of the lower of cost or fair value adjustments
and/or the gain or loss recognized at the time of sale.
Held-for-sale loans are subject to the nonaccrual policies described
above.
Because held-for-sale loans are recognized at the lower of cost or fair
value, the Firm’s allowance for loan losses and charge-off policies do
not apply to these loans.
Loans at fair value
Loans used in a market-making strategy or risk managed on a fair
value basis are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value
recorded in noninterest revenue.
Interest income on these loans is accrued and recognized based on the
contractual rate of interest. Changes in fair value are recognized in
noninterest revenue. Loan origination fees are recognized upfront in
noninterest revenue. Loan origination costs are recognized in the
associated expense category as incurred.
Because these loans are recognized at fair value, the Firm’s allowance
for loan losses and charge-off policies do not apply to these loans.
However, loans at fair value are subject to the nonaccrual policies
described above.
Refer to Note 3 for further information on the Firm’s elections of fair
value accounting under the fair value option. Refer to Note 2 and Note
3 for further information on loans carried at fair value and classified as
trading assets.
PCI loans
PCI loans held-for-investment are initially measured at fair value. PCI
loans have evidence of credit deterioration since the loan’s origination
date and therefore it is probable, at acquisition, that all contractually
required payments will not be collected. Because PCI loans are
initially measured at fair value, which includes an estimate of future
credit losses, no allowance for loan losses related to PCI loans is
recorded at the acquisition date. Refer to page 231 of this Note for
information on accounting for PCI loans subsequent to their
acquisition.
220  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Loan classification changes
Loans in the held-for-investment portfolio that management decides to
sell are transferred to the held-for-sale portfolio at the lower of cost or
fair value on the date of transfer. Credit-related losses are charged
against the allowance for loan losses; non-credit related losses such as
those due to changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange
rates are recognized in noninterest revenue.
In the event that management decides to retain a loan in the held-for-
sale portfolio, the loan is transferred to the held-for-investment
portfolio at the lower of cost or fair value on the date of transfer. These
loans are subsequently assessed for impairment based on the Firm’s
allowance methodology. For a further discussion of the methodologies
used in establishing the Firm’s allowance for loan losses, refer to Note
13.
Loan modifications
The Firm seeks to modify certain loans in conjunction with its loss-
mitigation activities. Through the modification, JPMorgan Chase
grants one or more concessions to a borrower who is experiencing
financial difficulty in order to minimize the Firm’s economic loss and
avoid foreclosure or repossession of the collateral, and to ultimately
maximize payments received by the Firm from the borrower. The
concessions granted vary by program and by borrower-specific
characteristics, and may include interest rate reductions, term
extensions, payment deferrals, principal forgiveness, or the acceptance
of equity or other assets in lieu of payments.
Such modifications are accounted for and reported as TDRs. A loan
that has been modified in a TDR is generally considered to be impaired
until it matures, is repaid, or is otherwise liquidated, regardless of
whether the borrower performs under the modified terms. In certain
limited cases, the effective interest rate applicable to the modified loan
is at or above the current market rate at the time of the restructuring. In
such circumstances, and assuming that the loan subsequently performs
under its modified terms and the Firm expects to collect all contractual
principal and interest cash flows, the loan is disclosed as impaired and
as a TDR only during the year of the modification; in subsequent
years, the loan is not disclosed as an impaired loan or as a TDR so long
as repayment of the restructured loan under its modified terms is
reasonably assured. Loans, except for credit card loans, modified in a TDR are generally
placed on nonaccrual status, although in many cases such loans were
already on nonaccrual status prior to modification. These loans may be
returned to performing status (the accrual of interest is resumed) if the
following criteria are met: (i) the borrower has performed under the
modified terms for a minimum of six months and/or six payments, and
(ii) the Firm has an expectation that repayment of the modified loan is
reasonably assured based on, for example, the borrower’s debt capacity
and level of future earnings, collateral values, LTV ratios, and other
current market considerations. In certain limited and well-defined
circumstances in which the loan is current at the modification date,
such loans are not placed on nonaccrual status at the time of
modification.
Because loans modified in TDRs are considered to be impaired, these
loans are measured for impairment using the Firm’s established asset-
specific allowance methodology, which considers the expected re-
default rates for the modified loans. A loan modified in a TDR
generally remains subject to the asset-specific allowance methodology
throughout its remaining life, regardless of whether the loan is
performing and has been returned to accrual status and/or the loan has
been removed from the impaired loans disclosures (i.e., loans
restructured at market rates). For further discussion of the
methodology used to estimate the Firm’s asset-specific allowance,
refer to Note 13.
Foreclosed property
The Firm acquires property from borrowers through loan
restructurings, workouts, and foreclosures. Property acquired may
include real property (e.g., residential real estate, land, and buildings)
and commercial and personal property (e.g., automobiles, aircraft,
railcars, and ships).
The Firm recognizes foreclosed property upon receiving assets in
satisfaction of a loan (e.g., by taking legal title or physical possession).
For loans collateralized by real property, the Firm generally recognizes
the asset received at foreclosure sale or upon the execution of a deed in
lieu of foreclosure transaction with the borrower. Foreclosed assets are
reported in other assets on the Consolidated balance sheets and initially
recognized at fair value less costs to sell. Each quarter the fair value of
the acquired property is reviewed and adjusted, if necessary, to the
lower of cost or fair value. Subsequent adjustments to fair value are
charged/credited to noninterest revenue. Operating expense, such as
real estate taxes and maintenance, are charged to other expense.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  221
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Loan portfolio
The Firm’s loan portfolio is divided into three portfolio segments, which are the same segments used by the Firm to determine the allowance for
loan losses: Consumer, excluding credit card; Credit card; and Wholesale. Within each portfolio segment the Firm monitors and assesses the credit
risk in the following classes of loans, based on the risk characteristics of each loan class.
Consumer, excluding
credit card(a)
 Credit cardWholesale(f)
Residential real estate – excluding PCI
• Residential mortgage (b)
• Home equity (c)
Other consumer loans (d)
• Auto
• Consumer & Business Banking (e)
Residential real estate – PCI
• Home equity
• Prime mortgage
• Subprime mortgage
• Option ARMs  • Credit card loans • Commercial and industrial
• Real estate
• Financial institutions
• Governments & Agencies
• Other (g)
(a)Includes loans held in CCB, prime mortgage and home equity loans held in AWM and prime mortgage loans held in Corporate.
(b)Predominantly includes prime (including option ARMs) and subprime loans.
(c)Includes senior and junior lien home equity loans.
(d)Includes certain business banking and auto dealer risk-rated loans that apply the wholesale methodology for determining the allowance for loan losses; these loans are managed by
CCB, and therefore, for consistency in presentation, are included with the other consumer loan classes.
(e)Predominantly includes Business Banking loans.
(f)Includes loans held in CIB, CB, AWM and Corporate. Excludes prime mortgage and home equity loans held in AWM and prime mortgage loans held in Corporate. Classes are
internally defined and may not align with regulatory definitions.
(g)Includes loans to: individuals and individual entities (predominantly consists of Wealth Management clients within AWM and includes exposure to personal investment companies
and personal and testamentary trusts), SPEs and Private education and civic organizations. For more information on SPEs, refer to Note 14.
The following tables summarize the Firm’s loan balances by portfolio segment.
December 31, 2018Consumer, excluding
credit card Credit card(a) Wholesale Total (in millions)
Retained  $ 373,637 $ 156,616 $ 439,162 $ 969,415(b) 
Held-for-sale  95 16 11,877 11,988
At fair value  — — 3,151 3,151
Total  $ 373,732 $ 156,632 $ 454,190 $ 984,554
    
December 31, 2017Consumer, excluding
credit card Credit card(a) Wholesale Total (in millions)
Retained  $ 372,553 $ 149,387 $ 402,898 $ 924,838(b) 
Held-for-sale  128 124 3,099 3,351
At fair value  — — 2,508 2,508
Total  $ 372,681 $ 149,511 $ 408,505 $ 930,697
(a)Includes accrued interest and fees net of an allowance for the uncollectible portion of accrued interest and fee income.
(b)Loans (other than PCI loans and those for which the fair value option has been elected) are presented net of unamortized discounts and premiums and net deferred loan fees or costs.
These amounts were not material as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.
222  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
The following tables provide information about the carrying value of retained loans purchased, sold and reclassified to held-for-sale during the
periods indicated. Reclassifications of loans to held-for sale are non-cash transactions. The Firm manages its exposure to credit risk on an ongoing
basis. Selling loans is one way that the Firm reduces its credit exposures. Loans that were reclassified to held-for-sale and sold in a subsequent
period are excluded from the sales line of this table.
 2018
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)Consumer, excluding
credit card Credit card Wholesale Total
Purchases $ 2,543(a)(b)  $ —  $ 2,354 $ 4,897
Sales 9,984  —  16,741 26,725
Retained loans reclassified to held-for-sale 36  —  2,276 2,312
 2017
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)Consumer, excluding
credit card Credit card Wholesale Total
Purchases $ 3,461(a)(b)  $ —  $ 1,799 $ 5,260
Sales 3,405  —  11,063 14,468
Retained loans reclassified to held-for-sale 6,340(c) —  1,229 7,569
 2016
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)Consumer, excluding
credit card Credit card Wholesale Total
Purchases $ 4,116(a)(b)  $ —  $ 1,448 $ 5,564
Sales 6,368  —  8,739 15,107
Retained loans reclassified to held-for-sale 321  —  2,381 2,702
(a)Purchases predominantly represent the Firm’s voluntary repurchase of certain delinquent loans from loan pools as permitted by Government National Mortgage Association (“Ginnie
Mae”) guidelines. The Firm typically elects to repurchase these delinquent loans as it continues to service them and/or manage the foreclosure process in accordance with applicable
requirements of Ginnie Mae, FHA, RHS, and/or VA.
(b)Excludes purchases of retained loans sourced through the correspondent origination channel and underwritten in accordance with the Firm’s standards. Such purchases were $18.6
billion, $23.5 billion and $30.4 billion for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
(c)Includes the Firm’s student loan portfolio which was sold in 2017.
Gains and losses on sales of loans
Gains and losses on sales of loans (including adjustments to record loans held-for-sale at the lower of cost or fair value) recognized in other income
were not material to the Firm for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. In addition, the sale of loans may also result in write downs,
recoveries or changes in the allowance recognized in the provision for credit losses.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  223
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Consumer , excluding cr edit card, loan portfolio
Consumer loans, excluding credit card loans, consist primarily of
residential mortgages, home equity loans and lines of credit, auto loans
and consumer and business banking loans, with a focus on serving the
prime consumer credit market. The portfolio also includes home equity
loans secured by junior liens, prime mortgage loans with an interest-
only payment period, and certain payment-option loans that may result
in negative amortization.
The following table provides information about retained consumer
loans, excluding credit card, by class. In 2017, the Firm sold its student
loan portfolio.
December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017
Residential real estate – excluding PCI  
Residential mortgage $ 231,078$ 216,496
Home equity 28,340 33,450
Other consumer loans  
Auto 63,573 66,242
Consumer & Business Banking 26,612 25,789
Residential real estate – PCI  
Home equity 8,963 10,799
Prime mortgage 4,690 6,479
Subprime mortgage 1,945 2,609
Option ARMs 8,436 10,689
Total retained loans $ 373,637$ 372,553 Delinquency rates are a primary credit quality indicator for consumer
loans. Loans that are more than 30 days past due provide an early
warning of borrowers who may be experiencing financial difficulties
and/or who may be unable or unwilling to repay the loan. As the loan
continues to age, it becomes more clear whether the borrower is likely
either unable or unwilling to pay. In the case of residential real estate
loans, late-stage delinquencies (greater than 150 days past due) are a
strong indicator of loans that will ultimately result in a foreclosure or
similar liquidation transaction. In addition to delinquency rates, other
credit quality indicators for consumer loans vary based on the class of
loan, as follows:
•For residential real estate loans, including both non-PCI and PCI
portfolios, the current estimated LTV ratio, or the combined LTV
ratio in the case of junior lien loans, is an indicator of the potential
loss severity in the event of default. Additionally, LTV or combined
LTV ratios can provide insight into a borrower’s continued
willingness to pay, as the delinquency rate of high-LTV loans tends
to be greater than that for loans where the borrower has equity in
the collateral. The geographic distribution of the loan collateral also
provides insight as to the credit quality of the portfolio, as factors
such as the regional economy, home price changes and specific
events such as natural disasters, will affect credit quality. The
borrower’s current or “refreshed” FICO score is a secondary credit-
quality indicator for certain loans, as FICO scores are an indication
of the borrower’s credit payment history. Thus, a loan to a borrower
with a low FICO score (less than 660 ) is considered to be of higher
risk than a loan to a borrower with a higher FICO score. Further, a
loan to a borrower with a high LTV ratio and a low FICO score is at
greater risk of default than a loan to a borrower that has both a high
LTV ratio and a high FICO score.
•For scored auto and scored business banking loans, geographic
distribution is an indicator of the credit performance of the
portfolio. Similar to residential real estate loans, geographic
distribution provides insights into the portfolio performance based
on regional economic activity and events.
•Risk-rated business banking and auto loans are similar to wholesale
loans in that the primary credit quality indicators are the risk rating
that is assigned to the loan and whether the loans are considered to
be criticized and/or nonaccrual. Risk ratings are reviewed on a
regular and ongoing basis by Credit Risk Management and are
adjusted as necessary for updated information about borrowers’
ability to fulfill their obligations. For further information about
risk-rated wholesale loan credit quality indicators, refer to page 236
of this Note.
224  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Residential real estate — excluding PCI loans
The following table provides information by class for retained residential real estate — excluding PCI loans.
Residential real estate – excluding PCI loans    
December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)Residential mortgage Home equity  Total residential real estate –
excluding PCI
2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017
Loan delinquency (a)    
Current $ 225,899 $ 208,713 $ 27,61 1 $ 32,391  $ 253,510 $ 241,104
30–149 days past due 2,763 4,234 453 671  3,216 4,905
150 or more days past due 2,416 3,549 276 388  2,692 3,937
Total r etained loans $ 231,078 $ 216,496 $ 28,340 $ 33,450  $ 259,418 $ 249,946
% of 30+ days past due to total retained loans (b) 0.48% 0.77% 2.57% 3.17% 0.71% 1.09%
90 or more days past due and government guarantee d(c) $ 2,541 $ 4,172 — — $ 2,541 $ 4,172
Nonaccrual loans 1,765 2,175 1,323 1,610  3,088 3,785
Curr ent estimated L TV ratios (d)(e)    
Greater than 125% and refreshed FICO scores:    
Equal to or greater than 660 $ 25 $ 37 $ 6 $ 10 $ 31 $ 47
Less than 660 13 19 1 3 14 22
101% to 125% and refreshed FICO scores:    
Equal to or greater than 660 37 36 111 296  148 332
Less than 660 53 88 38 95 91 183
80% to 100% and refreshed FICO scores:    
Equal to or greater than 660 3,977 4,369 986 1,676  4,963 6,045
Less than 660 281 483 326 569  607 1,052
Less than 80% and refreshed FICO scores:    
Equal to or greater than 660 212,505 194,758 22,632 25,262  235,137 220,020
Less than 660 6,457 6,952 3,355 3,850  9,812 10,802
No FICO/L TV available 813 1,259 885 1,689  1,698 2,948
U.S. government-guaranteed 6,917 8,495 — — 6,917 8,495
Total r etained loans $ 231,078 $ 216,496 $ 28,340 $ 33,450  $ 259,418 $ 249,946
Geographic r egion (f)    
California $ 74,759 $ 68,855 $ 5,695 $ 6,582  $ 80,454 $ 75,437
New York 28,847 27,473 5,769 6,866  34,616 34,339
Illinois 15,249 14,501 2,131 2,521  17,380 17,022
Texas 13,769 12,508 1,819 2,021  15,588 14,529
Florida 10,704 9,598 1,575 1,847  12,279 11,445
Washington 8,304 6,962 869 1,026  9,173 7,988
New Jersey 7,302 7,142 1,642 1,957  8,944 9,099
Colorado 8,140 7,335 521 632  8,661 7,967
Massachusetts 6,574 6,323 236 295  6,810 6,618
Arizona 4,434 4,109 1,158 1,439  5,592 5,548
All other (g) 52,996 51,690 6,925 8,264  59,921 59,954
Total r etained loans $ 231,078 $ 216,496 $ 28,340 $ 33,450  $ 259,418 $ 249,946
(a)Individual delinquency classifications include mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies as follows: current included $2.8 billion  and $2.4 billion ; 30–149 days past due included
$2.1 billion  and $3.2 billion ; and 150 or more days past due included $2.0 billion  and $2.9 billion  at December 31, 2018  and 2017 , respectively .
(b)At December 31, 2018  and 2017 , residential mortgage loans excluded mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $4.1 billion  and $6.1 billion , respectively , that are 30 or more
days past due. These amounts have been excluded based upon the government guarantee.
(c)These balances, which are 90 days  or more past due, were excluded from nonaccrual loans as the loans are guaranteed by U.S government agencies. Typically the principal balance of the loans
is insured and interest is guaranteed at a specified reimbursement rate subject to meeting agreed-upon servicing guidelines. At December 31, 2018  and 2017 , these balances included $999
million  and $1.5 billion , respectively , of loans that are no longer accruing interest based on the agreed-upon servicing guidelines. For the remaining balance, interest is being accrued at the
guaranteed reimbursement rate. There were no loans that were not guaranteed by U.S. government agencies that are 90 or more days past due and still accruing interest at December 31, 2018
and 2017 .
(d)Represents the aggregate unpaid principal balance of loans divided by the estimated current property value. Current property values are estimated, at a minimum, quarterly , based on home
valuation models using nationally recognized home price index valuation estimates incorporating actual data to the extent available and forecasted data where actual data is not available. These
property values do not represent actual appraised loan level collateral values; as such, the resulting ratios are necessarily imprecise and should be viewed as estimates. Current estimated
combined L TV for junior lien home equity loans considers all available lien positions, as well as unused lines, related to the property .
(e)Refreshed FICO scores represent each borrower ’s most recent credit score, which is obtained by the Firm on at least a quarterly basis.
(f)The geographic regions presented in the table are ordered based on the magnitude of the corresponding loan balances at December 31, 2018 .
(g)At December 31, 2018  and 2017 , included mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $6.9 billion  and $8.5 billion , respectively . These amounts have been excluded from the
geographic regions presented based upon the government guarantee.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  225
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Approximately 37% of the home equity portfolio are senior lien loans; the remaining balance are junior lien HELOANs or HELOCs. The following
table provides the Firm’s delinquency statistics for junior lien home equity loans and lines as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.
  Total loans Total 30+ day delinquency rate
December 31, (in millions except ratios)  2018 2017 2018 2017
HELOCs:(a)    
Within the revolving period(b)  $ 5,608$ 6,363 0.25% 0.50%
Beyond the revolving period  11,286 13,532 2.80 3.56
HELOANs  1,030 1,371 2.82 3.50
Total  $ 17,924$ 21,266 2.00% 2.64%
(a) These HELOCs are predominantly revolving loans for a 10-year period, after which time the HELOC converts to a loan with a 20-year amortization period, but also include HELOCs
that allow interest-only payments beyond the revolving period.
(b) The Firm manages the risk of HELOCs during their revolving period by closing or reducing the undrawn line to the extent permitted by law when borrowers are experiencing
financial difficulty.
HELOCs beyond the revolving period and HELOANs have higher delinquency rates than HELOCs within the revolving period. That is primarily
because the fully-amortizing payment that is generally required for those products is higher than the minimum payment options available for
HELOCs within the revolving period. The higher delinquency rates associated with amortizing HELOCs and HELOANs are factored into the
Firm’s allowance for loan losses.
Impaired loans
The table below provides information about the Firm’s residential real estate impaired loans, excluding PCI loans. These loans are considered to be
impaired as they have been modified in a TDR. All impaired loans are evaluated for an asset-specific allowance as described in Note 13.
December 31,
(in millions)Residential mortgage  Home equityTotal residential real estate
– excluding PCI
2018 2017  2018 2017 2018 2017
Impair ed loans     
With an allowance $ 3,381 $ 4,407  $ 1,142 $ 1,236 $ 4,523 $ 5,643
Without an allowance (a) 1,184 1,213  870 882 2,054 2,095
Total impair ed loans (b)(c) $ 4,565 $ 5,620  $ 2,012 $ 2,118 $ 6,577 $ 7,738
Allowance for loan losses related to impaired loans $ 88 $ 62 $ 45 $ 111 $ 133 $ 173
Unpaid principal balance of impaired loans (d) 6,207 7,741  3,466 3,701 9,673 11,442
Impaired loans on nonaccrual status (e) 1,459 1,743  955 1,032 2,414 2,775
(a)Represents collateral-dependent residential real estate loans that are charged off to the fair value of the underlying collateral less costs to sell. The Firm reports, in accordance with
regulatory guidance, residential real estate loans that have been discharged under Chapter 7 bankruptcy and not reaffirmed by the borrower (“Chapter 7 loans”) as collateral-
dependent nonaccrual TDRs, regardless of their delinquency status. At December 31, 2018, Chapter 7 residential real estate loans included approximately 13% of residential
mortgages and approximately 9% of home equity that were 30 days or more past due.
(b)At December 31, 2018 and 2017, $4.1 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively, of loans modified subsequent to repurchase from Ginnie Mae in accordance with the standards of the
appropriate government agency (i.e., FHA, VA, RHS) are not included in the table above. When such loans perform subsequent to modification in accordance with Ginnie Mae
guidelines, they are generally sold back into Ginnie Mae loan pools. Modified loans that do not re-perform become subject to foreclosure.
(c)Predominantly all residential real estate impaired loans, excluding PCI loans, are in the U.S.
(d)Represents the contractual amount of principal owed at December 31, 2018 and 2017. The unpaid principal balance differs from the impaired loan balances due to various factors
including charge-offs, net deferred loan fees or costs, and unamortized discounts or premiums on purchased loans.
(e)As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, nonaccrual loans included $2.0 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, of TDRs for which the borrowers were less than 90 days past due. For
additional information about loans modified in a TDR that are on nonaccrual status, refer to the Loan accounting framework on pages 219-221 of this Note.
226  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
The following table presents average impaired loans and the related interest income reported by the Firm.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)Average impaired loans  Interest income on
impaired loans (a)  Interest income on impaired
loans on a cash basis (a)
2018 2017 2016  2018 2017 2016  2018 2017 2016
Residential mortgage $ 5,082 $ 5,797 $ 6,376  $ 257 $ 287 $ 305 $ 75 $ 75 $ 77
Home equity 2,078 2,189 2,311 131 127 125 84 80 80
Total r esidential r eal estate – excluding PCI $ 7,160 $ 7,986 $ 8,687  $ 388 $ 414 $ 430 $ 159 $ 155 $ 157
(a)Generally, interest income on loans modified in TDRs is recognized on a cash basis until the borrower has made a minimum of six payments under the new terms, unless the loan is
deemed to be collateral-dependent.
Loan modifications
Modifications of residential real estate loans, excluding PCI loans, are
generally accounted for and reported as TDRs. There were no
additional commitments to lend to borrowers whose residential real
estate loans, excluding PCI loans, have been modified in TDRs. The following table presents new TDRs reported by the Firm.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Residential mortgage $ 401 $ 373 $ 254
Home equity 286 321 385
Total r esidential r eal estate – excluding
PCI $ 687 $ 694 $ 639
Nature and extent of modifications
The U.S. Treasury’s Making Home Affordable programs, as well as the Firm’s proprietary modification programs, generally provide various
concessions to financially troubled borrowers including, but not limited to, interest rate reductions, term or payment extensions and deferral of
principal and/or interest payments that would otherwise have been required under the terms of the original agreement.
The following table provides information about how residential real estate loans, excluding PCI loans, were modified under the Firm’s loss
mitigation programs described above during the periods presented. This table excludes Chapter 7 loans where the sole concession granted is the
discharge of debt.
Year ended December 31,Residential mortgage  Home equityTotal residential real estate
 – excluding PCI
2018 2017 2016  2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
Number of loans approved for a trial
modification 2,570 1,283 1,945  2,316 2,321 3,760 4,886 3,604 5,705
Number of loans permanently modified 2,907 2,628 3,338  4,946 5,624 4,824 7,853 8,252 8,162
Concession granted: (a)     
Interest rate reduction 40% 63% 76% 62% 59% 75% 54% 60% 76%
Term or payment extension 55 72 90 66 69 83 62 70 86
Principal and/or interest deferred 44 15 16 20 10 19 29 12 18
Principal for giveness 8 16 26 7 13 9 7 14 16
Other (b) 38 33 25 58 31 6 51 32 14
(a)Represents concessions granted in permanent modifications as a percentage of the number of loans permanently modified. The sum of the percentages exceeds 100% because
predominantly all of the modifications include more than one type of concession. Concessions offered on trial modifications are generally consistent with those granted on
permanent modifications.
(b)Includes variable interest rate to fixed interest rate modifications for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. Also includes forbearances that meet the definition of a
TDR for the year ended December 31, 2018. Forbearances suspend or reduce monthly payments for a specific period of time to address a temporary hardship.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  227
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Financial effects of modifications and redefaults
The following table provides information about the financial effects of the various concessions granted in modifications of residential real estate
loans, excluding PCI, under the loss mitigation programs described above and about redefaults of certain loans modified in TDRs for the periods
presented. The following table presents only the financial effects of permanent modifications and does not include temporary concessions offered
through trial modifications. This table also excludes Chapter 7 loans where the sole concession granted is the discharge of debt.
Year ended
December 31,
(in millions, except weighted-average data)Residential mortgage 
Home equity Total residential real estate – excluding PCI  
2018 2017 2016  2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
Weighted-average interest rate of loans with
interest rate reductions – before TDR 5.65% 5.15% 5.59% 5.39% 4.94% 4.99% 5.50% 5.06% 5.36%
Weighted-average interest rate of loans with
interest rate reductions – after TDR 3.80 2.99 2.93  3.46 2.64 2.34 3.60 2.83 2.70
Weighted-average remaining contractual term
(in years) of loans with term or payment
extensions – before TDR 24 24 24 19 21 18 21 23 22
Weighted-average remaining contractual term
(in years) of loans with term or payment
extensions – after TDR 38 38 38 39 39 38 38 38 38
Char ge-of fs recognized upon permanent
modification $ 1 $ 2$ 4 $ 1 $ 1$ 1 $ 2 $ 3$ 5
Principal deferred 21 12 30 9 10 23 30 22 53
Principal for given 10 20 44 7 13 7 17 33 51
Balance of loans that redefaulted within one
year of permanent modification (a) $ 97 $ 124 $ 98 $ 64 $ 56 $ 40 $ 161 $ 180 $ 138
(a)Represents loans permanently modified in TDRs that experienced a payment default in the periods presented, and for which the payment default occurred within one year of the
modification. The dollar amounts presented represent the balance of such loans at the end of the reporting period in which such loans defaulted. For residential real estate loans
modified in TDRs, payment default is deemed to occur when the loan becomes two contractual payments past due. In the event that a modified loan redefaults, it is probable that the
loan will ultimately be liquidated through foreclosure or another similar type of liquidation transaction. Redefaults of loans modified within the last 12 months may not be
representative of ultimate redefault levels.
At December 31, 2018, the weighted-average estimated remaining
lives of residential real estate loans, excluding PCI loans, permanently
modified in TDRs were 9 years for residential mortgage and 8 years
for home equity. The estimated remaining lives of these loans reflect
estimated prepayments, both voluntary and involuntary (i.e.,
foreclosures and other forced liquidations). Active and suspended foreclosure
At December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Firm had non-PCI residential real
estate loans, excluding those insured by U.S. government agencies,
with a carrying value of $653 million and $787 million, respectively,
that were not included in REO, but were in the process of active or
suspended foreclosure.
228  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Other consumer loans
The table below provides information for other consumer retained loan classes, including auto and business banking loans.
December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)AutoConsumer &
Business Banking  Total other consumer
2018 2017 2018 2017  2018 2017
Loan delinquency      
Current $ 62,984 $ 65,651 $ 26,249 $ 25,454  $ 89,233 $ 91,105
30–1 19 days past due 589 584 252 213  841 797
120 or more days past due — 7 111 122  111 129
Total r etained loans $ 63,573 $ 66,242 $ 26,612 $ 25,789  $ 90,185 $ 92,031
% of 30+ days past due to total retained loans 0.93% 0.89% 1.36% 1.30% 1.06% 1.01%
Nonaccrual loans (a) 128 141 245 283  373 424
Geographic r egion (b)    
California $ 8,330 $ 8,445 $ 5,520 $ 5,032  $ 13,850 $ 13,477
Texas 6,531 7,013 2,993 2,916  9,524 9,929
New York 3,863 4,023 4,381 4,195  8,244 8,218
Illinois 3,716 3,916 2,046 2,017  5,762 5,933
Florida 3,256 3,350 1,502 1,424  4,758 4,774
Arizona 2,084 2,221 1,491 1,383  3,575 3,604
Ohio 1,973 2,105 1,305 1,380  3,278 3,485
New Jersey 1,981 2,044 723 721  2,704 2,765
Michigan 1,357 1,418 1,329 1,357  2,686 2,775
Louisiana 1,587 1,656 860 849  2,447 2,505
All other 28,895 30,051 4,462 4,515  33,357 34,566
Total r etained loans $ 63,573 $ 66,242 $ 26,612 $ 25,789  $ 90,185 $ 92,031
Loans by risk ratings (c)      
Noncriticized $ 15,749 $ 15,604 $ 18,743 $ 17,938  $ 34,492 $ 33,542
Criticized performing 273 93 751 791  1,024 884
Criticized nonaccrual — 9 191 213  191 222
(a)There were no loans that were 90 or more days past due and still accruing interest at December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
(b)The geographic regions presented in the table are ordered based on the magnitude of the corresponding loan balances at December 31, 2018 .
(c)For risk-rated business banking and auto loans, the primary credit quality indicator is the risk rating of the loan, including whether the loans are considered to be criticized and/or
nonaccrual.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  229
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Other consumer impaired loans and loan modifications
The following table provides information about the Firm’s other consumer impaired loans, including risk-rated business banking and auto loans that
have been placed on nonaccrual status, and loans that have been modified in TDRs.
December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017
Impaired loans  
With an allowance $ 222$ 272
Without an allowance(a) 29 26
Total impaired loans(b)(c) $ 251$ 298
Allowance for loan losses related to impaired loans $ 63$ 73
Unpaid principal balance of impaired loans(d) 355 402
Impaired loans on nonaccrual status 229 268
(a)When discounted cash flows, collateral value or market price equals or exceeds the
recorded investment in the loan, the loan does not require an allowance. This
typically occurs when the impaired loans have been partially charged off and/or
there have been interest payments received and applied to the loan balance.
(b)Predominantly all other consumer impaired loans are in the U.S.
(c)Other consumer average impaired loans were $275 million, $427 million and $635
million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The
related interest income on impaired loans, including those on a cash basis, was not
material for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.
(d)Represents the contractual amount of principal owed at December 31, 2018 and
2017. The unpaid principal balance differs from the impaired loan balances due to
various factors, including charge-offs, interest payments received and applied to the
principal balance, net deferred loan fees or costs and unamortized discounts or
premiums on purchased loans. Loan modifications
Certain other consumer loan modifications are considered to be TDRs
as they provide various concessions to borrowers who are experiencing
financial difficulty. All of these TDRs are reported as impaired loans.
At December 31, 2018 and 2017, other consumer loans modified in
TDRs were $79 million and $102 million, respectively. The impact of
these modifications, as well as new TDRs, were not material to the
Firm for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.
Additional commitments to lend to borrowers whose loans have been
modified in TDRs as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 were not
material. TDRs on nonaccrual status were $57 million and $72 million
at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
230  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Purchased credit-impaired loans
PCI loans are initially recorded at fair value at acquisition. PCI loans
acquired in the same fiscal quarter may be aggregated into one or more
pools, provided that the loans have common risk characteristics. A pool
is then accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest
rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows. All of the Firm’s
residential real estate PCI loans were acquired in the same fiscal
quarter and aggregated into pools of loans with common risk
characteristics.
On a quarterly basis, the Firm estimates the total cash flows (both
principal and interest) expected to be collected over the remaining life
of each pool. These estimates incorporate assumptions regarding
default rates, loss severities, the amounts and timing of prepayments
and other factors that reflect then-current market conditions. Probable
decreases in expected cash flows (i.e., increased credit losses) trigger
the recognition of impairment, which is then measured as the present
value of the expected principal loss plus any related forgone interest
cash flows, discounted at the pool’s effective interest rate. Impairments
are recognized through the provision for credit losses and an increase
in the allowance for loan losses. Probable and significant increases in
expected cash flows (e.g., decreased credit losses, the net benefit of
modifications) would first reverse any previously recorded allowance
for loan losses with any remaining increases recognized prospectively
as a yield adjustment over the remaining estimated lives of the
underlying loans. The impacts of (i) prepayments, (ii) changes in
variable interest rates, and (iii) any other changes in the timing of
expected cash flows are generally recognized prospectively as
adjustments to interest income.
The Firm continues to modify certain PCI loans. The impact of these
modifications is incorporated into the Firm’s quarterly assessment of
whether a probable and significant change in expected cash flows has
occurred, and the loans continue to be accounted for and reported as
PCI loans. In evaluating the effect of modifications on expected cash
flows, the Firm incorporates the effect of any forgone interest and also
considers the potential for redefault. The Firm develops product-
specific probability of default estimates, which are used to compute
expected credit losses. In developing these probabilities of default, the
Firm considers the relationship between the credit quality
characteristics of the underlying loans and certain assumptions about
home prices and unemployment based upon industry-wide data. The
Firm also considers its own historical loss experience to-date based on
actual redefaulted modified PCI loans.
The excess of cash flows expected to be collected over the carrying
value of the underlying loans is referred to as the accretable yield. This
amount is not reported on the Firm’s Consolidated balance sheets but
is accreted into interest income at a level rate of return over the
remaining estimated lives of the underlying pools of loans. Since the timing and amounts of expected cash flows for the Firm’s
PCI consumer loan pools are reasonably estimable, interest is being
accreted and the loan pools are being reported as performing loans. No
interest would be accreted and the PCI loan pools would be reported as
nonaccrual loans if the timing and/or amounts of expected cash flows
on the loan pools were determined not to be reasonably estimable.
The liquidation of PCI loans, which may include sales of loans, receipt
of payment in full from the borrower, or foreclosure, results in removal
of the loans from the underlying PCI pool. When the amount of the
liquidation proceeds (e.g., cash, real estate), if any, is less than the
unpaid principal balance of the loan, the difference is first applied
against the PCI pool’s nonaccretable difference for principal losses
(i.e., the lifetime credit loss estimate established as a purchase
accounting adjustment at the acquisition date). When the nonaccretable
difference for a particular loan pool has been fully depleted, any excess
of the unpaid principal balance of the loan over the liquidation
proceeds is written off against the PCI pool’s allowance for loan
losses. Write-offs of PCI loans also include other adjustments,
primarily related to principal forgiveness modifications. Because the
Firm’s PCI loans are accounted for at a pool level, the Firm does not
recognize charge-offs of PCI loans when they reach specified stages of
delinquency (i.e., unlike non-PCI consumer loans, these loans are not
charged off based on FFIEC standards).
The PCI portfolio affects the Firm’s results of operations primarily
through: (i) contribution to net interest margin; (ii) expense related to
defaults and servicing resulting from the liquidation of the loans; and
(iii) any provision for loan losses. The Firm’s residential real estate
PCI loans were funded based on the interest rate characteristics of the
loans. For example, variable-rate loans were funded with variable-rate
liabilities and fixed-rate loans were funded with fixed-rate liabilities
with a similar maturity profile. A net spread will be earned on the
declining balance of the portfolio, which is estimated as of
December 31, 2018, to have a remaining weighted-average life of 7
years.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  231
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Residential real estate – PCI loans
The table below provides information about the Firm’s consumer, excluding credit card, PCI loans.
December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)Home equity  Prime mortgage  Subprime mortgage Option ARMs  Total PCI
2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017
Carrying value(a) $ 8,963 $ 10,799 $ 4,690 $ 6,479 $ 1,945 $ 2,609 $ 8,436 $ 10,689 $ 24,034 $ 30,576
Loan delinquency (based on unpaid principal balance)        
Current $ 8,624 $ 10,272 $ 4,226 $ 5,839 $ 2,033 $ 2,640 $ 7,592 $ 9,662 $ 22,475 $ 28,413
30–149 days past due 278 356 259 336 286 381 398 547 1,221 1,620
150 or more days past due 242 392 223 327 123 176 457 689 1,045 1,584
Total loans $ 9,144 $ 11,020 $ 4,708 $ 6,502 $ 2,442 $ 3,197 $ 8,447 $ 10,898 $ 24,741 $ 31,617
% of 30+ days past due to total loans 5.69% 6.79% 10.24% 10.20% 16.75% 17.42% 10.12% 11.34% 9.16% 10.13%
Current estimated LTV ratios (based on unpaid principal balance)(b)(c)        
Greater than 125% and refreshed FICO scores:        
Equal to or greater than 660 $ 17 $ 33 $ 1 $ 4 $ — $ 2 $ 3 $ 6 $ 21 $ 45
Less than 660 13 21 7 16 9 20 7 9 36 66
101% to 125% and refreshed FICO scores:        
Equal to or greater than 660 135 274 6 16 4 20 17 43 162 353
Less than 660 65 132 22 42 35 75 33 71 155 320
80% to 100% and refreshed FICO scores:        
Equal to or greater than 660 805 1,195 75 221 54 119 119 316 1,053 1,851
Less than 660 388 559 112 230 161 309 190 371 851 1,469
Lower than 80% and refreshed FICO scores:        
Equal to or greater than 660 5,548 6,134 2,689 3,551 739 895 5,111 6,113 14,087 16,693
Less than 660 1,908 2,095 1,568 2,103 1,327 1,608 2,622 3,499 7,425 9,305
No FICO/LTV available 265 577 228 319 113 149 345 470 951 1,515
Total unpaid principal balance $ 9,144 $ 11,020 $ 4,708 $ 6,502 $ 2,442 $ 3,197 $ 8,447 $ 10,898 $ 24,741 $ 31,617
Geographic region (based on unpaid principal balance)(d)        
California $ 5,420 $ 6,555 $ 2,578 $ 3,716 $ 593 $ 797 $ 4,798 $ 6,225 $ 13,389 $ 17,293
Florida 976 1,137 332 428 234 296 713 878 2,255 2,739
New York 525 607 365 457 268 330 502 628 1,660 2,022
Washington 419 532 98 135 44 61 177 238 738 966
Illinois 233 273 154 200 123 161 199 249 709 883
New Jersey 210 242 134 178 88 110 258 336 690 866
Massachusetts 65 79 113 149 73 98 240 307 491 633
Maryland 48 57 95 129 96 132 178 232 417 550
Virginia 54 66 91 123 37 51 211 280 393 520
Arizona 165 203 69 106 43 60 112 156 389 525
All other 1,029 1,269 679 881 843 1,101 1,059 1,369 3,610 4,620
Total unpaid principal balance $ 9,144 $ 11,020 $ 4,708 $ 6,502 $ 2,442 $ 3,197 $ 8,447 $ 10,898 $ 24,741 $ 31,617
(a)Carrying value includes the effect of fair value adjustments that were applied to the consumer PCI portfolio at the date of acquisition.
(b)Represents the aggregate unpaid principal balance of loans divided by the estimated current property value. Current property values are estimated, at a minimum, quarterly, based on
home valuation models using nationally recognized home price index valuation estimates incorporating actual data to the extent available and forecasted data where actual data is not
available. These property values do not represent actual appraised loan level collateral values; as such, the resulting ratios are necessarily imprecise and should be viewed as
estimates. Current estimated combined LTV for junior lien home equity loans considers all available lien positions, as well as unused lines, related to the property.
(c)Refreshed FICO scores represent each borrower’s most recent credit score, which is obtained by the Firm on at least a quarterly basis.
(d)The geographic regions presented in the table are ordered based on the magnitude of the corresponding loan balances at December 31, 2018 .
232  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Approximately 26% of the PCI home equity portfolio are senior lien loans; the remaining balance are junior lien HELOANs or HELOCs. The
following table provides delinquency statistics for PCI junior lien home equity loans and lines of credit based on the unpaid principal balance as of
December 31, 2018 and 2017.
December 31,
(in millions, except ratios) Total loans Total 30+ day delinquency rate
 2018 2017 2018 2017
HELOCs:(a)(b)  $ 6,531$ 7,926 4.00% 4.62%
HELOANs  280 360 3.57 5.28
Total  $ 6,811$ 8,286 3.98% 4.65%
(a)In general, these HELOCs are revolving loans for a 10-year period, after which time the HELOC converts to an interest-only loan with a balloon payment at the end of the loan’s
term. Substantially all HELOCs are beyond the revolving period.
(b)Includes loans modified into fixed rate amortizing loans.
The table below presents the accretable yield activity for the Firm’s PCI consumer loans for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016,
and represents the Firm’s estimate of gross interest income expected to be earned over the remaining life of the PCI loan portfolios. The table
excludes the cost to fund the PCI portfolios, and therefore the accretable yield does not represent net interest income expected to be earned on these
portfolios.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)Total PCI
2018 2017 2016
Beginning balance $ 11,159 $ 11,768 $ 13,491
Accretion into interest income (1,249) (1,396) (1,555)
Changes in interest rates on variable-rate loans (109) 503 260
Other changes in expected cash flows(a) (1,379) 284 (428)
Balance at December 31 $ 8,422 $ 11,159 $ 11,768
Accretable yield percentage 4.92% 4.53% 4.35%
(a)Other changes in expected cash flows may vary from period to period as the Firm continues to refine its cash flow model, for example cash flows expected to be collected due to the
impact of modifications and changes in prepayment assumptions.
Active and suspended foreclosure
At December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Firm had PCI residential real estate loans with an unpaid principal balance of $964 million and $1.3 billion,
respectively, that were not included in REO, but were in the process of active or suspended foreclosure.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  233
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Credit card loan portfolio
The credit card portfolio segment includes credit card loans originated
and purchased by the Firm. Delinquency rates are the primary credit
quality indicator for credit card loans as they provide an early warning
that borrowers may be experiencing difficulties (30 days past due);
information on those borrowers that have been delinquent for a longer
period of time (90 days past due) is also considered. In addition to
delinquency rates, the geographic distribution of the loans provides
insight as to the credit quality of the portfolio based on the regional
economy.
While the borrower’s credit score is another general indicator of credit
quality, the Firm does not view credit scores as a primary indicator of
credit quality because the borrower’s credit score tends to be a lagging
indicator. The distribution of such scores provides a general indicator
of credit quality trends within the portfolio; however, the score does
not capture all factors that would be predictive of future credit
performance. Refreshed FICO score information, which is obtained at
least quarterly, for a statistically significant random sample of the
credit card portfolio is indicated in the following table. FICO is
considered to be the industry benchmark for credit scores.
The Firm generally originates new card accounts to prime consumer
borrowers. However, certain cardholders’ FICO scores may decrease
over time, depending on the performance of the cardholder and
changes in credit score calculation. The table below provides information about the Firm’s credit card
loans.
As of or for the year ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios) 2018 2017
Net char ge-of fs $ 4,518 $ 4,123
% of net char ge-of fs to retained loans 3.10% 2.95%
Loan delinquency
Current and less than 30 days past due
and still accruing $ 153,746 $ 146,704
30–89 days past due and still accruing 1,426 1,305
90 or more days past due and still accruing 1,444 1,378
Total r etained cr edit card loans $ 156,616 $ 149,387
Loan delinquency ratios
% of 30+ days past due to total retained loans 1.83% 1.80%
% of 90+ days past due to total retained loans 0.92 0.92
Credit card loans by geographic r egion (a)
California $ 23,757 $ 22,245
Texas 15,085 14,200
New York 13,601 13,021
Florida 9,770 9,138
Illinois 8,938 8,585
New Jersey 6,739 6,506
Ohio 5,094 4,997
Pennsylvania 4,996 4,883
Colorado 4,309 4,006
Michigan 3,912 3,826
All other 60,415 57,980
Total r etained cr edit card loans $ 156,616 $ 149,387
Percentage of portfolio based on carrying value
with estimated r efreshed FICO scor es
Equal to or greater than 660 84.2% 84.0%
Less than 660 15.0 14.6
No FICO available 0.8 1.4
a)The geographic regions presented in the table are ordered based on the magnitude of the
corresponding loan balances at December 31, 2018 .
234  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Credit card impaired loans and loan modifications
The table below provides information about the Firm’s impaired credit
card loans. All of these loans are considered to be impaired as they
have been modified in TDRs.
December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017
Impaired credit card loans with an allowance(a)(b)(c)$ 1,319$ 1,215
Allowance for loan losses related to impaired credit
card loans 440 383
(a)The carrying value and the unpaid principal balance are the same for credit card impaired
loans.
(b)There were no impaired loans without an allowance.
(c)Predominantly all impaired credit card loans are in the U.S.
The following table presents average balances of impaired credit card
loans and interest income recognized on those loans.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Average impaired credit card loans $ 1,260$ 1,214$ 1,325
Interest income on
  impaired credit card loans 65 59 63
Loan modifications
The Firm may offer one of a number of loan modification programs to
credit card borrowers who are experiencing financial difficulty. Most
of the credit card loans have been modified under long-term programs
for borrowers who are experiencing financial difficulties. These
modifications involve placing the customer on a fixed payment plan,
generally for 60 months, and typically include reducing the interest
rate on the credit card. Substantially all modifications are considered to
be TDRs. If the cardholder does not comply with the modified payment terms,
then the credit card loan continues to age and will ultimately be
charged-off in accordance with the Firm’s standard charge-off policy.
In most cases, the Firm does not reinstate the borrower’s line of credit.
New enrollments in these loan modification programs for the years
ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, were $866 million, $756
million and $636 million, respectively. For all periods disclosed, new
enrollments were less than 1% of total retained credit card loans.
Financial effects of modifications and redefaults
The following table provides information about the financial effects of
the concessions granted on credit card loans modified in TDRs and
redefaults for the periods presented.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except
weighted-average data) 2018 2017 2016
Weighted-average interest rate of
loans – before TDR 17.98% 16.58% 15.56%
Weighted-average interest rate of
loans – after TDR 5.16 4.88 4.76
Loans that redefaulted within one
year of modification(a)(b) $ 116 $ 93$ 74
(a)Represents loans modified in TDRs that experienced a payment default in the periods
presented, and for which the payment default occurred within one year  of the
modification. The amounts presented represent the balance of such loans as of the end of
the quarter in which they defaulted.
(b)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period
presentation.
For credit card loans modified in TDRs, payment default is deemed to
have occurred when the borrower misses two consecutive contractual
payments. A substantial portion of these loans are expected to be
charged-off in accordance with the Firm’s standard charge-off policy.
Based on historical experience, the estimated weighted-average default
rate for modified credit card loans was expected to be 33.38%, 31.54%
and 28.87% as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  235
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Wholesale loan portfolio
Wholesale loans include loans made to a variety of clients, ranging
from large corporate and institutional clients to high-net-worth
individuals.
The primary credit quality indicator for wholesale loans is the risk
rating assigned to each loan. Risk ratings are used to identify the credit
quality of loans and differentiate risk within the portfolio. Risk ratings
on loans consider the PD and the LGD. The PD is the likelihood that a
loan will default. The LGD is the estimated loss on the loan that would
be realized upon the default of the borrower and takes into
consideration collateral and structural support for each credit facility.
Management considers several factors to determine an appropriate risk
rating, including the obligor’s debt capacity and financial flexibility,
the level of the obligor’s earnings, the amount and sources for
repayment, the level and nature of contingencies, management
strength, and the industry and geography in which the obligor operates.
The Firm’s definition of criticized aligns with the banking regulatory
definition of criticized exposures, which consist of special mention,
substandard and doubtful categories. Risk ratings generally represent
ratings profiles similar to those defined by S&P and Moody’s.
Investment-grade ratings range from “AAA/Aaa” to “BBB-/Baa3.”
Noninvestment-grade ratings are classified as noncriticized (“BB+/Ba1
and B-/B3”) and criticized (“CCC+”/“Caa1 and below”), and the
criticized portion is further subdivided into performing and nonaccrual
loans, representing management’s assessment of the collectibility of
principal and interest. Criticized loans have a higher probability of
default than noncriticized loans. Risk ratings are reviewed on a regular and ongoing basis by Credit
Risk Management and are adjusted as necessary for updated
information affecting the obligor’s ability to fulfill its obligations.
As noted above, the risk rating of a loan considers the industry in
which the obligor conducts its operations. As part of the overall credit
risk management framework, the Firm focuses on the management and
diversification of its industry and client exposures, with particular
attention paid to industries with actual or potential credit concern.
Refer to Note 4 for further detail on industry concentrations.
236  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
The table below provides information by class of receivable for the retained loans in the Wholesale portfolio segment. For additional information on
industry concentrations, refer to Note 4.
As of or for the
year ended
December 31,
(in millions,
except ratios)Commercial
and industrial Real estate  Financial
institutions  Governments & Agencies Other (d)  Total
retained loans
2018 2017 2018 2017  2018 2017  2018 2017 2018 2017  2018 2017
Loans by risk
ratings        
Investment-grade $ 73,497 $ 68,071 $ 100,107 $ 98,467  $ 32,178 $ 26,791  $ 13,984 $ 15,140 $119,963 $103,212  $339,729 $311,681
Noninvestment-
  grade:        
Noncriticized 51,720 46,558 14,876 14,335  15,316 13,071  201 369 11,478 9,988  93,591 84,321
Criticized
performing 3,738 3,983 620 710  150 210  2 — 182 259  4,692 5,162
Criticized
nonaccrual 851 1,357 134 136  4 2 — — 161 239  1,150 1,734
Total
noninvestment-
grade 56,309 51,898 15,630 15,181  15,470 13,283  203 369 11,821 10,486  99,433 91,217
Total r etained
loans $129,806 $119,969 $ 115,737 $ 113,648  $ 47,648 $ 40,074  $ 14,187 $ 15,509 $131,784 $113,698  $439,162 $402,898
% of total
criticized
exposure to total
retained loans 3.54% 4.45% 0.65 % 0.74% 0.32% 0.53% 0.01% — 0.26% 0.44% 1.33% 1.71%
% of criticized
nonaccrual to
total retained
loans 0.66 1.13 0.12 0.12  0.01 — — — 0.12 0.21  0.26 0.43
Loans by
geographic
distribution (a)       
Total non-U.S. $ 29,572 $ 28,470 $ 2,967 $ 3,101  $ 18,524 $ 16,790  $ 3,150 $ 2,906 $ 48,433 $ 44,112 $102,646 $ 95,379
Total U.S. 100,234 91,499 112,770 110,547  29,124 23,284  11,037 12,603 83,351 69,586  336,516 307,519
Total r etained
loans $129,806 $119,969 $ 115,737 $ 113,648  $ 47,648 $ 40,074  $ 14,187 $ 15,509 $131,784 $113,698  $439,162 $402,898
Net char ge-
offs/(recoveries) $ 165 $ 117 $ (20)$ (4) $ — $ 6 $ — $ 5 $ 10 $ (5) $ 155 $ 119
% of net
charge-
offs/(recoveries)
to end-of-period
retained loans 0.13% 0.10% (0.02)% —% —% 0.01% —% 0.03% 0.01% — 0.04% 0.03%
Loan
delinquency (b)       
Current and less
than 30 days
past due and still
accruing $128,678 $118,288 $ 115,533 $ 113,258  $ 47,622 $ 40,042  $ 14,165 $ 15,493 $130,918 $112,559  $436,916 $399,640
30–89 days past
due and still
accruing 109 216 67 242  12 15 18 12 702 898  908 1,383
90 or more days
past due and still
accruing (c) 168 108 3 12 10 15 4 4 3 2 188 141
Criticized
nonaccrual 851 1,357 134 136  4 2 — — 161 239  1,150 1,734
Total r etained
loans $129,806 $119,969 $ 115,737 $ 113,648  $ 47,648 $ 40,074  $ 14,187 $ 15,509 $131,784 $113,698  $439,162 $402,898
(a)The U.S. and non-U.S. distribution is determined based predominantly on the domicile of the borrower.
(b)The credit quality of wholesale loans is assessed primarily through ongoing review and monitoring of an obligor’s ability to meet contractual obligations rather than relying on the
past due status, which is generally a lagging indicator of credit quality.
(c)Represents loans that are considered well-collateralized and therefore still accruing interest.
(d)Other includes individuals and individual entities (predominantly consists of Wealth Management clients within AWM and includes exposure to personal investment companies and
personal and testamentary trusts), SPEs and Private education and civic organizations. For more information on SPEs, refer to Note 14.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  237
Notes to consolidated financial statements
The following table presents additional information on the real estate class of loans within the Wholesale portfolio for the periods indicated.
Exposure consists primarily of secured commercial loans, of which multifamily is the largest segment. Multifamily lending finances acquisition,
leasing and construction of apartment buildings, and includes exposure to real estate investment trusts (“REITs”). Other commercial lending largely
includes financing for acquisition, leasing and construction, largely for office, retail and industrial real estate, and includes exposure to REITs.
Included in real estate loans is $10.5 billion and $10.8 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, of construction and development
exposure consisting of loans originally purposed for construction and development, general purpose loans for builders, as well as loans for land
subdivision and pre-development.
December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)Multifamily  Other Commercial Total real estate loans
2018 2017  2018 2017 2018 2017
Real estate retained loans $ 79,184 $ 77,597 $ 36,553 $ 36,051 $ 115,737 $ 113,648
Criticized exposure 388 491 366 355 754 846
% of total criticized exposure to total real estate retained loans 0.49% 0.63% 1.00% 0.98% 0.65% 0.74%
Criticized nonaccrual $ 57 $ 44 $ 77 $ 92 $ 134 $ 136
% of criticized nonaccrual loans to total real estate retained loans 0.07% 0.06% 0.21% 0.26% 0.12% 0.12%
Wholesale impaired retained loans and loan modifications
Wholesale impaired retained loans consist of loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status and/or that have been modified in a TDR. All
impaired loans are evaluated for an asset-specific allowance as described in Note 13.
The table below sets forth information about the Firm’s wholesale impaired retained loans.
December 31,
(in millions)Commercial
and industrial  Real estate  Financial
institutionsGovernments &
 Agencies  OtherTotal
retained loans
2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017
Impaired loans             
With an allowance $ 807$1,170 $ 107$ 78 $ 4$ 93 $ — $ — $ 152$ 168 $1,070 $1,509
Without an allowance(a) 140 228 27 60 — — — — 13 70 180 358
Total impaired loans $ 947$1,398 $ 134$ 138 $ 4$ 93 $ — $ — $ 165$ 238 $1,250(c) $1,867(c) 
Allowance for loan losses related to
impaired loans $ 252$ 404 $ 25$ 11 $ 1$ 4 $ — $ — $ 19$ 42 $ 297 $ 461
Unpaid principal balance of impaired
loans(b) 1,043 1,604 203 201 4 94 — — 473 255 1,723 2,154
(a)When the discounted cash flows, collateral value or market price equals or exceeds the recorded investment in the loan, the loan does not require an allowance. This typically occurs
when the impaired loans have been partially charged-off and/or there have been interest payments received and applied to the loan balance.
(b)Represents the contractual amount of principal owed at December 31, 2018 and 2017. The unpaid principal balance differs from the impaired loan balances due to various factors,
including charge-offs; interest payments received and applied to the carrying value; net deferred loan fees or costs; and unamortized discount or premiums on purchased loans.
(c)Based upon the domicile of the borrower, largely consists of loans in the U.S.
The following table presents the Firm’s average impaired retained
loans for the years ended 2018, 2017 and 2016.
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017(b) 2016
Commercial and industrial $ 1,027$ 1,256$ 1,480
Real estate 133 165 217
Financial institutions 57 48 13
Governments & Agencies — — —
Other 199 241 213
Total(a) $ 1,416$ 1,710$ 1,923
(a)The related interest income on accruing impaired loans and interest income
recognized on a cash basis were not material for the years ended December 31,
2018, 2017 and 2016.
(b)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period
presentation. Certain loan modifications are considered to be TDRs as they provide
various concessions to borrowers who are experiencing financial
difficulty. All TDRs are reported as impaired loans in the tables above.
TDRs were $576 million and $614 million as of December 31, 2018
and 2017, respectively. The impact of these modifications, as well as
new TDRs, were not material to the Firm for the years ended
December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.
238  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Note 13 – Allowance for  credit losses
JPMorgan Chase’s allowance for loan losses represents management’s
estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the Firm’s retained loan
portfolio, which consists of the two consumer portfolio segments
(primarily scored) and the wholesale portfolio segment (risk-rated).
The allowance for loan losses includes a formula-based component, an
asset-specific component, and a component related to PCI loans, as
described below. Management also estimates an allowance for
wholesale and certain consumer lending-related commitments using
methodologies similar to those used to estimate the allowance on the
underlying loans.
The Firm’s policies used to determine its allowance for credit losses
are described in the following paragraphs.
Determining the appropriateness of the allowance is complex and
requires judgment by management about the effect of matters that are
inherently uncertain. Subsequent evaluations of the loan portfolio, in
light of the factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in
the allowances for loan losses and lending-related commitments in
future periods. At least quarterly, the allowance for credit losses is
reviewed by the CRO, the CFO and the Controller of the Firm. As of
December 31, 2018, JPMorgan Chase deemed the allowance for credit
losses to be appropriate and sufficient to absorb probable credit losses
inherent in the portfolio.
Formula-based component
The formula-based component is based on a statistical calculation to
provide for incurred credit losses in all consumer loans and performing
risk-rated loans. All loans restructured in TDRs as well as any
impaired risk-rated loans have an allowance assessed as part of the
asset-specific component, while PCI loans have an allowance assessed
as part of the PCI component. Refer to Note 12 for more information
on TDRs, Impaired loans and PCI loans.
Formula-based component - Consumer loans and certain lending-
related commitments
The formula-based allowance for credit losses for the consumer
portfolio segments is calculated by applying statistical credit loss
factors (estimated PD and loss severities) to the recorded investment
balances or loan-equivalent amounts of pools of loan exposures with
similar risk characteristics over a loss emergence period to arrive at an
estimate of incurred credit losses. Estimated loss emergence periods
may vary by product and may change over time; management applies
judgment in estimating loss emergence periods, using available credit
information and trends. In addition, management applies judgment to
the statistical loss estimates for each loan portfolio category, using
delinquency trends and other risk characteristics to estimate the total
incurred credit losses in the portfolio. Management uses additional
statistical methods and considers actual portfolio performance,
including actual losses recognized on defaulted loans and collateral
valuation trends, to review the appropriateness of the primary
statistical loss estimate. The economic impact of potential modifications of residential real estate loans is not included in
the statistical calculation because of the uncertainty regarding the type
and results of such modifications.
The statistical calculation is then adjusted to take into consideration
model imprecision, external factors and current economic events that
have occurred but that are not yet reflected in the factors used to derive
the statistical calculation; these adjustments are accomplished in part
by analyzing the historical loss experience for each major product
segment. However, it is difficult to predict whether historical loss
experience is indicative of future loss levels. Management applies
judgment in making this adjustment, taking into account uncertainties
associated with current macroeconomic and political conditions,
quality of underwriting standards, borrower behavior, and other
relevant internal and external factors affecting the credit quality of the
portfolio. In certain instances, the interrelationships between these
factors create further uncertainties. The application of different inputs
into the statistical calculation, and the assumptions used by
management to adjust the statistical calculation, are subject to
management judgment, and emphasizing one input or assumption over
another, or considering other inputs or assumptions, could affect the
estimate of the allowance for credit losses for the consumer credit
portfolio.
Overall, the allowance for credit losses for consumer portfolios is
sensitive to changes in the economic environment (e.g., unemployment
rates), delinquency rates, the realizable value of collateral (e.g.,
housing prices), FICO scores, borrower behavior and other risk factors.
While all of these factors are important determinants of overall
allowance levels, changes in the various factors may not occur at the
same time or at the same rate, or changes may be directionally
inconsistent such that improvement in one factor may offset
deterioration in another. In addition, changes in these factors would not
necessarily be consistent across all geographies or product types.
Finally, it is difficult to predict the extent to which changes in these
factors would ultimately affect the frequency of losses, the severity of
losses or both.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  239
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Formula-based component - Wholesale loans and lending-related
commitments
The Firm’s methodology for determining the allowance for loan losses
and the allowance for lending-related commitments involves the early
identification of credits that are deteriorating. The formula-based
component of the allowance for wholesale loans and lending-related
commitments is calculated by applying statistical credit loss factors
(estimated PD and LGD) to the recorded investment balances or loan-
equivalent over a loss emergence period to arrive at an estimate of
incurred credit losses in the portfolio. Estimated loss emergence
periods may vary by the funded versus unfunded status of the
instrument and may change over time.
The Firm assesses the credit quality of a borrower or counterparty and
assigns a risk rating. Risk ratings are assigned at origination or
acquisition, and if necessary, adjusted for changes in credit quality
over the life of the exposure. In assessing the risk rating of a particular
loan or lending-related commitment, among the factors considered are
the obligor’s debt capacity and financial flexibility, the level of the
obligor’s earnings, the amount and sources for repayment, the level
and nature of contingencies, management strength, and the industry
and geography in which the obligor operates. These factors are based
on an evaluation of historical and current information and involve
subjective assessment and interpretation. Determining risk ratings
involves significant judgment; emphasizing one factor over another or
considering additional factors could affect the risk rating assigned by
the Firm.
A PD estimate is determined based on the Firm’s history of defaults
over more than one credit cycle.
LGD estimate is a judgment-based estimate assigned to each loan or
lending-related commitment. The estimate represents the amount of
economic loss if the obligor were to default. The type of obligor,
quality of collateral, and the seniority of the Firm’s lending exposure in
the obligor’s capital structure affect LGD.
The Firm applies judgment in estimating PD, LGD, loss emergence
period and loan-equivalent used in calculating the allowance for credit
losses. Estimates of PD, LGD, loss emergence period and loan-
equivalent used are subject to periodic refinement based on any
changes to underlying external or Firm-specific historical data.
Changes to the time period used for PD and LGD estimates could also
affect the allowance for credit losses. The use of different inputs,
estimates or methodologies could change the amount of the allowance
for credit losses determined appropriate by the Firm.
In addition to the statistical credit loss estimates applied to the
wholesale portfolio, management applies its judgment to adjust the
statistical estimates for wholesale loans and lending-related
commitments, taking into consideration model imprecision, external
factors and economic events that have occurred but are not yet
reflected in the loss factors. Historical experience of both LGD and PD
are considered when estimating these adjustments. Factors related to
concentrated and deteriorating industries also are incorporated where
relevant. These estimates are based on management’s view of
uncertainties that relate to current macroeconomic conditions, quality
of underwriting standards and other relevant internal and external
factors affecting the credit quality of the current portfolio.
Asset-specific component
The asset-specific component of the allowance relates to loans
considered to be impaired, which includes loans that have been
modified in TDRs as well as risk-rated loans that have been placed on
nonaccrual status. To determine the asset-specific component of the
allowance, larger risk-rated loans (primarily loans in the wholesale
portfolio segment) are evaluated individually, while smaller loans
(both risk-rated and scored) are evaluated as pools using historical loss
experience for the respective class of assets.
The Firm generally measures the asset-specific allowance as the
difference between the recorded investment in the loan and the present
value of the cash flows expected to be collected, discounted at the
loan’s original effective interest rate. Subsequent changes in
impairment are reported as an adjustment to the allowance for loan
losses. In certain cases, the asset-specific allowance is determined
using an observable market price, and the allowance is measured as the
difference between the recorded investment in the loan and the loan’s
fair value. Collateral-dependent loans are charged down to the fair
value of collateral less costs to sell. For any of these impaired loans,
the amount of the asset-specific allowance required to be recorded, if
any, is dependent upon the recorded investment in the loan (including
prior charge-offs), and either the expected cash flows or fair value of
collateral. Refer to Note 12 for more information about charge-offs and
collateral-dependent loans.
The asset-specific component of the allowance for impaired loans that
have been modified in TDRs (including forgone interest, principal
forgiveness, as well as other concessions) incorporates the effect of the
modification on the loan’s expected cash flows, which considers the
potential for redefault. For residential real estate loans modified in
TDRs, the Firm develops product-specific probability of default
estimates, which are applied at a loan level to compute expected
losses. In developing these probabilities of default, the Firm considers
the relationship between the credit quality characteristics of the
underlying loans and certain assumptions about home prices and
unemployment, based upon industry-wide data. The Firm also
considers its own historical loss experience to-date based on actual
redefaulted modified loans. For credit card loans modified in TDRs,
expected losses incorporate projected redefaults based on the Firm’s
historical experience by type of modification program. For wholesale
loans modified in TDRs, expected losses incorporate management’s
expectation of the borrower’s ability to repay under the modified
terms.
240  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Estimating the timing and amounts of future cash flows is highly
judgmental as these cash flow projections rely upon estimates such as
loss severities, asset valuations, default rates (including redefault rates
on modified loans), the amounts and timing of interest or principal
payments (including any expected prepayments) or other factors that
are reflective of current and expected market conditions. These
estimates are, in turn, dependent on factors such as the duration of
current overall economic conditions, industry-, portfolio-, or borrower-
specific factors, the expected outcome of insolvency proceedings as
well as, in certain circumstances, other economic factors, including the
level of future home prices. All of these estimates and assumptions
require significant management judgment and certain assumptions are
highly subjective. PCI loans
In connection with the acquisition of certain PCI loans, which are
accounted for as described in Note 12, the allowance for loan losses
for the PCI portfolio is based on quarterly estimates of the amount of
principal and interest cash flows expected to be collected over the
estimated remaining lives of the loans.
These cash flow projections are based on estimates regarding default
rates (including redefault rates on modified loans), loss severities, the
amounts and timing of prepayments and other factors that are
reflective of current and expected future market conditions. These
estimates are dependent on assumptions regarding the level of future
home prices, and the duration of current overall economic conditions,
among other factors. These estimates and assumptions require
significant management judgment and certain assumptions are highly
subjective.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  241
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Allowance for credit losses and related information
The table below summarizes information about the allowances for loan losses and lending-relating commitments, and includes a breakdown of loans
and lending-related commitments by impairment methodology.
(Table continued on next page)   
 2018
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)Consumer,
excluding
credit card Credit card Wholesale Total
Allowance for loan losses   
Beginning balance at January 1, $ 4,579 $ 4,884 $ 4,141 $ 13,604
Gross charge-offs 1,025 5,011 313 6,349
Gross recoveries (842) (493) (158) (1,493)
Net charge-offs 183 4,518 155 4,856
Write-offs of PCI loans(a) 187 — — 187
Provision for loan losses (63) 4,818 130 4,885
Other — — (1) (1)
Ending balance at December 31, $ 4,146 $ 5,184 $ 4,115 $ 13,445
Allowance for loan losses by impairment methodology   
Asset-specific(b) $ 196 $ 440(c) $ 297 $ 933
Formula-based 2,162 4,744 3,818 10,724
PCI 1,788 — — 1,788
Total allowance for loan losses $ 4,146 $ 5,184 $ 4,115 $ 13,445
Loans by impairment methodology   
Asset-specific $ 6,828 $ 1,319 $ 1,250 $ 9,397
Formula-based 342,775 155,297 437,909 935,981
PCI 24,034 — 3 24,037
Total retained loans $ 373,637 $ 156,616 $ 439,162 $ 969,415
Impaired collateral-dependent loans   
Net charge-offs $ 24 $ — $ 21 $ 45
Loans measured at fair value of collateral less cost to sell 2,080 — 202 2,282
Allowance for lending-related commitments   
Beginning balance at January 1, $ 33 $ — $ 1,035 $ 1,068
Provision for lending-related commitments — — (14) (14)
Other — — 1 1
Ending balance at December 31, $ 33 $ — $ 1,022 $ 1,055
Allowance for lending-related commitments by impairment methodology   
Asset-specific $ — $ — $ 99 $ 99
Formula-based 33 — 923 956
Total allowance for lending-related commitments $ 33 $ — $ 1,022 $ 1,055
Lending-related commitments by impairment methodology   
Asset-specific $ — $ — $ 469 $ 469
Formula-based 46,066 605,379 387,344 1,038,789
Total lending-related commitments $ 46,066 $ 605,379 $ 387,813 $ 1,039,258
(a)Write-offs of PCI loans are recorded against the allowance for loan losses when actual losses for a pool exceed estimated losses that were recorded as purchase accounting adjustments at the time of
acquisition. A write-off of a PCI loan is recognized when the underlying loan is removed from a pool.
(b)Includes risk-rated loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status and loans that have been modified in a TDR.
(c)The asset-specific credit card allowance for loan losses is related to loans that have been modified in a TDR; such allowance is calculated based on the loans’ original contractual interest rates and does not
consider any incremental penalty rates.
242  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
(table continued from previous page)        
2017 2016  
Consumer,
excluding
credit card Credit card Wholesale TotalConsumer,
excluding
credit card Credit card Wholesale Total  
         
$ 5,198 $ 4,034 $ 4,544 $ 13,776 $ 5,806 $ 3,434 $ 4,315 $ 13,555 
1,779 4,521 212 6,512 1,500 3,799 398 5,697 
(634) (398) (93) (1,125) (591) (357) (57) (1,005) 
1,145 4,123 119 5,387 909 3,442 341 4,692 
86 — — 86 156 — — 156 
613 4,973 (286) 5,300 467 4,042 571 5,080 
(1) — 2 1 (10) — (1) (11) 
$ 4,579 $ 4,884 $ 4,141 $ 13,604 $ 5,198 $ 4,034 $ 4,544 $ 13,776 
         
$ 246 $ 383(c) $ 461 $ 1,090 $ 308 $ 358(c) $ 342 $ 1,008 
2,108 4,501 3,680 10,289 2,579 3,676 4,202 10,457 
2,225 — — 2,225 2,311 — — 2,311 
$ 4,579 $ 4,884 $ 4,141 $ 13,604 $ 5,198 $ 4,034 $ 4,544 $ 13,776 
         
$ 8,036 $ 1,215 $ 1,867 $ 11,118 $ 8,940 $ 1,240 $ 2,017 $ 12,197 
333,941 148,172 401,028 883,141 319,787 140,471 381,770 842,028 
30,576 — 3 30,579 35,679 — 3 35,682 
$ 372,553 $ 149,387 $ 402,898 $ 924,838 $ 364,406 $ 141,711 $ 383,790 $ 889,907 
         
$ 64 $ — $ 31 $ 95 $ 98 $ — $ 7 $ 105 
2,133 — 233 2,366 2,391 — 300 2,691 
         
$ 26 $ — $ 1,052 $ 1,078 $ 14 $ — $ 772 $ 786 
7 — (17) (10) — — 281 281 
— — — — 12 — (1) 11 
$ 33 $ — $ 1,035 $ 1,068 $ 26 $ — $ 1,052 $ 1,078 
         
$ — $ — $ 187 $ 187 $ — $ — $ 169 $ 169 
33 — 848 881 26 — 883 909 
$ 33 $ — $ 1,035 $ 1,068 $ 26 $ — $ 1,052 $ 1,078 
         
$ — $ — $ 731 $ 731 $ — $ — $ 506 $ 506 
48,553 572,831 369,367 990,751 53,247 553,891 367,508 974,646 
$ 48,553 $ 572,831 $ 370,098 $ 991,482 $ 53,247 $ 553,891 $ 368,014 $ 975,152 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  243
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 14 – Variable inter est entities
For a further description of JPMorgan Chase’s accounting policies regarding consolidation of VIEs, refer to Note 1. Page 198
The following table summarizes the most significant types of Firm-sponsored VIEs by business segment. The Firm considers a “sponsored” VIE to
include any entity where: (1) JPMorgan Chase is the primary beneficiary of the structure; (2) the VIE is used by JPMorgan Chase to securitize Firm
assets; (3) the VIE issues financial instruments with the JPMorgan Chase name; or (4) the entity is a JPMorgan Chase–administered asset-backed
commercial paper conduit.
Line of Business Transaction Type Activity2018 Form 10-K
page references
CCBCredit card securitization trusts Securitization of originated credit card receivables 244-245
Mortgage securitization trustsServicing and securitization of both originated and purchased
residential mortgages245-247
CIBMortgage and other securitization trusts Securitization of both originated and purchased residential and
commercial mortgages, and other consumer loans245-247
Multi-seller conduits Assist clients in accessing the financial markets in a cost-
efficient manner and structures transactions to meet investor
needs247
Municipal bond vehicles Financing of municipal bond investments 247-248
The Firm’s other business segments are also involved with VIEs (both third-party and Firm-sponsored), but to a lesser extent, as follows:
•Asset & Wealth Management: AWM sponsors and manages certain funds that are deemed VIEs. As asset manager of the funds, AWM earns a fee
based on assets managed; the fee varies with each fund’s investment objective and is competitively priced. For fund entities that qualify as VIEs,
AWM’s interests are, in certain cases, considered to be significant variable interests that result in consolidation of the financial results of these
entities.
•Commercial Banking: CB provides financing and lending-related services to a wide spectrum of clients, including certain third-party-sponsored
entities that may meet the definition of a VIE. CB does not control the activities of these entities and does not consolidate these entities. CB’s
maximum loss exposure, regardless of whether the entity is a VIE, is generally limited to loans and lending-related commitments which are
reported and disclosed in the same manner as any other third-party transaction.
•Corporate: Corporate is involved with entities that may meet the definition of VIEs; however these entities are generally subject to specialized
investment company accounting, which does not require the consolidation of investments, including VIEs. In addition, Treasury and CIO invest
in securities generally issued by third parties which may meet the definition of VIEs (e.g., issuers of asset-backed securities). In general, the
Firm does not have the power to direct the significant activities of these entities and therefore does not consolidate these entities. Refer to Note
10 for further information on the Firm’s investment securities portfolio.
In addition, CIB also invests in and provides financing and other services to VIEs sponsored by third parties. Refer to page 249 of this Note for
more information on the VIEs sponsored by third parties.
Significant Firm-sponsored variable interest entities
Credit card securitizations
CCB’s Card business securitizes originated credit card loans, primarily
through the Chase Issuance Trust (the “Trust”). The Firm’s continuing
involvement in credit card securitizations includes servicing the
receivables, retaining an undivided seller’s interest in the receivables,
retaining certain senior and subordinated securities and maintaining
escrow accounts.
The Firm is considered to be the primary beneficiary of these Firm-
sponsored credit card securitization trusts based on the Firm’s ability to
direct the activities of these VIEs through its servicing responsibilities
and other duties, including making decisions as to the receivables that
are transferred into those trusts and as to any related modifications and
workouts. Additionally, the nature and extent of the Firm’s other
continuing involvement with the trusts, as indicated above, obligates
the Firm to absorb losses and gives the Firm the right to receive certain benefits from
these VIEs that could potentially be significant.
The underlying securitized credit card receivables and other assets of
the securitization trusts are available only for payment of the beneficial
interests issued by the securitization trusts; they are not available to
pay the Firm’s other obligations or the claims of the Firm’s creditors.
The agreements with the credit card securitization trusts require the
Firm to maintain a minimum undivided interest in the credit card trusts
(generally 5%). As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Firm held
undivided interests in Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts
of $15.1 billion and $15.8 billion, respectively. The Firm maintained
an average undivided interest in principal receivables owned by those
trusts of approximately 37% and 26% for the years ended
December 31, 2018 and 2017. The Firm did
244  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
not retain any senior securities and retained $3.0 billion and $4.5
billion of subordinated securities in certain of its credit card
securitization trusts as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Firm’s undivided interests in the credit card trusts and securities
retained are eliminated in consolidation. Firm-sponsored mortgage and other securitization trusts
The Firm securitizes (or has securitized) originated and purchased
residential mortgages, commercial mortgages and other consumer
loans primarily in its CCB and CIB businesses. Depending on the
particular transaction, as well as the respective business involved, the
Firm may act as the servicer of the loans and/or retain certain
beneficial interests in the securitization trusts.
The following table presents the total unpaid principal amount of assets held in Firm-sponsored private-label securitization entities, including those
in which the Firm has continuing involvement, and those that are consolidated by the Firm. Continuing involvement includes servicing the loans,
holding senior interests or subordinated interests (including amounts required to be held pursuant to credit risk retention rules), recourse or
guarantee arrangements, and derivative contracts. In certain instances, the Firm’s only continuing involvement is servicing the loans. Refer to
Securitization activity on page 250 of this Note for further information regarding the Firm’s cash flows associated with and interests retained in
nonconsolidated VIEs, and pages 250-251 of this Note for information on the Firm’s loan sales to U.S. government agencies.
 Principal amount outstandingJPMorgan Chase interest in securitized assets in nonconsolidated
VIEs(c)(d)(e)
December 31, 2018 (in millions)Total assets held
by securitization
VIEsAssets
held in
consolidated
securitization
VIEsAssets held in
nonconsolidated
securitization VIEs
with continuing
involvement Trading assets Investment
securitiesOther financial
assetsTotal interests
held by
JPMorgan
Chase
Securitization-related(a)       
Residential mortgage:       
Prime/Alt-A and option ARMs $ 63,350$ 3,237$ 50,679 $ 623$ 647$ — $ 1,270
Subprime 16,729 32 15,434 53 — — 53
Commercial and other(b) 102,961 — 79,387 783 801 210 1,794
Total $ 183,040$ 3,269$ 145,500 $ 1,459$ 1,448$ 210$ 3,117
 Principal amount outstandingJPMorgan Chase interest in securitized assets in nonconsolidated
VIEs(c)(d)(e)
December 31, 2017(in millions)Total assets held
by securitization
VIEsAssets
held in
consolidated
securitization
VIEsAssets held in
nonconsolidated
securitization VIEs
with continuing
involvement Trading assets Investment
securitiesOther financial
assetsTotal interests
held by
JPMorgan
Chase
Securitization-related(a)       
Residential mortgage:       
Prime/Alt-A and option ARMs $ 68,874$ 3,615$ 52,280 $ 410$ 943$ — $ 1,353
Subprime 18,984 7 17,612 93 — — 93
Commercial and other(b) 94,905 63 63,411 745 1,133 157 2,035
Total $ 182,763$ 3,685$ 133,303 $ 1,248$ 2,076$ 157$ 3,481
(a)Excludes U.S. government agency securitizations and re-securitizations, which are not Firm-sponsored. Refer to pages 250-251 of this Note for information on the Firm’s loan sales
to U.S. government agencies.
(b)Consists of securities backed by commercial loans (predominantly real estate) and non-mortgage-related consumer receivables purchased from third parties.
(c)Excludes the following: retained servicing (refer to Note 15 for a discussion of MSRs); securities retained from loan sales to U.S. government agencies; interest rate and foreign
exchange derivatives primarily used to manage interest rate and foreign exchange risks of securitization entities (refer to Note 5 for further information on derivatives); senior and
subordinated securities of $87 million and $28 million, respectively, at December 31, 2018, and $88 million and $48 million, respectively, at December 31, 2017, which the Firm
purchased in connection with CIB’s secondary market-making activities.
(d)Includes interests held in re-securitization transactions.
(e)As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, 60% and 61%, respectively, of the Firm’s retained securitization interests, which are predominantly carried at fair value and include amounts
required to be held pursuant to credit risk retention rules, were risk-rated “A” or better, on an S&P-equivalent basis. The retained interests in prime residential mortgages consisted of
$1.3 billion of investment-grade for both periods, and $16 million and $48 million of noninvestment-grade at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The retained interests in
commercial and other securitizations trusts consisted of $1.2 billion and $1.6 billion of investment-grade and $623 million and $412 million of noninvestment-grade retained
interests at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.    
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  245
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Residential mortgage
The Firm securitizes residential mortgage loans originated by CCB, as
well as residential mortgage loans purchased from third parties by
either CCB or CIB. CCB generally retains servicing for all residential
mortgage loans it originated or purchased, and for certain mortgage
loans purchased by CIB. For securitizations of loans serviced by CCB,
the Firm has the power to direct the significant activities of the VIE
because it is responsible for decisions related to loan modifications and
workouts. CCB may also retain an interest upon securitization.
In addition, CIB engages in underwriting and trading activities
involving securities issued by Firm-sponsored securitization trusts. As
a result, CIB at times retains senior and/or subordinated interests
(including residual interests and amounts required to be held pursuant
to credit risk retention rules) in residential mortgage securitizations at
the time of securitization, and/or reacquires positions in the secondary
market in the normal course of business. In certain instances, as a
result of the positions retained or reacquired by CIB or held by CCB,
when considered together with the servicing arrangements entered into
by CCB, the Firm is deemed to be the primary beneficiary of certain
securitization trusts. Refer to the table on page 248 of this Note for
more information on consolidated residential mortgage securitizations.
The Firm does not consolidate a residential mortgage securitization
(Firm-sponsored or third-party-sponsored) when it is not the servicer
(and therefore does not have the power to direct the most significant
activities of the trust) or does not hold a beneficial interest in the trust
that could potentially be significant to the trust. Refer to the table on
page 248 of this Note for more information on the consolidated
residential mortgage securitizations, and the table on the previous page
of this Note for further information on interests held in
nonconsolidated residential mortgage securitizations.
Commercial mortgages and other consumer securitizations
CIB originates and securitizes commercial mortgage loans, and
engages in underwriting and trading activities involving the securities
issued by securitization trusts. CIB may retain unsold senior and/or
subordinated interests (including amounts required to be held pursuant
to credit risk retention rules) in commercial mortgage securitizations at
the time of securitization but, generally, the Firm does not service
commercial loan securitizations. For commercial mortgage
securitizations the power to direct the significant activities of the VIE
generally is held by the servicer or investors in a specified class of
securities (“controlling class”). The Firm generally does not retain an
interest in the controlling class in its sponsored commercial mortgage
securitization transactions. Refer to the table on page 248 of this Note
for more information on the consolidated commercial mortgage
securitizations, and the table on the previous page of this Note for
further information on interests held in nonconsolidated
securitizations. Re-securitizations
The Firm engages in certain re-securitization transactions in which
debt securities are transferred to a VIE in exchange for new beneficial
interests. These transfers occur in connection with both agency
(Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”), Federal
Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie Mac”) and Government
National Mortgage Association (“Ginnie Mae”)) and nonagency
(private-label) sponsored VIEs, which may be backed by either
residential or commercial mortgages. The Firm’s consolidation
analysis is largely dependent on the Firm’s role and interest in the re-
securitization trusts.
The following table presents the principal amount of securities
transferred to re-securitization VIEs.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2018 2017  2016
Transfers of securities to VIEs  
Firm-sponsored private-label $ — $ — $ 647
Agency 15,532 12,617 11,241
Most re-securitizations with which the Firm is involved are client-
driven transactions in which a specific client or group of clients is
seeking a specific return or risk profile. For these transactions, the
Firm has concluded that the decision-making power of the entity is
shared between the Firm and its clients, considering the joint effort and
decisions in establishing the re-securitization trust and its assets, as
well as the significant economic interest the client holds in the re-
securitization trust; therefore the Firm does not consolidate the re-
securitization VIE.
In more limited circumstances, the Firm creates a nonagency re-
securitization trust independently and not in conjunction with specific
clients. In these circumstances, the Firm is deemed to have the
unilateral ability to direct the most significant activities of the re-
securitization trust because of the decisions made during the
establishment and design of the trust; therefore, the Firm consolidates
the re-securitization VIE if the Firm holds an interest that could
potentially be significant.
Additionally, the Firm may invest in beneficial interests of third-party-
sponsored re-securitizations and generally purchases these interests in
the secondary market. In these circumstances, the Firm does not have
the unilateral ability to direct the most significant activities of the re-
securitization trust, either because it was not involved in the initial
design of the trust, or the Firm is involved with an independent third-
party sponsor and demonstrates shared power over the creation of the
trust; therefore, the Firm does not consolidate the re-securitization
VIE.
246  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
The following table presents information on nonconsolidated re-
securitization VIEs.
 Nonconsolidated
re-securitization VIEs
December 31,
(in millions) 2018 2017
Firm-sponsored private-label  
Assets held in VIEs with continuing
involvement(a) $ 118$ 783
Interest in VIEs 10 29
Agency  
Interest in VIEs 3,058 2,250
(a)Represents the principal amount and includes the notional amount of interest-only
securities.
As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Firm did not consolidate any
agency re-securitization VIEs or any Firm-sponsored private-label re-
securitization VIEs.
Multi-seller conduits
Multi-seller conduit entities are separate bankruptcy remote entities
that provide secured financing, collateralized by pools of receivables
and other financial assets, to customers of the Firm. The conduits fund
their financing facilities through the issuance of highly rated
commercial paper. The primary source of repayment of the commercial
paper is the cash flows from the pools of assets. In most instances, the
assets are structured with deal-specific credit enhancements provided
to the conduits by the customers (i.e., sellers) or other third parties.
Deal-specific credit enhancements are generally structured to cover a
multiple of historical losses expected on the pool of assets, and are
typically in the form of overcollateralization provided by the seller.
The deal-specific credit enhancements mitigate the Firm’s potential
losses on its agreements with the conduits.
To ensure timely repayment of the commercial paper, and to provide
the conduits with funding to provide financing to customers in the
event that the conduits do not obtain funding in the commercial paper
market, each asset pool financed by the conduits has a minimum 100%
deal-specific liquidity facility associated with it provided by JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. also provides the
multi-seller conduit vehicles with uncommitted program-wide liquidity
facilities and program-wide credit enhancement in the form of standby
letters of credit. The amount of program-wide credit enhancement
required is based upon commercial paper issuance and approximates
10% of the outstanding balance of commercial paper.
The Firm consolidates its Firm-administered multi-seller conduits, as
the Firm has both the power to direct the significant activities of the
conduits and a potentially significant economic interest in the conduits.
As administrative agent and in its role in structuring transactions, the
Firm makes decisions regarding asset types and credit quality, and
manages the commercial paper funding needs of the conduits. The
Firm’s interests that could potentially be significant to the VIEs
include the fees received as administrative agent and liquidity and program-wide credit enhancement provider, as well as the potential
exposure created by the liquidity and credit enhancement facilities
provided to the conduits. Refer to page 248 of this Note for further
information on consolidated VIE assets and liabilities.
In the normal course of business, JPMorgan Chase makes markets in
and invests in commercial paper issued by the Firm-administered
multi-seller conduits. The Firm held $20.1 billion and $20.4 billion of
the commercial paper issued by the Firm-administered multi-seller
conduits at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, which have
been eliminated in consolidation. The Firm’s investments reflect the
Firm’s funding needs and capacity and were not driven by market
illiquidity. Other than the amounts required to be held pursuant to
credit risk retention rules, the Firm is not obligated under any
agreement to purchase the commercial paper issued by the Firm-
administered multi-seller conduits.
Deal-specific liquidity facilities, program-wide liquidity and credit
enhancement provided by the Firm have been eliminated in
consolidation. The Firm or the Firm-administered multi-seller conduits
provide lending-related commitments to certain clients of the Firm-
administered multi-seller conduits. The unfunded commitments were
$8.0 billion and $8.8 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017,
respectively, and are reported as off-balance sheet lending-related
commitments. For more information on off-balance sheet lending-
related commitments, refer to Note 27.
Municipal bond vehicles
Municipal bond vehicles or tender option bond (“TOB”) trusts allow
institutions to finance their municipal bond investments at short-term
rates. In a typical TOB transaction, the trust purchases highly rated
municipal bond(s) of a single issuer and funds the purchase by issuing
two types of securities: (1) puttable floating-rate certificates
(“floaters”) and (2) inverse floating-rate residual interests
(“residuals”). The floaters are typically purchased by money market
funds or other short-term investors and may be tendered, with requisite
notice, to the TOB trust. The residuals are retained by the investor
seeking to finance its municipal bond investment. TOB transactions
where the residual is held by a third-party investor are typically known
as customer TOB trusts, and non-customer TOB trusts are transactions
where the Residual is retained by the Firm. Customer TOB trusts are
sponsored by a third party; refer to page 249 on this Note for further
information. The Firm serves as sponsor for all non-customer TOB
transactions. The Firm may provide various services to a TOB trust,
including remarketing agent, liquidity or tender option provider, and/or
sponsor.
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC may serve as a remarketing agent on the
floaters for TOB trusts. The remarketing agent is responsible for
establishing the periodic variable rate on the floaters, conducting the
initial placement and remarketing tendered floaters. The remarketing
agent may,
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  247
Notes to consolidated financial statements
but is not obligated to, make markets in floaters. Floaters held by the
Firm were not material during 2018 and 2017.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. or J.P. Morgan Securities LLC often
serves as the sole liquidity or tender option provider for the TOB
trusts. The liquidity provider’s obligation to perform is conditional and
is limited by certain events (“Termination Events”), which include
bankruptcy or failure to pay by the municipal bond issuer or credit
enhancement provider, an event of taxability on the municipal bonds or
the immediate downgrade of the municipal bond to below investment
grade. In addition, the liquidity provider’s exposure is typically further
limited by the high credit quality of the underlying municipal bonds,
the excess collateralization in the vehicle, or, in certain transactions,
the reimbursement agreements with the Residual holders. Holders of the floaters may “put,” or tender, their floaters to the TOB
trust. If the remarketing agent cannot successfully remarket the floaters
to another investor, the liquidity provider either provides a loan to the
TOB trust for the TOB trust’s purchase of the floaters, or it directly
purchases the tendered floaters.
TOB trusts are considered to be variable interest entities. The Firm
consolidates Non-Customer TOB trusts because as the Residual holder,
the Firm has the right to make decisions that significantly impact the
economic performance of the municipal bond vehicle, and it has the
right to receive benefits and bear losses that could potentially be
significant to the municipal bond vehicle.
Cons
VIE
assets
and
liabil
The following table presents information on assets and liabilities related to VIEs consolidated by the Firm as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.
 Assets Liabilities
December 31, 2018 (in millions) Trading assets Loans Other(b)  Total
assets(c)Beneficial
interests in
VIE assets(d) Other(e)Total
liabilities
VIE program type     
Firm-sponsored credit card trusts $ — $ 31,760$ 491$ 32,251 $ 13,404$ 12$ 13,416
Firm-administered multi-seller conduits — 24,411 300 24,711 4,842 33 4,875
Municipal bond vehicles 1,779 — 4 1,783 1,685 3 1,688
Mortgage securitization entities(a) 53 3,285 40 3,378 308 161 469
Other 134 — 178 312 2 103 105
Total $ 1,966$ 59,456$ 1,013$ 62,435 $ 20,241$ 312$ 20,553
     
 Assets Liabilities
December 31, 2017 (in millions) Trading assets Loans Other(b)  Total
assets(c)Beneficial
interests in
VIE assets(d) Other(e)Total
liabilities
VIE program type     
Firm-sponsored credit card trusts $ — $ 41,923$ 652$ 42,575 $ 21,278$ 16$ 21,294
Firm-administered multi-seller conduits — 23,411 48 23,459 3,045 28 3,073
Municipal bond vehicles 1,278 — 3 1,281 1,265 2 1,267
Mortgage securitization entities(a) 66 3,661 55 3,782 359 199 558
Other 105 — 1,916 2,021 134 104 238
Total $ 1,449$ 68,995$ 2,674$ 73,118 $ 26,081$ 349$ 26,430
(a)Includes residential and commercial mortgage securitizations.
(b)Includes assets classified as cash and other assets on the Consolidated balance sheets.
(c)The assets of the consolidated VIEs included in the program types above are used to settle the liabilities of those entities. The assets and liabilities include third-party assets and
liabilities of consolidated VIEs and exclude intercompany balances that eliminate in consolidation.
(d)The interest-bearing beneficial interest liabilities issued by consolidated VIEs are classified in the line item on the Consolidated balance sheets titled, “Beneficial interests issued by
consolidated variable interest entities.” The holders of these beneficial interests generally do not have recourse to the general credit of JPMorgan Chase. Included in beneficial
interests in VIE assets are long-term beneficial interests of $13.7 billion and $21.8 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. For additional information on interest-
bearing long-term beneficial interests, refer to Note 19.
(e)Includes liabilities classified as accounts payable and other liabilities on the Consolidated balance sheets.
248  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
VIEs sponsored by third parties
The Firm enters into transactions with VIEs structured by other parties.
These include, for example, acting as a derivative counterparty,
liquidity provider, investor, underwriter, placement agent, remarketing
agent, trustee or custodian. These transactions are conducted at arm’s-
length, and individual credit decisions are based on the analysis of the
specific VIE, taking into consideration the quality of the underlying
assets. Where the Firm does not have the power to direct the activities
of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE’s economic
performance, or a variable interest that could potentially be significant,
the Firm generally does not consolidate the VIE, but it records and
reports these positions on its Consolidated balance sheets in the same
manner it would record and report positions in respect of any other
third-party transaction.
Tax credit vehicles
The Firm holds investments in unconsolidated tax credit vehicles,
which are limited partnerships and similar entities that construct, own
and operate affordable housing, alternative energy, and other projects.
These entities are primarily considered VIEs. A third party is typically
the general partner or managing member and has control over the
significant activities of the tax credit vehicles, and accordingly the
Firm does not consolidate tax credit vehicles. The Firm generally
invests in these partnerships as a limited partner and earns a return
primarily through the receipt of tax credits allocated to the projects.
The maximum loss exposure, represented by equity investments and
funding commitments, was $16.5 billion and $13.4 billion, of which
$4.0 billion and $3.2 billion was unfunded at December 31, 2018 and
2017, respectively. In order to reduce the risk of loss, the Firm assesses
each project and withholds varying amounts of its capital investment
until the project qualifies for tax credits. Refer to Note 24 for further
information on affordable housing tax credits. For more information on
off-balance sheet lending-related commitments, refer to Note 27.
Customer municipal bond vehicles (TOB trusts)
The Firm may provide various services to Customer TOB trusts,
including remarketing agent, liquidity or tender option provider. In
certain Customer TOB transactions, the Firm, as liquidity provider, has
entered into a reimbursement agreement with the Residual holder. In
those transactions, upon the termination of the vehicle, the Firm has
recourse to the third-party Residual holders for any shortfall. The Firm
does not have any intent to protect Residual holders from potential
losses on any of the underlying municipal bonds. The Firm does not
consolidate Customer TOB trusts, since the Firm does not have the
power to make decisions that significantly impact the economic
performance of the municipal bond vehicle. The Firm’s maximum
exposure as a liquidity provider to Customer TOB trusts at
December 31, 2018 and 2017, was $4.8 billion and $5.3 billion,
respectively. The fair value of assets held by such VIEs at
December 31, 2018 and 2017 was $7.7 billion and $9.2 billion,
respectively. For more information on off-balance sheet lending-related commitments, refer to
Note 27.
Loan securitizations
The Firm has securitized and sold a variety of loans, including
residential mortgage, credit card, and commercial mortgage. The
purposes of these securitization transactions were to satisfy investor
demand and to generate liquidity for the Firm.
For loan securitizations in which the Firm is not required to
consolidate the trust, the Firm records the transfer of the loan
receivable to the trust as a sale when all of the following accounting
criteria for a sale are met: (1) the transferred financial assets are legally
isolated from the Firm’s creditors; (2) the transferee or beneficial
interest holder can pledge or exchange the transferred financial assets;
and (3) the Firm does not maintain effective control over the
transferred financial assets (e.g., the Firm cannot repurchase the
transferred assets before their maturity and it does not have the ability
to unilaterally cause the holder to return the transferred assets).
For loan securitizations accounted for as a sale, the Firm recognizes a
gain or loss based on the difference between the value of proceeds
received (including cash, beneficial interests, or servicing assets
received) and the carrying value of the assets sold. Gains and losses on
securitizations are reported in noninterest revenue.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  249
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Securitization activity
The following table provides information related to the Firm’s securitization activities for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016,
related to assets held in Firm-sponsored securitization entities that were not consolidated by the Firm, and where sale accounting was achieved at
the time of the securitization.
 2018 2017 2016
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)Residential
mortgage(f)Commercial and
other(g)Residential
mortgage(f)Commercial and
other(g)Residential
mortgage(f)Commercial and
other(g)
Principal securitized $ 6,431$ 10,159 $ 5,532$ 10,252 $ 1,817$ 8,964
All cash flows during the period:(a)      
Proceeds received from loan sales as financial instruments(b)(c)$ 6,449$ 10,218 $ 5,661$ 10,340 $ 1,831$ 9,094
Servicing fees collected(d) 319 2 338 3 477 3
Purchases of previously transferred financial assets (or the
underlying collateral)(e) — — 1 — 37 —
Cash flows received on interests 411 301 463 918 482 1,441
(a)Excludes re-securitization transactions.
(b)Predominantly includes Level 2 assets.
(c)The carrying value of the loans accounted for at fair value approximated the proceeds received upon loan sale.
(d)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
(e)Includes cash paid by the Firm to reacquire assets from nonconsolidated entities – for example, loan repurchases due to representation and warranties and servicer “clean-up” calls.
(f)Includes prime mortgages only . Excludes certain loan securitization transactions entered into with Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
(g)Includes commercial mortgage and other consumer loans.
Key assumptions used to value retained interests originated during the
year are shown in the table below.
Year ended December 31,  2018 2017 2016
Residential mortgage retained interest:
Weighted-average life (in years)  7.6 4.8 4.5
Weighted-average discount rate  3.6% 2.9% 4.2%
Commercial mortgage retained interest:  
Weighted-average life (in years)  5.3 7.1 6.2
Weighted-average discount rate  4.0% 4.4% 5.8% Loans and excess MSRs sold to U.S. government-sponsored
enterprises, loans in securitization transactions pursuant to Ginnie
Mae guidelines, and other third-party-sponsored securitization
entities
In addition to the amounts reported in the securitization activity tables
above, the Firm, in the normal course of business, sells originated and
purchased mortgage loans and certain originated excess MSRs on a
nonrecourse basis, predominantly to U.S. government-sponsored
enterprises (“U.S. GSEs”). These loans and excess MSRs are sold
primarily for the purpose of securitization by the U.S. GSEs, who
provide certain guarantee provisions (e.g., credit enhancement of the
loans). The Firm also sells loans into securitization transactions
pursuant to Ginnie Mae guidelines; these loans are typically insured or
guaranteed by another U.S. government agency. The Firm does not
consolidate the securitization vehicles underlying these transactions as
it is not the primary beneficiary. For a limited number of loan sales, the
Firm is obligated to share a portion of the credit risk associated with
the sold loans with the purchaser. Refer to Note 27 for additional
information about the Firm’s loan sales and securitization-related
indemnifications. Refer to Note 15 for additional information about the
impact of the Firm’s sale of certain excess MSRs.
250  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
The following table summarizes the activities related to loans sold to
the U.S. GSEs, loans in securitization transactions pursuant to Ginnie
Mae guidelines, and other third-party-sponsored securitization entities.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Carrying value of loans sold $ 44,609$ 64,542$ 52,869
Proceeds received from loan sales
as cash $ 9$ 117$ 592
Proceeds from loans sales as
securities(a) 43,671 63,542 51,852
Total proceeds received from loan
sales(b) $ 43,680$ 63,659$ 52,444
Gains/(losses) on loan sales(c)(d) $ (93)$ 163$ 222
(a)Predominantly includes securities from U.S. GSEs and Ginnie Mae that are
generally sold shortly after receipt.
(b)Excludes the value of MSRs retained upon the sale of loans.
(c)Gains/(losses) on loan sales include the value of MSRs.
(d)The carrying value of the loans accounted for at fair value approximated the
proceeds received upon loan sale.
Options to repurchase delinquent loans
In addition to the Firm’s obligation to repurchase certain loans due to
material breaches of representations and warranties as discussed in
Note 27, the Firm also has the option to repurchase delinquent loans
that it services for Ginnie Mae loan pools, as well as for other U.S.
government agencies under certain arrangements. The Firm typically
elects to repurchase delinquent loans from Ginnie Mae loan pools as it
continues to service them and/or manage th e foreclosure process in accordance with the applicable requirements,
and such loans continue to be insured or guaranteed. When the Firm’s
repurchase option becomes exercisable, such loans must be reported on
the Consolidated balance sheets as a loan with a corresponding
liability. For additional information, refer to Note 12.
The following table presents loans the Firm repurchased or had an
option to repurchase, real estate owned, and foreclosed government-
guaranteed residential mortgage loans recognized on the Firm’s
Consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.
Substantially all of these loans and real estate are insured or
guaranteed by U.S. government agencies.
December 31,
(in millions) 2018 2017
Loans repurchased or option to repurchase(a) $ 7,021$ 8,629
Real estate owned 75 95
Foreclosed government-guaranteed residential mortgage
loans(b) 361 527
(a)Predominantly all of these amounts relate to loans that have been repurchased from
Ginnie Mae loan pools.
(b)Relates to voluntary repurchases of loans, which are included in accrued interest and
accounts receivable.
Loan delinquencies and liquidation losses
The table below includes information about components of nonconsolidated securitized financial assets held in Firm-sponsored private-label
securitization entities, in which the Firm has continuing involvement, and delinquencies as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.
 Securitized assets  90 days past due  Net liquidation losses(a)
As of or for the year ended December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017  2018 2017  2018 2017
Securitized loans     
Residential mortgage:     
Prime/ Alt-A & option ARMs $ 50,679$ 52,280 $ 3,354$ 4,870 $ 610$ 790
Subprime 15,434 17,612 2,478 3,276 (169) 719
Commercial and other 79,387 63,411 225 957 280 114
Total loans securitized $145,500$133,303 $ 6,057$ 9,103 $ 721$ 1,623
(a)Includes liquidation gains as a result of private label mortgage settlement payments during the first quarter of 2018, which were reflected as asset recoveries by trustees.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  251
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 15 – Goodwill and Mortgage servicing rights
Goodwill
Goodwill is recorded upon completion of a business combination as
the difference between the purchase price and the fair value of the net
assets acquired. Subsequent to initial recognition, goodwill is not
amortized but is tested for impairment during the fourth quarter of
each fiscal year, or more often if events or circumstances, such as
adverse changes in the business climate, indicate there may be
impairment.
The goodwill associated with each business combination is allocated to
the related reporting units, which are determined based on how the
Firm’s businesses are managed and how they are reviewed by the
Firm’s Operating Committee. The following table presents goodwill
attributed to the business segments.
December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Consumer & Community Banking $ 30,984$ 31,013$ 30,797
Corporate & Investment Bank 6,770 6,776 6,772
Commercial Banking 2,860 2,860 2,861
Asset & Wealth Management 6,857 6,858 6,858
Total goodwill $ 47,471$ 47,507$ 47,288
The following table presents changes in the carrying amount of
goodwill.
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017  2016
Balance at beginning of period $ 47,507 $ 47,288 $ 47,325
Changes during the period from:   
Business combinations(a) — 199 —
Dispositions(b) — — (72)
Other(c) (36) 20 35
Balance at December 31, $ 47,471 $ 47,507 $ 47,288
(a)For 2017, represents CCB goodwill in connection with an acquisition.
(b)For 2016, represents AWM goodwill, which was disposed of as part of a sale.
(c)Includes foreign currency remeasurement and other adjustments. Goodwill impairment testing
The Firm’s goodwill was not impaired at December 31, 2018, 2017,
and 2016.
The goodwill impairment test is performed in two steps. In the first
step, the current fair value of each reporting unit is compared with its
carrying value. If the fair value is in excess of the carrying value, then
the reporting unit’s goodwill is considered not to be impaired. If the
fair value is less than the carrying value, then a second step is
performed. In the second step, the implied current fair value of the
reporting unit’s goodwill is determined by comparing the fair value of
the reporting unit (as determined in step one) to the fair value of the
net assets of the reporting unit, as if the reporting unit were being
acquired in a business combination. The resulting implied current fair
value of goodwill is then compared with the carrying value of the
reporting unit’s goodwill. If the carrying value of the goodwill exceeds
its implied current fair value, then an impairment charge is recognized
for the excess. If the carrying value of goodwill is less than its implied
current fair value, then no goodwill impairment is recognized.
The Firm uses the reporting units’ allocated capital plus goodwill and
other intangible assets capital as a proxy for the carrying values of
equity for the reporting units in the goodwill impairment testing.
Reporting unit equity is determined on a similar basis as the allocation
of capital to the Firm’s lines of business and takes into consideration
capital level of similarly-rated peers and applicable regulatory
requirements. Proposed line of business equity levels are incorporated
into the Firm’s annual budget process, which is reviewed by the Firm’s
Board of Directors. Allocated capital is further reviewed on a periodic
basis and updated as needed.
252  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
The primary method the Firm uses to estimate the fair value of its
reporting units is the income approach. This approach projects cash
flows for the forecast period and uses the perpetuity growth method to
calculate terminal values. These cash flows and terminal values are
then discounted using an appropriate discount rate. Projections of cash
flows are based on the reporting units’ earnings forecasts which are
reviewed with senior management of the Firm. The discount rate used
for each reporting unit represents an estimate of the cost of equity for
that reporting unit and is determined considering the Firm’s overall
estimated cost of equity (estimated using the Capital Asset Pricing
Model), as adjusted for the risk characteristics specific to each
reporting unit (for example, for higher levels of risk or uncertainty
associated with the business or management’s forecasts and
assumptions). To assess the reasonableness of the discount rates used
for each reporting unit management compares the discount rate to the
estimated cost of equity for publicly traded institutions with similar
businesses and risk characteristics. In addition, the weighted average
cost of equity (aggregating the various reporting units) is compared
with the Firms’ overall estimated cost of equity to ensure
reasonableness.
The valuations derived from the discounted cash flow analysis are then
compared with market-based trading and transaction multiples for
relevant competitors. Trading and transaction comparables are used as
general indicators to assess the general reasonableness of the estimated
fair values, although precise conclusions generally cannot be drawn
due to the differences that naturally exist between the Firm’s
businesses and competitor institutions. Management also takes into
consideration a comparison between the aggregate fair values of the
Firm’s reporting units and JPMorgan Chase’s market capitalization. In
evaluating this comparison, management considers several factors,
including (i) a control premium that would exist in a market
transaction, (ii) factors related to the level of execution risk that would
exist at the firmwide level that do not exist at the reporting unit level
and (iii) short-term market volatility and other factors that do not
directly affect the value of individual reporting units.
Declines in business performance, increases in credit losses, increases
in capital requirements, as well as deterioration in economic or market
conditions, adverse regulatory or legislative changes or increases in the
estimated market cost of equity, could cause the estimated fair values
of the Firm’s reporting units or their associated goodwill to decline in
the future, which could result in a material impairment charge to
earnings in a future period related to some portion of the associated
goodwill. Mortgage servicing rights
MSRs represent the fair value of expected future cash flows for
performing servicing activities for others. The fair value considers
estimated future servicing fees and ancillary revenue, offset by
estimated costs to service the loans, and generally declines over time
as net servicing cash flows are received, effectively amortizing the
MSR asset against contractual servicing and ancillary fee income.
MSRs are either purchased from third parties or recognized upon sale
or securitization of mortgage loans if servicing is retained.
As permitted by U.S. GAAP, the Firm has elected to account for its
MSRs at fair value. The Firm treats its MSRs as a single class of
servicing assets based on the availability of market inputs used to
measure the fair value of its MSR asset and its treatment of MSRs as
one aggregate pool for risk management purposes. The Firm estimates
the fair value of MSRs using an option-adjusted spread (“OAS”)
model, which projects MSR cash flows over multiple interest rate
scenarios in conjunction with the Firm’s prepayment model, and then
discounts these cash flows at risk-adjusted rates. The model considers
portfolio characteristics, contractually specified servicing fees,
prepayment assumptions, delinquency rates, costs to service, late
charges and other ancillary revenue, and other economic factors. The
Firm compares fair value estimates and assumptions to observable
market data where available, and also considers recent market activity
and actual portfolio experience.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  253
Notes to consolidated financial statements
The fair value of MSRs is sensitive to changes in interest rates,
including their effect on prepayment speeds. MSRs typically decrease
in value when interest rates decline because declining interest rates
tend to increase prepayments and therefore reduce the expected life of
the net servicing cash flows that comprise the MSR asset. Conversely,
securities (e.g., mortgage-backed securities), principal-only certificates
and certain derivatives (i.e., those for which the Firm receives fixed-rate interest payments)
increase in value when interest rates decline. JPMorgan Chase uses
combinations of derivatives and securities to manage the risk of
changes in the fair value of MSRs. The intent is to offset any interest-
rate related changes in the fair value of MSRs with changes in the fair
value of the related risk management instruments.
The following table summarizes MSR activity for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.
As of or for the year ended December 31, (in millions, except where otherwise noted) 2018 2017 2016 
Fair value at beginning of period $ 6,030 $ 6,096 $ 6,608 
MSR activity:    
Originations of MSRs 931 1,103 679 
Purchase of MSRs 315 — — 
Disposition of MSRs(a) (636) (140) (109) 
Net additions 610 963 570 
Changes due to collection/realization of expected cash flows (740) (797) (919) 
Changes in valuation due to inputs and assumptions:    
Changes due to market interest rates and other(b) 300 (202) (72) 
Changes in valuation due to other inputs and assumptions:    
Projected cash flows (e.g., cost to service) 15 (102) (35) 
Discount rates 24 (19) 7 
Prepayment model changes and other(c) (109) 91 (63) 
Total changes in valuation due to other inputs and assumptions (70) (30) (91) 
Total changes in valuation due to inputs and assumptions 230 (232) (163) 
Fair value at December 31, $ 6,130 $ 6,030 $ 6,096 
Change in unrealized gains/(losses) included in income related to MSRs held at December 31, $ 230 $ (232) $ (163) 
Contractual service fees, late fees and other ancillary fees included in income 1,778 1,886 2,124 
Third-party mortgage loans serviced at December 31, (in billions) 521.0 555.0 593.3 
Servicer advances, net of an allowance for uncollectible amounts, at December 31, (in billions)(d) 3.0 4.0 4.7 
(a)Includes excess MSRs transferred to agency-sponsored trusts in exchange for stripped mortgage backed securities (“SMBS”). In each transaction, a portion of the SMBS was
acquired by third parties at the transaction date; the Firm acquired the remaining balance of those SMBS as trading securities.
(b)Represents both the impact of changes in estimated future prepayments due to changes in market interest rates, and the difference between actual and expected prepayments.
(c)Represents changes in prepayments other than those attributable to changes in market interest rates.
(d)Represents amounts the Firm pays as the servicer (e.g., scheduled principal and interest, taxes and insurance), which will generally be reimbursed within a short period of time after
the advance from future cash flows from the trust or the underlying loans. The Firm’s credit risk associated with these servicer advances is minimal because reimbursement of the
advances is typically senior to all cash payments to investors. In addition, the Firm maintains the right to stop payment to investors if the collateral is insufficient to cover the
advance. However, certain of these servicer advances may not be recoverable if they were not made in accordance with applicable rules and agreements.
254  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
The following table presents the components of mortgage fees and
related income (including the impact of MSR risk management
activities) for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2018 2017 2016
CCB mortgage fees and related income    
Net production revenue $ 268 $ 636 $ 853
Net mortgage servicing revenue:    
Operating revenue:    
Loan servicing revenue 1,835 2,014 2,336
Changes in MSR asset fair value due
to collection/realization of expected
cash flows (740) (795) (916)
Total operating revenue 1,095 1,219 1,420
Risk management:    
Changes in MSR asset fair value
due to market interest rates and
other(a) 300 (202) (72)
Other changes in MSR asset fair value
due to other inputs and assumptions
in model(b) (70) (30) (91)
Change in derivative fair value and
other (341) (10) 380
Total risk management (111) (242) 217
Total net mortgage servicing
revenue 984 977 1,637
Total CCB mortgage fees and related
income 1,252 1,613 2,490
All other 2 3 1
Mortgage fees and related income $1,254 $ 1,616 $2,491
(a)Represents both the impact of changes in estimated future prepayments due to
changes in market interest rates, and the difference between actual and expected
prepayments.
(b)Represents the aggregate impact of changes in model inputs and assumptions such
as projected cash flows (e.g., cost to service), discount rates and changes in
prepayments other than those attributable to changes in market interest rates (e.g.,
changes in prepayments due to changes in home prices). The table below outlines the key economic assumptions used to
determine the fair value of the Firm’s MSRs at December 31, 2018 and
2017, and outlines the sensitivities of those fair values to immediate
adverse changes in those assumptions, as defined below.
December 31,
(in millions, except rates) 2018  2017
Weighted-average prepayment speed assumption
(“CPR”) 8.78% 9.35%
Impact on fair value of 10% adverse change $ (205) $ (221)
Impact on fair value of 20% adverse change (397) (427)
Weighted-average option adjusted spread 8.70% 9.04%
Impact on fair value of 100 basis points adverse
change $ (235) $ (250)
Impact on fair value of 200 basis points adverse
change (452) (481)
CPR: Constant prepayment rate.
Changes in fair value based on variations in assumptions generally
cannot be easily extrapolated, because the relationship of the change in
the assumptions to the change in fair value are often highly interrelated
and may not be linear. In this table, the effect that a change in a
particular assumption may have on the fair value is calculated without
changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in one factor may
result in changes in another, which would either magnify or counteract
the impact of the initial change.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  255
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 16 –  Premises and equipment
Premises and equipment, including leasehold improvements, are
carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization.
JPMorgan Chase computes depreciation using the straight-line method
over the estimated useful life of an asset. For leasehold improvements,
the Firm uses the straight-line method computed over the lesser of the
remaining term of the leased facility or the estimated useful life of the
leased asset.
JPMorgan Chase capitalizes certain costs associated with the
acquisition or development of internal-use software. Once the software
is ready for its intended use, these costs are amortized on a straight-
line basis over the software’s expected useful life and reviewed for
impairment on an ongoing basis.
Note 17 – Deposits
At December 31, 2018 and 2017, noninterest-bearing and interest-
bearing deposits were as follows.
December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 
U.S. offices   
Noninterest-bearing $ 369,505 $ 393,645 
Interest-bearing (included $19,691, and
$14,947 at fair value)(a) 831,085 793,618 
Total deposits in U.S. offices 1,200,590 1,187,263 
Non-U.S. offices   
Noninterest-bearing 19,092 15,576 
Interest-bearing (included $3,526 and $6,374 at
fair value)(a) 250,984 241,143 
Total deposits in non-U.S. offices 270,076 256,719 
Total deposits $ 1,470,666 $ 1,443,982 
(a)Includes structured notes classified as deposits for which the fair value option has
been elected. For further discussion, refer to Note 3.
At December 31, 2018 and 2017, time deposits in denominations of
$250,000 or more were as follows.
December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017
U.S. offices $ 25,119 $ 30,671
Non-U.S. offices 41,661 29,049
Total $ 66,780 $ 59,720
At December 31, 2018, the maturities of interest-bearing time deposits
were as follows.
December 31, 2018
(in millions)    
U.S.  Non-U.S. Total
2019 $ 31,757 $ 40,259$ 72,016
2020 6,309 229 6,538
2021 5,235 19 5,254
2022 2,884 173 3,057
2023 1,719 372 2,091
After 5 years 3,515 2,023 5,538
Total $ 51,419 $ 43,075$ 94,494 Note 18 – Accounts payable and other  liabilities
Accounts payable and other liabilities consist of brokerage payables,
which includes payables to customers, dealers and clearing
organizations, and payables from security purchases that did not settle;
accrued expenses, including income tax payables and credit card
rewards liability; and all other liabilities, including obligations to
return securities received as collateral and litigation reserves.
The following table details the components of accounts payable and
other liabilities.
December 31, (in millions)  2018 2017
Brokerage payables  $ 114,794 $ 102,727
Other payables and liabilities(a)  81,916 86,656
Total accounts payable and other liabilities $ 196,710 $ 189,383
(a)Includes credit card rewards liability of $5.8 billion and $4.9 billion at December 31,
2018 and 2017, respectively.
256  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Note 19 – Long-term debt
JPMorgan Chase issues long-term debt denominated in various currencies, predominantly U.S. dollars, with both fixed and variable interest rates.
Included in senior and subordinated debt below are various equity-linked or other indexed instruments, which the Firm has elected to measure at fair
value. Changes in fair value are recorded in principal transactions revenue in the Consolidated statements of income, except for unrealized
gains/(losses) due to DVA which are recorded in OCI. The following table is a summary of long-term debt carrying values (including unamortized
premiums and discounts, issuance costs, valuation adjustments and fair value adjustments, where applicable) by remaining contractual maturity as
of December 31, 2018.
By remaining maturity at
December 31,
(in millions, except rates)2018   2017
Under 1 year 1-5 years  After 5 years  Total   Total
Parent company        
Senior debt: Fixed rate $ 8,958 $ 55,362  $ 81,500  $ 145,820   $ 141,551
 Variable rate 4,037 14,025  4,916  22,978   26,461
 Interest rates(a) 0.17-6.30% 0.23-4.95%  0.45-6.40%  0.17-6.40%   0.16-7.25%
Subordinated debt: Fixed rate $ 146 $ 1,948  $ 12,214  $ 14,308   $ 14,646
 Variable rate — —  9  9   9
 Interest rates(a) 8.53% 3.38% 3.63-8.00%  3.38-8.53%   3.38-8.53%
 Subtotal$ 13,141 $ 71,335  $ 98,639  $ 183,115   $ 182,667
Subsidiaries        
Federal Home Loan Banks
advances: Fixed rate $ 12 $ 25  $ 118  $ 155   $ 167
 Variable rate 11,000 29,300  4,000  44,300   60,450
 Interest rates(a) 2.58-2.95% 2.36-2.96%  2.43-2.52%  2.36-2.96%   1.18-2.00%
Senior debt: Fixed rate $ 1,574 $ 6,454  $ 8,406  $ 16,434   $ 11,990
 Variable rate 6,667 22,277  6,657  35,601   26,218
 Interest rates(a) 1.65-7.50% 2.60-7.50%  1.00-7.50%  1.00-7.50%   0.22-7.50%
Subordinated debt: Fixed rate $ — $ —  $ 301  $ 301   $ 313
 Variable rate — —  —  —   —
 Interest rates(a) —% —% 8.25% 8.25%  8.25%
 Subtotal$ 19,253 $ 58,056  $ 19,482  $ 96,791   $ 99,138
Junior subordinated debt: Fixed rate $ — $ —  $ 659  $ 659   $ 690
 Variable rate — —  1,466  1,466   1,585
 Interest rates(a) —% —% 3.04-8.75%  3.04-8.75%   1.88-8.75%
 Subtotal$ — $ —  $ 2,125  $ 2,125   $ 2,275
Total long-term debt(b)(c)(d) $ 32,394 $ 129,391  $ 120,246  $ 282,031(f)
(g)  $ 284,080
Long-term beneficial interests:       
Fixed rate $ 4,634 $ 2,977  $ —  $ 7,611   $ 13,579
 Variable rate 2,324 3,471  308  6,103   8,192
 Interest rates 1.27-2.87% 0.00-3.01%  2.50-4.62%  0.00-4.62%   0.00-6.54%
Total long-term beneficial
interests(e) $ 6,958 $ 6,448  $ 308  $ 13,714   $ 21,771
(a)The interest rates shown are the range of contractual rates in effect at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, including non-U.S. dollar fixed- and variable-rate issuances, which excludes the effects of the
associated derivative instruments used in hedge accounting relationships, if applicable. The use of these derivative instruments modifies the Firm’s exposure to the contractual interest rates disclosed in the
table above. Including the effects of the hedge accounting derivatives, the range of modified rates in effect at December 31, 2018, for total long-term debt was (0.06)% to 8.88%, versus the contractual range
of 0.17% to 8.75% presented in the table above. The interest rate ranges shown exclude structured notes accounted for at fair value.
(b)Included long-term debt of $47.7 billion and $63.5 billion secured by assets totaling $207.0 billion and $208.4 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The amount of long-term debt secured by
assets does not include amounts related to hybrid instruments.
(c)Included $54.9 billion and $47.5 billion of long-term debt accounted for at fair value at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
(d)Included $11.2 billion and $10.3 billion of outstanding zero-coupon notes at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The aggregate principal amount of these notes at their respective maturities is $37.4
billion and $33.5 billion, respectively. The aggregate principal amount reflects the contractual principal payment at maturity, which may exceed the contractual principal payment at the Firm’s next call date,
if applicable.
(e)Included on the Consolidated balance sheets in beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs. Also included $28 million and $45 million accounted for at fair value at December 31, 2018 and 2017,
respectively. Excluded short-term commercial paper and other short-term beneficial interests of $6.5 billion and $4.3 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
(f)At December 31, 2018, long-term debt in the aggregate of $138.2 billion was redeemable at the option of JPMorgan Chase, in whole or in part, prior to maturity, based on the terms specified in the respective
instruments.
(g)The aggregate carrying values of debt that matures in each of the five years subsequent to 2018 is $32.4 billion in 2019, $46.7 billion in 2020, $40.0 billion in 2021, $16.3 billion in 2022 and $26.4 billion in
2023.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  257
Notes to consolidated financial statements
The weighted-average contractual interest rates for total long-term debt
excluding structured notes accounted for at fair value were 3.28% and
2.87% as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. In order to
modify exposure to interest rate and currency exchange rate
movements, JPMorgan Chase utilizes derivative instruments, primarily
interest rate and cross-currency interest rate swaps, in conjunction with
some of its debt issuances. The use of these instruments modifies the
Firm’s interest expense on the associated debt. The modified weighted-
average interest rates for total long-term debt, including the effects of
related derivative instruments, were 3.64% and 2.56% as of
December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. has guaranteed certain long-term debt of its
subsidiaries, including both long-term debt and structured notes. These
guarantees rank on parity with the Firm’s other unsecured and
unsubordinated indebtedness. The amount of such guaranteed long-
term debt and structured notes was $10.9 billion and $7.9 billion at
December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Firm’s unsecured debt does not contain requirements that would
call for an acceleration of payments, maturities or changes in the
structure of the existing debt, provide any limitations on future
borrowings or require additional collateral, based on unfavorable
changes in the Firm’s credit ratings, financial ratios, earnings or stock
price. Junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures
On September 10, 2018 the Firm’s last remaining issuer of outstanding
trust preferred securities (“issuer trust”) was liquidated, resulting in
$475 million of trust preferred securities and $15 million of trust
common securities originally issued by the issuer trust being cancelled.
The junior subordinated debentures previously held by the trust issuer
were distributed pro rata to the holders of the trust preferred and trust
common securities. The carrying value of the junior subordinated debt
was $659 million as of December 31, 2018.
258  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Note 20 – Preferr ed stock
At December 31, 2018 and 2017, JPMorgan Chase was authorized to
issue 200 million shares of preferred stock, in one or more series, with
a par value of $1 per share. In the event of a liquidation or dissolution of the Firm, JPMorgan
Chase’s preferred stock then outstanding takes precedence over the
Firm’s common stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets.
The following is a summary of JPMor gan Chase ’s non-cumulative preferred stock outstanding as of December 31, 2018  and 2017 .
 Shares at December 31,(a)Carrying value
 (in millions)
at December 31,
Issue dateContractual rate
in effect at
December 31,
2018Earliest
redemption
dateDate at
which
dividend rate
becomes
floatingFloating annual
rate of
three-month
LIBOR plus:Dividend
declared
per share(b)  2018 2017 2018 2017
Fixed-rate:    
Series P90,000 90,000 $ 900$ 900 2/5/2013 5.450% 3/1/2018 NA NA $136.25 
Series T92,500 92,500 925 925 1/30/2014 6.700 3/1/2019 NA NA 167.50 
Series W88,000 88,000 880 880 6/23/2014 6.300 9/1/2019 NA NA 157.50 
Series Y143,000 143,000 1,430 1,430 2/12/2015 6.125 3/1/2020 NA NA 153.13 
Series AA142,500 142,500 1,425 1,425 6/4/2015 6.100 9/1/2020 NA NA 152.50 
Series BB115,000 115,000 1,150 1,150 7/29/2015 6.150 9/1/2020 NA NA 153.75 
Series DD169,625 — 1,696 — 9/21/2018 5.750 12/1/2023 NA NA 111.81 (c) 
Fixed-to-
floating-rate:    
Series I
430,375 600,000 4,304 6,000 4/23/2008LIBOR +
3.47% 4/30/2018 4/30/2018 LIBOR + 3.47% $395.00 (d) 
   147.34 (d) 
   148.45 (d) 
   153.09 (d) 
Series Q150,000 150,000 1,500 1,500 4/23/2013 5.150 5/1/2023 5/1/2023 LIBOR + 3.25 257.50 
Series R150,000 150,000 1,500 1,500 7/29/2013 6.000 8/1/2023 8/1/2023 LIBOR + 3.30 300.00 
Series S200,000 200,000 2,000 2,000 1/22/2014 6.750 2/1/2024 2/1/2024 LIBOR + 3.78 337.50 
Series U100,000 100,000 1,000 1,000 3/10/2014 6.125 4/30/2024 4/30/2024 LIBOR + 3.33 306.25 
Series V250,000 250,000 2,500 2,500 6/9/2014 5.000 7/1/2019 7/1/2019 LIBOR + 3.32 250.00 
Series X160,000 160,000 1,600 1,600 9/23/2014 6.100 10/1/2024 10/1/2024 LIBOR + 3.33 305.00 
Series Z200,000 200,000 2,000 2,000 4/21/2015 5.300 5/1/2020 5/1/2020 LIBOR + 3.80 265.00 
Series CC125,750 125,750 1,258 1,258 10/20/2017 4.625 11/1/2022 11/1/2022 LIBOR + 2.58 231.25 (c) 
Total
preferred
stock 2,606,750 2,606,750 $26,068$26,068   
(a)Represented by depositary shares.
(b)Dividends on fixed-rate preferred stock are payable quarterly. Dividends on fixed-to-floating-rate preferred stock are payable semiannually while at a fixed rate, and payable quarterly after converting to a
floating rate.
(c)Dividend per share is prorated based on the number of days outstanding for the period.
(d)The dividend rate for Series I preferred stock became floating and payable quarterly starting on April 30, 2018; prior to which the dividend rate was fixed at 7.90% or $395.00 per share payable semi annually.
The Firm declared a dividend of $147.34, $148.45 and $153.09 per share on outstanding Series I preferred stock on June 15, 2018, September 14, 2018 and December 14, 2018, respectively.
Each series of preferred stock has a liquidation value and redemption
price per share of $10,000, plus accrued but unpaid dividends.
On January 24, 2019, the Firm issued $1.85 billion of 6.00% non-
cumulative preferred stock, Series EE, and on January 30, 2019, the
Firm announced that it will redeem all $925 million of its outstanding
6.70% non-cumulative preferred stock, Series T, on March 1, 2019. On
September 21, 2018, the Firm issued $1.7 billion of 5.75% non-
cumulative preferred stock, Series DD. On October 30, 2018, the Firm
redeemed $1.7 billion of its fixed-to-floating rate non-cumulative
perpetual preferred stock, Series I.
On October 20, 2017, the Firm issued $1.3 billion of fixed-to-floating
rate non-cumulative preferred stock, Series CC, with an initial dividend
rate of 4.625%. On December 1, 2017, the Firm redeemed all $1.3 billion of its outstanding 5.50% non-
cumulative preferred stock, Series O. Quarterly dividend per share for
Series O was $137.50 for the years ended December 31, 2017 and
2016.
Redemption rights
Each series of the Firm’s preferred stock may be redeemed on any
dividend payment date on or after the earliest redemption date for that
series. All outstanding preferred stock series except Series I may also
be redeemed following a “capital treatment event,” as described in the
terms of each series. Any redemption of the Firm’s preferred stock is
subject to non-objection from the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”).
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  259
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 21 – Common stock
At December 31, 2018 and 2017, JPMorgan Chase was authorized to
issue 9.0 billion shares of common stock with a par value of $1 per
share.
Common shares issued (newly issued or reissuance from treasury) by
JPMorgan Chase during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and
2016 were as follows.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Total issued – balance at January 1 4,104.9 4,104.9 4,104.9
Treasury – balance at January 1 (679.6) (543.7) (441.4)
Repurchase (181.5) (166.6) (140.4)
Reissuance:
Employee benefits and compensation
plans 21.7 24.5 26.0
Warrant exercise 9.4 5.4 11.1
Employee stock purchase plans 0.9 0.8 1.0
Total reissuance 32.0 30.7 38.1
Total treasury – balance at December
31 (829.1) (679.6) (543.7)
Outstanding at December 31 3,275.8 3,425.3 3,561.2
There were no warrants to purchase shares of common stock
(“Warrants”) outstanding at December 31, 2018, as any Warrants that
were not exercised on or before October 29, 2018, have expired. At
December 31, 2017, and 2016, respectively, the Firm had 15.0 million
and 24.9 million Warrants outstanding.
On June 28, 2018, in conjunction with the Federal Reserve’s release of
its 2018 CCAR results, the Firm’s Board of Directors authorized a
$20.7 billion common equity repurchase program. As of December 31,
2018, $10.4 billion of authorized repurchase capacity remained under
the program. This authorization includes shares repurchased to offset
issuances under the Firm’s share-based compensation plans. The following table sets forth the Firm’s repurchases of common
equity for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. There
were no Warrants repurchased during the years ended December 31,
2018, 2017 and 2016.
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 2018  2017  2016
Total number of shares of common stock
repurchased 181.5  166.6  140.4
Aggregate purchase price of common stock
repurchases $ 19,983  $ 15,410  $ 9,082
The Firm from time to time enters into written trading plans under
Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to facilitate
repurchases in accordance with the common equity repurchase
program. A Rule 10b5-1 repurchase plan allows the Firm to repurchase
its equity during periods when it would not otherwise be repurchasing
common equity — for example, during internal trading “blackout
periods.” All purchases under a Rule 10b5-1 plan must be made
according to a predefined plan established when the Firm is not aware
of material nonpublic information. For additional information
regarding repurchases of the Firm’s equity securities, refer to Part II,
Item 5: Market for registrant’s common equity, related stockholder
matters and issuer purchases of equity securities, on page 30.
As of December 31, 2018, approximately 85 million shares of common
stock were reserved for issuance under various employee incentive,
compensation, option and stock purchase plans, and directors’
compensation plans.
260  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Note 22 – Earnings per  shar e
Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is calculated using the two-class
method. Dilutive EPS is calculated under both the two-class and
treasury stock methods, and the more dilutive amount is reported.
Under the two-class method, all earnings (distributed and
undistributed) are allocated to each class of common stock and
participating securities based on their respective rights to receive
dividends. JPMorgan Chase grants RSUs under its share-based
compensation programs, which entitle recipients to receive
nonforfeitable dividends during the vesting period on a basis
equivalent to the dividends paid to holders of common stock; these
unvested awards meet the definition of participating securities.
Accordingly, these RSUs are treated as a separate class of securities in
computing basic EPS, and are not included as incremental shares in
computing dilutive EPS; refer to Note 9 for additional information. For
each of the periods presented diluted EPS calculated under the two-
class method was more dilutive.
The following table presents the calculation of basic and diluted EPS
for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions,
except per share amounts) 2018 2017 2016
Basic earnings per share   
Net income $ 32,474$ 24,441$ 24,733
Less: Preferred stock dividends 1,551 1,663 1,647
Net income applicable to common equity 30,923 22,778 23,086
Less: Dividends and undistributed earnings
allocated to participating securities 214 211 252
Net income applicable to common
stockholders $ 30,709$ 22,567$ 22,834
Total weighted-average basic shares
outstanding 3,396.4 3,551.6 3,658.8
Net income per share $ 9.04$ 6.35$ 6.24
Diluted earnings per share   
Net income applicable to common
stockholders $ 30,709$ 22,567$ 22,834
Total weighted-average basic shares
outstanding 3,396.4 3,551.6 3,658.8
Add: Employee stock options, SARs,
warrants and unvested PSUs 17.6 25.2 31.2
Total weighted-average diluted shares
outstanding 3,414.0 3,576.8 3,690.0
Net income per share $ 9.00$ 6.31$ 6.19
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  261
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 23 – Accumulated other  compr ehensive income/(loss)
AOCI includes the after -tax change in unrealized gains and losses on investment securities, foreign currency translation adjustments (including the
impact of related derivatives), fair value changes of excluded components on fair value hedges, cash flow hedging activities, and net loss and prior
service costs/(credit) related to  the Firm’ s defined benefit pension and OPEB plans.
 Year ended
December 31,
(in millions)Unrealized
gains/(losses)
on investment
securities  Translation
adjustments, net of
hedges  Fair value
hedges(c) Cash flow hedgesDefined benefit pension and
OPEB plansDVA on fair value
option elected
liabilitiesAccumulated other
comprehensive
income/(loss)  
 Balance at
December 31, 2015 $ 2,629   $ (162)  NA $ (44) $ (2,231) $ — $ 192
 Cumulative effect of
change in accounting
principle(a)  —   —  NA — — 154 154
 Net change  (1,105)   (2)  NA (56) (28) (330) (1,521)
 Balance at
December 31, 2016 $ 1,524   $ (164)  NA $ (100) $ (2,259) $ (176) $ (1,175)
 Net change  640   (306)  NA 176 738 (192) 1,056
 Balance at
December 31, 2017 $ 2,164   $ (470)  $ — $ 76 $ (1,521) $ (368) $ (119)
 Cumulative effect of
changes in
accounting
principles:(b)        
 Premium
amortization on
purchased
callable debt
securities  261   —  — — — — 261
 Hedge accounting 169   —  (54) — — — 115
 Reclassification of
certain tax effects
from AOCI  466   (277)  — 16 (414) (79) (288)
 Net change  (1,858)   20  (107) (201) (373) 1,043 (1,476)
 Balance at
December 31, 2018 $ 1,202   $ (727)  $ (161)$ (109) $ (2,308) $ 596 $ (1,507)
(a)Effective January 1, 2016, the Firm adopted new accounting guidance related to the recognition and measurement of financial liabilities where the fair value option has been elected.
This guidance requires the portion of the total change in fair value caused by changes in the Firm’s own credit risk (DVA) to be presented separately in OCI; previously these
amounts were recognized in net income.
(b)Represents the adjustment to AOCI as a result of the new accounting standards adopted in the first quarter of 2018. For additional information, refer to Note 1.
(c)Represents changes in fair value of cross-currency swaps attributable to changes in cross-currency basis spreads, which are excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and
recorded in other comprehensive income. The initial cost of cross-currency basis spreads is recognized in earnings as part of the accrual of interest on the cross currency swap.
262  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
The following table presents the pre-tax and after -tax changes in the components of OCI.
 2018  2017 2016
Year ended December 31, (in millions) Pre-tax  Tax ef fect After -tax Pre-tax Tax ef fect After -tax Pre-tax  Tax ef fect After -tax
Unrealized gains/(losses) on investment securities:           
Net unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period $(2,825 ) $ 665 $(2,160 ) $ 944 $ (346) $ 598 $(1,628 ) $ 611 $ (1,017 )
Reclassification adjustment for realized (gains)/losses included
in net income (a) 395 (93) 302 66 (24) 42 (141) 53 (88)
Net change (2,430 ) 572 (1,858 ) 1,010 (370) 640 (1,769 ) 664 (1,105 )
Translation adjustments (b):           
Translation (1,078 ) 156 (922) 1,313 (801) 512 (261) 99 (162)
Hedges 1,236  (294) 942 (1,294 ) 476 (818) 262 (102) 160
Net change 158 (138) 20 19 (325) (306) 1 (3) (2)
Fair value hedges, net change (c): (140) 33 (107) NA NA NA NA NA NA
Cash flow hedges:           
Net unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period (245) 58 (187) 147 (55) 92 (450) 168 (282)
Reclassification adjustment for realized (gains)/losses included
in net income (d) (18) 4 (14) 134 (50) 84 360 (134) 226
Net change (263) 62 (201) 281 (105) 176 (90) 34 (56)
Defined benefit pension and OPEB plans:           
Prior service credit/(cost) arising during the period (29) 7 (22) — — — — — —
Net gain/(loss) arising during the period (558) 102 (456) 802 (160) 642 (366) 145 (221)
Reclassification adjustments included in net income (e):           
Amortization of net loss 103 (24) 79 250 (90) 160 257 (97) 160
Amortization of prior service cost/(credit) (23) 6 (17) (36) 13 (23) (36) 14 (22)
Curtailment (gain)/loss 21 (5) 16 — — — — — —
Settlement (gain)/loss 2 — 2 2 (1) 1 4 (1) 3
Foreign exchange and other 34 (9) 25 (54) 12 (42) 77 (25) 52
Net change (450) 77 (373) 964 (226) 738 (64) 36 (28)
DVA on fair  value option elected liabilities, net change: $1,364  $ (321)$1,043  $ (303)$ 111 $ (192)$ (529) $ 199 $ (330)
Total other  compr ehensive income/(loss) $(1,761 ) $ 285 $(1,476 ) $ 1,971 $ (915) $ 1,056 $(2,451 ) $ 930 $ (1,521 )
(a)The pre-tax amount is reported in investment securities gains/(losses) in the Consolidated statements of income.
(b)Reclassifications of pre-tax realized gains/(losses) on translation adjustments and related hedges are reported in other income/expense in the Consolidated statements of income.
During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Firm reclassified a net pre-tax loss of $168 million to other expense related to the liquidation of certain legal entities, $17 million
related to net investment hedge losses and $151 million related to cumulative translation adjustments. During the year ended December 31, 2017, the Firm reclassified a net pre-tax
loss of $25 million to other expense related to the liquidation of a legal entity, $50 million related to net investment hedge gains and $75 million related to cumulative translation
adjustments.
(c)Represents changes in fair value of cross-currency swaps attributable to changes in cross-currency basis spreads, which are excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and
recorded in other comprehensive income. The initial cost of cross-currency basis spreads is recognized in earnings as part of the accrual of interest on the cross-currency swap.
(d)The pre-tax amounts are predominantly recorded in noninterest revenue, net interest income and compensation expense in the Consolidated statements of income.
(e)The pre-tax amount is reported in other expense in the Consolidated statements of income.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  263
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 24 – Income taxes
JPMorgan Chase and its eligible subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S.
federal income tax return. JPMorgan Chase uses the asset and liability
method to provide income taxes on all transactions recorded in the
Consolidated Financial Statements. This method requires that income
taxes reflect the expected future tax consequences of temporary
differences between the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities for
book and tax purposes. Accordingly, a deferred tax asset or liability for
each temporary difference is determined based on the tax rates that the
Firm expects to be in effect when the underlying items of income and
expense are realized. JPMorgan Chase’s expense for income taxes
includes the current and deferred portions of that expense. A valuation
allowance is established to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount the
Firm expects to realize.
Due to the inherent complexities arising from the nature of the Firm’s
businesses, and from conducting business and being taxed in a
substantial number of jurisdictions, significant judgments and
estimates are required to be made. Agreement of tax liabilities between
JPMorgan Chase and the many tax jurisdictions in which the Firm files
tax returns may not be finalized for several years. Thus, the Firm’s
final tax-related assets and liabilities may ultimately be different from
those currently reported.
Effective tax rate and expense
A reconciliation of the applicable statutory U.S. federal income tax rate
to the effective tax rate for each of the years ended December 31,
2018, 2017 and 2016, is presented in the following table.
Effective tax rate    
Year ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016
Statutory U.S. federal tax rate 21.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 %
Increase/(decrease) in tax rate
resulting from:    
U.S. state and local income
taxes, net of U.S. federal
income tax benefit 4.0 2.2 2.4
Tax-exempt income (1.5) (3.3) (3.1)
Non-U.S. subsidiary earnings 0.6 (3.1)(a) (1.7)(a) 
Business tax credits (3.5) (4.2) (3.9)
Impact of the TCJA (0.7) 5.4 —
Other, net 0.4 (0.1) (0.3)
Effective tax rate 20.3 % 31.9 % 28.4 %
(a)Predominantly includes earnings of U.K. subsidiaries that were deemed to be
reinvested indefinitely through December 31, 2017. Impact of the TCJA
2018
The Firm’s effective tax rate decreased in 2018 due to the TCJA,
including the reduction in the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate as
well as a $302 million net tax benefit recorded in 2018 resulting from
changes in the estimates related to the remeasurement of certain
deferred taxes and the deemed repatriation tax on non-U.S. earnings.
The change in estimate was recorded under SEC Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 118 (“SAB 118”) and the accounting under SAB 118 is
complete.
2017
The Firm’s effective tax rate increased in 2017 driven by a $1.9 billion
income tax expense representing the estimated impact of the enactment
of the TCJA. The $1.9 billion tax expense was predominantly driven
by a deemed repatriation of the Firm’s unremitted non-U.S. earnings
and adjustments to the value of certain tax-oriented investments
partially offset by a benefit from the revaluation of the Firm’s net
deferred tax liability.
The deemed repatriation of the Firm’s unremitted non-U.S. earnings is
based on the post-1986 earnings and profits of each controlled foreign
corporation. The calculation resulted in an estimated income tax
expense of $3.7 billion.  Furthermore, accounting for income taxes
requires the remeasurement of certain deferred tax assets and liabilities
based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the
future. The Firm remeasured its deferred tax asset and liability
balances in the fourth quarter of 2017 to the new statutory U.S. federal
income tax rate of 21% as well as any federal benefit associated with
state and local deferred income taxes. The remeasurement resulted in
an estimated income tax benefit of $2.1 billion.
Adjustments were also recorded in 2017 to income tax expense for
certain tax-oriented investments. These adjustments were driven by
changes to affordable housing proportional amortization resulting from
the reduction of the federal income tax rate under the TCJA. SAB 118
did not apply to these adjustments.
264  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
The components of income tax expense/(benefit) included in the
Consolidated statements of income were as follows for each of the
years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016.
Income tax expense/(benefit)
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)  2018 2017 2016
Curr ent income tax expense/(benefit)    
U.S. federal  $ 2,854 $ 5,718 $ 2,488
Non-U.S.  2,077 2,400 1,760
U.S. state and local  1,638 1,029 904
Total curr ent income tax expense/(benefit)  6,569 9,147 5,152
Deferr ed income tax expense/(benefit)    
U.S. federal  1,359 2,174 4,364
Non-U.S.  (93) (144) (73)
U.S. state and local  455 282 360
Total deferr ed income tax
expense/(benefit)  1,721 2,312 4,651
Total income tax expense  $ 8,290 $ 11,459 $ 9,803
Total income tax expense includes $54 million, $252 million and $55
million of tax benefits recorded in 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively,
as a result of tax audit resolutions.
Tax effect of items recorded in stockholders’ equity
The preceding table does not reflect the tax effect of certain items that
are recorded each period directly in stockholders’ equity. The tax effect
of all items recorded directly to stockholders’ equity resulted in an
increase of $172 million in 2018, a decrease of $915 million in 2017,
and an increase of $925 million in 2016.
Results from Non-U.S. earnings
The following table presents the U.S. and non-U.S. components of
income before income tax expense for the years ended December 31,
2018, 2017 and 2016.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2018 2017 2016
U.S. $ 33,052$ 27,103$ 26,651
Non-U.S.(a) 7,712 8,797 7,885
Income before income tax expense $ 40,764$ 35,900$ 34,536
(a)For purposes of this table, non-U.S. income is defined as income generated from
operations located outside the U.S. Prior to December 31, 2017, U.S. federal income taxes had not been
provided on the undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S.
subsidiaries, to the extent that such earnings had been reinvested
abroad for an indefinite period of time. The Firm is no longer
maintaining the indefinite reinvestment assertion on the undistributed
earnings of those non-U.S. subsidiaries in light of the enactment of the
TCJA. The U.S. federal and state and local income taxes associated
with the undistributed and previously untaxed earnings of those non-
U.S. subsidiaries was included in the deemed repatriation charge
recorded as of December 31, 2017.
Affordable housing tax credits
The Firm recognized $1.5 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.7 billion of tax
credits and other tax benefits associated with investments in affordable
housing projects within income tax expense for the years 2018, 2017
and 2016, respectively. The amount of amortization of such
investments reported in income tax expense was $1.2 billion, $1.7
billion and $1.2 billion, respectively. The carrying value of these
investments, which are reported in other assets on the Firm’s
Consolidated balance sheets, was $7.9 billion and $7.8 billion at
December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The amount of
commitments related to these investments, which are reported in
accounts payable and other liabilities on the Firm’s Consolidated
balance sheets, was $2.3 billion and $2.4 billion at December 31, 2018
and 2017, respectively.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  265
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Deferred taxes
Deferred income tax expense/(benefit) results from differences
between assets and liabilities measured for financial reporting purposes
versus income tax return purposes. Deferred tax assets are recognized
if, in management’s judgment, their realizability is determined to be
more likely than not. If a deferred tax asset is determined to be
unrealizable, a valuation allowance is established. The significant
components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are reflected in the
following table as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.
December 31, (in millions)  2018 2017
Deferred tax assets   
Allowance for loan losses  $ 3,433 $ 3,395
Employee benefits  1,129 688
Accrued expenses and other  2,701 3,528
Non-U.S. operations  629 327
Tax attribute carryforwards  163 219
Gross deferred tax assets  8,055 8,157
Valuation allowance  (89) (46)
Deferred tax assets, net of valuation
allowance  $ 7,966 $ 8,111
Deferred tax liabilities   
Depreciation and amortization  $ 2,533 $ 2,299
Mortgage servicing rights, net of hedges 2,586 2,757
Leasing transactions  4,719 3,483
Non-U.S. operations  — 200
Other, net  3,713 3,502
Gross deferred tax liabilities  13,551 12,241
Net deferred tax (liabilities)/assets  $ (5,585) $ (4,130)
JPMorgan Chase has recorded deferred tax assets of $163 million at
December 31, 2018, in connection with U.S. federal and non-U.S. net
operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards and state and local capital loss
carryforwards. At December 31, 2018, total U.S. federal NOL
carryforwards were approximately $423 million, non-U.S. NOL
carryforwards were approximately $120 million and state and local
capital loss carryforwards were $1.3 billion. If not utilized, the U.S.
federal NOL carryforwards will expire between 2022 and 2036 and the
state and local capital loss carryforwards will expire between 2020 and
2022. Certain non-U.S. NOL carryforwards will expire between 2028
and 2034 whereas others have an unlimited carryforward period.
The valuation allowance at December 31, 2018, was due to the state
and local capital loss carryforwards and certain non-U.S. deferred tax
assets, including NOL carryforwards. Unrecognized tax benefits
At December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, JPMorgan Chase’s
unrecognized tax benefits, excluding related interest expense and
penalties, were $4.9 billion, $4.7 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively,
of which $3.8 billion, $3.5 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively, if
recognized, would reduce the annual effective tax rate. Included in the
amount of unrecognized tax benefits are certain items that would not
affect the effective tax rate if they were recognized in the Consolidated
statements of income. These unrecognized items include the tax effect
of certain temporary differences, the portion of gross state and local
unrecognized tax benefits that would be offset by the benefit from
associated U.S. federal income tax deductions, and the portion of gross
non-U.S. unrecognized tax benefits that would have offsets in other
jurisdictions. JPMorgan Chase is presently under audit by a number of
taxing authorities, most notably by the Internal Revenue Service as
summarized in the Tax examination status table below. As JPMorgan
Chase is presently under audit by a number of taxing authorities, it is
reasonably possible that over the next 12 months the resolution of
these examinations may increase or decrease the gross balance of
unrecognized tax benefits by as much as $0.9 billion. Upon settlement
of an audit, the change in the unrecognized tax benefit would result
from payment or income statement recognition.
The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and
ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended
December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Balance at January 1, $ 4,747 $ 3,450 $ 3,497
Increases based on tax positions related to
the current period 980 1,355 262
Increases based on tax positions related to
prior periods 649 626 583
Decreases based on tax positions related
to prior periods (1,249) (350) (785)
Decreases related to cash settlements with
taxing authorities (266) (334) (56)
Decreases related to a lapse of applicable
statute of limitations — — (51)
Balance at December 31, $ 4,861 $ 4,747 $ 3,450
After-tax interest expense/(benefit) and penalties related to income tax
liabilities recognized in income tax expense were $192 million, $102
million and $86 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
At December 31, 2018 and 2017, in addition to the liability for
unrecognized tax benefits, the Firm had accrued $887 million and
$639 million, respectively, for income tax-related interest and
penalties.
266  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Tax examination status
JPMorgan Chase is continually under examination by the Internal
Revenue Service, by taxing authorities throughout the world, and by
many state and local jurisdictions throughout the U.S. The following
table summarizes the status of significant income tax examinations of
JPMorgan Chase and its consolidated subsidiaries as of December 31,
2018.
December 31, 2018  Periods under
examination  Status
JPMorgan Chase – U.S. 2006 – 2010 Field examination of
amended returns
JPMorgan Chase – U.S.  2011 – 2013  Field Examination
JPMorgan Chase – U.S.  2014 - 2016  Field Examination
JPMorgan Chase – New
York State  2012 - 2014 Field Examination
JPMorgan Chase – New
York City  2012 - 2014 Field Examination
JPMorgan Chase –
California  2011 – 2012 Field Examination
JPMorgan Chase – U.K. 2006 – 2016 Field examination of
certain select entities
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  267
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 25 – Restricted cash, other  restricted
assets and inter company funds transfers
Restricted cash and other restricted assets
Certain of the Firm’s cash and other assets are restricted as to
withdrawal or usage. These restrictions are imposed by various
regulatory authorities based on the particular activities of the Firm’s
subsidiaries.
The business of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is subject to examination
and regulation by the OCC. The Bank is a member of the U.S. Federal
Reserve System, and its deposits in the U.S. are insured by the FDIC,
subject to applicable limits.
The Federal Reserve requires depository institutions to maintain cash
reserves with a Federal Reserve Bank. The average required amount of
reserve balances is deposited by the Firm’s bank subsidiaries. In
addition, the Firm is required to maintain cash reserves at certain non-
US central banks.
The Firm is also subject to rules and regulations established by other
U.S. and non U.S. regulators. As part of its compliance with the
respective regulatory requirements, the Firm’s broker-dealers
(principally J.P. Morgan Securities LLC in the U.S and J.P. Morgan
Securities plc in the U.K.) are subject to certain restrictions on cash
and other assets.
Upon the adoption of the restricted cash guidance in the first quarter of
2018, restricted and unrestricted cash are reported together on the
Consolidated balance sheets and Consolidated statements of cash
flows. The following table presents the components of the Firm’s
restricted cash:
December 31, (in billions) 2018 2017
Cash reserves – Federal Reserve Banks $ 22.1$ 25.7
Segregated for the benefit of securities and
futures brokerage customers 14.6 16.8
Cash reserves at non-U.S. central banks
and held for other general purposes 4.1 3.3
Total restricted cash(a) $ 40.8$ 45.8
(a)Comprises $39.6 billion and $44.8 billion in deposits with banks, and $1.2 billion
and $1.0 billion in cash and due from banks on the Consolidated balance sheets as of
December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Also, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Firm had the following
other restricted assets:
•Cash and securities pledged with clearing organizations for the
benefit of customers of $20.6 billion and $18.0 billion, respectively.
•Securities with a fair value of $9.7 billion and $3.5 billion,
respectively, were also restricted in relation to customer activity. Intercompany funds transfers
Restrictions imposed by U.S. federal law prohibit JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (“Parent Company”) and certain of its affiliates from borrowing
from banking subsidiaries unless the loans are secured in specified
amounts. Such secured loans provided by any banking subsidiary to
the Parent Company or to any particular affiliate, together with certain
other transactions with such affiliate (collectively referred to as
“covered transactions”), are generally limited to 10% of the banking
subsidiary’s total capital, as determined by the risk-based capital
guidelines; the aggregate amount of covered transactions between any
banking subsidiary and all of its affiliates is limited to 20% of the
banking subsidiary’s total capital.
The Parent Company’s two principal subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Holdings LLC, an intermediate
holding company (the “IHC”). The IHC holds the stock of
substantially all of JPMorgan Chase’s subsidiaries other than
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and its subsidiaries. The IHC also owns
other assets and intercompany indebtedness owing to the holding
company. The Parent Company is obligated to contribute to the IHC
substantially all the net proceeds received from securities issuances
(including issuances of senior and subordinated debt securities and of
preferred and common stock).
The principal sources of income and funding for the Parent Company
are dividends from JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and dividends and
extensions of credit from the IHC. In addition to dividend restrictions
set forth in statutes and regulations, the Federal Reserve, the OCC and
the FDIC have authority under the Financial Institutions Supervisory
Act to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking
organizations they supervise, including the Parent Company and its
subsidiaries that are banks or bank holding companies, if, in the
banking regulator’s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute
an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the
banking organization. The IHC is prohibited from paying dividends or
extending credit to the Parent Company if certain capital or liquidity
“thresholds” are breached or if limits are otherwise imposed by the
Parent Company’s management or Board of Directors.
At January 1, 2019, the Parent Company’s banking subsidiaries could
pay, in the aggregate, approximately $10 billion in dividends to their
respective bank holding companies without the prior approval of their
relevant banking regulators. The capacity to pay dividends in 2019 will
be supplemented by the banking subsidiaries’ earnings during the year.
268  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Note 26 – Regulatory capital
The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements, including well-
capitalized standards, for the consolidated financial holding company.
The OCC establishes similar minimum capital requirements and
standards for the Firm’s IDI, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
and Chase Bank USA, N.A.
Capital rules under Basel III establish minimum capital ratios and
overall capital adequacy standards for large and internationally active
U.S. bank holding companies and banks, including the Firm and its IDI
subsidiaries. Basel III set forth two comprehensive approaches for
calculating RWA: a standardized approach (“Basel III Standardized”)
and an advanced approach (“Basel III Advanced”). Certain of the
requirements of Basel III were subject to phase-in periods that began
on January 1, 2014 and continued through the end of 2018
(“transitional period”).
The three components of regulatory capital under the Basel III rules
are as illustrated below:
Under the risk-based and leverage-based capital guidelines of the
Federal Reserve, JPMorgan Chase is required to maintain minimum
ratios for CET1, Tier 1, Total, Tier 1 leverage and the SLR. Failure to
meet these minimum requirements could cause the Federal Reserve to
take action. IDI subsidiaries are also subject to these capital
requirements by their respective primary regulators. The following table presents the minimum and well-capitalized ratios
to which the Firm and its IDI subsidiaries were subject as of
December 31, 2018.
 Minimum capital ratios Well-capitalized ratios
 BHC(a)(e)(f) IDI(b)(e)(f) BHC(c) IDI(d)
Capital ratios     
CET1 9.0% 6.375% —% 6.5%
Tier 1 10.5 7.875 6.0 8.0
Total 12.5 9.875 10.0 10.0
Tier 1 leverage 4.0 4.00 5.0 5.0
SLR 5.0 6.00 — 6.0
Note: The table above is as defined by the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve,
OCC and FDIC and to which the Firm and its IDI subsidiaries are subject.
(a)Represents the Transitional minimum capital ratios applicable to the Firm under
Basel III at December 31, 2018. At December 31, 2018, the CET1 minimum capital
ratio includes 1.875% resulting from the phase in of the Firm’s 2.5% capital
conservation buffer, and 2.625% resulting from the phase in of the Firm’s 3.5%
GSIB surcharge.
(b)Represents requirements for JPMorgan Chase’s IDI subsidiaries. The CET1
minimum capital ratio includes 1.875% resulting from the phase in of the 2.5%
capital conservation buffer that is applicable to the IDI subsidiaries. The IDI
subsidiaries are not subject to the GSIB surcharge.
(c)Represents requirements for bank holding companies pursuant to regulations issued
by the Federal Reserve.
(d)Represents requirements for IDI subsidiaries pursuant to regulations issued under
the FDIC Improvement Act.
(e)For the period ended December 31, 2017 the CET1, Tier 1, Total and Tier 1 leverage
minimum capital ratios applicable to the Firm were 7.5%, 9.0%, 11.0% and 4.0%
and the CET1, Tier 1, Total and Tier 1 leverage minimum capital ratios applicable to
the Firm’s IDI subsidiaries were 5.75%, 7.25%, 9.25% and 4.0% respectively.
(f)Represents minimum SLR requirement of 3.0%, as well as, supplementary leverage
buffers of 2.0% and 3.0% for BHC and IDI, respectively.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  269
Notes to consolidated financial statements
The following tables present the risk-based and leverage-based capital metrics for JPMorgan Chase and its significant IDI subsidiaries under both
the Basel III Standardized and Basel III Advanced Approaches. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, JPMorgan Chase and all of its IDI subsidiaries
were well-capitalized and met all capital requirements to which each was subject.
December 31, 2018
(in millions, except ratios)Basel III Standardized Transitional  Basel III Advanced Transitional
JPMorgan
Chase & Co.JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A.Chase Bank
USA, N.A.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A.Chase Bank
USA, N.A.
Regulatory capital      
CET1 capital $ 183,474 $ 187,259 $ 23,696 $ 183,474 $ 187,259 $ 23,696
Tier 1 capital 209,093 187,259 23,696 209,093 187,259 23,696
Total capital 237,511 198,494 28,628 227,435 192,250 27,196
Assets       
Risk-weighted 1,528,916 1,348,230 112,513 1,421,205 1,205,539 174,469
Adjusted average(a) 2,589,887 2,189,293 118,036 2,589,887 2,189,293 118,036
Capital ratios(b)       
CET1 12.0% 13.9% 21.1% 12.9% 15.5% 13.6%
Tier 1 13.7 13.9 21.1 14.7 15.5 13.6
Total 15.5 14.7 25.4 16.0 15.9 15.6
Tier 1 leverage(c) 8.1 8.6 20.1 8.1 8.6 20.1
December 31, 2017
(in millions, except ratios)Basel III Standardized Transitional Basel III Advanced Transitional
JPMorgan
Chase & Co.JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A.Chase Bank
USA, N.A.JPMorgan
Chase & Co.JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. Chase Bank
USA, N.A.
Regulatory capital      
CET1 capital $ 183,300$ 184,375 $ 21,600 $ 183,300$ 184,375 $ 21,600
Tier 1 capital 208,644 184,375 21,600 208,644 184,375 21,600
Total capital 238,395 195,839 27,691 227,933 189,510 (d) 26,250
Assets        
Risk-weighted 1,499,506 1,338,970 (d) 113,108 1,435,825 1,241,916 (d) 190,523
Adjusted average(a) 2,514,270 2,116,031 126,517 2,514,270 2,116,031 126,517
Capital ratios(b)        
CET1 12.2% 13.8% 19.1% 12.8% 14.8%(d) 11.3%
Tier 1 13.9 13.8 19.1 14.5 14.8 (d) 11.3
Total 15.9 14.6 (d) 24.5 15.9 15.3 (d) 13.8
Tier 1 leverage(c) 8.3 8.7 17.1 8.3 8.7 17.1
(a)Adjusted average assets, for purposes of calculating the Tier 1 leverage ratio, includes total quarterly average assets adjusted for on-balance sheet assets that are subject to deduction
from Tier 1 capital, predominantly goodwill and other intangible assets.
(b)For each of the risk-based capital ratios, the capital adequacy of the Firm and its IDI subsidiaries is evaluated against the lower of the two ratios as calculated under Basel III
approaches (Standardized or Advanced).
(c)The Tier 1 leverage ratio is not a risk-based measure of capital.
(d)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
 December 31, 2018  December 31, 2017
 Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In Basel III Advanced Transitional
(in millions, except ratios)JPMorgan
Chase & Co.JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A.Chase Bank
USA, N.A.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A.Chase Bank
USA, N.A.
Total leverage exposure(a) 3,269,988$ 2,813,396$ 177,328 $ 3,204,463$ 2,775,041$ 182,803
SLR(a) 6.4% 6.7% 13.4% 6.5% 6.6% 11.8%
(a)Effective January 1, 2018, the SLR was fully phased-in under Basel III. The December 31, 2017 amounts were calculated under the Basel III Transitional rules.
270  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Note 27 – Off–balance sheet lending-r elated
financial instruments, guarantees, and
other  commitments
JPMorgan Chase provides lending-related financial instruments (e.g.,
commitments and guarantees) to address the financing needs of its
customers and clients. The contractual amount of these financial
instruments represents the maximum possible credit risk to the Firm
should the customer or client draw upon the commitment or the Firm
be required to fulfill its obligation under the guarantee, and should the
customer or client subsequently fail to perform according to the terms
of the contract. Most of these commitments and guarantees are
refinanced, extended, cancelled, or expire without being drawn or a
default occurring. As a result, the total contractual amount of these
instruments is not, in the Firm’s view, representative of its expected
future credit exposure or funding requirements. To provide for probable credit losses inherent in wholesale and certain
consumer lending-commitments, an allowance for credit losses on
lending-related commitments is maintained. Refer to Note 13 for
further information regarding the allowance for credit losses on
lending-related commitments. The following table summarizes the
contractual amounts and carrying values of off-balance sheet lending-
related financial instruments, guarantees and other commitments at
December 31, 2018 and 2017. The amounts in the table below for
credit card and home equity lending-related commitments represent the
total available credit for these products. The Firm has not experienced,
and does not anticipate, that all available lines of credit for these
products will be utilized at the same time. The Firm can reduce or
cancel credit card lines of credit by providing the borrower notice or,
in some cases as permitted by law, without notice. In addition, the
Firm typically closes credit card lines when the borrower is 60 days or
more past due. The Firm may reduce or close HELOCs when there are
significant decreases in the value of the underlying property, or when
there has been a demonstrable decline in the creditworthiness of the
borrower.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  271
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Off–balance sheet lending-related financial instruments, guarantees and other commitments  
 Contractual amount Carrying value(i)
 2018 2017 2018 2017
By remaining maturity at December 31,
(in millions)Expires in 1
year or lessExpires after
1 year
through
3 yearsExpires after
3 years
through
5 yearsExpires after
5 years Total Total  
Lending-related     
Consumer, excluding credit card:     
Home equity $ 796$ 1,095$ 1,813$ 17,197$ 20,901 $ 20,360 $ 12$ 12
Residential mortgage(a) 5,469 — — 12 5,481 5,736 — —
Auto 6,954 878 78 101 8,011 9,255 2 2
Consumer & Business Banking 10,580 566 102 425 11,673 13,202 19 19
Total consumer, excluding credit card 23,799 2,539 1,993 17,735 46,066 48,553 33 33
Credit card 605,379 — — — 605,379 572,831 — —
Total consumer(b) 629,178 2,539 1,993 17,735 651,445 621,384 33 33
Wholesale:     
Other unfunded commitments to extend credit(c) 62,384 123,751 154,177 11,178 351,490 331,160 852 840
Standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees(c) 14,408 11,462 5,248 2,380 33,498 35,226 521 636
Other letters of credit(c) 2,608 177 40 — 2,825 3,712 3 3
Total wholesale(d) 79,400 135,390 159,465 13,558 387,813 370,098 1,376 1,479
Total lending-related $708,578$137,929$161,458$ 31,293$1,039,258 $991,482 $1,409$1,512
Other guarantees and commitments     
Securities lending indemnification agreements and guarantees(e)$186,077$ — $ — $ — $ 186,077 $179,490 $ — $ —
Derivatives qualifying as guarantees 2,099 299 12,614 40,259 55,271 57,174 367 304
Unsettled resale and securities borrowed agreements 102,008 — — — 102,008 76,859 — —
Unsettled repurchase and securities loaned agreements 57,732 — — — 57,732 44,205 — —
Loan sale and securitization-related indemnifications:     
Mortgage repurchase liability NA NA NA NA NA NA 89 111
Loans sold with recourse NA NA NA NA 1,019 1,169 30 38
Exchange & clearing house guarantees and commitments(f)(g) 58,960 — — — 58,960 13,871 — —
Other guarantees and commitments (g)(h) 3,874 542 299 3,468 8,183 8,206 (73) (76)
(a)Includes certain commitments to purchase loans from correspondents.
(b)Predominantly all consumer lending-related commitments are in the U.S.
(c)At December 31, 2018 and 2017, reflected the contractual amount net of risk participations totaling $282 million and $334 million, respectively, for other unfunded commitments to
extend credit; $10.4 billion and $10.4 billion, respectively, for standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees; and $385 million and $405 million, respectively, for other
letters of credit. In regulatory filings with the Federal Reserve these commitments are shown gross of risk participations.
(d)Predominantly all wholesale lending-related commitments are in the U.S.
(e)At December 31, 2018 and 2017, collateral held by the Firm in support of securities lending indemnification agreements was $195.6 billion and $188.7 billion, respectively.
Securities lending collateral primarily consists of cash and securities issued by governments that are members of G7 and U.S. government agencies.
(f)At December 31, 2018, includes guarantees to the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation under the sponsored member repo program and commitments and guarantees associated with
the Firm’s membership in certain clearing houses. At December 31, 2017 includes commitments and guarantees associated with the Firm’s membership in certain clearing houses.
(g)Certain guarantees and commitments associated with the Firm’s membership in clearing houses previously disclosed in “other guarantees and commitments” are now disclosed in
“Exchange and clearing house guarantees and commitments”. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
(h)At December 31, 2018 and 2017, primarily includes letters of credit hedged by derivative transactions and managed on a market risk basis, and unfunded commitments related to
institutional lending. Additionally, includes unfunded commitments predominantly related to certain tax-oriented equity investments.
(i)For lending-related products, the carrying value represents the allowance for lending-related commitments and the guarantee liability; for derivative-related products, the carrying
value represents the fair value.
272  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Other unfunded commitments to extend credit
Other unfunded commitments to extend credit generally consist of
commitments for working capital and general corporate purposes,
extensions of credit to support commercial paper facilities and bond
financings in the event that those obligations cannot be remarketed to
new investors, as well as committed liquidity facilities to clearing
organizations. The Firm also issues commitments under multipurpose
facilities which could be drawn upon in several forms, including the
issuance of a standby letter of credit.
The Firm acts as a settlement and custody bank in the U.S. tri-party
repurchase transaction market. In its role as settlement and custody
bank, the Firm in part is exposed to the intra-day credit risk of its cash
borrower clients, usually broker-dealers. This exposure arises under
secured clearance advance facilities that the Firm extended to its
clients (i.e. cash borrowers); these facilities contractually limit the
Firm’s intra-day credit risk to the facility amount and must be repaid
by the end of the day. As of December 31, 2017, the secured clearance
advance facility maximum outstanding commitment amount was $1.5
billion. As of December 31, 2018 the Firm no longer offers such
arrangements to its clients.
Guarantees
U.S. GAAP requires that a guarantor recognize, at the inception of a
guarantee, a liability in an amount equal to the fair value of the
obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee. U.S. GAAP defines a
guarantee as a contract that contingently requires the guarantor to pay
a guaranteed party based upon: (a) changes in an underlying asset,
liability or equity security of the guaranteed party; or (b) a third party’s
failure to perform under a specified agreement. The Firm considers the
following off–balance sheet arrangements to be guarantees under U.S.
GAAP: standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees,
securities lending indemnifications, certain indemnificat ion agreements included within third-party contractual arrangements,
certain derivative contracts and the guarantees under the sponsored
member repo program.
As required by U.S. GAAP, the Firm initially records guarantees at the
inception date fair value of the obligation assumed (e.g., the amount of
consideration received or the net present value of the premium
receivable). For certain types of guarantees, the Firm records this fair
value amount in other liabilities with an offsetting entry recorded in
cash (for premiums received), or other assets (for premiums
receivable). Any premium receivable recorded in other assets is
reduced as cash is received under the contract, and the fair value of the
liability recorded at inception is amortized into income as lending and
deposit-related fees over the life of the guarantee contract. For
indemnifications provided in sales agreements, a portion of the sale
proceeds is allocated to the guarantee, which adjusts the gain or loss
that would otherwise result from the transaction. For these
indemnifications, the initial liability is amortized to income as the
Firm’s risk is reduced (i.e., over time or when the indemnification
expires). Any contingent liability that exists as a result of issuing the
guarantee or indemnification is recognized when it becomes probable
and reasonably estimable. The contingent portion of the liability is not
recognized if the estimated amount is less than the carrying amount of
the liability recognized at inception (adjusted for any amortization).
The contractual amount and carrying value of guarantees and
indemnifications are included in the table on page 272. For additional
information on the guarantees, see below.
Standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees
Standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees are conditional
lending commitments issued by the Firm to guarantee the performance
of a client or customer to a third party under certain arrangements,
such as commercial paper facilities, bond financings, acquisition
financings, trade and similar transactions.
The following table summarizes the contractual amount and carrying value of standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees and other
letters of credit arrangements as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.
Standby letters of credit, other financial guarantees and other letters of credit
 2018  2017
December 31,
(in millions)Standby letters of credit and
other financial guarantees  Other letters
of credit  Standby letters of credit and
other financial guaranteesOther letters
of credit
Investment-grade(a) $ 26,420  $ 2,079  $ 28,492 $ 2,646
Noninvestment-grade(a) 7,078  746  6,734 1,066
Total contractual amount $ 33,498  $ 2,825  $ 35,226 $ 3,712
Allowance for lending-related commitments $ 167  $ 3  $ 192 $ 3
Guarantee liability 354  —  444 —
Total carrying value $ 521  $ 3  $ 636 $ 3
Commitments with collateral $ 17,400  $ 583  $ 17,421 $ 878
(a)The ratings scale is based on the Firm’s internal ratings which generally correspond to ratings as defined by S&P and Moody’s.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  273
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Securities lending indemnifications
Through the Firm’s securities lending program, counterparties’
securities, via custodial and non-custodial arrangements, may be lent
to third parties. As part of this program, the Firm provides an
indemnification in the lending agreements which protects the lender
against the failure of the borrower to return the lent securities. To
minimize its liability under these indemnification agreements, the Firm
obtains cash or other highly liquid collateral with a market value
exceeding 100% of the value of the securities on loan from the
borrower. Collateral is marked to market daily to help assure that
collateralization is adequate. Additional collateral is called from the
borrower if a shortfall exists, or collateral may be released to the
borrower in the event of overcollateralization. If a borrower defaults,
the Firm would use the collateral held to purchase replacement
securities in the market or to credit the lending client or counterparty
with the cash equivalent thereof.
Derivatives qualifying as guarantees
The Firm transacts certain derivative contracts that have the
characteristics of a guarantee under U.S. GAAP. These contracts
include written put options that require the Firm to purchase assets
upon exercise by the option holder at a specified price by a specified
date in the future. The Firm may enter into written put option contracts
in order to meet client needs, or for other trading purposes. The terms
of written put options are typically five years or less.
Derivatives deemed to be guarantees also includes stable value
contracts, commonly referred to as “stable value products”, that
require the Firm to make a payment of the difference between the
market value and the book value of a counterparty’s reference portfolio
of assets in the event that market value is less than book value and
certain other conditions have been met. Stable value products are
transacted in order to allow investors to realize investment returns with
less volatility than an unprotected portfolio. These contracts are
typically longer-term or may have no stated maturity, but allow the
Firm to elect to terminate the contract under certain conditions.
The notional value of derivatives guarantees  generally represents the
Firm’s maximum exposure. However, exposure to certain stable value
products is contractually limited to a substantially lower percentage of
the notional amount.
The fair value of derivative guarantees reflects the probability, in the
Firm’s view, of whether the Firm will be required to perform under the
contract. The Firm reduces exposures to these contracts by entering
into offsetting transactions, or by entering into contracts that hedge the
market risk related to the derivative guarantees. The following table summarizes the derivatives qualifying as
guarantees as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.
(in millions)December 31,
2018December 31, 2017
Notional amounts  
Derivative guarantees $ 55,271$ 57,174
Stable value contracts with contractually
limited exposure 28,637 29,104
Maximum exposure of stable value
contracts with contractually limited
exposure 2,963 3,053
Fair value  
Derivative payables 367 304
Derivative receivables — —
In addition to derivative contracts that meet the characteristics of a
guarantee, the Firm is both a purchaser and seller of credit protection
in the credit derivatives market. For a further discussion of credit
derivatives, refer to Note 5.
Unsettled securities financing agreements
In the normal course of business, the Firm enters into resale and
securities borrowed agreements. At settlement, these commitments
result in the Firm advancing cash to and receiving securities collateral
from the counterparty. The Firm also enters into repurchase and
securities loaned agreements. At settlement, these commitments result
in the Firm receiving cash from and providing securities collateral to
the counterparty. Such agreements settle at a future date. These
agreements generally do not meet the definition of a derivative, and
therefore, are not recorded on the Consolidated balance sheets until
settlement date. These agreements predominantly have regular-way
settlement terms. For a further discussion of securities financing
agreements, refer to Note 11.
Loan sales- and securitization-related indemnifications
Mortgage repurchase liability
In connection with the Firm’s mortgage loan sale and securitization
activities with GSEs the Firm has made representations and warranties
that the loans sold meet certain requirements, and that may require the
Firm to repurchase mortgage loans and/or indemnify the loan purchaser
if such representations and warranties are breached by the Firm.
Further, although the Firm’s securitizations are predominantly
nonrecourse, the Firm does provide recourse servicing in certain
limited cases where it agrees to share credit risk with the owner of the
mortgage loans. To the extent that repurchase demands that are
received relate to loans that the Firm purchased from third parties that
remain viable, the Firm typically will have the right to seek a recovery
of related repurchase losses from the third party. Generally, the
maximum amount of future payments the Firm would be required to
make for breaches of these representations and warranties would be
equal to the unpaid principal balance of such loans that are deemed to
have defects that were sold to purchasers (including securitization-
related SPEs) plus, in certain circumstances, accrued interest on such
loans and certain expenses.
274  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Private label securitizations
The liability related to repurchase demands associated with private
label securitizations is separately evaluated by the Firm in establishing
its litigation reserves.
For additional information regarding litigation, refer to Note 29.
Loans sold with recourse
The Firm provides servicing for mortgages and certain commercial
lending products on both a recourse and nonrecourse basis. In
nonrecourse servicing, the principal credit risk to the Firm is the cost
of temporary servicing advances of funds (i.e., normal servicing
advances). In recourse servicing, the servicer agrees to share credit risk
with the owner of the mortgage loans, such as Fannie Mae or Freddie
Mac or a private investor, insurer or guarantor. Losses on recourse
servicing predominantly occur when foreclosure sales proceeds of the
property underlying a defaulted loan are less than the sum of the
outstanding principal balance, plus accrued interest on the loan and the
cost of holding and disposing of the underlying property. The Firm’s
securitizations are predominantly nonrecourse, thereby effectively
transferring the risk of future credit losses to the purchaser of the
mortgage-backed securities issued by the trust. At December 31, 2018
and 2017, the unpaid principal balance of loans sold with recourse
totaled $1.0 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively. The carrying value of
the related liability that the Firm has recorded in accounts payable and
other liabilities on the Consolidated balance sheets, which is
representative of the Firm’s view of the likelihood it will have to
perform under its recourse obligations, was $30 million and $38
million at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Other off-balance sheet arrangements
Indemnification agreements – general
In connection with issuing securities to investors outside the U.S., the
Firm may agree to pay additional amounts to the holders of the
securities in the event that, due to a change in tax law, certain types of
withholding taxes are imposed on payments on the securities. The
terms of the securities may also give the Firm the right to redeem the
securities if such additional amounts are payable. The Firm may also
enter into indemnification clauses in connection with the licensing of
software to clients (“software licensees”) or when it sells a business or
assets to a third party (“third-party purchasers”), pursuant to which it
indemnifies software licensees for claims of liability or damages that
may occur subsequent to the licensing of the software, or third-party
purchasers for losses they may incur due to actions taken by the Firm
prior to the sale of the business or assets. It is difficult to estimate the
Firm’s maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements,
since this would require an assessment of future changes in tax law and
future claims that may be made against the Firm that have not yet
occurred. However, based on historical experience, management
expects the risk of loss to be remote. Card charge-backs
Under the rules of Visa USA, Inc., and MasterCard International,
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., is primarily liable for the amount of each
processed card sales transaction that is the subject of a dispute between
a cardmember and a merchant. If a dispute is resolved in the
cardmember’s favor, Merchant Services will (through the
cardmember’s issuing bank) credit or refund the amount to the
cardmember and will charge back the transaction to the merchant. If
Merchant Services is unable to collect the amount from the merchant,
Merchant Services will bear the loss for the amount credited or
refunded to the cardmember. Merchant Services mitigates this risk by
withholding future settlements, retaining cash reserve accounts or by
obtaining other collateral. However, in the unlikely event that: (1) a
merchant ceases operations and is unable to deliver products, services
or a refund; (2) Merchant Services does not have sufficient collateral
from the merchant to provide cardmember refunds; and (3) Merchant
Services does not have sufficient financial resources to provide
cardmember refunds, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., would recognize
the loss.
Merchant Services incurred aggregate losses of $30 million, $28
million, and $85 million on $1,366.1 billion, $1,191.7 billion, and
$1,063.4 billion of aggregate volume processed for the years ended
December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Incurred losses from
merchant charge-backs are charged to other expense, with the offset
recorded in a valuation allowance against accrued interest and
accounts receivable on the Consolidated balance sheets. The carrying
value of the valuation allowance was $23 million and $7 million at
December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, which the Firm believes,
based on historical experience and the collateral held by Merchant
Services of $144 million and $141 million at December 31, 2018 and
2017, respectively, is representative of the payment or performance
risk to the Firm related to charge-backs.
Clearing Services – Client Credit Risk
The Firm provides clearing services for clients by entering into
securities purchases and sales and derivative contracts with CCPs,
including ETDs such as futures and options, as well as OTC-cleared
derivative contracts. As a clearing member, the Firm stands behind the
performance of its clients, collects cash and securities collateral
(margin) as well as any settlement amounts due from or to clients, and
remits them to the relevant CCP or client in whole or part. There are
two types of margin: variation margin is posted on a daily basis based
on the value of clients’ derivative contracts and initial margin is posted
at inception of a derivative contract, generally on the basis of the
potential changes in the variation margin requirement for the contract.
As a clearing member, the Firm is exposed to the risk of
nonperformance by its clients, but is not liable to clients for the
performance of the CCPs. Where possible, the Firm seeks to mitigate
its risk to the client through the collection of appropriate amounts of
margin at inception and throughout the life of the transactions. The
Firm can also cease providing clearing services if clients do not adhere
to
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  275
Notes to consolidated financial statements
their obligations under the clearing agreement. In the event of
nonperformance by a client, the Firm would close out the client’s
positions and access available margin. The CCP would utilize any
margin it holds to make itself whole, with any remaining shortfalls
required to be paid by the Firm as a clearing member.
The Firm reflects its exposure to nonperformance risk of the client
through the recognition of margin receivables from clients and margin
payables to CCPs; the clients’ underlying securities or derivative
contracts are not reflected in the Firm’s Consolidated Financial
Statements.
It is difficult to estimate the Firm’s maximum possible exposure
through its role as a clearing member, as this would require an
assessment of transactions that clients may execute in the future.
However, based upon historical experience, and the credit risk
mitigants available to the Firm, management believes it is unlikely that
the Firm will have to make any material payments under these
arrangements and the risk of loss is expected to be remote.
For information on the derivatives that the Firm executes for its own
account and records in its Consolidated Financial Statements, refer to
Note 5.
Exchange & Clearing House Memberships
The Firm is a member of several securities and derivative exchanges
and clearing houses, both in the U.S. and other countries, and it
provides clearing services to its clients. Membership in some of these
organizations requires the Firm to pay a pro rata share of the losses
incurred by the organization as a result of the default of another
member. Such obligations vary with different organizations. These
obligations may be limited to the amount (or a multiple of the amount)
of the Firm’s contribution to the guarantee fund maintained by a
clearing house or exchange as part of the resources available to cover
any losses in the event of a member default. Alternatively, these
obligations may also include a pro rata share of the residual losses after
applying the guarantee fund. Additionally, certain clearing houses
require the Firm as a member to pay a pro rata share of losses that may
result from the clearing house’s investment of guarantee fund
contributions and initial margin, unrelated to and independent of the
default of another member. Generally a payment would only be
required should such losses exceed the resources of the clearing house
or exchange that are contractually required to absorb the losses in the
first instance. In certain cases, it is difficult to estimate the Firm’s
maximum possible exposure under these membership agreements,
since this would require an assessment of future claims that may be
made against the Firm that have not yet occurred. However, based on
historical experience, management expects the risk of loss to the Firm
to be remote. Where the Firm’s maximum possible exposure can be
estimated, the amount is disclosed in the table on page 272, in the
Exchange & clearing house guarantees and commitments line. Sponsored Member Repo Program
In 2018 the Firm commenced the sponsored member repo program,
wherein the Firm acts as a sponsoring member to clear eligible
overnight resale and repurchase agreements through the Government
Securities Division of the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation
(“FICC”) on behalf of clients that become sponsored members under
the FICC’s rules. The Firm also guarantees to the FICC the prompt and
full payment and performance of its sponsored member clients’
respective obligations under the FICC’s rules. The Firm minimizes its
liability under these overnight guarantees by obtaining a security
interest in the cash or high quality securities collateral that the clients
place with the clearing house therefore the Firm expects the risk of loss
to be remote. The Firm’s maximum possible exposure, without taking
into consideration the associated collateral, is included in the Exchange
& clearing house guarantees and commitments line on page 272. For
additional information on credit risk mitigation practices on resale
agreements and the types of collateral pledged under repurchase
agreements, refer to Note 11.
Guarantees of subsidiaries
In the normal course of business, the Parent Company may provide
counterparties with guarantees of certain of the trading and other
obligations of its subsidiaries on a contract-by-contract basis, as
negotiated with the Firm’s counterparties. The obligations of the
subsidiaries are included on the Firm’s Consolidated balance sheets or
are reflected as off-balance sheet commitments; therefore, the Parent
Company has not recognized a separate liability for these guarantees.
The Firm believes that the occurrence of any event that would trigger
payments by the Parent Company under these guarantees is remote.
The Parent Company has guaranteed certain long-term debt and
structured notes of its subsidiaries, including JPMorgan Chase
Financial Company LLC (“JPMFC”), a 100%-owned finance
subsidiary. All securities issued by JPMFC are fully and
unconditionally guaranteed by the Parent Company. These guarantees,
which rank on a parity with the Firm’s unsecured and unsubordinated
indebtedness, are not included in the table on page 272 of this Note.
For additional information, refer to Note 19.
276  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Note 28 – Commitments, pledged assets and
collateral
Lease commitments
At December 31, 2018, JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries were
obligated under a number of noncancelable operating leases for
premises and equipment used primarily for banking purposes. Certain
leases contain renewal options or escalation clauses providing for
increased rental payments based on maintenance, utility and tax
increases, or they require the Firm to perform restoration work on
leased premises. No lease agreement imposes restrictions on the Firm’s
ability to pay dividends, engage in debt or equity financing
transactions or enter into further lease agreements.
The following table presents required future minimum rental payments
under operating leases with noncancelable lease terms that expire after
December 31, 2018.
Year ended December 31, (in millions)
2019 1,561
2020 1,520
2021 1,320
2022 1,138
2023 973
After 2023 4,480
Total minimum payments required 10,992
Less: Sublease rentals under noncancelable subleases (825)
Net minimum payments required $ 10,167
Total rental expense was as follows.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)   
 2018  2017  2016
Gross rental expense  $ 1,881 $ 1,853 $ 1,860
Sublease rental income  (239) (251) (241)
Net rental expense  $ 1,642 $ 1,602 $ 1,619 Pledged assets
The Firm may pledge financial assets that it owns to maintain potential
borrowing capacity at discount windows with Federal Reserve banks,
various other central banks and FHLBs. Additionally, pledged assets
are used for other purposes, including to collateralize repurchase and
other securities financing agreements, to cover short sales and to
collateralize derivative contracts and deposits. Certain of these pledged
assets may be sold or repledged or otherwise used by the secured
parties and are parenthetically identified on the Consolidated balance
sheets as assets pledged.
The following table presents the Firm’s pledged assets.
December 31, (in billions) 2018 2017
Assets that may be sold or repledged or otherwise
used by secured parties $ 104.0$ 135.8
Assets that may not be sold or repledged or otherwise
used by secured parties 83.7 68.1
Assets pledged at Federal Reserve banks and FHLBs 475.3 493.7
Total assets pledged $ 663.0$ 697.6
Total assets pledged do not include assets of consolidated VIEs; these
assets are used to settle the liabilities of those entities. Refer to Note 14
for additional information on assets and liabilities of consolidated
VIEs. For additional information on the Firm’s securities financing
activities, refer to Note 11. For additional information on the Firm’s
long-term debt, refer to Note 19. The significant components of the
Firm’s pledged assets were as follows.
December 31, (in billions) 2018 2017
Investment securities $ 59.5$ 86.2
Loans 440.1 437.7
Trading assets and other 163.4 173.7
Total assets pledged $ 663.0$ 697.6
Collateral
The Firm accepts financial assets as collateral that it is permitted to sell
or repledge, deliver or otherwise use. This collateral is generally obtained
under resale and other securities financing agreements, customer margin
loans and derivative contracts. Collateral is generally used under
repurchase and other securities financing agreements, to cover short sales
and to collateralize derivative contracts and deposits.
The following table presents the fair value of collateral accepted.
December 31, (in billions) 2018 2017
Collateral permitted to be sold or repledged, delivered,
or otherwise used $ 1,245.3$ 968.8
Collateral sold, repledged, delivered or otherwise used 998.3 771.0
Certain prior period amounts for both collateral and pledged assets
(including the corresponding pledged assets parenthetical disclosure for
trading assets and other assets on the Consolidated balance sheets) have
been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  277
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 29 – Litigation
Contingencies
As of December 31, 2018, the Firm and its subsidiaries and affiliates
are defendants or putative defendants in numerous legal proceedings,
including private, civil litigations and regulatory/government
investigations. The litigations range from individual actions involving
a single plaintiff to class action lawsuits with potentially millions of
class members. Investigations involve both formal and informal
proceedings, by both governmental agencies and self-regulatory
organizations. These legal proceedings are at varying stages of
adjudication, arbitration or investigation, and involve each of the
Firm’s lines of business and geographies and a wide variety of claims
(including common law tort and contract claims and statutory antitrust,
securities and consumer protection claims), some of which present
novel legal theories.
The Firm believes the estimate of the aggregate range of reasonably
possible losses, in excess of reserves established, for its legal
proceedings is from $0 to approximately $1.5 billion at December 31,
2018. This estimated aggregate range of reasonably possible losses
was based upon currently available information for those proceedings
in which the Firm believes that an estimate of reasonably possible loss
can be made. For certain matters, the Firm does not believe that such
an estimate can be made, as of that date. The Firm’s estimate of the
aggregate range of reasonably possible losses involves significant
judgment, given:
•the number, variety and varying stages of the proceedings,
including the fact that many are in preliminary stages,
•the existence in many such proceedings of multiple defendants,
including the Firm, whose share of liability (if any) has yet to be
determined,
•the numerous yet-unresolved issues in many of the proceedings,
including issues regarding class certification and the scope of many
of the claims, and
•the attendant uncertainty of the various potential outcomes of such
proceedings, including where the Firm has made assumptions
concerning future rulings by the court or other adjudicator, or about
the behavior or incentives of adverse parties or regulatory
authorities, and those assumptions prove to be incorrect.
In addition, the outcome of a particular proceeding may be a result
which the Firm did not take into account in its estimate because the
Firm had deemed the likelihood of that outcome to be remote.
Accordingly, the Firm’s estimate of the aggregate range of reasonably
possible losses will change from time to time, and actual losses may
vary significantly. Set forth below are descriptions of the Firm’s material legal
proceedings.
American Depositary Receipts Pre-Release Inquiry. In December
2018, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. reached a settlement with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission regarding its inquiry into
activity relating to pre-released American Depositary Receipts.
Foreign Exchange Investigations and Litigation. The Firm previously
reported settlements with certain government authorities relating to its
foreign exchange (“FX”) sales and trading activities and controls
related to those activities. FX-related investigations and inquiries by
government authorities, including competition authorities, are ongoing,
and the Firm is cooperating with and working to resolve those matters.
In May 2015, the Firm pleaded guilty to a single violation of federal
antitrust law. In January 2017, the Firm was sentenced, with judgment
entered thereafter and a term of probation ending in January 2020. The
Department of Labor has granted the Firm a five-year exemption of
disqualification that allows the Firm and its affiliates to continue to
rely on the Qualified Professional Asset Manager exemption under the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”) until January
2023. The Firm will need to reapply in due course for a further
exemption to cover the remainder of the ten-year disqualification
period. Separately, in February 2017 the South Africa Competition
Commission referred its FX investigation of the Firm and other banks
to the South Africa Competition Tribunal, which is conducting civil
proceedings concerning that matter.
The Firm is also one of a number of foreign exchange dealers named
as defendants in a class action filed in the United States District Court
for the Southern District of New York by U.S.-based plaintiffs,
principally alleging violations of federal antitrust laws based on an
alleged conspiracy to manipulate foreign exchange rates (the “U.S.
class action”). In January 2015, the Firm entered into a settlement
agreement in the U.S. class action. Following this settlement, a number
of additional putative class actions were filed seeking damages for
persons who transacted FX futures and options on futures (the
“exchanged-based actions”), consumers who purchased foreign
currencies at allegedly inflated rates (the “consumer action”),
participants or beneficiaries of qualified ERISA plans (the “ERISA
actions”), and purported indirect purchasers of FX instruments (the
“indirect purchaser action”). Since then, the Firm has entered into a
revised settlement agreement to resolve the consolidated U.S. class
action, including the exchange-based actions. The Court granted final
approval of that settlement agreement in August 2018. Certain
members of the settlement class filed requests to the Court to be
excluded from the class, and certain of them filed a complaint against
the Firm and a number of other foreign exchange dealers in November
2018 (the “opt-out action”).
278  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
The District Court has dismissed one of the ERISA actions, and the
United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed that
dismissal in July 2018. The second ERISA action was voluntarily
dismissed with prejudice in November 2018. The indirect purchaser
action, the consumer action and the opt-out action remain pending in
the District Court.
General Motors Litigation. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. participated
in, and was the Administrative Agent on behalf of a syndicate of
lenders on, a $1.5 billion syndicated Term Loan facility (“Term Loan”)
for General Motors Corporation (“GM”). In July 2009, in connection
with the GM bankruptcy proceedings, the Official Committee of
Unsecured Creditors of Motors Liquidation Company (“Creditors
Committee”) filed a lawsuit against JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its
individual capacity and as Administrative Agent for other lenders on
the Term Loan, seeking to hold the underlying lien invalid based on the
filing of a UCC-3 termination statement relating to the Term Loan. In
January 2015, following several court proceedings, the United States
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed the Bankruptcy
Court’s dismissal of the Creditors Committee’s claim and remanded
the case to the Bankruptcy Court with instructions to enter partial
summary judgment for the Creditors Committee as to the termination
statement. The proceedings in the Bankruptcy Court thereafter
continued with respect to, among other things, additional defenses
asserted by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the value of additional
collateral on the Term Loan that was unaffected by the filing of the
termination statement at issue. In addition, certain Term Loan lenders
filed cross-claims in the Bankruptcy Court against JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A. seeking indemnification and asserting various claims. In
January 2019, the parties reached an agreement in principle to fully
resolve the litigation, including the cross-claims filed against the Firm.
The agreement is subject to definitive documentation and court
approval, and is not expected to have any material impact on the Firm.
The Bankruptcy Court has stayed all deadlines in the action to allow
the parties to finalize the settlement agreement for submission to the
Bankruptcy Court.
Interchange Litigation. A group of merchants and retail associations
filed a series of class action complaints alleging that Visa and
Mastercard, as well as certain banks, conspired to set the price of credit
and debit card interchange fees and enacted respective rules in
violation of antitrust laws. The parties settled the cases for a cash
payment, a temporary reduction of credit card interchange, and
modifications to certain credit card network rules. In December 2013,
the District Court granted final approval of the settlement.
A number of merchants appealed the settlement to the United States
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which, in June 2016, vacated
the District Court’s certification of the class action and reversed the
approval of the class settlement. In March 2017, the U.S. Supreme
Court declined petitions seeking review of the decision of the Court of Appeals. The case was remanded to the District Court for
further proceedings consistent with the appellate decision. The original
class action was divided into two separate actions, one seeking
primarily monetary relief and the other seeking primarily injunctive
relief. In September 2018, the parties to the class action seeking
monetary relief finalized an agreement which amends and supersedes
the prior settlement agreement, and the plaintiffs filed a motion
seeking preliminary approval of the modified settlement. This
settlement provides for the defendants to contribute an additional $900
million to the approximately $5.3 billion currently held in escrow from
the original settlement. In January 2019, the amended agreement was
preliminarily approved by the District Court, and formal notice of the
class settlement will proceed in accordance with the District Court’s
order. $600 million of the additional amount will be funded from the
litigation escrow account established under the Visa defendants’
Retrospective Responsibility Plan, and $300 million will be paid by
Mastercard and certain banks in accordance with an agreement among
themselves regarding their respective shares. In June 2018, Visa
deposited an additional $600 million into its litigation escrow account,
which in turn led to a corresponding change in the conversion rate of
Visa Class B to Class A shares. Of the Mastercard-related portion, the
Firm’s share is approximately $36 million. The class action seeking
primarily injunctive relief continues separately.
In addition, certain merchants have filed individual actions raising
similar allegations against Visa and Mastercard, as well as against the
Firm and other banks, and those actions are proceeding.
LIBOR and Other Benchmark Rate Investigations and Litigation.
JPMorgan Chase has received subpoenas and requests for documents
and, in some cases, interviews, from federal and state agencies and
entities, including the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
and various state attorneys general, as well as the European
Commission (“EC”), the Swiss Competition Commission (“ComCo”)
and other regulatory authorities and banking associations around the
world relating primarily to the process by which interest rates were
submitted to the British Bankers Association (“BBA”) in connection
with the setting of the BBA’s London Interbank Offered Rate
(“LIBOR”) for various currencies, principally in 2007 and 2008. Some
of the inquiries also relate to similar processes by which information
on rates was submitted to the European Banking Federation (“EBF”) in
connection with the setting of the EBF’s Euro Interbank Offered Rate
(“EURIBOR”). The Firm continues to cooperate with these
investigations to the extent that they are ongoing. ComCo’s
investigation relating to EURIBOR, to which the Firm and other banks
are subject, continues. In December 2016, the EC issued a decision
against the Firm and other banks finding an infringement of European
antitrust rules relating to EURIBOR. The Firm has filed an appeal of
that decision
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  279
Notes to consolidated financial statements
with the European General Court, and that appeal is pending.
In addition, the Firm has been named as a defendant along with other
banks in a series of individual and putative class actions related to
benchmarks filed in various United States District Courts, including
two putative class actions relating to U.S. dollar LIBOR during the
period that it was administered by ICE Benchmark Administration.
These actions have been filed, or consolidated for pre-trial purposes, in
the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.
In these actions, plaintiffs make varying allegations that in various
periods, starting in 2000 or later, defendants either individually or
collectively manipulated various benchmark rates by submitting rates
that were artificially low or high. Plaintiffs allege that they transacted
in loans, derivatives or other financial instruments whose values are
affected by changes in these rates and assert a variety of claims
including antitrust claims seeking treble damages. These matters are in
various stages of litigation.
The Firm has agreed to settle putative class actions related to
exchange-traded Eurodollar futures contracts, Swiss franc LIBOR,
EURIBOR, the Singapore Interbank Offered Rate, the Singapore Swap
Offer Rate and the Australian Bank Bill Swap Reference Rate. Those
settlements are all subject to further documentation and court approval.
In actions related to U.S. dollar LIBOR during the period that it was
administered by the BBA, the District Court dismissed certain claims,
including antitrust claims brought by some plaintiffs whom the District
Court found did not have standing to assert such claims, and permitted
antitrust claims, claims under the Commodity Exchange Act and
common law claims to proceed. The plaintiffs whose antitrust claims
were dismissed for lack of standing have filed an appeal. In February
2018, as to those actions which the Firm has not agreed to settle, the
District Court (i) granted class certification with respect to certain
antitrust claims related to bonds and interest rate swaps sold directly
by the defendants, (ii) denied class certification with respect to state
common law claims brought by the holders of those bonds and swaps
and (iii) denied class certification with respect to the putative class
action related to LIBOR-based loans held by plaintiff lending
institutions.
Municipal Derivatives Litigation. Several civil actions were
commenced against the Firm relating to certain Jefferson County,
Alabama (the “County”) warrant underwritings and swap transactions.
The actions generally alleged that the Firm made payments to certain
third parties in exchange for being chosen to underwrite more than
$3.0 billion in warrants issued by the County and to act as the
counterparty for certain swaps executed by the County. The County
subsequently filed for bankruptcy and in November 2013, the
Bankruptcy Court confirmed a Plan of Adjustment pursuant to which
the above-described actions against the Firm were released and
dismissed with prejudice. Certain sewer rate payers filed an appeal
challenging the confirmation of the Plan of Adjustment, and that appeal was dismissed
by the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. The
appellants have filed a petition seeking review by the Supreme Court
of the United States.
Precious Metals Investigations and Litigation. Various authorities,
including the Department of Justice’s Criminal Division, are
conducting investigations relating to trading practices in the precious
metals markets and related conduct. The Firm is responding to and
cooperating with these investigations. Several putative class action
complaints have been filed in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York against the Firm and certain current and
former employees, alleging a precious metals futures and options price
manipulation scheme in violation of the Commodity Exchange Act.
The Firm is also a defendant in a consolidated action filed in the
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York
alleging monopolization of silver futures in violation of the Sherman
Act.
Wendel. Since 2012, the French criminal authorities have been
investigating a series of transactions entered into by senior managers
of Wendel Investissement (“Wendel”) during the period from 2004
through 2007 to restructure their shareholdings in Wendel. JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A., Paris branch provided financing for the transactions
to a number of managers of Wendel in 2007. JPMorgan Chase has
cooperated with the investigation. The investigating judges issued an
ordonnance de renvoi in November 2016, referring JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A. to the French tribunal correctionnel for alleged complicity
in tax fraud. No date for trial has been set by the court. The Firm has
been successful in legal challenges made to the Court of Cassation,
France’s highest court, with respect to the criminal proceedings. In
January 2018, the Paris Court of Appeal issued a decision cancelling
the mise en examen of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. The Court of
Cassation ruled in September 2018 that a mise en examen is a
prerequisite for an ordonnance de renvoi and remanded the case to the
Court of Appeal to consider JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.’s application
for the annulment of the ordonnance de renvoi referring JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. to the French tribunal correctionnel. Any further
actions in the criminal proceedings are stayed pending the outcome of
that application. In addition, a number of the managers have
commenced civil proceedings against JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
The claims are separate, involve different allegations and are at various
stages of proceedings.
* * *
In addition to the various legal proceedings discussed above,
JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries are named as defendants or are
otherwise involved in a substantial number of other legal proceedings.
The Firm believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted
against it in its currently outstanding legal proceedings and it intends
to defend itself vigorously. Additional legal proceedings may be
initiated from time to time in the future.
280  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
The Firm has established reserves for several hundred of its currently
outstanding legal proceedings. In accordance with the provisions of
U.S. GAAP for contingencies, the Firm accrues for a litigation-related
liability when it is probable that such a liability has been incurred and
the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Firm evaluates
its outstanding legal proceedings each quarter to assess its litigation
reserves, and makes adjustments in such reserves, upwards or
downward, as appropriate, based on management’s best judgment after
consultation with counsel. During the year ended December 31, 2018,
the Firm’s legal expense was $72 million, and for the years ended
December 31, 2017 and 2016, it was a benefit of $(35) million and
$(317) million, respectively. There is no assurance that the Firm’s
litigation reserves will not need to be adjusted in the future.
In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of legal
proceedings, particularly where the claimants seek very large or
indeterminate damages, or where the matters present novel legal
theories, involve a large number of parties or are in early stages of
discovery, the Firm cannot state with confidence what will be the
eventual outcomes of the currently pending matters, the timing of their
ultimate resolution or the eventual losses, fines, penalties or
consequences related to those matters. JPMorgan Chase believes,
based upon its current knowledge and after consultation with counsel,
consideration of the material legal proceedings described above and
after taking into account its current litigation reserves and its estimated
aggregate range of possible losses, that the other legal proceedings
currently pending against it should not have a material adverse effect
on the Firm’s consolidated financial condition. The Firm notes,
however, that in light of the uncertainties involved in such
proceedings, there is no assurance that the ultimate resolution of these
matters will not significantly exceed the reserves it has currently
accrued or that a matter will not have material reputational
consequences. As a result, the outcome of a particular matter may be
material to JPMorgan Chase’s operating results for a particular period,
depending on, among other factors, the size of the loss or liability
imposed and the level of JPMorgan Chase’s income for that period.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  281
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Note 30 – International operations
The following table presents income statement and balance sheet-
related information for JPMorgan Chase by major international
geographic area. The Firm defines international activities for purposes
of this footnote presentation as business transactions that involve
clients residing outside of the U.S., and the information presented
below is based predominantly on the domicile of the client, the
location from which the client relationship is managed, or the location
of the trading desk. However, many of the Firm’s U.S. operations serve
international businesses. As the Firm’s operations are highly integrated, estimates and
subjective assumptions have been made to apportion revenue and
expense between U.S. and international operations. These estimates
and assumptions are consistent with the allocations used for the Firm’s
segment reporting as set forth in Note 31.
The Firm’s long-lived assets for the periods presented are not
considered by management to be significant in relation to total assets.
The majority of the Firm’s long-lived assets are located in the U.S.
As of or for the year ended December 31,
(in millions) Revenue(b)(c) Expense(c)(d) Income before
income tax
expense  Net income  Total assets 
2018         
Europe/Middle East/Africa $ 16,181 $ 9,953 $ 6,228 $ 4,444 $ 423,835(e) 
Asia/Pacific 7,119 4,866 2,253 1,593 171,242 
Latin America/Caribbean 2,435 1,413 1,022 718 46,560 
Total international 25,735 16,232 9,503 6,755 641,637 
North America(a) 83,294 52,033 31,261 25,719 1,980,895 
Total $ 109,029 $ 68,265 $ 40,764 $ 32,474 $ 2,622,532 
2017         
Europe/Middle East/Africa $ 15,120 $ 9,347 $ 5,773 $ 4,007 $ 407,145(e) 
Asia/Pacific 6,028 4,500 1,528 852 163,718 
Latin America/Caribbean 1,994 1,523 471 299 44,569 
Total international 23,142 15,370 7,772 5,158 615,432 
North America(a) 77,563 49,435 28,128 19,283 1,918,168 
Total $ 100,705 $ 64,805 $ 35,900 $ 24,441 $ 2,533,600 
2016         
Europe/Middle East/Africa $ 14,418 $ 9,126 $ 5,292 $ 3,783 $ 394,134(e) 
Asia/Pacific 6,313 4,414 1,899 1,212 156,946 
Latin America/Caribbean 1,959 1,632 327 208 42,971 
Total international 22,690 15,172 7,518 5,203 594,051 
North America(a) 73,879 46,861 27,018 19,530 1,896,921 
Total $ 96,569 $ 62,033 $ 34,536 $ 24,733 $ 2,490,972 
(a)Substantially reflects the U.S.
(b)Revenue is composed of net interest income and noninterest revenue.
(c)Effective January 1, 2018, the Firm adopted the revenue recognition guidance. The revenue recognition guidance was applied retrospectively and, accordingly, prior period amounts
were revised. For additional information, refer to Note 1.
(d)Expense is composed of noninterest expense and the provision for credit losses.
(e)Total assets for the U.K. were approximately $296 billion, $309 billion, and $310 billion at December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
282  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Note 31 – Business segments
The Firm is managed on a line of business basis. There are four major
reportable business segments – Consumer & Community Banking,
Corporate & Investment Bank, Commercial Banking and Asset &
Wealth Management. In addition, there is a Corporate segment. The
business segments are determined based on the products and services
provided, or the type of customer served, and they reflect the manner
in which financial information is currently evaluated by the Firm’s
Operating Committee. Segment results are presented on a managed
basis. For a further discussion concerning JPMorgan Chase’s business
segments, refer to Segment results of this footnote.
The following is a description of each of the Firm’s business segments,
and the products and services they provide to their respective client
bases.
Consumer & Community Banking
CCB offers services to consumers and businesses through bank
branches, ATMs, digital (including online and mobile) and telephone
banking. CCB is organized into Consumer & Business Banking
(including Consumer Banking/Chase Wealth Management and
Business Banking), Home Lending (including Home Lending
Production, Home Lending Servicing and Real Estate Portfolios) and
Card, Merchant Services & Auto. Consumer & Business Banking
offers deposit and investment products and services to consumers, and
lending, deposit, and cash management and payment solutions to small
businesses. Home Lending includes mortgage origination and
servicing activities, as well as portfolios consisting of residential
mortgages and home equity loans. Card, Merchant Services & Auto
issues credit cards to consumers and small businesses, offers payment
processing services to merchants, and originates and services auto
loans and leases.
Corporate & Investment Bank
The CIB, which consists of Banking and Markets & Investor Services,
offers a broad suite of investment banking, market-making, prime
brokerage, and treasury and securities products and services to a global
client base of corporations, investors, financial institutions,
government and municipal entities. Banking offers a full range of
investment banking products and services in all major capital markets,
including advising on corporate strategy and structure, capital-raising
in equity and debt markets, as well as loan origination and syndication.
Banking also includes Treasury Services, which provides transaction
services, consisting of cash management and liquidity solutions.
Markets & Investor Services is a global market- maker in cash securities and derivative instruments, and also offers
sophisticated risk management solutions, prime brokerage, and
research. Markets & Investor Services also includes Securities
Services, a leading global custodian which provides custody, fund
accounting and administration, and securities lending products
principally for asset managers, insurance companies and public and
private investment funds.
Commercial Banking
CB delivers extensive industry knowledge, local expertise and
dedicated service to U.S. and U.S. multinational clients, including
corporations, municipalities, financial institutions and nonprofit
entities with annual revenue generally ranging from $20 million to $2
billion. In addition, CB provides financing to real estate investors and
owners. Partnering with the Firm’s other businesses, CB provides
comprehensive financial solutions, including lending, treasury
services, investment banking and asset management to meet its clients’
domestic and international financial needs.
Asset & Wealth Management
AWM, with client assets of $2.7 trillion, is a global leader in
investment and wealth management. AWM clients include institutions,
high-net-worth individuals and retail investors in many major markets
throughout the world. AWM offers investment management across
most major asset classes including equities, fixed income, alternatives
and money market funds. AWM also offers multi-asset investment
management, providing solutions for a broad range of clients’
investment needs. For Wealth Management clients, AWM also
provides retirement products and services, brokerage and banking
services including trusts and estates, loans, mortgages and deposits.
The majority of AWM’s client assets are in actively managed
portfolios.
Corporate
The Corporate segment consists of Treasury and Chief Investment
Office and Other Corporate, which includes corporate staff functions
and expense that is centrally managed. Treasury and CIO is
predominantly responsible for measuring, monitoring, reporting and
managing the Firm’s liquidity, funding, capital, structural interest rate
and foreign exchange risks. The major Other Corporate functions
include Real Estate, Technology, Legal, Corporate Finance, Human
Resources, Internal Audit, Risk Management, Compliance, Control
Management, Corporate Responsibility and various Other Corporate
groups.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  283
Notes to consolidated financial statements
Segment results
The following table provides a summary of the Firm’s segment results
as of or for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, on a
managed basis. The Firm’s definition of managed basis starts with the
reported U.S. GAAP results and includes certain reclassifications to
present total net revenue for the Firm (and each of the reportable
business segments) on an FTE basis. Accordingly, revenue from
investments that receive tax credits and tax-exempt securities is
presented in the managed results on a basis comparable to taxable
investments and securities. This allows management to assess the
comparability of revenue from year-to-year arising from both taxable
and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income tax impact related
to tax-exempt items is recorded within income tax expense/(benefit).
These adjustments have no impact on net income as reported by the
Firm as a whole or by the lines of business. Each business segment is allocated capital by taking into consideration
capital levels of similarly rated peers and applicable regulatory capital
requirements. ROE is measured and internal targets for expected
returns are established as key measures of a business segment’s
performance.
The Firm’s allocation methodology incorporates Basel III Standardized
RWA, Basel III Advanced RWA, leverage, the GSIB surcharge, and a
simulation of capital in a severe stress environment. On at least an
annual basis, the assumptions and methodologies used in capital
allocation are assessed and as a result, the capital allocated to lines of
business may change.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Firm adopted several new accounting standards. Certain of the new accounting standards were applied retrospectively
and, accordingly, prior period amounts were revised. For additional information, refer to Note 1.
Net income in 2018 for each of the business segments reflects the favorable impact of the reduction in the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate as a
result of the TCJA.
Segment results and reconciliation
(Table continued on next page)         
As of or for the year
ended
December 31,
(in millions, except
ratios)Consumer & Community Banking Corporate & Investment Bank Commercial Banking  Asset & Wealth Management
2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
Noninterest revenue $ 16,260 $ 14,710 $ 15,255  $ 26,968 $24,539 $ 24,449 $ 2,343 $ 2,522 $ 2,320  $ 10,539 $ 10,456 $ 9,789
Net interest income 35,819 31,775 29,660  9,480 10,118 10,891 6,716 6,083 5,133  3,537 3,379 3,033
Total net revenue 52,079 46,485 44,915  36,448 34,657 35,340 9,059 8,605 7,453  14,076 13,835 12,822
Provision for credit losses 4,753 5,572 4,494  (60) (45) 563 129 (276) 282 53 39 26
Noninterest expense 27,835 26,062 24,905  20,918 19,407 19,116 3,386 3,327 2,934  10,353 10,218 9,255
Income/(loss) before
income tax
expense/(benefit) 19,491 14,851 15,516  15,590 15,295 15,661 5,544 5,554 4,237  3,670 3,578 3,541
Income tax
expense/(benefit) 4,639 5,456 5,802  3,817 4,482 4,846 1,307 2,015 1,580  817 1,241 1,290
Net income/(loss) $ 14,852 $ 9,395 $ 9,714  $ 11,773 $10,813 $ 10,815 $ 4,237 $ 3,539 $ 2,657  $ 2,853 $ 2,337 $ 2,251
Average equity $ 51,000 $ 51,000 $ 51,000  $ 70,000 $70,000 $ 64,000 $ 20,000 $ 20,000 $ 16,000  $ 9,000 $ 9,000 $ 9,000
Total assets 557,441 552,601 535,310  903,051 826,384 803,51 1 220,229 221,228 214,341  170,024 151,909 138,384
Return on equity 28% 17% 18% 16% 14% 16% 20% 17% 16% 31% 25% 24%
Overhead ratio 53 56 55 57 56 54 37 39 39 74 74 72
284  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
(Table continued from previous page)      
As of or for the year ended
December 31,
(in millions, except ratios) Corporate  Reconciling Items(a) Total
 2018 2017 2016  2018 2017  2016 2018 2017 2016
Noninterest revenue  $ (263)$ 1,085 $ 938 $ (1,877 )$ (2,704 )(b) $ (2,265 ) $ 53,970 $ 50,608 $ 50,486
Net interest income  135 55 (1,425 ) (628) (1,313 ) (1,209 ) 55,059 50,097 46,083
Total net revenue  (128) 1,140 (487) (2,505 ) (4,017 ) (3,474 ) 109,029 100,705 96,569
Provision for credit losses  (4) — (4) — — — 4,871 5,290 5,361
Noninterest expense  902 501 462 — — — 63,394 59,515 56,672
Income/(loss) before income
tax expense/(benefit)  (1,026 ) 639 (945) (2,505 ) (4,017 ) (3,474 ) 40,764 35,900 34,536
Income tax expense/(benefit)  215 2,282 (241) (2,505 ) (4,017 )(b) (3,474 ) 8,290 11,459 9,803
Net income/(loss)  $ (1,241 )$ (1,643 )$ (704) $ — $ — $ — $ 32,474 $ 24,441 $ 24,733
Average equity  $ 79,222 $ 80,350 $ 84,631  $ — $ — $ — $ 229,222 $ 230,350 $ 224,631
Total assets  771,787 781,478 799,426  NA NA NA 2,622,532 2,533,600 2,490,972
Return on equity  NM NM NM NM NM NM 13% 10% 10%
Overhead ratio  NM NM NM NM NM NM 58 59 59
(a)Segment results on a managed basis reflect revenue on a FTE basis with the corresponding income tax impact recorded within income tax expense/(benefit). These adjustments are eliminated in reconciling
items to arrive at the Firm’s reported U.S. GAAP results.
(b)Included $375 million related to tax-oriented investments as a result of the enactment of the TCJA.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  285
Note 32 – Parent Company
The following tables present Parent Company-only financial statements.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Parent Company adopted several new
accounting standards. Certain of the new accounting standards were
applied retrospectively and, accordingly, prior period amounts were
revised. For additional information, refer to Note 1.
Statements of income and comprehensive income(a)
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2018  2017  2016
Income   
Dividends from subsidiaries and
affiliates:   
Bank and bank holding company $ 32,501  $ 13,000  $ 10,000
Non-bank (b) 2 540 3,873
Interest income from subsidiaries 216 72 794
Other interest income — 41 207
Other income from subsidiaries:   
Bank and bank holding company 515 1,553  852
Non-bank (444) (88) 1,165
Other income 888 (623) (846)
Total income 33,678  14,495  16,045
Expense   
Interest expense to subsidiaries and
affiliates (b) 2,291  400 105
Other interest expense 4,581  5,202  4,413
Noninterest expense 1,793  (1,897 ) 1,643
Total expense 8,665  3,705  6,161
Income before income tax benefit and
undistributed net income of
subsidiaries 25,013  10,790  9,884
Income tax benefit 1,838  1,007  876
Equity in undistributed net income of
subsidiaries 5,623  12,644  13,973
Net income $ 32,474  $ 24,441  $ 24,733
Other comprehensive income, net (1,476 ) 1,056  (1,521 )
Compr ehensive income $ 30,998  $ 25,497  $ 23,212
Balance sheets(a)   
December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017
Assets   
Cash and due from banks $ 55 $ 163
Deposits with banking subsidiaries 5,315 5,338
Trading assets 3,304 4,773
Advances to, and receivables from, subsidiaries:   
Bank and bank holding company 3,334 2,106
Non-bank 74 82
Investments (at equity) in subsidiaries and af filiates:   
Bank and bank holding company 449,628 451,713
Non-bank (b) 1,077 422
Other assets 10,478 10,426
Total assets $ 473,265 $ 475,023
Liabilities and stockholders’  equity   
Borrowings from, and payables to, subsidiaries and
affiliates (b) $ 20,017 $ 23,426
Short-term borrowings 2,672 3,350
Other liabilities 8,821 8,302
Long-term debt (c)(d) 185,240 184,252
Total liabilities (d) 216,750 219,330
Total stockholders’  equity 256,515 255,693
Total liabilities and stockholders’  equity $ 473,265 $ 475,023 
Statements of cash flows(a)  
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)  2018  2017 2016
Operating activities     
Net income  $ 32,474  $ 24,441 $ 24,733
Less: Net income of subsidiaries and
affiliates (b)  38,125  26,185 27,846
Parent company net loss  (5,651 ) (1,744 ) (3,113)
Cash dividends from subsidiaries and
affiliates (b)  32,501  13,540 13,873
Other operating adjustments  (4,400 ) 4,635 (18,166 )
Net cash pr ovided by/(used in)
operating activities  22,450  16,431 (7,406 )
Investing activities     
Net change in:     
Proceeds from paydowns and maturities
from available-for -sale securities
 Securities  — — 353
Other changes in loans, net  — 78 1,793
Advances to and investments in
subsidiaries and af filiates, net  8,036  (280) (51,967 )
All other investing activities, net  63 49 114
Net cash pr ovided by/(used in)
investing activities  8,099  (153) (49,707 )
Financing activities     
Net change in:     
Borrowings from subsidiaries and
affiliates (b)  (2,273 ) 13,862 2,957
Short-term borrowings  (678) (481) 109
Proceeds from long-term borrowings  25,845  25,855 41,498
Payments of long-term borrowings  (21,956 ) (29,812 ) (29,298 )
Proceeds from issuance of preferred
stock  1,696  1,258 —
Redemption of preferred stock  (1,696 ) (1,258 ) —
Treasury stock repurchased  (19,983 ) (15,410 ) (9,082 )
Dividends paid  (10,109 ) (8,993 ) (8,476 )
All other financing activities, net  (1,526 ) (1,361 ) (905)
Net cash used in financing activities  (30,680 ) (16,340 ) (3,197 )
Net decrease in cash and due from
banks and deposits with banking
subsidiaries  (131) (62) (60,310 )
Cash and due from banks and deposits
with banking subsidiaries at the
beginning of the year  5,501  5,563 65,873
Cash and due fr om banks and
deposits with banking subsidiaries
at the end of the year  $ 5,370  $ 5,501 $ 5,563
Cash interest paid  $ 6,911 $ 5,426 $ 4,550
Cash income taxes paid, net (e)  1,782  1,775 1,053
(a)In 2016, in connection with the Firm’s 2016 Resolution Submission, the Parent Company
established the IHC, and contributed substantially all of its direct subsidiaries (totaling $55.4
billion) other than JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as well as most of its other assets (totaling
$160.5 billion) and intercompany indebtedness to the IHC. Total noncash assets contributed
were $62.3 billion. In 2017, the Parent Company transferred $16.2 billion of noncash assets to
the IHC to complete the contributions to the IHC.
(b)Affiliates include trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities (“issuer trusts”). For further
discussion on these issuer trusts, refer to Note 19.
(c)At December 31, 2018, long-term debt that contractually matures in 2019 through 2023 totaled
13.1 billion, $22.1 billion, $20.3 billion, $12.8 billion, and $16.2 billion, respectively.
(d)For information regarding the Parent Company’s guarantees of its subsidiaries’ obligations, refer
to Notes 19 and 27.
(e)Represents payments, net of refunds, made by the Parent Company to various taxing authorities
and includes taxes paid on behalf of certain of its subsidiaries that are subsequently reimbursed.
The reimbursements were $1.2 billion, $4.1 billion, and $3.0 billion for the years ended
December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively.
286  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Supplementary information
Selected quarterly financial data (unaudited)
As of or for the period ended 2018  2017  
(in millions, except per share, ratio, headcount
data and where otherwise noted) 4th quarter 3rd quarter 2nd quarter 1st quarter 4th quarter 3rd quarter 2nd quarter 1st quarter 
Selected income statement data       
Total net revenue $ 26,109 $ 27,260 $ 27,753 $ 27,907 $ 24,457 $ 25,578$ 25,731$ 24,939 
Total noninterest expense 15,720 15,623 15,971 16,080 14,895 14,570 14,767 15,283 
Pre-provision profit 10,389 11,637 11,782 11,827 9,562 11,008 10,964 9,656 
Provision for credit losses 1,548 948 1,210 1,165 1,308 1,452 1,215 1,315 
Income before income tax expense 8,841 10,689 10,572 10,662 8,254 9,556 9,749 8,341 
Income tax expense 1,775 2,309 2,256 1,950 4,022 2,824 2,720 1,893 
Net income $ 7,066 $ 8,380 $ 8,316 $ 8,712 $ 4,232 (g) $ 6,732$ 7,029$ 6,448 
Earnings per share data       
Net income: Basic $ 1.99 $ 2.35 $ 2.31 $ 2.38 $ 1.08 $ 1.77$ 1.83$ 1.66 
  Diluted 1.98 2.34 2.29 2.37 1.07 1.76 1.82 1.65 
Average shares: Basic 3,335.8 3,376.1 3,415.2 3,458.3 3,489.7 3,534.7 3,574.1 3,601.7 
Diluted 3,347.3 3,394.3 3,434.7 3,479.5 3,512.2 3,559.6 3,599.0 3,630.4 
Market and per common share data       
Market capitalization $ 319,780 $ 375,239 $ 350,204 $ 374,423 $ 366,301 $ 331,393$ 321,633$ 312,078 
Common shares at period-end 3,275.8 3,325.4 3,360.9 3,404.8 3,425.3 3,469.7 3,519.0 3,552.8 
Book value per share 70.35 69.52 68.85 67.59 67.04 66.95 66.05 64.68 
TBVPS(a) 56.33 55.68 55.14 54.05 53.56 54.03 53.29 52.04 
Cash dividends declared per share 0.80 0.80 0.56 0.56 0.56 0.56 0.50 0.50 
Selected ratios and metrics       
ROE(b) 12% 14% 14% 15% 7% 11% 12% 11% 
ROTCE(a)(b) 14 17 17 19 8 13 14 13 
ROA(b) 1.06 1.28 1.28 1.37 0.66 1.04 1.10 1.03 
Overhead ratio 60 57 58 58 61 57 57 61 
Loans-to-deposits ratio 67 65 65 63 64 63 63 63 
LCR (average)(c) 113 115 115 115 119 120 115 N/A 
CET1 capital ratio(d) 12.0 12.0 12.0 11.8 12.2 12.5 12.5 12.4 
Tier 1 capital ratio(d) 13.7 13.6 13.6 13.5 13.9 14.1 14.2 14.1 
Total capital ratio(d) 15.5 15.4 15.5 15.3 15.9 16.1 16.0 15.6 
Tier 1 leverage ratio(d) 8.1 8.2 8.2 8.2 8.3 8.4 8.5 8.4 
SLR(e) 6.4 6.5 6.5 6.5 6.5 6.6 6.7 6.6 
Selected balance sheet data (period-end)       
Trading assets $ 413,714 $ 419,827 $ 418,799 $ 412,282 $ 381,844 $ 420,418$ 407,064$ 402,513 
Investment Securities 261,828 231,398 233,015 238,188 $ 249,958 263,288 263,458 281,850 
Loans 984,554 954,318 948,414 934,424 $ 930,697 913,761 908,767 895,974 
Core loans 931,856 899,006 889,433 870,536 863,683 843,432 834,935 812,119 
Average core loans 907,271 894,279 877,640 861,089 850,166 837,522 824,583 805,382 
Total assets 2,622,532 2,615,183 2,590,050 2,609,785 2,533,600 2,563,074 2,563,174 2,546,290 
Deposits 1,470,666 1,458,762 1,452,122 1,486,961 1,443,982 1,439,027 1,439,473 1,422,999 
Long-term debt 282,031 270,124 273,114 274,449 284,080 288,582 292,973 289,492 
Common stockholders’ equity 230,447 231,192 231,390 230,133 229,625 232,314 232,415 229,795 
Total stockholders’ equity 256,515 258,956 257,458 256,201 255,693 258,382 258,483 255,863 
Headcount 256,105 255,313 252,942 253,707 252,539 251,503 249,257 246,345 
Credit quality metrics       
Allowance for credit losses $ 14,500 $ 14,225 $ 14,367 $ 14,482 $ 14,672 $ 14,648$ 14,480$ 14,490 
Allowance for loan losses to total retained loans 1.39% 1.39% 1.41% 1.44% 1.47% 1.49% 1.49% 1.52% 
Allowance for loan losses to retained loans
excluding purchased credit-impaired loans(f) 1.23 1.23 1.22 1.25 1.27 1.29 1.28 1.31 
Nonperforming assets $ 5,190 $ 5,034 $ 5,767 $ 6,364 $ 6,426 $ 6,154$ 6,432$ 6,826 
Net charge-offs 1,236 1,033 1,252 1,335 1,264 1,265 1,204 1,654 (h) 
Net charge-off rate 0.52% 0.43% 0.54% 0.59% 0.55% 0.56% 0.54% 0.76%(h) 
Effective January 1, 2018, the Firm adopted several new accounting standards. Certain of the new accounting standards were applied retrospectively and, accordingly, prior period amounts were
revised. For additional information, refer to Note 1.
(a)TBVPS and ROTCE are non-GAAP financial measures. For further discussion of these measures, refer to Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm’s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and
Key Performance Measures on pages 57-59.
(b)Quarterly ratios are based upon annualized amounts.
(c)The percentage represents the Firm’s reported average LCR per the U.S. LCR public disclosure requirements, which became effective April 1, 2017.    
(d)Ratios presented are calculated under the Basel III Transitional rules and for the capital ratios represent the lower of the Standardized or Advanced approach. As of December 31, 2018, and
September 30, 2018, the Firm’s capital ratios were equivalent whether calculated on a transitional or fully phased-in basis. Refer to Capital Risk Management on pages 85-94 for additional
information on Basel III.
(e)Effective January 1, 2018, the SLR was fully phased-in under Basel III. The SLR is defined as Tier 1 capital divided by the Firm’s total leverage exposure. Ratios prior to March 31, 2018 were
calculated under the Basel III Transitional rules.
(f)Excludes the impact of residential real estate PCI loans, a non-GAAP financial measure. For further discussion of these measures, refer to Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm’s Use of
Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Key Performance Measures on pages 57-59, and the Allowance for credit losses on pages 120–122.
(g)The Firm’s results for the three months ended December 31, 2017, included a $2.4 billion decrease to net income as a result of the enactment of the TCJA. For additional information related to the
impact of the TCJA, refer to Note 24.
(h)Excluding net charge-offs of $467 million related to the student loan portfolio sale, the net charge-off rates for the three months ended March 31, 2017 would have been 0.54%.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  287
Distribution of assets, liabilities and stockholders’  equity; inter est rates and inter est differ entials
Consolidated average balance sheet, interest and rates
Provided below is a summary of JPMorgan Chase’s consolidated
average balances, interest rates and interest differentials on a taxable-
equivalent basis for the years 2016 through 2018. Income computed on
a taxable-equivalent basis is the income reported in the Consolidated
statements of income, adjusted to present interest income and average rates earned on assets exempt from income taxes (i.e.
federal taxes) on a basis comparable with other taxable investments.
The incremental tax rate used for calculating the taxable-equivalent
adjustment was approximately 24%, 37% and 38% in 2018, 2017 and
2016, respectively.
(Table continued on next page)      
(Unaudited) 2018
Year ended December 31,
(Taxable-equivalent interest and rates; in millions, except rates)Average
balance  Interest (g)Average
rate
Assets      
Deposits with banks $ 405,514  $ 5,907 1.46% 
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements 217,150  3,819 1.76  
Securities borrowed 115,082  728 0.63  
Trading assets – debt instruments 261,051  8,763 3.36  
Taxable securities 194,232  5,653 2.91  
Non-taxable securities (a) 42,456  1,987 4.68  
Total investment securities 236,688  7,640 3.23 (i) 
Loans 944,885  47,796 (h) 5.06  
All other interest-earning assets (b) 48,818  3,417 7.00  
Total inter est-earning assets 2,229,188  78,070 3.50  
Allowance for loan losses (13,269 )    
Cash and due from banks 21,694     
Trading assets – equity instruments 101,872     
Trading assets – derivative receivables 60,734     
Goodwill, MSRs and other intangible assets 54,669     
Other assets 154,010     
Total assets $ 2,608,898     
Liabilities      
Interest-bearing deposits $ 1,060,605  $ 5,973 0.56% 
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements 189,282  3,066 1.62  
Short-term borrowings (c) 63,523  1,144 1.80  
Trading liabilities – debt and all other interest-bearing liabilities (d)(e) 178,161  3,729 2.09  
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs 21,079  493 2.34  
Long-term debt 276,414  7,978 2.89  
Total inter est-bearing liabilities 1,789,064  22,383 1.25  
Noninterest-bearing deposits 395,856     
Trading liabilities – equity instruments (e) 34,295     
Trading liabilities – derivative payables 43,075     
All other liabilities, including the allowance for lending-related commitments 91,137     
Total liabilities 2,353,427     
Stockholders’  equity      
Preferred stock 26,249     
Common stockholders’  equity 229,222     
Total stockholders’  equity 255,471 (f)    
Total liabilities and stockholders’  equity $ 2,608,898     
Interest rate spread    2.25% 
Net interest income and net yield on interest-earning assets   $ 55,687 2.50  
Effective January 1, 2018, the Firm adopted several new accounting standards. Certain of the new accounting standards were applied retrospectively and, accordingly, prior period amounts were revised. For
additional information, refer to Note 1.
(a)Represents securities that are tax-exempt for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
(b)Includes held-for-investment margin loans, which are classified in accrued interest and accounts receivable, and all other interest-earning assets, which are classified in other assets on the Consolidated
balance sheets.
(c)Includes commercial paper.
(d)Other interest-bearing liabilities include brokerage customer payables.
(e)The combined balance of trading liabilities – debt and equity instruments were $107.0 billion, $90.7 billion and $92.8 billion for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
(f)The ratio of average stockholders’ equity to average assets was 9.8% for 2018, 10.0% for 2017, and 10.2% for 2016. The return on average stockholders’ equity, based on net income, was 12.7% for 2018,
9.5% for 2017, and 9.9% for 2016.
(g)Interest includes the effect of related hedging derivatives. Taxable-equivalent amounts are used where applicable.
(h)Fees and commissions on loans included in loan interest amounted to $1.2 billion in 2018, $1.0 billion in 2017, and $808 million in 2016.
(i)The annualized rate for securities based on amortized cost was 3.25% in 2018, 3.13% in 2017, and 2.99% in 2016, and does not give effect to changes in fair value that are reflected in AOCI.
(j)Negative interest income and yield is related to client-driven demand for certain securities combined with the impact of low interest rates; this is matched book activity and the negative interest expense on
the corresponding securities loaned is recognized in interest expense and reported within trading liabilities – debt and all other interest-bearing liabilities.
288  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Within the Consolidated average balance sheets, interest and rates summary, the principal amounts of nonaccrual loans have been included in the
average loan balances used to determine the average interest rate earned on loans. For additional information on nonaccrual loans, including
interest accrued, refer to Note 12.
(Table continued from previous page)        
2017  2016  
Average
balance Interest (g)  Average
rate  Average
balance  Interest (g)  Average
rate  
        
$ 439,663 $ 4,238  0.96%  $ 393,599  $ 1,879  0.48% 
191,820 2,327  1.21  205,367  2,265  1.10  
95,324 (37)(j) (0.04 )  102,964  (332)(j) (0.32 ) 
237,206 7,714  3.25  215,565  7,373  3.42  
223,592 5,534  2.48  235,21 1 5,538  2.35  
45,086 2,769  6.14  44,176  2,662  6.03  
268,678 8,303  3.09 (i)  279,387  8,200  2.94 (i) 
906,397 41,296 (h) 4.56  866,378  36,866 (h) 4.26  
41,504 1,844  4.44  38,344  859 2.24  
2,180,592 65,685  3.01  2,101,604  57,110 2.72  
(13,453 )   (13,965 )    
20,432   18,705     
115,913   95,528     
59,588   70,897     
53,999   53,752     
138,991   135,098     
$ 2,556,062   $ 2,461,619     
        
$ 1,013,221 $ 2,857  0.28%  $ 925,270  $ 1,356  0.15% 
187,386 1,611 0.86  178,720  1,089  0.61  
46,532 481 1.03  36,140  203 0.56  
171,814 2,070  1.21  177,765  1,102  0.62  
32,457 503 1.55  40,180  504 1.25  
291,489 6,753  2.32  295,573  5,564  1.88  
1,742,899 14,275  0.82  1,653,648  9,818  0.59  
404,165   402,698     
21,022   20,737     
44,122   55,927     
87,292   77,910     
2,299,500   2,210,920     
        
26,212   26,068     
230,350   224,631     
256,562 (f)   250,699 (f)    
$ 2,556,062   $ 2,461,619     
  2.19%     2.13% 
 $ 51,410  2.36    $ 47,292  2.25  
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  289
Inter est rates and inter est differ ential analysis of net inter est income – U.S. and non-U.S.
Presented below is a summary of interest rates and interest differentials
segregated between U.S. and non-U.S. operations for the years 2016
through 2018. The segregation of U.S. and non-U.S. components is
based on the location of the office recording the transaction. Intercompany
funding generally consists of dollar-denominated deposits originated in
various locations that are centrally managed by Treasury and CIO.
(Table continued on next page)   
 2018
(Unaudited)
Year ended December 31,
(Taxable-equivalent interest and rates; in millions, except rates) Average balance Interest  Average rate
Interest-earning assets   
Deposits with banks:   
U.S. $ 305,117$ 5,703 1.87%
Non-U.S. 100,397 204 0.20
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements:   
U.S. 102,144 2,427 2.38
Non-U.S. 115,006 1,392 1.21
Securities borrowed:   
U.S. 77,027 640 0.83
Non-U.S. 38,055 88 0.23
Trading assets – debt instruments:   
U.S. 141,134 5,068 3.59
Non-U.S. 119,917 3,695 3.08
Investment securities:   
U.S. 200,883 6,943 3.46
Non-U.S. 35,805 697 1.95
Loans:   
U.S. 864,149 45,395 5.25
Non-U.S. 80,736 2,401 2.97
All other interest-earning assets, predominantly U.S. 48,818 3,417 7.00
Total interest-earning assets 2,229,188 78,070 3.50
Interest-bearing liabilities   
Interest-bearing deposits:   
U.S. 816,305 4,562 0.56
Non-U.S. 244,300 1,411 0.58
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements:   
U.S. 117,754 2,562 2.18
Non-U.S. 71,528 504 0.70
Trading liabilities – debt, short-term and all other interest-bearing liabilities:(a)   
U.S. 150,694 3,389 2.25
Non-U.S. 90,990 1,484 1.63
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs, predominantly U.S. 21,079 493 2.34
Long-term debt:   
U.S. 256,220 7,954 3.10
Non-U.S. 20,194 24 0.12
Intercompany funding:   
U.S. (51,933) (746) —
Non-U.S. 51,933 746 —
Total interest-bearing liabilities 1,789,064 22,383 1.25
Noninterest-bearing liabilities(b) 440,124  
Total investable funds $ 2,229,188$ 22,383 1.00%
Net interest income and net yield:  $ 55,687 2.50%
U.S.  50,236 2.91
Non-U.S.  5,451 1.09
Percentage of total assets and liabilities attributable to non-U.S. operations:   
Assets   24.7
Liabilities   22.3
Effective January 1, 2018, the Firm adopted several new accounting standards. Certain of the new accounting standards were applied retrospectively and, accordingly, prior period amounts were revised. For
additional information, refer to Note 1.
(a)Includes commercial paper .
(b)Represents the amount of noninterest-bearing liabilities funding interest-earning assets.
(c)Negative interest income and yield is related to client-driven demand for certain securities combined with the impact of low interest rates; this is matched book activity and the negative interest
expense on the corresponding securities loaned is recognized in interest expense and reported within trading liabilities – debt, short-term and all other interest-bearing liabilities.
290  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
For further information, refer to the “Net interest income” discussion in Consolidated Results of Operations on pages 48–51.
(Table continued from previous page)       
2017  2016  
Average balance Interest  Average rate   Average balance Interest  Average rate  
        
        
$ 366,814$ 4,093 1.12 %  $ 329,498$ 1,707 0.52 % 
72,849 145 0.20  64,101 172 0.27 
        
90,879 1,360 1.50  112,901 1,166 1.03 
100,941 967 0.96  92,466 1,099 1.19 
        
68,110 (66)(c) (0.10)  73,297 (341)(c) (0.46) 
27,214 29 0.11  29,667 9 0.03 
        
128,293 4,186 3.26  116,211 3,825 3.29 
108,913 3,528 3.24  99,354 3,548 3.57 
        
223,140 7,490 3.36  216,726 6,971 3.22 
45,538 813 1.79  62,661 1,229 1.97 
        
832,608 39,439 4.74  788,213 35,110 4.45 
73,789 1,857 2.52  78,165 1,756 2.25 
41,504 1,844 4.44  38,344 859 2.24 
2,180,592 65,685 3.01  2,101,604 57,110 2.72 
        
        
776,049 2,223 0.29  703,738 1,029 0.15 
237,172 634 0.27  221,532 327 0.15 
        
115,574 1,349 1.17  121,945 773 0.63 
71,812 262 0.37  56,775 316 0.56 
        
138,470 1,271 0.92  133,788 86 0.06 
79,876 1,280 1.60  80,117 1,219 1.52 
32,457 503 1.55  40,180 504 1.25 
        
276,750 6,745 2.44  283,169 5,533 1.95 
14,739 8 0.05  12,404 31 0.25 
        
(2,874) (25) —   (20,405) 10 —  
2,874 25 —   20,405 (10) —  
1,742,899 14,275 0.82  1,653,648 9,818 0.59 
437,693     447,956    
$ 2,180,592$ 14,275 0.65 %  $ 2,101,604$ 9,818 0.47 % 
 $ 51,410 2.36 %   $ 47,292 2.25 % 
 46,059 2.68   40,705 2.49 
 5,351 1.15   6,587 1.42 
        
  22.5    23.1 
  21.1    20.7 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  291
Changes in net inter est income, volume and rate analysis
The table below presents an attribution of net interest income between volume and rate. The attribution between volume and rate is calculated using
annual average balances for each category of assets and liabilities shown in the table and the corresponding annual average rates (refer to pages 288–292
for more information on average balances and rates). In this analysis, when the change cannot be isolated to either volume or rate, it has been allocated
to volume. The average annual rates include the impact of changes in market rates as well as the impact of any change in composition of the various
products within each category of asset or liability. This analysis is calculated separately for each category without consideration of the relationship
between categories (for example, the net spread between the rates earned on assets and the rates paid on liabilities that fund those assets). As a result,
changes in the granularity or groupings considered in this analysis would produce a different attribution result, and due to the complexities involved,
precise allocation of changes in interest rates between volume and rates is inherently complex and judgmental.
 2018 versus 2017  2017 versus 2016
(Unaudited)Increase/(decrease) due to
change in:  Increase/(decrease) due to
change in:  
Year ended December 31,
(On a taxable-equivalent basis; in millions) Volume RateNet
change  Volume RateNet
change
Interest-earning assets       
Deposits with banks:       
U.S. $ (1,141)$ 2,751 $ 1,610 $ 409 $ 1,977 $ 2,386
Non-U.S. 59 — 59 18 (45) (27)
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements:      
U.S. 267 800 1,067 (337) 531 194
Non-U.S. 173 252 425 81 (213) (132)
Securities borrowed:      
U.S. 73 633 706 11 264 275
Non-U.S. 26 33 59 (4) 24 20
Trading assets – debt instruments:      
U.S. 459 423 882 396 (35) 361
Non-U.S. 341 (174) 167 308 (328) (20)
Investment securities:      
U.S. (770) 223 (547) 216 303 519
Non-U.S. (189) 73 (116) (303) (113) (416)
Loans:       
U.S. 1,710 4,246 5,956 2,043 2,286 4,329
Non-U.S. 212 332 544 (110) 211 101
All other interest-earning assets, predominantly U.S. 510 1,063 1,573 141 844 985
Change in interest income 1,730 10,655 12,385 2,869 5,706 8,575
Interest-bearing liabilities       
Interest-bearing deposits:       
U.S. 244 2,095 2,339 209 985 1,194
Non-U.S. 42 735 777 41 266 307
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase
agreements:      
U.S. 46 1,167 1,213 (83) 659 576
Non-U.S. 5 237 242 54 (108) (54)
Trading liabilities – debt, short-term and all other interest-bearing liabilities:
(a)      
U.S. 276 1,842 2,118 45 1,140 1,185
Non-U.S. 180 24 204 (3) 64 61
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs, predominantly U.S. (266) 256 (10) (122) 121 (1)
Long-term debt:     
U.S. (618) 1,827 1,209 (176) 1,388 1,212
Non-U.S. 6 10 16 2 (25) (23)
Intercompany funding:        
U.S. (704) (17) (721) 151 (186) (35)
Non-U.S. 704 17 721 (151) 186 35
Change in interest expense (85) 8,193 8,108 (33) 4,490 4,457
Change in net interest income $ 1,815 $ 2,462 $ 4,277 $ 2,902 $ 1,216 $ 4,118
Effective January 1, 2018, the Firm adopted several new accounting standards. Certain of the new accounting standards were applied retrospectively and, accordingly, prior period
amounts were revised. For additional information, refer to Note 1.
(a)Includes commercial paper.
292  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Glossary of Terms and Acronyms
2018 Form 10-K: Annual report on Form 10-K for year ended
December 31, 2018, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.
ABS: Asset-backed securities
AFS: Available-for-sale
ALCO: Asset Liability Committee
AWM: Asset & Wealth Management
AOCI: Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)
ARM: Adjustable rate mortgage(s)
AUC: Assets under custody
AUM: “Assets under management”: Represent assets managed by
AWM on behalf of its Private Banking, Institutional and Retail clients.
Includes “Committed capital not Called.”
Auto loan and lease origination volume: Dollar amount of auto loans
and leases originated.
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs: Represents the
interest of third-party holders of debt, equity securities, or other
obligations, issued by VIEs that JPMorgan Chase consolidates.
Benefit obligation: Refers to the projected benefit obligation for
pension plans and the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation
for OPEB plans.
BHC: Bank holding company
Card Services includes the Credit Card and Merchant Services
businesses.
CB: Commercial Banking
CBB: Consumer & Business Banking
CCAR: Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review
CCB: Consumer & Community Banking
CCO: Chief Compliance Officer
CCP: “Central counterparty” is a clearing house that interposes
itself between counterparties to contracts traded in one or more
financial markets, becoming the buyer to every seller and the seller to
every buyer and thereby ensuring the future performance of open
contracts. A CCP becomes counterparty to trades with market
participants through novation, an open offer system, or another legally
binding arrangement.
CDS: Credit default swaps
CEO: Chief Executive Officer
CET1 Capital: Common equity Tier 1 capital
CFTC: Commodity Futures Trading Commission
CFO: Chief Financial Officer
CFP: Contingency funding plan Chase Bank USA, N.A.: Chase Bank USA, National Association
CIB: Corporate & Investment Bank
CIO: Chief Investment Office
Client assets: Represent assets under management as well as custody,
brokerage, administration and deposit accounts.
Client deposits and other third-party liabilities: Deposits, as well as
deposits that are swept to on-balance sheet liabilities (e.g., commercial
paper, federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under
repurchase agreements) as part of client cash management programs.
CLO: Collateralized loan obligations
CLTV: Combined loan-to-value
Collateral-dependent: A loan is considered to be collateral-dependent
when repayment of the loan is expected to be provided solely by the
underlying collateral, rather than by cash flows from the borrower’s
operations, income or other resources.
Commercial Card: provides a wide range of payment services to
corporate and public sector clients worldwide through the commercial
card products. Services include procurement, corporate travel and
entertainment, expense management services, and business-to-business
payment solutions.
Core loans: Represents loans considered central to the Firm’s ongoing
businesses; core loans excludes loans classified as trading assets,
runoff portfolios, discontinued portfolios and portfolios the Firm has
an intent to exit.
Credit cycle: A period of time over which credit quality improves,
deteriorates and then improves again (or vice versa). The duration of a
credit cycle can vary from a couple of years to several years.
Credit derivatives: Financial instruments whose value is
derived from the credit risk associated with the debt of a third-
party issuer (the reference entity) which allow one party (the
protection purchaser) to transfer that risk to another party (the
protection seller). Upon the occurrence of a credit event by the
reference entity, which may include, among other events, the
bankruptcy or failure to pay its obligations, or certain
restructurings of the debt of the reference entity, neither party
has recourse to the reference entity. The protection purchaser has
recourse to the protection seller for the difference between the
face value of the CDS contract and the fair value at the time of
settling the credit derivative contract. The determination as to
whether a credit event has occurred is generally made by the
relevant International Swaps and Derivatives Association
(“ISDA”) Determinations Committee.
Criticized: Criticized loans, lending-related commitments and
derivative receivables that are classified as special mention,
substandard and doubtful categories for regulatory purposes and are
generally consistent with a rating of CC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  293
Glossary of Terms and Acronyms
C+/Caa1 and below, as defined by S&P and Moody’s.
CRO: Chief Risk Officer
CRSC: Conduct Risk Steering Committee
CTC: CIO, Treasury and Corporate
CVA: Credit valuation adjustment
Debit and credit card sales volume: Dollar amount of card member
purchases, net of returns.
Deposit margin/deposit spread: Represents net interest income
expressed as a percentage of average deposits.
Distributed denial-of-service attack: The use of a large number of
remote computer systems to electronically send a high volume of
traffic to a target website to create a service outage at the target. This is
a form of cyberattack.
Dodd-Frank Act: Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
DRPC: Board of Directors’ Risk Policy Committee
DVA: Debit valuation adjustment
EC: European Commission
Eligible LTD: Long-term debt satisfying certain eligibility criteria
Embedded derivatives: are implicit or explicit terms or features of a
financial instrument that affect some or all of the cash flows or the
value of the instrument in a manner similar to a derivative. An
instrument containing such terms or features is referred to as a
“hybrid.” The component of the hybrid that is the non-derivative
instrument is referred to as the “host.” For example, callable debt is a
hybrid instrument that contains a plain vanilla debt instrument (i.e., the
host) and an embedded option that allows the issuer to redeem the debt
issue at a specified date for a specified amount (i.e., the embedded
derivative). However, a floating rate instrument is not a hybrid
composed of a fixed-rate instrument and an interest rate swap.
ERISA: Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
EPS: Earnings per share
ETD: “Exchange-traded derivatives”: Derivative contracts that are
executed on an exchange and settled via a central clearing house.
EU: European Union
Fannie Mae: Federal National Mortgage Association
FASB: Financial Accounting Standards Board
FCA: Financial Conduct Authority
FCC: Firmwide Control Committee
FDIA: Federal Depository Insurance Act
FDIC: Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Federal Reserve: The Board of the Governors of the Federal Reserve
System
FFELP: Federal Family Education Loan Program
FFIEC: Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
FHA: Federal Housing Administration
FHLB: Federal Home Loan Bank
FICC: The Fixed Income Clearing Corporation
FICO score: A measure of consumer credit risk provided by credit
bureaus, typically produced from statistical models by Fair Isaac
Corporation utilizing data collected by the credit bureaus.
Firm: JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Forward points: Represents the interest rate differential between two
currencies, which is either added to or subtracted from the current
exchange rate (i.e., “spot rate”) to determine the forward exchange
rate.
FRC: Firmwide Risk Committee
Freddie Mac: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
Free standing derivatives: a derivative contract entered into either
separate and apart from any of the Firm’s other financial instruments
or equity transactions. Or, in conjunction with some other transaction
and is legally detachable and separately exercisable.
FSB: Financial Stability Board
FTE: Fully taxable equivalent
FVA: Funding valuation adjustment
FX: Foreign exchange
G7: Group of Seven nations: Countries in the G7 are Canada, France,
Germany, Italy, Japan, the U.K. and the U.S.
G7 government bonds: Bonds issued by the government of one of the
G7 nations.
Ginnie Mae: Government National Mortgage Association
GSE: Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
GSIB: Global systemically important banks
Headcount-related expense: Includes salary and benefits (excluding
performance-based incentives), and other noncompensation costs
related to employees.
HELOAN: Home equity loan
HELOC: Home equity line of credit
Home equity – senior lien: Represents loans and commitments where
JPMorgan Chase holds the first security interest on the property.
Home equity – junior lien: Represents loans and commitments where
JPMorgan Chase holds a security interest that is subordinate in rank to
other liens.
294  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Glossary of Terms and Acronyms
Households: A household is a collection of individuals or entities
aggregated together by name, address, tax identifier and phone
number.
HQLA: High quality liquid assets
HTM: Held-to-maturity
ICAAP: Internal capital adequacy assessment process
IDI: Insured depository institutions
IHC: JPMorgan Chase Holdings LLC, an intermediate holding
company
Impaired loan: Impaired loans are loans measured at amortized cost,
for which it is probable that the Firm will be unable to collect all
amounts due, including principal and interest, according to the
contractual terms of the agreement. Impaired loans include the
following:
•All wholesale nonaccrual loans
•All TDRs (both wholesale and consumer), including ones that have
returned to accrual status
Investment-grade: An indication of credit quality based on JPMorgan
Chase’s internal risk assessment system. “Investment grade” generally
represents a risk profile similar to a rating of a “BBB-”/“Baa3” or
better, as defined by independent rating agencies.
ISDA: International Swaps and Derivatives Association
JPMorgan Chase: JPMorgan Chase & Co.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.: JPMorgan Chase Bank, National
Association
JPMorgan Clearing: J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp.
JPMorgan Securities: J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
Loan-equivalent: Represents the portion of the unused commitment
or other contingent exposure that is expected, based on historical
portfolio experience, to become drawn prior to an event of a default by
an obligor.
LCR: Liquidity coverage ratio
LDA: Loss Distribution Approach
LGD: Loss given default
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate
LLC: Limited Liability Company
LOB: Line of business
LOB CROs: Line of Business and CTC Chief Risk Officers
Loss emergence period: Represents the time period between the date
at which the loss is estimated to have been incurred and the ultimate
realization of that loss.
LTIP: Long-term incentive plan
LTV: “Loan-to-value”: For residential real estate loans, the
relationship, expressed as a percentage, between the principal amount
of a loan and the appraised value of the collateral (i.e., resi dential real estate) securing the loan.
Origination date LTV ratio
The LTV ratio at the origination date of the loan. Origination date LTV
ratios are calculated based on the actual appraised values of collateral
(i.e., loan-level data) at the origination date.
Current estimated LTV ratio
An estimate of the LTV as of a certain date. The current estimated LTV
ratios are calculated using estimated collateral values derived from a
nationally recognized home price index measured at the metropolitan
statistical area (“MSA”) level. These MSA-level home price indices
consist of actual data to the extent available and forecasted data where
actual data is not available. As a result, the estimated collateral values
used to calculate these ratios do not represent actual appraised loan-
level collateral values; as such, the resulting LTV ratios are necessarily
imprecise and should therefore be viewed as estimates.
Combined LTV ratio
The LTV ratio considering all available lien positions, as well as
unused lines, related to the property. Combined LTV ratios are used for
junior lien home equity products.
Managed basis: A non-GAAP presentation of Firmwide financial
results that includes reclassifications to present revenue on a fully
taxable-equivalent basis. Management also uses this financial measure
at the segment level, because it believes this provides information to
enable investors to understand the underlying operational performance
and trends of the particular business segment and facilitates a
comparison of the business segment with the performance of
competitors.
Master netting agreement: A single agreement with a counterparty
that permits multiple transactions governed by that agreement to be
terminated or accelerated and settled through a single payment in a
single currency in the event of a default (e.g., bankruptcy, failure to
make a required payment or securities transfer or deliver collateral or
margin when due).
Measurement alternative: Measures equity securities without readily
determinable fair values at cost less impairment (if any), plus or minus
observable price changes from an identical or similar investment of the
same issuer.
MBS: Mortgage-backed securities
MD&A: Management’s discussion and analysis
Merchant Services: is a business that primarily processes transactions
for merchants.
MMDA: Money Market Deposit Accounts
Moody’s: Moody’s Investor Services
Mortgage origination channels:
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  295
Glossary of Terms and Acronyms
Retail – Borrowers who buy or refinance a home through direct
contact with a mortgage banker employed by the Firm using a branch
office, the Internet or by phone. Borrowers are frequently referred to a
mortgage banker by a banker in a Chase branch, real estate brokers,
home builders or other third parties.
Correspondent – Banks, thrifts, other mortgage banks and other
financial institutions that sell closed loans to the Firm.
Mortgage product types:
Alt-A
Alt-A loans are generally higher in credit quality than subprime loans
but have characteristics that would disqualify the borrower from a
traditional prime loan. Alt-A lending characteristics may include one or
more of the following: (i) limited documentation; (ii) a high CLTV
ratio; (iii) loans secured by non-owner occupied properties; or (iv) a
debt-to-income ratio above normal limits. A substantial proportion of
the Firm’s Alt-A loans are those where a borrower does not provide
complete documentation of his or her assets or the amount or source of
his or her income.
Option ARMs
The option ARM real estate loan product is an adjustable-rate
mortgage loan that provides the borrower with the option each month
to make a fully amortizing, interest-only or minimum payment. The
minimum payment on an option ARM loan is based on the interest rate
charged during the introductory period. This introductory rate is
usually significantly below the fully indexed rate. The fully indexed
rate is calculated using an index rate plus a margin. Once the
introductory period ends, the contractual interest rate charged on the
loan increases to the fully indexed rate and adjusts monthly to reflect
movements in the index. The minimum payment is typically
insufficient to cover interest accrued in the prior month, and any
unpaid interest is deferred and added to the principal balance of the
loan. Option ARM loans are subject to payment recast, which converts
the loan to a variable-rate fully amortizing loan upon meeting specified
loan balance and anniversary date triggers.
Prime
Prime mortgage loans are made to borrowers with good credit records
who meet specific underwriting requirements, including prescriptive
requirements related to income and overall debt levels. New prime
mortgage borrowers provide full documentation and generally have
reliable payment histories.
Subprime
Subprime loans are loans that, prior to mid-2008, were offered to
certain customers with one or more high risk characteristics, including
but not limited to: (i) unreliable or poor payment histories; (ii) a high
LTV ratio of greater than 80% (without borrower-paid mortgage
insurance); (iii) a high debt-to-income ratio; (iv) an occupancy type for
the loan is other than the borrower’s primary residence; or (v) a history of
delinquencies or late payments on the loan.
MSA: Metropolitan statistical areas
MSR: Mortgage servicing rights
Multi-asset: Any fund or account that allocates assets under
management to more than one asset class.
NA: Data is not applicable or available for the period presented.
NAV: Net Asset Value
Net Capital Rule: Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934.
Net charge-off/(recovery) rate: Represents net charge-
offs/(recoveries) (annualized) divided by average retained loans for the
reporting period.
Net mortgage servicing revenue: Includes operating revenue earned
from servicing third-party mortgage loans which is recognized over the
period in which the service is provided, changes in the fair value of
MSRs and the impact of risk management activities associated with
MSRs.
Net production revenue: Includes fees and income recognized as
earned on mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell; the impact
of risk management activities associated with the mortgage pipeline
and warehouse loans; and changes in the fair value of any residual
interests held from mortgage securitizations. Net production revenue
also includes gains and losses on sales of mortgage loans, lower of cost
or fair value adjustments on mortgage loans held-for-sale, changes in
fair value on mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell and
measured at fair value under the fair value option, as well as losses
recognized as incurred related to repurchases of previously sold loans.
Net revenue rate: Represents Card Services net revenue (annualized)
expressed as a percentage of average loans for the period.
Net interchange income includes the following components:
•Interchange income: Fees earned by credit and debit card issuers on
sales transactions.
•Rewards costs: The cost to the Firm for points earned by
cardholders enrolled in credit card rewards programs.
•Partner payments: Payments to co-brand credit card partners based
on the cost of loyalty program rewards earned by cardholders on
credit card transactions.
Net yield on interest-earning assets: The average rate for interest-
earning assets less the average rate paid for all sources of funds.
NM: Not meaningful
NOL: Net operating loss
Nonaccrual loans: Loans for which interest income is not recognized
on an
296  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Glossary of Terms and Acronyms
accrual basis. Loans (other than credit card loans and certain consumer
loans insured by U.S. government agencies) are placed on nonaccrual
status when full payment of principal and interest is not expected,
regardless of delinquency status, or when principal and interest have
been in default for a period of 90 days or more unless the loan is both
well-secured and in the process of collection. Collateral-dependent
loans are typically maintained on nonaccrual status.
Nonperforming assets: Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual
loans, nonperforming derivatives and certain assets acquired in loan
satisfaction, predominantly real estate owned and other commercial
and personal property.
NOW: Negotiable Order of Withdrawal
OAS: Option-adjusted spread
OCC: Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
OCI: Other comprehensive income/(loss)
OPEB: Other postretirement employee benefit
ORMF: Operational Risk Management Framework
OTTI: Other-than-temporary impairment
Over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives: Derivative contracts that are
negotiated, executed and settled bilaterally between two derivative
counterparties, where one or both counterparties is a derivatives dealer.
Over-the-counter cleared (“OTC-cleared”) derivatives: Derivative
contracts that are negotiated and executed bilaterally, but subsequently
settled via a central clearing house, such that each derivative
counterparty is only exposed to the default of that clearing house.
Overhead ratio: Noninterest expense as a percentage of total net
revenue.
Parent Company: JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Participating securities: Represents unvested share-based
compensation awards containing nonforfeitable rights to dividends or
dividend equivalents (collectively, “dividends”), which are included in
the earnings per share calculation using the two-class method.
JPMorgan Chase grants RSUs to certain employees under its share-
based compensation programs, which entitle the recipients to receive
nonforfeitable dividends during the vesting period on a basis
equivalent to the dividends paid to holders of common stock. These
unvested awards meet the definition of participating securities. Under
the two-class method, all earnings (distributed and undistributed) are
allocated to each class of common stock and participating securities,
based on their respective rights to receive dividends.
PCA: Prompt corrective action
PCI: “Purchased credit-impaired” loans represents certain loans
that were acquired and deemed to be credit-impaired on the acquisition
date in accordance with the guidance of the FASB. The guidance
allows purchasers to aggregate credit-impaired loans acquired in the s ame fiscal quarter into one or more pools, provided that the loans have
common risk characteristics(e.g., product type, LTV ratios, FICO
scores, past due status, geographic location). A pool is then accounted
for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and an
aggregate expectation of cash flows.
PD: Probability of default
PRA: Prudential Regulatory Authority
Pre-provision profit/(loss): Represents total net revenue less
noninterest expense. The Firm believes that this financial measure is
useful in assessing the ability of a lending institution to generate
income in excess of its provision for credit losses.
Pretax margin: Represents income before income tax expense divided
by total net revenue, which is, in management’s view, a comprehensive
measure of pretax performance derived by measuring earnings after all
costs are taken into consideration. It is one basis upon which
management evaluates the performance of AWM against the
performance of their respective competitors.
Principal transactions revenue: Principal transactions revenue is
driven by many factors, including the bid-offer spread, which is the
difference between the price at which the Firm is willing to buy a
financial or other instrument and the price at which the Firm is willing
to sell that instrument. It also consists of realized (as a result of closing
out or termination of transactions, or interim cash payments) and
unrealized (as a result of changes in valuation) gains and losses on
financial and other instruments (including those accounted for under
the fair value option) primarily used in client-driven market-making
activities and on private equity investments. In connection with its
client-driven market-making activities, the Firm transacts in debt and
equity instruments, derivatives and commodities (including physical
commodities inventories and financial instruments that reference
commodities).
Principal transactions revenue also includes certain realized and
unrealized gains and losses related to hedge accounting and specified
risk-management activities, including: (a) certain derivatives
designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships (primarily fair
value hedges of commodity and foreign exchange risk), (b) certain
derivatives used for specific risk management purposes, primarily to
mitigate credit risk, foreign exchange risk and commodity risk, and (c)
other derivatives.
PSU(s): Performance share units
REIT: “Real estate investment trust”: A special purpose investment
vehicle that provides investors with the ability to participate directly in
the ownership or financing of real-estate related assets by pooling their
capital to purchase and manage income property (i.e., equity REIT)
and/or mortgage loans (i.e., mortgage REIT). REITs can be publicly or
privately held and they also qualify for certain favorable tax
considerations.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  297
Glossary of Terms and Acronyms
Receivables from customers: These receivables are reported within
accrued interest and accounts receivable on the Firm’s Consolidated
balance sheets. Primarily represents held-for-investment margin loans
to brokerage customers that are collateralized through assets
maintained in the clients’ brokerage accounts, as such no allowance is
held against these receivables. These receivables are reported within
accrued interest and accounts receivable on the Firm’s Consolidated
balance sheets.
Regulatory VaR: Daily aggregated VaR calculated in accordance with
regulatory rules.
REO: Real estate owned
Reported basis: Financial statements prepared under U.S. GAAP,
which excludes the impact of taxable-equivalent adjustments.
Retained loans: Loans that are held-for-investment (i.e., excludes
loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value).
Revenue wallet: Proportion of fee revenue based on estimates of
investment banking fees generated across the industry (i.e., the revenue
wallet) from investment banking transactions in M&A, equity and debt
underwriting, and loan syndications. Source: Dealogic, a third-party
provider of investment banking competitive analysis and volume-
based league tables for the above noted industry products.
RHS: Rural Housing Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture
Risk-rated portfolio: Credit loss estimates are based on
estimates of the probability of default (“PD”) and loss severity
given a default. The probability of default is the likelihood that a
borrower will default on its obligation; the loss given default
(“LGD”) is the estimated loss on the loan that would be realized
upon the default and takes into consideration collateral and
structural support for each credit facility.
ROA: Return on assets
ROE: Return on equity
ROTCE: Return on tangible common equity
RSU(s): Restricted stock units
RWA: “Risk-weighted assets”: Basel III establishes two
comprehensive approaches for calculating RWA (a Standardized
approach and an Advanced approach) which include capital
requirements for credit risk, market risk, and in the case of Basel III
Advanced, also operational risk. Key differences in the calculation of
credit risk RWA between the Standardized and Advanced approaches
are that for Basel III Advanced, credit risk RWA is based on risk-
sensitive approaches which largely rely on the use of internal credit
models and parameters, whereas for Basel III Standardized, credit risk
RWA is generally based on supervisory risk-weightings which vary
primarily by counterparty type and asset class. Market risk RWA is
calculated on a generally consistent basis between Basel III
Standardized and Basel III Advanced.
S&P: Standard and Poor’s 500 Index SAR(s): Stock appreciation rights
Scored portfolio: The scored portfolio predominantly includes
residential real estate loans, credit card loans and certain auto and
business banking loans where credit loss estimates are based on
statistical analysis of credit losses over discrete periods of time. The
statistical analysis uses portfolio modeling, credit scoring and
decision-support tools.
SEC: Securities and Exchange Commission
Seed capital: Initial JPMorgan capital invested in products, such as
mutual funds, with the intention of ensuring the fund is of sufficient
size to represent a viable offering to clients, enabling pricing of its
shares, and allowing the manager to develop a track record. After these
goals are achieved, the intent is to remove the Firm’s capital from the
investment.
Single-name: Single reference-entities
SLR: Supplementary leverage ratio
SMBS: Stripped mortgage-backed securities
SPEs: Special purpose entities
Structural interest rate risk: Represents interest rate risk of the non-
trading assets and liabilities of the Firm.
Structured notes: Structured notes are financial instruments whose
cash flows are linked to the movement in one or more indexes, interest
rates, foreign exchange rates, commodities prices, prepayment rates, or
other market variables. The notes typically contain embedded (but not
separable or detachable) derivatives. Contractual cash flows for
principal, interest, or both can vary in amount and timing throughout
the life of the note based on non-traditional indexes or non-traditional
uses of traditional interest rates or indexes.
Taxable-equivalent basis: In presenting results on a managed basis,
the total net revenue for each of the business segments and the Firm is
presented on a tax-equivalent basis. Accordingly, revenue from
investments that receive tax credits and tax-exempt securities is
presented in managed basis results on a level comparable to taxable
investments and securities; the corresponding income tax impact
related to tax-exempt items is recorded within income tax expense.
TBVPS: Tangible book value per share
TCE: Tangible common equity
TDR: “Troubled debt restructuring” is deemed to occur when the
Firm modifies the original terms of a loan agreement by granting a
concession to a borrower that is experiencing financial difficulty.
TLAC: Total Loss Absorbing Capacity
U.K.: United Kingdom
Unaudited: Financial statements and information that have not been
su
298  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K
Glossary of Terms and Acronyms
bjected to auditing procedures sufficient to permit an independent
certified public accountant to express an opinion.
U.S.: United States of America
U.S. GAAP: Accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S.
U.S. government-sponsored enterprises (“U.S. GSEs”) and U.S.
GSE obligations: In the U.S., GSEs are quasi-governmental, privately
held entities established by Congress to improve the flow of credit to
specific sectors of the economy and provide certain essential services
to the public. U.S. GSEs include Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, but do
not include Ginnie Mae, which is directly owned by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development. U.S. GSE
obligations are not explicitly guaranteed as to the timely payment of
principal and interest by the full faith and credit of the U.S.
government.
U.S. LCR: Liquidity coverage ratio under the final U.S. rule.
U.S. Treasury: U.S. Department of the Treasury
VA: U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs
VaR: “Value-at-risk” is a measure of the dollar amount of potential
loss from adverse market moves in an ordinary market environment.
VCG: Valuation Control Group
VGF: Valuation Governance Forum
VIEs: Variable interest entities
Warehouse loans: Consist of prime mortgages originated with the
intent to sell that are accounted for at fair value and classified as
trading assets.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2018 Form 10-K  299
Investment securities portfolio
For information regarding the securities portfolio as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, and for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, refer to
Note 10.
 2016
(Unaudited)
December 31, (in millions)Amortized
costFair
value
Available-for-sale securities
Mortgage-backed securities: U.S Government agencies $ 63,367 $ 64,005
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 44,822 44,101
All other AFS securities 128,241 130,785
Total available-for-sale securities $ 236,430 $ 238,891
Held-to-maturity securities
Mortgage-backed securities: U.S Government agencies 29,910 30,51 1
All other HTM securities 20,258 20,378
Total held-to-maturity securities $ 50,168 $ 50,889
Total investment securities $ 286,598 $ 289,780
300  
Loan portfolio
The table below presents loans by portfolio segment and loan class that are presented in Credit and Investment Risk Management on page 105,
pages 106–111 and page 112, and in Note 12, at the periods indicated.
(Unaudited)
December 31, (in millions)20182017 2016 2015 2014
U.S. consumer, excluding credit card loans   
Residential mortgage $ 246,244$ 236,157$ 215,178$ 192,714$ 139,973
Home equity 37,303 44,249 51,965 60,548 69,837
Auto 63,573 66,242 65,814 60,255 54,536
Other 26,612 26,033 31,687 31,304 31,028
Total U.S. consumer, excluding credit card loans 373,732 372,681 364,644 344,821 295,374
Credit card Loans   
U.S. credit card loans 156,312 149,107 141,447 131,132 129,067
Non-U.S. credit card loans 320 404 369 331 1,981
Total credit card loans 156,632 149,511 141,816 131,463 131,048
Total consumer loans 530,364 522,192 506,460 476,284 426,422
U.S. wholesale loans   
Commercial and industrial 111,208 93,522 91,393 83,739 78,664
Real estate 115,401 112,562 104,268 90,836 77,022
Financial institutions 29,165 23,819 20,499 12,708 13,743
Governments & Agencies 11,037 12,603 12,655 9,838 7,574
Other 83,386 69,602 66,363 67,925 49,838
Total U.S. wholesale loans 350,197 312,108 295,178 265,046 226,841
Non-U.S. wholesale loans   
Commercial and industrial 30,450 29,233 31,340 30,385 34,782
Real estate 3,397 3,302 3,975 4,577 2,224
Financial institutions 18,563 16,845 15,196 17,188 21,099
Governments & Agencies 3,150 2,906 3,726 1,788 1,122
Other 48,433 44,111 38,890 42,031 44,846
Total non-U.S. wholesale loans 103,993 96,397 93,127 95,969 104,073
Total wholesale loans   
Commercial and industrial 141,658 122,755 122,733 114,124 113,446
Real estate 118,798 115,864 108,243 95,413 79,246
Financial institutions 47,728 40,664 35,695 29,896 34,842
Governments & Agencies 14,187 15,509 16,381 11,626 8,696
Other 131,819 113,713 105,253 109,956 94,684
Total wholesale loans 454,190 408,505 388,305 361,015 330,914
Total loans(a) $ 984,554$ 930,697$ 894,765$ 837,299$ 757,336
Memo:   
Loans held-for-sale $ 11,988$ 3,351$ 2,628$ 1,646$ 7,217
Loans at fair value 3,151 2,508 2,230 2,861 2,611
Total loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value $ 15,139$ 5,859$ 4,858$ 4,507$ 9,828
(a)Loans (other than purchased credit-impaired loans and those for which the fair value option have been elected) are presented net of unamortized discounts and premiums and net
deferred loan fees or costs. These amounts were not material as of December 31, 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015 and 2014.
 301
Maturities and sensitivity to changes in interest rates
The table below sets forth, at December 31, 2018, wholesale loan maturity and distribution between fixed and floating interest rates based on the
stated terms of the loan agreements. The table below also presents loans by loan class that are presented in Wholesale credit portfolio on pages 112–
119 and Note 12. The table does not include the impact of derivative instruments.
(Unaudited)
December 31, 2018
(in millions)Within
1 year (a)1-5
years  After 5
years Total
U.S.   
Commercial and industrial $ 31,145 $ 69,357 $ 10,706 $ 111,208
Real estate 10,440 23,554 81,407 115,401
Financial institutions 15,190 13,639 336 29,165
Governments & Agencies 1,498 3,308 6,231 11,037
Other 28,066 52,722 2,598 83,386
Total U.S. 86,339 162,580 101,278 350,197
Non-U.S.   
Commercial and industrial 11,636 16,390 2,424 30,450
Real estate 1,073 2,261 63 3,397
Financial institutions 12,879 5,653 31 18,563
Governments & Agencies 497 1,843 810 3,150
Other 35,423 12,040 970 48,433
Total non-U.S. 61,508 38,187 4,298 103,993
Total wholesale loans $ 147,847 $ 200,767 $ 105,576 $ 454,190
Loans at fixed interest rates $ 14,221 $ 11,335
Loans at variable interest rates 186,546 94,241
Total wholesale loans $ 200,767 $ 105,576
(a)Includes demand loans and overdrafts.
Risk elements
The following tables set forth nonperforming assets, contractually past-due assets, and accruing restructured loans by portfolio segment and loan
class that are presented in Credit and Investment Risk Management on page 105, page 107 and page 112, at the periods indicated.
(Unaudited)
December 31, (in millions) 2018  2017  2016 2015 2014
Nonperforming assets      
U.S. nonaccrual loans:      
Consumer, excluding credit card loans $ 3,461 $ 4,209 $ 4,820 $ 5,413 $ 6,509
Credit card loans — — — — —
Total U.S. nonaccrual consumer loans 3,461 4,209 4,820 5,413 6,509
Wholesale:      
Commercial and industrial 624 703 1,145 315 184
Real estate 212 95 148 175 237
Financial institutions 4 2 4 4 12
Governments & Agencies — — — — —
Other 89 137 198 86 59
Total U.S. wholesale nonaccrual loans 929 937 1,495 580 492
Total U.S. nonaccrual loans 4,390 5,146 6,315 5,993 7,001
Non-U.S. nonaccrual loans:      
Consumer, excluding credit card loans — — — — —
Credit card loans — — — — —
Total non-U.S. nonaccrual consumer loans — — — — —
Wholesale:      
Commercial and industrial 358 654 454 314 21
Real estate 12 41 52 63 23
Financial institutions — — 5 6 7
Governments & Agencies — — — — —
Other 71 102 57 53 81
Total non-U.S. wholesale nonaccrual loans 441 797 568 436 132
Total non-U.S. nonaccrual loans 441 797 568 436 132
Total nonaccrual loans 4,831 5,943 6,883 6,429 7,133
Derivative receivables 60 130 223 204 275
Assets acquired in loan satisfactions 299 353 429 401 559
Nonperforming assets $ 5,190 $ 6,426 $ 7,535 $ 7,034 $ 7,967
Memo:      
Loans held-for-sale $ — $ — $ 162 $ 101 $ 95
Loans at fair value 220 — — 25 21
Total loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value $ 220 $ — $ 162 $ 126 $ 116
302  
(Unaudited)
December 31, (in millions) 2018  2017  2016 2015 2014  
Contractually past-due loans(a)     
U.S. loans:     
Consumer, excluding credit card loans(b) $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — 
Credit card loans 1,442 1,378 1,143 944 893 
Total U.S. consumer loans 1,442 1,378 1,143 944 893 
Wholesale:     
Commercial and industrial 167 107 86 6 14 
Real estate 3 12 2 15 33 
Financial institutions 8 14 12 1 — 
Governments & Agencies 4 4 4 6 — 
Other 2 2 19 28 26 
Total U.S. wholesale loans 184 139 123 56 73 
Total U.S. loans 1,626 1,517 1,266 1,000 966 
Non-U.S. loans:     
Consumer, excluding credit card loans — — — — — 
Credit card loans 3 1 2 — 2 
Total non-U.S. consumer loans 3 1 2 — 2 
Wholesale:         
Commercial and industrial 1 1 — 1 — 
Real estate — — — — — 
Financial institutions 2 1 9 10 — 
Governments & Agencies — — — — — 
Other 1 — — — 3 
Total non-U.S. wholesale loans 4 2 9 11 3 
Total non-U.S. loans 7 3 11 11 5 
Total contractually past due loans $ 1,633 $ 1,520 $ 1,277 $ 1,011 $ 971 
(a)Represents accruing loans past-due 90 days or more as to principal and interest, which are not characterized as nonaccrual loans. Excludes PCI loans which are accounted for on a pool basis. Since each pool
is accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows, the past-due status of the pools, or that of individual loans within the pools, is not
meaningful. The Firm is recognizing interest income on each pool of loans as each of the pools is performing.
(b)At December 31, 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015 and 2014, excluded loans 90 or more days past due and still accruing as follows: (1) mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $1.6 billion, $2.7
billion, $2.7 billion, $2.8 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively; and (2) student loans insured by U.S. government agencies under the FFELP of $0 million, $0 million, $263 million, $290 million and $367
million, respectively. These amounts have been excluded from the nonaccrual loans based upon the government guarantee.
(Unaudited)
December 31, (in millions) 2018  2017  2016 2015 2014
Accruing restructured loans(a)      
U.S.:      
Consumer, excluding credit card loans $ 4,185 $ 4,993 $ 5,561 $ 5,980 $ 7,814
Credit card loans(b) 1,319 1,215 1,240 1,465 2,029
Total U.S. consumer loans 5,504 6,208 6,801 7,445 9,843
Wholesale:      
Commercial and industrial 50 32 34 12 10
Real estate 3 5 11 28 31
Financial institutions — 79 — — —
Other 5 — 4 — 1
Total U.S. wholesale loans 58 116 49 40 42
Total U.S. 5,562 6,324 6,850 7,485 9,885
Non-U.S.:      
Consumer, excluding credit card loans — — — — —
Credit card loans(b) — — — — —
Total non-U.S. consumer loans — — — — —
Wholesale:      
Commercial and industrial 45 10 17 — —
Real estate — — — — —
Financial institutions — 11 — — —
Other — — — — —
Total non-U.S. wholesale loans 45 21 17 — —
Total non-U.S. 45 21 17 — —
Total accruing restructured notes $ 5,607 $ 6,345 $ 6,867 $ 7,485 $ 9,885
(a)Represents performing loans modified in TDRs in which an economic concession was granted by the Firm and the borrower has demonstrated its ability to repay the loans according to the terms of the
restructuring. As defined in U.S. GAAP, concessions include the reduction of interest rates or the deferral of interest or principal payments, resulting from deterioration in the borrowers’ financial condition.
Excludes nonaccrual assets and contractually past-due assets, which are included in the sections above.
(b)Includes credit card loans that have been modified in a TDR.
For a discussion of nonaccrual loans, past-due loan accounting policies, and accruing restructured loans refer to Credit and Investment Risk
Management on pages 102-123, and Note 12.
 303
Impact of nonaccrual loans and accruing restructured loans on interest income
The negative impact on interest income from nonaccrual loans represents the difference between the amount of interest income that would have
been recorded on such nonaccrual loans according to their original contractual terms had they been performing and the amount of interest that
actually was recognized on a cash basis. The negative impact on interest income from accruing restructured loans represents the difference between
the amount of interest income that would have been recorded on such loans according to their original contractual terms and the amount of interest
that actually was recognized under the modified terms. The following table sets forth this data for the years specified. The change in forgone interest
income from 2016 through 2018 was primarily driven by the change in the levels of nonaccrual loans.
(Unaudited)
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Nonaccrual loans
U.S.:
Consumer, excluding credit card:
Gross amount of interest that would have been recorded at the original terms $ 318$ 367$ 464
Interest that was recognized in income (187) (175) (207)
Total U.S. consumer, excluding credit card 131 192 257
Credit card:
Gross amount of interest that would have been recorded at the original terms — — —
Interest that was recognized in income — — —
Total U.S. credit card — — —
Total U.S. consumer 131 192 257
Wholesale:
Gross amount of interest that would have been recorded at the original terms 51 46 56
Interest that was recognized in income (16) (30) (5)
Total U.S. wholesale 35 16 51
Negative impact — U.S. 166 208 308
Non-U.S.:
Consumer, excluding credit card:
Gross amount of interest that would have been recorded at the original terms — — —
Interest that was recognized in income — — —
Total non-U.S. consumer, excluding credit card — — —
Credit card:
Gross amount of interest that would have been recorded at the original terms — — —
Interest that was recognized in income — — —
Total non-U.S. credit card — — —
Total non-U.S. consumer — — —
Wholesale: 
Gross amount of interest that would have been recorded at the original terms 13 24 25
Interest that was recognized in income (3) (12) (2)
Total non-U.S. wholesale 10 12 23
Negative impact — non-U.S. 10 12 23
Total negative impact on interest income $ 176$ 220$ 331
304  
(Unaudited)
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Accruing restructured loans
U.S.:
Consumer, excluding credit card:
Gross amount of interest that would have been recorded at the original terms $ 329$ 401$ 451
Interest that was recognized in income (217) (245) (256)
Total U.S. consumer, excluding credit card 112 156 195
Credit card:
Gross amount of interest that would have been recorded at the original terms 227 202 207
Interest that was recognized in income (65) (59) (63)
Total U.S. credit card 162 143 144
Total U.S. consumer 274 299 339
Wholesale:
Gross amount of interest that would have been recorded at the original terms 4 13 2
Interest that was recognized in income (4) (13) (2)
Total U.S. wholesale — — —
Negative impact — U.S. 274 299 339
Non-U.S.:
Consumer, excluding credit card:
Gross amount of interest that would have been recorded at the original terms — — —
Interest that was recognized in income — — —
Total non-U.S. consumer, excluding credit card — — —
Credit card:
Gross amount of interest that would have been recorded at the original terms — — —
Interest that was recognized in income — — —
Total non-U.S. credit card — — —
Total non-U.S. consumer — — —
Wholesale:
Gross amount of interest that would have been recorded at the original terms — — —
Interest that was recognized in income — — —
Total non-U.S. wholesale — — —
Negative impact — non-U.S. — — —
Total negative impact on interest income $ 274$ 299$ 339
 305
Cross-border outstandings
Cross-border disclosure is based on the FFIEC guidelines governing
the determination of cross-border risk.
The reporting of country exposure under the FFIEC bank regulatory
requirements provides information on the distribution, by country and
sector, of claims on, and liabilities to, foreign residents held by U.S.
banks and bank holding companies and is used by the regulatory
agencies to determine the presence of credit and related risks, including transfer and country risk. Country location under the FFIEC
bank regulatory reporting is based on where the entity or counterparty
is legally established.
JPMorgan Chase’s total cross-border exposure tends to fluctuate
greatly, and the amount of exposure at year-end tends to be a function
of timing rather than representing a consistent trend. For a further
discussion of JPMorgan Chase’s country risk exposure, refer to
Country Risk Management on pages 132–133.
The following table lists all countries in which JPMorgan Chase’s cross-border outstandings exceed 0.75% of consolidated assets as of the dates
specified.
Cross-border outstandings exceeding 0.75% of total assets
(Unaudited)
(in millions) December 31, Governments Banks Other (a)Net local
country
assetsTotal
cross-border
outstandings (b) Commitments (c) Total exposur e(d)
Germany 2018 $ 12,793 $ 7,769 $ 15,393 $ 29,577 $ 65,532 $ 67,973 $ 133,505
 2017 17,751 5,357 12,320 20,117 55,545 65,333 120,878
 2016 22,332 2,118 14,310 25,269 64,029 74,099 138,128
Cayman Islands 2018 $ 1$ 308 $ 105,857 $ 20 $ 106,186 $ 45,073 $ 151,259
 2017 5 462 61,268 58 61,793 12,361 74,154
 2016 18 107 74,810 84 75,019 10,805 85,824
Japan 2018 $ 282 $ 9,803 $ 4,167 $ 40,247 $ 54,499 $ 51,901 $ 106,400
 2017 1,082 17,159 12,239 25,229 55,709 52,928 108,637
 2016 865 16,522 5,209 48,505 71,101 52,553 123,654
France 2018 $ 12,556 $ 3,499 $ 21,571 $ 2,771 $ 40,397 $ 105,845 $ 146,242
 2017 12,975 7,083 15,329 2,471 37,858 83,572 121,430
 2016 10,871 4,076 26,195 3,723 44,865 89,780 134,645
Italy 2018 $ 9,401 $ 4,098 $ 5,145 $ 1,375 $ 20,019 $ 61,326 $ 81,345
 2017 11,516 4,524 4,499 611 21,150 61,005 82,155
 2016 12,290 4,760 4,487 848 22,385 63,647 86,032
Ireland 2018 $ 185 $ 45 $ 19,439 $ — $ 19,669 $ 5,585 $ 25,254
 2017 630 318 19,630 — 20,578 5,728 26,306
 2016 148 664 18,916 — 19,728 5,467 25,195
(a)Consists primarily of non-banking financial institutions.
(b)Outstandings include loans and accrued interest receivable, interest-bearing deposits with banks, acceptances, resale agreements, other monetary assets, cross-border trading debt and
equity instruments, fair value of foreign exchange and derivative contracts, and local country assets, net of local country liabilities. The amounts associated with foreign exchange
and derivative contracts are presented after taking into account the impact of legally enforceable master netting agreements.
(c)Commitments include outstanding letters of credit, undrawn commitments to extend credit, and the gross notional value of credit derivatives where JPMorgan Chase is a protection
seller.
(d)The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
306  
The following tables summarize the changes in the allowance for loan losses and the allowance for lending-related commitments, as well as loan loss
analysis during the periods indicated. For a further discussion, refer to Allowance for credit losses on pages 120–122, and Note 13.
Allowance for loan losses   
(Unaudited)
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Balance at beginning of year $ 13,604$ 13,776$ 13,555$ 14,185$ 16,264
U.S. charge-offs   
U.S. consumer, excluding credit card 1,025 1,779 1,500 1,658 2,132
U.S. credit card 5,011 4,521 3,799 3,475 3,682
Total U.S. consumer charge-offs 6,036 6,300 5,299 5,133 5,814
U.S. wholesale:   
Commercial and industrial 161 87 240 63 44
Real estate 3 3 7 6 14
Financial institutions — — — 5 14
Governments & Agencies — 5 — — 25
Other 97 19 13 6 22
Total U.S. wholesale charge-offs 261 114 260 80 119
Total U.S. charge-offs 6,297 6,414 5,559 5,213 5,933
Non-U.S. charge-offs   
Non-U.S. consumer, excluding credit card — — — — —
Non-U.S. credit card — — — 13 149
Total non-U.S. consumer charge-offs — — — 13 149
Non-U.S. wholesale:   
Commercial and industrial 51 89 134 5 27
Real estate — — 1 — 4
Financial institutions — 7 1 — —
Governments & Agencies — — — — —
Other 1 2 2 10 1
Total non-U.S. wholesale charge-offs 52 98 138 15 32
Total non-U.S. charge-offs 52 98 138 28 181
Total charge-offs 6,349 6,512 5,697 5,241 6,114
U.S. recoveries   
U.S. consumer, excluding credit card (842) (634) (591) (704) (814)
U.S. credit card (493) (398) (357) (364) (383)
Total U.S. consumer recoveries (1,335) (1,032) (948) (1,068) (1,197)
U.S. wholesale:   
Commercial and industrial (45) (55) (10) (32) (49)
Real estate (23) (6) (15) (20) (27)
Financial institutions — — (3) (8) (12)
Governments & Agencies — — (1) (8) —
Other (44) (15) (3) (3) (36)
Total U.S. wholesale recoveries (112) (76) (32) (71) (124)
Total U.S. recoveries (1,447) (1,108) (980) (1,139) (1,321)
Non-U.S. recoveries   
Non-U.S. consumer, excluding credit card — — — — —
Non-U.S. credit card — — — (2) (19)
Total non-U.S. consumer recoveries — — — (2) (19)
Non-U.S. wholesale:   
Commercial and industrial (2) (4) (18) (10) —
Real estate — (1) — — —
Financial institutions — (1) — (2) (14)
Governments & Agencies — — — — —
Other (44) (11) (7) (2) (1)
Total non-U.S. wholesale recoveries (46) (17) (25) (14) (15)
Total non-U.S. recoveries (46) (17) (25) (16) (34)
Total recoveries (1,493) (1,125) (1,005) (1,155) (1,355)
Net charge-offs 4,856 5,387 4,692 4,086 4,759
Write-offs of PCI loans(a) 187 86 156 208 533
Provision for loan losses 4,885 5,300 5,080 3,663 3,224
Other (1) 1 (11) 1 (11)
Balance at year-end $ 13,445$ 13,604$ 13,776$ 13,555$ 14,185
(a)Write-of fs of PCI loans are recorded against the allowance for loan losses when actual losses for a pool exceed estimated losses that were recorded as purchase accounting adjustments at the
time of acquisition. A write-of f of a PCI loan is recognized when the underlying loan is removed from a pool (e.g., upon liquidation). During 2014 the Firm recorded a $291 million adjustment
to reduce the PCI allowance and the recorded investment in the Firm’ s PCI loan portfolio, primarily reflecting the cumulative ef fect of interest for giveness modifications. This adjustment had no
impact to the Firm’ s Consolidated statements of income.
 307
Summary of loan and lending-r elated commitments loss experience
Allowance for lending-related commitments
(Unaudited)
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Balance at beginning of year $ 1,068$ 1,078$ 786$ 622$ 705
Provision for lending-related commitments (14) (10) 281 164 (85)
Other 1 — 11 — 2
Balance at year-end $ 1,055$ 1,068$ 1,078$ 786$ 622
Loan loss analysis    
(Unaudited)
As of or for the year ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Balances    
Loans – average $ 944,885 $ 906,397$ 866,378$ 787,318$ 739,175
Loans – year-end 984,554 930,697 894,765 837,299 757,336
Net charge-offs 4,856 5,387 4,692 4,086 4,759
Allowance for loan losses:    
U.S. $ 12,692 $ 12,552$ 12,738$ 12,704$ 13,472
Non-U.S. 753 1,052 1,038 851 713
Total allowance for loan losses $ 13,445 $ 13,604$ 13,776$ 13,555$ 14,185
Nonaccrual loans $ 4,831 $ 5,943$ 6,883$ 6,429$ 7,133
Ratios    
Net charge-offs to:    
Loans retained – average 0.52% 0.60% 0.54% 0.52% 0.65%
Allowance for loan losses 36.12 39.60 34.06 30.14 33.55
Allowance for loan losses to:    
Loans retained – year-end(a) 1.39 1.47 1.55 1.63 1.90
Nonaccrual loans retained 292 229 205 215 202
(a)The allowance for loan losses as a percentage of retained loans declined from 2014 to 2018, due to improvement in credit quality of the consumer and wholesale credit portfolios.
For a more detailed discussion of the 2016 through 2018 provision for credit losses, refer to Provision for credit losses on page 122.
308  
Deposits
The following table provides a summary of the average balances and average interest rates of JPMorgan Chase’s various deposits for the years
indicated.
(Unaudited)
Year ended December 31, Average balances Average interest rates
(in millions, except interest rates) 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017  2016
U.S. offices       
Noninterest-bearing $ 377,806 $ 387,424 $ 386,528 —% —% —%
Interest-bearing       
Demand(a) 177,403 162,985 128,046 1.09 0.50 0.18
Savings(b) 585,885 559,654 515,982 0.32 0.15 0.09
Time 53,017 53,410 59,710 1.44 1.02 0.59
Total interest-bearing deposits 816,305 776,049 703,738 0.56 0.29 0.15
Total deposits in U.S. offices 1,194,111 1,163,473 1,090,266 0.38 0.19 0.09
Non-U.S. offices       
Noninterest-bearing 18,050 16,741 16,170 — — —
Interest-bearing       
Demand 210,978 213,733 198,919 0.45 0.18 0.10
Savings — — — NM NM NM
Time 33,322 23,439 22,613 1.39 1.08 0.56
Total interest-bearing deposits 244,300 237,172 221,532 0.58 0.27 0.15
Total deposits in non-U.S. offices 262,350 253,913 237,702 0.54 0.25 0.14
Total deposits $ 1,456,461 $ 1,417,386 $ 1,327,968 0.41% 0.20% 0.10%
(a)Includes Negotiable Order of Withdrawal (“NOW”) accounts, and certain trust accounts.
(b)Includes Money Market Deposit Accounts (“MMDAs”).
At December 31, 2018, other U.S. time deposits in denominations of $100,000 or more totaled $15.5 billion, substantially all of which mature in
three months or less. In addition, the table below presents the maturities for U.S. time certificates of deposit in denominations of $100,000 or more.
(Unaudited)
By remaining maturity at
December 31, 2018
(in millions)Three months
or less  Over three
months
but within six
monthsOver six months
 but within 12
months Over 12 months Total
U.S. time certificates of deposit ($100,000 or more) $ 6,274 $ 3,265 $ 3,166 $ 6,740 $ 19,445
 309
Short-term and other  borr owed funds
The following table provides a summary of JPMorgan Chase’s short-term and other borrowed funds for the years indicated.
(Unaudited)
As of or for the year ended December 31, (in millions, except rates) 2018 2017 2016
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements:    
Balance at year-end $ 182,320 $ 158,916 $ 165,666
Average daily balance during the year 189,282 187,386 178,720
Maximum month-end balance 201,340 205,286 207,211
Weighted-average rate at December 31 2.18% 1.03% 0.50%
Weighted-average rate during the year 1.62 0.86 0.61
    
Commercial paper:    
Balance at year-end $ 30,059 $ 24,186 $ 11,738
Average daily balance during the year 27,834 19,920 15,001
Maximum month-end balance 30,470 24,934 19,083
Weighted-average rate at December 31 2.71% 1.59% 1.13%
Weighted-average rate during the year 2.27 1.39 0.90
    
Other borrowed funds:(a)    
Balance at year-end $ 101,513 $ 87,652 $ 89,154
Average daily balance during the year 108,436 96,331 93,252
Maximum month-end balance 125,544 107,157 102,310
Weighted-average rate at December 31 2.23% 2.09% 1.79%
Weighted-average rate during the year 2.06 1.98 1.93
    
Short-term beneficial interests:(b)    
Commercial paper and other borrowed funds:    
Balance at year-end $ 6,527 $ 4,310 $ 5,688
Average daily balance during the year 4,756 5,327 8,296
Maximum month-end balance 6,527 7,573 10,494
Weighted-average rate at December 31 2.53% 1.50% 0.83%
Weighted-average rate during the year 2.10 1.07 0.67
(a)Includes interest-bearing securities sold but not yet purchased of $62.3 billion, $60.0 billion and $66.4 billion at December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
(b)Included on the Consolidated balance sheets in beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs.
Federal funds purchased represent overnight funds. Securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements generally mature between one and ninety
days. Commercial paper generally is issued in amounts not less than $100,000, and with maturities of 270 days or less. Other borrowed funds
consist of demand notes, term federal funds purchased, and various other borrowings that generally have maturities of one year or less.
310  
Signatures
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
behalf of the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.
        (Registrant)
 By: /s/ JAMES DIMON
 
 (James Dimon
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer)
 February 26, 2019
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacity and on the date indicated. JPMorgan Chase & Co. does not exercise the power of attorney to sign on behalf of any
Director.
 Capacity  Date
/s/ JAMES DIMONDirector, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 (Principal Executive Officer)  
(James Dimon)   
/s/ LINDA B. BAMMANN Director   
(Linda B. Bammann)   
/s/ JAMES A. BELL Director   
(James A. Bell)   
/s/ STEPHEN B. BURKE Director   
(Stephen B. Burke)    
/s/ TODD A. COMBS Director   
(Todd A. Combs)   
/s/ JAMES S. CROWN Director  February 26, 2019
(James S. Crown)    
/s/ TIMOTHY P. FLYNN Director   
(Timothy P. Flynn)    
/s/ MELLODY HOBSON Director   
(Mellody Hobson)   
/s/ LABAN P. JACKSON, JR. Director   
(Laban P. Jackson, Jr.)    
/s/ MICHAEL A. NEAL Director   
(Michael A. Neal)   
/s/ LEE R. RAYMOND Director   
(Lee R. Raymond)    
/s/ WILLIAM C. WELDON Director   
 (William C. Weldon)   
/s/ MARIANNE LAKE Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer)  
(Marianne Lake)   
/s/ NICOLE GILES Managing Director and Firmwide Controller
(Principal Accounting Officer)  
(Nicole Giles)   
 311
