UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
☒ ANNU AL REPOR T PURSU ANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EX CHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the ﬁscal year ended September 30 , 2023
or
☐ TRANSITION REPOR T PURSU ANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EX CHANGE ACT OF
1934
For the transition period fr om               to              .
Commission F ile Number : 001-36743
Apple Inc.
(Exact name of R egistrant as speciﬁed in its charter)
California 94-2404110
(State or other jurisdiction
of incorporation or organization)(I.R.S. Employer Identiﬁcation No.)
One Apple P ark W ay
Cupertino , California 95014
(Address of principal executive oﬃces) (Zip Code)
(408) 996-1010
(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each classTrading
symbol(s) Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock, $0.00001 par value per share AAPL The Nasdaq Stock Mark et LLC
1.375% Notes due 2024 — The Nasdaq Stock Mark et LLC
0.000% Notes due 2025 — The Nasdaq Stock Mark et LLC
0.875% Notes due 2025 — The Nasdaq Stock Mark et LLC
1.625% Notes due 2026 — The Nasdaq Stock Mark et LLC
2.000% Notes due 2027 — The Nasdaq Stock Mark et LLC
1.375% Notes due 2029 — The Nasdaq Stock Mark et LLC
3.050% Notes due 2029 — The Nasdaq Stock Mark et LLC
0.500% Notes due 2031 — The Nasdaq Stock Mark et LLC
3.600% Notes due 2042 — The Nasdaq Stock Mark et LLC
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as deﬁned in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Yes  ☒     No  ☐
Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to ﬁle reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
Yes  ☐     No  ☒
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has ﬁled all reports required to be ﬁled by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to ﬁle such
reports), and (2) has been subject to such ﬁling requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes  ☒     No  ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted
pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that
the Registrant was required to submit such ﬁles).
Yes  ☒     No  ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated ﬁler, an accelerated ﬁler, a non-accelerated ﬁler, a smaller
reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the deﬁnitions of “large accelerated ﬁler,” “accelerated ﬁler,” “smaller
reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated ﬁler ☒ Accelerated ﬁler ☐
Non-accelerated ﬁler ☐ Smaller reporting company ☐
Emerging growth company ☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the Registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for
complying with any new or revised ﬁnancial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has ﬁled a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the
eﬀectiveness of its internal control over ﬁnancial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by
the registered public accounting ﬁrm that prepared or issued its audit report. ☒
If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the ﬁnancial statements of the
registrant included in the ﬁling reﬂect the correction of an error to previously issued ﬁnancial statements. ☐
Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-
based compensation received by any of the registrant’s executive oﬃcers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to
§240.10D-1(b). ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as deﬁned in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).
Yes  ☐     No  ☒
The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting stock held by non-aﬃliates of the Registrant, as of March 31, 2023, the
last business day of the Registrant’s most recently completed second ﬁscal quarter, was approximately $2,591,165,000,000. Solely
for purposes of this disclosure, shares of common stock held by executive oﬃcers and directors of the Registrant as of such date
have been excluded because such persons may be deemed to be aﬃliates. This determination of executive oﬃcers and directors
as aﬃliates is not necessarily a conclusive determination for any other purposes.
15,552,752,000 shares of common stock were issued and outstanding as of October 20, 2023.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORA TED B Y REFERENCE
Portions of the Registrant’s deﬁnitive proxy statement relating to its 2024 annual meeting of shareholders are incorporated by
reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K where indicated. The Registrant’s deﬁnitive proxy statement will be ﬁled
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the ﬁscal year to which this report relates.
Apple Inc.
Form 10-K
For the Fiscal Y ear Ended September 30, 2023
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Part I
Item 1. Business 1
Item 1A . Risk F actors 5
Item 1B. Unresolved Staﬀ Comments 16
Item 1C. Cybersecurity 16
Item 2. Properties 17
Item 3. Legal P roceedings 17
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosur es 17
Part II
Item 5. Mark et for R egistrant’s Common Equity, R elated Stockholder Matters and Issuer P urchases of
Equity Securities18
Item 6. [Reserved] 19
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of F inancial Condition and R esults of Operations 20
Item 7A . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosur es About Mark et Risk 26
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 27
Item 9. Changes in and Disagr eements with A ccountants on A ccounting and F inancial Disclosur e 52
Item 9A . Contr ols and P rocedur es 52
Item 9B. Other Infor mation 53
Item 9C. Disclosur e Regarding F oreign Jurisdictions that P revent Inspections 53
Part III
Item 10. Directors, Ex ecutive Oﬃcers and Corporate Gover nance 53
Item 11. Executive Compensation 53
Item 12 .Security Ownership of Certain Beneﬁcial Owners and Management and R elated Stockholder
Matters 53
Item 13 . Certain R elationships and R elated T ransactions, and Dir ector Independence 53
Item 14. Principal A ccountant F ees and Services 53
Part IV
Item 15. Exhibit and F inancial Statement Schedules 54
Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 57
This Annua l Report on Form 10-K (“Form 10-K”) contains forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that involve risks and uncertainties. Many of the forward-looking
statements are located in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K under the heading “Busin ess” and Part II, Item 7 of this
Form 10-K under the heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.” Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain
assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. For example,
statements in this Form 10-K regarding the potential future impact of macroeconomic conditions on the Company’s
business and results of operations are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can also be
identiﬁed by words such as “future,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,”
“predicts,” “will,” “would,” “could,” “can,” “may ,” and similar terms. Forward-looking  statements are not guarantees
of future performance and the Company’s actual results may diﬀer signiﬁcantly from the results discussed in the
forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such diﬀerences include, but are not limited to, those
discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading “Risk Factors.” The Company assumes no obligation
to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law .
Unless otherwise stated, all information presented herein is based on the Company’s ﬁscal calendar , and references
to particular years, quarters, months or periods refer to the Company’s ﬁscal years ended in September and the
associated quarters, months and periods of those ﬁscal years. Each of the terms the “Company” and “Apple” as
used herein refers collectively to Apple Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated.
PART I
Item 1.    Business
Company Background
The Comp any designs, manufactur es and mark ets smartphones, personal computers, tablets, wearables and
accessories, and sells a variety of related services. The Company’s ﬁscal year is the 52- or 53-week period that ends
on the last Satur day of September .
Products
iPhone
iPhone  is the Company’s line of smartphones based on its iOS operating system. The iPhone line includes iPhone
15 Pro, iPhone 15, iPhone 14, iPhone 13 and iPhone SE .
Mac
Mac  is the Company’s line of personal computers based on its macOS  operating system. The Mac line includes
laptops MacBook Air  and MacBook P ro, as well as desktops iMac , Mac mini , Mac Studio  and Mac P ro.
iPad
iPad is the Company’s line of multipurpose tablets based on its iPadOS  operating system. The iPad line includes
iPad Pro, iPad Air , iPad and iP ad mini .
Wearables, Home and Accessories
Wearables includes smartwatches and wireless headphones. The Company’s line of smartwatches, based on its
watchOS  operating system, includes Apple Watch Ultra™ 2, Apple Watch  Series 9 and Apple Watch SE. The
Company’s line of wir eless headphones includes AirP ods , AirP ods P ro, AirP ods Max™ and Beats  products.
Home includes Apple  TV, the Company’s media streaming and gaming device based on its tvOS  operating
system, and HomeP od and HomeP od mini , high-ﬁdelity wir eless smart speak ers.
Accessories includes Apple-branded and thir d-party accessories.®
®
® ®
® ® ® ® ® ®
® ®
® ® ®
® ® ®
® ® ®
® ®
® ®
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 1
Services
Advertising
The Company’s advertising services includ e third-party licensing arrangements and the Company’s own advertising
platfor ms.
AppleCare
The Company oﬀers a portfolio of fee-b ased service and support products under the AppleCar e brand. The
oﬀerings provide priority access to Apple technical support, access to the global Apple authorized service network
for repair and replacement services, and in many cases additional coverage for instances of accidental damage or
theft and loss, depending on the country and type of pr oduct.
Cloud Services
The Company’s cloud services store and keep customers’ content up-to -date and available across multiple Apple
devices and W indows personal computers.
Digital Content
The Company operates various platfor ms, including the App Store, that allow customers to discover and download
applications and digital content, such as books, music, video, games and podcasts.
The Company also oﬀers digital content through subscription-based services, including Apple Arcade , a game
subscription service; Apple Fitness+ , a persona lized ﬁtness service; Apple Music , which oﬀers users a curated
listening experience with on-demand radio stations; Apple News+ , a subscription news and magazine servic e; and
Apple TV+ , which oﬀers e xclusive original content and live sports.
Payment Services
The Company oﬀers payment services, including Apple Card, a co-branded credit card, and Apple Pay, a cashless
payment service.
Segments
The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis. The Company’s reportable segments consist of
the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest of Asia Paciﬁc. Americas includes both North and South
America. Europe includes European countries, as well as India, the Middle East and Africa. Greater China includes
China mainland, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Rest of Asia Paciﬁc includes Australia and those Asian countries not
included in the Comp any’s other reportable segments. Although the reportable segm ents provide similar hardwar e
and software products and similar services , each one is managed separately to better align with the location of the
Company’s customers and distribution partners and the unique mark et dynamics of each geographic r egion.
Mark ets and Distribution
The Company’s customers are primarily in the consumer, small and mid-sized business, education, enterprise and
gover nment mark ets. The Company sells its products and resells third-party products in most of its major mark ets
directly to customers through its retail and online stores and its direct sales force. The Company also employs a
variety of indirect distribution channels, such as third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and
resellers. During 2023, the Company’s net sales through its direct and indirect distribution channels accounted for
37% and 63%, r espectively, of total net sales.
Competition
The mark ets for the Company’s products and services are highly competitive, and are characterized by aggressive
price competition and resulting downwar d pressur e on gross margins, frequent introduction of new products and
services, short product life cycles, evolving industry standar ds, continual improvement in product price and
perfor mance characteristics, rapid adoption of technological advancements by competitors, and price sensitivity on
the part of consume rs and businesses. Many of the Company’s competitors seek to compete primarily through
aggressive pricing and very low cost structur es, and by imitating the Company’s products and infringing on its
intellectual pr operty .®
®
®
SM ®
®
®
® ®
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 2
The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends heavily on ensuring the continuing and timely introduction
of innovative new products, services and technologies to the mark etplace. The Company designs and develops
nearly the entire solution for its products, including the hardwar e, operating system, numer ous software applications
and related services. Principal competitive factors important to the Company include price, product and service
featur es (including security featur es), relative price and perfor mance, product and service quality and reliability,
design innovation, a strong third-party software and accessories ecosystem, mark eting and distribution capability,
service and support, and corporate r eputation.
The Company is focused on expanding its mark et opportunities related to smartphones, personal computers,
tablets, wearables and accessories, and services. The Company faces substantial competition in these mark ets from
companies that have signiﬁcant technica l, mark eting, distribution and other resour ces, as well as established
hardwar e, software, and service oﬀerings with large customer bases. In addition, some of the Company’s
competitors have broader product lines, lower -priced products and a larger installed base of active devices.
Competition has been particularly intense as competitors have aggressively cut prices and lower ed product margins.
Certain competitors have the resour ces, experience or cost structur es to provide products at little or no proﬁt or
even at a loss. The Company’s services compete with business models that provide content to users for free and use
illegitimate means to obtain third-party digital content and applications. The Compan y faces signiﬁcant competition
as competitors imitate the Company’s product featur es and applications within their products, or collaborate to oﬀer
integrated solutions that ar e mor e competitive than those they cur rently oﬀer .
Supply of Components
Although most comp onents essential to the Company’s business are generally available from multiple sources,
certain components are currently obtained from single or limited sources. The Company also competes for various
components with other participants in the mark ets for smartphones, personal computers, tablets, wearables and
accessories. Therefore, many components  used by the Company, including those that are available from multiple
sources, ar e at times subject to industry -wide shortage and signiﬁcant commodity pricing ﬂuctuations.
The Company uses some custom components that are not commonly used by its competitors, and new products
introduced by the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When a component or
product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may e xist until the suppliers’ yields have matur ed or their
manufacturing capacities have increased. The continued availability of these compon ents at acceptable prices, or at
all, may be aﬀected if suppliers decide to concentrate on the production of common components instead of
components customized to meet the Company’s r equir ements.
The Company has enter ed into agreements for the supply of many components; however, there can be no
guarantee that the Company will be able to e xtend or r enew these agr eements on similar ter ms, or at all.
Research and Development
Because the industries in which the Company competes are characterized by rapid technological advances, the
Company’s ability to compete successfully  depends heavily upon its ability to ensur e a continual and timely ﬂow of
competitive products, services and technologies to the mark etplace. The Compa ny continues to develop new
technologies to enhance existing products and services, and to expand the range of its oﬀerings through resear ch
and development (“R&D”), licensing of intellectual property and acquisition of third-party businesses and
technology .
Intellectual Property
The Company currently holds a broad collection of intellectual property rights relating to certain aspects of its
hardwar e devices, accessories, software and services. This includes patents, designs, copyrights, trademarks and
other forms of intellectual property rights in the U.S. and various foreign countries. Although the Company believes
the ownership of such intellectual property rights is an important factor in diﬀer entiating its business and that its
success does depend in part on such ownership, the Company relies primarily on the innovative skills, technical
competence and mark eting abilities of its personnel.
The Compa ny regularly ﬁles patent, design, copyright and trademark applications to protect innovations arising
from its resear ch, development, design and mark eting, and is currently pursuing thousands of applications around
the world. Over time, the Company has accumulated a large portfolio of issued and register ed intellectual property
rights around the world. No single intellectual property right is solely responsible for protecting the Company’s
products and services. The Company believes the duration of its intellectual property rights is adequate relative to
the e xpected lives of its pr oducts and services.
In addition to Compan y-owned intellectual property, many of the Company’s produc ts and services are designed to
include intellectual property owned by third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses
relating to various aspects of the Compan y’s products, processes and services. While the Company has generally
been able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms in the past, there is no guarantee that such
licenses could be obtained in the futur e on r easonable ter ms or at all.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 3
Business Seasonality and Product Introductions
The Company has historically experienced higher net sales in its ﬁrst quarter compar ed to other quarters in its ﬁscal
year due in part to seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product and service  introductions can signiﬁcantly
impact net sales, cost of sales and operating expenses. The timing of product introductions can also impact the
Company’s net sales to its indirect distribu tion channels as these channels are ﬁlled with new inventory following a
product launch, and channel inventory of an older product often declines as the launch of a newer product
approaches. Net sales can also be aﬀected when consumers and distributors anticipate a pr oduct intr oduction.
Human Capital
The Company believes it has a talented, motivated and dedicated team, and works to create an inclusive, safe and
supportive envir onment for all of its team members. As of September  30, 2023, the Company had approximately
161,000 full-time equivalent employees.
Workplace Practices and Policies
The Company is an equal opportunity employer committed to inclusion and diversity and to providing a workplace
free of harassment or discrimination.
Compensation and Beneﬁts
The Company believes that compensation  should be competitive and equitable, and should enable employees to
share in the Company’s success. The Company recognizes its people are most likely to thrive when they have the
resour ces to meet their needs and the time and support to succeed in their professional and personal lives. In
support of this, the Company oﬀers a wide variety of beneﬁts for employees around  the world and invests in tools
and r esour ces that ar e designed to support employees’ individual gr owth and development.
Inclusion and Diversity
The Company is comm itted to its vision to build and sustain a more inclusive workfo rce that is representative of the
communities it serves. The Company continues to work to increase diverse representation at every level, foster an
inclusive cultur e, and support equitable pay and access to opportunity for all employees.
Engagement
The Company believes that open and honest communication among team members, managers and leaders helps
create an open, collaborative work envir onment wher e everyone can contribute, grow and succeed. Team members
are encour aged to come to their manag ers with questions, feedback or concer ns, and the Company conducts
surveys that gauge employee sentiment in ar eas lik e car eer development, manager perfor mance and inclusivity .
Health and Safety
The Company is committed to protectin g its team members everywher e it operates. The Company identiﬁes
potential workplace risks in order to develop measur es to mitigate possible hazar ds. The Company supports
employees with general safety, security and crisis management training, and by putting speciﬁc programs in place
for those working in potentially high-haza rd envir onments. Additionally, the Company works to protect the safety
and security of its team members, visitors and customers thr ough its global security team.
Available Information
The Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and
amendments to reports ﬁled pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the “Exchange Act”), are ﬁled with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC ”). Such
reports and other information ﬁled by the Company with the SEC are available free of charge at
investor .apple.com/investor -relations/sec-ﬁlings/default.aspx when such reports are available on the SEC’s website.
The Company periodically provides certain  information for investors on its corporate website, www.apple.com, and
its investor relations website, investor .apple.com. This includes press releases and other information about ﬁnancial
perfor mance, information on envir onmental, social and gover nance matters, and details related to the Company’s
annual meeting of shareholders. The information contained on the websites referenced in this Form 10-K is not
incorporated by reference into this ﬁling. Further, the Company’s references to website URLs are intended to be
inactive te xtual r eferences only .
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 4
Item 1A .    Risk F actors
The Company’s business, reputation, results of operations, ﬁnancial condition and stock price can be aﬀected by a
number of factors, whether currently known or unknown, including those described below . When any one or more of
these risks materialize from time to time, the Company’s business, reputation, results of operations, ﬁnancial
condition and stock price can be materially and adversely aﬀected.
Because of the following factors, as well as other factors aﬀecting the Company’s results of operations and ﬁnancial
condition, past ﬁnancial perfor mance should not be consider ed to be a reliable indicator of futur e perfor mance, and
investors should not use historical trends  to anticipate results or trends in futur e periods. This discussion of risk
factors contains forwar d-looking statements.
This section should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” and the consolidated ﬁnancial statements and accompanying notes in Part II,
Item 8, “ Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this F orm 10-K.
Macroeconomic and Industry Risks
The Comp any’s operations and performance depend signiﬁcantly on global and regional economic
conditions and adverse economic conditions can materially adversely aﬀect the Company’s business,
results of operations and ﬁnancial condition.
The Compa ny has international operations with sales outside the U.S. representing a majority of the Company’s
total net sales. In addition, the Company’s global supply chain is large and comple x and a majority of the Company’s
supplier facilities, including manufacturin g and assembly sites, are located outside the U.S. As a result, the
Company’s operations and perfor mance depend signiﬁcantly on global and r egional economic conditions.
Adverse macr oeconomic conditions, including slow growth or recession, high unemployment, inﬂation, tighter credit,
higher interest rates, and currency ﬂuctuations, can adversely impact consumer conﬁdence and spending and
materially adversely aﬀect demand for the Company’s products and services. In addition, consumer conﬁdence and
spending can be materially adversely aﬀected in response to changes in ﬁscal and monetary policy, ﬁnancial mark et
volatility, declines in income or asset values, and other economic factors.
In addition to an adverse impact on demand for the Company’s products and services, uncertainty about, or a
decline in, global or regional economic conditions can have a signiﬁcant impact on the Company’s suppliers,
contract manufactur ers, logistics providers, distributors, cellular network carriers and other channel partners, and
developers. Potential outcomes include ﬁnancial instability; inability to obtain credit to ﬁnance business operations;
and insolvency .
Adverse economic conditions can also lead to increased credit and collectibility  risk on the Company’s trade
receivables; the failur e of derivative counterparties and other ﬁnancial institutions ; limitations on the Company’s
ability to issue new debt; reduced liquidity; and declines in the fair values of the Company’s ﬁnancial instruments.
These and other impacts can materially adversely aﬀect the Company’s business, results of operations, ﬁnancial
condition and stock price.
The Comp any’s business can be impa cted by political events, trade and other international disputes,
war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues, industrial accidents and other business
interruptions.
Political events, trade and other international disputes, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues,
industrial accidents and other business interruptions can harm or disrupt international commer ce and the global
economy, and could have a material adverse eﬀect on the Company and its customers, suppliers, contract
manufactur ers, logistics pr oviders, distributors, cellular network car riers and other channel partners.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 5
The Company has a large, global business with sales outside the U.S. representing a majority of the Company’s total
net sales, and the Company believes that it generally beneﬁts from growth in international trade. Substantially all of
the Company’s manufacturing is perfor med in whole or in part by outsour cing partners located primarily in China
mainland, India, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Vietnam. Restrictions on international trade, such as tariﬀs and
other contr ols on imports or exports of goods, technology or data, can materially adversely aﬀect the Company’s
operations and supply chain and limit the Company’s ability to oﬀer and distribute its products and services to
customers. The impact can be particularly  signiﬁcant if these restrictive measur es apply to countries and regions
wher e the Company derives a signiﬁcant portion of its revenues and/or has signiﬁcant supply chain operations.
Restrictive measur es can requir e the Company to take various actions, including changing suppliers, restructuring
business relationships, and ceasing to oﬀer third-party applications on its platfo rms. Changing the Company’s
operations in accor dance with new or chan ged restrictions on international trade can be expensive, time-consuming
and disruptive to the Company’s operation s. Such restrictions can be announced with little or no advance notice and
the Company may not be able to eﬀectively mitigate all adverse impacts from such measur es. For example,
tensions between governments, including the U.S. and China, have in the past led to tariﬀs and other restrictions
being imposed on the Company’s business. If disputes and conﬂicts further escalate in the futur e, actions by
gover nments in response could be signiﬁca ntly more sever e and restrictive and could materially adversely aﬀect the
Company’s business.  Political uncertainty surrounding trade and other international disputes could also have a
negative eﬀect on consumer conﬁdence and spending, which could adversely aﬀect the Company’s business.
Many of the Company’s operations and facilities, as well as critical business operations of the Company’s suppliers
and contract manufactur ers, are in locations that are prone to earthquak es and other natural disasters. In addition,
such opera tions and facilities are subject to the risk of interruption by ﬁre, power shortages, nuclear power plant
accidents and other industrial accident s, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, ransomwar e and other
cybersecurity attacks , labor disputes, public health issues, including pandemics such as the COVID-19 pandemic,
and other events beyond the Company’s contr ol. Global climate change is resulting in certain types of natural
disasters, such as droughts, ﬂoods, hurricanes and wildﬁr es, occur ring more frequent ly or with more intense eﬀects.
Such events can make it diﬃcult or impossible for the Company to manufactu re and deliver products to its
customers, create delays and ineﬃciencies in the Company’s supply and manufacturing chain, and result in
slowdowns and outages to the Company’s service oﬀerings, and negatively impact consumer spending and demand
in aﬀected  areas. Following an interruption to its business, the Company can requir e substantial recovery time,
experience signiﬁcant  expenditur es to resume operations, and lose signiﬁcant sales. Because the Company relies on
single or limited sources for the supply and manufactur e of many critical compo nents, a business interruption
aﬀecting such sour ces would e xacerbate any negative consequences to the Company .
The Company’s operations are also subject to the risks of industrial accidents at its suppliers and contract
manufactur ers. While the Company’s suppliers are requir ed to maintain safe working envir onments and operations,
an industrial accident could occur and could result in serious injuries or loss of life, disruption to the Company’s
business, and harm to the Company’s reputation. Major public health issues, including pandemics such as the
COVID-19 pandemic, have adversely aﬀected, and could in the futur e materially adversely aﬀect, the Company due
to their impact on the global economy and demand for consumer products; the impos ition of protective public safety
measur es, such as stringent employee travel restrictions and limitations on freight services and the movement of
products between regions; and disruption s in the Company’s operations, supply chain and sales and distribution
channels, resulting in interruptions to the supply of current products and oﬀering of existing services, and delays in
production ramps of new pr oducts and development of new services.
While the Company maintains insurance coverage for certain types of losses, such insurance coverage may be
insuﬃcient to cover all losses that may arise.
Global mark ets for the Company’s products and services are highly comp etitive and subject to rapid
technological change, and the Company ma y be unable to compete eﬀectively in these mark ets.
The Company’s products and services are oﬀered in highly competitive global mark ets characterized by aggressive
price competition and resulting downwar d pressur e on gross margins, frequent introduction of new products and
services, short product life cycles, evolving industry standar ds, continual improvement in product price and
perfor mance characteristics, rapid adoption of technological advancements by competitors, and price sensitivity on
the part of consumers and businesses.
The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends heavily on ensuring the continuing and timely introduction
of innovative new products, services and technologies to the mark etplace. The Company designs and develops
nearly the entire solution for its products, including the hardwar e, operating system, numer ous software applications
and related services. As a result, the Company must make signiﬁcant investments in R&D. There can be no
assurance these investments will achieve expected returns, and the Company may not be able to develop and
mark et new pr oducts and services successfully .
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 6
The Company currently holds a signiﬁcant number of patents, trademarks and copy rights and has register ed, and
applied to register, additional patents, trademarks and copyrights. In contrast, many of the Company’s competitors
seek to compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structur es, and by imitating the Company’s
products and infringi ng on its intellectual property . Eﬀective intellectual property protection is not consistently
available in every country in which the Company operates. If the Company is unable to continue to develop and sell
innovative new products with attractive margins or if competitors infringe on the Company’s intellectual property,
the Company’s ability to maintain a competitive advantage could be materially adversely aﬀected.
The Company has a minority mark et share in the global smartphone, personal computer and tablet mark ets. The
Company faces substantial competition in these mark ets from companies that have signiﬁcant technical, mark eting,
distribution and other resour ces, as well as established hardwar e, software and digital content supplier relationships.
In addition, some of the Company’s competitors have broader product lines, lower -priced products and a larger
installed base of active devices. Competi tion has been particularly intense as competitors have aggressively cut
prices and lower ed product margins. Certain competitors have the resour ces, experience or cost structur es to
provide products at little or no proﬁt or even at a loss. Some of the mark ets in which the Company competes have
from time to time e xperienced little to no gr owth or contracted overall.
Additionally, the Company faces signiﬁcant competition as competitors imitate the Company’s product featur es and
applications within their products or collaborate to oﬀer solutions that are more competitive than those they
currently oﬀer. The Company also expects competition to intensif y as competitors imitate the Company’s approach
to providing components seamlessly within their oﬀerings or work collaboratively to oﬀer integrated solutions.
The Company’s services also face substan tial competition, including from companies that have signiﬁcant resour ces
and experience and have established service oﬀerings with large customer bases . The Company competes with
business models that provide content to users for free. The Company also competes with illegitimate means to
obtain thir d-party digital content and applications.
The Company’s business, results of operat ions and ﬁnancial condition depend substa ntially on the Company’s ability
to continually improve its products and services to maintain their functional and design advantages. There can be
no assurance the Company will be able to continue to pr ovide pr oducts and services that compete eﬀectively .
Business Risks
To remain  competitive and stimulate customer demand, the Company must successfully manage
frequent introductions and transitions of products and services.
Due to the highly volatile and competitive natur e of the mark ets and industries in which the Company competes,
the Company must continually introduce new products, services and technologies, enhance existing products and
services, eﬀectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products and services, and successfully
manage the transition to these new and upgraded products and services. The success of new product and service
introductions depends on a number of factors, including timely and successful development, mark et acceptance, the
Company’s ability to manage the risks associated with new technologies and production ramp-up issues, the
availability of application software for the Company’s products, the eﬀectiv e management of purchase
commitments and inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, the availability of products in
appropriate quantities and at expected costs to meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products and
services may have quality or other defects or deﬁciencies. There can be no assurance the Company will successfully
manage futur e intr oductions and transitions of pr oducts and services.
The Company depends on component  and product manufacturing and logistical services provided by
outsourcing partners, many of which are located outside of the U.S.
Substantially all of the Company’s manufacturing is perfor med in whole or in part by outsour cing partners located
primarily in China mainland, India, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Vietnam, and a signiﬁcant concentration of this
manufacturing is currently perfor med by a small number of outsour cing partners, often in single locations. Changes
or additions to the Company’s supply chain requir e considerable time and resour ces and involve signiﬁcant risks and
uncertainties. The Company has also outso urced much of its transportation and logistics management. While these
arrangements can lower operating costs , they also reduce the Company’s direct contr ol over production and
distribution. Such diminished contr ol has from time to time and may in the futur e have an adverse eﬀect on the
quality or quantity of products manufactur ed or services provided, or adversely aﬀect the Company’s ﬂexibility to
respond to changing conditions. Although  arrangements with these partners may contain provisions for product
defect expense reimbursement, the Company generally remains responsible to the consumer for warranty and out-
of-warranty service in the event of product defects and experiences unanticipated  product defect liabilities from
time to time. While the Company relies on its partners to adher e to its supplier code of conduct, violations of the
supplier code of conduct occur from time to time and can materially adversely aﬀect the Company’s business,
reputation, r esults of operations and ﬁnancial condition.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 7
The Company relies on single-sour ce outsour cing partners in the U.S., Asia and Europe to supply and manufactur e
many components, and on outsour cing partners primarily located in Asia, for ﬁnal assembly of substantially all of
the Company’s hardwar e products. Any failur e of these partners to perfor m can have a negative impact on the
Company’s cost or supply of components or ﬁnished goods. In addition, manufacturing or logistics in these locations
or transit to ﬁnal destinations can be disru pted for a variety of reasons, including natural and man-made disasters,
information technolo gy system failur es, commer cial disputes, armed conﬂict , economic, business, labor,
envir onmental, public health or political issues, or inter national trade disputes.
The Company has invested in manufacturing process equipment, much of which is held at certain of its outsour cing
partners, and has made prepayments to certain of its suppliers associated with long- term supply agreements. While
these arrangements help ensur e the supply of components and ﬁnished goods, if these outsour cing partners or
suppliers experience sever e ﬁnancial problems or other disruptions in their business, such continued supply can be
reduced or terminated, and the recoverability of manufacturing process equipment or prepayments can be
negatively impacted.
Future operating results depend upon the Company’s ability to obtain  components in suﬃcient
quantities on commercially reasonable terms.
Because the Compan y currently obtains certain components from single or limited sources, the Company is subject
to signiﬁcant supply and pricing risks. Many components, including those that are available from multiple sources,
are at times subject to industry -wide shortages and signiﬁcant commodity pricing ﬂuctuations that can materially
adversely aﬀect the Company’s business , results of operations and ﬁnancial condition. For example, the global
semiconductor industry has in the past experienced high demand and shortages of supply, which adversely aﬀected
the Compa ny’s ability  to obtain suﬃcient quantities of components and products on commer cially reasonable terms
or at all. Such disrupt ions could occur in the futur e. While the Company has enter ed into agreements for the supply
of many components, there can be no assurance the Company will be able to extend  or renew these agreements on
similar terms, or at all. Component suppliers may suﬀer from poor ﬁnancial conditions, which can lead to business
failur e for the supplier or consolidation within a particular industry, further limiting the Company’s ability to obtain
suﬃcient quantities of components on commer cially reasonable terms or at all. The eﬀects of global or regional
economic conditions on the Company’s suppliers, described in “The Company’s operations and performance depend
signiﬁcantly on global and regional econom ic conditions and adverse economic conditions can materially adversely
aﬀect the Company’s  business, results of operations and ﬁnancial condition, ” above, can also aﬀect the Company’s
ability to obtain components . Therefore, the Company remains subject to signiﬁcant risks of supply shortages and
price incr eases that can materially adversely aﬀect its business, r esults of operations and ﬁnancial condition.
The Company’s new products often utilize  custom components available from only one source. When a component
or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have matur ed or
their manufacturing capacities have increased. The continued availability of these components at acceptable prices,
or at all, can be aﬀected for any number of reasons, including if suppliers decide to concentrate on the production of
common components instead of components customized to meet the Company’s requir ements. When the
Company’s supply of components for a new or existing product has been delaye d or constrained, or when an
outsour cing partner has delayed shipment s of completed products to the Company, the Company’s business, results
of operations and ﬁnancial condition have been adversely aﬀected and futur e delays or constraints could materially
adversely aﬀect the Company’s business, results of operations and ﬁnancial conditio n. The Company’s business and
ﬁnancial perfor manc e could also be materially adversely aﬀected depending on the time requir ed to obtain
suﬃcient quantities fr om the sour ce, or to identif y and obtain suﬃcient quantities fr om an alter native sour ce.
The Company’s products and services  may be aﬀected from time to time by design and manufacturing
defects that could materially adversely aﬀect the Company’s business and result in harm to the
Company’s reputation.
The Company oﬀers comple x hardwar e and software products and services that can be aﬀected by design and
manufacturing defects. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such as those oﬀered by the
Company, often have issues that can unexpectedly interfer e with the intended operation of hardwar e or software
products and services. Defects can also exist in components and products the Company purchases from third
parties. Component defects could make the Company’s products unsafe and create a risk of envir onmental or
property damage and personal injury . These risks may increase as the Company’s products are introduced into
specialized applications, including health. In addition, the Company’s service oﬀerin gs can have quality issues and
from time to time experience outages, service slowdowns or errors. As a result, from time to time the Company’s
services have not perfor med as anticipated and may not meet customer expectations. There can be no assurance
the Compa ny will be able to detect and ﬁx all issues and defects in the hardwar e, software and services it oﬀers.
Failure to do so can result in widespr ead technical and perfor mance issues aﬀecting the Company’s products and
services. In addition, the Company can be exposed to product liability claims, recalls, product replacements or
modiﬁcations, write- oﬀs of inventory, property, plant and equipment or intangible assets, and signiﬁcant warranty
and other expenses, including litigation costs and regulatory ﬁnes. Quality problems can also adversely aﬀect the
experience for users of the Company’s products and services, and result in harm to the Company’s reputation, loss
of compet itive advan tage, poor mark et acceptance, reduced demand for produc ts and services, delay in new
product and service intr oductions and lost sales.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 8
The Company is exposed to the risk of write-downs on the value of its inventory and other assets, in
addition to purchase commitment cancellation risk.
The Company records a write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete or exceed
anticipated demand, or for which cost exceeds net realizable value. The Company also accrues necessary
cancellation fee reserves for orders of excess products and components. The Company reviews long-lived assets,
including capital assets held at its suppliers’ facilities and inventory prepayments, for impair ment whenever events
or circumstances indicate the assets may not be recoverable. If the Company deter mines that an impair ment has
occur red, it records a write-down equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair
value. Although the Company believes its inventory, capital assets, inventory prepayments and other assets and
purchase commitments are currently recoverable, there can be no assurance the Company will not incur write-
downs, fees, impair ments and other charges given the rapid and unpredictable pace of product obsolescence in the
industries in which the Company competes.
The Company orders components for its products and builds inventory in advance of product announcements and
shipments. Manufacturing purchase oblig ations cover the Company’s forecasted component and manufacturing
requir ements, typical ly for periods up to 150 days. Because the Company’s mark ets are volatile, competitive and
subject to rapid technology and price changes, there is a risk the Company will forecast incor rectly and order or
produce e xcess or insuﬃcient amounts of components or pr oducts, or not fully utilize ﬁr m pur chase commitments.
The Comp any relies on access to third-party intellectual property , which may not be available to the
Company on commercially reasonable terms or at all.
The Compa ny’s products and services are designed to include intellectual property owned by third parties, which
requir es licenses from those third parties. In addition, because of technological changes in the industries in which
the Company currently competes or in the futur e may compete, current extensive patent coverage and the rapid
rate of issuance of new patents, the Company’s products and services can unknowingly infringe existing patents or
intellectual property rights of others. From time to time, the Company has been notiﬁed that it may be infringing
certain patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Based on experience and industry practice, the
Company believes licenses to such third-party intellectual property can generally be obtained on commer cially
reasonable terms. However, there can be no assurance the necessary licenses can be obtained on commer cially
reasonable terms or at all. Failure to obtain the right to use third-party intellectual property, or to use such
intellectual property on commer cially reasonable terms, can preclude the Company from selling certain products or
services, or otherwise have a material adverse impact on the Company’s busin ess, results of operations and
ﬁnancial condition.
The Company’s future performance depends in part on support from third-party software developers.
The Company believes decisions by customers to purchase its hardwar e products depend in part on the availability
of third-party software applications and services. There can be no assurance third-party developers will continue to
develop and maintain software applicati ons and services for the Company’s products. If third-party software
applications and services cease to be developed and maintained for the Company’s products, customers may
choose not to buy the Company’s pr oducts.
The Company believes the availability of third-party software applications and services for its products depends in
part on the developers’ perception and analysis of the relative beneﬁts of developi ng, maintaining and upgrading
such software and services for the Company’s products compar ed to competitors’ platfor ms, such as Android for
smartphones and tablets, Windows for personal computers and tablets, and PlayS tation, Nintendo and Xbox for
gaming platfor ms. This analysis may be based on factors such as the mark et position of the Company and its
products, the anticipated revenue that may be generated, expected futur e growth of product sales, and the costs of
developing such applications and services.
The Company’s minority mark et share in the global smartphone, personal computer and tablet mark ets can make
developers less inclined to develop or upgrade software for the Company’s products and more inclined to devote
their resour ces to developing and upgrad ing software for competitors’ products with larger mark et share. When
developers focus their eﬀorts on these competing platfor ms, the availability and quality of applications for the
Company’s devices can suﬀer .
The Comp any relies on the continued availability and development of compe lling and innovative software
applications for its products. The Company’s products and operating systems are subject to rapid technological
change, and when third-party developers are unable to or choose not to keep up with this pace of change, their
applications can fail to take advantage of these changes to deliver improved customer experiences, can operate
incor rectly, and can r esult in dissatisﬁed customers and lower customer demand for the Company’s pr oducts.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 9
The Company distributes third-party applications for its products through the App Store. For the vast majority of
applications, developers keep all of the revenue they generate on the App Store. The Company retains a
commission from sales of applications and sales of digital services or goods initiated within an application. From
time to time, the Company has made changes to its App Store, including actions taken in response to competition,
mark et conditions and legal and regulator y requir ements. The Company expects to make further business changes
in the future, includin g as a result of legislative initiatives impacting the App Store, such as the European Union
(“EU”) Digital Mark ets Act, which the Company is requir ed to comply with by March 2024. The Company is also
subject to litigation and investigations relating to the App Store, which have resulted in changes to the Company’s
business practices, and may in the futur e result in further changes. Changes have included how developers
communicate with consumers outside the App Store regarding alternative purchasing mechanisms. Future changes
could also aﬀect what the Company charges developers for access to its platfor ms, how it manages distribution of
apps outside of the App Store, and how and to what extent it allows developers to communicate with consumers
inside the App Store regarding alternative purchasing mechanisms. This could reduce the volume of sales, and the
commission that the Company earns on those sales, would decrease. If the rate of the commission that the
Company retains on such sales is reduced, or if it is otherwise narrowed in scope or eliminated, the Company’s
business, r esults of operations and ﬁnancial condition could be materially adversely aﬀected.
Failure to obtain or create digital content that appeals to the Company’s customers, or to make such
content available on commercially reasonable terms, could have a mate rial adverse impact on the
Company’s business, results of operations and ﬁnancial condition.
The Company contracts with numer ous third parties to oﬀer their digital content to customers. This includes the
right to sell, or oﬀer subscriptions to, third-party content, as well as the right to incorporate speciﬁc content into the
Company’s own services. The licensing or other distribution arrangements for this content can be for relatively short
time periods and do not guarantee the continuation or renewal of these arrangements on commer cially reasonable
terms, or at all. Some third-party content providers and distributors currently or in the futur e may oﬀer competing
products and service s, and can take actions to make it diﬃcult or impossible for the Company to license or
otherwise distribute their content. Other content owners, providers or distributors may seek to limit the Company’s
access to, or increase the cost of, such content. The Company may be unable to continue to oﬀer a wide variety of
content at commer cially r easonable prices with acceptable usage rules.
The Company also produces its own digita l content, which can be costly to produce  due to intense and increasing
competition for talent, content and subscribers, and may fail to appeal to the Company’s customers.
Some third-party digital content providers requir e the Company to provide digital rights management and other
security solutions. If requir ements change, the Company may have to develop or license new technology to provide
these solutions. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to develop  or license such solutions at a
reasonable cost and in a timely manner .
The Company’s success depends large ly on the talents and eﬀorts of its team members, the continued
service and availability of highly skille d employees, including key personnel, and the Company’s ability
to nurture its distinctive and inclusive culture.
Much of the Company’s futur e success depends on the talents and eﬀorts of its team members and the continued
availability and service of key personnel,  including its Chief Executive Oﬃcer, executive team and other highly
skilled employees. Experienced personnel  in the technology industry are in high demand and competition for their
talents is intense, especially in Silicon Valley, wher e most of the Company’s key personnel are located. In addition to
intense competition for talent, workfor ce dynamics are constantly evolving. If the Company does not manage
changing workfor ce dynamics eﬀectively, it could materially adversely aﬀect the Company’s cultur e, reputation and
operational ﬂe xibility .
The Company believes that its distinctive and inclusive cultur e is a signiﬁcant driver of its success. If the Company is
unable to nurtur e its cultur e, it could materially adversely aﬀect the Company’s ability to recruit and retain the
highly skilled employees who are critica l to its success, and could otherwise materially adversely aﬀect the
Company’s business, r eputation, r esults of operations and ﬁnancial condition.
The Company depends on the performance of carriers, wholesalers, retailers and other resellers.
The Company distributes its products and certain of its services through cellular network carriers, wholesalers,
retailers and resellers, many of which distribute products and services from competitors. The Company also sells its
products and services and resells third-par ty products in most of its major mark ets directly to consumers, small and
mid-sized businesses, and education, enterprise and gover nment customers through its retail and online stores and
its dir ect sales for ce.
Some carriers providing cellular network service for the Company’s products oﬀer ﬁnancing, installment payment
plans or subsidies for users’ purchases of the device. There can be no assurance such oﬀers will be continued at all
or in the same amounts.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 10
The Company has invested and will continue to invest in programs to enhance reseller sales, including staﬃng
selected resellers’ stores with Company employees and contractors, and improving product placement displays.
These programs can requir e a substantial investment while not assuring return or incremental sales. The ﬁnancial
condition of these resellers could weak en, these resellers could stop distributing the Company’s products, or
uncertainty regarding demand for some or all of the Company’s products could cause resellers to reduce their
ordering and mark eting of the Company’s pr oducts.
The Company’s business and reputat ion are impacted by information technology system failures and
network disruptions.
The Comp any and its global supply chain are dependent on comple x information technology systems and are
exposed to information technology system failur es or network disruptions caused by natural disasters, accidents,
power disruptions, telecommunications failur es, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electr onic
break-ins, ransomwa re or other cybers ecurity incidents, or other events or disruptions. System upgrades,
redundancy and other continuity measur es may be ineﬀective or inadequate, and the Company’s or its vendors’
business continuity and disaster recovery planning may not be suﬃcient for all eventualities. Such failur es or
disruptions can adversely impact the Company’s business by, among other things, preventing access to the
Company’s online services, interfering with customer transactions or impeding the manufacturing and shipping of
the Company’s products. These events could materially adversely aﬀect the Company’s business, reputation, results
of operations and ﬁnancial condition.
Losses or unauthorized access to or releases of conﬁdential inform ation, including personal
information, could subject the Company to signiﬁcant reputational, ﬁnancial, legal and operational
consequences.
The Company’s business requir es it to use and store conﬁdential information, including personal information, with
respect to the Compa ny’s customers and employees. The Company devotes signiﬁcant resour ces to network and
data security, including through the use of encryption and other security measur es intended to protect its systems
and data. But these measur es cannot provide absolute security, and losses or unaut horized access to or releases of
conﬁdential information occur and could materially adversely aﬀect the Company’s business, reputation, results of
operations and ﬁnancial condition.
The Company’s business also requir es it to share conﬁdential information with suppliers and other third parties. The
Company relies on global suppliers that are also exposed to ransomwar e and other malicious attacks that can
disrupt business operations. Although the Company takes steps to secur e conﬁdential information that is provided to
or accessib le by third parties working on the Company’s behalf, such measur es are not always eﬀective and losses
or unauthorized access to, or releases of, conﬁdential information occur . Such incidents and other malicious attacks
could materially adversely aﬀect the Company’s business, r eputation, r esults of operations and ﬁnancial condition.
The Company experiences malicious attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access to its systems on a
regular basis. These  attacks seek to compr omise the conﬁdentiality, integrity or availability of conﬁdential
information or disrupt normal business operations, and can, among other things, impair the Company’s ability to
attract and retain customers for its products and services, impact the Company’s stock price, materially damage
commer cial relationships, and expose the Company to litigation or gover nment investigations, which could result in
penalties, ﬁnes or judgments against the Company . Globally, attacks are expected to continue accelerating in both
frequency and sophistication with increasing use by actors of tools and techniques that are designed to circumvent
contr ols, avoid detection, and remove or obfuscate forensic evidence, all of which hinders the Company’s ability to
identif y, investigate and recover from incidents. In addition, attacks against the Company and its customers can
escalate during periods of sever e diplomatic or ar med conﬂict.
Although malicious attacks perpetrated to gain access to conﬁdential information, including personal information,
aﬀect many companies across various industries, the Company is at a relatively greater risk of being targeted
because of its high proﬁle and the value of the conﬁdential information it creates, owns, manages, stores and
processes.
The Company has implemented systems and processes intended to secur e its information technology systems and
prevent unauthorized access to or loss of sensitive data, and mitigate the impact of unauthorized access, including
through the use of encryption and authentication technologies. As with all companie s, these security measur es may
not be suﬃcient for all eventualities and may be vulnerable to hacking, ransomwar e attacks, employee error,
malfeasance, system error, faulty passwor d management or other irregularities. For example, third parties can
fraudulently induce the Company’s or its vendors’ employees or customers into disclosing usernames, passwor ds or
other sensitive information, which can, in turn, be used for unauthorized access to the Company’s or its vendors’
systems and services. To help protect customers and the Company, the Company deploys and makes available
technologies like multifactor authentication, monitors its services and systems for unusual activity and may freeze
accounts under suspicious circumstances, which, among other things, can result in the delay or loss of customer
orders or impede customer access to the Company’s pr oducts and services.
While the Company maintains insurance coverage that is intended to address certain aspects of data security risks,
such insurance coverage may be insuﬃcient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 11
Investment in new business strategies  and acquisitions could disrupt the Company’s ongoing business,
present risks not originally contemplated and materially adversely aﬀect the Company’s business,
reputation, results of operations and ﬁnancial condition.
The Compa ny has invested, and in the futur e may invest, in new business strategies or acquisitions. Such endeavors
may involv e signiﬁca nt risks and uncert ainties, including distraction of management from current operations,
greater -than-e xpected liabilities and expenses, economic, political, legal and regulatory challenges associated with
operating in new businesses, regions or countries, inadequate return on capital, potential impair ment of tangible
and intangible assets, and signiﬁcant write-oﬀs. Investment and acquisition transactions are exposed to additional
risks, includ ing failing to obtain requir ed regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all, or the imposition of onerous
conditions that could delay or prevent the Company from completing a transaction or otherwise limit the Company’s
ability to fully realize the anticipated bene ﬁts of a transaction. These new ventur es are inher ently risky and may not
be success ful. The failur e of any signiﬁcan t investment could materially adversely aﬀect the Company’s business,
reputation, r esults of operations and ﬁnancial condition.
The Company’s retail stores are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties.
The Company’s retail operations are subject to many factors that pose risks and uncertainties and could adversely
impact the Company’s business, results of operations and ﬁnancial condition, includ ing macr oeconomic factors that
could have an adverse eﬀect on general retail activity . Other factors include the Company’s ability to: manage costs
associated with retail store construction and operation; manage relationships with existing retail partners; manage
costs associated with ﬂuctuations in the value of retail inventory; and obtain and renew leases in quality retail
locations at a r easonable cost.
Legal and Regulatory Compliance Risks
The Company’s business, results of operations and ﬁnancial condition could be adversely impacted by
unfavorable results of legal proceedings or government investigations.
The Company is subject to various claims, legal proceedings and gover nment investigations that have arisen in the
ordinary course of business and have not yet been fully resolved, and new matte rs may arise in the futur e. In
addition, agreements  enter ed into by the Company sometimes include indemniﬁcation provisions which can subject
the Company to costs and damages in the event of a claim against an indemniﬁed third party . The number of
claims, legal proceedings and gover nment investigations involving the Company, and the alleged magnitude of such
claims, proceedings and gover nment investigations, has generally increased over time and may continue to
increase.
The Compa ny has faced and continues to face a signiﬁcant number of patent claim s relating to its cellular -enabled
products, and new claims may arise in the futur e, including as a result of new legal or regulatory frameworks. For
example, technology  and other patent-ho lding companies frequently assert their patents and seek royalties and
often enter into litiga tion based on allega tions of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property
rights. The Company is vigor ously defending infringement actions in courts in several U.S. jurisdictions, as well as
internationally in various countries. The plaintiﬀs in these actions frequently seek injunctions and substantial
damages.
Regardless of the merit of particular claims, defending against litigation or responding to gover nment investigations
can be expensive, time-consuming and disruptive to the Company’s operations. In recognition of these
considerations, the Company may enter into agreements or other arrangements to settle litigation and resolve such
challenges. There can be no assurance such agreements can be obtained on accept able terms or that litigation will
not occur . These agreements can also signiﬁcantly increase the Company’s cost of sales and operating expenses
and require the Comp any to change its business practices and limit the Company’s ability to oﬀer certain products
and services.
Except as described in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K under the heading “Legal Proceedings” and in Part II, Item 8 of
this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 12, “Commitments, Contingencies and
Supply Concentrations” under the heading “Contingencies,” in the opinion of management, there was not at least a
reasonable possibility  the Company may have incur red a material loss, or a material loss greater than a recorded
accrual, concer ning loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims.
The outcome of litigation or gover nment investigations is inher ently uncertain. If one or more legal matters were
resolved against the Company or an indemniﬁed third party in a reporting period for amounts above management’s
expectations, the Company’s results of operations and ﬁnancial condition for that reporting period could be
materially adversely aﬀected. Further, such an outcome can result in signiﬁcant compensatory, punitive or trebled
monetary damages, disgor gement of revenue or proﬁts, remedial corporate measur es or injunctive relief against the
Company, and has from time to time requir ed, and can in the futur e requir e, the Company to change its business
practices and limit the Company’s ability to oﬀer certain products and services, all of which could materially
adversely aﬀect the Company’s business, r eputation, r esults of operations and ﬁnancial condition.
While the Company maintains insurance coverage for certain types of claims, such insurance coverage may be
insuﬃcient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 12
The Comp any is subject to complex and changing laws and regulations worldwide, which exposes the
Company to potential liabilities, increased costs and other adverse eﬀects on the Company’s business.
The Company’s global operations are subject to comple x and changing laws and regulations on subjects, including
antitrust; privacy, data security and data localization; consumer protection; advertising, sales, billing and e-
commer ce; ﬁnancial services and technology; product liability; intellectual property ownership and infringement;
digital platfor ms; machine learning and artiﬁcial intelligence; internet, telecommunications and mobile
communications; media, television, ﬁlm and digital content; availability of third-party software applications and
services; labor and employment; anticor ruption; import, export and trade; foreign exchange contr ols and cash
repatriation restrictio ns; anti–money laundering; foreign ownership and investment; tax; and envir onmental, health
and safety, including electr onic waste, r ecycling, pr oduct design and climate change.
Compliance with these laws and regulations is onerous and expensive. New and changing laws and regulations can
adversely aﬀect the Company’s business by increasing the Company’s costs, limiting the Company’s ability to oﬀer
a product, service or featur e to customers, imposing changes to the design of the Company’s products and services,
impacting customer demand for the Company’s products and services, and requiring changes to the Company’s
supply chain and its business. New and changing laws and regulations can also create uncertainty about how such
laws and regulations will be interpr eted and applied. These risks and costs may increase as the Company’s products
and services are introduced into specialize d applications, including health and ﬁnan cial services. The Company has
implemented policies and procedur es designed to ensur e compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but there
can be no assurance the Company’s employees, contractors or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or
the Compa ny’s policies and procedur es. If the Company is found to have violated  laws and regulations, it could
materially adversely aﬀect the Company ’s business, reputation, results of operations and ﬁnancial condition.
Regulatory changes and other actions that materially adversely aﬀect the Company’s business may be announced
with little or no advance notice and the Company may not be able to eﬀectively mitigate all adverse impacts from
such measur es. For example, the Company  is subject to changing regulations relating to the export and import of its
products. Although the Company has programs, policies and procedur es in place that are designed to satisf y
regulatory requir ements, there can be no assurance that such policies and procedur es will be eﬀective in preventing
a violation  or a claim of a violation. As a result, the Company’s products could be banned, delayed or prohibited
from importation, which could materially adversely aﬀect the Company’s business, reputation, results of operations
and ﬁnancial condition.
Expectations relati ng to environmental, social and governance considera tions and related reporting
obligations expose  the Company to potential liabilities, increased costs, reputational harm, and other
adverse eﬀects on the Company’s business.
Many gover nments, regulators, investors, employees, customers and other stakeholders are increasingly focused on
envir onmental, social and gover nance considerations relating to businesses, including climate change and
greenhouse gas emissions, human and civil rights, and diversity, equity and inclusion. In addition, the Company
makes statements about its goals and initiatives through its various non-ﬁnancial reports, information provided on
its website, press statements and other communications. Responding to these envir onmental, social and
gover nance considerations and implementation of these goals and initiatives involves risks and uncertainties,
requir es investments, and depends in part on third-party perfor mance or data that is outside the Company’s contr ol.
The Company cannot guarantee that it will achieve its announced envir onmental, social and gover nance goals and
initiatives. In addition, some stakeholders may disagr ee with the Company’s goals and initiatives. Any failur e, or
perceived failure, by the Company to achie ve its goals, further its initiatives, adher e to its public statements, comply
with federal, state or international envir onmental, social and gover nance laws and regulations, or meet evolving and
varied stakeholder expectations and standar ds could result in legal and regulatory proceedings against the
Company and materially adversely aﬀec t the Company’s business, reputation, results of operations, ﬁnancial
condition and stock price.
The techn ology industry , including, in some instances, the Company , is subject to intense media,
political and regulatory scrutiny , which exposes the Company to increasing regulation, government
investigations, legal actions and penalties.
From time to time, the Company has made changes to its App Store, including actions taken in response to
litigation, competition, mark et conditions and legal and regulatory requir ements. The Company expects to make
further business changes in the futur e, including as a result of legislative initiatives impacting the App Store, such as
the EU Digital Mark ets Act, which the Company is requir ed to comply with by March 2024, or similar laws in other
jurisdictions. Changes have included how developers communicate with consumers outside the App Store regarding
alternative purchasing mechanisms. Future changes could also aﬀect what the Company charges developers for
access to its platfor ms, how it manages distribution of apps outside of the App Store, and how and to what extent it
allows developers to communicate with consumers inside the App Store regarding alternative purchasing
mechanisms.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 13
The Company is also currently subject to antitrust investigations in various jurisdictions around the world, which can
result in legal proceedings and claims against the Company that could, individually or in the aggregate, have a
materially adverse impact on the Company’s business, results of operations and ﬁnancial condition. For example,
the Compa ny is the subject of investigations in Europe and other jurisdictions relating to App Store terms and
conditions. If such investigations result in adverse ﬁndings against the Company, the Company could be exposed to
signiﬁcant ﬁnes and may be requir ed to make changes to its App Store business , all of which could materially
adversely aﬀect the Company’s business, results of operations and ﬁnancial condition. The Company is also subject
to litigation relating to the App Store, which has resulted in changes to the Company ’s business practices, and may
in the futur e result in further changes.
Further, the Company has commer cial relationships with other companies in the technology industry that are or may
become subject to investigations and litigation that, if resolved against those other companies, could materially
adversely aﬀect the Company’s commer cial relationships with those business partners and materially adversely
aﬀect the Company’s business, results of operations and ﬁnancial condition. For example, the Company earns
revenue from licensing arrangements with other companies to oﬀer their search services on the Company’s
platfor ms and applications, and certain of these arrangements are currently subject to gover nment investigations
and legal pr oceedings.
There can be no assurance the Company’s business will not be materially adversely  aﬀected, individually or in the
aggregate, by the outcomes of such investigations, litigation or changes to laws and regulations in the futur e.
Changes to the Company’s business practices to comply with new laws and regulations or in connection with other
legal proceedings could negatively impact the reputation of the Company’s products for privacy and security and
otherwise adversely aﬀect the experience  for users of the Company’s products and services, and result in harm to
the Compa ny’s reputation, loss of compet itive advantage, poor mark et acceptance, reduced demand for products
and services, and lost sales.
The Company’s business is subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws, rules, policies and other
obligations regarding data protection.
The Company is subject to an increasing number of federal, state and international  laws relating to the collection,
use, retention, security and transfer of various types of personal information. In many cases, these laws apply not
only to third-party transactions, but also restrict transfers of personal information  among the Company and its
international subsidia ries. Several jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, and additional jurisdictions are
considering imposing additional restrictions or have laws that are pending. These laws continue to develop and may
be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdi ction. Complying with emer ging and changing requir ements causes the
Company to incur substantial costs and has requir ed and may in the futur e require the Company to change its
business practices. Noncompliance could r esult in signiﬁcant penalties or legal liability .
The Compa ny makes statements about its use and disclosur e of personal information through its privacy policy,
information provided on its website, press statements and other privacy notices provided to customers. Any failur e
by the Company to comply with these public statements or with other federal, state or international privacy or data
protection laws and regulations could result in inquiries or proceedings against the Company by gover nmental
entities or others. In addition to reputational impacts, penalties could include ongoing audit requir ements and
signiﬁcant legal liability .
In addition to the risks generally relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personal
information, the Company is also subject to speciﬁc obligations relating to information consider ed sensitive under
applicable laws, such as health data, ﬁnan cial data and biometric data. Health data and ﬁnancial data are subject to
additional privacy, security and breach notiﬁcation requir ements, and the Company is subject to audit by
gover nmental authorities regarding the Company’s compliance with these obligations. If the Company fails to
adequately comply with these rules and requir ements, or if health data or ﬁnancial data is handled in a manner not
permitted by law or under the Company’s agreements with healthcar e or ﬁnancial institutions, the Company can be
subject to litigation or gover nment investigations, and can be liable for associated investigatory expenses, and can
also incur signiﬁcant fees or ﬁnes.
Payment card data is also subject to additional requir ements. Under payment card rules and obligations, if
cardholder informatio n is potentially compr omised, the Company can be liable for associated investigatory expenses
and can also incur signiﬁcant fees or ﬁnes if the Company fails to follow payme nt card industry data security
standar ds. The Company could also experience a signiﬁcant increase in payment card transaction costs or lose the
ability to process payment cards if it fails to follow payment card industry data security standar ds, which could
materially adversely aﬀect the Company’s business, r eputation, r esults of operations and ﬁnancial condition.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 14
Financial Risks
The Company expects its quarterly net sales and results of operations to ﬂuctuate.
The Company’s proﬁt margins vary across its products, services, geographic segments and distribution channels.
For example, the gross margins on the Company’s products and services vary signiﬁcantly and can change over
time. The Company’s gross margins are subject to volatility and downwar d pressure due to a variety of factors,
including: continued industry -wide global product pricing pressur es and product pricing actions that the Company
may take in response to such pressur es; increased competition; the Company’s ability to eﬀectively stimulate
demand for certain of its products and services; compr essed product life cycle s; supply shortages; potential
increases in the cost of components, outside manufacturing services, and developing, acquiring and delivering
content for the Company’s services; the Company’s ability to manage product quality and warranty costs
eﬀectively; shifts in the mix of products and services, or in the geographic, currency or channel mix, including to the
extent that regulatory changes requir e the Company to modif y its product and service oﬀerings; ﬂuctuations in
foreign exchange rates; inﬂation and other macr oeconomic pressur es; and the introduction of new products or
services, including new products or services with higher cost structur es. These and other factors could have a
materially adverse impact on the Company’s r esults of operations and ﬁnancial condition.
The Company has historically experienced higher net sales in its ﬁrst quarter compar ed to other quarters in its ﬁscal
year due in part to seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product and service  introductions can signiﬁcantly
impact net sales, cost of sales and operat ing expenses. Further, the Company generates a signiﬁcant portion of its
net sales from a single product and a decline in demand for that product could signiﬁcantly impact quarterly net
sales. The Company could also be subject to unexpected developments, such as lower-than-anticipated demand for
the Compa ny’s products or services, issues with new product or service introductions, information technology
system failur es or network disruptions, or failur e of one of the Company’s logistics, components supply, or
manufacturing partners.
The Company’s ﬁnancial performance is subject to risks associated with changes in the value of the
U.S. dollar relative to local currencies.
The Company’s primary exposur e to movements in foreign exchange rates relates to non–U.S. dollar–denominated
sales, cost of sales and operating expenses worldwide. Gross margins on the Company’s products in foreign
countries and on products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers have in the past been adversely
aﬀected and could in the futur e be materially adversely aﬀected by for eign e xchange rate ﬂuctuations.
The weak ening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar adversely aﬀects the U.S. dollar value of the
Company’s foreign currency–denominated sales and earnings, and generally leads the Company to raise
international pricing,  potentially reducing demand for the Company’s products . In some circumstances, for
competitive or other reasons, the Company may decide not to raise international pricing to oﬀset the U.S. dollar’s
strengthening, which would adversely aﬀect the U.S. dollar value of the gross margins the Company earns on
foreign cur rency–denominated sales.
Conversely, a strengthening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, while generally beneﬁcial to the
Company’s foreign currency–denominated  sales and earnings, could cause the Company to reduce international
pricing or incur losses on its foreign currency derivative instruments, thereby limiting the beneﬁt. Additionally,
strengthening of foreign currencies may increase the Company’s cost of product components denominated in those
currencies, thus adversely aﬀecting gr oss mar gins.
The Company uses derivative instruments , such as foreign currency forwar d and option contracts, to hedge certain
exposur es to ﬂuctuations in foreign exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not be eﬀective to oﬀset
any, or more than a portion, of the adverse ﬁnancial eﬀects of unfavorable movem ents in foreign exchange rates
over the limited time the hedges ar e in place.
The Company is exposed to credit risk and ﬂuctuations in the values of its investment portfolio.
The Company’s investments can be negatively aﬀected by changes in liquidity, credit deterioration, ﬁnancial results,
mark et and economic conditions, political risk, sover eign risk, interest rate ﬂuctuations or other factors. As a result,
the value and liquidity of the Company’s cash, cash equivalents and mark etable securities may ﬂuctuate
substantially . Therefore, although the Company has not realized any signiﬁcant losses on its cash, cash equivalents
and mark etable securities, futur e ﬂuctuations in their value could result in signiﬁcant losses and could have a
material adverse impact on the Company’s r esults of operations and ﬁnancial condition.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 15
The Company is exposed to credit risk on its trade accounts receivable, vendor non-trade receivables
and prepa yments related to long-term supply agreements, and this risk is heightened during periods
when economic conditions worsen.
The Company distributes its products and certain of its services through third-party cellular network carriers,
wholesalers, retailers and resellers. The Company also sells its products and services directly to small and mid-sized
businesses and education, enterprise and gover nment customers. A substantial majority of the Company’s
outstanding trade receivables are not cover ed by collateral, third-party bank support or ﬁnancing arrangements, or
credit insurance, and a signiﬁcant portion of the Company’s trade receivables can be concentrated within cellular
network carriers or other resellers. The Company’s exposur e to credit and collectibilit y risk on its trade receivables is
higher in certain international mark ets and its ability to mitigate such risks may be limited. The Company also has
unsecur ed vendor non-trade receivables resulting from purchases of components by outsour cing partners and other
vendors that manufactur e subassemblies or assemble ﬁnal products for the Company . In addition, the Company has
made prepayments associated with long-ter m supply agreements to secur e supply of inventory components. As of
September  30, 2023, the Company’s vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related to long-ter m supply
agreements were concentrated among a few individual vendors located primarily in Asia. While the Company has
procedur es to monitor and limit exposur e to credit risk on its trade and vendor non-trade receivables, as well as
long-ter m prepayments, there can be no assurance such procedur es will eﬀectively limit its credit risk and avoid
losses.
The Company is subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax
legislation and exposure to additional tax liabilities.
The Company is subject to taxes in the U.S. and numer ous foreign jurisdictions, including Ireland and Singapor e,
wher e a number of the Company’s subsidiaries are organized. Due to economic and political conditions, tax laws
and tax rates for income taxes and other non-income taxes in various jurisdictions may be subject to signiﬁcant
change. For example, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development continues to advance proposals
for moder nizing international tax rules, including the introduction of global minimum tax standar ds. The Company’s
eﬀective tax rates are aﬀected by chang es in the mix of earnings in countries with diﬀering statutory tax rates,
changes in the valuation of defer red tax assets and liabilities, the introduction of new taxes, and changes in tax laws
or their interpr etation . The application of tax laws may be uncertain, requir e signiﬁc ant judgment and be subject to
diﬀering interpr etations.
The Company is also subject to the examination of its tax returns and other tax matters by the U.S. Internal
Revenue Service and other tax authorities and gover nmental bodies. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood
of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to deter mine the adequacy of its provision for taxes.
There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. If the Company’s eﬀective tax rates were to
increase, or if the ultimate deter mination  of the Company’s taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts
previously accrued, the Company’s busin ess, results of operations and ﬁnancial condition could be materially
adversely aﬀected.
General Risks
The price of the Company’s stock is subject to volatility .
The Compa ny’s stock  has experienced substantial price volatility in the past and may continue to do so in the
futur e. Additionally, the Company, the technology industry and the stock mark et as a whole have, from time to time,
experienced extreme stock price and volume ﬂuctuations that have aﬀected stock prices in ways that may have
been unrelated to these companies’ opera ting perfor mance. Price volatility may cause the average price at which
the Company repurchases its stock in a given period to exceed the stock’s price at a given point in time. The
Company believes the price of its stock should reﬂect expectations of futur e growth and proﬁtability . The Company
also believes the price of its stock should reﬂect expectations that its cash dividend will continue at current levels or
grow, and that its current share repurchase program will be fully consummated. Future dividends are subject to
declaration by the Company’s Board of Directors, and the Company’s share repurchase program does not obligate it
to acquire any speciﬁc number of shares. If the Company fails to meet expecta tions related to futur e growth,
proﬁtability, dividend s, share repurchases or other mark et expectations, the price  of the Company’s stock may
decline signiﬁcantly, which could have a material adverse impact on investor conﬁdence and employee r etention.
Item 1B.    Unresolved Staﬀ Comments
None.
Item 1C.    Cybersecurity
Not applicable.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 16
Item 2.    Properties
The Company’s headquarters is located in Cupertino, Califor nia. As of September  30, 2023, the Company owned or
leased facilities and land for corporate functions, R&D, data centers, retail and other purposes at locations
throughout the U.S. and in various places outside the U.S. The Company believes its existing facilities and
equipment, which are used by all reportable segments, are in good operating condition and are suitable for the
conduct of its business.
Item 3.    Legal Proceedings
Epic Games
Epic Games, Inc. (“Epic”) ﬁled a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Norther n District of Califor nia (the “District
Court”) against the Company alleging violations of federal and state antitrust laws and Califor nia’s unfair
competition law based upon the Company ’s operation of its App Store. On Septemb er 10, 2021, the District Court
ruled in favor of the Company with respect to nine out of the ten counts included in Epic’s claim. The District Court
found that certain provisions of the Comp any’s App Store Review Guidelines violate  Califor nia’s unfair competition
law and issued an injunction enjoining the Company from prohibiting developer s from including in their apps
external links that direct customers to purchasing mechanisms other than Apple in-app purchasing. The injunction
applies to apps on the U.S. storefront of the iOS and iPadOS App Store. On April 24, 2023, the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit (the “Circuit Court”) aﬃrmed the District Court’s ruling. On June 7, 2023, the Company and Epic
ﬁled petitio ns with the Circuit Court requesting further review of the decision. On June 30, 2023, the Circuit Court
denied both petitions. On July 17, 2023, the Circuit Court granted Apple’s motio n to stay enfor cement of the
injunction pending appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court. If the U.S. Supreme Court denies Apple’s petition, the stay of
the injunction will e xpire.
Masimo
Masimo Corporation and Cercacor Laboratories, Inc. (together, “Masimo ”) ﬁled a complaint befor e the U.S.
International Trade Commission (the “ITC”) alleging infringement by the Company of ﬁve patents relating to the
functionality of the blood oxygen featur e in Apple Watch Series 6 and 7. In its complaint, Masimo sought a
permanent exclusion order prohibiting importation to the United States of certain Apple Watch models that include
blood oxygen sensing functionality . On October 26, 2023, the ITC enter ed a limited exclusion order (the “Order”)
prohibiting importati on and sales in the United States of Apple Watch model s with blood oxygen sensing
functionality, which includes Apple Watch Series 9 and Ultra 2. The Order will not go into eﬀect until the end of the
administrative review period, which is currently expected to end on December 25, 2023. The Company intends to
appeal the Or der and seek a stay pending the appeal.
Other Legal Proceedings
The Company is subject to other legal proceedings and claims that have not been fully resolved and that have
arisen in the ordinary  course of business. The Company settled certain matters during the fourth quarter of 2023
that did not individually or in the aggregate have a material impact on the Company’s ﬁnancial condition or
operating results. The outcome of litigation is inher ently uncertain. If one or more legal matters were resolved
against the Company in a reporting period  for amounts above management’s expectations, the Company’s ﬁnancial
condition and operating r esults for that r eporting period could be materially adversely aﬀected.
Item 4.    Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 17
PART II
Item 5.    Mark et for Registrant’s Common Equity , Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities
The Company’s common stock is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Mark et LLC under the symbol A APL.
Holders
As of October 20, 2023, ther e wer e 23,763 shar eholders of r ecord.
Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Aﬃliated Purchasers
Share repurchase activity during the three months ended September  30, 2023 was as follows (in millions, except
number of shar es, which ar e reﬂected in thousands, and per -shar e amounts):
PeriodsTotal Number
of Shares
PurchasedAverage
Price
Paid Per
ShareTotal Number
of Shares
Purchased as
Part of
Publicly
Announced
Plans or
ProgramsApproximate
Dollar Value of
Shares That May
Yet Be
Purchased
Under the Plans
or Programs 
July 2, 2023 to August 5, 2023:
Open market and privately negotiated
purchases 33,864  $191.62  33,864 
August 6, 2023 to September 2, 2023:
August 2023 ASRs 22,085  22,085 
Open market and privately negotiated
purchases 30,299  $178.99  30,299 
September 3, 2023 to September 30, 2023:
Open market and privately negotiated
purchases 20,347  $176.31  20,347 
Total 106,595  $ 74,069 
(1)As of September 30, 2023, the Company was authorized by the Board of Directors to purchase up to $90 billion
of the Company’s common stock under a share repurchase program announced on May 4, 2023, of which $15.9
billion had been utilized. During the fourth quarter of 2023, the Company also utilized the ﬁnal $4.6 billion under
its previous repurchase program, which was most recently authorized in April 2022. The programs do not
obligate the Company to acquire a minimum amount of shares. Under the programs, shares may be repurchased
in privately negotiated or open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5-1 under the
Exchange Act.
(2)In August 2023, the Company entered into new accelerated share repurchase agreements (“ASRs”). Under the
terms of the ASRs, two ﬁnancial institutions committed to deliver shares of the Company’s common stock during
the purchase periods in exchange for up-front payments totaling $5.0 billion. The total number of shares
ultimately delivered under the ASRs, and therefore the average repurchase price paid per share, is determined
based on the volume-weighted average price of the Company’s common stock during the ASRs’ purchase
periods, which end in the ﬁrst quarter of 2024.(1)
(2) (2) (2)
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 18
Company Stock Performance
The following graph shows a comparison of ﬁve-year cumulative total shareholder return, calculated on a dividend-
reinvested basis, for the Company, the S&P 500 Index and the Dow Jones U.S. Technology Supersector Index. The
graph assumes $100 was invested in each  of the Company’s common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the Dow Jones
U.S. Technology Supersector Index as of the mark et close on September  28, 2018. Past stock price perfor mance is
not necessarily indicative of futur e stock price perfor mance.
September
2018September
2019September
2020September
2021September
2022September
2023
Apple Inc. $ 100  $ 98  $ 204  $ 269  $ 277  $ 317 
S&P 500 Inde x $ 100  $ 104  $ 118  $ 161  $ 136  $ 160 
Dow Jones U.S. T echnology
Supersector Inde x $ 100  $ 105  $ 154  $ 227  $ 164  $ 226 
Item 6.    [Reserved]
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 19
Item 7.    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated ﬁnancial statements and
accompanying notes included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. This Item generally discusses 2023 and 2022 items
and year-to-year comparisons between 2023 and 2022. Discussions of 2021 items and year-to-year comparisons
between 2022 and 2021 are not included, and can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the ﬁscal
year ended September 24, 2022.
Fiscal Period
The Company’s ﬁscal year is the 52- or 53-week period that ends on the last Satur day of September . An additional
week is included in the ﬁrst ﬁscal quarter every ﬁve or six years to realign the Company’s ﬁscal quarters with
calendar quarters, which occur red in the ﬁrst quarter of 2023. The Company’s ﬁscal year 2023 spanned 53 weeks,
wher eas ﬁscal years 2022 and 2021 spanned 52 weeks each.
Fiscal Y ear Highlights
The Company’s total net sales wer e $383.3 billion and net income was $97.0 billion during 2023.
The Company’s total net sales decreased  3% or $11.0 billion during 2023 compar ed to 2022. The weakness in
foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar accounted for more than the entire year-over-year decrease in total net
sales, which consisted primarily of lower net sales of Mac and iPhone, partially oﬀset by higher net sales of Services.
The Compa ny announces new product, service and software oﬀerings at various times during the year. Signiﬁcant
announcements during ﬁscal year 2023 included the following:
First Quarter 2023:
•iPad and iP ad Pro;
•Next-generation Apple TV 4K; and
•MLS Season P ass, a Major L eague Soccer subscription str eaming service.
Second Quarter 2023:
•MacBook P ro 14”, MacBook P ro 16” and Mac mini; and
•Second-generation HomeP od.
Third Quarter 2023:
•MacBook Air 15”, Mac Studio and Mac P ro;
•Apple Vision Pro™, the Company’s ﬁrst spatial computer featuring its new visionOS™, expected to be
available in early calendar year 2024; and
•iOS 17, macOS Sonoma, iPadOS 17, tvOS 17 and watchOS 10, updates to the Company’s operating
systems.
Fourth Quarter 2023:
•iPhone 15, iPhone 15 Plus, iPhone 15 P ro and iPhone 15 P ro Max; and
•Apple W atch Series 9 and Apple W atch Ultra 2.
In May 2023, the Company announced a new share repurchase program of up to $90 billion and raised its quarterly
dividend from $0.23 to $0.24 per share beginning in May 2023. During 2023, the Company repurchased $76.6 billion
of its common stock and paid dividends and dividend equivalents of $15.0 billion.
Macroeconomic Conditions
Macr oeconomic conditions, including inﬂat ion, changes in interest rates, and currency ﬂuctuations, have directly and
indirectly impacted, and could in the futur e materially impact, the Company’s results of operations and ﬁnancial
condition.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 20
Segment Operating Performance
The following table shows net sales by r eportable segment for 2023, 2022 and 2021 (dollars in millions):
2023 Change 2022 Change 2021
Net sales by r eportable segment:
Americas $162,560  (4)%$169,658  11 %$153,306 
Europe 94,294  (1)% 95,118  7 % 89,307 
Greater China 72,559  (2)% 74,200  9 % 68,366 
Japan 24,257  (7)% 25,977  (9)% 28,482 
Rest of Asia P aciﬁc 29,615  1 % 29,375  11 % 26,356 
Total net sales $383,285  (3)%$394,328  8 %$365,817 
Americas
Americas net sales decreased 4% or $7.1 billion during 2023 compar ed to 2022 due to lower net sales of iPhone and
Mac, partially oﬀset by higher net sales of Services.
Europe
Europe net sales decreased 1% or $824 million during 2023 compar ed to 2022. The weakness in foreign currencies
relative to the U.S. dollar accounted for more than the entire year-over-year decrease in Europe net sales, which
consisted primarily of lower net sales of Mac and Wearables, Home and Accessorie s, partially oﬀset by higher net
sales of iPhone and Services.
Greater China
Greater China net sales decreased 2% or $1.6 billion during 2023 compar ed to 2022. The weakness in the renminbi
relative to the U.S. dollar accounted for more than the entire year-over-year decrease in Greater China net sales,
which consisted primarily of lower net sales of Mac and iPhone.
Japan
Japan net sales decreased 7% or $1.7 billion during 2023 compar ed to 2022. The weakness in the yen relative to the
U.S. dollar accounted for more than the entire year-over-year decrease in Japan net sales, which consisted primarily
of lower net sales of iPhone, W earables, Home and A ccessories and Mac.
Rest of Asia Paciﬁc
Rest of Asia Paciﬁc net sales increased 1% or $240 million during 2023 compar ed to 2022. The weakness in foreign
currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had a signiﬁcantly unfavorable year-over-year impact on Rest of Asia Paciﬁc net
sales. The net sales increase consisted of higher net sales of iPhone and Services, partially oﬀset by lower net sales
of Mac and iP ad.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 21
Products and Services Performance
The following table shows net sales by category for 2023, 2022 and 2021 (dollars in millions):
2023 Change 2022 Change 2021
Net sales by category :
iPhone $200,583  (2)%$205,489  7 %$191,973 
Mac 29,357  (27)% 40,177  14 % 35,190 
iPad 28,300  (3)% 29,292  (8)% 31,862 
Wearables, Home and A ccessories 39,845  (3)% 41,241  7 % 38,367 
Services 85,200  9 % 78,129  14 % 68,425 
Total net sales $383,285  (3)%$394,328  8 %$365,817 
(1)Products net sales include amortization of the deferred value of unspeciﬁed software upgrade rights, which are
bundled in the sales price of the respective product.
(2)Services net sales include amortization of the deferred value of services bundled in the sales price of certain
products.
iPhone
iPhone net sales decreased 2% or $4.9 billion during 2023 compar ed to 2022 due to lower net sales of non-P ro
iPhone models, partially oﬀset by higher net sales of P ro iPhone models.
Mac
Mac net sales decreased 27% or $10.8 billion during 2023 compar ed to 2022 due primarily to lower net sales of
laptops.
iPad
iPad net sales decreased 3% or $1.0 billion during 2023 compar ed to 2022 due primarily to lower net sales of iPad
mini and iP ad Air, partially oﬀset by the combined net sales of iP ad 9th and 10th generation.
Wearables, Home and Accessories
Wearables, Home and Accessories net sales decreased 3% or $1.4 billion during 2023 compar ed to 2022 due
primarily to lower net sales of W earables and A ccessories.
Services
Services net sales increased 9% or $7.1 billion during 2023 compar ed to 2022 due to higher net sales across all
lines of business.(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(2)
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 22
Gross Margin
Products and Services gross margin and gross margin percentage for 2023, 2022 and 2021 were as follows (dollars
in millions):
2023 2022 2021
Gross mar gin:
Products $ 108,803  $ 114,728  $ 105,126 
Services 60,345  56,054  47,710 
Total gr oss mar gin $ 169,148  $ 170,782  $ 152,836 
Gross mar gin per centage:
Products 36.5  % 36.3  % 35.3  %
Services 70.8  % 71.7  % 69.7  %
Total gr oss mar gin per centage 44.1  % 43.3  % 41.8  %
Products Gross Margin
Products gross margin decreased during 2023 compar ed to 2022 due to the weakness in foreign currencies relative
to the U.S. dollar and lower P roducts volume, partially oﬀset by cost savings and a diﬀer ent P roducts mix.
Products gross margin percentage increased during 2023 compar ed to 2022 due to cost savings and a diﬀer ent
Products mix, partially oﬀset by the weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar and decreased
leverage.
Services Gross Margin
Services gross margin increased during 2023 compar ed to 2022 due primarily to higher Services net sales, partially
oﬀset by the weakness in for eign cur rencies r elative to the U.S. dollar and higher Services costs.
Services gross margin percentage decreased during 2023 compar ed to 2022 due to higher Services costs and the
weakness in for eign cur rencies r elative to the U.S. dollar, partially oﬀset by a diﬀer ent Services mix.
The Compa ny’s futur e gross margins can be impacted by a variety of factors, as discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this
Form 10-K under the heading “Risk Factors.” As a result, the Company believes, in general, gross margins will be
subject to volatility and downwar d pressur e.
Operating Expenses
Operating e xpenses for 2023, 2022 and 2021 wer e as follows (dollars in millions):
2023 Change 2022 Change 2021
Resear ch and development $ 29,915  14 %$ 26,251  20 %$ 21,914 
Percentage of total net sales 8 % 7 % 6 %
Selling, general and administrative $ 24,932  (1)%$ 25,094  14 %$ 21,973 
Percentage of total net sales 7 % 6 % 6 %
Total operating e xpenses $ 54,847  7 %$ 51,345  17 %$ 43,887 
Percentage of total net sales 14 % 13 % 12 %
Research and Development
The year-over-year growth in R&D expense in 2023 was driven primarily by increases in headcount-r elated
expenses.
Selling, General and Administrative
Selling, general and administrative e xpense was r elatively ﬂat in 2023 compar ed to 2022.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 23
Provision for Income T axes
Provision for income taxes, eﬀective tax rate and statutory federal income tax rate for 2023, 2022 and 2021 were as
follows (dollars in millions):
2023 2022 2021
Provision for income tax es $ 16,741  $ 19,300  $ 14,527 
Eﬀective tax rate 14.7  % 16.2  % 13.3  %
Statutory federal income tax rate 21 % 21 % 21 %
The Company’s eﬀective tax rate for 2023 and 2022 was lower than the statutor y federal income tax rate due
primarily to a lower eﬀective tax rate on foreign earnings, the impact of the U.S. federal R&D credit, and tax beneﬁts
from shar e-based compensation, partially oﬀset by state income tax es.
The Compa ny’s eﬀective tax rate for 2023 was lower compar ed to 2022 due primarily to a lower eﬀective tax rate
on foreign earnings and the impact of U.S. foreign tax credit regulations issued by the U.S. Department of the
Treasury in 2022, partially oﬀset by lower tax beneﬁts fr om shar e-based compensation.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
The Company believes its balances of cash, cash equivalents and unrestricted mark etable securities, which totaled
$148.3  billion as of September  30, 2023, along with cash generated by ongoing operations and continued access to
debt mark ets, will be suﬃcient to satisf y its cash requir ements and capital return program over the next 12 months
and beyond.
The Company’s material cash r equir ements include the following contractual obligations:
Debt
As of September  30, 2023, the Company had outstanding ﬁxed-rate notes with varying maturities for an aggregate
principal amount of $106.6 billion (collectively the “Notes”), with $9.9 billion payable within 12 months. Future
interest payments associated with the Notes total $41.1 billion, with $2.9 billion payable within 12 months.
The Company also issues unsecur ed short-ter m promissory notes pursuant to a commer cial paper program. As of
September  30, 2023, the Company had $6.0 billion of commer cial paper outstanding, all of which was payable
within 12 months.
Leases
The Comp any has lease arrangements for certain equipment and facilities, including corporate, data center,
manufacturing and retail space. As of September  30, 2023, the Company had ﬁxed lease payment obligations of
$15.8 billion, with $2.0 billion payable within 12 months.
Manufacturing Purchase Obligations
The Company utilizes several outsour cing partners to manufactur e subassemblies for the Company’s products and
to perfor m ﬁnal assembly and testing of ﬁnished products. The Company also obtains individual components for its
products from a wide variety of individual suppliers. As of September  30, 2023, the Company had manufacturing
purchase obligations of $53.1 billion, with $52.9 billion payable within 12 months. The Company’s manufacturing
purchase obligations ar e primarily noncancelable.
Other Purchase Obligations
The Company’s other purchase obligations primarily consist of noncancelable obliga tions to acquir e capital assets,
including assets related to product manufacturing, and noncancelable obligations related to supplier arrangements,
licensed intellectual property and content, and distribution rights. As of September  30, 2023, the Company had
other pur chase obligations of $21.9 billion, with $5.6 billion payable within 12 months.
Deemed Repatriation T ax Payable
As of September  30, 2023, the balance of the deemed repatriation tax payable imposed by the U.S. Tax Cuts and
Jobs A ct of 2017 (the “ Act”) was $22.0 billion, with $6.5 billion e xpected to be paid within 12 months.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 24
Capital Return Program
In addition to its contractual cash requir ements, the Company has an authorized share repurchase program. The
program does not obligate the Company to acquir e a minimum amount of shares. As of September  30, 2023, the
Company’s quarterly cash dividend was $0.24 per share. The Company intends to increase its dividend on an annual
basis, subject to declaration by the Boar d of Dir ectors.
Critical Accounting Estimates
The preparation of ﬁnancial statements and related disclosur es in confor mity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles  (“GAAP”) and the Company’s discussion and analysis of its ﬁnancial condition and operating
results require the Company’s management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that aﬀect the amounts
reported. Note 1, “Summary of Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies” of the Notes to Conso lidated Financial Statements in
Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K describes the signiﬁcant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of
the Company’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on
various other assumptions it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis
for making judgments about the car rying values of assets and liabilities.
Uncertain T ax Positions
The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numer ous foreign jurisd ictions. The evaluation of the
Company’s uncertain  tax positions involves signiﬁcant judgment in the interpr etatio n and application of GAAP and
comple x domestic and international tax laws, including the Act and matters related to the allocation of international
taxation rights betwe en countries. Although management believes the Company’s reserves are reasonable, no
assurance can be given that the ﬁnal outcome of these uncertainties will not be diﬀer ent from that which is
reﬂected in the Comp any’s reserves. Reserves are adjusted considering changing facts and circumstances, such as
the closing of a tax examination. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with management’s
expectations could have a material impact on the Company’s ﬁnancial condition and operating r esults.
Legal and Other Contingencies
The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, the
outcomes of which are inher ently uncertain. The Company records a liability when it is probable that a loss has been
incur red and the amount is reasonably estimable, the deter mination of which requir es signiﬁcant judgment.
Resolution of legal matters in a manner inconsistent with management’s expectation s could have a material impact
on the Company’s ﬁnancial condition and operating r esults.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 25
Item 7A .    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Mark et Risk
The Company is exposed to economic risk from interest rates and foreign exchange rates. The Company uses
various strategies to manage these risks; however, they may still impact the Company’s consolidated ﬁnancial
statements.
Interest Rate Risk
The Company is primarily exposed to ﬂuctuations in U.S. interest rates and their impact on the Company’s
investment portfolio and term debt. Increases in interest rates will negatively aﬀect the fair value of the Company’s
investment portfolio and increase the interest expense on the Company’s term debt. To protect against interest rate
risk, the Company may use derivative instruments, oﬀset interest rate–sensitive assets and liabilities, or contr ol
duration of the investment and ter m debt portfolios.
The following table sets forth potential impacts on the Company’s investment portfolio and term debt, including the
eﬀects of any associated derivatives, that would result from a hypothetical increase in relevant interest rates as of
September 30, 2023 and September 24, 2022 (dollars in millions):
Interest Rate
Sensitive
InstrumentHypothetical Interest
Rate Increase Potential Impact 2023 2022
Investment portfolio 100 basis points, all
tenorsDecline in fair value
$ 3,089  $ 4,022 
Term debt 100 basis points, all
tenorsIncrease in annual inter est
expense $ 194  $ 201 
Foreign Exchange Rate Risk
The Compa ny’s exposur e to foreign exchange rate risk relates primarily to the Company being a net receiver of
currencies other than the U.S. dollar . Chan ges in exchange rates, and in particular a strengthening of the U.S. dollar,
will negatively aﬀect the Company’s net sales and gross margins as expressed in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in
exchange rates may also aﬀect the fair values of certain of the Company’s assets and liabilities. To protect against
foreign exchange rate risk, the Company may use derivative instruments, oﬀset exposur es, or adjust local currency
pricing of its products and services. However, the Company may choose to not hedge certain foreign currency
exposur es for a variety of r easons, including accounting considerations or pr ohibitive cost.
The Company applied a value-at-risk (“VAR”) model to its foreign currency derivative positions to assess the
potential impact of ﬂuctuations in exchange rates. The VAR model used a Monte Carlo simulation. The VAR is the
maximum expected loss in fair value, for a given conﬁdence interval, to the Company’s foreign currency derivative
positions due to adverse movements in rates. Based on the results of the model, the Company estimates, with 95%
conﬁdence, a maximum one-day loss in fair value of $669 million and $1.0 billion as of September  30, 2023 and
September  24, 2022, respectively . Changes in the Company’s underlying foreign currency exposur es, which were
excluded from the assessment, generally  oﬀset changes in the fair values of the Company’s foreign currency
derivatives.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 26
Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
Index to Consolidated Financial Statements Page
Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended September 30, 2023, September 24, 2022
and September 25, 2021 28
Consolidated Statements of Compr ehensive Income for the years ended September 30, 2023,
September 24, 2022 and September 25, 2021 29
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2023 and September 24, 2022 30
Consolidated Statements of Shar eholders’ Equity for the years ended September 30, 2023, September
24, 2022 and September 25, 2021 31
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended September 30, 2023, September 24, 2022
and September 25, 2021 32
Notes to Consolidated F inancial Statements 33
Reports of Independent R egister ed Public A ccounting F irm 49
All ﬁnancial statement schedules have been omitted, since the requir ed information is not applicable or is not
present in amounts suﬃcient to requir e submission of the schedule, or because the information requir ed is included
in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements and accompanying notes.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 27
Apple Inc.
CONSOLIDA TED ST ATEMENTS OF OPERA TIONS
(In millions, e xcept number of shar es, which ar e reﬂected in thousands, and per -shar e amounts)
Years ended
September 30,
2023September 24,
2022September 25,
2021
Net sales:
   Products $ 298,085  $ 316,199  $ 297,392  
   Services 85,200   78,129   68,425  
Total net sales 383,285   394,328   365,817  
Cost of sales:
   Products 189,282   201,471   192,266  
   Services 24,855   22,075   20,715  
Total cost of sales 214,137   223,546   212,981  
Gross mar gin 169,148   170,782   152,836  
Operating e xpenses:
Resear ch and development 29,915   26,251   21,914  
Selling, general and administrative 24,932   25,094   21,973  
Total operating e xpenses 54,847   51,345   43,887  
Operating income 114,301   119,437   108,949  
Other income/(e xpense), net (565) (334) 258 
Income befor e provision for income tax es 113,736   119,103   109,207  
Provision for income tax es 16,741   19,300   14,527  
Net income $ 96,995  $ 99,803  $ 94,680  
Earnings per shar e:
Basic $ 6.16 $ 6.15 $ 5.67 
Diluted $ 6.13 $ 6.11 $ 5.61 
Shares used in computing ear nings per shar e:
Basic 15,744,231   16,215,963   16,701,272  
Diluted 15,812,547   16,325,819   16,864,919  
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated F inancial Statements.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 28
Apple Inc.
CONSOLIDA TED ST ATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(In millions)
Years ended
September 30,
2023September 24,
2022September 25,
2021
Net income $ 96,995  $ 99,803  $ 94,680  
Other compr ehensive income/(loss):
Change in for eign cur rency translation, net of tax (765) (1,511 ) 501 
Change in unr ealized gains/losses on derivative instruments,
net of tax:
Change in fair value of derivative instruments 323  3,212   32 
Adjustment for net (gains)/losses r ealized and included in
net income (1,717 ) (1,074 ) 1,003  
Total change in unr ealized gains/losses on derivative
instruments (1,394 ) 2,138   1,035  
Change in unr ealized gains/losses on mark etable debt
securities, net of tax:
Change in fair value of mark etable debt securities 1,563   (12,104 ) (694)
Adjustment for net (gains)/losses r ealized and included in
net income 253  205  (273)
Total change in unr ealized gains/losses on mark etable
debt securities 1,816   (11,899 ) (967)
Total other compr ehensive income/(loss) (343) (11,272 ) 569 
Total compr ehensive income $ 96,652  $ 88,531  $ 95,249  
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated F inancial Statements.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 29
Apple Inc.
CONSOLIDA TED BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions, e xcept number of shar es, which ar e reﬂected in thousands, and par value)
September 30,
2023September 24,
2022
ASSETS:
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents $ 29,965  $ 23,646  
Mark etable securities 31,590   24,658  
Accounts r eceivable, net 29,508   28,184  
Vendor non-trade r eceivables 31,477   32,748  
Inventories 6,331   4,946  
Other cur rent assets 14,695   21,223  
Total cur rent assets 143,566   135,405  
Non-cur rent assets:
Mark etable securities 100,544   120,805  
Property, plant and equipment, net 43,715   42,117  
Other non-cur rent assets 64,758   54,428  
Total non-cur rent assets 209,017   217,350  
Total assets $ 352,583  $ 352,755  
LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY :
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable $ 62,611  $ 64,115  
Other cur rent liabilities 58,829   60,845  
Defer red revenue 8,061   7,912  
Commer cial paper 5,985   9,982  
Term debt 9,822   11,128  
Total cur rent liabilities 145,308   153,982  
Non-cur rent liabilities:
Term debt 95,281   98,959  
Other non-cur rent liabilities 49,848   49,142  
Total non-cur rent liabilities 145,129   148,101  
Total liabilities 290,437   302,083  
Commitments and contingencies
Shareholders’ equity :
Common stock and additional paid-in capital, $ 0.00001  par value: 50,400,000
shares authorized; 15,550,061  and 15,943,425  shar es issued and
outstanding, r espectively 73,812   64,849  
Accumulated deﬁcit (214) (3,068 )
Accumulated other compr ehensive loss (11,452 ) (11,109 )
Total shar eholders’ equity 62,146   50,672  
Total liabilities and shar eholders’ equity $ 352,583  $ 352,755  
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated F inancial Statements.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 30
Apple Inc.
CONSOLIDA TED ST ATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(In millions, e xcept per -shar e amounts)
Years ended
September 30,
2023September 24,
2022September 25,
2021
Total shar eholders’ equity, beginning balances $ 50,672  $ 63,090  $ 65,339  
Common stock and additional paid-in capital:
Beginning balances 64,849   57,365   50,779  
Common stock issued 1,346   1,175   1,105  
Common stock withheld r elated to net shar e settlement of
equity awar ds (3,521 ) (2,971 ) (2,627 )
Share-based compensation 11,138   9,280   8,108  
Ending balances 73,812   64,849   57,365  
Retained ear nings/(A ccumulated deﬁcit):
Beginning balances (3,068 ) 5,562   14,966  
Net income 96,995   99,803   94,680  
Dividends and dividend equivalents declar ed (14,996 ) (14,793 ) (14,431 )
Common stock withheld r elated to net shar e settlement of
equity awar ds (2,099 ) (3,454 ) (4,151 )
Common stock r epurchased (77,046 ) (90,186 ) (85,502 )
Ending balances (214) (3,068 ) 5,562  
Accumulated other compr ehensive income/(loss):
Beginning balances (11,109 ) 163  (406)
Other compr ehensive income/(loss) (343) (11,272 ) 569 
Ending balances (11,452 ) (11,109 ) 163 
Total shar eholders’ equity, ending balances $ 62,146  $ 50,672  $ 63,090  
Dividends and dividend equivalents declar ed per shar e or RSU $ 0.94 $ 0.90 $ 0.85 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated F inancial Statements.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 31
Apple Inc.
CONSOLIDA TED ST ATEMENTS OF CASH FL OWS
(In millions)
Years ended
September 30,
2023September 24,
2022September 25,
2021
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, beginning balances $ 24,977 $ 35,929 $ 39,789 
Operating activities:
Net income 96,995  99,803  94,680 
Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash generated by operating
activities:
Depreciation and amortization 11,519  11,104  11,284 
Share-based compensation expense 10,833  9,038  7,906 
Other (2,227) 1,006  (4,921)
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Accounts receivable, net (1,688) (1,823) (10,125)
Vendor non-trade receivables 1,271  (7,520) (3,903)
Inventories (1,618) 1,484  (2,642)
Other current and non-current assets (5,684) (6,499) (8,042)
Accounts payable (1,889) 9,448  12,326 
Other current and non-current liabilities 3,031  6,110  7,475 
Cash generated by operating activities 110,543  122,151  104,038 
Investing activities:
Purchases of marketable securities (29,513) (76,923) (109,558)
Proceeds from maturities of marketable securities 39,686  29,917  59,023 
Proceeds from sales of marketable securities 5,828  37,446  47,460 
Payments for acquisition of property, plant and equipment (10,959) (10,708) (11,085)
Other (1,337) (2,086) (385)
Cash generated by/(used in) investing activities 3,705  (22,354) (14,545)
Financing activities:
Payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards (5,431) (6,223) (6,556)
Payments for dividends and dividend equivalents (15,025) (14,841) (14,467)
Repurchases of common stock (77,550) (89,402) (85,971)
Proceeds from issuance of term debt, net 5,228  5,465  20,393 
Repayments of term debt (11,151) (9,543) (8,750)
Proceeds from/(Repayments of) commercial paper, net (3,978) 3,955  1,022 
Other (581) (160) 976 
Cash used in ﬁnancing activities (108,488) (110,749) (93,353)
Increase/(Decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 5,760  (10,952) (3,860)
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, ending balances $ 30,737 $ 24,977 $ 35,929 
Supplemental cash ﬂow disclosure:
Cash paid for income taxes, net $ 18,679 $ 19,573 $ 25,385 
Cash paid for interest $ 3,803 $ 2,865 $ 2,687 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 32
Apple Inc.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 1 – Summary of Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies
Basis of Presentation and Preparation
The consol idated ﬁnancial statements include the accounts of Apple Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries. The
preparation of these consolidated ﬁnancia l statements and accompanying notes in confor mity with GAAP requir es
the use of management estimates. Certain prior period amounts in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements and
accompanying notes have been r eclassiﬁed to confor m to the cur rent period’s pr esentation.
The Company’s ﬁscal year is the 52- or 53-week period that ends on the last Satur day of September . An additional
week is included in the ﬁrst ﬁscal quarter every ﬁve or six years to realign the Company’s ﬁscal quarters with
calendar quarters, which occur red in the ﬁrst ﬁscal quarter of 2023. The Company’s ﬁscal year 2023 spanned 53
weeks, whereas ﬁscal years 2022 and 2021 spanned 52 weeks each. Unless otherwise stated, references to
particular years, quarters, months and periods refer to the Company’s ﬁscal years ended in September and the
associated quarters, months and periods of those ﬁscal years.
Revenue
The Company r ecords revenue net of tax es collected fr om customers that ar e remitted to gover nmental authorities.
Share-Based Compensation
The Company recognizes share-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis for its estimate of equity
awar ds that will ultimately vest.
Cash Equivalents
All highly liquid inves tments with maturities of three months or less at the date of purchase are treated as cash
equivalents.
Mark etable Securities
The cost of securities sold is deter mined using the speciﬁc identiﬁcation method.
Inventories
Inventories ar e measur ed using the ﬁrst-in, ﬁrst- out method.
Property , Plant and Equipment
Depr eciation on pr operty, plant and equipment is r ecognized on a straight-line basis.
Derivative Instruments
The Company pr esents derivative assets and liabilities at their gr oss fair values in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Income T axes
The Company records certain defer red tax assets and liabilities in connection with the minimum tax on certain
foreign ear nings cr eated by the A ct.
Leases
The Company combines and accounts for lease and nonlease components as a single lease component for leases of
corporate, data center and r etail facilities.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 33
Note 2 – Revenue
The Compa ny recognizes revenue at the amount to which it expects to be entitled when contr ol of the products or
services is transfer red to its customers. Contr ol is generally transfer red when the Company has a present right to
payment and title and the signiﬁcant risks and rewar ds of ownership of products or services are transfer red to its
customers. For most of the Company’s Products net sales, contr ol transfers when products are shipped. For the
Company’s Services net sales, contr ol transfers over time as services are deliver ed. Payment for Products and
Services net sales is collected within a short period following transfer of contr ol or commencement of delivery of
services, as applicable.
The Company records reductions to Products net sales related to futur e product returns, price protection and other
customer incentive pr ograms based on the Company’s e xpectations and historical e xperience.
For arrangements with multiple perfor mance obligations, which represent promises within an arrangement that are
distinct, the Company allocates revenue to all distinct perfor mance obligations based on their relative stand-alone
selling prices (“SSP s”). When available, the Company uses observable prices to determine SSPs. When observable
prices are not availab le, SSPs are established that reﬂect the Company’s best estimates of what the selling prices of
the performance obligations would be if they were sold regularly on a stand-alone basis. The Company’s process for
estimating SSPs without observable prices considers multiple factors that may vary depending upon the unique
facts and circumstanc es related to each perfor mance obligation including, wher e applicable, prices charged by the
Company for similar oﬀerings, mark et trends in the pricing for similar oﬀerings, product-speciﬁc business objectives
and the estimated cost to pr ovide the perfor mance obligation.
The Company has identiﬁed up to three perfo rmance obligations regularly included in arrangements involving the
sale of iPhone, Mac, iPad and certain other products. The ﬁrst perfor mance obligation, which represents the
substantial portion of the allocated sales price, is the hardwar e and bundled software deliver ed at the time of sale.
The second perfor mance obligation is the right to receive certain product-r elated bundled services, which include
iCloud , Siri and Maps. The third perfor mance obligation is the right to receive, on a when-and-if -available basis,
futur e unsp eciﬁed software upgrades relating to the software bundled with each device. The Company allocates
revenue and any related discounts to these perfor mance obligations based on their relative SSPs. Because the
Company lacks observable prices for the undeliver ed perfor mance obligations, the allocation of revenue is based on
the Company’s estimated SSPs. Revenue allocated to the deliver ed hardwar e and bundled software is recognized
when control has transfer red to the customer, which generally occurs when the product is shipped. Revenue
allocated to the product-r elated bundled services and unspeciﬁed software upgrade rights is defer red and
recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated period they ar e expected to be pr ovided.
For certain long-ter m service arrangemen ts, the Company has perfor mance obligations for services it has not yet
deliver ed. For these arrangements, the Company does not have a right to bill for the undeliver ed services. The
Company has deter mined that any unbilled consideration relates entirely to the value of the undeliver ed services.
Accordingly, the Company has not recogni zed revenue, and does not disclose amounts, related to these undeliver ed
services.
For the sale of third-party products wher e the Company obtains contr ol of the product befor e transfer ring it to the
customer, the Company recognizes revenue based on the gross amount billed to customers. The Company
considers multiple factors when deter mining whether it obtains contr ol of third-party products, including evaluating
if it can establish the price of the product, retains inventory risk for tangible products or has the responsibility for
ensuring acceptability of the product. For third-party applications sold through the App Store, the Company does not
obtain control of the product befor e transfer ring it to the customer . Therefore, the Company accounts for all third-
party application–r elated sales on a net basis by r ecognizing in Services net sales only the commission it r etains.® ®
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 34
Net sales disaggr egated by signiﬁcant pr oducts and services for 2023, 2022 and 2021 wer e as follows (in millions):
2023 2022 2021
iPhone $ 200,583  $ 205,489  $ 191,973  
Mac 29,357   40,177   35,190  
iPad 28,300   29,292   31,862  
Wearables, Home and A ccessories 39,845   41,241   38,367  
Services 85,200   78,129   68,425  
Total net sales $ 383,285  $ 394,328  $ 365,817  
(1)Products net sales include amortization of the deferred value of unspeciﬁed software upgrade rights, which are
bundled in the sales price of the respective product.
(2)Services net sales include amortization of the deferred value of services bundled in the sales price of certain
products.
Total net sales include $8.2 billion of revenue recognized in 2023 that was included in defer red revenue as of
September  24, 2022, $7.5 billion of revenue recognized in 2022 that was included in defer red revenue as of
September  25, 2021, and $6.7 billion of revenue recognized in 2021 that was included in defer red revenue as of
September 26, 2020.
The Company’s proportion of net sales by disaggr egated revenue source was generally consistent for each
reportable segment in Note 13, “Segment Information and Geographic Data” for 2023, 2022 and 2021, except in
Greater China, wher e iPhone r evenue r epresented a moderately higher pr oportion of net sales.
As of Septe mber  30, 2023 and September  24, 2022, the Company had total defer red revenue of $12.1 billion and
$12.4 billion, respectively . As of September  30, 2023, the Company expects 67% of total defer red revenue to be
realized in less than a year, 25% within one-to -two years, 7% within two-to-three years and 1% in greater than three
years.
Note 3 – Earnings Per Share
The following table shows the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share for 2023, 2022 and 2021 (net
income in millions and shar es in thousands):
2023 2022 2021
Numerator :
Net income $ 96,995  $ 99,803  $ 94,680  
Denominator :
Weighted-average basic shar es outstanding 15,744,231   16,215,963   16,701,272  
Eﬀect of dilutive shar e-based awar ds 68,316   109,856   163,647  
Weighted-average diluted shar es 15,812,547   16,325,819   16,864,919  
Basic ear nings per shar e $ 6.16 $ 6.15 $ 5.67 
Diluted ear nings per shar e $ 6.13 $ 6.11 $ 5.61 
Approximately 24 million restricted stock units (“RSUs”) were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per
share for 2023 because their eﬀect would have been antidilutive.(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(2)
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 35
Note 4 – Financial Instruments
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Mark etable Securities
The following tables show the Compan y’s cash, cash equivalents and mark etable securities by signiﬁcant
investment category as of September 30, 2023 and September 24, 2022 (in millions):
2023
Adjusted
CostUnrealized
GainsUnrealized
LossesFair
ValueCash and
Cash
EquivalentsCurrent
Marketable
SecuritiesNon-Current
Marketable
Securities
Cash $28,359 $ — $ — $28,359 $ 28,359 $ — $ — 
Level 1:
Money market funds 481  —  —  481  481  —  — 
Mutual funds and equity
securities 442  12  (26) 428  —  428  — 
Subtotal 923  12  (26) 909  481  428  — 
Level 2 :
U.S. Treasury securities 19,406  —  (1,292) 18,114  35  5,468  12,611 
U.S. agency securities 5,736  —  (600) 5,136  36  271  4,829 
Non-U.S. government
securities 17,533  6  (1,048) 16,491  —  11,332  5,159 
Certiﬁcates of deposit and
time deposits 1,354  —  —  1,354  1,034  320  — 
Commercial paper 608  —  —  608  —  608  — 
Corporate debt securities 76,840  6  (5,956) 70,890  20  12,627  58,243 
Municipal securities 628  —  (26) 602  —  192  410 
Mortgage- and asset-backed
securities 22,365  6  (2,735) 19,636  —  344  19,292 
Subtotal 144,470  18  (11,657) 132,831  1,125  31,162  100,544 
Total $173,752 $ 30 $(11,683)$162,099 $ 29,965 $ 31,590 $ 100,544 
2022
Adjusted
CostUnrealized
GainsUnrealized
LossesFair
ValueCash and
Cash
EquivalentsCurrent
Marketable
SecuritiesNon-Current
Marketable
Securities
Cash $18,546 $ — $ — $18,546 $ 18,546 $ — $ — 
Level 1:
Money market funds 2,929  —  —  2,929  2,929  —  — 
Mutual funds 274  —  (47) 227  —  227  — 
Subtotal 3,203  —  (47) 3,156  2,929  227  — 
Level 2 :
U.S. Treasury securities 25,134  —  (1,725) 23,409  338  5,091  17,980 
U.S. agency securities 5,823  —  (655) 5,168  —  240  4,928 
Non-U.S. government
securities 16,948  2  (1,201) 15,749  —  8,806  6,943 
Certiﬁcates of deposit and
time deposits 2,067  —  —  2,067  1,805  262  — 
Commercial paper 718  —  —  718  28  690  — 
Corporate debt securities 87,148  9  (7,707) 79,450  —  9,023  70,427 
Municipal securities 921  —  (35) 886  —  266  620 
Mortgage- and asset-backed
securities 22,553  —  (2,593) 19,960  —  53  19,907 
Subtotal 161,312  11  (13,916) 147,407  2,171  24,431  120,805 
Total $183,061 $ 11 $(13,963)$169,109 $ 23,646 $ 24,658 $ 120,805 
(1)The valuation techniques used to measure the fair values of the Company’s Level 2 ﬁnancial instruments, which
generally have counterparties with high credit ratings, are based on quoted market prices or model-driven
valuations using signiﬁcant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data.
(2)As of September 30, 2023 and September 24, 2022, total marketable securities included $13.8 billion and $12.7
billion, respectively, that were restricted from general use, related to the State Aid Decision (refer to Note 7,
“Income Taxes”) and other agreements.(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 36
The following table shows the fair value of the Company’s non-cur rent mark etable debt securities, by contractual
maturity, as of September 30, 2023 (in millions):
Due af ter 1 year thr ough 5 years $ 74,427  
Due af ter 5 years thr ough 10 years 9,964  
Due af ter 10 years 16,153  
Total fair value $ 100,544  
The Compa ny’s inves tments in mark etable debt securities have been classiﬁed and accounted for as available-for -
sale. The Company classiﬁes mark etable debt securities as either current or non-current based solely on each
instrument’s underlying contractual maturity date.
Derivative Instruments and Hedging
The Compa ny may use derivative instrum ents to partially oﬀset its business exposur e to foreign exchange and
interest rate risk. However, the Company may choose not to hedge certain exposur es for a variety of reasons
including accounting considerations or the prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposur es. There can be
no assuran ce the hedges will oﬀset more than a portion of the ﬁnancial impact resulting from movements in foreign
exchange or inter est rates.
The Comp any classiﬁ es cash ﬂows related to derivative instruments in the same section of the Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows as the items being hedged, which ar e generally classiﬁed as operating activities.
Foreign Exchange Rate Risk
To protect gross margins from ﬂuctuations in foreign exchange rates, the Company may use forwar ds, options or
other instruments, and may designate these instruments as cash ﬂow hedges. The Company generally hedges
portions of its forecasted foreign currency  exposur e associated with revenue and inventory purchases, typically for
up to 12 months.
To protect the Company’s foreign currency–denominated term debt or mark etable  securities from ﬂuctuations in
foreign exchange rates, the Company may use forwar ds, cross-cur rency swaps or other instruments. The Company
designates these instruments as either cash ﬂow or fair value hedges. As of September  30, 2023, the maximum
length of time over which the Company is hedging its exposur e to the variability in futur e cash ﬂows for term debt–
related for eign cur rency transactions is 19 years.
The Company may also use derivative instruments that are not designated as accounting hedges to protect gross
margins from certain  ﬂuctuations in foreign exchange rates, as well as to oﬀset a portion of the foreign currency
gains and losses generated by the remea surement of certain assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional
currencies.
Interest Rate Risk
To protect the Company’s term debt or mark etable securities from ﬂuctuations in interest rates, the Company may
use interest rate swaps, options or other instruments. The Company designates these instruments as either cash
ﬂow or fair value hedges.
The notional amounts of the Company’ s outstanding derivative instruments as of September  30, 2023 and
September 24, 2022 wer e as follows (in millions):
2023 2022
Derivative instruments designated as accounting hedges:
Foreign e xchange contracts $ 74,730  $ 102,670  
Interest rate contracts $ 19,375  $ 20,125  
Derivative instruments not designated as accounting hedges:
Foreign e xchange contracts $ 104,777  $ 185,381  
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 37
The gross fair values of the Company’s derivative assets and liabilities as of September  24, 2022 were as follows (in
millions):
2022
Fair Value of
Derivatives Designated
as Accounting HedgesFair Value of
Derivatives Not
Designated
as Accounting HedgesTotal
Fair Value
Derivative assets :
Foreign e xchange contracts $ 4,317  $ 2,819  $ 7,136  
Derivative liabilities :
Foreign e xchange contracts $ 2,205  $ 2,547  $ 4,752  
Interest rate contracts $ 1,367  $ — $ 1,367  
(1)Derivative assets are measured using Level 2 fair value inputs and are included in other current assets and other
non-current assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
(2)Derivative liabilities are measured using Level 2 fair value inputs and are included in other current liabilities and
other non-current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The derivative assets above represent the Company’s gross credit exposur e if all counterparties failed to perfor m. To
mitigate credit risk, the Company general ly uses collateral security arrangements that provide for collateral to be
received or posted when the net fair values of certain derivatives ﬂuctuate from contractually established
thresholds. To further limit credit risk, the Company generally uses master netting arrangements with the respective
counterparties to the Company’s derivative contracts, under which the Company is allowed to settle transactions
with a single net amount payable by one party to the other . As of September  24, 2022, the potential eﬀects of these
rights of set-oﬀ associated with the Company’s derivative contracts, including the eﬀects of collateral, would be a
reduction to both derivative assets and derivative liabilities of $7.8 billion, resulting in a net derivative asset of $412
million.
The carrying amounts of the Company’s  hedged items in fair value hedges as of September  30, 2023 and
September 24, 2022 wer e as follows (in millions):
2023 2022
Hedged assets/(liabilities):
Current and non-cur rent mark etable securities $ 14,433  $ 13,378  
Current and non-cur rent ter m debt $ (18,247 )$ (18,739 )
Accounts Receivable
Trade Receivables
As of September 24, 2022, the Company had one customer that represented 10% or more of total trade receivables,
which accounted for 10%. The Company’s third-party cellular network carriers accounted for 41% and 44% of total
trade receivables as of September  30, 2023 and September  24, 2022, respectivel y. The Company requir es third-
party cr edit support or collateral fr om certain customers to limit cr edit risk.
Vendor Non- Trade Receivables
The Company has non-trade receivables from certain of its manufacturing vend ors resulting from the sale of
components to these vendors who manu factur e subassemblies or assemble ﬁnal products for the Company . The
Company purchases these components directly from suppliers. The Company does not reﬂect the sale of these
components in products net sales. Rather, the Company recognizes any gain on these sales as a reduction of
products cost of sales when the related ﬁnal products are sold by the Company . As of September  30, 2023, the
Company had two vendors that individually represented 10% or more of total vendor non-trade receivables, which
accounted for 48% and 23%. As of September  24, 2022, the Company had two vend ors that individu ally represented
10% or mor e of total vendor non-trade r eceivables, which accounted for 54% and 13%.(1)
(2)
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 38
Note 5 – Property , Plant and Equipment
The following table shows the Compan y’s gross property, plant and equipme nt by major asset class and
accumulated depr eciation as of September 30, 2023 and September 24, 2022 (in millions):
2023 2022
Land and buildings $ 23,446  $ 22,126  
Machinery, equipment and inter nal-use sof tware 78,314   81,060  
Leasehold impr ovements 12,839   11,271  
Gross pr operty, plant and equipment 114,599   114,457  
Accumulated depr eciation (70,884 ) (72,340 )
Total pr operty, plant and equipment, net $ 43,715  $ 42,117  
Depr eciation expense on property, plant and equipment was $8.5 billion, $8.7 billion and $9.5 billion during 2023,
2022 and 2021, r espectively .
Note 6 – Consolidated Financial Statement Details
The followi ng tables show the Company’s  consolidated ﬁnancial statement details as of September  30, 2023 and
September 24, 2022 (in millions):
Other Non-Current Assets
2023 2022
Defer red tax assets $ 17,852  $ 15,375  
Other non-cur rent assets 46,906   39,053  
Total other non-cur rent assets $ 64,758  $ 54,428  
Other Current Liabilities
2023 2022
Income tax es payable $ 8,819  $ 6,552  
Other cur rent liabilities 50,010   54,293  
Total other cur rent liabilities $ 58,829  $ 60,845  
Other Non-Current Liabilities
2023 2022
Long-ter m tax es payable $ 15,457  $ 16,657  
Other non-cur rent liabilities 34,391   32,485  
Total other non-cur rent liabilities $ 49,848  $ 49,142  
Other Income/(Expense), Net
The following table shows the detail of other income/(e xpense), net for 2023, 2022 and 2021 (in millions):
2023 2022 2021
Interest and dividend income $ 3,750  $ 2,825  $ 2,843  
Interest e xpense (3,933 ) (2,931 ) (2,645 )
Other income/(e xpense), net (382) (228) 60 
Total other income/(e xpense), net $ (565)$ (334)$ 258 
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 39
Note 7 – Income T axes
Provision for Income T axes and Eﬀective T ax Rate
The pr ovision for income tax es for 2023, 2022 and 2021, consisted of the following (in millions):
2023 2022 2021
Federal:
Current $ 9,445  $ 7,890  $ 8,257  
Defer red (3,644 ) (2,265 ) (7,176 )
Total 5,801   5,625   1,081  
State:
Current 1,570   1,519   1,620  
Defer red (49) 84  (338)
Total 1,521   1,603   1,282  
Foreign:
Current 8,750   8,996   9,424  
Defer red 669  3,076   2,740  
Total 9,419   12,072   12,164  
Provision for income tax es $ 16,741  $ 19,300  $ 14,527  
The foreign provision for income taxes is based on foreign pretax earnings of $72.9 billion, $71.3 billion and $68.7
billion in 2023, 2022 and 2021, r espectively .
A reconcilia tion of the provision for income taxes to the amount computed by applying the statutory federal income
tax rate (21% in 2023, 2022 and 2021) to income befor e provision for income taxes for 2023, 2022 and 2021, is as
follows (dollars in millions):
2023 2022 2021
Computed e xpected tax $ 23,885  $ 25,012  $ 22,933  
State tax es, net of federal eﬀect 1,124   1,518   1,151  
Earnings of for eign subsidiaries (5,744 ) (4,366 ) (4,715 )
Resear ch and development cr edit, net (1,212 ) (1,153 ) (1,033 )
Excess tax beneﬁts fr om equity awar ds (1,120 ) (1,871 ) (2,137 )
Foreign-derived intangible income deduction —  (296) (1,372 )
Other (192) 456  (300)
Provision for income tax es $ 16,741  $ 19,300  $ 14,527  
Eﬀective tax rate 14.7 % 16.2 % 13.3 %
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 40
Deferred T ax Assets and Liabilities
As of September  30, 2023 and September  24, 2022, the signiﬁcant components of the Company’s defer red tax
assets and liabilities wer e (in millions):
2023 2022
Defer red tax assets:
Tax cr edit car ryforwar ds $ 8,302  $ 6,962  
Accrued liabilities and other r eserves 6,365   6,515  
Capitalized r esear ch and development 6,294   1,267  
Defer red revenue 4,571   5,742  
Unrealized losses 2,447   2,913  
Lease liabilities 2,421   2,400  
Other 2,343   3,407  
Total defer red tax assets 32,743   29,206  
Less: V aluation allowance (8,374 ) (7,530 )
Total defer red tax assets, net 24,369   21,676  
Defer red tax liabilities:
Right- of-use assets 2,179   2,163  
Depr eciation 1,998   1,582  
Minimum tax on for eign ear nings 1,940   1,983  
Unrealized gains 511  942 
Other 490  469 
Total defer red tax liabilities 7,118   7,139  
Net defer red tax assets $ 17,251  $ 14,537  
As of September  30, 2023, the Compan y had $5.2 billion in foreign tax credit carryforwar ds in Ireland and
$3.0 billion in Califor nia R&D credit carryforwar ds, both of which can be carried forwar d indeﬁnitely . A valuation
allowance has been r ecorded for the cr edit car ryforwar ds and a portion of other temporary diﬀer ences.
Uncertain T ax Positions
As of September  30, 2023, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax beneﬁts was $19.5 billion, of which $9.5
billion, if recognized, would impact the Company’s eﬀective tax rate. As of September  24, 2022, the total amount of
gross unrecognized tax beneﬁts was $16.8 billion, of which $8.0 billion, if recognized, would have impacted the
Company’s eﬀective tax rate.
The aggregate change in the balance of gross unrecognized tax beneﬁts, which excludes interest and penalties, for
2023, 2022 and 2021, is as follows (in millions):
2023 2022 2021
Beginning balances $ 16,758  $ 15,477  $ 16,475  
Increases r elated to tax positions tak en during a prior year 2,044   2,284   816 
Decreases r elated to tax positions tak en during a prior year (1,463 ) (1,982 ) (1,402 )
Increases r elated to tax positions tak en during the cur rent year 2,628   1,936   1,607  
Decreases r elated to settlements with taxing authorities (19) (28) (1,838 )
Decreases r elated to e xpiration of the statute of limitations (494) (929) (181)
Ending balances $ 19,454  $ 16,758  $ 15,477  
The Company is subje ct to taxation and ﬁles income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and many state and
foreign jurisd ictions. Tax years after 2017 for the U.S. federal jurisdiction, and after 2014 in certain major foreign
jurisdictions, remain subject to examinati on. Altho ugh the timing of resolution or closur e of examinations is not
certain, the Company believes it is reasonably possible that its gross unrecognized tax beneﬁts could decrease in
the ne xt 12 months by as much as $ 4.5 billion.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 41
European Commission State Aid Decision
On August 30, 2016, the European Commission announced its decision that Ireland granted state aid to the
Company by providing tax opinions in 1991  and 2007 concer ning the tax allocation of proﬁts of the Irish branches of
two subsidiarie s of the Company (the “State Aid Decision ”). The State Aid Decision ordered Ireland to calculate and
recover additional taxes from the Compa ny for the period June 2003 through December 2014. Irish legislative
changes, eﬀective as of January 2015, eliminated the application of the tax opinio ns from that date forwar d. The
recovery amount was calculated to be €13.1 billion, plus interest of €1.2 billion. The Company and Ireland appealed
the State Aid Decision to the General Court of the Court of Justice of the European Union (the “General Court”). On
July 15, 2020, the General Court annulled the State Aid Decision. On September 25, 2020, the European Commission
appealed the General Court’s decision to the European Court of Justice (the “ECJ”) and a hearing was held on May
23, 2023. A decision from the ECJ is expected in calendar year 2024. The Company believes it would be eligible to
claim a U.S. for eign tax cr edit for a portion of any incr emental Irish corporate income tax es potentially due r elated to
the State Aid Decision.
On an annual basis, the Company may request approval from the Irish Minister for Finance to reduce the recovery
amount for certain taxes paid to other countries. As of September  30, 2023, the adjusted recovery amount was
€12.7 billion, excluding interest. The adjusted recovery amount plus interest is funded into escrow, wher e it will
remain restricted from general use pending the conclusion of all legal proceedings. Refer to the Cash, Cash
Equivalents and Mark etable Securities section of Note 4, “ Financial Instruments” for mor e infor mation.
Note 8 – Leases
The Comp any has lease arrangements for certain equipment and facilities, including corporate, data center,
manufacturing and retail space. These leases typically have original terms not exceeding 10 years and generally
contain multiyear r enewal options, some of which ar e reasonably certain of e xercise.
Payments under the Company’s lease arrangements may be ﬁxed or variable, and variable lease payments are
primarily based on purchases of output of the underlying leased assets. Lease costs associated with ﬁxed payments
on the Company’s operating leases were $2.0 billion, $1.9 billion and $1.7 billion for 2023, 2022 and 2021,
respectively . Lease costs associated with variable payments on the Company’s leases were $13.9 billion, $14.9
billion and $ 12.9 billion for 2023, 2022 and 2021, r espectively .
The Company made $1.9 billion, $1.8 billion and $1.4 billion of ﬁxed cash payments related to operating leases in
2023, 2022  and 2021, respectively . Noncas h activities involving right- of-use (“ROU”) assets obtained in exchange for
lease liabilities wer e $2.1 billion, $ 2.8 billion and $ 3.3 billion for 2023, 2022 and 2021, r espectively .
The following table shows ROU assets and lease liabilities, and the associated ﬁnan cial statement line items, as of
September 30, 2023 and September 24, 2022 (in millions):
Lease-Related Assets and Liabilities Financial Statement Line Items 2023 2022
Right- of-use assets:
Operating leases Other non-cur rent assets $ 10,661  $ 10,417  
Finance leases Property, plant and equipment, net 1,015   952 
Total right- of-use assets $ 11,676  $ 11,369  
Lease liabilities:
Operating leases Other cur rent liabilities $ 1,410  $ 1,534  
Other non-cur rent liabilities 10,408   9,936  
Finance leases Other cur rent liabilities 165  129 
Other non-cur rent liabilities 859  812 
Total lease liabilities $ 12,842  $ 12,411  
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 42
Lease liability maturities as of September 30, 2023, ar e as follows (in millions):
Operating
LeasesFinance
Leases Total
2024 $ 1,719  $ 196 $ 1,915  
2025 1,875   151  2,026  
2026 1,732   120  1,852  
2027 1,351   52  1,403  
2028 1,181   34  1,215  
Thereafter 5,983   872  6,855  
Total undiscounted liabilities 13,841   1,425   15,266  
Less: Imputed inter est (2,023 ) (401) (2,424 )
Total lease liabilities $ 11,818  $ 1,024  $ 12,842  
The weighted-average remaining lease term related to the Company’s lease liabilities as of September  30, 2023 and
September  24, 2022 was 10.6 years and 10.1 years, respectively . The discount rate related to the Company’s lease
liabilities as of September  30, 2023 and September  24, 2022 was 3.0% and 2.3%, respectively . The discount rates
related to the Compa ny’s lease liabilities are generally based on estimates of the Company’s incremental borrowing
rate, as the discount rates implicit in the Company’s leases cannot be r eadily deter mined.
As of September  30, 2023, the Company had $544 million of futur e payments under additional leases, primarily for
corporate facilities and retail space, that had not yet commenced. These leases will commence between 2024 and
2026, with lease ter ms ranging fr om 1 year to 21 years.
Note 9 – Debt
Commercial P aper
The Company issues unsecur ed short-te rm promissory notes pursuant to a commer cial paper program. The
Company uses net proceeds from the commer cial paper program for general corporate purposes, including
dividends and share repurchases. As of September  30, 2023 and September  24, 2022, the Company had $6.0 billion
and $10.0 billion of commer cial paper outstanding, respectively, with maturities generally less than nine months .
The weighted-average interest rate of the Company’s commer cial paper was 5.28% and 2.31% as of September  30,
2023 and September  24, 2022, respectively . The following table provides a summary of cash ﬂows associated with
the issuance and maturities of commer cial paper for 2023, 2022 and 2021 (in millions):
2023 2022 2021
Maturities 90 days or less:
Proceeds fr om/(R epayments of) commer cial paper, net $ (1,333 )$ 5,264  $ (357)
Maturities gr eater than 90 days:
Proceeds fr om commer cial paper —  5,948   7,946  
Repayments of commer cial paper (2,645 ) (7,257 ) (6,567 )
Proceeds fr om/(R epayments of) commer cial paper, net (2,645 ) (1,309 ) 1,379  
Total pr oceeds fr om/(r epayments of) commer cial paper,
net $ (3,978 )$ 3,955  $ 1,022  
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 43
Term Debt
The Company has outstanding Notes, which are senior unsecur ed obligations with interest payable in arrears. The
following table provides a summary of the Company’s term debt as of September  30, 2023 and September  24,
2022:
Maturities
(calendar year)2023 2022
Amount
(in millions)Eﬀective
Interest RateAmount
(in millions)Eﬀective
Interest Rate
2013 – 2022 debt issuances:
Fixed-rate 0.000% – 4.650% notes 2024 – 2062 $101,322 0.03% – 6.72% $111,824 0.03% – 4.78%
Third quarter 2023 debt issuance:
Fixed-rate 4.000% – 4.850% notes 2026 – 2053 5,250 4.04% – 4.88% — 
Total term debt principal 106,572  111,824 
Unamortized premium/(discount) and
issuance costs, net (356) (374)
Hedge accounting fair value adjustments (1,113) (1,363)
Total term debt 105,103  110,087 
Less: Current portion of term debt (9,822) (11,128)
Total non-current portion of term debt $ 95,281  $ 98,959 
To manage interest rate risk on certain of its U.S. dollar–denominated ﬁxed-rate notes, the Company uses interest
rate swaps to eﬀecti vely convert the ﬁxed interest rates to ﬂoating interest rates on a portion of these notes.
Additionally, to manage foreign exchange rate risk on certain of its foreign currency–denominated notes, the
Company uses cr oss-cur rency swaps to eﬀectively convert these notes to U.S. dollar–denominated notes.
The eﬀective interest rates for the Notes include the interest on the Notes, amortization of the discount or premium
and, if applicable, adjustments related to hedging. The Company recognized $3.7 billion, $2.8 billion and $2.6 billion
of inter est e xpense on its ter m debt for 2023, 2022 and 2021, r espectively .
The futur e principal payments for the Company’s Notes as of September 30, 2023, ar e as follows (in millions):
2024 $ 9,943  
2025 10,775  
2026 12,265  
2027 9,786  
2028 7,800  
Thereafter 56,003  
Total ter m debt principal $ 106,572  
As of September  30, 2023 and September  24, 2022, the fair value of the Company’s Notes, based on Level 2 inputs,
was $ 90.8 billion and $ 98.8 billion, r espectively .
Note 10 – Shareholders’ Equity
Share Repurchase Program
During 2023, the Company repurchased 471 million shares of its common stock for $76.6 billion, excluding excise
tax due under the Inﬂation Reduction Act of 2022. The Company’s share repurchase programs do not obligate the
Company to acquir e a minimum amount of shares. Under the programs, shares may be repurchased in privately
negotiated or open mark et transactions, including under plans complying with R ule 10b5-1 under the Ex change A ct.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 44
Shares of Common Stock
The following table shows the changes in shar es of common stock for 2023, 2022 and 2021 (in thousands):
2023 2022 2021
Common stock outstanding, beginning balances 15,943,425   16,426,786   16,976,763  
Common stock r epurchased (471,419 ) (568,589 ) (656,340 )
Common stock issued, net of shar es withheld for employee
taxes 78,055   85,228   106,363  
Common stock outstanding, ending balances 15,550,061   15,943,425   16,426,786  
Note 11 – Share-Based Compensation
2022 Employee Stock Plan
The Apple Inc. 2022 Employee Stock Plan (the “2022 Plan”) is a shareholder -appr oved plan that provides for broad-
based equity grants to employees, includ ing executive oﬃcers, and permits the granting of RSUs, stock grants,
perfor mance-based awards, stock options and stock appreciation rights. RSUs granted under the 2022 Plan
generally vest over four years, based on continued  employment, and are settled upon vesting in shares of the
Company’s common stock on a one-for-one basis. All RSUs granted under the 2022 Plan have dividend equivalent
rights, which entitle holders of RSUs to the same dividend value per share as holders  of common stock. A maximum
of approximately 1.3 billion shares were authorized for issuance pursuant to 2022 Plan awar ds at the time the plan
was appr oved on Mar ch 4, 2022.
2014 Employee Stock Plan
The Apple Inc. 2014 Employee Stock Plan (the “2014 Plan”) is a shareholder -appr oved plan that provided for broad-
based equity grants to employees, including executive oﬃcers. The 2014 Plan permitted the granting of
substantially the same types of equity awar ds with substantially the same terms as the 2022 Plan. The 2014 Plan
also permitted the granting of cash bonus awar ds. In the third quarter of 2022, the Company terminated the
authority to grant new awar ds under the 2014 Plan.
Restricted Stock Units
A summary of the Company’s RSU activity and r elated infor mation for 2023, 2022 and 2021, is as follows:
Number of
RSUs
(in thousands)Weighted-Average
Grant Date Fair
Value Per RSUAggregate
Fair Value
(in millions)
Balance as of September 26, 2020 310,778  $ 51.58  
RSUs granted 89,363  $ 116.33  
RSUs vested (145,766 )$ 50.71  
RSUs canceled (13,948 )$ 68.95  
Balance as of September 25, 2021 240,427  $ 75.16  
RSUs granted 91,674  $ 150.70  
RSUs vested (115,861 )$ 72.12  
RSUs canceled (14,739 )$ 99.77  
Balance as of September 24, 2022 201,501  $ 109.48  
RSUs granted 88,768  $ 150.87  
RSUs vested (101,878 )$ 97.31  
RSUs canceled (8,144 )$ 127.98  
Balance as of September 30, 2023 180,247  $ 135.91  $ 30,860  
The fair value as of the respective vesting dates of RSUs was $15.9 billion, $18.2 billion and $19.0 billion for 2023,
2022 and 2021, respe ctively . The majority of RSUs that vested in 2023, 2022 and 2021 were net share settled such
that the Company withheld shares with a value equivalent to the employees’ obligation for the applicable income
and other employment taxes, and remitted the cash to the appropriate taxing authorities. The total shares withheld
were approximately 37 million, 41 million and 53 million for 2023, 2022 and 2021, respecti vely, and were based on
the value of the RSUs on their respective vesting dates as deter mined by the Company’s closing stock price. Total
payments to taxing authorities for employe es’ tax obligations were $5.6 billion, $6.4 billion and $6.8 billion in 2023,
2022 and 2021, r espectively .
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 45
Share-Based Compensation
The following table shows share-based compensation expense and the related income tax beneﬁt included in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations for 2023, 2022 and 2021 (in millions):
2023 2022 2021
Share-based compensation e xpense $ 10,833  $ 9,038  $ 7,906  
Income tax beneﬁt r elated to shar e-based compensation e xpense $ (3,421 )$ (4,002 )$ (4,056 )
As of September  30, 2023, the total unrecognized compensation cost related to outstanding RSUs was $18.6 billion,
which the Company e xpects to r ecognize over a weighted-average period of 2.5 years.
Note 12 – Commitments, Contingencies and Supply Concentrations
Unconditional Purchase Obligations
The Company has enter ed into certain oﬀ–balance sheet commitments that requir e the futur e purchase of goods or
services (“uncondition al purchase obligations”). The Company’s unconditional purchase obligations primarily consist
of supplier arrangements, licensed intellec tual property and content, and distribution rights. Future payments under
noncancelable unconditional purchase obligations with a remaining term in excess of one year as of September  30,
2023, ar e as follows (in millions):
2024 $ 4,258  
2025 2,674  
2026 3,434  
2027 1,277  
2028 5,878  
Thereafter 3,215  
Total $ 20,736  
Contingencies
The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen in the ordinary course of business
and that have not been fully resolved.  The outcome of litigation is inher ently uncertain. In the opinion of
management, there was not at least a reasonable possibility the Company may have incur red a material loss, or a
material loss gr eater than a r ecorded accrual, concer ning loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims.
Concentrations in the A vailable Sources of Supply of Materials and Product
Although most comp onents essential to the Company’s business are generally available from multiple sources,
certain components are currently obtained from single or limited sources. The Company also competes for various
components with other participants in the mark ets for smartphones, personal computers, tablets, wearables and
accessories. Therefore, many components  used by the Company, including those that are available from multiple
sources, ar e at times subject to industry -wide shortage and signiﬁcant commodity pricing ﬂuctuations.
The Company uses some custom components that are not commonly used by its competitors, and new products
introduced by the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When a component or
product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may e xist until the suppliers’ yields have matur ed or their
manufacturing capacities have increased. The continued availability of these compon ents at acceptable prices, or at
all, may be aﬀected if suppliers decide to concentrate on the production of common components instead of
components customized to meet the Company’s r equir ements.
Substantially all of the Company’s hardwar e products are manufactur ed by outsou rcing partners that are located
primarily in China mainland, India, Japan, South K orea, Taiwan and V ietnam.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 46
Note 13 – Segment Information and Geographic Data
The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis. The Company’s reportable segments consist of
the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest of Asia Paciﬁc. Americas includes both North and South
America. Europe includes European countries, as well as India, the Middle East and Africa. Greater China includes
China mainland, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Rest of Asia Paciﬁc includes Australia and those Asian countries not
included in the Comp any’s other reportable segments. Although the reportable segm ents provide similar hardwar e
and software products and similar services , each one is managed separately to better align with the location of the
Company’s customers and distribution partners and the unique mark et dynamics of each geographic r egion.
The Company evaluates the perfor mance of its reportable segments based on net sales and operating income. Net
sales for geographic segments are generally based on the location of customers and sales through the Company’s
retail stores located in those geographic locations. Operating income for each segment consists of net sales to third
parties, related cost of sales, and operatin g expenses directly attributable to the segment. The information provided
to the Company’s chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions and assessing segment
perfor mance e xcludes asset infor mation.
The following table shows infor mation by r eportable segment for 2023, 2022 and 2021 (in millions):
2023 2022 2021
Americas:
Net sales $ 162,560  $ 169,658  $ 153,306  
Operating income $ 60,508  $ 62,683  $ 53,382  
Europe:
Net sales $ 94,294  $ 95,118  $ 89,307  
Operating income $ 36,098  $ 35,233  $ 32,505  
Greater China:
Net sales $ 72,559  $ 74,200  $ 68,366  
Operating income $ 30,328  $ 31,153  $ 28,504  
Japan:
Net sales $ 24,257  $ 25,977  $ 28,482  
Operating income $ 11,888  $ 12,257  $ 12,798  
Rest of Asia P aciﬁc:
Net sales $ 29,615  $ 29,375  $ 26,356  
Operating income $ 12,066  $ 11,569  $ 9,817  
A reconciliation of the Company’s segme nt operating income to the Consolidated  Statements of Operations for
2023, 2022 and 2021 is as follows (in millions):
2023 2022 2021
Segment operating income $ 150,888  $ 152,895  $ 137,006  
Resear ch and development e xpense (29,915 ) (26,251 ) (21,914 )
Other corporate e xpenses, net (6,672 ) (7,207 ) (6,143 )
Total operating income $ 114,301  $ 119,437  $ 108,949  
(1)Includes corporate marketing expenses, certain share-based compensation expenses, various nonrecurring
charges, and other separately managed general and administrative costs.(1)
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 47
The U.S. and China were the only countrie s that accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s net sales in 2023,
2022 and 2021. Net sales for 2023, 2022 and 2021 and long-lived assets as of September  30, 2023 and
September 24, 2022 wer e as follows (in millions):
2023 2022 2021
Net sales:
U.S. $ 138,573  $ 147,859  $ 133,803  
China 72,559   74,200   68,366  
Other countries 172,153   172,269   163,648  
Total net sales $ 383,285  $ 394,328  $ 365,817  
2023 2022
Long-lived assets:
U.S. $ 33,276  $ 31,119  
China 5,778   7,260  
Other countries 4,661   3,738  
Total long-lived assets $ 43,715  $ 42,117  
(1)China includes Hong Kong and Taiwan. (1)
(1)
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 48
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shar eholders and the Boar d of Dir ectors of Apple Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Apple Inc. as of September  30, 2023 and
September  24, 2022, the related consolidated statements of operations, compr ehensive income, shareholders’
equity and cash ﬂows for each of the three years in the period ended September  30, 2023, and the related notes
(collectively referred to as the “ﬁnancial statements”). In our opinion, the ﬁnancial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the ﬁnancial position of Apple Inc. at September  30, 2023 and September  24, 2022, and the
results of its operations and its cash ﬂows for each of the three years in the period  ended September  30, 2023, in
confor mity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accor dance with the standar ds of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States) (the “PCAOB”), Apple Inc.’s internal contr ol over ﬁnancial reporting as of September  30, 2023, based on
criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework  issued by the Commi ttee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated November  2, 2023 expressed an unqualiﬁed
opinion ther eon.
Basis for Opinion
These ﬁnancial statements are the respon sibility of Apple Inc.’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on Apple Inc.’s ﬁnancial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting ﬁrm register ed with the
PCAOB and are requir ed to be independen t with respect to Apple Inc. in accor dance  with the U.S. federal securities
laws and the applicable rules and r egulations of the U.S. Securities and Ex change Commission and the PCA OB.
We conducted our audits in accor dance with the standar ds of the PCAOB. Those standards requir e that we plan and
perfor m the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the ﬁnancial statements are free of material
misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included perfor ming procedur es to assess the risks of
material misstatement of the ﬁnancial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and perfor ming procedur es that
respond to those risks. Such procedur es included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and
disclosur es in the ﬁnancial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and
signiﬁcant estimates  made by managem ent, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial
statements. W e believe that our audits pr ovide a r easonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matter
The critica l audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the ﬁnancial
statements that was communicated or requir ed to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to
accounts or disclosur es that are material to the ﬁnancial statements and (2) invol ved our especially challenging,
subjective, or comple x judgments. The communication of the critical audit matter does not alter in any way our
opinion on the ﬁnancial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter
below, pr oviding a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the account or disclosur e to which it r elates.
Uncertain T ax Positions
Description of the Matter
As discussed in Note 7 to the ﬁnancial statements, Apple Inc. is subject to taxation
and ﬁles income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and many state and
foreign jurisdictions. As of September  30, 2023, the total amount of gross
unrecognized tax beneﬁts was $19.5 billion, of which $9.5 billion, if recognized,
would impact Apple Inc.’s eﬀective tax rate. In accounting for some of the
uncertain tax positions, Apple Inc. uses signiﬁcant judgment in the interpr etation
and application of comple x domestic and inter national tax laws.
Auditing management’s evaluation of whether an uncertain tax position is more
likely than not to be sustained and the measur ement of the beneﬁt of various tax
positions can be comple x, involves signiﬁcant judgment, and is based on
interpr etations of tax laws and legal rulings.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 49
How W e Addressed the
Matter in Our AuditWe tested contr ols relating to the evaluation of uncertain tax positions, including
contr ols over management’s assessment  as to whether tax positions are more
likely than not to be sustained, manageme nt’s process to measur e the beneﬁt of its
tax positions, and the development of the r elated disclosur es.
To evaluate  Apple Inc.’s assessment of which tax positions are more likely than not
to be sustained, our audit procedur es included, among others, reading and
evaluating management’s assumptions and analysis, and, as applicable, Apple
Inc.’s communication s with taxing authorities, that detailed the basis and technical
merits of the uncertain tax positions. We involved our tax subject matter resour ces
in assessin g the technical merits of certain of Apple Inc.’s tax positions based on
our knowledge of relevant tax laws and experience with related taxing authorities.
For certain tax positions, we also received external legal counsel conﬁr mation
letters and discussed the matters with external advisors and Apple Inc. tax
personnel. In addition, we evaluated Apple Inc.’s disclosur e in relation to these
matters included in Note 7 to the ﬁnancial statements.
/s/ Ernst & Y oung LLP
We have served as Apple Inc.’s auditor since 2009.
San Jose, Califor nia
November 2, 2023
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 50
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shar eholders and the Boar d of Dir ectors of Apple Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
We have audited Apple Inc.’s internal control over ﬁnancial reporting as of September  30, 2023, based on criteria
established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework  issue d by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the “COSO criteria”). In our opinion, Apple Inc. maintained, in all material
respects, eﬀective inter nal contr ol over ﬁnancial r eporting as of September 30, 2023, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accor dance with the standar ds of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States) (the “PCAOB”), the consolidated balance sheets of Apple Inc. as of September  30, 2023 and September  24,
2022, the related consolidated statement s of operations, compr ehensive income, shareholders’ equity and cash
ﬂows for each of the three years in the period ended September  30, 2023, and the related notes and our report
dated November 2, 2023 e xpressed an unqualiﬁed opinion ther eon.
Basis for Opinion
Apple Inc.’s management is responsible for maintaining eﬀective internal contr ol over ﬁnancial reporting, and for its
assessment of the eﬀectiveness of internal contr ol over ﬁnancial reporting included in the accompanying
Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on Apple Inc.’s internal contr ol over ﬁnancial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting ﬁrm
register ed with the PCAOB and are requir ed to be independent with respect to Apple Inc. in accor dance with the U.S.
federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and
the PCA OB.
We conduc ted our audit in accor dance with the standar ds of the PCAOB. Those standards requir e that we plan and
perfor m the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether eﬀective internal contr ol over ﬁnancial reporting
was maintained in all material r espects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal contr ol over ﬁnancial reporting, assessing the risk that a
material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating eﬀectiven ess of internal contr ol based on
the assessed risk, and perfor ming such other procedur es as we consider ed necessary in the circumstances. We
believe that our audit pr ovides a r easonable basis for our opinion.
Deﬁnition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal contr ol over ﬁnancial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of ﬁnancial report ing and the preparation of ﬁnancial statements for external purposes in
accor dance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal contr ol over ﬁnancial reporting
includes those policies and procedur es that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reﬂect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of ﬁnancial statements in accor dance
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditur es of the company are being
made only in accor dance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention  or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material eﬀect on the ﬁnancial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal contr ol over ﬁnancial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of eﬀectiveness to futur e periods are subject to the risk that
contr ols may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or pr ocedur es may deteriorate.
/s/ Er nst & Y oung LLP
San Jose, Califor nia
November 2, 2023
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 51
Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
None.
Item 9A .    Controls and Procedures
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Based on an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, the
Company’s principal executive oﬃcer and principal ﬁnancial oﬃcer have concluded  that the Company’s disclosur e
contr ols and procedur es as deﬁned in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act were eﬀective as of
September  30, 2023 to provide reasonable assurance that information requir ed to be disclosed by the Company in
reports that it ﬁles or submits under the Exchange Act is (i) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within
the time periods speciﬁed in the SEC rules and forms and (ii) accumulated and communicated to the Company’s
management, includi ng its principal executive oﬃcer and principal ﬁnancial oﬃcer,  as appropriate to allow timely
decisions r egarding r equir ed disclosur e.
Inherent Limitations over Internal Controls
The Compa ny’s internal contr ol over ﬁnancial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of ﬁnancial reporting and the preparation of ﬁnancial statements for external purposes in accor dance with
GAAP. The Company’s inter nal contr ol over ﬁnancial r eporting includes those policies and pr ocedur es that: 
(i) pertain to the maint enance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reﬂect the
transactions and dispositions of the Company’s assets;
(ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
ﬁnancial statements in accor dance with GAAP, and that the Company’s receipts and expenditur es are
being made only in accor dance with authorizations of the Company’s management and dir ectors; and
(iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition,
use, or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material eﬀect on the ﬁnancial
statements.
Management, includin g the Company’s Chief Executive Oﬃcer and Chief Financial Oﬃcer, does not expect that the
Company’s internal contr ols will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A contr ol system, no matter how well
designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the contr ol
system are met. Further, the design of a contr ol system must reﬂect the fact that there are resour ce constraints,
and the beneﬁts of contr ols must be consider ed relative to their costs. Because of the inher ent limitations in all
contr ol systems, no evaluation of internal contr ols can provide absolute assuran ce that all contr ol issues and
instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. Also, any evaluation of the eﬀectiveness of contr ols in futur e periods
are subject to the risk that those internal contr ols may become inadequate because of changes in business
conditions, or that the degr ee of compliance with the policies or pr ocedur es may deteriorate.
Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
The Compa ny’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequat e internal contr ol over ﬁnancial
reporting (as deﬁned in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act). Management conducted an assessment of the
eﬀectiveness of the Company’s internal contr ol over ﬁnancial reporting based on the criteria set forth in Internal
Contr ol – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(2013 framework). Based on the Company ’s assessment, management has concluded that its internal contr ol over
ﬁnancial reporting was eﬀective as of September  30, 2023 to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of ﬁnancia l reporting and the preparation of ﬁnancial statements in accor dance with GAAP. The Company’s
independent register ed public accounting ﬁrm, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued an audit report on the Company’s
internal contr ol over ﬁnancial r eporting, which appears in P art II, Item 8 of this F orm 10-K.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
There were no changes in the Company’s internal contr ol over ﬁnancial reporting during the fourth quarter of 2023,
which were identiﬁed in connection with management’s evaluation requir ed by paragraph (d) of Rules 13a-15 and
15d-15 under the Exchange Act, that have materially aﬀected, or are reasonably likely to materially aﬀect, the
Company’s inter nal contr ol over ﬁnancial r eporting.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 52
Item 9B.    Other Information
Insider T rading Arrangements
On August 30, 2023 , Deirdre O’Brien , the Company’s Senior Vice President, Retail, and Jeﬀ Williams , the Company’s
Chief Operating Oﬃcer , each enter ed into a trading plan intended to satisf y the aﬃrmative defense conditions of
Rule 10b5- 1(c) under the Exchange Act. The plans provide for the sale of all shares vested during the duration of the
plans pursuant to certain equity awar ds granted to Ms. O’Brien and Mr. Williams, respectively, excluding any shares
withheld by the Company to satisf y income tax withholding and remittance obligations. Ms. O’Brien’s plan will expire
on Octobe r 15, 2024, and Mr. Williams’ plan will expire on December 15, 2024, subject to early termination for
certain speciﬁed events set forth in the plans.
Item 9C.    Disclosure Regarding F oreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections
Not applicable.
PART III
Item 10.    Directors, Executive Oﬃcers and Corporate Governance
The information requir ed by this Item will be included in the Company’s deﬁnitive proxy statement to be ﬁled with
the SEC within 120 days after September  30, 2023, in connection with the solicitatio n of proxies for the Company’s
2024 annual meeting of shar eholders (the “2024 P roxy Statement”), and is incorporated her ein by r eference.
Item 11.    Executive Compensation
The information requir ed by this Item will be included in the 2024 Proxy Statement , and is incorporated herein by
reference.
Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneﬁcial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters
The information requir ed by this Item will be included in the 2024 Proxy Statement , and is incorporated herein by
reference.
Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related T ransactions, and Director Independence
The information requir ed by this Item will be included in the 2024 Proxy Statement , and is incorporated herein by
reference.
Item 14.    Principal Accountant F ees and Services
The information requir ed by this Item will be included in the 2024 Proxy Statement , and is incorporated herein by
reference.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 53
PART IV
Item 15.    Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules
(a)Documents ﬁled as part of this report
(1)All ﬁnancial statements
Index to Consolidated Financial Statements Page
Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended September 30, 2023, September 24, 2022
and September 25, 2021 28
Consolidated Statements of Compr ehensive Income for the years ended September 30, 2023,
September 24, 2022 and September 25, 2021 29
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2023 and September 24, 2022 30
Consolidated Statements of Shar eholders’ Equity for the years ended September 30, 2023, September
24, 2022 and September 25, 2021 31
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended September 30, 2023, September 24, 2022
and September 25, 2021 32
Notes to Consolidated F inancial Statements 33
Reports of Independent R egister ed Public A ccounting F irm* 49
*Ernst & Young LLP, PCAOB Firm ID No. 00042.
(2)Financial Statement Schedules
All ﬁnancial statement schedules have been omitted, since the requir ed information is not applicable or is not
present in amounts suﬃcient to requir e submission of the schedule, or because the information requir ed is included
in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements and accompanying notes included in this F orm 10-K.
(3)Exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K 
Incorporated by Reference
Exhibit
Number Exhibit Description Form ExhibitFiling
Date/
Period End
Date
3.1 Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Registrant ﬁled on August 3,
2020.8-K 3.1 8/7/20
3.2 Amended and R estated Bylaws of the R egistrant eﬀective as of August
17, 2022.8-K 3.2 8/19/22
4.1** Description of Securities of the R egistrant.
4.2 Indentur e, dated as of April 29, 2013, between the Registrant and The
Bank of New Y ork Mellon T rust Company, N.A ., as T rustee.S-3 4.1 4/29/13
4.3 Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as of May 3, 2013,
including forms of global notes representing the Floating Rate Notes
due 2016, Floating Rate Notes due 2018 , 0.45% Notes due 2016,
1.00% Notes due 2018, 2.40% Notes due 2023 and 3.85% Notes due
2043.8-K 4.1 5/3/13
4.4 Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as of May 6, 2014,
including forms of global notes representing the Floating Rate Notes
due 2017, Floating Rate Notes due 2019 , 1.05% Notes due 2017,
2.10% Notes due 2019, 2.85% Notes due 2021, 3.45% Notes due
2024 and 4.45% Notes due 2044.8-K 4.1 5/6/14
4.5 Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as of November 10, 2014,
including forms of global notes representing the 1.000% Notes due
2022 and 1.625% Notes due 2026.8-K 4.1 11/10/14
4.6 Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as of February 9, 2015,
including forms of global notes representing the Floating Rate Notes
due 2020, 1.55% Notes due 2020, 2.15% Notes due 2022, 2.50%
Notes due 2025 and 3.45% Notes due 2045.8-K 4.1 2/9/15
4.7 Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as of May 13, 2015,
including forms of global notes representing the Floating Rate Notes
due 2017, Floating Rate Notes due 2020, 0.900% Notes due 2017,
2.000% Notes due 2020, 2.700% Notes due 2022, 3.200% Notes due
2025, and 4.375% Notes due 2045.8-K 4.1 5/13/15
4.8 Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as of July 31, 2015,
including forms of global notes representing the 3.05% Notes due
2029 and 3.60% Notes due 2042.8-K 4.1 7/31/15
4.9 Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as of September 17, 2015,
including forms of global notes representing the 1.375% Notes due
2024 and 2.000% Notes due 2027.8-K 4.1 9/17/15(1)
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 54
Incorporated by Reference
Exhibit
Number Exhibit Description Form ExhibitFiling
Date/
Period End
Date
4.10 Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as of February 23, 2016,
including forms of global notes representing the Floating Rate Notes
due 2019, Floating Rate Notes due 2021, 1.300% Notes due 2018,
1.700% Notes due 2019, 2.250% Notes due 2021, 2.850% Notes due
2023, 3.250% Notes due 2026, 4.500% Notes due 2036 and 4.650%
Notes due 2046.8-K 4.1 2/23/16
4.11 Supplement No. 1 to the Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as
of Mar ch 24, 2016.8-K 4.1 3/24/16
4.12 Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as of August 4, 2016,
including forms of global notes representing the Floating Rate Notes
due 2019, 1.100% Notes due 2019, 1.550% Notes due 2021, 2.450%
Notes due 2026 and 3.850% Notes due 2046.8-K 4.1 8/4/16
4.13 Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as of February 9, 2017,
including forms of global notes representing the Floating Rate Notes
due 2019, Floating Rate Notes due 2020 , Floating Rate Notes due
2022, 1.550% Notes  due 2019, 1.900% Notes due 2020, 2.500%
Notes due 2022, 3.000% Notes due 2024, 3.350% Notes due 2027
and 4.250% Notes due 2047.8-K 4.1 2/9/17
4.14 Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as of May 11, 2017,
including forms of global notes representing the Floating Rate Notes
due 2020, Floating Rate Notes due 2022, 1.800% Notes due 2020,
2.300% Notes due 2022, 2.850% Notes due 2024 and 3.200% Notes
due 2027.8-K 4.1 5/11/17
4.15 Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as of May 24, 2017,
including forms of global notes representing the 0.875% Notes due
2025 and 1.375% Notes due 2029.8-K 4.1 5/24/17
4.16 Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as of June 20, 2017,
including form of global note representing the 3.000% Notes due
2027.8-K 4.1 6/20/17
4.17 Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as of August 18, 2017,
including form of global note representing the 2.513% Notes due
2024.8-K 4.1 8/18/17
4.18 Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as of September 12, 2017,
including forms of global notes representing the 1.500% Notes due
2019, 2.100% Notes due 2022, 2.900% Notes due 2027 and 3.750%
Notes due 2047.8-K 4.1 9/12/17
4.19 Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as of November 13, 2017,
including forms of global notes representing the 1.800% Notes due
2019, 2.000% Notes  due 2020, 2.400% Notes due 2023, 2.750%
Notes due 2025, 3.000% Notes due 2027 and 3.750% Notes due
2047.8-K 4.1 11/13/17
4.20 Indentur e, dated as of November 5, 2018, between the Registrant and
The Bank of New Y ork Mellon T rust Company, N.A ., as T rustee.S-3 4.1 11/5/18
4.21 Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as of September 11, 2019,
including forms of global notes representing the 1.700% Notes due
2022, 1.800% Notes  due 2024, 2.050% Notes due 2026, 2.200%
Notes due 2029 and 2.950% Notes due 2049.8-K 4.1 9/11/19
4.22 Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as of November 15, 2019,
including forms of global notes representing the 0.000% Notes due
2025 and 0.500% Notes due 2031.8-K 4.1 11/15/19
4.23 Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as of May 11, 2020,
including forms of global notes representing the 0.750% Notes due
2023, 1.125% Notes due 2025, 1.650% Notes due 2030 and 2.650%
Notes due 2050.8-K 4.1 5/11/20
4.24 Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as of August 20, 2020,
including forms of global notes representing the 0.550% Notes due
2025, 1.25% Notes due 2030, 2.400% Notes due 2050 and 2.550%
Notes due 2060.8-K 4.1 8/20/20
4.25 Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as of February 8, 2021,
including forms of global notes representing the 0.700% Notes due
2026, 1.200% Notes  due 2028,  1.650% Notes due 2031,  2.375%
Notes due 2041, 2.650% Notes due 2051 and 2.800% Notes due
2061.8-K 4.1 2/8/21
4.26 Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as of August 5, 2021,
including forms of global notes representing the 1.400% Notes due
2028, 1.700% Notes due 2031, 2.700% Notes due 2051 and 2.850%
Notes due 2061.8-K 4.1 8/5/21
4.27 Indentur e, dated as of October 28, 2021, between the Registrant and
The Bank of New Y ork Mellon T rust Company, N.A ., as T rustee.S-3 4.1 10/29/21
4.28 Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as of August 8, 2022,
including forms of global notes representing the 3.250% Notes due
2029, 3.350% Notes due 2032, 3.950% Notes due 2052 and 4.100%
Notes due 2062.8-K 4.1 8/8/22
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 55
Incorporated by Reference
Exhibit
Number Exhibit Description Form ExhibitFiling
Date/
Period End
Date
4.29 Oﬃcer’s Certiﬁcate of the Registrant, dated as of May 10, 2023,
including forms of global notes represent ing the 4.421% Notes due
2026, 4.000% Notes due 2028, 4.150% Notes due 2030, 4.300%
Notes due 2033 and 4.850% Notes due 2053.8-K 4.1 5/10/23
4.30* Apple Inc. Defer red Compensation Plan. S-8 4.1 8/23/18
10.1* Apple Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated as
of Mar ch 10, 2015.8-K 10.1 3/13/15
10.2* Form of Indemniﬁcation Agreement between the Registrant and each
director and e xecutive oﬃcer of the R egistrant.10-Q 10.2 6/27/09
10.3* Apple Inc. Non-Employee Director Stock Plan, as amended November 9,
2021.10-Q 10.1 12/25/21
10.4* Apple Inc. 2014 Employee Stock Plan, as amended and restated as of
October 1, 2017.10-K 10.8 9/30/17
10.5* Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under 2014 Employee
Stock Plan eﬀective as of September 26, 2017.10-K 10.20 9/30/17
10.6* Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under Non-Employee
Director Stock Plan eﬀective as of F ebruary 13, 2018.10-Q 10.2 3/31/18
10.7* Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under 2014 Employee
Stock Plan eﬀective as of August 21, 2018.10-K 10.17 9/29/18
10.8* Form of Performance Award Agreement under 2014 Employee Stock
Plan eﬀective as of August 21, 2018.10-K 10.18 9/29/18
10.9* Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under 2014 Employee
Stock Plan eﬀective as of September 29, 2019.10-K 10.15 9/28/19
10.10* Form of Performance Award Agreement under 2014 Employee Stock
Plan eﬀective as of September 29, 2019.10-K 10.16 9/28/19
10.11* Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under 2014 Employee
Stock Plan eﬀective as of August 18, 2020.10-K 10.16 9/26/20
10.12* Form of Performance Award Agreement under 2014 Employee Stock
Plan eﬀective as of August 18, 2020.10-K 10.17 9/26/20
10.13* Form of CEO Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under 2014
Employee Stock Plan eﬀective as of September 27, 2020.10-Q 10.1 12/26/20
10.14* Form of CEO Performance Award Agreement under 2014 Employee
Stock Plan eﬀective as of September 27, 2020.10-Q 10.2 12/26/20
10.15* Apple Inc. 2022 Employee Stock Plan. 8-K 10.1 3/4/22
10.16* Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under 2022 Employee
Stock Plan eﬀective as of Mar ch 4, 2022.8-K 10.2 3/4/22
10.17* Form of Performance Award Agreement under 2022 Employee Stock
Plan eﬀective as of Mar ch 4, 2022.8-K 10.3 3/4/22
10.18* Apple Inc. Ex ecutive Cash Incentive Plan. 8-K 10.1 8/19/22
10.19* Form of CEO Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under 2022
Employee Stock Plan eﬀective as of September 25, 2022.10-Q 10.1 12/31/22
10.20* Form of CEO Performance Award Agreement under 2022 Employee
Stock Plan eﬀective as of September 25, 2022.10-Q 10.2 12/31/22
21.1** Subsidiaries of the R egistrant.
23.1** Consent of Independent R egister ed Public A ccounting F irm.
24.1** Power of Attorney (included on the Signatur es page of this Annual
Report on F orm 10-K).
31.1** Rule 13a-14(a) / 15d-14(a) Certiﬁcation of Chief Ex ecutive Oﬃcer .
31.2** Rule 13a-14(a) / 15d-14(a) Certiﬁcation of Chief F inancial Oﬃcer .
32.1*** Section 1350 Certiﬁcations of Chief Executive Oﬃcer and Chief
Financial Oﬃcer .
101** Inline XBRL  Document Set for the consolidated ﬁnancial statements and
accompanying notes  in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data” of this Annual R eport on F orm 10-K.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 56
Incorporated by Reference
Exhibit
Number Exhibit Description Form ExhibitFiling
Date/
Period End
Date
104** Inline XBRL for the cover page of this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
included in the Exhibit 101 Inline XBRL Document Set.
*Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
**Filed herewith.
***Furnished herewith.
(1)Certain instruments deﬁning the rights of holders of long-term debt securities of the Registrant are omitted
pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K. The Registrant hereby undertakes to furnish to the SEC, upon
request, copies of any such instruments.
Item 16.    F orm 10-K Summary
None.
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 57
SIGNA TURES
Pursuant to the requir ements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
caused this r eport to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, ther eunto duly authorized.
Date: November 2, 2023 Apple Inc.
By: /s/ Luca Maestri
Luca Maestri
Senior V ice President,
Chief F inancial Oﬃcer
Power of Attorney
KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENT S, that each person whose signatur e appears below constitutes and
appoints Timothy D. Cook and Luca Maestri, jointly and severally, his or her attor neys-in-fact, each with the power of
substitution, for him or her in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
and to ﬁle the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and
Exchange Commissio n, hereby ratifying and conﬁr ming all that each of said attor neys-in-fact, or his substitute or
substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue her eof.
Pursuant to the requir ements of the Secu rities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the R egistrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:
Name Title Date
/s/ Timothy D. CookChief Ex ecutive Oﬃcer and Dir ector
(Principal Ex ecutive Oﬃcer)November 2,
2023
TIMOTHY D. COOK
/s/ Luca MaestriSenior V ice President, Chief F inancial Oﬃcer
(Principal F inancial Oﬃcer)November 2,
2023
LUCA MAESTRI
/s/ Chris K ondoSenior Dir ector of Corporate A ccounting
(Principal A ccounting Oﬃcer)November 2,
2023
CHRIS K ONDO
/s/ James A . Bell DirectorNovember 2,
2023
JAMES A . BELL
/s/ Al Gor e DirectorNovember 2,
2023
AL GORE
/s/ Ale x Gorsk y DirectorNovember 2,
2023
ALEX GORSK Y
/s/ Andr ea Jung DirectorNovember 2,
2023
ANDREA JUNG
/s/ Arthur D. L evinson Director and Chair of the Boar dNovember 2,
2023
ARTHUR D. LEVINSON
/s/ Monica L ozano DirectorNovember 2,
2023
MONICA L OZANO
/s/ Ronald D. Sugar DirectorNovember 2,
2023
RONALD D. SUGAR
/s/ Susan L. W agner DirectorNovember 2,
2023
SUSAN L. W AGNER
Apple Inc. | 2023 Form 10-K | 58
