UNITED ST ATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
☒ ANNUAL  REPOR T PURSUANT  TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021
or
☐ TRANSITION REPOR T PURSUANT  TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from                          to                         
Commission file number 1-442
THE BOEING COMP ANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware  91-0425694
(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)  (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
100 N. Riverside Plaza,Chicago, IL  60606-1596
(Address of principal executive offices)  (Zip Code)
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code (312)-544-2000
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Common Stock, $5.00 Par V alue BA New York Stock Exchange
(Title of each class) (Trading Symbol) (Name of each exchange on which registered)
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ☒ No ☐
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ☐  No ☒
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes ☒ No ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405
of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit
such files). Yes ☒ No ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, smaller reporting company, or
an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth
company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large Accelerated Filer ☒ Accelerated filer ☐
Non-accelerated filer ☐ Smaller reporting company ☐
Emerging growth company ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal
control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that
prepared or issued its audit report. ☒
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any
new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ☐ No ☒
As of June 30, 2021, there were 585,875,929 common shares outstanding held by nonaffiliates of the registrant, and the aggregate market value of
the common shares (based upon the closing price of these shares on the New York Stock Exchange) was approximately $140.4 billion.
The number of shares of the registrant’s common stock outstanding as of January 24, 2022 was 582,999,765.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Part III incorporates information by reference to the registrant’s definitive proxy statement, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021.
Table of Contents
THE BOEING COMPANY
Index to the Form 10-K
For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2021
PART I   Page
Item  1. Business 1
Item  1A.Risk Factors 7
Item  1B.Unresolved Staff Comments 20
Item  2. Properties 21
Item  3. Legal Proceedings 21
Item  4. Mine Safety Disclosures 21
PART II
Item  5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities 22
Item  6. [Reserved] 22
Item  7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations 23
Item  7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 56
Item  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 57
Item  9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure 132
Item  9A.Controls and Procedures 132
Item  9B.Other Information 132
PART III
Item  10.Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 133
Item  11.Executive Compensation 136
Item  12.Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters 137
Item  13.Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 137
Item  14.Principal Accountant Fees and Services 138
PART IV
Item  15.Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 138
Item  16.Form 10-K Summary 141
Signatures 142
Table of Contents
PART I
Item 1. Business
The Boeing Company, together with its subsidiaries (herein referred to as “Boeing,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” “our”), is
one of the world’s major aerospace firms.
We are organized based on the products and services we offer. We operate in four reportable segments:
•Commercial Airplanes (BCA);
•Defense, Space & Security (BDS);
•Global Services (BGS);
•Boeing Capital (BCC).
Commercial Airplanes Segment
This segment develops, produces and markets commercial jet aircraft and provides fleet support services, principally to
the commercial airline industry worldwide. We are a leading producer of commercial aircraft and offer a family of
commercial jetliners designed to meet a broad spectrum of global passenger and cargo requirements of airlines. This
family of commercial jet aircraft in production includes the 737 narrow-body model and the 747, 767, 777 and 787 wide-
body models. Development continues on the 777X program and certain 737 MAX derivatives.
Defense, Space & Security Segment
This segment engages in the research, development, production and modification of manned and unmanned military
aircraft and weapons systems for strike, surveillance and mobility, including fighter and trainer aircraft; vertical lift,
including rotorcraft and tilt-rotor aircraft; and commercial derivative aircraft, including anti-submarine and tanker aircraft.
In addition, this segment engages in the research, development, production and modification of the following products
and related services: strategic defense and intelligence systems, including strategic missile and defense systems,
command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (C4ISR), cyber and
information solutions, and intelligence systems, satellite systems, including government and commercial satellites and
space exploration.
BDS' primary customer is the United States Department of Defense (U.S. DoD). Revenues from the U.S. DoD,
including foreign military sales through the U.S. government, accounted for approximately 84% of its 2021 revenues.
Other significant BDS customers include the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and customers in
international defense, civil and commercial satellite markets.
This segment's primary products include the following fixed-wing military aircraft: F/A-18E/F Super Hornet, F-15
programs, P-8 programs, KC-46A Tanker and T-7A Red Hawk. This segment produces rotorcraft and rotary-wing
programs, such as CH-47 Chinook, AH-64 Apache and V-22 Osprey. Unmanned vehicles include the MQ-25, QF-16
and Insitu’s Scan Eagle aircraft. In addition, this segment's products include space and missile systems including:
government and commercial satellites, NASA’s Space Launch System (SLS), the International Space Station,
Commercial Crew, missile defense and weapons programs and Joint Direct Attack Munition, as well as the United
Launch Alliance joint venture.
1
Table of Contents
Global Services Segment
This segment provides services to our commercial and defense customers worldwide. BGS sustains aerospace
platforms and systems with a full spectrum of products and services, including supply chain and logistics management,
engineering, maintenance and modifications, upgrades and conversions, spare parts, pilot and maintenance training
systems and services, technical and maintenance documents, and data analytics and digital services.
Boeing Capital Segment
BCC seeks to ensure that Boeing customers have the financing they need to buy and take delivery of their Boeing
product, while managing overall financing exposure. BCC’s portfolio consists of equipment under operating leases,
sales-type/finance leases, notes and other receivables, assets held for sale or re-lease and investments.
Intellectual Property
We own numerous patents and have licenses for the use of patents owned by others, which relate to our products and
their manufacture. In addition to owning a large portfolio of intellectual property, we also license intellectual property to
and from third parties. For example, the U.S. government has licenses in our patents that are developed in
performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by such
patents for government purposes. Unpatented research, development and engineering skills, as well as certain
trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights, also make an important contribution to our business.
While our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to the operation of each of our businesses, we do
not believe that our business would be materially affected by the expiration of any particular intellectual property right or
termination of any particular intellectual property patent license agreement.
Human Capital
The COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact lives and businesses around the world. We have taken proactive steps to
help protect the health and safety of our employees and maintain business continuity. As COVID-19 vaccines became
available, we strongly encouraged employees to get vaccinated when eligible, followed federal and state government
vaccination requirements, provided resources and support to help employees get vaccinated, offered paid time off for
primary and booster vaccinations, and supported vaccination clinics for our employees and their families. We provided
access to virtual primary care physicians at no cost. We expanded our virtual work options and many of our office
workers continue to telecommute. We have maintained safety protocols at our sites, including face coverings, physical
distance requirements and enhanced cleaning requirements. We continue to encourage daily self-health checks and
operate our coronavirus hotline, which enables employees to report exposure to COVID-19 and positive COVID-19 test
results directly to our Health Services group. As part of that reporting process, we have a robust contact tracing
program to identify those who have been in close contact in the workplace with employees who have tested positive for
COVID-19. All of the actions above are overseen by Boeing’s Crisis Management Working Group, a multi-functional,
multi-discipline team tasked with integrating all aspects of Boeing’s COVID-19 response.
As of December 31, 2021, Boeing’s total workforce was approximately 142,000, with 12% located outside of the U.S.
2
Table of Contents
As of December 31, 2021, our workforce is composed of approximately 47,000 union members. Our principal collective
bargaining agreements were with the following unions:
UnionPercent of our
Employees
Represented Status of the Agreements with Major Union
The International Association of Machinists
and Aerospace Workers (IAM)20% We have two major agreements; one expiring in July
2022 and one in September 2024.
The Society of Professional Engineering
Employees in Aerospace (SPEEA)10% We have two major agreements expiring in October
2026.
The United Automobile, Aerospace and
Agricultural Implement Workers of America
(UAW)1% We have one major agreement expiring in October
2022.
We aspire to be the most equitable, diverse and inclusive company. Guided by our values, we are committed to
creating a company where everyone is included and respected, and where we support each other in reaching our full
potential. We are committed to diverse representation across all levels of our workforce to reflect the vibrant and
thriving diversity of the communities in which we live and work. In June of 2021, we released our first Global Equity,
Diversity and Inclusion report with our workforce composition. As of December 2020, our U.S. workforce was
comprised of approximately 23% women, 31% racial and ethnic minorities and 15% veterans. We also support
Business Resource Groups open to all employees with more than 13,000 participants across 150 chapters globally that
focus on gender, race & ethnicity, generations, gender identity, sexual orientation, disability or veteran status. These
groups help foster inclusion among all teammates, build awareness, recruit and retain a diverse workforce and support
the company in successfully operating in a global, multicultural business environment. We are committed to releasing a
Global Equity, Diversity and Inclusion report in 2022 which will be updated with 2021 information. Our 2021 report can
be found on our website.
To attract and retain the best-qualified talent, we offer competitive benefits, including market-competitive compensation,
healthcare, paid time off, parental leave, retirement benefits, tuition assistance, employee skills development,
leadership development and rotation programs. In 2021, our voluntary resignation rate was approximately 4%.
Additionally, we hired approximately 9,800 new employees in 2021 for critical skills and had an offer acceptance rate of
83%.
Employees are encouraged to provide feedback about their experience through ongoing employee engagement
activities. Boeing actively listens to its employees via surveys ranging from pre-hire to exiting the company. These
voluntary surveys provide aggregate trend reports for the company to address in real time and ensure Boeing
maintains an employee-focused experience and culture. We also invest in rewarding performance and have
established a multi-level recognition program for the purpose of acknowledging the achievements of excellent individual
or team performance.
We are committed to supporting our employees’ continuous development of professional, technical and leadership
skills through access to digital learning resources and through partnerships with leading professional/technical societies
and organizations around the world. For 2021, Boeing employees consumed approximately 3.6 million hours of
learning. We offer the ability for our people to pursue degree programs, professional certificates and individual courses
in strategic fields of study from more than 300 accredited colleges and universities, online and across the globe through
our tuition assistance program. Over 10,000 Boeing employees leverage these programs every year.
3
Table of Contents
Safety, quality, integrity and sustainability are at the core of how Boeing operates. We aspire to achieve zero workplace
injuries and provide a safe, open and accountable work environment for our employees. We provide several channels
for all employees to speak up, ask for guidance and report concerns related to ethics or safety violations. We address
employee concerns and take appropriate actions that uphold our Boeing values.
Competition
The commercial jet aircraft market and the airline industry remain extremely competitive. We face aggressive
international competitors who are intent on increasing their market share, such as Airbus and other entrants from
Russia, China and Japan. We are focused on improving our processes and continuing cost reduction efforts. We intend
to continue to compete with other airplane manufacturers by providing customers with higher quality products.
BDS faces strong competition in all market segments, primarily from Lockheed Martin Corporation, Northrop Grumman
Corporation, Raytheon Technologies Corporation, General Dynamics Corporation and SpaceX. Non-U.S. companies
such as BAE Systems and Airbus Group continue to build a strategic presence in the U.S. market by strengthening
their North American operations and partnering with U.S. defense companies. In addition, certain competitors have
occasionally formed teams with other competitors to address specific customer requirements. BDS expects the trend of
strong competition to continue into 2022.
The commercial and defense services markets are extremely challenging and are made up of many of the same strong
U.S. and non-U.S. competitors facing BCA and BDS along with other competitors in those markets. BGS leverages our
extensive services network offering products and services which span the life cycle of our defense and commercial
airplane programs: training, fleet services and logistics, maintenance and engineering, modifications and upgrades, as
well as the daily cycle of gate-to-gate operations. BGS expects the market to remain highly competitive in 2022, and
intends to grow market share by leveraging a high level of customer satisfaction and productivity.
Regulatory Matters
Our businesses are heavily regulated in most of our markets. We work with numerous U.S. government agencies and
entities, including but not limited to, all of the branches of the U.S. military, NASA, the Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA) and the Department of Homeland Security. Similar government authorities exist in our non-U.S. markets.
Government Contracts. The U.S. government, and other governments, may terminate any of our government contracts
at their convenience, as well as for default based on our failure to meet specified performance requirements. If any of
our U.S. government contracts were to be terminated for convenience, we generally would be entitled to receive
payment for work completed and allowable termination or cancellation costs. If any of our government contracts were to
be terminated for default, generally the U.S. government would pay only for the work that has been accepted and could
require us to pay the difference between the original contract price and the cost to re-procure the contract items, net of
the work accepted from the original contract. The U.S. government can also hold us liable for damages resulting from
the default.
Commercial Aircraft. In the U.S., our commercial aircraft products are required to comply with FAA regulations
governing production and quality systems, airworthiness and installation approvals, repair procedures and continuing
operational safety. New aircraft models and new derivative aircraft are required to obtain FAA certification prior to entry
into service. Outside the U.S., similar requirements exist for airworthiness, installation and operational approvals.
These requirements are generally
4
Table of Contents
administered by the national aviation authorities of each country and, in the case of Europe, coordinated by the
European Union Aviation Safety Agency.
Environmental. We are subject to various federal, state, local and non-U.S. laws and regulations relating to
environmental protection, including the discharge, treatment, storage, disposal and remediation of hazardous
substances and wastes. We could also be affected by future laws and regulations relating to climate change, including
laws related to greenhouse gas emissions. These laws and regulations could lead to increased environmental
compliance expenditures, increased energy and raw materials costs and new and/or additional investment in designs
and technologies. We continually assess our compliance status and management of environmental matters to ensure
our operations are in compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations. Investigation, remediation and
operation and maintenance costs associated with environmental compliance and management of sites are a normal,
recurring part of our operations. These costs often are allowable costs under our contracts with the U.S. government. It
is reasonably possible that costs incurred to ensure continued environmental compliance could have a material impact
on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows if additional work requirements or more stringent clean-up
standards are imposed by regulators, new areas of soil, air and groundwater contamination are discovered and/or
expansions of work scope are prompted by the results of investigations.
A Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) has joint and several liability under existing U.S. environmental laws. Where we
have been designated a PRP by the Environmental Protection Agency or a state environmental agency, we are
potentially liable to the government or third parties for the full cost of remediating contamination at our facilities, former
facilities or third-party sites. If we were required to fully fund the remediation of a site for which we were originally
assigned a partial share, the statutory framework would allow us to pursue rights to contribution from other PRPs. For
additional information relating to environmental contingencies, see Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Non-U.S. Sales. Our non-U.S. sales are subject to both U.S. and non-U.S. governmental regulations and procurement
policies and practices, including regulations relating to import-export control, tariffs, investment, exchange controls,
anti-corruption and repatriation of earnings. Non-U.S. sales are also subject to varying currency, political and economic
risks.
Raw Materials, Parts and Subassemblies
We are highly dependent on the availability of essential materials, parts and subassemblies from our suppliers and
subcontractors. The most important raw materials required for our aerospace products are aluminum (sheet, plate,
forgings and extrusions), titanium (sheet, plate, forgings and extrusions) and composites (including carbon and boron).
Although alternative sources generally exist for these raw materials, qualification of the sources could take a year or
more. Many major components and product equipment items are procured or subcontracted on a sole-source basis.
Suppliers
We are dependent upon the ability of a large number of U.S. and non-U.S. suppliers and subcontractors to meet
performance specifications, quality standards and delivery schedules at our anticipated costs. While we maintain an
extensive qualification and performance surveillance system to control risk associated with such reliance on third
parties, failure of suppliers or subcontractors to meet commitments could adversely affect production schedules and
program/contract profitability, thereby jeopardizing our ability to fulfill commitments to our customers. We are also
dependent on the availability of energy sources, such as electricity, at affordable prices.
5
Table of Contents
Seasonality
No material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal.
Executive Officers of the Registrant
See “Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance” in Part III.
Other Information
Boeing was originally incorporated in the State of Washington in 1916 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1934. Our
principal executive offices are located at 100 N. Riverside Plaza, Chicago, Illinois 60606, and our telephone number is
(312) 544-2000.
General information about us can be found at www.boeing.com. The information contained on or connected to our
website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this
or any other report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our Annual Report on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, are
available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with, or furnish them
to, the SEC. The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other
information regarding SEC registrants, including Boeing.
Forward-Looking Statements
This report, as well as our annual report to shareholders, quarterly reports and other filings we make with the SEC,
press and earnings releases and other written and oral communications, contain “forward-looking statements” within
the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as “may,” “should,” “expects,”
“intends,” “projects,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” “targets,” “anticipates” and similar expressions generally identify
these forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements relating to our future
financial condition and operating results, as well as any other statement that does not directly relate to any historical or
current fact.
Forward-looking statements are based on expectations and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable when made,
but that may not prove to be accurate. These statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties and
changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Many factors, including those set forth in the “Risk Factors”
section below and other important factors disclosed in this report and from time to time in our other filings with the SEC,
could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking
statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and we assume no obligation to update or revise any
forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by
law.
6
Table of Contents
Item 1A. Risk Factors
An investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties and our actual results and future
trends may differ materially from our past or projected future performance. We urge investors to consider carefully the
risk factors described below in evaluating the information contained in this report.
Risks Related to COVID-19
We face significant risks related to the spread of the COVID-19 virus and developments surrounding the global
pandemic have had, and will continue to have, significant effects on our business, financial condition, results
of operations and cash flows. We also face significant risks related to the global economic downturn and
severe reduction in commercial air traffic caused by the pandemic. These risks include materially reduced
demand for our products and services, increased instability in our operations and in our supply chain and
challenges to the ongoing viability of some of our customers. In addition, future vaccination mandates or other
government requirements may further disrupt our operations and those of our customers and suppliers. We
may face similar risks in connection with any future public health crises, including resurgences in the spread
of COVID-19.
The COVID-19 pandemic has subjected our business, operations, financial performance, cash flows and financial
condition to a number of risks, including, but not limited to those discussed below.
Operations-related risks: As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we are facing increased operational challenges from
the need to protect employee health and safety. These challenges have included, and may in the future include,
production site shutdowns, workplace disruptions and restrictions on the movement of people, social distancing
guidelines, increased employee absenteeism due to illness and/or quarantine/contact tracing requirements, as well as
reduced availability of raw materials and goods, both at our own facilities and those of our customers and suppliers.
During the second quarter of 2020, we temporarily suspended operations in Puget Sound, South Carolina, and
Philadelphia, as well as at several other key production sites. We had not previously experienced a complete
suspension of our operations at these production sites. While we have resumed operations at all of our production
sites, we cannot predict whether or where further production disruptions could be required or what the ongoing impact
of COVID-19-related operating restrictions will be. For example, we continue to experience near-term production
disruptions and inefficiencies as well as additional operating costs due to social distancing requirements, increased
levels of employee absenteeism and other factors related to COVID-19 restrictions. We cannot predict the impact that
future production disruptions may have on our business, operations, financial performance and financial condition. We
continue to monitor federal, state and municipal health authorities for new or modified guidance and requirements
concerning the COVID-19 pandemic, and we may be required to impose additional operational restrictions and/or
suspend operations at key production sites based on these requirements and recommendations and/or workplace
disruptions caused by COVID-19. If future vaccination mandates or other similar governmental requirements take
effect, or if COVID-19 case rates worsen at one or more of our production facilities, we may face further increases in
employee absenteeism and/or attrition, any of which could cause operational disruptions and otherwise have an
adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
Many of our suppliers also were required to suspend operations during the second quarter of 2020. In 2021, we
experienced part shortages which disrupted our operations and delayed deliveries. We may experience additional
disruptions and/or part shortages in 2022. Any such disruptions could have severe adverse impacts on our production
costs, delivery schedule and/or ability to meet customer commitments.
7
Table of Contents
Further production disruptions and inefficiencies, suspension of operations or delayed recovery in our operations,
and/or any comparable impacts involving one or more of our key suppliers, or the failure of any of our key suppliers,
would result in further challenges to our business, which could have a further material adverse effect on our business,
financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows.
Liquidity risks: The COVID-19 pandemic has also had a significant impact on our liquidity and overall debt levels.
During the year ended December 31, 2021, net cash used by operating activities was $3.4 billion. At December 31,
2021, cash and short-term investments totaled $16.2 billion. Our debt balance totaled $58.1 billion at December 31,
2021, down from $63.6 billion at December 31, 2020. We expect negative operating cash flows in future quarters until
deliveries begin to return to historical levels, and if the pace and scope of the recovery are worse than we currently
contemplate, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to fund our operations and obligations. If we were to
need to obtain additional financing, uncertainty related to COVID-19 and its impact on us and the aerospace industry,
as well as continued uncertainty with respect to our credit rating could limit our access to credit markets and we may
have difficulty obtaining financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, certain of our customers may also be
unable to make timely payments to us. Factors that could limit our access to additional liquidity include further
disruptions in the global capital markets and/or additional declines in our financial performance, outlook or credit
ratings. The occurrence of any or all of these events could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations and/or
meet outstanding debt obligations and contractual commitments. In addition, further downgrades in our credit ratings
could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital
markets, and a significant downgrade could have an adverse impact on our businesses.
Customer-related risks: Commercial air traffic has fallen dramatically due to the COVID-19 pandemic. This trend has
impacted passenger traffic most severely. Most airlines have significantly reduced their capacity, and many could
implement further reductions. Many airlines are also implementing significant reductions in staffing. These capacity
changes are causing, and are expected to continue to cause, negative impacts to our customers’ revenue, earnings,
and cash flow, and in some cases may threaten the future viability of some of our customers, potentially causing
defaults within our customer financing portfolio, which was $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2021 and/or requiring us to
remarket aircraft that have already been produced and/or are currently in backlog. If we are unable to successfully
remarket these aircraft and/or the narrow-body and wide-body markets do not recover as soon as we are currently
assuming, or if we are required to further reduce production rates and/or contract the accounting quantity on any of our
commercial programs, we could experience material reductions in earnings and/or be required to recognize a reach-
forward loss on one or more of our programs. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2020, we recognized a reach-
forward loss on the 777X program in part due to impacts related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, we may
experience fewer new orders and increased cancellations across all of our commercial airplane programs as a result of
the COVID-19 pandemic and associated impacts on demand. Our customers may also lack sufficient liquidity to
purchase new aircraft due to impacts from the pandemic.
In addition to the near-term impact, there is risk that the industry implements longer-term strategies involving reduced
capacity, shifting route patterns and mitigation strategies related to impacts from COVID-19 and the risk of future public
health crises. In addition, airlines may experience reduced demand due to reluctance by the flying public to travel as a
result of travel restrictions and/or social distancing requirements.
As a result, there is significant uncertainty with respect to whether and at what point commercial air traffic capacity will
return to and/or exceed pre-COVID-19 levels. This uncertainty may have a significant impact on the demand for both
single-aisle and wide-body commercial aircraft, as well as for the services we provide to commercial airlines. In
addition, a lengthy period of reduced industry-wide demand for commercial aircraft would put additional pressure on our
suppliers, resulting in increased procurement costs and/or additional supply chain disruption. To the extent that the
COVID-19 pandemic
8
Table of Contents
or its aftermath further impacts demand for our products and services or impairs the viability of some of our customers
and/or suppliers, our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows could be adversely affected, and those
impacts could be material.
Other risks: The magnitude and duration of the global COVID-19 pandemic is uncertain and continues to adversely
affect our business and operating and financial results. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2020, due in part to
the prolonged adverse impact of the pandemic on our earnings, we recorded an increase of $2.5 billion to the valuation
allowance associated with deferred income tax assets. The pandemic also is expected to heighten many of the other
risks described below. For example, the COVID-19 pandemic could cause and continue to cause an increasingly
competitive labor market due to a sustained labor shortage or increased turnover rates within our employee base.
Further, the COVID-19 pandemic may also affect our operating and financial results in a manner that is not presently
known to us or that we currently do not expect to present significant risks to our operations or financial results.
Risks Related to Our Business and Operations
We remain subject to a number of risks and uncertainties related to the 737 MAX. These risks include
uncertainties regarding the timing and conditions of remaining 737 MAX regulatory approvals, lower than
planned production rates and/or delivery rates, additional considerations to customers, increased supplier
costs and supply chain health, changes to the assumptions and estimates made in our financial statements
regarding the 737 program and potential outcomes of 737 MAX-related legal proceedings and government
investigations that remain outstanding.
On March 13, 2019, the FAA issued an order to suspend operations of all 737 MAX aircraft in the U.S. and by U.S.
aircraft operators following two fatal 737 MAX accidents. Non-U.S. civil aviation authorities issued directives to the
same effect. Deliveries of the 737 MAX were suspended until December 2020. The grounding reduced revenues,
operating margins and cash flows, and will continue to do so until production rates return to pre-grounding levels. While
we have received regulatory approval to return the 737 MAX to service in most jurisdictions, we continue to work with
certain non-U.S. civil aviation authorities to complete remaining steps toward certification and readiness for return to
service worldwide. Any delays in the completion of the certification activities and/or the ramp-up of deliveries or other
liabilities associated with the accidents or grounding could have a material adverse effect on our financial position,
results of operations and/or cash flows. In addition, multiple legal actions have been filed against us related to the 737
MAX. We also are fully cooperating with U.S. government investigations related to the accidents and the 737 MAX,
including an ongoing investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. We also remain subject to compliance
with a Deferred Prosecution Agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice relating to the Department of Justice’s
investigation into us regarding the evaluation of the 737 MAX airplane by the FAA. We expensed $744 million in the
fourth quarter of 2020 related to this agreement. Any further adverse impacts related to any such litigation or
investigations could have a further material impact on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows.
During 2019, we announced plans to reduce, and ultimately to suspend 737 production. Impacts related to our
suspension of 737 MAX production from 2019 to 2020 significantly increased costs to produce aircraft included in the
current accounting quantity and have resulted in reduced 737 program and overall BCA segment operating margins.
We have also made significant assumptions regarding estimated costs expected to be incurred in 2022 that should be
included in program inventory and those estimated costs that will be expensed when incurred as abnormal production
costs. If the completion of remaining certification activities and/or our ability to deliver 737 aircraft to customers is
impaired, we will incur significant additional costs and/or be required to delay the planned ramp-up of 737 production.
These delays would also result in significant additional disruption to the 737 production system and
9
Table of Contents
further delay efforts to restore and/or implement previously planned increases in the 737 production rate. Cash flows
continue to be negatively impacted by delayed payments from customers, higher costs and inventory levels, and
payments made to customers in connection with disruption to their operations. In addition, we have experienced claims
and assertions from customers in connection with the grounding and associated delivery delays, and recorded an
estimate of potential concessions and other considerations to customers for these disruptions. As of December 31,
2021, the remaining liability associated with these concessions and other considerations totaled $2.9 billion, of which
$0.7 billion remains subject to negotiation.
Any further delays in regulatory approval of the 737 MAX in one or more jurisdictions, further disruptions to suppliers
and/or the long-term health of the production system, supplier claims or assertions, or changes to estimated
concessions or other considerations we expect to provide to customers could have a material adverse effect on our
financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. In the event of unanticipated additional training requirements
in one or more jurisdictions, delays in regulatory approval and/or delays in our ability to resume deliveries to one or
more customers, we may be required to take actions with longer-term impact, such as further changes to our
production plans, employment reductions and/or the expenditure of significant resources to support our supply chain
and/or customers.
We have made significant estimates with respect to the 737 program regarding the number of units to be produced, the
period during which those units are likely to be produced, and the units’ expected sales prices, production costs,
program tooling and other non-recurring costs, and routine warranty costs. We have made assumptions regarding
outcomes of accident investigations and other government inquiries, timing of future 737 production rate increases,
timing and sequence of future deliveries, supply chain health as we implement our production plans, as well as
outcomes of negotiations with customers. Any changes in these estimates and/or assumptions with respect to the 737
program could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows.
In addition to the impact of COVID-19 described above, our Commercial Airplanes and Global Services
businesses depend heavily on commercial airlines, and are subject to unique risks.
Market conditions have a significant impact on demand for our commercial aircraft and related services. The
commercial aircraft market is predominantly driven by long-term trends in airline passenger and cargo traffic. The
principal factors underlying long-term traffic growth are sustained economic growth and political stability both in
developed and emerging markets. Demand for our commercial aircraft is further influenced by airline profitability,
availability of aircraft financing, world trade policies, government-to-government relations, technological advances, price
and other competitive factors, fuel prices, terrorism, epidemics and environmental regulations. Traditionally, the airline
industry has been cyclical and very competitive and has experienced significant profit swings and constant challenges
to be more cost competitive. Significant deterioration in the global economic environment, the airline industry generally
or the financial stability of one or more of our major customers could result in fewer new orders for aircraft or services,
or could cause customers to seek to postpone or cancel contractual orders and/or payments to us, which could result in
lower revenues, profitability and cash flows and a reduction in our contractual backlog. In addition, because our
commercial aircraft backlog consists of aircraft scheduled for delivery over a period of several years, any of these
macroeconomic, industry or customer impacts could unexpectedly affect deliveries over a long period.
We enter into firm fixed-price aircraft sales contracts with indexed price escalation clauses, which could subject us to
losses if we have cost overruns or if increases in our costs exceed the applicable escalation rate. Commercial aircraft
sales contracts are often entered into years before the aircraft are delivered. In order to help account for economic
fluctuations between the contract date and delivery date, aircraft pricing generally consists of a fixed amount as
modified by price escalation formulas
10
Table of Contents
derived from labor, commodity and other price indices. Our revenue estimates are based on current expectations with
respect to these escalation formulas, but the actual escalation amounts are outside of our control. Escalation factors
can fluctuate significantly from period to period. Changes in escalation amounts can significantly impact revenues and
operating margins in our Commercial Airplanes business.
We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of commercial airlines. We can make no
assurance that any customer will exercise purchase options, fulfill existing purchase commitments or purchase
additional products or services from us. In addition, fleet decisions, airline consolidations or financial challenges
involving any of our major commercial airline customers could significantly reduce our revenues and limit our
opportunity to generate profits from those customers.
Our Commercial Airplanes business depends on our ability to maintain a healthy production system, ensure
every airplane in our production system conforms to our exacting specification, achieve planned production
rate targets, successfully develop new aircraft or new derivative aircraft, and meet or exceed stringent
performance and reliability standards.
The commercial aircraft business is extremely complex, involving extensive coordination and integration with U.S and
non-U.S. suppliers, highly-skilled labor from thousands of employees and other partners, and stringent regulatory
requirements, including the risk of evolving standards for commercial aircraft certification, and performance and
reliability standards. The FAA has been working to implement safety reforms such as the implementation of the 2018
FAA Reauthorization Act and the 2020 Aircraft Certification, Safety and Accountability Act, among them changing the
process for certification of commercial aircraft. Comparable agencies that regulate similar matters in other countries
may adopt similar changes. To the extent the FAA or other similar regulatory agencies outside the U.S. implement more
stringent regulations, we may incur additional costs to achieve compliance. In addition, the introduction of new aircraft
programs and/or derivatives, such as the 777X, involves increased risks associated with meeting development, testing,
production and certification schedules. The 737 program experienced significant disruption due to the grounding of the
737 MAX and associated suspension of commercial operations of the 737 MAX aircraft by civil aviation authorities
around the globe. 737 MAX deliveries resumed in late 2020 and early 2021 upon approval of the FAA and other non-
U.S. civil aviation authorities. During 2020 and 2021, we experienced production quality issues, including in our supply
chain, which have contributed to lower 787 deliveries, including a pause in 787 deliveries since May 2021. During 2021,
this resulted in reprioritizing production resources to support inspections and rework. We continue to conduct
inspections and rework on undelivered 787 aircraft and engage in detailed discussions with the FAA regarding required
actions for resuming delivery. A number of our customers may have contractual remedies, including compensation for
late deliveries as well as rights to reject individual airplane deliveries if the actual delivery date is significantly later than
the contractual delivery date. The regulators will ultimately determine the timing and conditions for resuming 787
deliveries. Delays on the 737 MAX, 777X and 787 programs have resulted in, and may continue to result in, customers
having the right to terminate orders and/or substitute orders for other Boeing aircraft.
We must minimize disruption caused by production changes, achieve operational stability and implement productivity
improvements in order to meet customer demand and maintain our profitability. We have previously announced plans
to adjust production rates on several of our commercial aircraft programs. During 2021, we reprioritized production
resources to support inspections and rework on undelivered 787 aircraft. The 787 program is currently producing at
very low rates and expects that to continue until deliveries resume. We are also continuing to implement changes in the
production process designed to ensure that newly-built airplanes meet our specifications and do not require further
inspections and rework. In addition, we continue to seek opportunities to reduce the costs of building our aircraft,
including working with our suppliers to reduce supplier costs, identifying and implementing productivity improvements
and optimizing how we manage inventory. If production rate changes at any
11
Table of Contents
of our commercial aircraft assembly facilities are delayed or create significant disruption to our production system, or if
our suppliers cannot timely deliver components to us at the cost and rates necessary to achieve our targets, we may be
unable to meet delivery schedules and/or the financial performance of one or more of our programs may suffer.
Operational challenges impacting the production system for one or more of our commercial aircraft programs could
result in production delays and/or failure to meet customer demand for new aircraft, either of which would negatively
impact our revenues and operating margins. Our commercial aircraft production system is extremely complex.
Operational issues, including delays or defects in supplier components, failure to meet internal performance plans, or
delays or failures to achieve required regulatory approval, could result in significant out-of-sequence work and
increased production costs, as well as delayed deliveries to customers, impacts to aircraft performance and/or
increased warranty or fleet support costs. For example, in 2021, we performed additional inspections and associated
rework on 787 aircraft in inventory and continued discussions with the FAA regarding required actions to resume
deliveries, resulting in additional costs and further delays in aircraft deliveries to customers.
If our commercial airplanes fail to satisfy performance and reliability requirements, we could face additional costs
and/or lower revenues. Developing and manufacturing commercial aircraft that meet or exceed our performance and
reliability standards, as well as those of customers and regulatory agencies, can be costly and technologically
challenging. These challenges are particularly significant with newer aircraft programs. Any failure of any Boeing
aircraft to satisfy performance or reliability requirements could result in disruption to our operations, higher costs and/or
lower revenues.
Changes in levels of U.S. government defense spending or overall acquisition priorities could negatively
impact our financial position and results of operations.
We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the U.S. government, primarily from defense related programs with
the U.S. DoD. Levels of U.S. defense spending are very difficult to predict and may be impacted by numerous factors
such as the evolving nature of the national security threat environment, U.S. national security strategy, U.S. foreign
policy, the domestic political environment, macroeconomic conditions and the ability of the U.S. government to enact
relevant legislation such as authorization and appropriations bills.
The timeliness of FY22 and future appropriations for government departments and agencies remains a recurrent risk. A
lapse in appropriations for government departments or agencies would result in a full or partial government shutdown,
which could impact the Company’s operations. Alternatively, Congress may fund government departments and
agencies with one or more Continuing Resolutions; however, this would restrict the execution of certain program
activities and delay new programs or competitions. In addition, long-term uncertainty remains with respect to overall
levels of defense spending in FY22 and beyond, and it is likely that U.S. government discretionary spending, including
defense spending, will continue to be subject to pressure.
There continues to be uncertainty with respect to future acquisition priorities and program-level appropriations for the
U.S. DoD and other government agencies (including NASA), including changes to national security and defense
priorities, and tension between modernization investments, sustainment investments, and investments in new
technologies or emergent capabilities. Future investment priority changes or budget cuts, including changes associated
with the authorizations and appropriations process, could result in reductions, cancellations, and/or delays of existing
contracts or programs, or future program opportunities. Any of these impacts could have a material effect on the results
of the Company’s financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows.
In addition, as a result of the significant ongoing uncertainty with respect to both U.S. defense spending and the
evolving nature of the national security threat environment, we also expect the U.S. DoD to continue to emphasize
affordability, innovation, cybersecurity and delivery of technical data and
12
Table of Contents
software in its procurement processes. If we can no longer adjust successfully to these changing acquisition policies,
our revenues and market share could be impacted. Also, additional federal appropriations to cover the increased costs
of federal contractors’ compliance with evolving U.S. Government contractual requirements associated with COVID-19
mitigation are unlikely, reducing the U.S. Government’s buying power.
Our ability to deliver products and services that satisfy customer requirements is heavily dependent on the
performance and financial stability of our subcontractors and suppliers, as well as on the availability of raw
materials and other components.
We rely on other companies, including U.S. and non-U.S. subcontractors and suppliers, to provide and produce raw
materials, integrated components and sub-assemblies, and production commodities and to perform some of the
services that we provide to our customers. If one or more of our suppliers or subcontractors experiences financial
difficulties, delivery delays or other performance problems, we may be unable to meet commitments to our customers
or incur additional costs. In addition, if one or more of the raw materials on which we depend (such as aluminum,
titanium or composites) becomes unavailable to us or our suppliers, or is available only at very high prices, we may be
unable to deliver one or more of our products in a timely fashion or at budgeted costs. In some instances, we depend
upon a single source of supply. Any service disruption from one of these suppliers, either due to circumstances beyond
the supplier’s control, such as geopolitical developments, or as a result of performance problems or financial difficulties,
could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet commitments to our customers or increase our operating
costs.
Competition within our markets and with respect to the products we sell may reduce our future contracts and
sales.
The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and one or more of our competitors may have more extensive
or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. In our
Commercial Airplanes business, we anticipate increasing competition among non-U.S. aircraft manufacturers of
commercial jet aircraft. In our BDS business, we anticipate that the effects of defense industry consolidation, shifting
acquisition and budget priorities, and continued cost pressure at our U.S. DoD and non-U.S. customers will intensify
competition for many of our BDS products. Our BGS segment faces competition from many of the same strong U.S.
and non-U.S. competitors facing BCA and BDS. Furthermore, we are facing increased international competition and
cross-border consolidation of competition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully
against our current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not result in reduced revenues
and market share.
We derive a significant portion of our revenues from non-U.S. sales and are subject to the risks of doing
business in other countries.
In 2021, non-U.S. customers, which includes foreign military sales (FMS), accounted for approximately 37% of our
revenues. We expect that non-U.S. sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the
foreseeable future. As a result, we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including:
• changes in regulatory requirements or other executive branch actions, such as Executive Orders;
• changes in the global trade environment, including disputes with authorities in non-U.S. jurisdictions, including
international trade authorities, that could impact sales and/or delivery of products and services outside the U.S.
and/or impose costs on our customers in the form of tariffs, duties or penalties attributable to the importation of
Boeing products and services;
13
Table of Contents
• U.S. and non-U.S. government policies, including requirements to expend a portion of program funds locally
and governmental industrial cooperation or participation requirements;
• fluctuations in international currency exchange rates;
• volatility in international political and economic environments and changes in non-U.S. national priorities and
budgets, which can lead to delays or fluctuations in orders;
• the complexity and necessity of using non-U.S. representatives and consultants;
• the uncertainty of the ability of non-U.S. customers to finance purchases, including the availability of financing
from the Export-Import Bank of the United States;
• uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding credit or guarantees;
• imposition of domestic and international taxes, export controls, tariffs, embargoes, sanctions and other trade
restrictions;
• the difficulty of management and operation of an enterprise spread over many countries;
• compliance with a variety of non-U.S. laws, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies
abroad; and
• unforeseen developments and conditions, including terrorism, war, epidemics and international tensions and
conflicts.
While the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our
operations in the future. For example, since 2018, the U.S. and China have imposed tariffs on each other’s imports.
China is a very significant market for commercial airplanes and represents a significant component of our commercial
airplanes backlog. Impacts from these or future potential tariffs, or deterioration in trade relations between the U.S. and
one or more other countries, could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations
and/or cash flows.
We use estimates in accounting for many contracts and programs. Changes in our estimates could adversely
affect our future financial results.
Contract and program accounting require judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating revenues and costs and
making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts and
programs, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables.
Assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract or program because costs also
include expected increases in wages and employee benefits, material prices and allocated fixed costs. Incentives or
penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating sales and profit rates and are recorded
when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. Supplier claims and assertions are also
assessed and considered in estimating costs and profit rates. Estimates of future award fees are also included in sales
and profit rates.
With respect to each of our commercial aircraft programs, inventoriable production costs (including overhead), program
tooling and other non-recurring costs and routine warranty costs are accumulated and charged as cost of sales by
program instead of by individual units or contracts. A program consists of the estimated number of units (accounting
quantity) of a product to be produced in a continuing, long-term production effort for delivery under existing and
anticipated contracts limited by the ability to make reasonably dependable estimates. To establish the relationship of
sales to cost of sales, program accounting requires estimates of (a) the number of units to be produced and sold in a
program, (b) the period over which the units can reasonably be expected to be produced and (c) the units’ expected
sales prices, production costs, program tooling and other non-recurring costs, and routine warranty costs for the total
program. Several factors determine accounting quantity, including firm orders, letters of intent from prospective
customers and market studies. Changes to customer or model mix,
14
Table of Contents
production costs and rates, learning curve, changes to price escalation indices, costs of derivative aircraft, supplier
performance, customer and supplier negotiations/settlements, supplier claims and/or certification issues can impact
these estimates. In addition, on development programs such as the 777X, we are subject to risks with respect to the
timing and conditions of aircraft certification, including potential gaps between when aircraft are certified in various
jurisdictions, changes in certification processes and our estimates with respect to timing of future certifications, which
could have an impact on overall program status. Any such change in estimates relating to program accounting may
adversely affect future financial performance.
Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, materially different sales and
profit amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change.
Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect future period financial
performance. For additional information on our accounting policies for recognizing sales and profits, see our discussion
under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Critical Accounting Policies & Estimates – Accounting for Long-term
Contracts/Program Accounting” on pages 51 – 54 and Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 64 –
77 of this Form 10-K.
We may not realize the anticipated benefits of mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures/strategic alliances or
divestitures.
As part of our business strategy, we may merge with or acquire businesses and/or form joint ventures and strategic
alliances. Whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these acquisitions and related activities depends, in part,
upon our ability to integrate the operations of the acquired business, the performance of the underlying product and
service portfolio, and the performance of the management team and other personnel of the acquired operations.
Accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected by unanticipated performance issues, legacy liabilities,
transaction-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles, charges for impairment of long-term
assets, credit guarantees, partner performance and indemnifications. Consolidations of joint ventures could also impact
our reported results of operations or financial position. While we believe that we have established appropriate and
adequate procedures and processes to mitigate these risks, there is no assurance that these transactions will be
successful. We also may make strategic divestitures from time to time. These transactions may result in continued
financial involvement in the divested businesses, such as through guarantees or other financial arrangements, following
the transaction. Nonperformance by those divested businesses could affect our future financial results through
additional payment obligations, higher costs or asset write-downs.
Risks Related to Our Contracts
We conduct a significant portion of our business pursuant to U.S. government contracts, which are subject to
unique risks.
In 2021, 49% of our revenues were earned pursuant to U.S. government contracts, which include FMS through the
U.S. government. Business conducted pursuant to such contracts is subject to extensive procurement regulations and
other unique risks.
Our sales to the U.S. government are subject to extensive procurement regulations, and changes to those regulations
could increase our costs. New procurement regulations, or changes to existing requirements, could increase our
compliance costs or otherwise have a material impact on the operating margins of our BDS and BGS businesses.
These requirements may also result in withheld payments and/or reduced future business if we fail to comply. For
example, proposals to raise domestic content thresholds for our U.S. government contracts could have negative
impacts on our business. Compliance costs attributable to current and potential future procurement regulations such as
these could negatively impact our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows.
15
Table of Contents
The U.S. government may modify, curtail or terminate one or more of our contracts. The U.S. government contracting
party may modify, curtail or terminate its contracts and subcontracts with us, without prior notice and either at its
convenience or for default based on performance. In addition, funding pursuant to our U.S. government contracts may
be reduced or withheld as part of the U.S. Congressional appropriations process due to fiscal constraints, changes in
U.S. national security strategy and/or priorities or other reasons. Further uncertainty with respect to ongoing programs
could also result in the event that the U.S. government finances its operations through temporary funding measures
such as “continuing resolutions” rather than full-year appropriations. Any loss or anticipated loss or reduction of
expected funding and/or modification, curtailment or termination of one or more large programs could have a material
adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows.
We are subject to U.S. government inquiries and investigations, including periodic audits of costs that we determine are
reimbursable under U.S. government contracts. U.S. government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit
Agency and the Defense Contract Management Agency, routinely audit government contractors. These agencies
review our performance under contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and
standards, as well as the adequacy of and our compliance with our internal control systems and policies. Any costs
found to be misclassified or inaccurately allocated to a specific contract will be deemed non-reimbursable, and to the
extent already reimbursed, must be refunded. Any inadequacies in our systems and policies could result in withholds
on billed receivables, penalties and reduced future business. Furthermore, if any audit, inquiry or investigation uncovers
improper or illegal activities, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including
termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing
business with the U.S. government. We also could suffer reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made
against us, even if such allegations are later determined to be false.
We enter into fixed-price contracts which could subject us to losses if we have cost overruns.
Our BDS and BGS defense businesses generated approximately 68% and 69% of their 2021 revenues from fixed-price
contracts. While fixed-price contracts enable us to benefit from performance improvements, cost reductions and
efficiencies, they also subject us to the risk of reduced margins or incurring losses if we are unable to achieve
estimated costs and revenues. In addition, increased compliance costs and costs due to loss of productivity due to
COVID-19 may not be reimbursed. If our estimated costs exceed our estimated price, we recognize reach-forward
losses which can significantly affect our reported results. For example in the fourth quarter of 2021, BDS recorded
additional losses of $402 million on the KC-46A Tanker contract reflecting continued disruption in the factory and in the
supply chain, including impacts of COVID-19, and an increase in costs to complete the new Remote Vision System as
the customer’s requirements definition has evolved. New programs could also have risk for reach-forward loss upon
contract award and during the period of contract performance. The long term nature of many of our contracts makes
the process of estimating costs and revenues on fixed-price contracts inherently risky. Fixed-price contracts often
contain price incentives and penalties tied to performance, which can be difficult to estimate and have significant
impacts on margins. In addition, some of our contracts have specific provisions relating to cost, schedule and
performance.
Fixed-price development contracts are generally subject to more uncertainty than fixed-price production contracts.
Many of these development programs have highly complex designs. In addition, technical or quality issues that arise
during development could lead to schedule delays and higher costs to complete, which could result in a material charge
or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition. Examples of significant BDS fixed-price development contracts
include Commercial Crew, KC-46A Tanker, T-7A Red Hawk, VC-25B Presidential Aircraft, MQ-25, and commercial and
military satellites.
16
Table of Contents
We enter into cost-type contracts, which also carry risks.
Our BDS and BGS defense businesses generated approximately 32% and 31% of their 2021 revenues from cost-type
contracting arrangements. Some of these are development programs that have complex design and technical
challenges. These cost-type programs typically have award or incentive fees that are subject to uncertainty and may be
earned over extended periods. In these cases the associated financial risks are primarily in reduced fees, lower profit
rates or program cancellation if cost, schedule or technical performance issues arise. Programs whose contracts are
primarily cost-type include Ground-based Midcourse Defense (GMD), Proprietary and SLS programs.
We enter into contracts that include in-orbit incentive payments that subject us to risks.
Contracts in the commercial satellite industry and certain government satellite contracts include in-orbit incentive
payments. These in-orbit payments may be paid over time after final satellite acceptance or paid in full prior to final
satellite acceptance. In both cases, the in-orbit incentive payment is at risk if the satellite does not perform to
specifications for up to 15 years after acceptance. The net present value of in-orbit incentive fees we ultimately expect
to realize is recognized as revenue in the construction period. If the satellite fails to meet contractual performance
criteria, customers will not be obligated to continue making in-orbit payments and/or we may be required to provide
refunds to the customer and incur significant charges.
Risks Related to Cybersecurity and Business Disruptions
Unauthorized access to our, our customers’ and/or our suppliers’ information and systems could negatively
impact our business.
We face certain security threats, including threats to the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data and
systems. We maintain an extensive network of technical security controls, policy enforcement mechanisms, monitoring
systems and management oversight in order to address these threats. While these measures are designed to prevent,
detect and respond to unauthorized activity in our systems, certain types of attacks, including cyber-attacks, could
result in significant financial or information losses and/or reputational harm. In addition, we manage information and
information technology systems for certain customers and/or suppliers. Many of these customers and/or suppliers face
similar security threats. If we cannot prevent the unauthorized access, release and/or corruption of our customers’
and/or suppliers’ confidential, classified or personally identifiable information, our reputation could be damaged, and/or
we could face financial losses.
Business disruptions could seriously affect our future sales and financial condition or increase our costs and
expenses.
Our business may be impacted by disruptions including threats to physical security, information technology, or cyber-
attacks or failures, damaging or extreme weather (including effects of climate change), or other acts of nature and
pandemics or other public health crises. Any of these disruptions could affect our internal operations or our suppliers’
operations and delay delivery of products and services to our customers. Any significant production delays, or any
destruction, manipulation or improper use of Boeing’s or our suppliers’ data, information systems or networks could
impact our sales, increase our expenses and/or have an adverse effect on the reputation of Boeing and of our products
and services.
17
Table of Contents
Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters
The outcome of litigation and of government inquiries and investigations involving our business is
unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material effect on our financial
position and results of operations.
We are involved in a number of litigation matters. These matters may divert financial and management resources that
would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. No assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be
favorable to us. An adverse resolution of any of these lawsuits, or future lawsuits, could have a material impact on our
financial position and results of operations. In addition, we are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the
United States and its various states, as well as other jurisdictions in which we operate. As a result, we are sometimes
subject to government inquiries and investigations of our business due, among other things, to our business
relationships with the U.S. government, the heavily regulated nature of our industry, and in the case of environmental
proceedings, our current or past ownership of certain property. Any such inquiry or investigation could potentially result
in an adverse ruling against us, which could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations
and/or cash flows.
Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities.
We are subject to various U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. laws and regulations related to environmental
protection, including the discharge, treatment, storage, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and wastes.
We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, as well as third-party
claims for property damage or personal injury, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or
regulations. In some cases, we are subject to such costs due to environmental impacts attributable to our current or
past manufacturing operations or the operations of companies we have acquired. In other cases, we are subject to
such costs due to an indemnification agreement between us and a third party relating to such environmental liabilities.
In all cases, our current liabilities and ongoing cost assessments are based on current laws and regulations. New laws
and regulations, more stringent enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown
contamination or the imposition of new remediation requirements could result in additional costs. For additional
information relating to environmental contingencies, see Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
We may be adversely affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory or market responses to such
change.
Increasing stakeholder environmental, social and governance (ESG) expectations, physical and transition risks
associated with climate change, and emerging ESG regulation and policy requirements may pose risk to our market
outlook, brand and reputation, financial outlook, cost of capital, global supply chain and production continuity, which
may impact our ability to achieve long-term business objectives. Changes in environmental and climate change laws or
regulations could lead to additional operational restrictions and compliance requirements upon us or our products,
require new or additional investment in product designs, result in carbon offset investments or otherwise could
negatively impact our business and/or competitive position. Increasing aircraft performance standards and
requirements on manufacturing and product air pollutant emissions, especially greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, may
result in increased costs or reputational risks and could limit our ability to manufacture and/or market certain of our
products at acceptable costs, or at all. Physical impacts of climate change, increasing global chemical restrictions and
bans, and water and waste requirements may drive increased costs to us and our suppliers and impact our production
continuity and data facilities.
Finally, from time to time, in alignment with our sustainability priorities, we establish and publicly announce goals and
commitments to improve our environmental performance, such as our recent operational goals in areas of GHG
emissions, energy, water and waste. If we fail to achieve or
18
Table of Contents
improperly report on our progress toward achieving our environmental goals and commitments, the resulting negative
publicity could adversely affect our reputation and/or our access to capital.
Risks Related to Financing and Liquidity
We may be unable to obtain debt to fund our operations and contractual commitments at competitive rates, on
commercially reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts.
We depend, in part, upon the issuance of debt to fund our operations and contractual commitments. In addition, our
debt balances have increased significantly since 2019, driven primarily by impacts related to the 737 MAX grounding
and the COVID-19 pandemic, and we expect to continue to actively manage our liquidity. Our increased debt balance
has also resulted in downgrades to our credit ratings. As of December 31, 2021, our debt totaled $58.1 billion of which
approximately $11.4 billion of principal payments on outstanding debt become due over the next three years. In
addition, as of December 31, 2021, our airplane financing commitments totaled $12.9 billion. If we require additional
funding in order to pay off existing debt, address further impacts to our business related to the 737 MAX, COVID-19,
787 production issues or broader market developments, fund outstanding financing commitments or meet other
business requirements, our market liquidity may not be sufficient. These risks will be particularly acute if we are subject
to further credit rating downgrades. A number of factors could cause us to incur increased borrowing costs and to have
greater difficulty accessing public and private markets for debt. These factors include disruptions or declines in the
global capital markets and/or a decline in our financial performance, outlook or credit ratings, including impacts
described above related to the COVID-19 pandemic and/or associated changes in demand for our products and
services. The occurrence of any or all of these events may adversely affect our ability to fund our operations and
contractual or financing commitments.
Substantial pension and other postretirement benefit obligations have a material impact on our earnings,
shareholders’ equity and cash flows from operations, and could have significant adverse impacts in future
periods.
Many of our employees have earned benefits under defined benefit pension plans. Potential pension contributions
include both mandatory amounts required under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act and discretionary
contributions to improve the plans' funded status. The extent of future contributions depends heavily on market factors
such as the discount rate and the actual return on plan assets. We estimate future contributions to these plans using
assumptions with respect to these and other items. Changes to those assumptions could have a significant effect on
future contributions as well as on our annual pension costs and/or result in a significant change to shareholders' equity.
For U.S. government contracts, we allocate pension costs to individual contracts based on U.S. Cost Accounting
Standards which can also affect contract profitability. We also provide other postretirement benefits to certain of our
employees, consisting principally of health care coverage for eligible retirees and qualifying dependents. Our estimates
of future costs associated with these benefits are also subject to assumptions, including estimates of the level of
medical cost increases. For a discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension and other
postretirement plan accounting policies, see “Management's Discussion and Analysis - Critical Accounting Policies &
Estimates - Pension Plans” on pages 54 - 55 of this Form 10-K. Although under Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles in the United States of America (GAAP) the timing of periodic pension and other postretirement benefit
expense and plan contributions are not directly related, the key economic factors that affect GAAP expense would also
likely affect the amount of cash or stock we would contribute to our plans.
Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all significant risk exposures.
We are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products and services we provide. We maintain insurance for certain
risks and, in some circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the U.S.
19
Table of Contents
government. The amount of our insurance coverage may not cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to
bear substantial costs. For example, liabilities arising from the use of certain of our products, such as aircraft
technologies, space systems, spacecraft, satellites, missile systems, weapons, cybersecurity, border security systems,
anti-terrorism technologies and/or air traffic management systems may not be insurable on commercially reasonable
terms. While some of these products are shielded from liability within the U.S. under the SAFETY Act provisions of the
2002 Homeland Security Act, no such protection is available outside the U.S., potentially resulting in significant
liabilities. The amount of insurance coverage we maintain may be inadequate to cover these or other claims or
liabilities.
A significant portion of our customer financing portfolio is concentrated among certain customers and in
certain types of Boeing aircraft, which exposes us to concentration risks.
A significant portion of our customer financing portfolio is concentrated among certain customers and in distinct
geographic regions. Our portfolio is also concentrated by varying degrees across Boeing aircraft product types, most
notably 717 and 747-8 aircraft, and among customers that we believe have less than investment-grade credit. If one or
more customers holding a significant portion of our portfolio assets experiences financial difficulties or otherwise
defaults on or does not renew its leases with us at their expiration, and we are unable to redeploy the aircraft on
reasonable terms, or if the types of aircraft that are concentrated in our portfolio suffer greater than expected declines
in value, our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows could be materially adversely affected.
Risks Related to Labor
Some of our and our suppliers’ workforces are represented by labor unions, which may lead to work
stoppages.
Approximately 47,000 employees, which constitute 33% of our total workforce, were union represented as of
December 31, 2021. We experienced a work stoppage in 2008 when a labor strike halted commercial aircraft and
certain BDS program production. We may experience additional work stoppages in the future, which could adversely
affect our business. We cannot predict how stable our relationships, currently with 11 U.S. labor organizations and 12
non-U.S. labor organizations, will be or whether we will be able to meet the unions’ requirements without impacting our
financial condition. The unions may also limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. Union actions at suppliers can
also affect us. Work stoppages and instability in our union relationships could delay the production and/or development
of our products, which could strain relationships with customers and cause a loss of revenues which would adversely
affect our operations.
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
Not applicable
20
Table of Contents
Item 2. Properties
We occupied approximately 82 million square feet of floor space on December 31, 2021 for manufacturing,
warehousing, engineering, administration and other productive uses, of which approximately 93% was located in the
United States. The following table provides a summary of the floor space by business as of December 31, 2021:
(Square feet in thousands) Owned LeasedGovernment
Owned Total
Commercial Airplanes 39,166 2,112 41,278 
Defense, Space & Security 22,584 5,970 28,554 
Global Services 641 7,261 7,902 
Other 1,823 2,246 318 4,387 
Total 64,214 17,589 318 82,121 
Excludes rent-free space furnished by U.S. government landlord of 49 square feet.
Other includes sites used for BCC, common internal services and our Corporate Headquarters.
At December 31, 2021, we occupied in excess of 76 million square feet of floor space at the following major locations:
•Commercial Airplanes – Greater Seattle, WA; Greater Charleston, SC; Greater Portland, OR; Greater Los Angeles,
CA; Greater Salt Lake City, UT; Australia and Canada
•Defense, Space & Security – Greater St. Louis, MO; Greater Seattle, WA; Greater Los Angeles, CA; Philadelphia,
PA; Mesa, AZ; Huntsville, AL; Oklahoma City, OK; Heath, OH; Greater Washington, DC; Great Britain; Greater
Portland, OR; Australia and Houston, TX
•Global Services – San Antonio, TX; Greater Miami, FL; Dallas, TX; Germany; Jacksonville, FL; Great Britain and
Greater Denver, CO
•Other – Chicago, IL; Greater Los Angeles, CA ; Greater St. Louis, MO; and Greater Washington, DC.
Most runways and taxiways that we use are located on airport properties owned by others and are used jointly with
others. Our rights to use such facilities are provided for under long-term leases with municipal, county or other
government authorities. In addition, the U.S. government furnishes us certain office space, installations and equipment
at U.S. government bases for use in connection with various contract activities.
To support business needs, property requirements are being evaluated to align with previously announced staffing
reductions, utilization studies and strategic growth investments to optimize footprint.
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
Currently, we are involved in a number of legal proceedings. For a discussion of contingencies related to legal
proceedings, see Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which is hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable(1)
(2)
(1) 
(2) 
21
Table of Contents
PART II
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities
The principal market for our common stock is the New York Stock Exchange where it trades under the symbol BA. As of
January 24, 2022, there were 95,533 shareholders of record.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
The following table provides information about purchases we made during the quarter ended December 31, 2021 of
equity securities that are registered by us pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act:
(Dollars in millions, except per share data)
(a) (b) (c) (d)
Total Number
of Shares
PurchasedAverage
Price Paid per
ShareTotal Number of
Shares Purchased
as Part of Publicly
Announced Plans
or ProgramsApproximate Dollar
Value of Shares That May Yet
be Purchased Under the
Plans or Programs
10/1/2021 thru 10/31/2021 3,077 $223.99 
11/1/2021 thru 11/30/2021 3,940 212.15 
12/1/2021 thru 12/31/2021 80,937 206.62 
Total 87,954 $207.48 
A total of 87,954 shares were transferred to us from employees in satisfaction of minimum tax withholding
obligations associated with the vesting of restricted stock units during the period. We did not purchase any shares
of our common stock in the open market pursuant to a repurchase program.
On March 21, 2020, the Board of Directors terminated its prior authorization to repurchase shares of the
Company's outstanding common stock. Share repurchases under this plan had been suspended since April 2019.
Item 6. [Reserved](1) (2)
(1)
(2)
22
Table of Contents
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Consolidated Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Overview
We are a global market leader in the design, development, manufacture, sale, service and support of commercial
jetliners, military aircraft, satellites, missile defense, human space flight and launch systems and services. We are one
of the two major manufacturers of 100+ seat airplanes for the worldwide commercial airline industry and one of the
largest defense contractors in the U.S. While our principal operations are in the U.S., we conduct operations in an
expanding number of countries and rely on an extensive network of non-U.S. partners, key suppliers and
subcontractors.
Our strategy is centered on successful execution in healthy core businesses – Commercial Airplanes (BCA), Defense,
Space & Security (BDS) and Global Services (BGS) – supplemented and supported by Boeing Capital (BCC). Taken
together, these core businesses have historically generated substantial earnings and cash flow that permit us to invest
in new products and services. We focus on producing the products and providing the services that the market
demands, and continue to find new ways to improve efficiency and quality to provide a fair return for our shareholders.
BCA is committed to being the leader in commercial aviation by offering airplanes and services that deliver superior
design, safety, efficiency and value to customers around the world. BDS integrates its resources in defense,
intelligence, communications, security, space and services to deliver capability-driven solutions to customers at
reduced costs. Our BDS strategy is to leverage our core businesses to capture key next-generation programs while
expanding our presence in adjacent and international markets, underscored by an intense focus on growth and
productivity. BGS provides support for commercial and defense through innovative, comprehensive and cost-
competitive product and service solutions. BCC facilitates, arranges, structures and provides selective financing
solutions for our Boeing customers.
Business Environment and Trends
The global outbreak of COVID-19, 787 production issues and associated rework, and the residual impacts of the 737
MAX grounding continued to have significant adverse impacts on our business in 2021. The COVID-19 pandemic has
caused an unprecedented shock to demand for air travel, creating a tremendous challenge for our customers, our
business and the entire commercial aerospace manufacturing and services sector. The latest International Air Transport
Association (IATA) release reported that passenger traffic in 2021 recovered to approximately 40% of 2019 levels, as
international markets saw continued reopening challenges. Additionally, global economic activity is improving, but
continues to be impacted by COVID-19, and governments continue to restrict travel to contain the spread of the virus.
While recovery is accelerating, we continue to expect that it will remain uneven as travel restrictions and varying
regional travel protocols continue to impact air travel.
Generally, we continue to expect domestic travel to recover faster than international travel. As a result, we expect the
narrow-body market to recover faster than the wide-body market. Also, the pace of the commercial market recovery will
be heavily dependent on COVID-19 infection rates, vaccination rates, and government travel and other restrictions on
trade and commercial activity. Demand for dedicated freighters continues to be strong, underpinned by a strong
recovery in global trade and overall air cargo growth. Overall cargo capacity remains challenged given the large impact
that COVID-19 has had on international passenger operations, which also carry cargo.
23
Table of Contents
Airline financial performance, which also plays a role in the demand for new capacity, has been adversely impacted by
the COVID-19 pandemic. According to IATA, net losses for the airline industry were $138 billion in 2020 and are
expected to be approximately $52 billion in 2021. Our customers are taking actions to combat the effects of the COVID-
19 pandemic on the market by preserving liquidity. This comes in many forms, such as deferrals of advances and other
payments to suppliers, deferrals of deliveries, reduced spending on services and, in some cases, cancellation of
orders. While the outlook is improving and we have seen an increase in new orders in 2021, we continue to face a
challenging environment in the near- to medium-term as airlines have adjusted to reduced traffic, which in turn has
resulted in lower demand for commercial aerospace products and services. The current environment is also affecting
the financial viability of some airlines.
We continue to expect commercial air travel to return to 2019 levels in 2023 to 2024. We expect it will take a few years
beyond that for the industry to return to long-term trend growth. To balance the supply and demand given the COVID-
19 shock and to preserve our long-term potential and competitiveness, we have reduced the production rates of several
of our BCA programs. These rate decisions are based on our ongoing assessments of the demand environment and
availability of aircraft financing. There is significant uncertainty with respect to when commercial air traffic levels will
recover, and whether, and at what point, capacity will return to and/or exceed pre-COVID-19 levels. During the fourth
quarter of 2020, we made adjustments to our estimates regarding timing of 777X entry into service and market
demand. We continue to anticipate that the first 777X delivery will occur in late 2023. We will closely monitor the key
factors that affect backlog and future demand for each of our commercial aircraft programs, including customers’
evolving fleet plans, the wide-body replacement cycle and the cargo market. We will maintain a disciplined rate
management process and make adjustments as appropriate in the future. Notwithstanding the changes we have made
to production rates, risk remains that further reductions will be required. Additionally, if we are unable to make timely
deliveries of the large number of aircraft in inventory as of December 31, 2021, future revenues, earnings and cash
flows will be adversely impacted.
Deliveries of the 737 MAX resumed in the fourth quarter of 2020, when the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
rescinded the order that grounded 737 MAX aircraft in the U.S. In addition, other non-U.S. civil aviation authorities,
including the Brazilian National Civil Aviation Agency, Transport Canada and the European Union Aviation Safety
Agency have subsequently approved return of operations, allowing us to resume deliveries in those jurisdictions. Over
185 countries have approved the resumption of 737 MAX operations. The Civil Aviation Administration of China issued
an airworthiness directive in the fourth quarter of 2021 outlining actions required for airlines to return to service. We
expect 737 MAX deliveries to China to resume in 2022, subject to final regulatory approvals, although risk remains
around the timing and rate of those deliveries. Orders to suspend operations of 737 MAX aircraft from non-U.S. civil
aviation authorities are still in effect in a small number of countries.
Deliveries and production have also been impacted by production issues and associated rework. For example,
deliveries of the 787 are currently paused and the production rate has been reduced while we focus on rework of
undelivered aircraft and continue to engage in detailed discussions with the FAA regarding required actions for
resuming deliveries. Risk remains that these issues may continue to impact the timing of airplane deliveries in inventory
and/or our ability to achieve planned production rates. Revenues, earnings and cash flows will continue to be impacted
until we are able to resume timely deliveries.
24
Table of Contents
The long-term outlook for the industry remains positive due to the fundamental drivers of air travel demand: economic
growth, increasing propensity to travel due to increased trade, globalization and improved airline services driven by
liberalization of air traffic rights between countries. The shock from COVID-19 has reduced the near- to medium-term
demand, but our Commercial Market Outlook forecast projects a 4% growth rate for passenger and cargo traffic over a
20 year period. Based on long-term global economic growth projections of 2.7% average annual gross domestic
product (GDP) growth, we project demand for approximately 43,610 new airplanes over the next 20 years. The industry
remains vulnerable to exogenous developments including fuel price spikes, credit market shocks, acts of terrorism,
natural disasters, conflicts, epidemics, pandemics and increased global environmental regulations.
A Continuing Resolution (CR), enacted on December 3, 2021, continues funding for the federal government at FY21
appropriated levels through February 18, 2022. Congress and the President must enact either full-year FY22
appropriations bills or an additional CR to fund government departments and agencies beyond February 18, 2022 or a
government shutdown could result, which may impact the Company’s operations.
At BGS, while the outlook is improving, we are continuing to see a direct impact on our commercial supply chain
business as fewer flights and more aircraft parked result in a decreased demand for our parts and logistics
offerings. Additionally, our commercial customers are curtailing discretionary spending, such as modifications and
upgrades, and focusing on required maintenance. Similar to BCA, we expect a multi-year recovery period for the
commercial services business. The demand outlook for our government services business remains stable; government
services comprises approximately half of BGS revenue, which is unchanged from pre-pandemic levels.
At BDS, we continue to see a healthy market with solid demand for our major platforms and programs both
domestically and internationally. However, while we continue to experience near-term production disruptions and
inefficiencies due to COVID-19 impacts, we saw improvements in 2021.
In addition, we are experiencing some supply chain shortages. Our suppliers are also experiencing liquidity pressures
and disruptions to their operations as a result of COVID-19. We continue to monitor the health and stability of the
supply chain as we ramp up production. These measures and disruptions have reduced overall productivity and
adversely impacted our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
We continue to transform and improve our business processes. These activities are not intended to constrain our
capacity but to enable the Company to emerge stronger and be more resilient when the market recovers. We expect
that successful execution of these measures will improve near-term liquidity and long-term cost competitiveness.
25
Table of Contents
Consolidated Results of Operations
The following table summarizes key indicators of consolidated results of operations:
(Dollars in millions, except per share data)
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Revenues $62,286 $58,158 $76,559 
GAAP
Loss from operations ($2,902) ($12,767) ($1,975)
Operating margins (4.7)% (22.0)% (2.6)%
Effective income tax rate 14.8 % 17.5 % 71.8 %
Net loss attributable to Boeing Shareholders ($4,202) ($11,873) ($636)
Diluted loss per share ($7.15) ($20.88) ($1.12)
Non-GAAP 
Core operating loss ($4,075) ($14,150) ($3,390)
Core operating margins (6.5 %) (24.3 %) (4.4 %)
Core loss per share ($9.44) ($23.25) ($3.47)
These measures exclude certain components of pension and other postretirement benefit expense. See pages 49 -
51 for important information about these non-GAAP measures and reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP
measures.
Revenues
The following table summarizes Revenues:
(Dollars in millions)
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Commercial Airplanes $19,493 $16,162 $32,255 
Defense, Space & Security 26,540 26,257 26,095 
Global Services 16,328 15,543 18,468 
Boeing Capital 272 261 244 
Unallocated items, eliminations and other (347) (65) (503)
Total $62,286 $58,158 $76,559 
Revenues increased by $4,128 million in 2021 compared with 2020 driven by higher revenues at BCA, BDS and BGS.
BCA revenues increased by $3,331 million primarily driven by higher 737 MAX deliveries due to recertification and
return to service in most jurisdictions and the absence of $498 million of 737 MAX customer considerations which
reduced revenues in 2020, partially offset by lower 787 deliveries in 2021. BDS revenues increased by $283 million
primarily from higher revenue on the KC-46A Tanker program and lower charges in 2021. BGS revenues increased by
$785 million primarily due to higher commercial and government services volume.
Revenues decreased by $18,401 million in 2020 compared with 2019 primarily due to lower revenues in our
commercial airplanes and commercial services businesses. Revenues for each of our segments have been adversely
impacted by COVID-19. BCA revenues decreased by $16,093 million due to lower deliveries driven by the impacts of
the COVID-19 pandemic, 787 production issues and the 737 MAX grounding, offset by lower charges related to
estimated potential concessions and other considerations to 737 MAX customers. BDS revenues increased by $162
million primarily due to higher fighter aircraft(1)
(1)
26
Table of Contents
and other volume, partially offset by the impact of higher unfavorable cumulative contract catch-up adjustments, largely
due to KC-46A Tanker charges in 2020. BGS revenues decreased by $2,925 million primarily due to lower commercial
services revenue driven by the COVID-19 pandemic. The changes in Unallocated items, eliminations and other
primarily reflect the timing of eliminations for intercompany aircraft deliveries, as well as reserves related to cost
accounting litigation recorded in 2019.
Revenues will continue to be significantly impacted until deliveries ramp up and the commercial airline industry
recovers from the impacts of COVID-19.
Loss From Operations
The following table summarizes Loss from operations:
(Dollars in millions)
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Commercial Airplanes ($6,475) ($13,847) ($6,657)
Defense, Space & Security 1,544 1,539 2,615 
Global Services 2,017 450 2,697 
Boeing Capital 106 63 28 
Segment operating loss (2,808) (11,795) (1,317)
Pension FAS/CAS service cost adjustment 882 1,024 1,071 
Postretirement FAS/CAS service cost adjustment 291 359 344 
Unallocated items, eliminations and other (1,267) (2,355) (2,073)
Loss from operations (GAAP) ($2,902) ($12,767) ($1,975)
FAS/CAS service cost adjustment * (1,173) (1,383) (1,415)
Core operating loss (Non-GAAP) ** ($4,075) ($14,150) ($3,390)
*    The FAS/CAS service cost adjustment represents the difference between the FAS pension and postretirement
service costs calculated under GAAP and costs allocated to the business segments.
**    Core operating earnings is a Non-GAAP measure that excludes the FAS/CAS service cost adjustment. See pages
49 - 51.
Loss from operations decreased by $9,865 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to lower losses at BCA
and higher earnings at BGS. BCA loss from operations decreased by $7,372 million primarily due to the absence of a
$6,493 million reach-forward loss on the 777X program recorded in 2020, lower period expenses, lower 737 MAX
customer considerations and higher 737 MAX deliveries, partially offset by a $3,460 million reach-forward loss on the
787 program in 2021. BGS earnings from operations increased by $1,567 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily
due to charges incurred in 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as higher commercial services volume.
Loss from operations increased by $10,792 million in 2020 compared with 2019 primarily due to increased losses at
BCA and decreased earnings at BGS and BDS. BCA loss from operations increased by $7,190 million. The loss in
2020 primarily reflects a reach-forward loss recorded in the fourth quarter of $6,493 million on the 777X program.
BCA’s loss in 2020 also reflects the absence of MAX deliveries during the first three quarters of the year, lower wide-
body deliveries and lower program margins resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and 787 production issues,
abnormal production costs, 737NG frame fitting component repair costs, severance costs and 737 MAX customer
considerations.
The loss in 2019 primarily reflects the absence of 737 MAX deliveries in the second, third and fourth quarters and
charges of $8,259 million for estimated 737 MAX customer considerations. BDS earnings
27
Table of Contents
decreased by $1,076 million in 2020 compared with 2019, primarily due to higher unfavorable cumulative contract
catch-up adjustments, including charges of $1,320 million on KC-46A Tanker and $168 million on VC-25B in 2020,
partially offset by $489 million of charges on Commercial Crew in 2019. The lower earnings were also driven by lower
gains on property sales compared to 2019. BGS earnings from operations decreased by $2,247 million in 2020
compared with 2019 primarily due to lower commercial services revenue, as well as asset impairments and severance
costs resulting from the COVID-19 market environment.
Lower commercial airplane deliveries and the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to have a significant adverse impact
on future earnings and margins until deliveries ramp up and return to historical levels.
Core operating loss decreased by $10,075 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to lower losses at BCA
and higher earnings at BGS, as described above.
Core operating loss increased by $10,760 million in 2020 compared with 2019 primarily due to higher losses at BCA
and lower earnings at BGS and BDS.
Unallocated Items, Eliminations and Other The most significant items included in Unallocated items, eliminations
and other are shown in the following table:
(Dollars in millions)
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Share-based plans ($174) ($120) ($65)
Deferred compensation (126) (93) (174)
Amortization of previously capitalized interest (107) (95) (89)
Research and development expense, net (184) (240) (401)
Customer financing impairment (250)
Litigation (109)
Eliminations and other unallocated items (676) (1,807) (985)
Unallocated items, eliminations and other ($1,267) ($2,355) ($2,073)
Share-based plans expense increased by $54 million in 2021 and $55 million in 2020. The higher expense in 2021 was
primarily related to a one-time grant of restricted stock units (RSUs) to most employees in December 2020. The
increase in 2020 was due to increased grants of RSUs and other share-based compensation.
Deferred compensation expense increased by $33 million in 2021, primarily driven by changes in our stock price, and
decreased by $81 million in 2020, primarily driven by changes in broad stock market conditions and our stock price.
Research and development expense decreased by $56 million in 2021 and $161 million in 2020 primarily due to
decreases in enterprise investments in product development.
In 2019, we recorded a $250 million charge related to the impairment of lease incentives with one customer that
experienced liquidity issues and a $109 million charge related to ongoing litigation associated with recoverable costs on
U.S. government contracts.
Eliminations and other unallocated expense decreased by $1,131 million in 2021 and increased by $822 million in 2020
primarily due to earnings charges of $744 million in the fourth quarter of 2020 in anticipation of the agreement between
Boeing and the U.S. Department of Justice that was finalized in January 2021 and higher income from operating
investments in 2021. See Note 21.
28
Table of Contents
Net periodic pension benefit costs included in Loss from operations were as follows:
(Dollars in millions) Pension
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Allocated to business segments ($885) ($1,027) ($1,384)
Pension FAS/CAS service cost adjustment 882 1,024 1,071 
Net periodic pension benefit cost included in Loss from operations ($3) ($3) ($313)
The pension FAS/CAS service cost adjustment recognized in Loss from operations in 2021 decreased by $142 million
compared with 2020 due to reductions in allocated pension cost year over year. The pension FAS/CAS service cost
adjustment recognized in Loss from operations in 2020 was largely consistent with 2019. Net periodic benefit cost
included in Loss from operations in 2021 was largely consistent with 2020. The decrease in net periodic benefit cost
included in Loss from operations in 2020 was primarily due to prior year service cost that was included in earnings in
2019.
For additional discussion related to Postretirement Plans, see Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Other Earnings Items
(Dollars in millions)
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Loss from operations ($2,902) ($12,767) ($1,975)
Other income, net 551 447 438 
Interest and debt expense (2,682) (2,156) (722)
Loss before income taxes (5,033) (14,476) (2,259)
Income tax benefit 743 2,535 1,623 
Net loss from continuing operations (4,290) (11,941) (636)
Less: net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (88) (68)
Net loss attributable to Boeing Shareholders ($4,202) ($11,873) ($636)
Non-operating pension income included in Other income, net was $528 million in 2021, $340 million in 2020 and $374
million in 2019. The increased income in 2021 compared to 2020 was primarily due to lower interest cost and higher
expected return on plan assets, partially offset by higher amortization of net actuarial losses and higher settlement
charges. The decreased income in 2020 compared to 2019 was due to higher amortization of actuarial losses and
lower asset returns, partially offset by lower interest cost.
Non-operating postretirement income included in Other income, net was $1 million in 2021, compared with expense of
$16 million in 2020 and $107 million in 2019. The increased income in 2021 compared to 2020 was due to lower
interest cost. The decreased expense in 2020 compared to 2019 was due to lower interest cost.
Interest and debt expense increased by $526 million in 2021 and increased by $1,434 million in 2020 as a result of
higher average debt balances.
For additional discussion related to Income Taxes, see Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
29
Table of Contents
Total Costs and Expenses (“Cost of Sales”)
Cost of sales, for both products and services, consists primarily of raw materials, parts, sub-assemblies, labor,
overhead and subcontracting costs. Our BCA segment predominantly uses program accounting to account for cost of
sales. Under program accounting, cost of sales for each commercial airplane program equals the product of (i) revenue
recognized in connection with customer deliveries and (ii) the estimated cost of sales percentage applicable to the total
remaining program. For long-term contracts, the amount reported as cost of sales is recognized as incurred.
Substantially all contracts at our BDS segment and certain contracts at our BGS segment are long-term contracts with
the U.S. government and other customers that generally extend over several years. Cost of sales for commercial spare
parts is recorded at average cost.
The following table summarizes cost of sales:
(Dollars in millions)
Years ended December 31 2021 2020 Change 2020 2019 Change
Cost of sales $59,269 $63,843 ($4,574) $63,843 $72,093 ($8,250)
Cost of sales as a % of
Revenues 95.2 % 109.8 % (14.6)% 109.8 % 94.2 % 15.6 %
Cost of sales decreased by $4,574 million in 2021 compared with 2020, primarily due to higher earnings charges at
BCA, BDS and BGS in 2020, partially offset by higher costs as a result of higher revenues in 2021 and the reach-
forward loss on the 787 program. Cost of sales as a percentage of Revenues decreased in 2021 compared to 2020
primarily due to higher earnings charges at BCA and BGS in 2020 and higher revenues in 2021.
Cost of sales decreased by $8,250 million in 2020 compared with 2019, primarily due to lower revenue in 2020,
partially offset by higher charges in 2020 related to the 777X program, COVID-19 impacts, KC-46A Tanker program,
abnormal production costs at BCA and severance costs. Cost of sales as a percentage of Revenues increased in 2020
compared to 2019 primarily due to the reach-forward loss on the 777X program, impacts of the 737 MAX grounding
and the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as severance costs.
Research and Development The following table summarizes our Research and development expense:
(Dollars in millions)
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Commercial Airplanes $1,140 $1,385 $1,956 
Defense, Space & Security 818 713 741 
Global Services 107 138 121 
Other 184 240 401 
Total $2,249 $2,476 $3,219 
Research and development expense decreased by $227 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to lower
BCA and enterprise investments in product development and lower spending on the 777X program.
Research and development expense decreased by $743 million in 2020 compared with 2019 primarily due to lower
spending at BCA and at Boeing NeXt on product development.
30
Table of Contents
Backlog
Our backlog at December 31 was as follows:
(Dollars in millions)
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020
Commercial Airplanes $296,882 $281,588 
Defense, Space & Security 59,828 60,847 
Global Services 20,496 20,632 
Unallocated items, eliminations and other 293 337 
Total Backlog $377,499 $363,404 
Contractual backlog $356,362 $339,309 
Unobligated backlog 21,137 24,095 
Total Backlog $377,499 $363,404 
Contractual backlog of unfilled orders excludes purchase options, announced orders for which definitive contracts have
not been executed, orders where customers have the unilateral right to terminate, and unobligated U.S. and non-U.S.
government contract funding. The increase in contractual backlog during 2021 was primarily due to new orders,
reclassifications from unobligated backlog related to BDS and BGS contracts, increases in price escalation and
reductions in the number of existing orders that in our assessment do not meet the accounting requirements of
Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606 for inclusion in backlog, partially offset by deliveries and cancellations.
During 2021, we have had higher ASC 606 adjustments of 787 orders as a result of delivery delays related to
inspections and rework. If 787 aircraft deliveries continue to be paused, we remain unable to deliver 737 MAX aircraft in
China for an extended period of time, and/or entry into service of the 777X, 737 MAX 7 and/or 737 MAX 10 is further
delayed, we may experience additional reductions to backlog and/or significant order cancellations. Additionally, we
may continue to experience fewer new orders and increased cancellations across all of our commercial airplane
programs as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and associated impacts on demand.
Unobligated backlog includes U.S. and non-U.S. government definitive contracts for which funding has not been
authorized. The decrease in unobligated backlog in 2021 was primarily due to reclassifications to contractual backlog
related to BDS and BGS contracts, partially offset by contract awards.
Additional Considerations
Global Trade We continually monitor the global trade environment in response to geopolitical economic developments,
as well as changes in tariffs, trade agreements or sanctions that may impact the company.
The global economy continues to experience significant adverse impacts due to the COVID-19 pandemic, including a
decline in overall trade in general and in aerospace in particular. There is a great deal of uncertainty regarding the
duration, scale and localization of these impacts to the global economy and governments are enacting a wide range of
responses to mitigate the unfolding economic impacts. We are closely monitoring the current impact and potential
future economic consequences of COVID-19 to the global economy, the aerospace sector and our Company. These
adverse economic impacts have resulted in fewer orders than previously anticipated for our commercial aircraft.
31
Table of Contents
The current state of U.S.-China relations remains a significant watch item. China is a very significant market for
commercial airplanes and represents a significant component of our commercial airplanes backlog. Since 2018, the
U.S. and China imposed an escalating series of tariffs on each other’s imports. Certain aircraft parts and components
that Boeing procures are subject to these tariffs. The U.S. and China entered into a Phase I agreement in January
2020. However, as of December 31, 2021, implementation of this agreement is incomplete and overall diplomatic
relations between the U.S. and China have deteriorated. We continue monitoring developments for potential adverse
impacts to the Company.
Beginning in June 2018, the U.S. Government has imposed tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. In response to these
tariffs, several major U.S. trading partners have imposed, or announced their intention to impose, tariffs on U.S. goods.
In May 2019, the U.S. Government, Mexico and Canada reached an agreement to end the steel and aluminum tariffs
between these countries. Implementation of the U.S./Mexico/Canada Free Trade Agreement (USMCA) will also result
in lower tariffs. In October 2021, the U.S. and European Union (EU) announced an agreement to ease steel and
aluminum tariffs. We continue to monitor the potential for any extra costs that may result from the remaining global
tariffs.
The current status of U.S.-Russia relations is creating an adverse climate for our business. The U.S. Government
continues to impose and/or consider imposing sanctions on certain businesses and individuals in Russia. We continue
to monitor and evaluate additional sanctions and export restrictions that may be imposed by the U.S. Government and
any responses from Russia that could directly affect our supply chain, business partners or customers. We also
continue to support the 737 MAX return to service in Russia.
The U.S. and EU have been engaged in two long-running disputes at the World Trade Organization (WTO) relating to
large civil aircraft. As part of those disputes, in October 2019, the WTO authorized the U.S. to impose approximately
$7.50 billion in annual tariffs on EU products in connection with the EU’s provision of eight instances of launch aid
subsidies to Airbus. Following this authorization, the U.S. began to impose 15% tariffs on new Airbus airplanes
imported into the U.S. as well as fuselages that Airbus manufactures in Europe and imports into the U.S. In October
2020, the WTO authorized the EU to impose approximately $3.99 billion in annual tariffs on U.S. products in connection
with a tax incentive used by Boeing in Washington state that has since been repealed. Shortly thereafter, the EU began
to impose 15% tariffs on Boeing airplanes imported into the EU. On June 15, 2021, the U.S. and EU announced that
they had reached a cooperative framework to address the large civil aircraft disputes. As part of the framework, among
other items, both sides announced an intent to continue to suspend tariffs related to the disputes for five years. The
U.S. and U.K. announced a similar agreement on June 17, 2021.
Segment Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Commercial Airplanes
Business Environment and Trends
Airline Industry Environment See Overview to Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations for a discussion of the impacts of COVID-19 on the airline industry environment.
Industry Competitiveness The industry continues to adjust to the unprecedented COVID-19 shock and subsequent
economic impact, government restrictions and new regulations. The commercial airplane market and the airline
industry both remain extremely competitive. While the impacts and responses have varied globally, the reduction of
demand and disruption in production has adversely impacted most manufacturers in the commercial airplane industry.
32
Table of Contents
Continued access to global markets remains vital to our ability to fully realize our sales potential and long-term
investment returns. Approximately 80% of Commercial Airplanes’ total backlog, in dollar terms, is with non-U.S. airlines.
We face aggressive international competitors who are intent on increasing their market share. They offer competitive
products and have access to most of the same customers and suppliers. The grounding of the 737 MAX and the
associated suspension of 737 MAX deliveries in multiple jurisdictions significantly reduced our market share with
respect to deliveries of single aisle aircraft in 2019, 2020 and 2021 and may provide competitors with an opportunity to
obtain more orders and increase market share. With government support, Airbus has historically invested heavily to
create a family of products to compete with ours. After the acquisition of a majority share of Bombardier’s C Series
(now A220) in 2018, Airbus continues to expand in the 100-150 seat transcontinental market. Other competitors are
also in different phases of developing commercial jet aircraft. Some of these competitors have historically enjoyed
access to government-provided financial support, including “launch aid,” which greatly reduces the cost and
commercial risks associated with airplane development activities. This has enabled the development of airplanes
without broad commercial viability; others to be brought to market more quickly than otherwise possible; and many
offered for sale below market-based prices. Competitors continue to make improvements in efficiency, which may result
in funding product development, gaining market share and improving earnings. This market environment has resulted
in intense pressures on pricing and other competitive factors, and we expect these pressures to continue or intensify in
the coming years.
We are focused on improving our products and services and continuing our business transformation efforts, which
enhances our ability to compete and positions us for market recovery. We are also focused on taking actions to ensure
that Boeing is not harmed by unfair subsidization of competitors.
Results of Operations
(Dollars in millions)
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Revenues $19,493 $16,162 $32,255 
% of total company revenues 31 % 28 % 42 %
Loss from operations ($6,475) ($13,847) ($6,657)
Operating margins (33.2)% (85.7)% (20.6)%
Research and development $1,140 $1,385 $1,956 
Revenues
BCA revenues increased by $3,331 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to higher 737 MAX deliveries
driven by recertification and return to service in most jurisdictions and the absence of charges for 737 MAX customer
considerations which reduced revenues in 2020, partially offset by lower 787 deliveries in 2021.
BCA revenues decreased by $16,093 million in 2020 compared with 2019 due to lower deliveries primarily driven by the
impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, 787 production issues and the 737 MAX grounding. This was partially offset by
lower charges related to estimated potential concessions and other considerations to 737 MAX customers of $498
million in 2020 compared with $8,259 million in 2019.
We resumed deliveries of 737 MAX aircraft in December 2020 following rescission by the FAA of its grounding order. As
of December 31, 2021, most non-U.S. jurisdictions have approved return to service of the 737 MAX. 787 deliveries
have been paused since May 2021. Revenues will continue to be impacted until deliveries of the 737 MAX ramp up,
deliveries of the 787 resume and the commercial airline industry recovers from the impacts of COVID-19.
33
Table of Contents
Commercial Airplanes deliveries as of December 31 were as follows:
737 * 747 767 * 777 † 787 Total
2021
Cumulative deliveries 7,745 1,567 1,238 1,677 1,006
Deliveries 263(16) 7 32(13) 24 14 340
2020
Cumulative deliveries 7,482 1,560 1,206 1,653 992
Deliveries 43 5 30 26 53 157
2019
Cumulative deliveries 7,439 1,555 1,176 1,627 939
Deliveries 127 7 43 45 158 380
* Intercompany deliveries identified by parentheses
† Aircraft accounted for as revenues by BCA and as operating leases in consolidation identified by parentheses
Loss From Operations
BCA loss from operations was $6,475 million in 2021 compared with $13,847 million in 2020. The 2021 loss includes a
reach-forward loss on the 787 program of $3,460 million, abnormal production costs related to 737 MAX of $1,887
million, and abnormal production costs related to the 787 program of $468 million resulting from continued production
issues, inspections and rework, partially offset by higher 737 MAX deliveries. The 2020 loss reflects the reach-forward
loss on 777X of $6,493 million and additional drivers as noted in the paragraph below.
BCA loss from operations was $13,847 million in 2020 compared with $6,657 million in 2019. The 2020 loss reflects the
reach-forward loss on 777X of $6,493 million, lower deliveries and lower program margins resulting from the COVID-19
pandemic, $2,567 million of abnormal production costs related to 737 MAX, $623 million of severance cost, $498
million of 737 MAX customer considerations, $336 million related to 737NG frame fitting component repair costs and
$270 million of abnormal production costs in the first half of 2020 from the temporary suspension of operations in
response to COVID-19, partially offset by lower research and development spending. Lower 787 margins reflecting a
reduction in the accounting quantity in the first quarter of 2020 also contributed to lower earnings. The 2019 loss
primarily reflects the absence of 737 MAX deliveries in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2019 and charges of
$8,259 million for estimated 737 MAX customer considerations.
Lower commercial airplane deliveries and the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to have a significant adverse impact
on future earnings and margins until deliveries ramp up and return to historical levels.
Backlog
Our total backlog represents the estimated transaction prices on unsatisfied and partially satisfied performance
obligations to our customers where we believe it is probable that we will collect the consideration due and where no
contingencies remain before we and the customer are required to perform. Backlog does not include prospective orders
where customer controlled contingencies remain, such as the customer receiving approval from its board of directors,
shareholders or government or completing financing arrangements. All such contingencies must be satisfied or have
expired prior to recording a new firm order even if satisfying such conditions is highly certain. Backlog excludes options
and BCC orders as well as orders where customers have the unilateral right to terminate. A number of our customers
may have contractual remedies, including rights to reject individual airplane deliveries if the actual delivery date is
significantly later than the contractual delivery date. We address customer(14) (11)
(19) (23) (2)
34
Table of Contents
claims and requests for other contractual relief as they arise. The value of orders in backlog is adjusted as changes to
price and schedule are agreed to with customers and is reported in accordance with the requirements of ASC 606.
BCA total backlog of $296,882 million at December 31, 2021 increased from $281,588 million at December 31, 2020,
reflecting new orders in excess of deliveries, increases in projected price escalation and decreases in the number of
existing orders that in our assessment do not meet the accounting requirements of ASC 606 for inclusion in backlog,
partially offset by aircraft order cancellations. Aircraft order cancellations during the year ended December 31, 2021
totaled $27,542 million and primarily relate to 737 MAX and 787 aircraft. The net ASC 606 adjustments decreased for
the year ended December 31, 2021, which resulted in an increase to backlog of $3,810 million primarily due to 777X
aircraft, partially offset by 787 aircraft. ASC 606 adjustments include consideration of aircraft orders where a customer
controlled contingency may exist, as well as an assessment of whether the customer is committed to perform or
whether it is probable that the customer will pay the full amount of consideration when it is due. If 787 aircraft deliveries
continue to be paused, we are unable to ramp up deliveries of 737 MAX aircraft, and/or if entry into service of the 777X,
737 MAX 7 and/or 737 MAX 10 is further delayed, we may experience additional reductions to backlog and/or
significant order cancellations. Additionally, we may continue to experience fewer new orders and increased
cancellations across all of our commercial airplane programs as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and associated
impacts on demand.
Accounting Quantity The accounting quantity is our estimate of the quantity of airplanes that will be produced for
delivery under existing and anticipated contracts. The determination of the accounting quantity is limited by the ability to
make reasonably dependable estimates of the revenue and cost of existing and anticipated contracts. It is a key
determinant of the gross margins we recognize on sales of individual airplanes throughout a program’s life. Estimation
of each program’s accounting quantity takes into account several factors that are indicative of the demand for that
program, including firm orders, letters of intent from prospective customers and market studies. We review our program
accounting quantities quarterly.
The accounting quantity for each program may include units that have been delivered, undelivered units under contract
and units anticipated to be under contract in the reasonable future (anticipated orders). In developing total program
estimates, all of these items within the accounting quantity must be considered.
35
Table of Contents
The following table provides details of the accounting quantities and firm orders by program as of December 31.
Cumulative firm orders represent the cumulative number of commercial jet aircraft deliveries plus undelivered firm
orders. Firm orders include military derivative aircraft that are not included in program accounting quantities. All
revenues and costs associated with military derivative aircraft production are reported in the BDS segment.
Program
737 747 767 777 777X 787 †
2021
Program accounting quantities 10,4001,5741,2431,750 350 1,500
Undelivered units under firm orders 3,414 6 108 58 253 411 (14)
Cumulative firm orders 11,1591,5731,3461,735 2531,417
2020
Program accounting quantities 10,0001,5741,2071,700 3501,500
Undelivered units under firm orders 3,282 8 75 41 191 458 (22)
Cumulative firm orders 10,7641,5681,2811,694 1911,450
2019
Program accounting quantities 10,4001,5741,1951,690 **1,600
Undelivered units under firm orders 4,398 17 94 68 309 520 (29)
Cumulative firm orders 11,8371,5721,2701,695 3091,459
† Aircraft ordered by BCC are identified in parentheses.
** See 777 and 777X Programs for discussion of the 777X accounting quantity.
Program Highlights
737 Program The accounting quantity for the 737 program increased by 400 units during 2021 due to the program's
normal progress of obtaining additional orders and delivering airplanes. See further discussion of the 737 MAX in Note
13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
747 Program We are currently producing at a rate of 0.5 aircraft per month. We expect to complete production of the
747 in the second half of 2022. We believe that ending production of the 747 will not have a material impact on our
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
767 Program The accounting quantity for the 767 program increased by 36 units during 2021 due to the program's
normal progress of obtaining additional orders and delivering airplanes. The 767 assembly line includes the commercial
program and a derivative to support the tanker program. The commercial program has near break-even gross margins.
We are currently producing at a rate of 3 aircraft per month.
777 and 777X Programs The accounting quantity for the 777 program increased by 50 units during 2021 due to the
program’s normal progress of obtaining additional orders and delivering airplanes. The production rate for the
combined 777/777X program is expected to increase from 2 per month to 3 per month in 2022.
In 2013, we launched the 777X-8 and 777X-9, which feature new composite wings, new engines and folding wing-tips.
The first flight of the 777X was completed during the first quarter of 2020. In 2021, we began offering the 777X freighter
to customers and expect to receive initial orders in 2022.
During the fourth quarter of 2020, we revised the estimated first delivery date of the 777X to late 2023 and recorded a
$6.5 billion reach-forward loss on the 777X program. The revised schedule and reach-
36
Table of Contents
forward loss reflected a number of factors, including an updated assessment of global certification requirements
informed by continued discussions with regulators and a management decision in the fourth quarter of 2020 to make
modifications to the aircraft’s design, an updated assessment of COVID-19 impacts on market demand and discussions
with our customers with respect to aircraft delivery timing. These factors resulted in adjustments to production rates and
the program accounting quantity, increased change incorporation costs, and associated customer and supply chain
impacts. The initial accounting quantity of 350 airplanes established in the fourth quarter of 2020 consists of 777X
passenger airplanes and remained unchanged during 2021.
We are working towards reaching Type Inspection Authorization (TIA) which will enable us to begin FAA certification
flight testing. The timing of TIA and certification will ultimately be determined by the regulators, and further
determinations with respect to anticipated certification requirements could result in additional delays in entry into
service and/or additional cost increases.
We continue to anticipate that the first 777X delivery will occur in late 2023. The 777X program has near break-even
gross margins at December 31, 2021. The level of profitability on the 777X program will be subject to a number of
factors. These factors include continued market uncertainty, the impacts of COVID-19 on our production system as well
as impacts on our supply chain and customers, customer negotiations, further production rate adjustments for the 777X
or other commercial aircraft programs, contraction of the accounting quantity and potential risks associated with the
testing program and the timing of aircraft certification. One or more of these factors could result in additional reach-
forward losses on the 777X program in future periods.
787 Program During 2020, we experienced significant reductions in deliveries due to the impacts of COVID-19 on our
customers as well as production issues and associated rework. During 2021 we delivered 14 aircraft between March
2021 and May 2021 prior to deliveries being paused in May 2021. Deliveries remain paused.
At December 31, 2021 and 2020 we had approximately 110 and 80 aircraft in inventory. We have identified production
quality issues, including in our supply chain, which have contributed to the pause in deliveries. In July 2021, we
announced that we were reprioritizing production resources to support inspections and rework. We continue to conduct
inspections and rework on undelivered aircraft and engage in detailed discussions with the FAA regarding required
actions for resuming delivery of the 787. We are currently producing at very low rates and expect that to continue until
deliveries resume, gradually returning to 5 per month over time. In the third quarter of 2021, we determined that in the
current environment production rates below 5 per month represent abnormally low production rates and result in
abnormal production costs, and that inspections and rework costs on inventoried aircraft are excessive and should also
be accounted for as abnormal production costs that are required to be expensed as incurred. In the fourth quarter of
2021, we determined that the ongoing rework, as well as our ongoing discussions with the FAA in anticipation of
resumption of deliveries, will result in lower production rates longer than previously expected. As a result of these
impacts, we expect to incur approximately $2 billion of abnormal production costs on a cumulative basis with most
being incurred by the end of 2023. We continue to work with customers and suppliers regarding timing of future
deliveries and production rate changes. We are also continuing to implement changes in the production process
designed to ensure that newly-built airplanes meet our specifications and do not require further inspections and rework.
During the first quarter of 2021, we consolidated 787 production in South Carolina, in line with our previous
assumptions, which did not have a significant financial impact on the program.
During the fourth quarter of 2021, we recorded a loss of $3.5 billion on the program primarily due to the additional
rework, as well as other actions required to resume 787 deliveries, taking longer than
37
Table of Contents
expected. These impacts have resulted in longer than expected delivery delays and associated customer
considerations.
The timing of the resumption of deliveries and future production rates will depend upon rework, ongoing customer and
supplier engagement, production stability and our activities with the FAA. China is a significant market for the 787
program, and if the program is unable to obtain additional orders from China in future quarters, we may be required to
further adjust production rate assumptions. If we are required to further reduce the accounting quantity and/or
production rates, experience further delivery delays or experience other factors that result in lower margins, the
program could record additional losses and higher abnormal production costs in future periods.
Fleet Support We provide the operators of our commercial airplanes with assistance and services to facilitate efficient
and safe airplane operation. Collectively known as fleet support services, these activities and services begin prior to
airplane delivery and continue throughout the operational life of the airplane. They include flight and maintenance
training, field service support, engineering services, information services and systems and technical data and
documents. The costs for fleet support are expensed as incurred and have historically been approximately 1% of total
consolidated costs of products and services.
Program Development The following chart summarizes the time horizon between go-ahead and planned initial
delivery for major Commercial Airplanes derivatives and programs.
Go-ahead and Initial Delivery
737 MAX 7 2011 2022
737 MAX 10 2017 2023
777X 2013 2023
Reflects models in development during 2021
The development schedules shown above are subject to a number of uncertainties, including changes in certification
requirements. The timing of certifications will ultimately be determined by the regulators.
Additional Considerations
The development and ongoing production of commercial aircraft is extremely complex, involving extensive coordination
and integration with suppliers and highly-skilled labor from employees and other partners. Meeting or exceeding our
performance and reliability standards, as well as those of customers and regulators, can be costly and technologically
challenging, such as the 787 production issues and associated rework. In addition, the introduction of new aircraft and
derivatives, such as the 777X and 737 MAX derivatives, involves increased risks associated with meeting development,
production and certification schedules. These challenges include increased global regulatory scrutiny of all
development aircraft in the wake of the 737 MAX accidents. As a result, our ability to deliver aircraft on time, satisfy
performance and reliability standards and achieve or maintain, as applicable, program profitability is subject to
significant risks. Factors that could result in lower margins (or a material charge if an airplane program has or is
determined to have reach-forward losses) include the following: changes to the program accounting quantity, customer
and model mix, production costs and rates, changes to price escalation factors due to changes in the inflation rate or
other economic indicators, performance or reliability issues involving completed aircraft, capital expenditures and other
costs associated with increasing or adding new production capacity, learning curve, additional change incorporation,
achieving anticipated cost reductions, the addition of regulatory requirements in connection with certification in one or
more jurisdictions, flight test and certification schedules, costs, schedule and demand for new airplanes and derivatives
and status of customer claims, supplier claims or assertions and other contractual negotiations. While we believe the
cost and revenue estimates
38
Table of Contents
incorporated in the consolidated financial statements are appropriate, the technical complexity of our airplane programs
creates financial risk as additional completion costs may become necessary or scheduled delivery dates could be
extended, which could trigger termination provisions, order cancellations or other financially significant exposure.
Defense, Space & Security
Business Environment and Trends
United States Government Defense Environment Overview
In May 2021, the U.S. government released the President’s budget request for fiscal year 2022 (FY22), which included
$715 billion in funding for the United States Department of Defense (U.S. DoD), $25 billion in funding for the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and $19 billion for the FAA. While the President’s budget request for
FY22 includes funding for a majority of Boeing’s programs, it did not include funding for F/A-18 Super Hornet, P-8
Poseidon and CH-47F Block II production aircraft. While there is continued congressional support for F/A-18 and CH-
47F Block II production aircraft for FY22, there is ongoing uncertainty with respect to these and other program-level
appropriations for FY22 and future fiscal years. These programs also continue to pursue non-U.S. sales opportunities.
In December 2021, Congress passed and the President signed the National Defense Authorization Act for FY22, which
authorizes a U.S. DoD budget $25 billion higher than the budget request. A CR, enacted on December 3, 2021,
continues funding for the federal government at FY21 appropriated levels through February 18, 2022. Congress and
the President must enact either full-year FY22 appropriations bills or an additional CR to fund government departments
and agencies beyond February 18, 2022 or a government shutdown could result, which may impact the Company’s
operations. Alternatively, Congress may continue to fund the federal government through one or more additional CRs,
however, this would continue to restrict the execution of certain program activities and delay new programs or
competitions.
Accordingly, there continues to be uncertainty with respect to program-level appropriations for the U.S. DoD and other
government agencies, including NASA, for FY22 and beyond. Future budget cuts or investment priority changes,
including changes associated with the authorizations and appropriations process, could result in reductions,
cancellations and/or delays of existing contracts or programs. Any of these impacts could have a material effect on our
results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows.
Non-U.S. Defense Environment Overview The non-U.S. market continues to be driven by complex and evolving
security challenges and the need to modernize aging equipment and inventories. BDS expects that it will continue to
have a wide range of opportunities across Asia, Europe and the Middle East given the diverse regional threats. At the
end of 2021, 33% of BDS backlog was attributable to non-U.S. customers.
Results of Operations
(Dollars in millions)
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Revenues $26,540 $26,257 $26,095 
% of total company revenues 43 % 45 % 34 %
Earnings from operations $1,544 $1,539 $2,615 
Operating margins 5.8 % 5.9 % 10.0 %
39
Table of Contents
Since our operating cycle is long-term and involves many different types of development and production contracts with
varying delivery and milestone schedules, the operating results of a particular period may not be indicative of future
operating results. In addition, depending on the customer and their funding sources, our orders might be structured as
annual follow-on contracts, or as one large multi-year order or long-term award. As a result, period-to-period
comparisons of backlog are not necessarily indicative of future workloads. The following discussions of comparative
results among periods should be viewed in this context.
Deliveries of units for new-build production aircraft, including remanufactures and modifications were as follows:
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
F/A-18 Models 21 20 23 
F-15 Models 16 4 11 
C-17 Globemaster III 1 
CH-47 Chinook (New) 15 27 13 
CH-47 Chinook (Renewed) 5 3 22 
AH-64 Apache (New) 27 19 37 
AH-64 Apache (Remanufactured) 56 52 74 
KC-46 Tanker 13 14 28 
P-8 Models 16 15 18 
C-40A 2 
Total 169 154 229 
Revenues
BDS revenues in 2021 increased by $283 million compared with 2020 primarily due to higher revenue on the KC-46A
Tanker program due to new orders for 27 aircraft received during the first quarter of 2021 and lower charges in 2021.
This was partially offset by lower revenues on rotorcraft programs, Commercial Crew and VC-25B. Cumulative contract
catch-up adjustments in 2021 were $56 million less unfavorable than the prior year, largely due to the lower charges
described below.
BDS revenues in 2020 increased by $162 million compared with 2019 reflecting higher revenues from fighter aircraft,
Space Launch System, B-52 upgrades, proprietary and MQ-25, partially offset by reduced volume in missile defense.
These net increases were offset by the unfavorable impact of cumulative contract catch-up adjustments, which were
$312 million higher than the comparable period in the prior year, largely due to the KC-46A Tanker charges during
2020.
Earnings From Operations
BDS earnings from operations in 2021 increased by $5 million compared with 2020 primarily due to less unfavorable
impacts from cumulative contract catch-up adjustments, which improved $219 million from the prior year, largely due to
lower KC-46A Tanker charges in 2021 compared to 2020 and other charges in development programs described below.
The favorable change in cumulative contract catch-up adjustments was offset primarily by lower volume and mix on
rotorcraft programs and lower equity earnings for United Launch Alliance (ULA).
During the fourth quarter of 2021, BDS increased the reach-forward loss on the KC-46A Tanker program by
$402 million primarily due to continued disruption in the factory and in the supply chain, including impacts of COVID-19,
and an increase in costs to complete the new Remote Vision System as the customer’s requirements definition has
evolved. In 2020, we recorded an additional reach-forward loss of $1,320 million on the KC-46A Tanker program
reflecting $551 million of costs associated
40
Table of Contents
with the agreement signed in April 2020 with the U.S. Air Force to develop and integrate the new Remote Vision
System, and costs for production inefficiencies including impacts of COVID-19 disruption.
During the third quarter of 2021, we increased the reach-forward loss on Commercial Crew by $185 million driven by
the delay in the second uncrewed Orbital Flight Test now anticipated in 2022 and the latest assessment of remaining
work.
During the first quarter of 2021, we increased the reach-forward loss on VC-25B by $318 million, which was largely due
to COVID-19 impacts and performance issues at a key supplier. The $168 million reach-forward loss in the first quarter
of 2020 on VC-25B was associated with engineering inefficiencies from the COVID-19 environment.
BDS earnings from operations in 2020 decreased by $1,076 million compared with 2019 primarily due to the
unfavorable impact of cumulative contract catch-up adjustments, which were $828 million higher than the prior year,
largely due to higher charges in 2020 of $1,320 million on KC-46A Tanker and $168 million on VC-25B, offset by $489
million in charges on Commercial Crew in 2019. The lower earnings in 2020 also reflect lower gains on property sales
compared to the same period in 2019. These current period decreases were partially offset by the volume increases
described above.
BDS earnings from operations includes our share of income or loss from equity method investments of $53 million,
$141 million and $128 million primarily from our ULA and non-U.S. joint ventures in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Backlog
Total backlog of $59,828 million at December 31, 2021 was $1,019 million lower than December 31, 2020 due to the
timing of awards and revenue recognized.
Additional Considerations
Our BDS business includes a variety of development programs which have complex design and technical challenges.
Many of these programs have cost-type contracting arrangements. In these cases, the associated financial risks are
primarily in reduced fees, lower profit rates or program cancellation if cost, schedule or technical performance issues
arise. Examples of these programs include Ground-based Midcourse Defense, Proprietary and Space Launch System
programs.
Some of our development programs are contracted on a fixed-price basis, and BDS customers are increasingly seeking
fixed-price proposals for new programs. Examples of significant fixed-price development programs include Commercial
Crew, KC-46A Tanker, MQ-25, T-7A Red Hawk, VC-25B, and commercial and military satellites. A number of our
ongoing fixed-price development programs have reach-forward losses. New programs could also have risk for reach-
forward loss upon contract award and during the period of contract performance. Many development programs have
highly complex designs. As technical or quality issues arise during development, we may experience schedule delays
and cost impacts, which could increase our estimated cost to perform the work or reduce our estimated price, either of
which could result in a material charge or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition. These programs are
ongoing, and while we believe the cost and fee estimates incorporated in the financial statements are appropriate, the
technical complexity of these programs creates financial risk as additional completion costs may become necessary or
scheduled delivery dates could be extended, which could trigger termination provisions, the loss of satellite in-orbit
incentive payments or other financially significant exposure. Risk remains that we may be required to record additional
reach-forward losses in future periods.
41
Table of Contents
Global Services
Business Environment and Trends
The aerospace markets we serve include parts distribution, logistics and other inventory services; maintenance,
engineering and upgrades; training and professional services; and information services. Prior to COVID-19, we had
expected the market to grow by around 3.5% annually, however, the pandemic is having a direct impact on our
commercial services business. See Overview to Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations for a discussion of the impacts of COVID-19 on the airline industry environment.
Over the long-term, as the size of the worldwide commercial airline fleet continues to grow, so does demand for
aftermarket services designed to increase efficiency and extend the economic lives of airplanes. Airlines are using data
analytics to plan flight operations and predictive maintenance to improve their productivity and efficiency. Airlines
continue to look for opportunities to reduce the size and cost of their spare parts inventory, frequently outsourcing
spares management to third parties.
The demand outlook for our government services business has remained stable in 2021. Government services market
segments are growing on pace with related fleets, but vary based on the utilization and age of the aircraft. The U.S.
government services market is the single largest individual market, comprising over 50 percent of the government
services markets served. Over the next decade, we expect U.S. growth to remain flat and non-U.S. fleets, led by Middle
East and Asia Pacific customers, to add rotorcraft and commercial derivative aircraft at the fastest rates. We expect
less than 20 percent of the worldwide fleet of military aircraft to be retired and replaced over the next ten years, driving
increased demand for services to maintain aging aircraft and enhance aircraft capability.
BGS’ major customer, the U.S. government, remains subject to the spending limits and uncertainty described on page
39, which could restrict the execution of certain program activities and delay new programs or competitions.
Industry Competitiveness Aviation services is a competitive market with many domestic and international
competitors. This market environment has resulted in intense pressures on pricing, and we expect these pressures to
continue or intensify in the coming years. Continued access to global markets remains vital to our ability to fully realize
our sales growth potential and long-term investment returns.
Results of Operations
(Dollars in millions)
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Revenues $16,328 $15,543 $18,468 
% of total company revenues 26 % 27 % 24 %
Earnings from operations $2,017 $450 $2,697 
Operating margins 12.4 % 2.9 % 14.6 %
Revenues
BGS revenues in 2021 increased by $785 million compared with 2020 due to higher commercial and government
services volume. While commercial services volume is recovering, it remains below pre-pandemic levels. The net
favorable impact of cumulative contract catch-up adjustments in 2021 was $37 million lower than the comparable
period in the prior year. We expect the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic to continue to have an adverse impact on
BGS commercial revenues in future quarters until the commercial airline industry environment fully recovers.
42
Table of Contents
BGS revenues in 2020 decreased by $2,925 million compared with 2019 due to lower commercial services revenue
driven by impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. The favorable impact of cumulative contract catch-up adjustments in
2020 was $101 million lower than the comparable period in the prior year.
Earnings From Operations
BGS earnings from operations in 2021 increased by $1,567 million compared with 2020, primarily due to charges
incurred in 2020 driven by impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic as well as higher commercial services volume in 2021,
partially offset by an inventory write-down of $220 million recognized in the fourth quarter of 2021 driven by revised cost
estimates on certain customer contracts. Charges in 2020 included $531 million of inventory write-downs, $178 million
of related impairments of distribution rights primarily driven by airlines’ decisions to retire certain aircraft, $398 million
for higher expected credit losses primarily driven by customer liquidity issues, $115 million of contract termination and
facility impairment charges, and $72 million of severance costs. The net favorable impact of cumulative contract catch-
up adjustments in 2021 was $98 million lower than the prior year.
BGS earnings from operations in 2020 decreased by $2,247 million compared with 2019, primarily due to lower
commercial services revenue as well as the 2020 earnings charges described in the previous paragraph. The favorable
impact of cumulative contract catch-up adjustments in 2020 was consistent with the prior year.
Backlog
BGS total backlog of $20,496 million at December 31, 2021 decreased by 1% from $20,632 million at December 31,
2020, primarily due to revenue recognized on contracts awarded in prior years.
Boeing Capital
Business Environment and Trends
BCC’s gross customer financing and investment portfolio at December 31, 2021 totaled $1,734 million. A substantial
portion of BCC’s portfolio is composed of customers that have less than investment-grade credit. BCC’s portfolio is also
concentrated by varying degrees across Boeing aircraft product types, most notably 717 and 747-8 aircraft.
BCC provided customer financing of $14 million during 2020 and none during 2021. While we may be required to fund
a number of new aircraft deliveries in 2021 and/or provide refinancing for existing bridge debt, we expect alternative
financing will be available at reasonable prices from broad and globally diverse sources.
Aircraft values and lease rates are impacted by the number and type of aircraft that are currently out of service.
Approximately 5,300 western-built commercial jet aircraft (20.5% of current world fleet) were parked at the end of 2021,
including both in-production and out-of-production aircraft types. Of these parked aircraft, a larger portion are expected
to be retired compared to the pre-COVID-19 period, which directly impacts the Company in terms of number of new
aircraft deliveries and financing opportunities, the ability of existing customers to meet current payment obligations and
the value of aircraft in its portfolio. We continue to work closely with our customers to mitigate the risk. At the end of
2020 and 2019, 29.4% and 8.5% of the western-built commercial jet aircraft were parked. Aircraft valuations could
decline if significant numbers of additional aircraft, particularly types with relatively few operators, are placed out of
service. See Overview to Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for
a discussion of the impacts of COVID-19 on the airline industry environment.
43
Table of Contents
Results of Operations
(Dollars in millions)
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Revenues $272 $261 $244 
Earnings from operations $106 $63 $28 
Operating margins 39 % 24 % 11 %
Revenues
BCC segment revenues consist principally of lease income from equipment under operating lease, interest income from
financing receivables and notes, and other income. BCC’s revenues in 2021 increased by $11 million compared with
2020, and revenues in 2020 increased by $17 million compared with 2019 primarily due to gains on re-lease of assets,
partially offset by portfolio run-off.
Earnings From Operations
BCC’s earnings from operations are presented net of interest expense, provision for (recovery of) losses, asset
impairment expense, depreciation on leased equipment and other operating expenses. Earnings from operations in
2021 increased by $43 million compared with 2020 primarily due to higher revenues, lower provision for losses, and
lower interest and asset impairment expenses. Earnings from operations in 2020 increased by $35 million compared
with 2019 primarily due to higher revenues, lower asset impairment expenses and lower interest expenses.
Financial Position
The following table presents selected financial data for BCC as of December 31:
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Customer financing and investment portfolio, net $1,720 $1,961 
Other assets, primarily cash and short-term investments 462 402 
Total assets $2,182 $2,363 
Other liabilities, primarily income taxes $347 $392 
Debt, including intercompany loans 1,525 1,640 
Equity 310 331 
Total liabilities and equity $2,182 $2,363 
Debt-to-equity ratio 4.9-to-1 5-to-1
BCC’s customer financing and investment portfolio at December 31, 2021 decreased from December 31, 2020,
primarily due to $241 million of note payoffs and portfolio run-off.
BCC enters into certain transactions with other Boeing segments, reflected in Unallocated items, eliminations and
other, in the form of intercompany guarantees and other subsidies that mitigate the effects of certain credit quality or
asset impairment issues on the BCC segment.
44
Table of Contents
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Cash Flow Summary
(Dollars in millions)
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Net loss ($4,290) ($11,941) ($636)
Non-cash items 7,851 10,866 2,819 
Changes in assets and liabilities (6,977) (17,335) (4,629)
Net cash used by operating activities (3,416) (18,410) (2,446)
Net cash provided/(used) by investing activities 9,324 (18,366) (1,530)
Net cash (used)/provided by financing activities (5,600) 34,955 5,739 
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (39) 85 (5)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash & cash equivalents, including restricted 269 (1,736) 1,758 
Cash & cash equivalents, including restricted, at beginning of year 7,835 9,571 7,813 
Cash & cash equivalents, including restricted, at end of year $8,104 $7,835 $9,571 
Operating Activities Net cash used by operating activities was $3.4 billion during 2021, compared with $18.4 billion
during 2020 and $2.4 billion during 2019. The reduction in cash used by operating activities in 2021 compared with
2020 is primarily driven by lower net loss and improved changes in assets and liabilities. Non-cash items in 2021
include the $3.5 billion reach-forward loss on the 787 program which was recorded as a reduction to inventory, as well
as $1.2 billion of treasury shares issued to fund Company contributions to the 401(k) plan and $0.8 billion of share-
based plans expense reflecting a one-time stock grant to most employees in lieu of 2021 salary increases. The
changes in assets and liabilities reflect the significant increase in commercial airplane inventory in 2020 driven by lower
deliveries due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the 737 MAX grounding. In 2021, inventory growth slowed as the
continued buildup of 787 aircraft caused by production issues and 777X inventory growth was partially offset by a
decrease in 737 MAX inventory following the resumption of deliveries. Compensation payments to 737 MAX customers
totaled $2.5 billion and $2.2 billion in 2021 and 2020. In the first quarter of 2021, we paid $0.7 billion consistent with the
terms of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement between Boeing and the U.S. Department of Justice. Additionally, in
2021, we received income tax refunds of $1.7 billion. Cash provided by Advances and progress billings was $2.5 billion
in 2021, as compared with Cash used by Advances and progress billings of $1.1 billion in 2020. The pause in 787
deliveries and the residual impacts of the 737 MAX grounding are expected to continue to have a significant impact on
our operating cash flows until 787 deliveries resume and 737 MAX deliveries ramp up.
The decrease in operating cash flows in 2020 compared to 2019 is primarily driven by our net loss in 2020 and
changes in assets and liabilities, partially offset by an increase in non-cash items. Non-cash items include the $6.5
billion reach-forward loss on the 777X program in 2020, which was recorded as a reduction to inventory. The year-over-
year increase in non-cash items also reflects higher inventory write-downs and higher allowances for expected credit
losses in 2020. The changes in assets and liabilities reflect increases in commercial airplane inventory due to the large
number of undelivered aircraft in 2019 resulting from the 737 MAX grounding, and in 2020 due to the 737 MAX
grounding, 787 production issues and COVID-19 impacts. Cash used by Advances and progress billings was $1.1
billion in 2020, as compared with $0.7 billion provided by Advances and progress billings in 2019. The changes in
assets and liabilities in 2020 also reflect lower accounts payable due to reductions in commercial purchases from
suppliers and lower supply chain financing. Compensation payments to 737 MAX customers totaled $2.2 billion during
2020 and $1.2 billion during 2019. The accrued liability
45
Table of Contents
for 737 MAX customer considerations at December 31, 2019 resulted in a $7.4 billion favorable change to assets and
liabilities in 2019.
Payables to suppliers who elected to participate in supply chain financing programs declined by $1.5 billion and $1.9
billion for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, and increased by $2.6 billion in 2019. Supply chain financing
is not material to our overall liquidity. The declines for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 were primarily
due to reductions in commercial purchases from suppliers. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2019
reflects a combination of higher purchases, an extension of payment terms with certain suppliers and increased
utilization of our supply chain financing programs.
Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities during 2021 was $9.3 billion, compared with cash used by
investing activities of $18.4 billion and $1.5 billion during 2020 and 2019. The increase in cash inflows in 2021
compared to 2020 is primarily due to $27.1 billion of higher net proceeds from investments. The increase in cash
outflows in 2020 compared to 2019 is primarily due to $17.4 billion of higher net contributions to investments. Net
proceeds from investments were $9.8 billion in 2021, compared with net contributions to investments of $17.3 billion in
2020 and net proceeds from investments of $0.1 billion in 2019. Capital expenditures totaled $1.0 billion in 2021,
compared with $1.3 billion in 2020 and $1.8 billion in 2019. We reduced our capital expenditures in 2021 and 2020 as
we managed our liquidity throughout the pandemic and 737 MAX grounding. We expect capital expenditures in 2022 to
be higher than in 2021.
Financing Activities Cash used by financing activities was $5.6 billion during 2021, compared with cash provided by
financing activities of $35.0 billion during 2020 and $5.7 billion in 2019. The decrease of $40.6 billion compared with
2020 primarily reflects net debt repayments in 2021 compared with net borrowings in 2020. The increase of $29.3
billion in 2020 compared with 2019 primarily reflects higher net borrowings, lower share repurchases and lower
dividend payments, which reflects the Company’s decision in March 2020 to suspend the declaration or payment of
dividends until further notice. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2021, debt repayments net of new
borrowings were $5.6 billion, primarily due to $13.8 billion of repayments of our two-year delayed draw term loan credit
agreement, partially offset by $9.8 billion of fixed rate senior notes issued in the first quarter of 2021. During the twelve
months ended December 31, 2020, new borrowings net of repayments were $36.3 billion, primarily due to $29.9 billion
of fixed rate senior notes issued in 2020 and $13.8 billion of new borrowings under a two-year delayed draw term loan
agreement entered into in the first quarter of 2020. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2019, new
borrowings net of repayments were $13.2 billion, primarily due to the issuance of $10.5 billion of fixed rate senior notes
in 2019. For further discussion see Liquidity Matters in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
At December 31, 2021 and 2020 debt balances totaled $58.1 billion and $63.6 billion, of which $1.3 billion and $1.7
billion were classified as short-term. This included $1.5 billion and $1.6 billion of debt attributable to BCC at
December 31, 2021 and 2020, of which $0.3 billion and $0.9 billion were classified as short-term.
During the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we did not repurchase any shares through our open market
share repurchase program compared to repurchases of 6.9 million shares in 2019 totaling $2.7 billion. Share
repurchases under this plan have been suspended since April 2019. In March 2020, the Board of Directors terminated
its prior authorization to repurchase shares of the Company's outstanding common stock. We had 0.3 million, 0.6
million and 0.6 million shares transferred to us from employee tax withholdings in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
During the year ended December 31, 2021, we paid no dividends, compared with $1.2 billion and $4.6 billion in 2020
and 2019. In March 2020, the Company announced that our dividend will be suspended until further notice.
46
Table of Contents
Capital Resources The impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, 787 production issues and associated rework, and
residual impacts of the 737 MAX grounding are having a significant negative impact on our liquidity and ongoing
operations and creating significant uncertainty. We have and are continuing to take significant actions to manage and
preserve our liquidity. For further discussion see Liquidity Matters in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
The following table summarizes certain cash requirements for known contractual and other obligations as of
December 31, 2021, and the estimated timing thereof. See Note 12 for future operating lease payments.
(Dollars in millions) Current Long-term Total
Long-term debt (including current portion) $1,300 $57,389 $58,689 
Interest on debt 2,365 33,658 36,023 
Pension and other postretirement 594 4,100 4,694 
Purchase obligations 53,041 53,702 106,743 
737 MAX customer concessions and consideration 800 200 1,000 
For further discussion, see Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
We expect to be able to fund our cash requirements through cash and short-term investments and cash provided by
operations, as well as continued access to capital markets. At December 31, 2021, we had $8.1 billion of cash, $8.2
billion of short-term investments, and $14.7 billion of unused borrowing capacity on revolving credit line agreements.
We anticipate that these revolving credit lines will remain undrawn and primarily serve as backup liquidity to support our
general corporate borrowing needs. Of the $14.7 billion of unused borrowing capacity, $6.3 billion expires in October
2022, $5.3 billion expires in March 2023 and $3.2 billion expires in October 2024.
Our debt balances have increased significantly since 2019, and we are continuing to actively manage our liquidity. In
2021, we repaid $13.8 billion that was outstanding under our two-year delayed draw term loan credit agreement that
had a final maturity date of February 6, 2022.
Our increased debt balance resulted in downgrades to our credit ratings in 2020, and our ratings remained unchanged
in 2021. We expect to be able to access capital markets when we require additional funding in order to pay off existing
debt, address further impacts to our business related to market developments, fund outstanding financing commitments
or meet other business requirements. A number of factors could cause us to incur increased borrowing costs and to
have greater difficulty accessing public and private markets for debt. These factors include disruptions or declines in
the global capital markets and/or a decline in our financial performance, outlook or credit ratings, including impacts
described above related to the COVID-19 pandemic and/or associated changes in demand for our products and
services. These risks will be particularly acute if we are subject to further credit rating downgrades. The occurrence of
any or all of these events may adversely affect our ability to fund our operations and financing or contractual
commitments.
Any future borrowings may affect our credit ratings and are subject to various debt covenants. At December 31, 2021,
we were in compliance with the covenants for our debt and credit facilities. The most restrictive covenants include a
limitation on mortgage debt and sale and leaseback transactions as a percentage of consolidated net tangible assets
(as defined in the credit agreements) and a limitation on consolidated debt as a percentage of total capital (as defined
in the credit agreements). When considering debt covenants, we continue to have substantial borrowing capacity.(1)
(1)    
47
Table of Contents
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits Pension cash requirements are based on an estimate of our minimum
funding requirements, pursuant to Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) regulations, although we may
make additional discretionary contributions. Estimates of other postretirement benefits are based on both our estimated
future benefit payments and the estimated contributions to plans that are funded through trusts.
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, our pension plans were $7.8 billion and $13.7 billion underfunded as measured under
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States of America (GAAP). On an ERISA basis our plans are
more than 100% funded at December 31, 2021. We do not expect to make significant contributions to our pension
plans in 2022. We may be required to make higher contributions to our pension plans in future years.
In the fourth quarter of 2020, we contributed $3 billion of our common stock to our pension fund. In the fourth quarter of
2020, we also began using our common stock in lieu of cash to fund Company contributions to our 401(k) plans for the
foreseeable future. Under this approach, common stock is contributed to our 401(k) plans following each pay period.
We expect this measure to further enable the Company to conserve cash. We have retained an independent fiduciary
to manage and liquidate stock contributed to these plans at its discretion.
Purchase Obligations Purchase obligations represent contractual agreements to purchase goods or services that are
legally binding; specify a fixed, minimum or range of quantities; specify a fixed, minimum, variable or indexed price
provision; and specify approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations include amounts recorded as well as
amounts that are not recorded on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.
Purchase obligations not recorded on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position include agreements for
inventory procurement, tooling costs, electricity and natural gas contracts, property, plant and equipment, customer
financing equipment and other miscellaneous production related obligations. The most significant obligation relates to
inventory procurement contracts. We have entered into certain significant inventory procurement contracts that specify
determinable prices and quantities, and long-term delivery timeframes. In addition, we purchase raw materials on
behalf of our suppliers. These agreements require suppliers and vendors to be prepared to build and deliver items in
sufficient time to meet our production schedules. The need for such arrangements with suppliers and vendors arises
from the extended production planning horizon for many of our products. A significant portion of these inventory
commitments is supported by firm contracts with customers and/or has historically resulted in settlement through
reimbursement from customers for penalty payments to the supplier should the customer not take delivery. These
amounts are also included in our forecasts of costs for program and contract accounting. Some inventory procurement
contracts may include escalation adjustments. In these limited cases, we have included our best estimate of the effect
of the escalation adjustment in the amounts disclosed in the table above.
Purchase obligations recorded on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position primarily include accounts payable
and certain other current and long-term liabilities including accrued compensation.
We have entered into various industrial participation agreements with certain customers outside of the U.S. to facilitate
economic flow back and/or technology or skills transfer to their businesses or government agencies as the result of
their procurement of goods and/or services from us. These commitments may be satisfied by our local operations
there, placement of direct work or vendor orders for supplies, opportunities to bid on supply contracts, transfer of
technology or other forms of assistance. However, in certain cases, our commitments may be satisfied through other
parties (such as our vendors) who purchase supplies from our non-U.S. customers. In certain cases, penalties could be
imposed if we do not meet our industrial participation commitments. During 2021, we incurred no such penalties. As of
December 31, 2021, we have outstanding industrial participation agreements
48
Table of Contents
totaling $25.5 billion that extend through 2034. Purchase order commitments associated with industrial participation
agreements are included in purchase obligations in the table above. To be eligible for such a purchase order
commitment from us, a non-U.S. supplier must have sufficient capability to meet our requirements and must be
competitive in cost, quality and schedule.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We are a party to certain off-balance sheet arrangements including certain
guarantees. For discussion of these arrangements, see Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Commercial Commitments
The following table summarizes our commercial commitments outstanding as of December 31, 2021.
(Dollars in millions)Total Amounts
Committed/Maximum
Amount of LossLess than
1 year1-3
years4-5
yearsAfter 5
years
Standby letters of credit and surety bonds $3,634 $1,969 $1,451 $60 $154 
Commercial aircraft financing commitments 12,905 2,034 6,094 2,904 1,873 
Total commercial commitments $16,539 $4,003 $7,545 $2,964 $2,027 
Commercial aircraft financing commitments include commitments to provide financing related to aircraft on order, under
option for deliveries or proposed as part of sales campaigns or refinancing with respect to delivered aircraft, based on
estimated earliest potential funding dates. Customer financing commitments totaled $12.9 billion and $11.5 billion at
December 31, 2021 and 2020. The increase relates to new financing commitments. We anticipate that we will not be
required to fund a significant portion of our financing commitments as we continue to work with third party financiers to
provide alternative financing to customers. Historically, we have not been required to fund significant amounts of
outstanding commitments. However, there can be no assurances that we will not be required to fund greater amounts
than historically required. See Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Contingent Obligations
We have significant contingent obligations that arise in the ordinary course of business, which include the following:
Legal Various legal proceedings, claims and investigations are pending against us. Legal contingencies are discussed
in Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Environmental Remediation We are involved with various environmental remediation activities and have recorded a
liability of $605 million at December 31, 2021. For additional information, see Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements.
Non-GAAP Measures
Core Operating Earnings, Core Operating Margin and Core Earnings Per Share
Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP which we supplement with certain non-
GAAP financial information. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the
related GAAP measures, and other companies may define such measures differently. We encourage investors to
review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial
measure. Core operating earnings, core operating margin and core earnings per share exclude the FAS/CAS service
cost adjustment. The FAS/
49
Table of Contents
CAS service cost adjustment represents the difference between the Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) pension and
postretirement service costs calculated under GAAP and costs allocated to the business segments. Core earnings per
share excludes both the FAS/CAS service cost adjustment and non-operating pension and postretirement expenses.
Non-operating pension and postretirement expenses represent the components of net periodic benefit costs other than
service cost. Pension costs, comprising service and prior service costs computed in accordance with GAAP are
allocated to BCA and certain BGS businesses supporting commercial customers. Pension costs allocated to BDS and
BGS businesses supporting government customers are computed in accordance with U.S. Government Cost
Accounting Standards (CAS), which employ different actuarial assumptions and accounting conventions than GAAP.
CAS costs are allocable to government contracts. Other postretirement benefit costs are allocated to all business
segments based on CAS, which is generally based on benefits paid.
The Pension FAS/CAS service cost adjustments recognized in Loss from operations were benefits of $882 million in
2021, $1,024 million in 2020 and $1,071 million in 2019. The lower benefits in 2021 were primarily due to reductions in
allocated pension cost year over year. The non-operating pension expense included in Other income, net was a benefit
of $528 million in 2021, $340 million in 2020 and $374 million in 2019. The higher benefits in 2021 were primarily due to
lower interest cost and higher expected return on plan assets, partially offset by higher amortization of actuarial losses
and higher settlement charges. The benefits in 2020 and 2019 reflect expected returns in excess of interest cost and
amortization of actuarial losses.
For further discussion of pension and other postretirement costs, see the Management’s Discussion and Analysis on
page 29 of this Form 10-K and see Note 22 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Management uses core
operating earnings, core operating margin and core earnings per share for purposes of evaluating and forecasting
underlying business performance. Management believes these core earnings measures provide investors additional
insights into operational performance as unallocated pension and other postretirement benefit cost primarily represent
costs driven by market factors and costs not allocable to U.S. government contracts.
50
Table of Contents
Reconciliation of GAAP Measures to Non-GAAP Measures
The table below reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures of core operating earnings, core operating margin and
core earnings per share with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures of earnings from operations,
operating margins and diluted earnings per share.
(Dollars in millions, except per share data)
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Revenues $62,286 $58,158 $76,559 
Loss from operations, as reported ($2,902) ($12,767) ($1,975)
Operating margins (4.7)% (22.0)% (2.6)%
Pension FAS/CAS service cost adjustment ($882) ($1,024) ($1,071)
Postretirement FAS/CAS service cost adjustment (291) (359) (344)
FAS/CAS service cost adjustment ($1,173) ($1,383) ($1,415)
Core operating loss (non-GAAP) ($4,075) ($14,150) ($3,390)
Core operating margins (non-GAAP) (6.5)% (24.3)% (4.4)%
Diluted loss per share, as reported ($7.15) ($20.88) ($1.12)
Pension FAS/CAS service cost adjustment (1.50) (1.80) (1.89)
Postretirement FAS/CAS service cost adjustment (0.49) (0.63) (0.61)
Non-operating pension expense (0.91) (0.60) (0.66)
Non-operating postretirement expense 0.03 0.19 
Provision for deferred income taxes on adjustments 0.61 0.63 0.62 
Core loss per share (non-GAAP) ($9.44) ($23.25) ($3.47)
Weighted average diluted shares (in millions) 588.0 569.0 566.0 
FAS/CAS service cost adjustment represents the difference between the FAS pension and postretirement service
costs calculated under GAAP and costs allocated to the business segments. This adjustment is excluded from
Core operating loss (non-GAAP).
Non-operating pension and postretirement expenses represent the components of net periodic benefit costs other
than service cost. These expenses are included in Other income, net and are excluded from Core loss per share
(non-GAAP).
The income tax impact is calculated using the U.S. corporate statutory tax rate.(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(2)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
51
Table of Contents
Critical Accounting Policies & Estimates
Accounting for Long-term Contracts
Substantially all contracts at BDS and certain contracts at BGS are long-term contracts. Our long-term contracts
typically represent a single distinct performance obligation due to the highly interdependent and interrelated nature of
the underlying goods and/or services and the significant service of integration that we provide.
Accounting for long-term contracts involves a judgmental process of estimating the total sales, costs, and profit for each
performance obligation. Cost of sales is recognized as incurred, and revenue is determined by adding a proportionate
amount of the estimated profit to the amount reported as cost of sales.
Due to the size, duration and nature of many of our long-term contracts, the estimation of total sales and costs through
completion is complicated and subject to many variables. Total sales estimates are based on negotiated contract prices
and quantities, modified by our assumptions regarding contract options, change orders, incentive and award provisions
associated with technical performance, and price adjustment clauses (such as inflation or index-based clauses). The
majority of these long-term contracts are with the U.S. government where the price is generally based on estimated
cost to produce the product or service plus profit. Federal Acquisition Regulations provide guidance on the types of cost
that will be reimbursed in establishing contract price. Total cost estimates are largely based on negotiated or estimated
purchase contract terms, historical performance trends, business base and other economic projections. Factors that
influence these estimates include inflationary trends, technical and schedule risk, internal and subcontractor
performance trends, business volume assumptions, COVID-19 disruptions, asset utilization and anticipated labor
agreements.
Revenue and cost estimates for all significant long-term contract performance obligations are reviewed and reassessed
quarterly. Changes in these estimates could result in recognition of cumulative catch-up adjustments to the
performance obligation’s inception to date revenues, cost of sales and profit in the period in which such changes are
made. Changes in revenue and cost estimates could also result in a reach-forward loss or an adjustment to a reach-
forward loss which would be recorded immediately in earnings. For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and
2019, net unfavorable cumulative catch-up adjustments across all long-term contracts increased loss from operations
by $880 million, $942 million and $111 million, respectively. The cumulative catch-up adjustments in 2021 were
primarily due to losses recognized on the KC-46A Tanker, VC-25B and Commercial Crew programs. These are all
fixed-price development programs, and there is ongoing risk that similar losses may have to be recognized in future
periods on these and/or other programs.
Due to the significance of judgment in the estimation process described above, it is likely that materially different
earnings could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change.
Changes in underlying assumptions/estimates, supplier performance, or circumstances may adversely or positively
affect financial performance in future periods. If the combined gross margins for our profitable long-term contracts had
been estimated to be higher or lower by 1% during 2021, it would have increased or decreased pre-tax income for the
year by approximately $300 million.
Program Accounting
Program accounting requires the demonstrated ability to reliably estimate revenues, costs and gross profit margin for
the defined program accounting quantity. A program consists of the estimated number of units (accounting quantity) of
a product to be produced in a continuing, long-term production effort for delivery under existing and anticipated
contracts. The determination of the accounting quantity is limited by the ability to make reasonably dependable
estimates.
52
Table of Contents
Factors that must be estimated include program accounting quantity, sales price, labor and employee benefit costs,
material costs, procured part costs, major component costs, overhead costs, program tooling and other non-recurring
costs, and warranty costs. Estimation of the accounting quantity for each program takes into account several factors
that are indicative of the demand for the particular program, such as firm orders, letters of intent from prospective
customers and market studies. Total estimated program sales are determined by estimating the model mix and sales
price for all unsold units within the accounting quantity, added together with the sales prices for all undelivered units
under contract. The sales prices for all undelivered units within the accounting quantity include an escalation
adjustment for inflation that is updated quarterly. Cost estimates are based largely on negotiated and anticipated
contracts with suppliers, historical performance trends, and business base and other economic projections. Factors that
influence these estimates include production rates, internal and subcontractor performance trends, customer and/or
supplier claims or assertions, asset utilization, anticipated labor agreements, COVID-19 disruptions, and inflationary or
deflationary trends.
To ensure reliability in our estimates, we employ a rigorous estimating process that is reviewed and updated on a
quarterly basis. This includes reassessing the accounting quantity. Changes in estimates of program gross profit
margins are normally recognized on a prospective basis; however, when estimated costs to complete a program plus
costs already included in inventory exceed estimated revenues from the program, a loss is recorded in the current
period. Reductions to the estimated loss are included in the gross profit margin for undelivered units in the accounting
quantity whereas increases to the estimated loss are recorded as an earnings charge in the period in which the loss is
determined.
The 747, 767 and 777X programs have near break-even margins, and the 787 program has zero margin at December
31, 2021. Adverse changes to the revenue and/or cost estimates for these programs could result in additional earnings
charges in future periods.
777X Program During the fourth quarter of 2020, we revised the estimated first delivery date of the 777X to late 2023
and recorded a $6.5 billion reach-forward loss on the 777X program. The revised schedule and reach-forward loss
reflected a number of factors, including an updated assessment of global certification requirements informed by
continued discussions with regulators and a management decision in the fourth quarter of 2020 to make modifications
to the aircraft’s design, an updated assessment of COVID-19 impacts on market demand and discussions with our
customers with respect to aircraft delivery timing. These factors resulted in adjustments to production rates and the
program accounting quantity, increased change incorporation costs, and associated customer and supply chain
impacts. The initial accounting quantity of 350 airplanes established in the fourth quarter of 2020 consists of 777X
passenger airplanes and remained unchanged during 2021.
We are working towards reaching TIA which will enable us to begin FAA certification flight testing. The timing of TIA and
certification will ultimately be determined by the regulators, and further determinations with respect to anticipated
certification requirements could result in additional delays in entry into service and/or additional cost increases.
We continue to anticipate that the first 777X delivery will occur in late 2023. The 777X program has near break-even
gross margins at December 31, 2021. The level of profitability on the 777X program will be subject to a number of
factors. These factors include continued market uncertainty, the impacts of COVID-19 on our production system as well
as impacts on our supply chain and customers, customer negotiations, further production rate adjustments for the 777X
or other commercial aircraft programs, contraction of the accounting quantity and potential risks associated with the
testing program and the timing of aircraft certification. One or more of these factors could result in additional reach-
forward losses on the 777X program in future periods, which may be material.
53
Table of Contents
787 Program The 787 program’s production issues and delivery pause result in significant uncertainties regarding the
revenue and cost estimates for the 787 program. Deliveries have remained paused since May 2021. During the fourth
quarter of 2021, we recorded a loss of $3.5 billion on the program primarily due to rework driving longer delivery delays
than were previously expected and associated customer considerations. The estimate of customer considerations is
based on a number of factors, including our current assumptions regarding timing of FAA approval enabling resumption
of deliveries, estimated timing of completion of inspections and rework to enable deliveries in future periods, estimated
timing of production rate increases as well as customer and market assessments. We continue to conduct inspections
and rework and engage in detailed discussions with the FAA regarding required actions for resuming delivery of the
787. Our program revenue and cost estimates reflect the assumption that production rates will remain very low until
deliveries resume, gradually returning to 5 per month over time. We have also assumed lower forecasted revenues due
to delayed deliveries. Our program assumptions reflect our current best estimate. However, if the program experiences
further delivery delays or other factors such as additional inspections or rework that result in lower revenue or higher
cost estimates, we could record additional losses in future periods, which may be material.
Goodwill Impairments
We test goodwill for impairment by performing a qualitative assessment or quantitative test. If we choose to perform a
qualitative assessment, we evaluate economic, industry and company-specific factors as an initial step in assessing the
fair value of the reporting unit. If we determine it is more likely than not that the carrying value of the net assets is more
than the fair value of the reporting unit, then a quantitative test is performed; otherwise, no further testing is required.
For reporting units where the quantitative test is used, we compare the carrying value of net assets to the estimated fair
value of the reporting unit. If the fair value is determined to be less than carrying value, the shortfall up to the carrying
value of the goodwill represents the amount of goodwill impairment.
We generally estimate the fair values of our reporting units using a combination of discounted cash flows and market-
based valuation methodologies such as comparable public company trading values. Forecasts of future cash flows are
based on our best estimate of future sales, operating costs and changes in working capital. These forecasts reflect
existing firm orders, expected future orders, expected production rates and delivery profiles, contracts with suppliers,
labor agreements and general market conditions. Changes in these forecasts could significantly change the amount of
impairment recorded, if any. The cash flow forecasts are adjusted by an appropriate discount rate derived from our
market capitalization plus a suitable control premium at the date of evaluation. Therefore, changes in the stock price
may also affect the amount of impairment recorded, if any.
We completed our annual assessment of goodwill as of April 1, 2021 and determined that there was no impairment of
goodwill. As of December 31, 2021, we estimated that the fair value of each reporting unit significantly exceeded its
corresponding carrying value. Changes in our forecasts, discount rates or decreases in the value of our common stock
could cause book values to exceed their fair values which may result in goodwill impairment charges in future periods.
Pension Plans
Many of our employees have earned benefits under defined benefit pension plans. Nonunion and the majority of union
employees that had participated in defined benefit pension plans transitioned to a company-funded defined contribution
retirement savings plan in 2016. Additional union employees transitioned to company-funded defined contribution
retirement savings plans effective January 1, 2019. Accounting rules require an annual measurement of our projected
obligation and plan assets. These measurements are based upon several assumptions, including the discount rate and
the expected long-term rate of asset return. Future changes in assumptions or differences between actual and
expected
54
Table of Contents
outcomes can significantly affect our future annual expense, projected benefit obligation and Shareholders’ equity.
The projected benefit obligation is sensitive to discount rates. The projected benefit obligation would decrease by
$2,240 million or increase by $2,530 million if the discount rate increased or decreased by 25 basis points. A 25 basis
point change in the discount rate would not have a significant impact on pension cost. However, net periodic pension
cost is sensitive to changes in the expected long-term rate of asset return. A decrease or increase of 25 basis points in
the expected long-term rate of asset return would have increased or decreased 2021 net periodic pension cost by $155
million. See Note 16 of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which includes the discount rate and
expected long-term rate of asset return assumptions for the last three years.
Deferred Income Taxes – Valuation Allowance
The Company has deferred income tax assets of $11,258 million at December 31, 2021 that can be used in future
years to offset taxable income and reduce income taxes payable. The Company has deferred income tax liabilities of
$8,976 million at December 31, 2021 that will partially offset deferred income tax assets and result in higher taxable
income in future years and increase income taxes payable. Tax law determines whether future reversals of temporary
differences will result in taxable and deductible amounts that offset each other in future years. The particular years in
which temporary differences result in taxable or deductible amounts generally are determined by the timing of the
recovery of the related asset or settlement of the related liability.
On a quarterly basis, we assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets against future
sources of taxable income and reduce the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets by recording a valuation allowance
if, based on the available evidence, it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than 50%) that all or a
portion of such assets will not be realized.
This assessment takes into account both positive and negative evidence. A recent history of financial reporting losses is
heavily weighted as a source of objectively verifiable negative evidence. Due to our recent history of losses, we
determined we could not include future projected earnings in our analysis. Rather, we use systematic and logical
methods to estimate when deferred tax liabilities will reverse and generate taxable income and when deferred tax
assets will reverse and generate tax deductions. The selection of methodologies and assessment of when temporary
differences will result in taxable or deductible amounts involves significant management judgment and is inherently
complex and subjective. We believe that the methodologies we use are reasonable and can be replicated on a
consistent basis in future periods.
Deferred tax liabilities represent the assumed source of future taxable income and the majority are assumed to
generate taxable amounts during the next five years. Deferred tax assets include amounts related to pension and other
postretirement benefits that are assumed to generate significant deductible amounts beyond five years. The
Company’s valuation allowance of $2,423 million at December 31, 2021 primarily relates to pension and other
postretirement benefit obligation deferred tax assets that are assumed to reverse beyond the period in which reversals
of deferred tax liabilities are assumed to occur. During 2021, the Company decreased the valuation allowance by $671
primarily due to favorable pension remeasurement. Until the Company generates sustained levels of profitability,
additional valuation allowances may have to be recorded with corresponding adverse impacts on earnings and/or other
comprehensive income.
For additional information regarding income taxes, see Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
55
Table of Contents
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
Interest Rate Risk
We have financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk, principally fixed- and floating-rate debt obligations,
and customer financing assets and liabilities. The investors in our fixed-rate debt obligations do not generally have the
right to demand we pay off these obligations prior to maturity. Therefore, exposure to interest rate risk is not believed to
be material for our fixed-rate debt. In 2021, we repaid the $13.8 billion outstanding under our two-year floating-rate
delayed draw term loan credit agreement. As a result, as of December 31, 2021, we do not have any significant
floating-rate debt obligations. Historically, we have not experienced material gains or losses on our customer financing
assets and liabilities due to interest rate changes.
Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk
We are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk relating to receipts from customers and payments to suppliers in
foreign currencies. We use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the price risk associated with firmly committed
and forecasted foreign denominated payments and receipts related to our ongoing business. Foreign currency forward
contracts are sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. At December 31, 2021, a 10% increase or
decrease in the exchange rate in our portfolio of foreign currency contracts would have increased or decreased our
unrealized losses by $241 million. Consistent with the use of these contracts to neutralize the effect of exchange rate
fluctuations, such unrealized losses or gains would be offset by corresponding gains or losses, respectively, in the
remeasurement of the underlying transactions being hedged. When taken together, these forward currency contracts
and the offsetting underlying commitments do not create material market risk.
Commodity Price Risk
We are subject to commodity price risk relating to commodity purchase contracts for items used in production that are
subject to changes in the market price. We use commodity swaps and commodity purchase contracts to hedge against
these potentially unfavorable price changes. Our commodity purchase contracts and derivatives are both sensitive to
changes in the market price. At December 31, 2021, a 10% increase or decrease in the market price in our commodity
derivatives would have increased or decreased our unrealized losses by $46 million. Consistent with the use of these
contracts to neutralize the effect of market price fluctuations, such unrealized losses or gains would be offset by
corresponding gains or losses, respectively, in the remeasurement of the underlying transactions being hedged. When
taken together, these commodity purchase contracts and the offsetting swaps do not create material market risk.
56
Table of Contents
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
Index to the Consolidated Financial Statements
 Page
Consolidated Statements of Operations 58
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 59
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 60
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 61
Consolidated Statements of Equity 62
Summary of Business Segment Data 63
Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 64
Note 2 - Goodwill and Acquired Intangibles 77
Note 3 - Earnings Per Share 78
Note 4 - Income Taxes 80
Note 5 - Accounts Receivable 84
Note 6 - Allowance for Losses on Financial Assets 84
Note 7 - Inventories 85
Note 8 - Contracts with Customers 86
Note 9 - Customer Financing 87
Note 10 - Property, Plant and Equipment 89
Note 11 - Investments 90
Note 12 - Leases 90
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 92
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 97
Note 15 - Debt 98
Note 16 - Postretirement Plans 99
Note 17 - Share-Based Compensation and Other Compensation Arrangements 108
Note 18 - Shareholders’ Equity 112
Note 19 - Derivative Financial Instruments 113
Note 20 - Fair Value Measurements 115
Note 21 - Legal Proceedings 117
Note 22 - Segment and Revenue Information 118
Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 124
57
Table of Contents
The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Operations
(Dollars in millions, except per share data)    
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Sales of products $51,386 $47,142 $66,094 
Sales of services 10,900 11,016 10,465 
Total revenues 62,286 58,158 76,559 
Cost of products (49,954) (54,568) (62,877)
Cost of services (9,283) (9,232) (9,154)
Boeing Capital interest expense (32) (43) (62)
Total costs and expenses (59,269) (63,843) (72,093)
3,017 (5,685) 4,466 
Income/(loss) from operating investments, net 210 9 (4)
General and administrative expense (4,157) (4,817) (3,909)
Research and development expense, net (2,249) (2,476) (3,219)
Gain on dispositions, net 277 202 691 
Loss from operations (2,902) (12,767) (1,975)
Other income, net 551 447 438 
Interest and debt expense (2,682) (2,156) (722)
Loss before income taxes (5,033) (14,476) (2,259)
Income tax benefit 743 2,535 1,623 
Net loss (4,290) (11,941) (636)
Less: net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (88) (68)
Net loss attributable to Boeing Shareholders ($4,202) ($11,873) ($636)
Basic loss per share ($7.15) ($20.88) ($1.12)
Diluted loss per share ($7.15) ($20.88) ($1.12)
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 64 – 123.
58
Table of Contents
The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
(Dollars in millions)
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 
Net loss ($4,290) ($11,941) ($636)
Other comprehensive income/(loss), net of tax:
Currency translation adjustments (75) 98 (27)
Unrealized gain on certain investments, net of tax of $0, $0 and $0 1 
Derivative instruments:
Unrealized gain/(loss) arising during period, net of tax of ($16), ($4) and
$13 55 14 (48)
Reclassification adjustment for (gain)/loss included in net earnings, net of
tax of $2, ($7) and ($7) (6) 27 26 
Total unrealized gain/(loss) on derivative instruments, net of tax 49 41 (22)
Defined benefit pension plans & other postretirement benefits:
Net actuarial gain/(loss) arising during the period, net of tax of ($32), $111
and $405 4,262 (1,956) (1,413)
Amortization of actuarial losses included in net periodic pension cost, net of
tax of ($8), ($52) and ($133) 1,155 917 464 
Settlements included in net income, net of tax of ($2), $0 and $0 191 5 
Amortization of prior service credits included in net periodic pension cost,
net of tax of $1, $6 and $25 (114) (112) (89)
Prior service cost/(credit) arising during the period, net of tax of $0, ($2)
and $0 27 (1)
Pension and postretirement benefit related to our equity method
investments, net of tax of ($2), $0 and ($5) 6 17 
Total defined benefit pension plans & other postretirement benefits, net of tax 5,500 (1,119) (1,022)
Other comprehensive income/(loss), net of tax 5,474 (980) (1,070)
Comprehensive loss related to noncontrolling interests (41)
Comprehensive income/(loss), net of tax 1,184 (12,921) (1,747)
Less: Comprehensive loss related to noncontrolling interest (88) (68) (41)
Comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to Boeing Shareholders, net of tax $1,272 ($12,853) ($1,706)
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 64 – 123.
59
Table of Contents
The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position
(Dollars in millions, except per share data)   
December 31, 2021 2020
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents $8,052 $7,752 
Short-term and other investments 8,192 17,838 
Accounts receivable, net 2,641 1,955 
Unbilled receivables, net 8,620 7,995 
Current portion of customer financing, net 117 101 
Inventories 78,823 81,715 
Other current assets, net 2,221 4,286 
Total current assets 108,666 121,642 
Customer financing, net 1,695 1,936 
Property, plant and equipment, net 10,918 11,820 
Goodwill 8,068 8,081 
Acquired intangible assets, net 2,562 2,843 
Deferred income taxes 77 86 
Investments 975 1,016 
Other assets, net of accumulated amortization of $975 and $729 5,591 4,712 
Total assets $138,552 $152,136 
Liabilities and equity
Accounts payable $9,261 $12,928 
Accrued liabilities 18,455 22,171 
Advances and progress billings 52,980 50,488 
Short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt 1,296 1,693 
Total current liabilities 81,992 87,280 
Deferred income taxes 218 1,010 
Accrued retiree health care 3,528 4,137 
Accrued pension plan liability, net 9,104 14,408 
Other long-term liabilities 1,750 1,486 
Long-term debt 56,806 61,890 
Total liabilities 153,398 170,211 
Shareholders’ equity:
Common stock, par value $5.00 – 1,200,000,000 shares authorized; 1,012,261,159
shares issued 5,061 5,061 
Additional paid-in capital 9,052 7,787 
Treasury stock, at cost (51,861) (52,641)
Retained earnings 34,408 38,610 
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (11,659) (17,133)
Total shareholders’ deficit (14,999) (18,316)
Noncontrolling interests 153 241 
Total equity (14,846) (18,075)
Total liabilities and equity $138,552 $152,136 
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 64 – 123.
60
Table of Contents
The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(Dollars in millions)    
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Cash flows – operating activities:
Net loss ($4,290) ($11,941) ($636)
Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash used by operating activities:
Non-cash items –
Share-based plans expense 833 250 212 
Treasury shares issued for 401(k) contribution 1,233 195 
Depreciation and amortization 2,144 2,246 2,271 
Investment/asset impairment charges, net 98 410 443 
Customer financing valuation adjustments 12 250 
Gain on dispositions, net (277) (202) (691)
787 and 777X reach-forward losses 3,460 6,493 
Other charges and credits, net 360 1,462 334 
Changes in assets and liabilities –
Accounts receivable (713) 909 603 
Unbilled receivables (586) 919 982 
Advances and progress billings 2,505 (1,060) 737 
Inventories (1,127) (11,002) (12,391)
Other current assets 345 372 (682)
Accounts payable (3,783) (5,363) 1,600 
Accrued liabilities (3,687) 1,074 7,781 
Income taxes receivable, payable and deferred 733 (2,576) (2,476)
Other long-term liabilities (206) (222) (621)
Pension and other postretirement plans (972) (794) (777)
Customer financing, net 210 173 419 
Other 304 235 196 
Net cash used by operating activities (3,416) (18,410) (2,446)
Cash flows – investing activities:
Payments to acquire property, plant and equipment (980) (1,303) (1,834)
Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment 529 296 334 
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired (6) (455)
Proceeds from dispositions 464 
Contributions to investments (35,713) (37,616) (1,658)
Proceeds from investments 45,489 20,275 1,759 
Purchase of distribution rights (127)
Other 5 (18) (13)
Net cash provided/(used) by investing activities 9,324 (18,366) (1,530)
Cash flows – financing activities:
New borrowings 9,795 47,248 25,389 
Debt repayments (15,371) (10,998) (12,171)
Contributions from noncontrolling interests 7 
Stock options exercised 42 36 58 
Employee taxes on certain share-based payment arrangements (66) (173) (248)
Common shares repurchased (2,651)
Dividends paid (1,158) (4,630)
Other (15)
Net cash (used)/provided by financing activities (5,600) 34,955 5,739 
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (39) 85 (5)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash & cash equivalents, including restricted 269 (1,736) 1,758 
Cash & cash equivalents, including restricted, at beginning of year 7,835 9,571 7,813 
Cash & cash equivalents, including restricted, at end of year 8,104 7,835 9,571 
Less restricted cash & cash equivalents, included in Investments 52 83 86 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $8,052 $7,752 $9,485 
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 64 – 123.
61
Table of Contents
The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Equity
 Boeing shareholders   
(Dollars in millions, except per share data)Common
StockAdditional
Paid-In
CapitalTreasury
StockRetained
EarningsAccumulated
Other
Comprehensive
LossNon-
controlling
Interest Total
Balance at January 1, 2019 $5,061 $6,768 ($52,348)$55,941 ($15,083) $71 $410 
Net loss (636) (41) (677)
Other comprehensive loss, net of tax of $298 (1,070) (1,070)
Share-based compensation and related dividend
equivalents245 (33) 212 
Treasury shares issued for stock options exercised, net (47) 104 57 
Treasury shares issued for other share-based plans, net (221) (19) (240)
Common shares repurchased (2,651) (2,651)
Cash dividends declared ($8.22 per share) (4,628) (4,628)
Changes in noncontrolling interests 287 287 
Balance at December 31, 2019 $5,061 $6,745 ($54,914)$50,644 ($16,153) $317 ($8,300)
Impact of ASU 2016-13 (162) (162)
Balance at January 1, 2020 $5,061 $6,745 ($54,914)$50,482 ($16,153) $317 ($8,462)
Net loss (11,873) (68)(11,941)
Other comprehensive loss, net of tax of $52 (980) (980)
Share-based compensation 250 250 
Treasury shares issued for stock options exercised, net (26) 63 37 
Treasury shares issued for other share-based plans, net (214) 47 (167)
Treasury shares contributed to pension plans 952 2,048 3,000 
Treasury shares issued for 401(k) contribution 80 115 195 
Changes in noncontrolling interests (8) (8)
Other 1 1 
Balance at December 31, 2020 $5,061 $7,787 ($52,641)$38,610 ($17,133) $241 ($18,075)
Net loss (4,202) (88) (4,290)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax of ($57) 5,474 5,474 
Share-based compensation 833 833 
Treasury shares issued for stock options exercised,
net(28) 70 42 
Treasury shares issued for other share-based plans,
net(98) 35 (63)
Treasury shares issued for 401(k) contribution 558 675 1,233 
Balance at December 31, 2021 $5,061 $9,052 ($51,861)$34,408 ($11,659) $153 ($14,846)
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 64 – 123.
62
Table of Contents
The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Summary of Business Segment Data
(Dollars in millions)  
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Revenues:
Commercial Airplanes $19,493 $16,162 $32,255 
Defense, Space & Security 26,540 26,257 26,095 
Global Services 16,328 15,543 18,468 
Boeing Capital 272 261 244 
Unallocated items, eliminations and other (347) (65) (503)
Total revenues $62,286 $58,158 $76,559 
Earnings/(loss) from operations:
Commercial Airplanes ($6,475) ($13,847) ($6,657)
Defense, Space & Security 1,544 1,539 2,615 
Global Services 2,017 450 2,697 
Boeing Capital 106 63 28 
Segment operating loss (2,808) (11,795) (1,317)
Unallocated items, eliminations and other (1,267) (2,355) (2,073)
FAS/CAS service cost adjustment 1,173 1,383 1,415 
Loss from operations (2,902) (12,767) (1,975)
Other income, net 551 447 438 
Interest and debt expense (2,682) (2,156) (722)
Loss before income taxes (5,033) (14,476) (2,259)
Income tax benefit 743 2,535 1,623 
Net loss (4,290) (11,941) (636)
Less: net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (88) (68)
Net loss attributable to Boeing Shareholders ($4,202) ($11,873) ($636)
This information is an integral part of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 22 for further
segment results.
63
Table of Contents
The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019
(Dollars in millions, except otherwise stated)
Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Principles of Consolidation and Basis of Presentation
The Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report have been prepared by management of The Boeing
Company (herein referred to as “Boeing,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our”). These statements include the accounts of
all majority-owned subsidiaries and variable interest entities that are required to be consolidated. All significant
intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. As described in Note 22, we operate in four reportable
segments: Commercial Airplanes (BCA), Defense, Space & Security (BDS), Global Services (BGS) and Boeing Capital
(BCC).
Liquidity Matters
The global outbreak of COVID-19, 787 production issues and associated rework, and the residual impacts of the 737
MAX grounding continue to have significant adverse impacts on our business and are expected to continue to
negatively impact revenue, earnings and operating cash flow in future quarters. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused
an unprecedented shock to demand for air travel, creating a tremendous challenge for our customers, our business and
the entire commercial aerospace manufacturing and services sector. We continue to expect commercial air travel to
return to 2019 levels in 2023 to 2024. We expect it will take a few years beyond that for the industry to return to long-
term trend growth. There is significant uncertainty with respect to when commercial air traffic levels will recover, and
whether, and at what point capacity will return to and/or exceed pre-COVID-19 levels.
During 2021, net cash used by operating activities was $3.4 billion. Our operating cash flows continue to be impacted
by lower commercial airplane deliveries and concessions paid to 737 MAX customers. We expect negative operating
cash flows until commercial deliveries ramp up. In 2021, we issued $9.8 billion of fixed rate senior notes that mature
between 2023 and 2026. We used the net proceeds of these note issuances to repay the $13.8 billion outstanding
under our two-year delayed draw term loan credit agreement. In 2021, we also repaid $1.5 billion of term notes. As a
result, our cash and short-term investment balance was $16.2 billion and our debt balance was $58.1 billion at
December 31, 2021. In addition, we have term notes of $1.2 billion maturing in 2022.
As of December 31, 2021, our unused borrowing capacity on revolving credit agreements is $14.7 billion. We anticipate
that these revolving credit lines will remain undrawn and primarily serve as backup liquidity to support our general
corporate borrowing needs. Our borrowing capacity includes a $3.1 billion 364-day revolving credit facility, which is set
to expire in October 2022. See Note 15.
In 2021, our short-term and long-term credit ratings by the major credit rating agencies remained unchanged from
2020. There is risk for further downgrades.
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, trade payables included $2.3 billion and $3.8 billion payable to suppliers who have
elected to participate in supply chain financing programs. While access to supply chain financing has been reduced due
to our current credit ratings and debt levels, we do not believe that these or future changes in the availability of supply
chain financing will have a significant impact on our liquidity.
In addition to our debt issuances, we have taken a number of actions to improve liquidity. During 2020, our Board of
Directors terminated its prior authorization to repurchase shares of the Company’s outstanding common stock and
suspended the declaration and/or payment of dividends until further
64
Table of Contents
notice. We have also reduced production rates in our commercial business to reflect the impact of COVID-19 on the
industry. We rationalized our workforce through a combination of voluntary and involuntary layoffs and natural turnover.
In the fourth quarter of 2020, we began using our common stock in lieu of cash to fund Company contributions to our
401(k) plans. In December 2020, we awarded most of our employees a one-time stock grant that will vest in three
years in lieu of merit pay increases. We have reduced discretionary spending, including reducing or deferring research
and development and capital expenditures. We expect these actions to further enable the Company to conserve cash.
We are also working with our customers and supply chain to accelerate receipts and conserve cash. For example, the
United States Department of Defense (U.S. DoD) has taken steps to work with its industry partners to increase liquidity
in the form of increased progress payment rates and reductions in withholds among other initiatives. In addition, the
Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act included a five-year net operating loss carryback
provision which enabled us to benefit from certain 2020 losses and resulted in tax refunds of $1.7 billion in 2021.
We continue to transform and improve our business processes. These activities are not intended to constrain our
capacity but to enable the Company to emerge stronger and be more resilient when the market recovers.
Based on our current best estimates of market demand, planned production rates, timing of cash receipts and
expenditures, our ability to successfully implement further actions to improve liquidity as well as our ability to access
additional liquidity, if needed, we believe it is probable that we will be able to fund our operations for the foreseeable
future.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We believe that the accounting estimates and assumptions are
appropriate, however, given the increased uncertainties surrounding the severity and duration of the impacts of the
COVID-19 pandemic actual results could differ from those estimates.
Operating Cycle
For classification of certain current assets and liabilities, we use the duration of the related contract or program as our
operating cycle, which is generally longer than one year.
Revenue and Related Cost Recognition
Commercial aircraft contracts The majority of our BCA segment revenue is derived from commercial aircraft
contracts. For each contract, we determine the transaction price based on the consideration expected to be received.
We allocate the transaction price to each commercial aircraft performance obligation based on relative standalone
selling prices adjusted by an escalation formula as specified in the customer agreement. Revenue is recognized for
each commercial aircraft performance obligation at the point in time when the aircraft is completed and accepted by the
customer. We use program accounting to determine the amount reported as cost of sales.
In certain situations, where an aircraft is still in our possession, and title and risk of loss has passed to the customer
(known as a bill-and-hold arrangement), revenue will be recognized when all specific requirements for transfer of
control under a bill-and-hold arrangement have been met.
65
Table of Contents
Payments for commercial aircraft sales are received in accordance with the customer agreement, which generally
includes a deposit upon order and additional payments in accordance with a payment schedule, with the balance being
due immediately prior to or at aircraft delivery. Advances and progress billings (contract liabilities) are normal and
customary for commercial aircraft contracts and not considered a significant financing component as they are intended
to protect us from the other party failing to adequately complete some or all of its obligations under the contract.
Long-term contracts Substantially all contracts at BDS and certain contracts at BGS are long-term contracts with the
U.S. government and other customers that generally extend over several years. Products sales under long-term
contracts primarily include fighter jets, rotorcraft, cybersecurity products, surveillance suites, advanced weapons,
missile defense, military derivative aircraft, satellite systems and modification of commercial passenger aircraft to cargo
freighters. Services sales under long-term contracts primarily include support and maintenance agreements associated
with our commercial and defense products and space travel on Commercial Crew.
For each long-term contract, we determine the transaction price based on the consideration expected to be received.
We allocate the transaction price to each distinct performance obligation to deliver a good or service, or a collection of
goods and/or services, based on the relative standalone selling prices. A long-term contract will typically represent a
single distinct performance obligation due to the highly interdependent and interrelated nature of the underlying goods
and/or services and the significant service of integration that we provide. While the scope and price on certain long-
term contracts may be modified over their life, the transaction price is based on current rights and obligations under the
contract and does not include potential modifications until they are agreed upon with the customer. When applicable, a
cumulative adjustment or separate recognition for the additional scope and price may result. Long-term contracts can
be negotiated with a fixed price or a price in which we are reimbursed for costs incurred plus an agreed upon profit. The
Federal Acquisition Regulations provide guidance on the types of cost that will be reimbursed in establishing the price
for contracts with the U.S. government. Certain long-term contracts include in the transaction price variable
consideration, such as incentive and award fees, if specified targets are achieved. The amount included in the
transaction price represents the expected value, based on a weighted probability, or the most likely amount.
Long-term contract revenue is recognized over the contract term (over time) as the work progresses, either as products
are produced or as services are rendered. We generally recognize revenue over time as we perform on long-term
contracts because of continuous transfer of control to the customer. For U.S. government contracts, this continuous
transfer of control to the customer is supported by clauses in the contract that allow the customer to unilaterally
terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work
in process. Similarly, for non-U.S. government contracts, the customer typically controls the work in process as
evidenced either by contractual termination clauses or by our rights to payment of the transaction price associated with
work performed to date on products or services that do not have an alternative use to the Company.
The accounting for long-term contracts involves a judgmental process of estimating total sales, costs and profit for each
performance obligation. Cost of sales is recognized as incurred. The amount reported as revenues is determined by
adding a proportionate amount of the estimated profit to the amount reported as cost of sales. Recognizing revenue as
costs are incurred provides an objective measure of progress on the long-term contract and thereby best depicts the
extent of transfer of control to the customer.
For long-term contracts for which revenue is recognized over time, changes in estimated revenues, cost of sales and
the related effect on operating income are recognized using a cumulative catch-up adjustment which recognizes in the
current period the cumulative effect of the changes on current and prior periods based on a long-term contract’s
percentage-of-completion. When the current estimates of
66
Table of Contents
total sales and costs for a long-term contract indicate a loss, a provision for the entire reach-forward loss on the long-
term contract is recognized.
Net cumulative catch-up adjustments to prior years' revenue and earnings, including certain reach-forward losses,
across all long-term contracts were as follows:
2021 2020 2019
Increase/(Decrease) to Revenue ($379) ($359) $54 
Increase to Loss from operations ($880) ($942) ($111)
Decrease to Diluted EPS ($1.28) ($1.37) ($0.06)
Significant adjustments during the three years ended December 31, 2021 included losses on KC-46A Tanker,
Commercial Crew and VC-25B.
Due to the significance of judgment in the estimation process, changes in underlying assumptions/estimates, supplier
performance or circumstances may adversely or positively affect financial performance in future periods.
Payments under long-term contracts may be received before or after revenue is recognized. The U.S. government
customer typically withholds payment of a small portion of the contract price until contract completion. Therefore, long-
term contracts typically generate Unbilled receivables (contract assets) but may generate Advances and progress
billings (contract liabilities). Long-term contract Unbilled receivables and Advances and progress billings are not
considered a significant financing component because they are intended to protect either the customer or the Company
in the event that some or all of the obligations under the contract are not completed.
Commercial spare parts contracts Certain contracts at our BGS segment include sales of commercial spare parts.
For each contract, we determine the transaction price based on the consideration expected to be received. The spare
parts have discrete unit prices that represent fair value. We generally consider each spare part to be a separate
performance obligation. Revenue is recognized for each commercial spare part performance obligation at the point in
time of delivery to the customer. We may provide our customers with a right to return a commercial spare part where a
customer may receive a full or partial refund, a credit applied to amounts owed, a different product in exchange, or any
combination of these items. We consider the potential for customer returns in the estimated transaction price. The
amount reported as cost of sales is recorded at average cost. Payments for commercial spare parts sales are typically
received shortly after delivery.
Other service revenue contracts Certain contracts at our BGS segment are for sales of services to commercial
customers including maintenance, training, data analytics and information-based services. We recognize revenue for
these service performance obligations over time as the services are rendered. The method of measuring progress
(such as straight-line or billable amount) varies depending upon which method best depicts the transfer of control to the
customer based on the type of service performed. Cost of sales is recorded as incurred.
Concession Sharing Arrangements We account for sales concessions to our customers in consideration of their
purchase of products and services as a reduction of the transaction price and the revenue that is recognized for the
related performance obligations. The sales concessions incurred may be partially reimbursed by certain suppliers in
accordance with concession sharing arrangements. We record these reimbursements, which are presumed to
represent reductions in the price of the vendor’s products or services, as a reduction in Cost of products.
Unbilled Receivables and Advances and Progress Billings Unbilled receivables (contract assets) arise when the
Company recognizes revenue for amounts which cannot yet be billed under terms of the
67
Table of Contents
contract with the customer. Advances and progress billings (contract liabilities) arise when the Company receives
payments from customers in advance of recognizing revenue. The amount of Unbilled receivables or Advances and
progress billings is determined for each contract.
Financial Services Revenue We record financial services revenue associated with sales-type/finance leases,
operating leases and loans in Sales of services on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. For sales-type leases,
we recognize revenue if collection of the lease payments is probable. For sales-type and finance leases, we record
customer financing receivables at lease inception. A customer financing receivable is recorded at the aggregate of
future minimum lease payments, estimated residual value of the leased equipment, and any deferred incremental direct
costs less unearned income. Income is recognized over the life of the lease to approximate a level rate of return on the
net investment. For notes receivable, notes are recorded as customer financing receivables net of any unamortized
discounts and deferred incremental direct costs. Interest income and amortization of any discounts are recorded ratably
over the related term of the note.
Income recognition is generally suspended for customer financing receivables that are uncollectible. We determine
that a customer financing receivable is uncollectible when, based on current information and events, it is probable that
we will be unable to collect amounts due according to the original contractual terms. We determine a customer
financing receivable is past due when cash has not been received upon the due date specified in the contract.
We evaluate the collectability of customer financing receivables at commencement and on a recurring basis. If a
customer financing receivable is determined to be uncollectible, the customer is categorized as non-accrual status.
When a customer is in non-accrual status at commencement, sales-type lease revenue is deferred until substantially all
cash has been received or the customer is removed from non-accrual status. If we have a direct finance lease and/or a
note receivable with a customer that is in non-accrual status, or a sales-type lease with a customer that changes to
non-accrual status after commencement, we recognize contractual interest income as payments are received to the
extent there is sufficient collateral and payments exceed past due principal payments.
Residual values, which are reviewed periodically, represent the estimated amount we expect to receive at lease
termination from the disposition of the leased equipment. Actual residual values realized could differ from these
estimates. Declines in estimated residual value that are deemed other-than-temporary are recognized in the period in
which the declines occur.
For operating leases, revenue on leased aircraft and equipment is recorded on a straight-line basis over the term of the
lease. Operating lease assets, included in Customer financing, net, are recorded at cost and depreciated to an
estimated residual value using the straight-line method over the period that we project we will hold the asset. We
periodically review our estimates of residual value and recognize forecasted changes by prospectively adjusting
depreciation expense.
Reinsurance Revenue Our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary, Astro Ltd., participates in a reinsurance pool for
workers’ compensation. The member agreements and practices of the reinsurance pool minimize any participating
members’ individual risk. Reinsurance revenues were $126, $129 and $151 during 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Reinsurance costs related to premiums and claims paid to the reinsurance pool were $129, $136 and $150 during
2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Revenues and costs are presented net in Cost of sales in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations.
Fleet Support
We provide assistance and support to facilitate efficient and safe aircraft operation to the operators of all our
commercial airplane models. Collectively known as fleet support, these activities and support services include flight and
maintenance training, field service support, engineering support, and
68
Table of Contents
technical data and documents. Fleet support activity begins prior to aircraft delivery as the customer receives training,
manuals, and technical consulting support. This activity continues throughout the aircraft’s operational life. Services
provided after delivery include field service support, consulting on maintenance, repair and operational issues brought
forth by the customer or regulators, updating manuals and engineering data, and the issuance of service bulletins that
impact the entire model’s fleet. Field service support involves our personnel located at customer facilities providing and
coordinating fleet support activities and requests. The costs for fleet support are expensed as incurred as Cost of
services.
Research and Development
Research and development includes costs incurred for experimentation, design and testing, as well as bid and proposal
efforts related to government products and services, which are expensed as incurred unless the costs are related to
certain contractual arrangements with customers. Costs that are incurred pursuant to such contractual arrangements
are recorded over the period that revenue is recognized, consistent with our long-term contract accounting policy. We
have certain research and development arrangements that meet the requirement for best efforts research and
development accounting. Accordingly, the amounts funded by the customer are recognized as an offset to our research
and development expense rather than as contract revenues. Research and development expense included bid and
proposal costs of $213, $224 and $214 in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Share-Based Compensation
We provide various forms of share-based compensation to our employees. For awards settled in shares, we measure
compensation expense based on the grant-date fair value net of estimated forfeitures. For awards settled in cash, or
that may be settled in cash, we measure compensation expense based on the fair value at each reporting date net of
estimated forfeitures. The expense is recognized over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period
of the award.
Income Taxes
Provisions for U.S. federal, state and local, and non-U.S. income taxes are calculated on reported Loss before income
taxes based on current tax law and also include, in the current period, the cumulative effect of any changes in tax rates
from those used previously in determining deferred tax assets and liabilities. Such provisions differ from the amounts
currently receivable or payable because certain items of income and expense are recognized in different time periods
for financial reporting purposes than for income tax purposes. Significant judgment is required in determining income
tax provisions and evaluating tax positions.
The accounting for uncertainty in income taxes requires a more-likely-than-not threshold for financial statement
recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. We record a liability for the
difference between the benefit recognized and measured for financial statement purposes and the tax position taken or
expected to be taken on our tax return. To the extent that our assessment of such tax positions changes, the change in
estimate is recorded in the period in which the determination is made. Tax-related interest and penalties are classified
as a component of Income tax benefit.
We also assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets against future sources of taxable
income and reduce the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets by recording a valuation allowance if, based on the
available evidence, it is more likely than not that all or a portion of such assets will not be realized. Changes in our
estimates and judgments regarding realization of deferred tax assets may result in an increase or decrease to our tax
expense and/or other comprehensive income, which would be recorded in the period in which the change occurs.
69
Table of Contents
Postretirement Plans
Many of our employees have earned benefits under defined benefit pension plans. Nonunion and the majority of union
employees that had participated in defined benefit pension plans transitioned to a company-funded defined contribution
retirement savings plan in 2016. Additional union employees transitioned to company-funded defined contribution
retirement savings plans effective January 1, 2019. We also provide postretirement benefit plans other than pensions,
consisting principally of health care coverage to eligible retirees and qualifying dependents. Benefits under the pension
and other postretirement benefit plans are generally based on age at retirement and years of service and, for some
pension plans, benefits are also based on the employee’s annual earnings. The net periodic cost of our pension and
other postretirement plans is determined using the projected unit credit method and several actuarial assumptions, the
most significant of which are the discount rate, the long-term rate of asset return and medical trend (rate of growth for
medical costs). A portion of the service cost component of net periodic pension and other postretirement income or
expense is not recognized in net earnings in the year incurred because it is allocated to production as product costs
and reflected in inventory at the end of a reporting period. Actuarial gains and losses, which occur when actual
experience differs from actuarial assumptions, are reflected in Shareholders’ equity (net of taxes). If actuarial gains and
losses exceed ten percent of the greater of plan assets or plan liabilities, we amortize them over the average expected
future lifetime of participants. The funded status of our pension and postretirement plans is reflected on the
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.
Postemployment Plans
We record a liability for postemployment benefits, such as severance or job training, when payment is probable, the
amount is reasonably estimable, and the obligation relates to rights that have vested or accumulated.
Environmental Remediation
We are subject to federal and state requirements for protection of the environment, including those for discharge of
hazardous materials and remediation of contaminated sites. We routinely assess, based on in-depth studies, expert
analyses and legal reviews, our contingencies, obligations and commitments for remediation of contaminated sites,
including assessments of ranges and probabilities of recoveries from other responsible parties and/or insurance
carriers. Our policy is to accrue and charge to current expense identified exposures related to environmental
remediation sites when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated.
The amount of the liability is based on our best estimate or the low end of a range of reasonably possible exposure for
investigation, cleanup and monitoring costs to be incurred. Estimated remediation costs are not discounted to present
value as the timing of payments cannot be reasonably estimated. We may be able to recover a portion of the
remediation costs from insurers or other third parties. Such recoveries are recorded when realization of the claim for
recovery is deemed probable.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid instruments, such as commercial paper, time deposits, and other
money market instruments, which have original maturities of three months or less. We aggregate our cash balances by
bank where conditions for right of set-off are met, and reclassify any negative balances, consisting mainly of uncleared
checks, to Accounts payable. Negative balances reclassified to Accounts payable were $47 and $74 at December 31,
2021 and 2020.
Inventories
Inventoried costs on commercial aircraft programs and long-term contracts include direct engineering, production and
tooling and other non-recurring costs, and applicable overhead, which includes fringe
70
Table of Contents
benefits, production related indirect and plant management salaries and plant services, not in excess of estimated net
realizable value. To the extent a material amount of such costs are related to an abnormal event or are fixed costs not
appropriately attributable to our programs or contracts, they are expensed in the current period rather than inventoried.
Inventoried costs include amounts relating to programs and contracts with long-term production cycles, a portion of
which is not expected to be realized within one year. Included in inventory for federal government contracts is an
allocation of allowable costs related to manufacturing process reengineering.
Commercial aircraft programs inventory includes deferred production costs and supplier advances. Deferred production
costs represent actual costs incurred for production of early units that exceed the estimated average cost of all units in
the program accounting quantity. Higher production costs are experienced at the beginning of a new or derivative
airplane program. Units produced early in a program require substantially more effort (labor and other resources) than
units produced later in a program because of volume efficiencies and the effects of learning. We expect that these
deferred costs will be fully recovered when all units included in the accounting quantity are delivered as the expected
unit cost for later deliveries is below the estimated average cost of all units in the program. Supplier advances
represent payments for parts we have contracted to receive from suppliers in the future. As parts are received, supplier
advances are amortized to work in process.
The determination of net realizable value of long-term contract costs is based upon quarterly reviews that estimate
costs to be incurred to complete all contract requirements. When actual contract costs and the estimate to complete
exceed total estimated contract revenues, a loss provision is recorded. The determination of net realizable value of
commercial aircraft program costs is based upon quarterly program reviews that estimate revenue and cost to be
incurred to complete the program accounting quantity. When estimated costs to complete exceed estimated program
revenues to go, a program loss provision is recorded in the current period for the estimated loss on all undelivered units
in the accounting quantity.
Used aircraft purchased by the Commercial Airplanes segment and general stock materials are stated at cost not in
excess of net realizable value. See ‘Aircraft Valuation’ within this Note for a discussion of our valuation of used aircraft.
Spare parts inventory is stated at lower of average unit cost or net realizable value. We review our commercial spare
parts and general stock materials quarterly to identify impaired inventory, including excess or obsolete inventory, based
on historical sales trends, expected production usage, and the size and age of the aircraft fleet using the part. Impaired
inventories are charged to Cost of products in the period the impairment occurs.
Included in inventory for commercial aircraft programs are amounts paid or credited in cash, or other consideration to
certain airline customers, that are referred to as early issue sales consideration. Early issue sales consideration is
recognized as a reduction to revenue when the delivery of the aircraft under contract occurs. If an airline customer does
not perform and take delivery of the contracted aircraft, we believe that we would have the ability to recover amounts
paid. However, to the extent early issue sales consideration exceeds advances and is not considered to be otherwise
recoverable, it would be written off in the current period.
Precontract Costs
We may, from time to time, incur costs in excess of the amounts required for existing contracts. If we determine the
costs are probable of recovery from future orders, then we capitalize the precontract costs we incur, excluding start-up
costs which are expensed as incurred. Capitalized precontract costs are included in Inventories in the accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Should future orders not materialize or we determine the costs are no
longer probable of recovery, the capitalized costs would be written off.
71
Table of Contents
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost, including applicable construction-period interest, less accumulated
depreciation and are depreciated principally over the following estimated useful lives: new buildings and land
improvements, from 10 to 40 years; and new machinery and equipment, from 4 to 20 years. The principal methods of
depreciation are as follows: buildings and land improvements, 150% declining balance; and machinery and equipment,
sum-of-the-years’ digits. Capitalized internal use software is included in Other assets and amortized using the straight
line method over 5 years. Capitalized software as a service is included in Other assets and amortized using the straight
line method over the term of the hosting arrangement, which is typically no greater than 10 years. We periodically
evaluate the appropriateness of remaining depreciable lives assigned to long-lived assets, including assets that may be
subject to a management plan for disposition.
Long-lived assets held for sale are stated at the lower of cost or fair value less cost to sell. Long-lived assets held for
use are subject to an impairment assessment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount may not be recoverable. If the carrying value is no longer recoverable based upon the undiscounted future
cash flows of the asset, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value
of the asset.
Leases We determine if an arrangement is, or contains, a lease at the inception date. Operating leases are included in
Other assets, with the related liabilities included in Accrued liabilities and Other long-term liabilities. Assets under
finance leases, which primarily represent computer equipment, are included in Property, plant and equipment, net, with
the related liabilities included in Short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt and Long-term debt on the
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.
Operating lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent
our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease assets and liabilities are recognized at
the lease commencement date based on the estimated present value of lease payments over the lease term. We use
our estimated incremental borrowing rate in determining the present value of lease payments. Variable components of
the lease payments such as fair market value adjustments, utilities and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred
and not included in determining the present value. Our lease terms include options to extend or terminate the lease
when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over
the lease term.
We have real property lease agreements with lease and non-lease components which are accounted for as a single
lease component.
Asset Retirement Obligations
We record all known asset retirement obligations for which the liability’s fair value can be reasonably estimated,
including certain asbestos removal, asset decommissioning and contractual lease restoration obligations. Recorded
amounts are not material.
We also have known conditional asset retirement obligations, such as certain asbestos remediation and asset
decommissioning activities to be performed in the future, that are not reasonably estimable due to insufficient
information about the timing and method of settlement of the obligation. Accordingly, these obligations have not been
recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements. A liability for these obligations will be recorded in the period when
sufficient information regarding timing and method of settlement becomes available to make a reasonable estimate of
the liability’s fair value. In addition, there may be conditional asset retirement obligations that we have not yet
discovered (e.g. asbestos may exist in certain buildings but we have not become aware of it through the normal course
of
72
Table of Contents
business), and therefore, these obligations also have not been included in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangibles
Goodwill and other acquired intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but are tested for impairment
annually and when an event occurs or circumstances change such that it is more likely than not that an impairment
may exist. Our annual testing date is April 1.
We test goodwill for impairment by performing a qualitative assessment or using a quantitative test. If we choose to
perform a qualitative assessment and determine it is more likely than not that the carrying value of the net assets is
more than the fair value of the related operations, the quantitative test is then performed; otherwise, no further testing is
required. For operations where the quantitative test is used, we compare the carrying value of net assets to the
estimated fair value of the related operations. If the fair value is determined to be less than carrying value, the shortfall
up to the carrying value of the goodwill represents the amount of goodwill impairment.
Indefinite-lived intangibles consist of a brand and trade name and in-process research and development (IPR&D)
acquired in business combinations. IPR&D is initially capitalized at fair value as an intangible asset with an indefinite
life and assessed for impairment thereafter. IPR&D is reclassified to finite-lived acquired intangible assets when a
project is completed and then amortized on a straight-line basis over the asset’s estimated useful life. We test these
intangibles for impairment by comparing the carrying values to current projections of related discounted cash flows. Any
excess carrying value over the amount of discounted cash flows represents the amount of the impairment.
Our finite-lived acquired intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as
follows: developed technology, from 4 to 14 years; product know-how, from 6 to 30 years; customer base, from 3 to 17
years; distribution rights, from 3 to 27 years; and other, from 1 to 32 years. We evaluate the potential impairment of
finite-lived acquired intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount
may not be recoverable. If the carrying value is no longer recoverable based upon the undiscounted future cash flows
of the asset, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the
asset.
Investments
Time deposits are held-to-maturity investments that are carried at cost.
Available-for-sale debt securities include commercial paper, U.S. government agency securities and corporate debt
securities. Available-for-sale debt securities are recorded at fair value, and unrealized gains and losses are recorded,
net of tax, as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Realized gains and losses on available-for-
sale debt securities are recognized based on the specific identification method. Available-for-sale debt securities are
assessed for impairment quarterly.
The equity method of accounting is used to account for investments for which we have the ability to exercise significant
influence, but not control, over an investee. Significant influence is generally deemed to exist if we have an ownership
interest in the voting stock of an investee of between 20% and 50%. The cumulative earnings approach is used for
cash flow classification of distributions received from equity method investments.
Other Equity investments are recorded at fair value, with gains and losses recorded through net earnings. Equity
investments without readily determinable fair value are measured at cost, less impairments, plus or minus observable
price changes. Equity investments without readily determinable fair value are assessed for impairment quarterly.
73
Table of Contents
We classify investment income and loss on our Consolidated Statements of Operations based on whether the
investment is operating or non-operating in nature. Operating investments align strategically and are integrated with our
operations. Earnings from operating investments, including our share of income or loss from equity method
investments, dividend income from other equity investments, and any impairments or gain/loss on the disposition of
these investments, are recorded in Income from operating investments, net. Non-operating investments are those we
hold for non-strategic purposes. Earnings from non-operating investments, including interest and dividends on
marketable securities, and any impairments or gain/loss on the disposition of these investments are recorded in Other
income/(loss), net.
Derivatives
All derivative instruments are recognized in the financial statements and measured at fair value regardless of the
purpose or intent of holding them. We use derivative instruments to principally manage a variety of market risks. For
our cash flow hedges, the derivative’s gain or loss is initially reported in comprehensive income and is subsequently
reclassified into earnings in the same period(s) during which the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. We
have agreements to purchase and sell aluminum to address long-term strategic sourcing objectives and non-U.S.
business requirements. These agreements are derivatives for accounting purposes but are not designated for hedge
accounting treatment. We also hold certain derivative instruments for economic purposes that are not designated for
hedge accounting treatment. For these aluminum agreements and for other derivative instruments not designated for
hedge accounting treatment, the changes in their fair value are recorded in earnings immediately.
Allowances for Losses on Certain Financial Assets
We establish allowances for credit losses on accounts receivable, unbilled receivables, customer financing receivables
and certain other financial assets. The adequacy of these allowances is assessed quarterly through consideration of
factors such as customer credit ratings, bankruptcy filings, published or estimated credit default rates, age of the
receivable, expected loss rates and collateral exposures. We determine the creditworthiness of our customers by
assigning internal credit ratings based upon publicly available information and information obtained directly from the
customers. Our rating categories are comparable to those used by major credit rating agencies.
Aircraft Valuation
Used aircraft under trade-in commitments and aircraft under repurchase commitments In conjunction with
signing a definitive agreement for the sale of new aircraft (Sale Aircraft), we have entered into trade-in commitments
with certain customers that give them the right to trade in used aircraft at a specified price upon the purchase of Sale
Aircraft. Additionally, we have entered into contingent repurchase commitments with certain customers wherein we
agree to repurchase the Sale Aircraft at a specified price, generally 10 to 15 years after delivery of the Sale Aircraft. Our
repurchase of the Sale Aircraft is contingent upon a future, mutually acceptable agreement for the sale of additional
new aircraft. If we execute an agreement for the sale of additional new aircraft, and if the customer exercises its right to
sell the Sale Aircraft to us, a contingent repurchase commitment would become a trade-in commitment. Our historical
experience is that contingent repurchase commitments infrequently become trade-in commitments.
74
Table of Contents
Exposure related to trade-in commitments may take the form of:
(1)adjustments to revenue for the difference between the contractual trade-in price in the definitive agreement
and our best estimate of the fair value of the trade-in aircraft as of the date of such agreement, which would
be recognized upon delivery of the Sale Aircraft, and/or
(2)charges to cost of products for adverse changes in the fair value of trade-in aircraft that occur subsequent to
signing of a definitive agreement for Sale Aircraft but prior to the purchase of the used trade-in aircraft.
Estimates based on current aircraft values would be included in Accrued liabilities.
The fair value of trade-in aircraft is determined using aircraft-specific data such as model, age and condition, market
conditions for specific aircraft and similar models, and multiple valuation sources. This process uses our assessment of
the market for each trade-in aircraft, which in most instances begins years before the return of the aircraft. There are
several possible markets in which we continually pursue opportunities to place used aircraft. These markets include,
but are not limited to, the resale market, which could potentially include the cost of long-term storage; the leasing
market, with the potential for refurbishment costs to meet the leasing customer’s requirements; or the scrap market.
Trade-in aircraft valuation varies significantly depending on which market we determine is most likely for each aircraft.
On a quarterly basis, we update our valuation analysis based on the actual activities associated with placing each
aircraft into a market or using current published third-party aircraft valuations based on the type and age of the aircraft,
adjusted for individual attributes and known conditions.
Used aircraft acquired by the Commercial Airplanes segment are included in Inventories at the lower of cost or net
realizable value as it is our intent to sell these assets. To mitigate costs and enhance marketability, aircraft may be
placed on operating lease. While on operating lease, the assets are included in Customer financing.
Customer financing Customer financing includes operating lease equipment, notes receivable and sales-type/finance
leases. Sales-type/finance leases are treated as receivables, and allowances for losses are established as necessary.
Customer financing is collateralized by security in the related asset.
We assess the fair value of equipment under operating leases, assets held for sale or re-lease, and collateral
underlying receivables to determine if their fair values are less than the related customer financing assets’ carrying
values. Differences between carrying values and fair values of sales-type/finance leases and notes and other
receivables, as determined by collateral value, are considered in determining the allowance for losses on receivables.
We use a median calculated from published collateral values from multiple third-party aircraft value publications based
on the type and age of the aircraft to determine the fair value of aircraft. Under certain circumstances, we apply
judgment based on the attributes of the specific aircraft or equipment, usually when the features or use of the aircraft
vary significantly from the more generic aircraft attributes covered by outside publications.
Impairment review for assets under operating leases and held for sale or re-lease We evaluate for impairment
assets under operating lease or assets held for sale or re-lease when events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the expected undiscounted cash flow from the asset may be less than the carrying value. We use various assumptions
when determining the expected undiscounted cash flow, including our intentions for how long we will hold an asset
subject to operating lease before it is sold, the expected future lease rates, lease terms, residual value of the asset,
periods in which the asset may be held in preparation for a follow-on lease, maintenance costs, remarketing costs and
the remaining
75
Table of Contents
economic life of the asset. We record assets held for sale at the lower of carrying value or fair value less costs to sell.
When we determine that impairment is indicated for an asset, the amount of impairment expense recorded is the
excess of the carrying value over the fair value of the asset.
Allowance for losses on customer financing receivables We record the estimated allowance for potential losses on
customer financing receivables in a valuation account. The four primary factors influencing the level of our allowance
for losses on customer financing receivables are collateral values, internal customer credit ratings, default rates and
expected loss rate.
We review the adequacy of the allowance for losses by assessing the collateral exposure, the applicable default rate
and expected loss rate. Collateral exposure for a particular receivable is the excess of the carrying value of the
receivable over the fair value of the related collateral. A receivable with an estimated fair value in excess of the carrying
value is considered to have no collateral exposure. The applicable default rate is determined using two components:
internal customer credit ratings and weighted average remaining contract term. We assign internal credit ratings for all
customers and determine the creditworthiness of each customer based upon publicly available information and
information obtained directly from our customers. Our rating categories are comparable to those used by the major
credit rating agencies. We apply an expected loss rate, based on publicly available information, to the applicable
default rate.
We have entered into agreements with certain customers that would entitle us to look beyond the specific collateral
underlying the receivable for purposes of determining the collateral exposure as described above. Should the proceeds
from the sale of the underlying collateral asset resulting from a default condition be insufficient to cover the carrying
value of our receivable (creating a shortfall condition), these agreements would, for example, permit us to take the
actions necessary to sell or retain certain other assets in which the customer has an equity interest and use the
proceeds to cover the shortfall.
Each quarter we review the assigned internal customer credit ratings, published historical credit default rates for
different rating categories and multiple third-party aircraft value publications as a basis to validate the reasonableness
of the allowance for losses on customer financing receivables. There can be no assurance that actual results will not
differ from estimates or that the consideration of these factors in the future will not result in an increase or decrease to
the allowance for losses on customer financing receivables.
Warranties
In conjunction with certain product sales, we provide warranties that cover factors such as non-conformance to
specifications and defects in material and design. The majority of our warranties are issued by our BCA segment.
Generally, aircraft sales are accompanied by a 3 to 4-year standard warranty for systems, accessories, equipment,
parts, and software manufactured by us or manufactured to certain standards under our authorization. These
warranties are included in the programs’ estimate at completion. On occasion we have made commitments beyond the
standard warranty obligation to correct fleet-wide major issues of a particular model, resulting in additional accrued
warranty expense. Warranties issued by our BDS segment principally relate to sales of military aircraft and weapons
systems. These sales are generally accompanied by a six month to two-year warranty period and cover systems,
accessories, equipment, parts and software manufactured by us to certain contractual specifications. Estimated costs
related to standard warranties are recorded in the period in which the related product delivery occurs. The warranty
liability recorded at each balance sheet date reflects the estimated number of months of warranty coverage outstanding
for products delivered times the average of historical monthly warranty payments, as well as additional amounts for
76
Table of Contents
certain major warranty issues that exceed a normal claims level. Estimated costs of these additional warranty issues
are considered changes to the initial liability estimate.
We provide guarantees to certain commercial airplane customers which include compensation provisions for failure to
meet specified aircraft performance targets. We account for these performance guarantees as warranties. The
estimated liability for these warranties is based on known and anticipated operational characteristics and forecasted
customer operation of the aircraft relative to contractually specified performance targets, and anticipated settlements
when contractual remedies are not specified. Estimated payments are recorded as a reduction of revenue at delivery of
the related aircraft. We have agreements that require certain suppliers to compensate us for amounts paid to
customers for failure of supplied equipment to meet specified performance targets. Claims against suppliers under
these agreements are included in Inventories and recorded as a reduction in Cost of products at delivery of the related
aircraft. These performance warranties and claims against suppliers are included in the programs’ estimate at
completion.
Supplier Penalties
We record an accrual for supplier penalties when an event occurs that makes it probable that a supplier penalty will be
incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. Until an event occurs, we fully anticipate accepting all products
procured under production-related contracts.
Guarantees
We record a liability in Accrued liabilities for the fair value of guarantees. For credit guarantees, the liability is equal to
the present value of the expected loss. We determine the expected loss by multiplying the creditor’s default rate by the
guarantee amount reduced by the expected recovery, if applicable. At inception of a guarantee, and adjusted each
quarter, we also recognize a liability for the expected contingent loss.
Note 2 – Goodwill and Acquired Intangibles
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 were as follows:
Commercial
AirplanesDefense,
Space &
SecurityGlobal
Services Other Total
Balance at December 31, 2019 $1,313 $3,219 $3,441 $87 $8,060 
Goodwill adjustments 3 5 13 21 
Balance at December 31, 2020 $1,316 $3,224 $3,454 $87 $8,081 
Goodwill adjustments (11) (2) (13)
Balance at December 31, 2021 $1,316 $3,224 $3,443 $85 $8,068 
77
Table of Contents
As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, we had indefinite-lived intangible assets with carrying amounts of $197 relating to
trade names. During 2019, we recorded an impairment of $293 within Cost of Sales, as a result of our decision to retire
the Aviall brand and trade name. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, we had an indefinite-lived intangible asset with a
carrying amount of $202 related to in process research and development for a next-generation air vehicle.
The gross carrying amounts and accumulated amortization of our acquired finite-lived intangible assets were as follows
at December 31:
2021 2020
Gross
Carrying
AmountAccumulated
AmortizationGross
Carrying
AmountAccumulated
Amortization
Distribution rights $2,554 $1,321 $2,812 $1,427 
Product know-how 553 413 553 384 
Customer base 1,360 721 1,373 672 
Developed technology 626 526 626 502 
Other 301 250 303 238 
Total $5,394 $3,231 $5,667 $3,223 
During 2020, we recorded impairments of $178 within Cost of Sales related to our distribution rights, primarily driven by
airlines' decisions to retire certain aircraft. Amortization expense for acquired finite-lived intangible assets for the years
ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 was $284 and $317. Estimated amortization expense for the five succeeding
years is as follows:
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
Estimated amortization expense $245 $236 $221 $195 $192 
Note 3 – Earnings Per Share
Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed using the two-class method, which is an earnings allocation method
that determines earnings per share for common shares and participating securities. The undistributed earnings are
allocated between common shares and participating securities as if all earnings had been distributed during the period.
Participating securities and common shares have equal rights to undistributed earnings.
Basic earnings per share is calculated by taking net earnings, less earnings available to participating securities, divided
by the basic weighted average common shares outstanding.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by taking net earnings, less earnings available to participating securities,
divided by the diluted weighted average common shares outstanding.
78
Table of Contents
The elements used in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share were as follows:
(In millions - except per share amounts)
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Net loss attributable to Boeing Shareholders ($4,202) ($11,873) ($636)
Less: earnings available to participating securities
Net loss available to common shareholders ($4,202) ($11,873) ($636)
Basic
Basic weighted average shares outstanding 588.0 569.0 566.0 
Less: participating securities 0.4 0.4 0.6 
Basic weighted average common shares outstanding 587.6 568.6 565.4 
Diluted
Basic weighted average shares outstanding 588.0 569.0 566.0 
Dilutive potential common shares
Diluted weighted average shares outstanding 588.0 569.0 566.0 
Less: participating securities 0.4 0.4 0.6 
Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding 587.6 568.6 565.4 
Net loss per share:
Basic ($7.15) ($20.88) ($1.12)
Diluted (7.15) (20.88) (1.12)
Diluted loss per share includes any dilutive impact of stock options, restricted stock units, performance-based
restricted stock units and performance awards.
Participating securities include certain instruments in our deferred compensation plan.
As a result of incurring a net loss for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, potential common shares of
2.6 million, 1.6 million and 4.1 million, respectively, were excluded from diluted loss per share because the effect would
have been antidilutive. In addition, the following table includes the number of shares that may be dilutive potential
common shares in the future. These shares were not included in the computation of diluted loss per share because the
effect was either antidilutive or the performance condition was not met.
(Shares in millions)
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Performance awards 2.9 5.7 2.8 
Performance-based restricted stock units 0.8 1.3 0.6 
Restricted stock units 0.4 1.0 
Stock options 0.3 (2)
(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
79
Table of Contents
Note 4 – Income Taxes
The components of Loss before income taxes were:
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
U.S. ($5,475) ($14,882) ($2,792)
Non-U.S. 442 406 533 
Total ($5,033) ($14,476) ($2,259)
Income tax benefit consisted of the following:
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Current tax (benefit)/expense
U.S. federal ($89) ($3,968) ($308)
Non-U.S. 147 148 169 
U.S. state 42 21 (161)
Total current 100 (3,799) (300)
Deferred tax (benefit)/expense
U.S. federal (855) 652 (953)
Non-U.S. (12) (3)
U.S. state 24 612 (367)
Total deferred (843) 1,264 (1,323)
Total income tax (benefit)/expense ($743) ($2,535) ($1,623)
Net income tax (refunds)/payments were ($1,480), $37 and $837 in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
80
Table of Contents
The following is a reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory tax to actual income tax (benefit)/expense:
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Amount Rate Amount Rate Amount Rate
U.S. federal statutory tax ($1,057) 21.0 % ($3,039) 21.0 % ($474) 21.0 %
Valuation allowance 512 (10.2) 2,603 (18.0) 25 (1.1)
Research and development credits (189) 3.8 (284) 2.0 (382) 16.9 
State income tax provision, net of effects
on U.S. federal tax (94) 1.9 (168) 1.2 (45) 2.0 
Tax on non-U.S. activities 47 (0.9) 7 (0.1) 20 (0.9)
Impact of CARES Act 3 (0.1) (1,175) 8.1 
Other provision adjustments 41 (0.9) 234 (1.7) 66 (3.0)
Excess tax benefits (6) 0.1 (82) 0.6 (180) 8.0 
Audit settlements (587) 4.1 (371) 16.4 
Foreign derived intangible income (31) 0.2 (229) 10.1 
Tax deductible dividends (13) 0.1 (53) 2.4 
Income tax (benefit)/expense ($743) 14.7 % ($2,535) 17.5 % ($1,623) 71.8 %
    On March 27, 2020, the CARES Act was enacted, which includes a five year net operating loss (NOL) carryback
provision which enabled us to benefit from the 2020 U.S. federal tax NOL at the former federal tax rate of 35%. In
2021 and 2020, we recorded tax expense of $3 and tax benefits of $1,175 related to the NOL carryback provision.
    In 2021, 2020 and 2019, we recorded excess tax benefits related to employee share-based payments of $6, $82
and $180, respectively.
    In the fourth quarter of 2020, we recorded a tax benefit of $587 related to the settlement of the 2015-2017 federal
tax audit. In the fourth quarter of 2019, we recorded a tax benefit of $371 related to the settlement of state tax
audits spanning 15 tax years.
In 2020 and 2019, we recorded tax benefits related to foreign derived intangible income of $31 and $229,
respectively which effectively apply a lower U.S. tax rate to intangible income derived from serving non-U.S.
markets.(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)    
81
Table of Contents
Significant components of our deferred tax assets/(liabilities) at December 31 were as follows:
2021 2020
Inventory and long-term contract methods of income recognition ($3,827) ($4,313)
Pension benefits 1,739 3,029 
Fixed assets, intangibles and goodwill (1,657) (1,645)
Federal net operating loss, credit, interest and other carryovers 1,522 317 
Other employee benefits 991 957 
State net operating loss, credit, interest and other carryovers 929 777 
Other postretirement benefit obligations 913 1,023 
Accrued expenses and reserves 763 808 
737 MAX customer concessions and other considerations 682 1,253 
Other 227 (36)
Gross deferred tax assets/(liabilities) before valuation allowance $2,282 $2,170 
Valuation allowance (2,423) (3,094)
Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) after valuation allowance ($141) ($924)
Of the deferred tax asset for federal net operating loss, credit, interest and other carryovers, $536 expires on or
before December 31, 2041 and $986 may be carried over indefinitely.
Of the deferred tax asset for state net operating loss, credit, interest and other carryovers, $453 expires on or
before December 31, 2041 and $476 may be carried over indefinitely.
Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) at December 31 were as follows:
2021 2020
Deferred tax assets $11,258 $11,600 
Deferred tax liabilities (8,976) (9,430)
Valuation allowance (2,423) (3,094)
Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) ($141) ($924)
The Company’s deferred income tax assets of $11,258 can be used in future years to offset taxable income and reduce
income taxes payable. The Company’s deferred income tax liabilities of $8,976 will partially offset deferred income tax
assets and result in higher taxable income in future years and increase income taxes payable. Tax law determines
whether future reversals of temporary differences will result in taxable and deductible amounts that offset each other in
future years. The particular years in which temporary differences result in taxable or deductible amounts generally are
determined by the timing of the recovery of the related asset or settlement of the related liability. The deferred income
tax assets and liabilities relate primarily to U.S. federal and state tax jurisdictions. From a U.S. federal tax perspective,
the Company generated a tax NOL in 2020 that was carried back to prior years when the tax rate was 35% due to the
CARES Act benefit as described above. The Company generated tax NOL and interest carryovers in 2021 that can be
carried forward indefinitely and federal research and development credits that can be carried forward 20 years.
In the fourth quarter of 2020 and throughout 2021, the Company was in a three-year cumulative pre-tax loss position.
We also normalized earnings and other comprehensive income (OCI) for certain non-recurring items and reached a
normalized three-year cumulative loss position in 2021. Adjustments to normalize earnings included non-recurring
items for certain 737 MAX expenses, an agreement with the Department of Justice, severance costs and
remeasurement gains and losses from the annual(1)
(2)
(1)     
(2)     
82
Table of Contents
remeasurement of pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. For purposes of assessing the recoverability of
deferred tax assets, the Company determined that it could not include future projected earnings in the analysis due to
recent history of losses.
As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company has recorded valuation allowances of $2,423 and $3,094 primarily
for certain federal deferred tax assets, as well as for certain federal and state net operating loss and tax credit
carryforwards. To measure the valuation allowance, the Company estimated in what year each of its deferred tax
assets and liabilities would reverse using systematic and logical methods to estimate the reversal patterns. Based on
these methods, deferred tax liabilities are assumed to reverse and generate taxable income over the next 5 to 10 years
while deferred tax assets related to pension and other postretirement benefit obligations are assumed to reverse and
generate tax deductions over the next 15 to 20 years. The valuation allowance primarily results from not having
sufficient income from deferred tax liability reversals in the appropriate future periods to support the realization of
deferred tax assets.
During 2021, the Company decreased the valuation allowance by $671. This reflects a tax benefit of $1,206 included in
OCI primarily due to the net actuarial gains that resulted from the annual remeasurement of pension assets and
liabilities. This was partially offset by tax expense of $512 recorded in continuing operations and an increase of $23
related to the associated federal benefit of state impacts.
Until the Company generates sustained levels of profitability, additional valuation allowances may have to be recorded
with corresponding adverse impacts on earnings and/or OCI.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) one-time repatriation tax and Global Intangible Low Tax Income liabilities effectively
taxed the undistributed earnings previously deferred from U.S. income taxes. We have not provided for deferred
income taxes on the undistributed earnings from certain non-U.S. subsidiaries because such earnings are considered
to be indefinitely reinvested. If such earnings were to be distributed, any deferred income taxes would not be
significant.
As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, the amounts accrued for the payment of income tax-related interest and penalties
included in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position were not significant. The amounts of interest included in
the Consolidated Statements of Operations were not significant for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and
2019.
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:
2021 2020 2019
Unrecognized tax benefits – January 1 $966 $1,476 $2,412 
Gross increases – tax positions in prior periods 64 44 100 
Gross decreases – tax positions in prior periods (245) (581) (1,418)
Gross increases – current period tax positions 73 136 344 
Gross decreases – current period tax positions (1)
Settlements (109) 39 
Statute Lapse
Unrecognized tax benefits – December 31 $858 $966 $1,476 
As of December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits include $790, $734 and
$1,287, respectively, that would affect the effective tax rate, if recognized. As of December 31, 2021, these amounts are
primarily associated with the amount of research tax credits claimed and various other matters.
83
Table of Contents
Federal income tax audits have been settled for all years prior to 2018. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) began the
2018-2019 federal tax audit in the first quarter of 2021 and recently added tax year 2020 to the audit. We are also
subject to examination in major state and international jurisdictions for the 2008-2020 tax years. We believe appropriate
provisions for all outstanding tax issues have been made for all jurisdictions and all open years.
Note 5 – Accounts Receivable, net
Accounts receivable at December 31 consisted of the following:
2021 2020
U.S. government contracts $1,180 $811 
Commercial Airplanes 279 17 
Global Services 1,456 1,437 
Defense, Space, & Security 111 120 
Other 5 14 
Less valuation allowance (390) (444)
Total $2,641 $1,955 
Includes foreign military sales through the U.S. government
Excludes U.S. government contracts
Note 6 – Allowances for Losses on Financial Assets
The change in allowances for expected credit losses for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 consisted of
the following:
Accounts
receivableUnbilled
receivablesOther Current
AssetsCustomer
financingOther
Assets Total
Balance at January 1, 2020 ($138) ($81) ($38) ($5) ($75)($337)
Changes in estimates (314) (48) (34) (12) (66) (474)
Write-offs 8 8 
Recoveries 1 1 
Balance at December 31, 2020 (444) (129) (72) (17) (140) (802)
Balance at January 1, 2021 (444) (129) (72) (17) (140) (802)
Changes in estimates (24) (11) 6 (1) (59) (89)
Write-offs 77 49 4 13 143 
Recoveries 1 1 
Balance at December 31, 2021 ($390) ($91) ($62) ($18) ($186)($747)(1)
(2)
(2)
(1)
(2)
84
Table of Contents
Note 7 – Inventories
Inventories at December 31 consisted of the following:
2021 2020
Long-term contracts in progress $872 $823 
Commercial aircraft programs 68,106 70,153 
Commercial spare parts, used aircraft, general stock materials and other 9,845 10,739 
Total $78,823 $81,715 
Commercial spare parts, used aircraft, general stock materials and other includes capitalized precontract costs of $648
at December 31, 2021 and $733 at December 31, 2020 primarily related to KC-46A Tanker and Commercial Crew. See
Note 13.
Commercial Aircraft Programs
The decrease in commercial aircraft programs inventory during 2021 reflects lower 737 MAX inventory due to
resumption of deliveries and a reach-forward loss on the 787 program. These decreases were partially offset by a
continued buildup of 787 aircraft, as well as growth in 777X inventory. Commercial aircraft programs inventory includes
approximately 335 737 MAX aircraft and 110 787 aircraft at December 31, 2021 as compared with 425 737 MAX
aircraft and 80 787 aircraft at December 31, 2020.
A number of customers have requested to defer deliveries or to cancel orders. We are currently remarketing certain
aircraft and may have to remarket additional aircraft in future periods. If we are unable to successfully remarket the
aircraft, determine further production rate reductions are necessary, and/or contract the program accounting quantities,
future earnings may be reduced and/or additional reach-forward losses may have to be recorded.
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, commercial aircraft programs inventory included the following amounts related to the
737 program: deferred production costs of $1,296 and $2,159 and unamortized tooling and other non-recurring costs of
$617 and $480. At December 31, 2021, $1,906 of 737 deferred production costs, unamortized tooling and other non-
recurring costs are expected to be recovered from units included in the program accounting quantity that have firm
orders, and $7 is expected to be recovered from units included in the program accounting quantity that represent
expected future orders.
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, commercial aircraft programs inventory included the following amounts related to the
777X program: $3,363 and $1,727 of work in process and $3,521 and $3,295 of unamortized tooling and other non-
recurring costs.
During the fourth quarter of 2020, we determined that estimated costs to complete the 777X program plus costs already
included in 777X inventory exceed estimated revenues from the program. The resulting reach-forward loss of $6,493
was recorded as a reduction to deferred production costs. As a result, 777X deferred production costs were immaterial
at December 31, 2020 and remain immaterial at December 31, 2021. The level of profitability on the 777X program will
be subject to a number of factors. These factors include continued market uncertainty, the impacts of COVID-19 on our
production system as well as impacts on our supply chain and customers, further production rate adjustments for the
777X or other commercial aircraft programs, any contraction of the accounting quantity and potential risks associated
with the testing program and the timing of aircraft certification. One or more of these factors could result in additional
reach-forward losses on the 777X program in future periods.
During the fourth quarter of 2021, we determined that estimated costs to complete the 787 program plus costs already
included in 787 inventory exceed estimated revenues from the program. The resulting reach-forward loss of $3,460
was recorded as a reduction to deferred production costs. At
85
Table of Contents
December 31, 2021 and 2020, commercial aircraft programs inventory included the following amounts related to the
787 program: deferred production costs of $11,693 and $14,976, $1,907 and $1,865 of supplier advances, and $1,815
and $1,863 of unamortized tooling and other non-recurring costs. At December 31, 2021, $9,024 of 787 deferred
production costs, unamortized tooling and other non-recurring costs are expected to be recovered from units included
in the program accounting quantity that have firm orders, and $4,484 is expected to be recovered from units included in
the program accounting quantity that represent expected future orders.
Commercial aircraft programs inventory included amounts credited in cash or other consideration (early issue sales
consideration) to airline customers totaling $3,290 and $2,992 at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Note 8 – Contracts with Customers
Unbilled receivables increased from $7,995 at December 31, 2020 to $8,620 at December 31, 2021, primarily driven by
revenue recognized at BDS and BGS in excess of billings.
Advances and progress billings increased from $50,488 at December 31, 2020 to $52,980 at December 31, 2021,
primarily driven by advances on orders received at BDS, BCA and BGS, partially offset by revenue recognized and the
return of customer advances at BCA.
Revenues recognized for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 from amounts recorded as Advances and
progress billings at the beginning of each year were $11,336 and $10,360.
The following table summarizes our contract assets under long-term contracts that were unbillable or related to
outstanding claims as of December 31:
Unbilled Claims
2021 2020 2021 2020
Current $5,870 $5,628 $4 
Expected to be collected after one year 2,841 2,496 11 $18 
Less valuation allowance (91) (129)
Total $8,620 $7,995 $15 $18 
Unbilled receivables related to commercial customer incentives expected to be collected after one year were $131 and
$178 at December 31, 2021 and 2020. Unbilled receivables related to claims are items that we believe are earned, but
are subject to uncertainty concerning their determination or ultimate realization.
86
Table of Contents
Note 9 – Customer Financing
Customer financing primarily relates to our BCC segment. Financing arrangements typically range in terms from 1 to 12
years and may include options to extend or terminate the lease. Certain leases include provisions to allow the lessee to
purchase the underlying aircraft at a specified price.
Customer financing consisted of the following at December 31:
2021 2020
Financing receivables:
Investment in sales-type/finance leases $944 $919 
Notes 412 420 
Total financing receivables 1,356 1,339 
Less allowance for losses on receivables (18) (17)
Financing receivables, net 1,338 1,322 
Operating lease equipment, at cost, less accumulated depreciation of $58 and $209 474 715 
Total $1,812 $2,037 
The components of investment in sales-type/finance leases at December 31 were as follows:
2021 2020
Minimum lease payments receivable $1,099 $756 
Estimated residual value of leased assets 110 299 
Unearned income (265) (136)
Total $944 $919 
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, $378 and $380 were determined to be uncollectible financing receivables and placed
on non-accrual status. We recorded no allowance for losses on these uncollectible financing receivables as the
collateral values exceeded the carrying values of the receivables. Customer financing interest income received for the
years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 was $18 and $34.
There were no past due customer financing receivables as of December 31, 2021.
87
Table of Contents
Our financing receivable balances at December 31 by internal credit rating category and year of origination consisted of
the following:
Rating categories Current 2020 2019 2018 2017 Prior Total
BBB $108 $108 
BB $235 $120 $42 $13 126 536 
B 76 $49 142 267 
CCC 7 26 235 177 445 
Total carrying value of financing
receivables $311 $127 $68 $13 $284 $553 $1,356 
At December 31, 2021, our allowance for losses related to receivables with ratings of CCC, B, BB and BBB. We
applied default rates that averaged 24.2%, 5.5%, 2.6% and 0.2%, respectively, to the exposure associated with those
receivables.
Customer Financing Exposure
The majority of our customer financing portfolio is concentrated in the following aircraft models at December 31:
2021 2020
717 Aircraft ($62 and $98 accounted for as operating leases) $603 $637 
747-8 Aircraft ($0 and $121 accounted for as operating leases) 435 480 
737 Aircraft ($145 and $214 accounted for as operating leases) 163 235 
777 Aircraft ($225 and $216 accounted for as operating leases) 233 225 
MD-80 Aircraft (Accounted for as sales-type finance leases) 142 167 
757 Aircraft ($0 and $4 accounted for as operating leases) 126 147 
747-400 Aircraft ($1 and $19 accounted for as operating leases) 50 71 
Operating lease equipment primarily includes large commercial jet aircraft.
Impairment charges related to customer financing operating lease assets for the years ended December 31 were as
follows:
2021 2020 2019
Boeing Capital $23 $32 $53 
Other Boeing 8 (8) 217 
Total $31 $24 $270 
Lease income recorded in Revenue on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31,
2021 and 2020 included $54 and $57 from sales-type/finance leases, and $68 and $118 from operating leases. Profit at
the commencement of sales-type leases was recorded in revenue for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 in
the amount of $78 and $26.
88
Table of Contents
As of December 31, 2021, undiscounted cash flows for notes receivable, sales-type/finance and operating leases over
the next five years and thereafter are as follows:
Notes
receivableSales-
type/finance
leasesOperating
leases
Year 1 $194 $201 $66 
Year 2 34 180 55 
Year 3 18 171 39 
Year 4 19 141 18 
Year 5 21 127 15 
Thereafter 126 279 37 
Total financing receipts 412 1,099 230 
Less imputed interest (265)
Estimated unguaranteed residual values 110 
Total $412 $944 $230 
At December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, unguaranteed residual values were $110 and $299. Guaranteed
residual values at December 31, 2021 were not significant.
Note 10 – Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment at December 31 consisted of the following:
2021 2020
Land $377 $512 
Buildings and land improvements 14,152 14,415 
Machinery and equipment 15,692 16,060 
Construction in progress 1,235 1,340 
Gross property, plant and equipment 31,456 32,327 
Less accumulated depreciation (20,538) (20,507)
Total $10,918 $11,820 
Depreciation expense was $1,488, $1,533 and $1,567 for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019,
respectively. Interest capitalized during the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 totaled $76, $81 and $83,
respectively.
During 2021 and 2020, we acquired $46 and $47 of property, plant and equipment through non-cash investing and
financing transactions. Accounts payable related to purchases of property, plant and equipment were $295 and $182
for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020.
89
Table of Contents
Note 11 – Investments
Our investments, which are recorded in Short-term and other investments or Investments, consisted of the following at
December 31:
2021 2020
Equity method investments $930 $936 
Time deposits 7,676 17,154 
Available for sale debt instruments 464 596 
Equity and other investments 45 85 
Restricted cash & cash equivalents 52 83 
Total $9,167 $18,854 
Dividends received were $77 and $149 during 2021 and 2020. Retained earnings at December 31, 2021 include
undistributed earnings from our equity method investments of $136. During the third quarter of 2021, Boeing and
AE Industrial Partners announced a strategic partnership to establish a dedicated aerospace venture fund. This
transaction resulted in the deconsolidation of HorizonX and generated a gain of $117 which is included in Income
from operating investments, net.
Reflects amounts restricted in support of our property sales, workers’ compensation programs and insurance
premiums.
Allowance for losses on available for sale debt instruments are assessed quarterly. All instruments are considered
investment grade and, as such, we have not recognized an allowance for credit losses as of December 31, 2021.
Equity Method Investments
Our equity method investments consisted of the following as of December 31:
SegmentOwnership
Percentages Investment Balance
2021 2020
United Launch AllianceBDS50% $617 $735 
Other BCA, BDS, BGS and Other 313 201 
Total equity method investments $930 $936 
Note 12 – Leases
Our operating lease assets primarily represent manufacturing and research and development facilities, warehouses
and offices. Total operating lease expense was $380 and $360 for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, of
which $73 and $71 was attributable to variable lease expenses.
For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, cash payments against operating lease liabilities totaled $301 and
$299 and non-cash transactions totaled $443 and $371 to recognize operating assets and liabilities for new leases.(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
90
Table of Contents
Supplemental Consolidated Statement of Financial Position information related to leases consisted of the following at
December 31:
2021 2020
Operating leases:
Operating lease right-of-use assets $1,437 $1,252
Current portion of lease liabilities 268 268
Non-current portion of lease liabilities 1,271 1,084
Total operating lease liabilities $1,539 $1,352
Weighted average remaining lease term (years) 13 9
Weighted average discount rate 3.82% 3.43%
Maturities of operating lease liabilities for the next five years are as follows:
Operating
leases
2022 $301 
2023 253 
2024 190 
2025 154 
2026 134 
Thereafter 1,083 
Total lease payments 2,115 
Less imputed interest (576)
Total $1,539 
As of December 31, 2021, we have entered into leases that have not yet commenced of $265, for a maintenance,
repair and overhaul hangar and a paint hangar that will support military aircraft programs. These leases will commence
between 2022 and 2023 with lease terms of 7 years to 25 years.
91
Table of Contents
Note 13 – Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies
Accrued Liabilities
Accrued liabilities at December 31 consisted of the following:
2021 2020
Accrued compensation and employee benefit costs $6,573 $7,121 
737 MAX customer concessions and other considerations 2,940 5,537 
Department of Justice agreement liability 744 
Environmental 605 565 
Product warranties 1,900 1,527 
Forward loss recognition 2,014 1,913 
Income taxes payable 5 43 
Current portion of lease liabilities 268 268 
Other 4,150 4,453 
Total $18,455 $22,171 
737 MAX Grounding
In 2019, following two fatal 737 MAX accidents, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and non-U.S. civil aviation
authorities issued orders suspending commercial operations of 737 MAX aircraft. Deliveries of the 737 MAX were
suspended following these orders. Deliveries in the U.S. resumed in late 2020 following rescission by the FAA of its
grounding order. In addition, several other non-U.S. civil aviation authorities, including the Brazilian National Civil
Aviation Agency, Transport Canada, and the European Union Aviation Safety Agency have subsequently approved
return of operations, allowing us to resume deliveries in those jurisdictions. The Civil Aviation Administration of China
issued an airworthiness directive in the fourth quarter of 2021 outlining actions required for airlines to return to service.
We expect 737 MAX deliveries to China to resume in 2022, subject to final regulatory approvals, although risk remains
around the timing and rate of those deliveries. Over 185 countries have approved the resumption of 737 MAX
operations. The 737 MAX remains grounded in a small number of non-U.S. jurisdictions.
We have gradually increased production rates in 2020 and 2021 and continue to expect to increase the production rate
to 31 per month by early 2022, as well as implement further gradual production rate increases in subsequent periods
based on market demand and supply chain capacity.
We produced at abnormally low production rates in 2020 and 2021 and expensed abnormal production costs of $1,887
and $2,567 during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. We do not expect the remaining abnormal costs
related to the 737 MAX to be significant and expect most of the remainder to be incurred in early 2022.
In 2021, we delivered 245 aircraft. We have approximately 335 airplanes in inventory as of December 31, 2021 and we
anticipate delivering most of these aircraft by the end of 2023. We continue to work with customers who have
requested to defer deliveries or to cancel orders for 737 MAX aircraft, and we are remarketing and/or delaying
deliveries of certain aircraft included within inventory. In the event that we are unable to resume aircraft deliveries in
China and/or ramp up deliveries consistent with our assumptions, our expectation of delivery timing and our
expectation regarding future gradual production rate increases could be impacted.
92
Table of Contents
We have also recorded additional expenses of $175, $416, and $328 due to the 737 MAX grounding during 2021,
2020, and 2019, respectively. The expenses include costs related to storage, inventory impairment, pilot training, and
software updates.
The following table summarizes changes in the 737 MAX customer concessions and other considerations liability
during 2021 and 2020.
2021 2020
Beginning balance – January 1 $5,537 $7,389 
Reductions for payments made (2,535) (2,188)
Reductions for concessions and other in-kind considerations (48) (162)
Changes in estimates (14) 498 
Ending balance – December 31 $2,940 $5,537 
The liability balance of $2.9 billion at December 31, 2021 includes $2.2 billion of contracted customer concessions and
other liabilities and $0.7 billion that remains subject to negotiation with customers. The contracted amount includes
$1.0 billion expected to be liquidated by lower customer delivery payments, $1.0 billion expected to be paid in cash and
$0.2 billion in other concessions. Of the cash payments to customers, we expect to pay $0.8 billion in 2022. The type of
consideration to be provided for the remaining $0.7 billion will depend on the outcomes of negotiations with customers.
Environmental
The following table summarizes environmental remediation activity during the years ended December 31, 2021 and
2020.
2021 2020
Beginning balance – January 1 $565 $570 
Reductions for payments made (59) (42)
Changes in estimates 99 37 
Ending balance – December 31 $605 $565 
The liabilities recorded represent our best estimate or the low end of a range of reasonably possible costs expected to
be incurred to remediate sites, including operation and maintenance over periods of up to 30 years. It is reasonably
possible that we may incur charges that exceed these recorded amounts because of regulatory agency orders and
directives, changes in laws and/or regulations, higher than expected costs and/or the discovery of new or additional
contamination. As part of our estimating process, we develop a range of reasonably possible alternate scenarios that
includes the high end of a range of reasonably possible cost estimates for all remediation sites for which we have
sufficient information based on our experience and existing laws and regulations. There are some potential remediation
obligations where the costs of remediation cannot be reasonably estimated. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, the high
end of the estimated range of reasonably possible remediation costs exceeded our recorded liabilities by $1,094 and
1,095.
93
Table of Contents
Product Warranties
The following table summarizes product warranty activity recorded during the years ended December 31, 2021 and
2020.
2021 2020
Beginning balance – January 1 $1,527 $1,267 
Additions for current year deliveries 116 65 
Reductions for payments made (241) (260)
Changes in estimates 498 455 
Ending balance – December 31 $1,900 $1,527 
The increase in the product warranty reserve during the year ended December 31, 2020 is primarily driven by charges
related to “pickle forks” on 737NG aircraft. During 2019, we detected cracks in the "pickle forks", a frame fitting
component of the structure connecting the wings to the fuselages of 737NG aircraft. We notified the FAA, which issued
a directive requiring that certain 737NG airplanes be inspected. In 2019, we estimated the number of aircraft that would
have to be repaired in the future and provisioned for the estimated costs of completing the repairs. During the first
quarter of 2020, we recognized charges of $336 based on revised engineering and fleet utilization estimates as well as
updated repair cost estimates. We cannot estimate a range of reasonably possible losses, if any, in excess of amounts
recognized due to the ongoing nature of the inspections and repairs and pending the completion of investigations into
the cause of the condition.
Commercial Aircraft Commitments
In conjunction with signing definitive agreements for the sale of new aircraft (Sale Aircraft), we have entered into trade-
in commitments with certain customers that give them the right to trade in used aircraft at a specified price upon the
purchase of Sale Aircraft. The probability that trade-in commitments will be exercised is determined by using both
quantitative information from valuation sources and qualitative information from other sources. The probability of
exercise is assessed quarterly, or as events trigger a change, and takes into consideration the current economic and
airline industry environments. Trade-in commitments, which can be terminated by mutual consent with the customer,
may be exercised only during the period specified in the agreement and require advance notice by the customer.
Trade-in commitment agreements at December 31, 2021 have expiration dates from 2022 through 2028. At December
31, 2021 and 2020, total contractual trade-in commitments were $612 and $950. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020,
we estimated that it was probable we would be obligated to perform on certain of these commitments with net amounts
payable to customers totaling $283 and $599, and the fair value of the related trade-in aircraft was $283 and $580.
94
Table of Contents
Financing Commitments
Financing commitments related to aircraft on order, including options and those proposed in sales campaigns, and
refinancing of delivered aircraft, totaled $12,905 and $11,512 as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. The estimated
earliest potential funding dates for these commitments as of December 31, 2021 are as follows:
Total
2022 $2,034 
2023 3,604 
2024 2,490 
2025 2,105 
2026 799 
Thereafter 1,873 
$12,905 
As of December 31, 2021, all of these financing commitments relate to customers we believe have less than
investment-grade credit. We have concluded that no reserve for future potential losses is required for these financing
commitments based upon the terms, such as collateralization and interest rates, under which funding would be
provided.
Funding Commitments
We have commitments to make additional capital contributions of $248 to joint ventures over the next six years.
Standby Letters of Credit and Surety Bonds
We have entered into standby letters of credit and surety bonds with financial institutions primarily relating to the
guarantee of our future performance on certain contracts. Contingent liabilities on outstanding letters of credit
agreements and surety bonds aggregated approximately $3,634 and $4,238 as of December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Company Owned Life Insurance
McDonnell Douglas Corporation insured its executives with Company Owned Life Insurance (COLI), which are life
insurance policies with a cash surrender value. Although we do not use COLI currently, these obligations from the
merger with McDonnell Douglas are still a commitment at this time. We have loans in place to cover costs paid or
incurred to carry the underlying life insurance policies. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, the cash surrender value
was $374 and $395 and the total loans were $360 and $382. As we have the right to offset the loans against the cash
surrender value of the policies, we present the net asset in Other assets on the Consolidated Statements of Financial
Position as of December 31, 2021 and 2020.
BDS Fixed-Price Development Contracts
We have recorded earnings charges for losses on a number of fixed-price development contracts. Fixed-price
development work is inherently uncertain and subject to significant variability in estimates of the cost and time required
to complete the work. The operational and technical complexities of these contracts create financial risk, which could
trigger additional earnings charges, termination provisions, order cancellations or other financially significant exposure.
95
Table of Contents
KC-46A Tanker
In 2011, we were awarded a contract from the U.S. Air Force (USAF) to design, develop, manufacture and deliver four
next generation aerial refueling tankers. This Engineering, Manufacturing and Development (EMD) contract is a fixed-
price incentive fee contract and involves highly complex designs and systems integration. Since 2016, the USAF has
authorized seven low rate initial production (LRIP) lots for a total of 94 aircraft. The EMD contract and authorized LRIP
lots are valued at approximately $19 billion as of December 31, 2021.
At December 31, 2021, we had approximately $243 of capitalized precontract costs and $409 of potential termination
liabilities to suppliers.
Recoverable Costs on Government Contracts
Our final incurred costs for each year are subject to audit and review for allowability by the U.S. government, which can
result in payment demands related to costs they believe should be disallowed. We work with the U.S. government to
assess the merits of claims and where appropriate reserve for amounts disputed. If we are unable to satisfactorily
resolve disputed costs, we could be required to record an earnings charge and/or provide refunds to the U.S.
government.
Severance
The following table summarizes changes in the severance liability during 2021 and 2020:
2021 2020
Beginning balance – January 1 $283 
Initial liability recorded in the second quarter of 2020 $652 
Reductions for payments made (90) (658)
Changes in estimates (182) 289 
Ending balance – December 31 $11 $283 
During 2020, the Company recorded severance costs for approximately 26,000 employees expected to leave the
Company through a combination of voluntary and involuntary terminations. The severance packages are consistent
with the Company’s ongoing compensation and benefits plans. During the first quarter of 2021, we reduced the
estimated number of employees expected to leave the Company through voluntary and involuntary terminations to
approximately 23,000. During the second quarter of 2021, we further reduced the estimated number of employees
expected to leave the company through voluntary and involuntary terminations to approximately 19,000. As of
December 31, 2021, our severance liability primarily relates to remaining severance payments to terminated
employees.
96
Table of Contents
Note 14 – Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk
We enter into arrangements with off-balance sheet risk in the normal course of business, primarily in the form of
guarantees.
The following table provides quantitative data regarding our third party guarantees. The maximum potential payments
represent a “worst-case scenario” and do not necessarily reflect amounts that we expect to pay. Estimated proceeds
from collateral and recourse represent the anticipated values of assets we could liquidate or receive from other parties
to offset our payments under guarantees. The carrying amount of liabilities represents the amount included in Accrued
liabilities.
Maximum
Potential
PaymentsEstimated
Proceeds from
Collateral/
RecourseCarrying
Amount of
Liabilities
December 31, 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020
Contingent repurchase commitments $548 $1,452 $548 $1,452 
Credit guarantees 90 90 28 28 $24 $24 
Contingent Repurchase Commitments The commercial aircraft repurchase price specified in contingent repurchase
commitments is generally lower than the expected fair value at the specified repurchase date. Estimated proceeds from
collateral/recourse in the table above represent the lower of the contracted repurchase price or the expected fair value
of each aircraft at the specified repurchase date.
Credit Guarantees We have issued credit guarantees where we are obligated to make payments to a guaranteed
party in the event that the original lessee or debtor does not make payments or perform certain specified services.
Generally, these guarantees have been extended on behalf of guaranteed parties with less than investment-grade
credit and are collateralized by certain assets. Current outstanding credit guarantees expire through 2036.
Industrial Revenue Bonds Industrial Revenue Bonds (IRB) issued by St. Louis County were used to finance the
purchase and/or construction of real and personal property at our St. Louis site. Tax benefits associated with IRBs
include a twelve-year property tax abatement and sales tax exemption from St. Louis County. We record these
properties on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. We have also purchased the IRBs and therefore are
the bondholders as well as the borrower/lessee of the properties purchased with the IRB proceeds. The liabilities and
IRB assets are equal and are reported net in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. As of December 31,
2021 and 2020, the assets and liabilities associated with the IRBs were $271.
Other Indemnifications In conjunction with our sales of Electron Dynamic Devices, Inc. and Rocketdyne Propulsion
and Power businesses and our BCA facilities in Wichita, Kansas and Tulsa and McAlester, Oklahoma, we agreed to
indemnify, for an indefinite period, the buyers for costs relating to pre-closing environmental conditions and certain
other items. We are unable to assess the potential number of future claims that may be asserted under these
indemnifications, nor the amounts thereof (if any). As a result, we cannot estimate the maximum potential amount of
future payments under these indemnities and therefore, no liability has been recorded. To the extent that claims have
been made under these indemnities and/or are probable and reasonably estimable, liabilities associated with these
indemnities are included in the environmental liability disclosure in Note 13.
97
Table of Contents
Note 15 – Debt
In the first quarter of 2021, we issued $9,825 of fixed rate senior notes consisting of $1,325 due February 4, 2023 that
bear an annual interest rate of 1.167%, $3,000 due February 4, 2024 that bear an annual interest rate of 1.433%, and
$5,500 due February 4, 2026 that bear an annual interest rate of 2.196%. The notes are unsecured senior obligations
and rank equally in right of payment with our existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. The net
proceeds of the issuance totaled $9,780, after deducting underwriting discounts, commissions and offering expenses.
We used the net proceeds of these note issuances to repay $9,825 outstanding under our two-year delayed draw term
loan credit agreement in the first quarter of 2021, and we repaid the remaining $4,000 in the fourth quarter of 2021.
Interest incurred, including amounts capitalized, was $2,790, $2,280 and $867 for the years ended December 31, 2021,
2020 and 2019, respectively. Interest expense recorded by BCC is reflected as Boeing Capital interest expense on our
Consolidated Statements of Operations. Total Company interest payments were $2,583, $1,925 and $973 for the years
ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
In the first quarter of 2021, we entered into a $5,280 two-year revolving credit agreement. As of December 31, 2021,
we had $14,740 currently available under credit line agreements, of which $3,060 is a 364-day revolving credit facility
expiring in October 2022, $3,200 expires in October 2022, $5,280 expires in March 2023 and $3,200 expires in October
2024. The 364-day credit facility has a one-year term out option which allows us to extend the maturity of any
borrowings one year beyond the aforementioned expiration date. We continue to be in full compliance with all
covenants contained in our debt or credit facility agreements.
Short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt at December 31 consisted of the following:
2021 2020
Unsecured debt $1,155 $1,448 
Finance lease obligations 61 65 
Other notes 80 180 
Total $1,296 $1,693 
98
Table of Contents
Debt at December 31 consisted of the following:
2021 2020
Unsecured debt
Variable rate: Eurodollar plus 0.75% - 1.25% due 2022 $13,819 
1.17% - 2.50% due through 2026 $12,404 3,656 
2.60% - 3.20% due through 2030 7,001 6,989 
3.25% - 3.90% due through 2059 9,570 9,555 
3.95% - 5.15% due through 2059 13,993 13,917 
5.71% - 6.63% due through 2060 13,008 13,005 
6.88% - 8.75% due through 2043 1,853 2,252 
Other debt and notes
Finance lease obligations due through 2044 180 203 
Other notes 93 187 
Total debt $58,102 $63,583 
Total debt at December 31 is attributable to:
2021 2020
BCC $1,525 $1,640 
Other Boeing 56,577 61,943 
Total debt $58,102 $63,583 
Scheduled principal payments for debt and minimum finance lease obligations for the next five years are as follows:
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
Debt $1,236 $5,101 $5,066 $4,302 $7,952 
Minimum finance lease obligations $64 $43 $25 $14 $6 
Note 16 – Postretirement Plans
Many of our employees have earned benefits under defined benefit pension plans. Nonunion and the majority of union
employees that had participated in defined benefit pension plans transitioned to a company-funded defined contribution
retirement savings plan in 2016. Additional union employees transitioned to company-funded defined contribution
retirement savings plans effective January 1, 2019.
We fund our major pension plans through trusts. Pension assets are placed in trust solely for the benefit of the plans’
participants and are structured to maintain liquidity that is sufficient to pay benefit obligations as well as to keep pace
over the long-term with the growth of obligations for future benefit payments.
We also have other postretirement benefits (OPB) other than pensions which consist principally of health care
coverage for eligible retirees and qualifying dependents, and to a lesser extent, life insurance to certain groups of
retirees. Retiree health care is provided principally until age 65 for approximately three-fourths of those participants
who are eligible for health care coverage. Certain employee groups, including employees covered by most United Auto
Workers bargaining agreements, are provided lifetime health care coverage. The funded status of the plans is
measured as the
99
Table of Contents
difference between the plan assets at fair value and the projected benefit obligation (PBO). We have recognized the
aggregate of all overfunded plans in Other assets and the aggregate of all underfunded plans in either Accrued retiree
health care or Accrued pension plan liability, net. The portion of the amount by which the actuarial present value of
benefits included in the PBO exceeds the fair value of plan assets, payable in the next 12 months, is reflected in
Accrued liabilities.
The components of net periodic benefit (income)/cost were as follows:
Pension Other Postretirement Benefits
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 2021 2020 2019
Service cost $3 $3 $2 $87 $89 $77 
Interest cost 1,988 2,455 2,925 97 130 196 
Expected return on plan assets (3,848) (3,756) (3,863) (7) (9) (8)
Amortization of prior service credits (80) (80) (79) (35) (38) (35)
Recognized net actuarial loss/(gain) 1,219 1,032 643 (56) (63) (46)
Settlement/curtailment loss/(gain) 193 9 (4)
Net periodic benefit (income)/cost ($525) ($337) ($372) $86 $105 $184 
Net periodic benefit cost included in Loss
from operations $3 $3 $313 $90 $91 $88 
Net periodic benefit (income)/cost included in
Other income, net (528) (340) (374) (1) 16 107 
Net periodic benefit (income)/cost included
in Loss before income taxes ($525) ($337) ($61) $89 $107 $195 
In 2021, we recorded a $193 settlement charge in Other income, net and remeasured assets and benefit obligations
related to three of the Company’s pension plans.
The following tables show changes in the benefit obligation, plan assets and funded status of both pensions and OPB
for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. Benefit obligation balances presented below reflect the PBO for our
pension plans and accumulated postretirement benefit obligations (APBO) for our OPB plans.
100
Table of Contents
PensionOther Postretirement
Benefits
2021 2020 2021 2020
Change in benefit obligation
Beginning balance $82,415 $77,645 $4,693 $5,080 
Service cost 3 3 87 89 
Interest cost 1,988 2,455 97 130 
Amendments (29)
Actuarial (gain)/loss (3,249) 7,759 (401) (218)
Settlement/other (870) (68) 55 
Gross benefits paid (4,653) (5,386) (411) (450)
Subsidies 26 36 
Exchange rate adjustment 1 7 1 
Ending balance $75,635 $82,415 $4,092 $4,693 
Change in plan assets
Beginning balance at fair value $68,696 $61,711 $160 $149 
Actual return on plan assets 4,477 9,275 21 21 
Company contribution 11 3,013 
Plan participants’ contributions 6 6 
Settlement payments (870) (68)
Benefits paid (4,502) (5,241) (15) (16)
Exchange rate adjustment 1 6 
Ending balance at fair value $67,813 $68,696 $172 $160 
Amounts recognized in statement of financial position at
December 31 consist of:
Other assets $1,426 $837 
Accrued liabilities (144) (148) ($392) ($396)
Accrued retiree health care (3,528) (4,137)
Accrued pension plan liability, net (9,104) (14,408)
Net amount recognized ($7,822) ($13,719) ($3,920) ($4,533)
Amounts recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive loss at December 31 were as follows:
PensionOther Postretirement
Benefits
2021 2020 2021 2020
Net actuarial loss/(gain) $19,031 $24,324 ($1,092) ($735)
Prior service credits (1,306) (1,387) (76) (110)
Total recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive loss $17,725 $22,937 ($1,168) ($845)
101
Table of Contents
The accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) for all pension plans was $74,199 and $80,694 at December 31, 2021 and
2020. Key information for our plans with ABO and PBO in excess of plan assets as of December 31 was as follows:
2021 2020
Accumulated benefit obligation $66,406 $74,337 
Fair value of plan assets 58,593 61,502 
2021 2020
Projected benefit obligation $67,841 $76,057 
Fair value of plan assets 58,593 61,502 
Assumptions
The following assumptions, which are the weighted average for all plans, are used to calculate the benefit obligation at
December 31 of each year and the net periodic benefit cost for the subsequent year.
December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Discount rate:
Pension 2.80 % 2.50 % 3.30 %
Other postretirement benefits 2.50 % 2.00 % 3.00 %
Expected return on plan assets 6.30 % 6.50 % 6.80 %
Rate of compensation increase 4.30 % 4.30 % 4.30 %
Interest crediting rates for cash balance plans 5.00 % 5.00 % 5.15 %
The discount rate for each plan is determined based on the plans’ expected future benefit payments using a yield curve
developed from high quality bonds that are rated as Aa or better by at least half of the four rating agencies utilized as of
the measurement date. The yield curve is fitted to yields developed from bonds at various maturity points. Bonds with
the ten percent highest and the ten percent lowest yields are omitted. The present value of each plan’s benefits is
calculated by applying the discount rates to projected benefit cash flows.
The pension fund’s expected return on plan assets assumption is derived from a review of actual historical returns
achieved by the pension trust and anticipated future long-term performance of individual asset classes. While
consideration is given to historical returns, the assumption represents a long-term, prospective return. The expected
return on plan assets component of the net periodic benefit cost for the upcoming plan year is determined based on the
expected return on plan assets assumption and the market-related value of plan assets (MRVA). Since our adoption of
the accounting standard for pensions in 1987, we have determined the MRVA based on a five-year moving average of
plan assets. As of December 31, 2021, the MRVA was approximately $4,773 less than the fair market value of assets.
Assumed health care cost trend rates were as follows:
December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Health care cost trend rate assumed next year 4.50 % 4.50 % 5.00 %
Ultimate trend rate 4.50 % 4.50 % 4.50 %
Year that trend reached ultimate rate 2021 2021 2021
102
Table of Contents
Plan Assets
Investment Strategy The overall objective of our pension assets is to earn a rate of return over time to satisfy the
benefit obligations of the pension plans and to maintain sufficient liquidity to pay benefits and address other cash
requirements of the pension fund. Specific investment objectives for our long-term investment strategy include reducing
the volatility of pension assets relative to pension liabilities, achieving a competitive total investment return, achieving
diversification between and within asset classes and managing other risks. Investment objectives for each asset class
are determined based on specific risks and investment opportunities identified.
We periodically update our long-term, strategic asset allocations. We use various analytics to determine the optimal
asset mix and consider plan liability characteristics, liquidity characteristics, funding requirements, expected rates of
return and the distribution of returns. A key element of our strategy is to de-risk the plan as the funded status of the plan
increases. During 2021, as the funded status of the plans increased, certain assets were reallocated to fixed income.
The changes in the asset allocation are reflected in the asset allocation table below. We identify investment
benchmarks to evaluate performance for the asset classes in the strategic asset allocation that are market-based and
investable where possible. Actual allocations to each asset class vary from target allocations due to periodic investment
strategy changes, market value fluctuations, the length of time it takes to fully implement investment allocation
positions, and the timing of benefit payments and contributions. Short-term investments and exchange-traded
derivatives are used to rebalance the actual asset allocation to the target asset allocation. The asset allocation is
monitored and rebalanced frequently. The actual and target allocations by asset class for the pension assets at
December 31 were as follows:
Actual Allocations Target Allocations
Asset Class 2021 2020 2021 2020
Fixed income 61 % 49 % 63 % 49 %
Global equity 16 30 20 29 
Private equity 8 6 4 5 
Real estate and real assets 8 7 7 9 
Hedge funds 7 8 6 8 
Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 %
Fixed income securities are invested primarily in a diversified portfolio of long duration instruments as well as Emerging
Market, Structured, High Yield and Private Debt. Global equity securities are invested in a diversified portfolio of U.S.
and non-U.S. companies, across various industries and market capitalizations.
Private equity investment vehicles are primarily limited partnerships (LPs) that mainly invest in U.S. and non-U.S.
leveraged buyout, venture capital, growth and special situation strategies. Real estate and real assets include global
private investments that may be held through investments in a limited partnership (LP) or other fund structures and
publicly traded investments (such as Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) in the case of real estate). Real estate
includes, but is not limited to, investments in office, retail, apartment and industrial properties. Real assets include, but
are not limited to, investments in natural resources (such as energy, farmland and timber), commodities and
infrastructure.
Hedge fund investments seek to capitalize on inefficiencies identified across and within different asset classes or
markets. Hedge fund strategy types include, but are not limited to, directional, event driven, relative value and long-
short.
103
Table of Contents
Investment managers are retained for explicit investment roles specified by contractual investment guidelines. Certain
investment managers are authorized to use derivatives, such as equity or bond futures, swaps, options and currency
futures or forwards. Derivatives are used to achieve the desired market exposure of a security or an index, transfer
value-added performance between asset classes, achieve the desired currency exposure, adjust portfolio duration or
rebalance the total portfolio to the target asset allocation.
As a percentage of total pension assets, derivative net notional amounts were 33.4% and 8.3% for fixed income,
including to-be-announced mortgage-backed securities and treasury forwards, and (5.4%) and 0.4% for global equity
and commodities at December 31, 2021 and 2020.
In November 2020, the Company contributed $3,000 of our common stock to the pension fund. An independent
fiduciary was retained to manage and liquidate the stock over time at its discretion. Plan assets included $1,883 and
$3,298 of our common stock as of December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Risk Management In managing the pension assets, we review and manage risk associated with funded status risk,
interest rate risk, market risk, counterparty risk, liquidity risk and operational risk. Liability matching and asset class
diversification are central to our risk management approach and are integral to the overall investment strategy. Further,
asset classes are constructed to achieve diversification by investment strategy, by investment manager, by industry or
sector and by holding. Investment manager guidelines for publicly traded assets are specified and are monitored
regularly through the custodian. Credit parameters for counterparties have been established for managers permitted to
trade over-the-counter derivatives. Valuation is governed through several types of procedures, including reviews of
manager valuation policies, custodian valuation processes, pricing vendor practices, pricing reconciliation and periodic,
security-specific valuation testing.
Fair Value Measurements The following table presents our plan assets using the fair value hierarchy as of December
31, 2021 and 2020. The fair value hierarchy has three levels based on the reliability of the inputs used to determine fair
value. Level 1 refers to fair values determined based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets. Level 2
refers to fair values estimated using significant other observable inputs and Level 3 includes fair values estimated using
significant unobservable inputs.
104
Table of Contents
December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Fixed income securities:
Corporate $20,573  $20,520  $53 $20,841  $20,801  $40 
U.S. government and agencies 11,285  11,285  5,170  5,168  2 
Mortgage backed and asset
backed 777 675 102 786 666 120 
Municipal 1,064  1,035  29 1,176  1,104  72 
Sovereign 1,135  1,126  9 1,040  1,038  2 
Other 3 $3 19 $18 1 
Derivatives:
Assets 62 62 6 6 
Liabilities (48) (48) (17) (17)
Cash equivalents and other short-
term investments 448 448 1,081  1,081  
Equity securities:
U.S. common and preferred stock 4,463  4,463  5,013  5,013  
Non-U.S. common and preferred
stock 3,345  3,340  5 5,577  5,575  2 
Boeing company stock 1,883  1,883  3,298  3,298  
Derivatives:
Assets 1 1 10 10 
Liabilities (1) (1) (9) (9)
Private equity
Real estate and real assets:
Real estate 413 413 351 351 
Real assets 784 749 35 786 723 61 2 
Derivatives:
Assets 8 8 6 6 
Liabilities (2) (2) (2) (2)
Total $46,193  $10,851  $35,144  $198 $45,132  $14,978  $29,914  $240 
Fixed income
common/collective/pooled funds $1,712  $2,345  
Fixed income other 747 604 
Equity common/collective/ pooled
funds 4,561  6,947  
Private equity 5,100  4,013  
Real estate and real assets 3,952  3,359  
Hedge funds 4,717  5,745  
Total investments measured at NA V
as a practical expedient $20,789  $23,013  
Cash $520 $267 
Receivables 454 992 
Payables (143) (708)   
Total $67,813  $68,696  
Fixed income securities are primarily valued upon a market approach, using matrix pricing and considering a security’s
relationship to other securities for which quoted prices in an active market may be available, or an income approach,
converting future cash flows to a single present value amount.
105
Table of Contents
Inputs used in developing fair value estimates include reported trades, broker quotes, benchmark yields and base
spreads.
Common/collective/pooled funds are typically common or collective trusts valued at their net asset values (NAVs) that
are calculated by the investment manager or sponsor of the fund and have daily or monthly liquidity. Derivatives
included in the table above are over-the-counter and are primarily valued using an income approach with inputs that
include benchmark yields, swap curves, cash flow analysis, rating agency data and interdealer broker rates. Exchange-
traded derivative positions are reported in accordance with changes in daily variation margin which is settled daily and
therefore reflected in the payables and receivables portion of the table.
Cash equivalents and other short-term investments (which are used to pay benefits) are held in a separate account
which consists of a commingled fund (with daily liquidity) and separately held short-term securities and cash
equivalents. All of the investments in this cash vehicle are valued daily using a market approach with inputs that include
quoted market prices for similar instruments. In the event a market price is not available for instruments with an original
maturity of one year or less, amortized cost is used as a proxy for fair value. Common and preferred stock equity
securities are primarily valued using a market approach based on the quoted market prices of identical instruments.
Private equity and private debt NAV valuations are based on the valuation of the underlying investments, which include
inputs such as cost, operating results, discounted future cash flows and market based comparable data. For those
investments reported on a one-quarter lagged basis (primarily LPs) we use NAVs, adjusted for subsequent cash flows
and significant events.
Real estate and real asset NAVs are based on the valuation of the underlying investments, which include inputs such
as cost, discounted future cash flows, independent appraisals and market based comparable data. For those
investments reported on a one-quarter lagged basis (primarily LPs), NAVs are adjusted for subsequent cash flows and
significant events. Publicly traded REITs and infrastructure stocks are valued using a market approach based on
quoted market prices of identical instruments. Exchange-traded commodities futures positions are reported in
accordance with changes in daily variation margin which is settled daily and therefore reflected in the payables and
receivables portion of the table.
Hedge fund NAVs are generally based on the valuation of the underlying investments. This is primarily done by
applying a market or income valuation methodology depending on the specific type of security or instrument held.
Investments in private equity, private debt, real estate, real assets and hedge funds are primarily calculated and
reported by the General Partner, fund manager or third party administrator. Additionally, some investments in fixed
income and equity are made via commingled vehicles and are valued in a similar fashion. Pension assets invested in
commingled and limited partnership structures rely on the NAV of these investments as the practical expedient for the
valuations.
106
Table of Contents
The following tables present a reconciliation of Level 3 assets held during the years ended December 31, 2021 and
2020. Transfers into and out of Level 3 are reported at the beginning-of-year values.
January 1
2021
BalanceNet Realized and
Unrealized
Gains/(Losses)Net Purchases,
Issuances and
SettlementsNet Transfers
Into/(Out of)
Level 3December 31
2021 Balance
Fixed income securities:
Corporate $40 ($1) $5 $9 $53 
 U.S. government and
    agencies 2 (2)
Mortgage backed and
   asset backed 120 (17) (1) 102 
Municipal 72 7 (50) 29 
Sovereign 2 (8) 15 9 
Equity securities:
Non-U.S. common and
   preferred stock 2 2 (3) 4 5 
Real assets 2 (2)
Total $240 ($7) $5 ($40) $198 
January 1
2020
BalanceNet Realized and
Unrealized
Gains/(Losses)Net Purchases,
Issuances and
SettlementsNet Transfers
Into/(Out of)
Level 3December 31
2020 Balance
Fixed income securities:
  Corporate $5 $1 $18 $16 $40 
U.S. government and
agencies 2 2 
Mortgage backed and
asset backed 461 (1) (93) (247) 120 
Municipal 3 2 67 72 
Sovereign (1) 2 1 2 
Equity securities:
Non-U.S. common and
preferred stock 2 2 
Real assets 4 (2) 2 
Total $472 $2 ($71) ($163) $240 
For the year ended December 31, 2021, the changes in unrealized gains/(losses) for Level 3 assets still held at
December 31, 2021 were ($1) for mortgage backed and asset backed fixed income securities and ($8) for sovereign.
For the year ended December 31, 2020, the changes in unrealized gains/(losses) for Level 3 assets still held at
December 31, 2020 were $2 for corporate, $1 for mortgage backed and asset backed fixed income securities, $3 for
municipal bonds and ($1) for sovereign.
OPB Plan Assets The majority of OPB plan assets are invested in a balanced index fund which is comprised of
approximately 60% equities and 40% debt securities. The index fund is valued using a
107
Table of Contents
market approach based on the quoted market price of an identical instrument (Level 1). The expected rate of return on
these assets does not have a material effect on the net periodic benefit cost.
Cash Flows
Contributions Required pension contributions under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), as well
as rules governing funding of our non-US pension plans, are not expected to be significant in 2022. During the fourth
quarter of 2020, we contributed $3,000 in common stock to the pension fund. We do not expect to make discretionary
contributions to our pension plans in 2022.
Estimated Future Benefit Payments The table below reflects the total pension benefits expected to be paid from the
plans or from our assets, including both our share of the benefit cost and the participants’ share of the cost, which is
funded by participant contributions. OPB payments reflect our portion only.
Year(s) 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027-2031
Pensions $4,839 $4,723 $4,657 $4,578 $4,481 $20,713 
Other postretirement benefits:
Gross benefits paid 450 425 404 380 356 1,385 
Subsidies (29) (29) (29) (27) (27) (124)
Net other postretirement benefits $421 $396 $375 $353 $329 $1,261 
Termination Provisions
Certain of the pension plans provide that, in the event there is a change in control of the Company which is not
approved by the Board of Directors and the plans are terminated within five years thereafter, the assets in the plan first
will be used to provide the level of retirement benefits required by ERISA, and then any surplus will be used to fund a
trust to continue present and future payments under the postretirement medical and life insurance benefits in our group
insurance benefit programs.
Should we terminate certain pension plans under conditions in which the plan’s assets exceed that plan’s obligations,
the U.S. government will be entitled to a fair allocation of any of the plan’s assets based on plan contributions that were
reimbursed under U.S. government contracts.
Defined Contribution Plans
We provide certain defined contribution plans to all eligible employees. The principal plans are the Company-sponsored
401(k) plans. The expense for these defined contribution plans was $1,268, $1,351 and $1,533 in 2021, 2020 and
2019, respectively.
Note 17 – Share-Based Compensation and Other Compensation Arrangements
Share-Based Compensation
Our 2003 Incentive Stock Plan, as amended and restated, permits awards of incentive and non-qualified stock options,
stock appreciation rights, restricted stock or units, performance shares, performance restricted stock or units,
performance units and other stock and cash-based awards to our employees, officers, directors, consultants, and
independent contractors. The aggregate number of shares of our stock authorized for issuance under the plan is
87,000,000.
Shares issued as a result of stock option exercises or conversion of stock unit awards will be funded out of treasury
shares, except to the extent there are insufficient treasury shares, in which case new shares will be issued. We believe
we currently have adequate treasury shares to satisfy these issuances during 2022.
108
Table of Contents
Share-based plans expense is primarily included in Total costs and expenses and General and administrative expense,
as well as a portion allocated to production as inventoried costs. The share-based plans expense and related income
tax benefit were as follows:
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Recognized in Loss from operations $667 $243 $217 
Recognized in Inventories $173 
Income tax benefit $148 $53 $47 
Stock Options
On February 17, 2021, we granted 342,986 premium-priced stock options to our executive officers as part of our long-
term incentive program. These stock options have an exercise price equal to 120% of the fair market value of our stock
on the date of grant. The stock options are scheduled to vest and become exercisable three years after the grant date
and expire ten years after the grant date. If an executive terminates employment because of retirement, layoff, disability
or death, the executive (or beneficiary) may receive some or all of their stock options depending on certain age and
service conditions. The fair value of the stock options granted was $74.63 per unit and was estimated using a Monte-
Carlo simulation model using the following assumptions: expected life 6.6 years, expected volatility 37.8%, risk free
interest rate 1.3% and no expected dividend yield. During 2021, we also granted 148,322 stock options to certain
executives to encourage retention or to award various achievements, of which 40,322 had an exercise price equal to
120% of the fair market value of our stock on the date of grant, and the remaining 108,000 had an exercise price equal
to the fair market value on the date of grant. These stock options are scheduled to vest and become exercisable three
years after the grant date and expire ten years after the grant date. The grant date fair market value of these awards
was not significant.
Options granted through January 2014 had an exercise price equal to the fair market value of our stock on the date of
grant and expire 10 years after the date of grant. These stock options vested over a period of three years and were fully
vested as of December 31, 2017.
Stock option activity for the year ended December 31, 2021 is as follows:
SharesWeighted Average
Exercise Price Per
ShareWeighted Average
Remaining
Contractual Life
(Years)Aggregate
Intrinsic Value
Number of shares under option:
Outstanding at beginning of year 1,860,520 $75.71 
Granted 491,308 250.80 
Exercised (570,862) 73.93 
Expired (26,663) 75.13 
Forfeited (44,924) 258.83 
Outstanding at end of year 1,709,379 $121.83 3.1 $158 
Exercisable at end of year 1,262,995 $76.53 0.8 $158 
The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 was $84, $90
and $279, with a related tax benefit of $19, $32 and $61, respectively. At December 31, 2021, there was $19 of total
unrecognized compensation cost related to options which is expected
109
Table of Contents
to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.5 years. No options vested during the years ended December 31,
2021, 2020 and 2019.
Restricted Stock Units
In February 2021, 2020 and 2019, we granted to our executives 980,077, 325,108 and 233,582 restricted stock units
(RSUs) as part of our long-term incentive program with grant date fair values of $215.70, $319.04 and $428.22 per unit,
respectively. During 2021, we also granted 47,430 RSUs as part of this long-term incentive program. The RSUs
granted under this program will generally vest and settle in common stock (on a one-for-one basis) on the third
anniversary of the grant date. If an executive terminates employment because of retirement, layoff, disability or death,
the employee (or beneficiary) may receive a proration of stock units based on active employment during the three-year
service period or all of their stock units depending on certain age and service conditions. In all other cases, the RSUs
will not vest and all rights to the stock units will terminate. These RSUs are labeled executive long-term incentive
program in the table below.
In December 2020, we granted to our employees (excluding executives and certain union-represented employees), a
one-time grant of 5,163,425 RSUs with a grant date fair value of $233.00 per unit. The RSUs granted under this
program will vest and settle in common stock (on a one-for-one basis) on the third anniversary of the grant date. If an
employee terminates employment because of retirement, layoff, disability or death, the employee (or beneficiary) may
receive a proration of stock units based on active employment during the three-year service period. In all other cases,
the RSUs will not vest and all rights to the stock units will terminate. These RSUs are labeled employee long-term
incentive program in the table below.
In addition to RSUs awarded under our long-term incentive programs, we grant RSUs to certain executives and
employees to encourage retention or to reward various achievements. These RSUs are labeled other RSUs in the table
below.
The fair values of all RSUs are estimated using the average of the high and low stock prices on the date of grant.
RSU activity for the year ended December 31, 2021 was as follows:
Executive Long-
Term Incentive
ProgramEmployee Long-
Term Incentive
Program Other
Number of units:
Outstanding at beginning of year 1,423,601 5,163,425 749,319 
Granted 1,027,507 216,782 
Forfeited (205,400) (378,881) (33,563)
Distributed (196,013) (3,820) (233,672)
Outstanding at end of year 2,049,695 4,780,724 698,866 
Undistributed vested units 344,125 985,427 16,212 
Unrecognized compensation cost $258 $573 $67 
Weighted average remaining amortization period (years) 1.9 1.9 1.9
110
Table of Contents
Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units
Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units (PBRSUs) are stock units that pay out based on the Company’s total
shareholder return (TSR) as compared to a group of peer companies over a three-year period. The award payout can
range from 0% to 200% of the initial PBRSU grant. The PBRSUs granted under this program will vest at the payout
amount and settle in common stock (on a one-for-one basis) on the third anniversary of the grant date. If an executive
terminates employment because of retirement, layoff, disability or death, the employee (or beneficiary) remains eligible
under the award and, if the award is earned, will receive a proration of stock units based on active employment during
the three-year service period. In all other cases, the PBRSUs will not vest and all rights to the stock units will terminate.
In February 2020 and 2019, we granted to our executives 290,202 and 214,651 PBRSUs as part of our long-term
incentive program. Compensation expense for the award is recognized over the three-year performance period based
upon the grant date fair value. The grant date fair values were estimated using a Monte-Carlo simulation model with the
assumptions presented below. The model includes no expected dividend yield as the units earn dividend equivalents.
Grant Year Grant DatePerformance
PeriodExpected VolatilityRisk Free Interest
RateGrant Date Fair
Value
2020 2/24/2020 3 years 27.04 % 1.21 % $357.38 
2019 2/25/2019 3 years 23.88 % 2.46 % 466.04 
PBRSU activity for the year ended December 31, 2021 was as follows:
Executive Long-Term
Incentive Program
Number of units:
Outstanding at beginning of year 621,559 
Performance based adjustment (203,331)
Forfeited (34,827)
Outstanding at end of year 383,401 
Unrecognized compensation cost $36 
Weighted average remaining amortization period (years) 1.1
Represents net number of units adjusted at vesting based on TSR for units granted in 2018.
Performance Awards
During 2020 and 2019, we granted Performance Awards to our executives, which are cash units that pay out based on
the achievement of long-term financial goals at the end of a three-year period. Each unit has an initial value of $100
dollars. The amount payable at the end of the three-year performance period may be anywhere from $0 to $200 dollars
per unit for the 2019 Performance Awards and $0 to $150 dollars for 2020 Performance Awards, depending on the
Company’s performance against plan for a three-year period. The Compensation Committee has the discretion to pay
these awards in cash, stock or a combination of both after the three-year performance period. Compensation expense,
based on the estimated performance payout, is recognized ratably over the performance period.
The minimum payout amount is $0, and the maximum amount we could be required to pay out for the 2020 and 2019
Performance Awards is $253 and $323.(1)
(1)    
111
Table of Contents
Deferred Compensation
The Company has deferred compensation plans which permit certain employees and executives to defer a portion of
their salary, bonus, certain other incentive awards and retirement contributions. Participants can diversify these
amounts among 23 investment funds including a Boeing stock unit account.
Total expense related to deferred compensation was $126, $93 and $174 in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. As of
December 31, 2021 and 2020, the deferred compensation liability which is being marked to market was $1,703 and
$1,718.
Note 18 – Shareholders’ Equity
On December 17, 2018, the Board approved a repurchase plan for up to $20,000 of common stock. In March 2020, the
Board of Directors terminated its prior authorization to repurchase shares under this plan.
As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, there were 1,200,000,000 shares of common stock and 20,000,000 shares of
preferred stock authorized. No preferred stock has been issued.
Changes in Share Balances
The following table shows changes in each class of shares:
Common
StockTreasury
Stock
Balance at January 1, 2019 1,012,261,159 444,619,970 
Issued (2,797,002)
Acquired 7,529,437 
Balance at December 31, 2019 1,012,261,159 449,352,405 
Issued (19,986,868)
Acquired 575,484 
Balance at December 31, 2020 1,012,261,159 429,941,021 
Issued (6,904,556)
Acquired 307,242 
Balance at December 31, 2021 1,012,261,159 423,343,707 
112
Table of Contents
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
Changes in Accumulated other comprehensive loss (AOCI) by component for the years ended December 31, 2021,
2020 and 2019 were as follows:
Currency
Translation
AdjustmentsUnrealized
Gains and
Losses on
Certain
InvestmentsUnrealized
Gains and
Losses on
Derivative
InstrumentsDefined Benefit
Pension Plans &
Other
Postretirement
Benefits Total 
Balance at January 1, 2019 ($101) ($62) ($14,920) ($15,083)
Other comprehensive (loss)/income before
reclassifications (27) $1 (48) (1,397) (1,471)
Amounts reclassified from AOCI 26 375 401 
Net current period Other comprehensive
(loss)/income (27) 1 (22) (1,022) (1,070)
Balance at December 31, 2019 ($128) $1 ($84) ($15,942) ($16,153)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) before
reclassifications 98 14 (1,929) (1,817)
Amounts reclassified from AOCI 27 810 837 
Net current period Other comprehensive
income/(loss) 98 41 (1,119) (980)
Balance at December 31, 2020 ($30) $1 ($43) ($17,061) ($17,133)
Other comprehensive (loss)/income before
reclassifications (75) 55 4,268 4,248 
Amounts reclassified from AOCI (6) 1,232 1,226 
Net current period Other comprehensive
(loss)/income (75) 49 5,500 5,474 
Balance at December 31, 2021 ($105) $1 $6 ($11,561) ($11,659)
Net of tax.
Primarily relates to remeasurement of assets and benefit obligations related to the Company's pension and other
postretirement benefit plans resulting in an actuarial gain/(loss) of $4,262, ($1,956) and ($1,413) (net of tax of
($32), $111 and $405) for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. See Note 16.
Primarily relates to amortization of actuarial losses for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 totaling
$1,155, $917 and $464 (net of tax of ($8), ($52) and ($133)), respectively. These are included in the net periodic
pension cost. See Note 16.
Note 19 – Derivative Financial Instruments
Cash Flow Hedges
Our cash flow hedges include foreign currency forward contracts, commodity swaps and commodity purchase
contracts. We use foreign currency forward contracts to manage currency risk associated with certain transactions,
specifically forecasted sales and purchases made in foreign currencies. Our foreign currency contracts hedge
forecasted transactions through 2031. We use commodity derivatives, such as fixed-price purchase commitments and
swaps to hedge against potentially unfavorable price changes for commodities used in production. Our commodity
contracts hedge forecasted transactions through 2029.
Derivative Instruments Not Receiving Hedge Accounting Treatment
We have entered into agreements to purchase and sell aluminum to address long-term strategic sourcing objectives
and non-U.S. business requirements. These agreements are derivative instruments(1)
(2)
(3)
(2)
(3)
(2)
(3)
(1)    
(2)    
(3)    
113
Table of Contents
for accounting purposes. The quantities of aluminum in these agreements offset and are priced at prevailing market
prices. We also hold certain foreign currency forward contracts and commodity swaps which do not qualify for hedge
accounting treatment.
Notional Amounts and Fair Values
The notional amounts and fair values of derivative instruments in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as
of December 31 were as follows:
Notional
 amounts Other assetsAccrued
liabilities
2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments:
Foreign exchange contracts $2,630 $2,594 $30 $81 ($52) ($24)
Commodity contracts 500 404 88 4 (18) (43)
Derivatives not receiving hedge accounting treatment:
Foreign exchange contracts 361 769 2 22 (3) (16)
Commodity contracts 760 904 8 (7) (17)
Total derivatives $4,251 $4,671 128 107 (80) (100)
Netting arrangements (30) (31) 30 31 
Net recorded balance $98 $76 ($50) ($69)
Notional amounts represent the gross contract/notional amount of the derivatives outstanding.
Gains/(losses) associated with our hedging transactions and forward points recognized in Other comprehensive income
are presented in the following table:
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020
Recognized in Other comprehensive income, net of taxes:
Foreign exchange contracts ($47) $44 
Commodity contracts 102 (30)
Gains/(losses) associated with our hedging transactions and forward points reclassified from AOCI to earnings are
presented in the following table:
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020
Foreign exchange contracts
Revenues ($3)
Costs and expenses $13 (14)
General and administrative 8 (6)
Commodity contracts
Costs and expenses ($18) ($10)
General and administrative expense 5 (1)
Gains/(losses) related to undesignated derivatives on foreign exchange and commodity cash flow hedging transactions
recognized in Other income, net were insignificant for the years ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020.(1)
(1)
114
Table of Contents
Based on our portfolio of cash flow hedges, we expect to reclassify gains of $22 (pre-tax) out of Accumulated other
comprehensive loss into earnings during the next 12 months.
We have derivative instruments with credit-risk-related contingent features. For foreign exchange contracts with original
maturities of at least five years, our derivative counterparties could require settlement if we default on our five-year
credit facility. For certain commodity contracts, our counterparties could require collateral posted in an amount
determined by our credit ratings. The fair value of foreign exchange and commodity contracts that have credit-risk-
related contingent features that are in a net liability position at December 31, 2021 was $7. At December 31, 2021,
there was no collateral posted related to our derivatives.
Note 20 – Fair Value Measurements
The fair value hierarchy has three levels based on the reliability of the inputs used to determine fair value. Level 1
refers to fair values determined based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets. Level 2 refers to fair
values estimated using significant other observable inputs, and Level 3 includes fair values estimated using significant
unobservable inputs. The following table presents our assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a
recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy.
December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
TotalLevel 1Level 2 TotalLevel 1Level 2
Assets
Money market funds $1,370 $1,370 $2,230 $2,230 
Available-for-sale debt investments:
Commercial paper 225 $225 149 $149 
Corporate notes 262 262 333 333 
U.S. government agencies 1 1 114 114 
Other equity investments 20 20 54 54 
Derivatives 98 98 76 76 
Total assets $1,976 $1,390 $586 $2,956 $2,284 $672 
Liabilities
Derivatives ($50) ($50) ($69) ($69)
Total liabilities ($50) ($50) ($69) ($69)
Money market funds, available-for-sale debt investments and equity securities are valued using a market approach
based on the quoted market prices or broker/dealer quotes of identical or comparable instruments.
Derivatives include foreign currency and commodity contracts. Our foreign currency forward contracts are valued using
an income approach based on the present value of the forward rate less the contract rate multiplied by the notional
amount. Commodity derivatives are valued using an income approach based on the present value of the commodity
index prices less the contract rate multiplied by the notional amount.
115
Table of Contents
Certain assets have been measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level
3). The following table presents the nonrecurring losses recognized for the years ended December 31 due to long-lived
asset impairment, and the fair value and asset classification of the related assets as of the impairment date:
2021 2020
Fair ValueTotal
Losses Fair ValueTotal
Losses
Investments ($8) $22 ($81)
Customer financing assets $110 (31) 105 (24)
Other assets and Acquired intangible assets 1 (9) 298 (221)
Property, plant and equipment 9 (50) 79 (84)
Total $120 ($98) $504 ($410)
Investments, Property, plant and equipment, Other assets and Acquired intangible assets were primarily valued using
an income approach based on the discounted cash flows associated with the underlying assets. The fair value of the
impaired customer financing assets includes operating lease equipment and investments in sales type-leases/finance
leases and is derived by calculating a median collateral value from a consistent group of third party aircraft value
publications. The values provided by the third party aircraft publications are derived from their knowledge of market
trades and other market factors. Management reviews the publications quarterly to assess the continued
appropriateness and consistency with market trends. Under certain circumstances, we adjust values based on the
attributes and condition of the specific aircraft or equipment, usually when the features or use of the aircraft vary
significantly from the more generic aircraft attributes covered by third party publications, or on the expected net sales
price for the aircraft.
For Level 3 assets that were measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis during the year ended December 31, 2021,
the following table presents the fair value of those assets as of the measurement date, valuation techniques and related
unobservable inputs of those assets.
Fair
ValueValuation
Technique(s) Unobservable InputRange
Median or Average
Customer financing assets $110 Market approachAircraft value
publications$88 - $125
Median $119
Aircraft condition
adjustments($12) - $3
Net ($9)
The range represents the sum of the highest and lowest values for all aircraft subject to fair value measurement,
according to the third party aircraft valuation publications that we use in our valuation process.
The negative amount represents the sum, for all aircraft subject to fair value measurement, of all downward
adjustments based on consideration of individual aircraft attributes and condition. The positive amount represents
the sum of all such upward adjustments.(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
116
Table of Contents
Fair Value Disclosures
The fair values and related carrying values of financial instruments that are not required to be remeasured at fair value
on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at December 31 were as follows:
December 31, 2021
Carrying
AmountTotal Fair
Value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Assets
Notes receivable, net $412 $485 $485 
Liabilities
Debt, excluding finance lease obligations (57,921) (65,724) (65,724)
December 31, 2020
Carrying
AmountTotal Fair
Value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Assets
Notes receivable, net $420 $488 $488 
Liabilities
Debt, excluding finance lease obligations (63,380) (72,357) (72,342) ($15)
The fair values of notes receivable are estimated with discounted cash flow analysis using interest rates currently
offered on loans with similar terms to borrowers of similar credit quality. The fair value of our debt that is traded in the
secondary market is classified as Level 2 and is based on current market yields. For our debt that is not traded in the
secondary market, the fair value is classified as Level 2 and is based on our indicative borrowing cost derived from
dealer quotes or discounted cash flows. The fair values of our debt classified as Level 3 are based on discounted cash
flow models using the implied yield from similar securities. With regard to other financial instruments with off-balance
sheet risk, it is not practicable to estimate the fair value of our indemnifications and financing commitments because the
amount and timing of those arrangements are uncertain. Items not included in the above disclosures include cash,
restricted cash, time deposits and other deposits, commercial paper, money market funds, Accounts receivable,
Unbilled receivables, Other current assets, Accounts payable and long-term payables. The carrying values of those
items, as reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, approximate their fair value at December 31,
2021 and 2020. The fair value of assets and liabilities whose carrying value approximates fair value is determined using
Level 2 inputs, with the exception of cash (Level 1).
Note 21 – Legal Proceedings
Various legal proceedings, claims and investigations related to products, contracts, employment and other matters are
pending against us.
In addition, we are subject to various U.S. government inquiries and investigations from which civil, criminal or
administrative proceedings could result or have resulted in the past. Such proceedings involve or could involve claims
by the government for fines, penalties, compensatory and treble damages, restitution and/or forfeitures. Under
government regulations, a company, or one or more of its operating divisions or subdivisions, can also be suspended or
debarred from government contracts, or lose its export privileges, based on the results of investigations. Except as
described below, we believe,
117
Table of Contents
based upon current information, that the outcome of any such legal proceeding, claim, or government dispute and
investigation will not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Where it is
reasonably possible that we will incur losses in excess of recorded amounts in connection with any of the matters set
forth below, we will disclose either the amount or range of reasonably possible losses in excess of such amounts or,
where no such amount or range can be reasonably estimated, the reasons why no such estimate can be made.
Multiple legal actions have been filed against us as a result of the October 29, 2018 accident of Lion Air Flight 610 and
the March 10, 2019 accident of Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302. During the fourth quarter of 2021, we entered into a
proposed settlement with plaintiffs in a shareholder derivative lawsuit. Under the proposed settlement, which is subject
to court approval, the Company would receive monetary payments of approximately $237, before attorneys’ fees, and
commit to making certain governance changes. Further, we are subject to, and cooperating with, ongoing governmental
and regulatory investigations and inquiries relating to the accidents and the 737 MAX. Among these is an ongoing
investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the outcome of which may be material. Other than with
respect to the agreement described below with the U.S. Department of Justice entered in 2021, we cannot reasonably
estimate a range of loss, if any, not covered by available insurance that may result given the current status of the
pending lawsuits, investigations and inquiries related to the 737 MAX.
On January 6, 2021, we entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice that
resolves the Department of Justice’s previously disclosed investigation into us regarding the evaluation of the 737 MAX
airplane by the Federal Aviation Administration. Under the terms of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement, we agreed to
the filing of a criminal information charging the Company with one count of conspiracy to defraud the United States,
based on the conduct of two former 737 MAX program technical pilots; the criminal information will be dismissed after
three years, provided that we comply with our obligations under the agreement. The Deferred Prosecution Agreement
requires that we make payments totaling $2,510, which consist of (a) a $244 criminal monetary penalty; (b) $500 in
additional compensation to the heirs and/or beneficiaries of those who died in the Lion Air Flight 610 and Ethiopian
Airlines Flight 302 accidents; and (c) $1,770 to the Company’s airline customers for harm incurred as a result of the
grounding of the 737 MAX, offset in part by payments already made and the remainder satisfied through payments to
be made prior to the termination of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement. The agreement also requires that we review
our compliance program and undertake continuous improvement efforts with respect to it, and implement enhanced
compliance reporting and internal controls mechanisms. We expensed $744 in the fourth quarter of 2020 related to this
agreement. During the first quarter, consistent with the terms of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement, the monetary
penalty was paid, and the $500 compensation amount was transferred to a fund established to benefit the heirs and/or
beneficiaries of the victims of the 737 MAX accidents. In addition, the $1,770 amount related to the Company’s airline
customers was included in amounts reserved in prior quarters for 737 MAX customer considerations.
During 2019, we entered into agreements with Embraer S.A. (Embraer) to establish joint ventures that included the
commercial aircraft and services operations of Embraer, of which we were expected to acquire an 80 percent
ownership stake for $4,200, as well as a joint venture to promote and develop new markets for the C-390 Millennium. In
2020, we exercised our contractual right to terminate these agreements based on Embraer’s failure to meet certain
required closing conditions. Embraer has disputed our right to terminate the agreements, and the dispute is currently in
arbitration. We cannot reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any, that may result from the arbitration.
Note 22 – Segment and Revenue Information
Our primary profitability measurements to review a segment’s operating results are Earnings/(loss) from operations and
operating margins. We operate in four reportable segments: BCA, BDS, BGS and BCC.
118
Table of Contents
All other activities fall within Unallocated items, eliminations and other. See page 63 for the Summary of Business
Segment Data, which is an integral part of this note.
BCA develops, produces and markets commercial jet aircraft principally to the commercial airline industry worldwide.
Revenue on commercial aircraft contracts is recognized at the point in time when an aircraft is completed and accepted
by the customer.
BDS engages in the research, development, production and modification of the following products and related services:
manned and unmanned military aircraft and weapons systems, surveillance and engagement, strategic defense and
intelligence systems, satellite systems and space exploration. BDS revenue is generally recognized over the contract
term (over time) as costs are incurred.
BGS provides parts, maintenance, modifications, logistics support, training, data analytics and information-based
services to commercial and government customers worldwide. BGS segment revenue and costs include certain
products and services provided to other segments. Revenue on commercial spare parts contracts is recognized at the
point in time when a spare part is delivered to the customer. Revenue on other contracts is generally recognized over
the contract term (over time) as costs are incurred.
BCC facilitates, arranges, structures and provides selective financing solutions for our customers.
While our principal operations are in the United States, Canada and Australia, some key suppliers and subcontractors
are located in Europe and Japan. Revenues, including foreign military sales, are reported by customer location and
consisted of the following:
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Europe $8,967 $7,961 $10,366 
Asia 5,845 5,931 16,346 
Middle East 4,653 5,308 9,272 
Canada 969 1,302 2,019 
Oceania 1,147 832 2,006 
Africa 239 114 1,113 
Latin America, Caribbean and other 1,376 229 1,015 
Total non-U.S. revenues 23,196 21,677 42,137 
United States 39,076 36,979 42,681 
Estimated potential concessions and other considerations to 737 MAX
customers, net 14 (498) (8,259)
Total revenues $62,286 $58,158 $76,559 
Net of insurance recoveries
Revenues from the U.S. government (including foreign military sales through the U.S. government), primarily recorded
at BDS and BGS, represented 49%, 51% and 39% of consolidated revenues for 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Approximately 4% of operating assets were located outside the United States as of December 31, 2021 and 2020.
The following tables present BCA, BDS and BGS revenues from contracts with customers disaggregated in a number
of ways, such as geographic location, contract type and the method of revenue recognition. We believe these best
depict how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of our revenues and cash flows are affected by economic
factors.(1)
(1) 
119
Table of Contents
BCA revenues by customer location consisted of the following:
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Revenue from contracts with customers:
Europe $4,334 $3,872 $5,829 
Middle East 1,098 1,647 5,761 
Asia 2,792 2,679 12,446 
Other 1,681 513 3,450 
Total non-U.S. revenues 9,905 8,711 27,486 
United States 9,472 7,899 12,676 
Estimated potential concessions and other considerations to 737
MAX customers, net 14 (498) (8,259)
Total revenues from contracts with customers 19,391 16,112 31,903 
Intersegment revenues, eliminated on consolidation 102 50 352 
Total segment revenues $19,493 $16,162 $32,255 
Revenue recognized on fixed-price contracts 100 % 100 % 100 %
Revenue recognized at a point in time 100 % 100 % 100 %
Net of insurance recoveries
BDS revenues on contracts with customers, based on the customer's location, consisted of the following:
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Revenue from contracts with customers:
U.S. customers $19,869 $19,662 $19,465 
Non-U.S. customers 6,671 6,595 6,630 
Total segment revenue from contracts with customers $26,540 $26,257 $26,095 
Revenue recognized over time 99 % 98 % 98 %
Revenue recognized on fixed-price contracts 68 % 69 % 70 %
Revenue from the U.S. government 89 % 89 % 89 %
Includes revenues earned from foreign military sales through the U.S. government.(1)
(1) 
(1)
(1)
(1)
120
Table of Contents
BGS revenues consisted of the following:
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Revenue from contracts with customers:
Commercial $7,527 $6,936 $10,167 
Government 8,553 8,368 8,107 
Total revenues from contracts with customers 16,080 15,304 18,274 
Intersegment revenues eliminated on consolidation 248 239 194 
Total segment revenues $16,328 $15,543 $18,468 
Revenue recognized at a point in time 45 % 47 % 55 %
Revenue recognized on fixed-price contracts 86 % 87 % 90 %
Revenue from the U.S. government 40 % 41 % 34 %
Includes revenues earned from foreign military sales through the U.S. government.
Earnings in Equity Method Investments
Our share of income or loss from equity method investments was $40, $86 and $90, primarily in our BDS segment, for
the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Backlog
Our total backlog includes contracts that we and our customers are committed to perform. The value in backlog
represents the estimated transaction prices on performance obligations to our customers for which work remains to be
performed. Backlog is converted into revenue, primarily based on the cost incurred or at delivery and acceptance of
products, depending on the applicable revenue recognition model.
Our backlog at December 31, 2021 was $377,499. We expect approximately 17% to be converted to revenue through
2022 and approximately 74% through 2025, with the remainder thereafter. There is significant uncertainty regarding the
timing of when backlog will convert into revenue due to 787 production issues and associated rework, timing of 737
MAX delivery resumption in China, timing of entry into service of the 777X, 737 MAX 7 and/or 737 MAX 10, and
COVID-19 impacts.(1)
(1)
121
Table of Contents
Unallocated Items, Eliminations and other
Unallocated items, eliminations and other include common internal services that support Boeing’s global business
operations, intercompany guarantees provided to BCC and eliminations of certain sales between segments. Such sales
include airplanes accounted for as operating leases and considered transferred to the BCC segment. We generally
allocate costs to business segments based on the U.S. federal cost accounting standards. Components of Unallocated
items, eliminations and other are shown in the following table.
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Share-based plans ($174) ($120) ($65)
Deferred compensation (126) (93) (174)
Amortization of previously capitalized interest (107) (95) (89)
Research and development expense, net (184) (240) (401)
Customer financing impairment (250)
Litigation (109)
Eliminations and other unallocated items (676) (1,807) (985)
Unallocated items, eliminations and other ($1,267) ($2,355) ($2,073)
Pension FAS/CAS service cost adjustment $882 $1,024 $1,071 
Postretirement FAS/CAS service cost adjustment 291 359 344 
FAS/CAS service cost adjustment $1,173 $1,383 $1,415 
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Expense
Pension costs, comprising GAAP service and prior service costs, are allocated to BCA and the commercial operations
at BGS. Pension costs are allocated to BDS and BGS businesses supporting government customers using U.S.
Government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS), which employ different actuarial assumptions and accounting
conventions than GAAP. These costs are allocable to government contracts. Other postretirement benefit costs are
allocated to business segments based on CAS, which is generally based on benefits paid. FAS/CAS service cost
adjustment represents the difference between the Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) pension and postretirement
service costs calculated under GAAP and costs allocated to the business segments. Non-operating pension and
postretirement expenses represent the components of net periodic benefit costs other than service cost. These
expenses are included in Other income, net.
122
Table of Contents
Assets
Segment assets are summarized in the table below.
December 31, 2021 2020
Commercial Airplanes $75,863 $77,973 
Defense, Space & Security 14,974 14,256 
Global Services 16,397 17,399 
Boeing Capital 1,735 1,978 
Unallocated items, eliminations and other 29,583 40,530 
Total $138,552 $152,136 
Assets included in Unallocated items, eliminations and other primarily consist of Cash and cash equivalents, Short-term
and other investments, tax assets, capitalized interest, assets managed centrally on behalf of the four principal
business segments and intercompany eliminations. From December 31, 2020 to December 31, 2021, assets in
Unallocated items, eliminations and other decreased primarily due to reductions in short-term and other investment
balances.
Capital Expenditures
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Commercial Airplanes $177 $322 $433 
Defense, Space & Security 199 172 189 
Global Services 94 127 218 
Unallocated items, eliminations and other 510 682 994 
Total $980 $1,303 $1,834 
Capital expenditures for Unallocated items, eliminations and other relate primarily to assets managed centrally on
behalf of the four principal business segments.
Depreciation and Amortization
Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019
Commercial Airplanes $535 $559 $580 
Defense, Space & Security 233 251 256 
Global Services 414 408 424 
Boeing Capital Corporation 59 66 64 
Centrally Managed Assets 903 962 947 
Total $2,144 $2,246 $2,271 
Amounts shown in the table represent depreciation and amortization expense recorded by the individual business
segments. Depreciation and amortization for centrally managed assets are included in segment operating earnings
based on usage and occupancy. In 2021, $668 was included in the primary business segments, of which $386,
$222 and $60 was included in BCA, BDS and BGS, respectively. In 2020, $689 was included in the primary
business segments, of which $397, $236 and $56 was included in BCA, BDS and BGS, respectively. In 2019, $717
was included in the primary business segments, of which $407, $257 and $53 was included in BCA, BDS and
BGS, respectively. (1)
(1)
123
Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the shareholders and the Board of Directors of The Boeing Company
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial position of The Boeing Company and
subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, the related consolidated statements of operations,
comprehensive income, equity, and cash flows, for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021,
and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). In our opinion, the financial statements
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and
the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria
established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission and our report dated January 31, 2022, expressed an unqualified opinion on the
Company's internal control over financial reporting.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the
PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities
laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material
misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to
those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current-period audit of the financial
statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relate to
accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging,
subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on
the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing
separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.
124
Table of Contents
Cost Estimates for Fixed-Price Development Contracts – Refer to Notes 1 and 13 to the financial statements
Critical Audit Matter Description
As more fully described in Notes 1 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company recognizes revenue
over time for long-term contracts as goods are produced or services are rendered. The Company uses costs incurred
as the method for determining progress, and revenue is recognized based on costs incurred to date plus an estimate of
margin at completion. The process of estimating margin at completion involves estimating the costs to complete
production of goods or rendering of services and comparing those costs to the estimated final revenue amount. Fixed-
price development contracts are inherently uncertain in that revenue is fixed while the estimates of costs required to
complete these contracts are subject to significant variability. Due to the technical performance requirements in many of
these contracts, changes to cost and revenue estimates could occur, resulting in lower margins or material reach-
forward losses.
Given the complexity of certain of the Company’s fixed-price development contracts, including the KC-46A Tanker,
Commercial Crew, and United States Air Force VC-25B Presidential Aircraft contracts, the limited amount of historical
data available in certain instances and significant judgments necessary to estimate future costs at completion, auditing
these estimates involved extensive audit effort and a high degree of auditor judgment and required audit professionals
with specialized industry experience.
How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit
Our audit procedures related to the cost estimates for the KC-46A Tanker, Commercial Crew, and United States Air
Force VC-25B Presidential Aircraft fixed-price development contracts included the following, among others:
•We evaluated the appropriateness and consistency of management’s methods used in developing its
estimates.
•We evaluated the reasonableness of judgments made and significant assumptions used by management
relating to key cost and schedule estimates, including the range and probability of reasonable outcomes, and
the appropriateness of the timing of changes to key estimates.
•We performed inquiries of the Company’s project managers and others directly involved with the contracts to
evaluate management’s ability to achieve the key cost and schedule estimates, as well as evaluate project
status and project challenges which may affect total estimated costs to complete. We also observed the project
work site when key estimates related to tangible or physical progress of the project.
•We tested the accuracy and completeness of the key data used in developing estimates. We developed
independent expectations of reasonable outcomes using, in part, the program’s data and compared our
expectations to management’s estimates.
•We tested the effectiveness of controls over the review of judgments made and significant assumptions used to
develop key estimates, including controls over the key data used in developing the estimates and the
mathematical extrapolation of such data.
•We performed retrospective reviews, comparing actual performance to estimated performance and the related
financial statement impact, including the appropriateness of the timing of changes to key estimates, when
evaluating the thoroughness and precision of management’s estimation process and effectiveness of related
internal controls.
125
Table of Contents
Program Accounting Estimates for the 777X Program – Refer to Notes 1 and 7 to the financial statements
Critical Audit Matter Description
The introduction of new aircraft programs involves increased risk associated with meeting development, certification
and production schedules. The Company uses program accounting in order to compute cost of sales and margin for
each commercial airplane sold. The use of program accounting requires estimating and demonstrating customer
demand for the number of units included in the program (program accounting quantity) and estimating the sales and
costs over the expected life of each program. In particular, estimating the initial program accounting quantity and
revenue for unsold units within the program accounting quantity involves measurement uncertainty resulting in a range
of reasonable outcomes. Additionally, the level of effort to meet regulatory requirements and achieve certification may
be challenging to predict, resulting in delays in the timing of entry into service and corresponding increases in estimated
costs. Changes to the program accounting quantity or revenue and cost estimates could occur, resulting in lower
margins or material reach-forward losses. Auditing the estimated revenues and costs for the 777X program involved
extensive audit effort and required audit professionals with specialized industry experience given the high degree of
complexity and subjectivity related to management’s estimates.
How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit
Our audit procedures over the estimated revenues and costs for the anticipated 777X program accounting quantity
included the following, among others:
•We inquired of the Company’s management, including individuals responsible for sales and pricing, to evaluate
the status of current sales campaigns, short and long-term market demand, and status of negotiations with
individual customers.
•We compared management’s estimate of market demand to external industry sources of expected demand.
•We evaluated the appropriateness and consistency of management’s methods and significant assumptions
used in developing its estimates related to the initial program accounting quantity and revenue for unsold units.
•We evaluated management’s ability to estimate program revenue by comparison to historical estimates and
actual results on similar programs.
•We evaluated the appropriateness and consistency of management’s methods used in developing its cost
estimates.
•We performed inquiries of those directly involved with the certification of the aircraft to evaluate project status
and challenges which may affect total estimated costs to achieve certification of the aircraft.
•We tested the effectiveness of controls including those over the key data used in developing the estimates, the
mathematical extrapolation of such data, and management’s judgment regarding the range of reasonable
outcomes relating to the specific estimates.
126
Table of Contents
Program Accounting Revenue Estimates for the 787 Program — Refer to Notes 1, 7, and 22 to the financial
statements
Critical Audit Matter Description
Production quality issues for the 787 Program have resulted in increased risk associated with forecasted revenue
estimates primarily due to the difficulty in assessing the timeline for restarting 787 deliveries. The Company uses
program accounting in order to compute cost of sales and margin for each commercial airplane sold. The use of
program accounting requires estimating the revenue expected to be earned upon delivery of the aircraft included in the
program’s accounting quantity. The timing of the Federal Aviation Administration's (“FAA”) approval to resume
deliveries, the impact to the delivery schedule from delayed deliveries, and the value of the consideration expected to
be provided to customers for delivery delays are key factors that affect estimated revenue. There is increased
estimation uncertainty related to the revenue forecasts of aircraft which have reached or are expected to reach a
delivery delay period that provides the customer with a contractual termination right. Due to continued uncertainty in the
expected FAA approval date to resume 787 aircraft deliveries, there is significant judgment in determining which aircraft
will reach these contractual termination rights. Changes to the expected delivery resumption date could have a
flowthrough impact and result in additional consideration to customers. This could result in lower margins or further
material reach-forward losses. Auditing the estimated revenues for the 787 program involved extensive audit effort and
required professionals with specialized industry experience given the high degree of complexity and subjectivity related
to management’s estimates.
How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit
Our audit procedures over the estimated revenues for the 787 program included the following, among others:
•We inquired of the Company’s management, including individuals responsible for engineering and production
operations, to assess whether the estimated FAA approval and delivery resumption date represent
management’s best estimates based on the status of the rework activity.
•We inquired of the Company’s management, including the individuals communicating with the FAA, to assess if
there is contradictory information to that assumed by management related to the estimated timeline for rework
completion or getting FAA approval to resume deliveries.
•We evaluated the appropriateness and consistency of management’s method for developing the deliveries
schedule assumptions.
•We inquired of the Company’s management, including individuals responsible for sales and pricing, to evaluate
the status of current contracts with customers and expected consideration to be provided to customers.
•We evaluated the appropriateness and consistency of management’s methods and significant assumptions
used in developing its estimates related to forecasted revenue for aircraft which have or are expected to have
delivery delays.
•We tested the effectiveness of controls including those over the key data used in developing the estimates, the
mathematical extrapolation of such data, and management’s judgment regarding the range of reasonable
outcomes relating to the specific estimates.
127
Table of Contents
Liabilities related to the 737 MAX Grounding – Refer to Note 13 to the financial statements
Critical Audit Matter Description
In 2019, following two fatal 737 MAX accidents, the FAA and non-U.S. civil aviation authorities issued orders
suspending commercial operations of 737 MAX aircraft (the “737 MAX Grounding”). Deliveries resumed in the U.S. in
late 2020 following rescission by the FAA of its grounding order.
During 2019, the Company recorded an initial liability in connection with estimated payments, concessions and other in-
kind consideration it intends to provide to customers for disruptions related to the 737 MAX Grounding and associated
delivery delays. This liability totaled $2.9 billion at December 31, 2021 and is reflected in the financial statements in
Accrued liabilities. Of the $2.9 billion, $2.2 billion has been contractually agreed to with customers. The liability
represents the Company’s best estimate of future concessions and other consideration to its customers. To the extent
not contractually agreed upon, the estimate is based on individual negotiations with customers and the substance of
such negotiations.
The subjectivity of the estimate of approximately $0.7 billion relating to consideration that has not yet been contractually
agreed to with customers involved extensive audit effort and a high degree of auditor judgment and required audit
professionals with specialized industry experience.
How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit
Our audit procedures associated with liabilities related to the 737 MAX Grounding included the following, among others:
•We inquired of management to understand developments with the 737 MAX Grounding, including the status of
consideration negotiations with individual customers.
•We obtained written representations from management concerning its intent to provide consideration to
customers and the extent of that consideration.
•We evaluated the significant assumptions used by management to estimate the liability for customer
consideration, and, where possible, we corroborated the significant assumptions with management outside of
the accounting and finance organizations.
•We reviewed the terms of customer contracts and correspondence with customers concerning potential
consideration as a result of the 737 MAX Grounding.
•We evaluated the terms of settlement agreements with customers for the allocation of value provided between
consideration as a result of the 737 MAX Grounding and for consideration related to the impact of current
economic conditions resulting from COVID-19.
•We evaluated delivery documents for 737 MAX deliveries for incremental value provided at delivery as
potential consideration as a result of the 737 MAX Grounding.
•We read minutes of meetings of the Board of Directors and its committees for evidence of unrecorded loss
contingencies.
•We evaluated the Company’s disclosures for consistency with our knowledge of matters related to the 737
MAX Grounding.
128
Table of Contents
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chicago, Illinois
January 31, 2022
We have served as the Company's auditor since at least 1934; however, an earlier year could not be reliably
determined.
129
Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the shareholders and the Board of Directors of The Boeing Company
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of The Boeing Company and subsidiaries (the “Company”)
as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013) issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the Company
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based
on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2021 of the
Company, and our report dated January 31, 2022 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with
the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal
securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies
and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on
the financial statements.
130
Table of Contents
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chicago, Illinois
January 31, 2022
131
Table of Contents
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
None.
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
(a)Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.
Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have evaluated our disclosure controls and procedures as of
December 31, 2021 and have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that
information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and
Exchange Commission’s rules and forms and is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure.
(b)Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as
such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f). Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness
of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control – Integrated Framework
(2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation
under the framework in Internal Control – Integrated Framework, our management concluded that our internal control
over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2021.
Our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, has been audited by Deloitte & Touche LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included in Item 8 of this report and is
incorporated by reference herein.
(c)Changes in Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting.
There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2021
that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our internal control over financial reporting.
Item 9B. Other Information
None.
132
Table of Contents
Part III
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
Our executive officers and their ages as of January 31, 2022, are as follows:
Name AgePrincipal Occupation or Employment/Other Business Affiliations
Bertrand-Marc Allen 48Chief Strategy Officer and Senior Vice President, Strategy and Corporate
Development since October 2020. Mr. Allen previously served as Senior Vice
President and President, Embraer Partnership and Group Operations from April
2019 to October 2020, Senior Vice President and President, Boeing
International from February 2015 to April 2019; President of Boeing Capital
Corporation from March 2014 to February 2015; Corporate Vice President,
Boeing International and Chairman and President of Boeing (China) Co., Ltd.
from March 2011 to March 2014; and Vice President, Global Law Affairs from
May 2007 to March 2011. Mr. Allen serves on the board of directors of Procter &
Gamble Co.
Michael A. Arthur71Senior Vice President and President, Boeing International since April 2019. Mr.
Arthur previously served as President of Boeing Europe from March 2016 to
April 2019 and as Managing Director of Boeing United Kingdom and Ireland
from September 2014 to April 2019.
David L. Calhoun64President and Chief Executive Officer since January 2020 and a member of the
Board of Directors since June 2009. Previously, Mr. Calhoun served as Senior
Managing Director & Head of Private Equity Portfolio Operations at The
Blackstone Group from January 2014 to January 2020. Prior to that, Mr.
Calhoun served as Chairman of the Board of Nielsen Holdings plc from January
2014 to January 2016, as Chief Executive Officer of Nielsen Holdings plc from
May 2010 to January 2014, and as Chairman of the Executive Board and Chief
Executive Officer of The Nielsen Company B.V. from August 2006 to January
2014. Prior to joining Nielsen, he served as Vice Chairman of General Electric
Company and President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Infrastructure.
During his 26-year tenure at GE, he ran multiple business units including GE
Transportation, GE Aircraft Engines, GE Employers Reinsurance Corporation,
GE Lighting and GE Transportation Systems. Mr. Calhoun also serves on the
board of directors of Caterpillar Inc.
Leanne G. Caret55Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Boeing
Defense, Space & Security since March 2016. Ms. Caret joined Boeing in 1988,
and her previous positions include President of Global Services & Support from
February 2015 to March 2016; Chief Financial Officer and Vice President,
Finance, for BDS from March 2014 to February 2015; Vice President and
General Manager, Vertical Lift from November 2012 to February 2014; and Vice
President and Program Manager, Chinook from November 2009 to October
2012. Ms. Caret serves on the board of directors of Deere & Company.
133
Table of Contents
Name AgePrincipal Occupation or Employment/Other Business Affiliations
Theodore Colbert III48Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Boeing Global
Services since October 2019. Mr. Colbert previously served as Chief
Information Officer and Senior Vice President, Information Technology & Data
Analytics from April 2016 to October 2019; Chief Information Officer and Vice
President of Information Technology from November 2013 to April 2016; Vice
President of Information Technology Infrastructure from December 2011 to
November 2013; and Vice President of IT Business Systems from September
2010 to December 2011. Mr. Colbert serves on the board of directors of Archer-
Daniels-Midland Company.
Michael D’Ambrose 64Chief Human Resources Officer and Executive Vice President, Human
Resources since June 2021. Prior to joining Boeing in July 2020 as Executive
Vice Present, Human Resources, Mr. D'Ambrose served as Senior Vice
President and Chief Human Resources Officer for Archer-Daniels-Midland
Company from October 2006 to June 2020. Previously, he served in a series of
executive-level business and human resources positions, including chief human
resources officer at Citigroup, First Data Corporation and Toys 'R' Us, Inc.
Edward L. Dandridge 57Chief Communications Officer and Senior Vice President, Communications
since June 2021. Prior to joining Boeing in September 2020 as Senior Vice
President, Communications, Mr. Dandridge served as Global Chief Marketing
and Communications Officer of AIG General Insurance from April 2018 to
September 2020; Chief Marketing and Communications Officer of Marsh &
McLennan Companies from March 2014 to April 2018; and Chief Marketing
Officer of Collective from February 2013 to February 2014.
Stanley A. Deal57Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Boeing
Commercial Airplanes since October 2019. Mr. Deal joined Boeing in 1986, and
his previous positions include Executive Vice President, President and Chief
Executive Officer, Boeing Global Services from November 2016 to October
2019; Senior Vice President of Commercial Aviation Services from March 2014
to November 2016; Vice President and General Manager of Supply Chain
Management and Operations for Commercial Airplanes from September 2011 to
February 2014; Vice President of Supplier Management from February 2010 to
August 2011; and Vice President of Asia Pacific Sales from December 2006 to
January 2010.
Susan Doniz 52Chief Information Officer and Senior Vice President, Information Technology &
Data Analytics since May 2020. Prior to joining Boeing, Ms. Doniz served as
Global Chief Information Officer of Qantas Airways Limited from January 2017
to April 2020; as strategic advisor to the Global CEO of SAP SE on
transformation and technology issues in support of customers from September
2015 to January 2017; and Global Product, Digital Strategy and Chief
Information Officer of AIMIA Inc. from June 2011 to January 2015.
134
Table of Contents
Name AgePrincipal Occupation or Employment/Other Business Affiliations
Brett C. Gerry50Chief Legal Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Compliance since May
2020. Mr. Gerry previously served as Senior Vice President and General
Counsel from May 2019 to May 2020 President of Boeing Japan from February
2016 to May 2019; Vice President and General Counsel, Boeing Commercial
Airplanes from March 2009 to March 2016; and Chief Counsel, Network and
Space Systems from September 2008 to March 2009.
Gregory L. Hyslop63Chief Engineer and Executive Vice President, Engineering, Test & Technology
since December 2020. Dr. Hyslop's previous positions include Chief Engineer
and Senior Vice President, Engineering, Test & Technology from August 2019 to
December 2020; Chief Technology Officer and Senior Vice President,
Engineering, Test & Technology from March 2016 to August 2019; Vice
President and General Manager of Boeing Research and Technology from
February 2013 to March 2016; and Vice President and General Manager of
Boeing Strategic Missile & Defense Systems from March 2009 to February
2013.
Ziad S. Ojakli 55Executive Vice President, Government Operations since October 2021. Prior to
joining Boeing, Mr. Ojakli served as a managing partner and Senior Vice
President of Global Government Affairs at
SoftBank Group Corp. from August 2018 to September 2020. Prior to that, he
served as Group Vice President, Government & Community Relations at Ford
Motor Company from January 2004 to July 2018.
Brian J. West 52Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since August 2021. Prior to
joining Boeing, Mr. West served as Chief Financial Officer of Refinitiv Holdings
(a London Stock Exchange Group business and provider of financial markets
data and infrastructure) from November 2018 to June 2021. Prior to that, he
served as Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Operations of
Oscar Insurance Corporation from January 2016 to October 2018. Mr. West
served as Chief Operating Officer of Nielsen Holdings plc from March 2014 to
December 2015 and as Chief Financial Officer of Nielsen Holdings plc (or its
predecessor) from February 2007 to March 2014. Prior to joining Nielsen, Mr.
West was employed by the General Electric Company as the Chief Financial
Officer of its GE Aviation division from June 2005 to February 2007 and Chief
Financial Officer of its GE Aviation Services division from March 2004 to June
2005. Prior to that, Mr. West held several senior financial positions across
General Electric Company businesses, including Plastics, NBC, Energy and
Transportation.
Information relating to our directors and nominees will be included under the caption “Election of Directors” in our proxy
statement involving the election of directors, which will be filed with the SEC no later than 120 days after December 31,
2021 and is incorporated by reference herein. Information required by Items 405, 407(d)(4) and 407(d)(5) of Regulation
S-K will be included under the captions “Stock Ownership Information” and “Board Committees” in the 2022 Proxy
Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference herein.
Codes of Ethics. We have adopted (1) The Boeing Company Code of Ethical Business Conduct for the Board of
Directors; (2) The Boeing Company Code of Conduct for Finance Employees which is
135
Table of Contents
applicable to our Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Controller and all finance employees;
and (3) The Boeing Code of Conduct that applies to all employees, including our CEO (collectively, the Codes of
Conduct). The Codes of Conduct are posted on our website, www.boeing.com/company/general-info/corporate-
governance.page, and printed copies may be obtained, without charge, by contacting the Office of Internal
Governance, The Boeing Company, 100 N. Riverside Plaza, Chicago, IL 60606. We intend to disclose promptly on our
website any amendments to, or waivers of, the Codes of Conduct covering our CEO, CFO and/or Controller.
No family relationships exist among any of the executive officers, directors or director nominees.
Item 11. Executive Compensation
The information required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K will be included under the captions “Compensation Discussion
and Analysis,” “Compensation of Executive Officers” and “Compensation of Directors” in the 2022 Proxy Statement,
and that information is incorporated by reference herein. The information required by Item 407(e)(4) and 407(e)(5) of
Regulation S-K will be included under the captions “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” and
“Compensation Committee Report” in the 2022 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference
herein.
136
Table of Contents
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
The information required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption “Stock Ownership
Information” in the 2022 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference herein.
Equity Compensation Plan Information
Our equity compensation plans approved by our shareholders provide for the issuance of common stock to officers and
other employees, directors and consultants. The following table sets forth information regarding outstanding options
and units, and shares available for future issuance under these plans as of December 31, 2021:
Plan CategoryNumber of shares
to be issued upon
exercise of
outstanding
options and unitsWeighted-average
exercise price of
outstanding
optionsNumber of securities
remaining available for
future issuance under
equity compensation
plans (excluding
shares reflected
in column (a))
(a) (b) (c)
Equity compensation plans approved by
shareholders
Stock options 1,709,379 $121.83 
Deferred compensation 1,075,168 
Other stock units 8,296,087 
Equity compensation plans not approved
by shareholders None None None
Total 11,080,634 $121.83 7,922,062 
Includes 766,802 shares issuable in respect of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units subject to the
satisfaction of performance criteria and assumes payout at maximum levels.
Excludes the potential Performance Awards which the Compensation Committee has the discretion to pay in cash,
stock or a combination of both after the three-year performance periods which end in 2022 and 2023.
For further information, see Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
The information required by Item 404 of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption “Related Person
Transactions” in the 2022 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference herein.
The information required by Item 407(a) of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption “Director Independence”
in the 2022 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference herein.(1)
(2)
(1)    
(2)    
137
Table of Contents
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services
Information about aggregate fees billed to us by our principal accountant, Deloitte & Touche LLP (PCAOB ID No.
34) will be included under the caption “Independent Auditor Fees” in the 2022 Proxy Statement, and that information is
incorporated by reference herein.
PART IV
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
(a)List of documents filed as part of this report:
1.Financial Statements
Our consolidated financial statements are as set forth under Item 8 of this report on Form 10-K.
2.Financial Statement Schedules
All schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, not required or the information is included in the
consolidated financial statements.
3.Exhibits
3.1 Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of The Boeing Company dated May 5, 2006 (Exhibit
3.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 1, 2006)
3.2 By-Laws of The Boeing Company, as amended and restated effective August 31, 2021 (Exhibit 3.2 to the
Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 1, 2021)
4.1 Description of The Boeing Company Securities Registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act (Exhibit
4.1 to the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019)
10.1 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of October 25, 2021, among The Boeing Company, for itself and on
behalf of its Subsidiaries, as a Borrower, the Lenders party hereto, Citibank, N.A., as administrative
agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as syndication agent and Citibank, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank
N.A., as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers (Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K dated October 25, 2021)
10.2 Two-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of March 19, 2021, among The Boeing Company, as Borrower, the
Lenders party thereto, Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
syndication agent, Bank of America, N.A. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as documentation
agents, and Citibank N.A., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., BofA Securities, Inc. and Wells Fargo
Securities, LLC, as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers (Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current
Report on Form 8-K dated March 19, 2021)
10.3 Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of October 30, 2019, among The Boeing Company, for itself and
on behalf of its Subsidiaries, as a Borrower, the Lenders party hereto, Citibank, N.A., as administrative
agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agent and Citibank N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A., as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers (Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K dated October 30, 2019
138
Table of Contents
10.4 Three-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of October 30, 2019, among The Boeing Company, for itself and
on behalf of its Subsidiaries, as a Borrower, the Lenders party hereto, Citibank, N.A., as administrative
agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agent and Citibank N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A., as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers (Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K dated October 30, 2019)
10.5 Term Loan Credit Agreement, dated as of February 6, 2020 (Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current
Report on Form 8-K dated February 6, 2020)
10.6 Joint Venture Master Agreement, dated as of May 2, 2005, by and among Lockheed Martin Corporation,
The Boeing Company and United Launch Alliance, L.L.C. (Exhibit (10)(i) to the Company’s Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended June 30, 2005)
10.7 Delta Inventory Supply Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2006, by and between United Launch
Alliance, L.L.C. and The Boeing Company (Exhibit (10)(vi) to the Company’s Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2006)
10.8 Deferred Prosecution Agreement dated January 6, 2021 (Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report
on Form 8-K dated January 6, 2021)
10.9 Summary of Non employee Director Compensation (Exhibit 10.6 to the Company’s Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2019)*
10.10 Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors of The Boeing Company, as amended and restated effective
January 1, 2008 (Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 28, 2007)*
10.11 The Boeing Company Annual Incentive Plan, as amended and restated February 24, 2020 (formerly
known as the Incentive Compensation Plan for Employees of The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries)
(Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2020)*
10.12 The Boeing Company 1997 Incentive Stock Plan, as amended effective May 1, 2000 and further
amended effective January 1, 2008 (Exhibit 10.5 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
October 28, 2007)*
10.13 Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan for Employees of The Boeing Company, as amended and
restated as of January 1, 2016 (Exhibit (10)(xvi) to the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2015)*
10.14 The Boeing Company Executive Supplemental Savings Plan, as amended and restated effective January
1, 2022*
10.15 The Boeing Company Executive Layoff Benefits Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1,
2017 (Exhibit (10)(xviii) to the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016)*
10.16 The Boeing Company 2003 Incentive Stock Plan, as amended and restated effective December 9, 2021*
10.17 Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Grant Notice of Terms (Exhibit (10)(xvii)(b) to the Company’s Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010)*
10.18 Form of U.S. Notice of Terms of Non-Qualified Stock Option (Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2021)*
10.19 Form of International Notice of Terms of Non-Qualified Stock Option (Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s 10-Q
for the quarter ended March 31, 2021)*
139
Table of Contents
10.20 Form of U.S. Notice of Terms of Non-Qualified Stock Option for CEO (Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s 10-Q
for the quarter ended March 31, 2021)*
10.21 Form of U.S. Notice of Terms of Restricted Stock Units (Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2021)*
10.22 Form of International Notice of Terms of Restricted Stock Units (Exhibit 10.5 to the Company’s 10-Q for
the quarter ended March 31, 2021)*
10.23 Form of U.S. Notice of Terms of Restricted Stock Units (Exhibit 10.6 to the Company’s 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2021)*
10.24 Form of Notice of Terms of Supplemental Cash-based Award (Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated June 29, 2021)*
10.25 Form of Notice of Terms of Supplemental Restricted Stock Units (Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated June 29, 2021)*
10.26 Form of Notice of Terms of Supplemental Non-Qualified Stock Option (Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s
Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 29, 2021)*
10.27 Form of Notice of Terms of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units (Exhibit 10.2 of the Company’s 10-
Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2018)*
10.28 Form of Performance Award Notice (Exhibit 10.3 of the Company’s 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2018)*
10.29 Form of Notice of Terms of Restricted Stock Units (Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s 10-Q for the quarter
ended March 31, 2018)*
10.30 Form of Notice of Terms of Supplemental Restricted Stock Units (Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s 10-Q for
the quarter ended March 31, 2018)*
10.31 Form of Notice of Terms of Supplemental Restricted Stock Units (Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated June 25, 2017)*
10.32 Form of Notice of Terms of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units (Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2020)*
10.33 Form of Performance Award Notice (Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
March 31, 2020)*
10.34 Form of Notice of Terms of Restricted Stock Units (Exhibit 10.5 to the Company’s Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2020)*
10.35 Form of International Notice of Terms of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units (Exhibit 10.6 to the
Company’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2020)*
10.36 Form of International Performance Award Notice (Exhibit 10.7 to the Company’s Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2020)*
10.37 Form of International Notice of Terms of Restricted Stock Units (Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended March 31, 2020)*
10.38 Notice of Terms of Supplemental Restricted Stock Units, dated February 24, 2020 (Exhibit 10.1 to the
Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 23, 2020)*
10.39 Notice of Terms of Supplemental Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units, dated February 24, 2020
(Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 23, 2020)*
10.40 Form of International Notice of Terms of Supplemental Restricted Stock Units (Exhibit 10.2 to the
Company’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2020)*
140
Table of Contents
10.41 Employment Agreement between Boeing Canada Operations LTD and Susan Doniz (Exhibit 10.1 to the
Company’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2020)*
21 List of Company Subsidiaries
23 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
31.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
32.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
99.1 Commercial Program Method of Accounting (Exhibit (99)(i) to the Company’s Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 1997)
101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document
101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document
101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document
101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document
101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document
104 Cover Page Interactive Data File - the cover page XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL
document contained in Exhibit 101
* Management contract or compensatory plan
In accordance with Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K, copies of certain instruments defining the rights of holders
of long-term debt of the Company are not filed herewith. Pursuant to this regulation, we hereby agree to furnish a copy
of any such instrument to the SEC upon request.
Item 16. Form 10-K Summary
None.
141
Table of Contents
Signatures
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on January 31, 2022.
THE BOEING COMPANY
(Registrant)
By: /s/ Carol J. Hibbard
 Carol J. Hibbard – Senior Vice President and Controller
142
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on January 31, 2022.
/s/ David L. Calhoun /s/ Akhil Johri
David L. Calhoun – President and Chief Executive Officer Akhil Johri – Director
(Principal Executive Officer)
/s/ Brian J. West /s/ David L. Joyce
Brian J. West – Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial OfficerDavid L. Joyce – Director
(Principal Financial Officer)
/s/ Carol J. Hibbard /s/ Lawrence W. Kellner
Carol J. Hibbard – Senior Vice President and Controller Lawrence W. Kellner – Chair of the Board
(Principal Accounting Officer)
/s/ Robert A. Bradway /s/ Steven M. Mollenkopf
Robert A. Bradway – Director Steven M. Mollenkopf – Director
/s/ Lynne M. Doughtie /s/ John M. Richardson
Lynne M. Doughtie – Director John M. Richardson – Director
/s/ Lynn J. Good /s/ Ronald A. Williams
Lynn J. Good – Director Ronald A. Williams – Director
/s/ Stayce D. Harris
Stayce D. Harris – Director
143
