Table of Contents
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
 
FORM 10-K
 
(Mark One)
☒ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934
 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022
 
OR
 
☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934
 
For the transition period from                      to                     .
 
Commission File No. 1-768
 
CATERPILLAR INC.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 Delaware 37-0602744
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation) (IRS Employer I.D. No.)
5205 N. O'Connor Boulevard,Suite 100, Irving,Texas75039
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
 
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:  (972) 891-7700
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 
Title of each class Trading Symbol (s) Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock ($1.00 par value) CAT New York Stock Exchange  (1)
8% Debentures due February 15, 2023 CAT23 New York Stock Exchange
5.3% Debentures due September 15, 2035 CAT35 New York Stock Exchange
In addition to the New York Stock Exchange, Caterpillar common stock is also listed on stock exchanges in France and Switzerland.
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None
 
Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ý  No o
 
Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes o  No ý
 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
for the past 90 days.  Yes ý  No o
 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).  Yes ý 
No o
 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or emerging
growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer”, “smaller reporting company” and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act.  (Check one):
 (1)     
Table of Contents
Large accelerated filer x Accelerated filer o
Non-accelerated filer o Smaller reporting company ☐
Emerging growth company ☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or
revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. o
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control
over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.s.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its
audit report.ý
If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing
reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements. o
Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by
any of the registrant’s executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). o
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  Yes ☐  No ý
 
As of June 30, 2022, there were 527,909,143 shares of common stock of the Registrant outstanding, and the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-
affiliates of the Registrant (assuming only for purposes of this computation that directors and executive officers may be affiliates) was approximately $94.7 billion.
 
As of December 31, 2022, there were 516,345,490 shares of common stock of the Registrant outstanding.
 
Documents Incorporated by Reference
 
Portions of the documents listed below have been incorporated by reference into the indicated parts of this Form 10-K, as specified in the responses to the item
numbers involved.
 
Part III 2023 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement (Proxy Statement) to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) within 120
days after the end of the fiscal year.
Table of Contents
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Part I Item 1.Business 1
Item 1A.Risk Factors 10
Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments 21
Item 1C.Information about our Executive Officers 22
Item 2.Properties 22
Item 3.Legal Proceedings 25
Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures 25
Part II Item 5.Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities25
Item 6.[Reserved] 27
Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28
Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 54
Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 55
Item 9.Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 123
Item 9A.Controls and Procedures 123
Item 9B.Other Information 123
Item 9C.Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections  123
Part IIIItem 10.Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 123
Item 11.Executive Compensation 124
Item 12.Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 124
Item 13.Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 124
Item 14.Principal Accountant Fees and Services 125
Part IV Item 15.Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 126
Item 16.Form 10-K Summary 130
i
Table of Contents
PART I
Item 1.Business.
General
 
Originally organized as Caterpillar Tractor Co. in 1925 in the State of California, our company was reorganized as Caterpillar Inc.
in 1986 in the State of Delaware.  As used herein, the term “Caterpillar,” “we,” “us,” “our” or “the company” refers to Caterpillar
Inc. and its subsidiaries unless designated or identified otherwise.
 
Overview
 
With 2022 sales and revenues of $59.427 billion, Caterpillar is the world’s leading manufacturer of construction and mining
equipment, off-highway diesel and natural gas engines, industrial gas turbines and diesel-electric locomotives.  The company
principally operates through its three primary segments - Construction Industries, Resource Industries and Energy & Transportation
- and also provides financing and related services through its Financial Products segment. Caterpillar is also a leading U.S.
exporter.  Through a global network of independent dealers and direct sales of certain products, Caterpillar builds long-term
relationships with customers around the world.
 
Enterprise Strategy
Our company strategy, rolled out in 2017, reflects our legacy and our continuing commitment to meet the needs of our customers
and the communities in which we live and work. United by our Values, Caterpillar employees around the world share a focused
view of our business through the Operating & Execution Model, through which we are making strategic choices today to create
long-term profitable growth. Since 2017, we focused on three strategic areas: Expanded Offerings, Operational Excellence and
Services. In 2022, we updated our strategy to also include sustainability as a strategic focus area. For nearly 100 years, our
longstanding commitment to sustainability has inspired us to set and achieve meaningful environmental, social and governance
goals. It’s also allowed us to develop innovative products, technologies and services to support our customers on their sustainability
journey. The addition of sustainability as a focus area, together with operational excellence, expanded offerings and services,
highlights our work to help customers build a better, more sustainable world.
Currently, we have five operating segments, of which four are reportable segments and are described below. 
 
Categories of Business Organization
 
1.               Machinery, Energy & Transportation — Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries, excluding Financial Products. Machinery,
Energy & Transportation information relates to the design, manufacturing and marketing of our products.
 
2.               Financial Products — Our finance and insurance subsidiaries, primarily Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation (Cat
Financial) and Caterpillar Insurance Holdings Inc. (Insurance Services). Financial Products information relates to the financing to
customers and dealers for the purchase and lease of Caterpillar and other equipment.
 
Other information about our operations in 2022, including certain risks associated with our operations, is included in Part II, Item 7
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
 
Construction Industries
 
Our Construction Industries segment is primarily responsible for supporting customers using machinery in infrastructure, forestry
and building construction.  The majority of machine sales in this segment are made in the heavy and general construction, rental,
quarry and aggregates markets and mining.
The nature of customer demand for construction machinery varies around the world.  Customers in developing economies often
prioritize purchase price in making their investment decisions, while customers in developed economies generally weigh
productivity and other performance criteria that contribute to lower owning and operating costs over the lifetime of the machine. 
To meet customer expectations in developing economies, Caterpillar developed differentiated product offerings that target
customers in those markets, including our SEM brand machines.  We believe that these customer-driven product innovations enable
us to compete more effectively in developing economies. The majority of Construction Industries' research and development
spending in 2022 focused on the next generation of construction machines.
1
Table of Contents
 
The competitive environment for construction machinery is characterized by some global competitors and many regional and
specialized local competitors. Examples of global competitors include CASE (part of CNH Industrial N.V.), Deere Construction &
Forestry (part of Deere & Company), Doosan Bobcat (Part of Doosan Group), Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., Ltd., Hyundai
Construction Equipment Co., Ltd., Hyundai Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. (both part of Hyundai Heavy Industries Group), J.C.
Bamford Excavators Ltd., Kobelco Construction Machinery (part of Kobe Steel, Ltd), Komatsu Ltd., Kubota Farm & Industrial
Machinery (part of Kubota Corporation), Sany Heavy Industry Co., Ltd., and Volvo Construction Equipment (part of the Volvo
Group). As an example of regional and local competitors, our competitors in China also include Guangxi LiuGong Machinery Co.,
Ltd., Longking Holdings Ltd., Sany Heavy Industry Co, XCMG Construction Machinery Co., Ltd., Shandong Lingong
Construction Machinery Co., Ltd. (SDLG, JV with Volvo Construction Equipment) and Shantui Construction Machinery Co., Ltd.,
(part of Shandong Heavy Industry Group Co.). Each of these companies has varying product lines that compete with Caterpillar
products, and each has varying degrees of regional focus.
 The Construction Industries product portfolio includes the following product families as well as related parts and tools:
·                  asphalt pavers ·                 compactors · road reclaimers
·                  backhoe loaders ·                forestry machines · skid steer loaders
·                 cold planers ·                material handlers · small and medium
· compact, small and ·                mini, small, medium          track-type tractors
          medium wheel loaders          and large track excavators · telehandlers
· compact track and ·                motor graders · track-type loaders
          multi-terrain loaders ·                pipelayers · wheel excavators
Resource Industries
 
The Resource Industries segment is primarily responsible for supporting customers using machinery in mining and heavy
construction and quarry and aggregates. Caterpillar offers a broad product range and services to deliver comprehensive solutions
for our customers. We develop and manufacture high productivity equipment for both surface and underground mining operations
around the world, as well as provide hydraulic systems, electronics and software for Caterpillar machines and engines. Our
equipment is used to extract and haul copper, iron ore, coal, oil sands, aggregates, gold and other minerals and ores, as well as a
variety of heavy construction applications. In addition to equipment, Resource Industries also develops and sells technology
products and services to provide customers fleet management systems, equipment management analytics and autonomous machine
capabilities.
Customers in most markets place an emphasis on equipment that is highly productive, reliable and provides the lowest total cost of
ownership over the life of the equipment. In some developing markets, customers often prioritize purchase price in making their
investment decisions. We believe our ability to control the integration and design of key machine components and innovative
technologies represents a competitive advantage. Our research and development efforts remain focused on providing customers the
lowest total cost of ownership enabled through the highest quality, most productive products and services in the industry.
The competitive environment for Resource Industries consists of a few larger global competitors that compete in several of the
markets that we serve and a substantial number of smaller companies that compete in a more limited range of products,
applications, and regional markets. Our global surface competitors include Deere Construction & Forestry (part of Deere &
Company), Epiroc AB, Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., Ltd., Komatsu Ltd., Liebherr-International AG, Sandvik AB, and
Volvo Construction Equipment. Our global underground competitors include Epiroc AB, Komatsu Ltd., and Sandvik AB.
The Resource Industries product portfolio includes the following machines and related parts and services:
·                  electric rope shovels ·                  longwall miners ·                  landfill compactors
·                  draglines ·                  large wheel loaders ·                  soil compactors
·                  hydraulic shovels ·                  off-highway trucks ·                machinery components
·                  rotary drills ·                  articulated trucks ·                  autonomous ready vehicles and solutions
·                  hard rock vehicles ·                  wheel tractor scrapers ·                  select work tools
·                  large track-type tractors ·                  wheel dozers ·                  safety services and mining performance
·                  large mining trucks ·                  fleet management                      solutions
 
2
Table of Contents
Energy & Transportation
 
Our Energy & Transportation segment supports customers in oil and gas, power generation, marine, rail and industrial applications,
including Caterpillar machines. The product and services portfolio includes reciprocating engines, generator sets, integrated
systems and solutions, turbines and turbine-related services, electrified powertrain and zero-emission power sources and service
solutions development, the remanufacturing of Caterpillar engines and components and remanufacturing services for other
companies, diesel-electric locomotives and other rail-related products and services and product support of on-highway vocational
trucks for North America.
Regulatory emissions standards require us to continue to make investments as new products and new regulations are introduced. 
Ongoing compliance with these regulations remains a focus.  Emissions compliance in developing markets is complex due to
rapidly evolving and unique requirements where enforcement processes can often vary.  We employ robust product development,
manufacturing processes and testing to help us comply with these regulations. 
 
The competitive environment for reciprocating engines in marine, oil and gas, industrial and electric power generation systems
along with turbines in oil and gas and electric power generation consists of a few larger global competitors that compete in a variety
of markets that Caterpillar serves, and a substantial number of smaller companies that compete in a limited-size product range,
geographic region and/or application. Principal global competitors include Cummins Inc., Deutz AG, INNIO Jenbacher GmbH,
Rolls-Royce Power Systems and Wärtsilä Corp. Other competitors, such as Fiat Industrial SpA (Iveco Group), GE Power,
Kawasaki Heavy Industries Energy Solutions & Marine Engineering, MAN Energy Solutions (VW), Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
Ltd., Siemens Energy Global GmbH,Volvo Penta AB, Weichai Power Co., Ltd., and other emerging market competitors compete in
certain markets in which Caterpillar competes. An additional set of competitors, including Aggreko plc, Baker Hughes Co.,
Generac Holdings, Kohler Power Systems, and others, are primarily packagers who source engines and/or other components from
domestic and international suppliers and market products regionally and internationally through a variety of distribution channels.
In rail-related businesses, our global competitors include Alstom SA, CRRC Corp., LTD., The Greenbrier Companies, Siemens
Mobility, Voestalpine AG, Vossloh AG and Wabtec Freight. We also compete with other companies on a more limited range of
products, services and/or geographic regions.
The Energy & Transportation portfolio includes the following products and related parts:
•Reciprocating engine powered generator sets
•Reciprocating engines, drivetrain and integrated systems and solutions supplied to the industrial industry as well as
Caterpillar machinery
•Integrated systems and solutions used in the electric power generation industry
•Turbines, centrifugal gas compressors and related services
•Reciprocating engines, drivetrain and integrated systems and solutions for the marine and oil and gas industries
•Remanufactured reciprocating engines and components
•Diesel-electric locomotives and components and other rail-related products and services
Financial Products Segment
 
The business of our Financial Products Segment is primarily conducted by Cat Financial, Insurance Services and their respective
subsidiaries and affiliates.  Cat Financial is a wholly owned finance subsidiary of Caterpillar Inc. and it provides retail and
wholesale financing to customers and dealers around the world for Caterpillar products and services, as well as financing for
vehicles and power generation facilities that, in most cases, incorporate Caterpillar products. Retail financing is primarily
comprised of installment sale contracts and other equipment-related loans, working capital loans, finance leases and operating
leases. Wholesale financing to Caterpillar dealers consists primarily of inventory and rental fleet financing. In addition, Cat
Financial purchases short-term wholesale trade receivables from Caterpillar. The various financing plans offered by Cat Financial
are designed to support sales of Caterpillar products and services and generate financing income for Cat Financial.  A significant
portion of our activity is conducted in North America and we have additional offices and subsidiaries in Latin America,
Asia/Pacific, Europe and Africa.  
For over 40 years, Cat Financial has been providing financing for Caterpillar products, contributing to our knowledge of asset
values, industry trends, financing structures and customer needs.
 
3
Table of Contents
In certain instances, Cat Financial’s operations are subject to supervision and regulation by state, federal and various foreign
governmental authorities, and may be subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing various
requirements and restrictions which, among other things, (i) regulate credit granting activities and the administration of loans,
(ii) establish maximum interest rates, finance charges and other charges, (iii) require disclosures to customers, (iv) govern secured
transactions, (v) set collection, foreclosure, repossession and other trade practices and (vi) regulate the use and reporting of
information related to a borrower’s credit experience.  Cat Financial’s ability to comply with these and other governmental and
legal requirements and restrictions affects its operations.
Cat Financial’s retail loans include:
     
•Loans that allow customers and dealers to use their Caterpillar equipment or other assets as collateral to obtain financing.
•Installment sale contracts, which are equipment loans that enable customers to purchase equipment with structured
payments over time.
Cat Financial's retail leases include:
 
•Finance (non-tax) leases, where the lessee for tax purposes is considered to be the owner of the equipment during the term
of the lease, that either require or allow the customer to purchase the equipment for a fixed price at the end of the term.
•Tax leases that are classified as either operating or finance leases for financial accounting purposes, depending on the
characteristics of the lease.  For tax purposes, we are considered the owner of the equipment.
Cat Financial also purchases short-term receivables from Caterpillar.
 
Cat Financial’s wholesale loans and leases include inventory/rental programs, which provide assistance to dealers by financing their
new Caterpillar inventory and rental fleets.
Cat Financial operates in a highly competitive environment, with financing for users of Caterpillar equipment and services
available through a variety of sources, principally commercial banks and finance and leasing companies.  Our competitors include
Wells Fargo Equipment Finance Inc., Banc of America Leasing & Capital LLC, BNP Paribas Leasing Solutions Limited, Australia
and New Zealand Banking Group Limited, Société Générale S.A. and various other banks and finance companies.  In addition,
many of the manufacturers that compete with Caterpillar also own financial subsidiaries, such as John Deere Capital Corporation,
Komatsu Financial L.P., Volvo Financial Services and Kubota Credit Corporation, which utilize many below-market interest rate
programs (funded by the manufacturer) to support machine sales.  Cat Financial works with the broader Caterpillar organization to
provide a broad array of financial merchandising programs to compete around the world.
The financial results of Cat Financial are largely dependent upon the ability of Caterpillar dealers to sell equipment and customers’
willingness to enter into financing or leasing agreements.  Cat Financial is also affected by, among other things, the availability of
funds from its financing sources, its cost of funds relative to its competitors and general economic conditions such as inflation and
market interest rates.
 
Cat Financial has a match-funding policy that addresses interest rate risk by aligning the interest rate profile (fixed or floating rate
and duration) of its debt portfolio with the interest rate profile of its receivables portfolio within predetermined ranges on an
ongoing basis.  In connection with that policy, Cat Financial uses interest rate derivative instruments to modify the debt structure to
match assets within the receivables portfolio. This matched funding reduces the volatility of margins between interest-bearing
assets and interest-bearing liabilities, regardless of which direction interest rates move. For more information regarding match
funding, please see Note 4 — “Derivative financial instruments and risk management” of Part II, Item 8 "Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data."  See also the risk factors associated with our financial products business included in Item 1 A. of this Form
10-K.
In managing foreign currency risk for Cat Financial’s operations, the objective is to minimize earnings volatility resulting from
conversion and the remeasurement of net foreign currency balance sheet positions, and future transactions denominated in foreign
currencies.  This policy allows the use of foreign currency forward, option and cross currency contracts to offset the risk of
currency mismatch between the assets and liabilities, and exchange rate risk associated with future transactions denominated in
foreign currencies.
 
4
Table of Contents
Cat Financial provides financing only when certain criteria are met. Credit decisions are based on a variety of credit quality factors
including prior payment experience, customer financial information, credit ratings, loan-to-value ratios and other internal metrics.
Cat Financial typically maintains a security interest in retail-financed equipment and requires physical damage insurance coverage
on financed equipment.  Cat Financial finances a significant portion of Caterpillar dealers’ sales and inventory of Caterpillar
equipment throughout the world.  Cat Financial’s competitive position is improved by marketing programs offered in conjunction
with Caterpillar and/or Caterpillar dealers.  Under these programs, Caterpillar, or the dealer, funds an amount at the outset of the
transaction, which Cat Financial then recognizes as revenue over the term of the financing.  We believe that these marketing
programs provide Cat Financial a significant competitive advantage in financing Caterpillar products.
 
Caterpillar Insurance Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar Insurance Holdings Inc., is a U.S. insurance company
domiciled in Missouri and primarily regulated by the Missouri Department of Insurance.  Caterpillar Insurance Company is
licensed to conduct property and casualty insurance business in 50 states, the District of Columbia and Guam, and as such, is also
regulated in those jurisdictions.  The State of Missouri acts as the lead regulatory authority and monitors Caterpillar Insurance
Company’s financial status to ensure that it is in compliance with minimum solvency requirements, as well as other financial ratios
prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.  Caterpillar Insurance Company is also licensed to conduct
insurance business through a branch in Zurich, Switzerland and, as such, is regulated by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory
Authority.
 
Caterpillar Life Insurance Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar, is a U.S. insurance company domiciled in Missouri
and primarily regulated by the Missouri Department of Insurance.  Caterpillar Life Insurance Company is licensed to conduct life
and accident and health insurance business in 26 states and the District of Columbia and, as such, is also regulated in those
jurisdictions. The State of Missouri acts as the lead regulatory authority and it monitors the financial status to ensure that it is in
compliance with minimum solvency requirements, as well as other financial ratios prescribed by the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners.  Caterpillar Life Insurance Company provides reinsurance coverage to Caterpillar Insurance Company.
Specifically, Caterpillar Life Insurance Company has entered into a reinsurance agreement with Caterpillar Insurance Company,
assuming 100% of the risk of an Accident and Health Stop Loss Insurance Policy to cover a Caterpillar Voluntary Employees'
Benefits Association (VEBA) Trust for medical losses sustained by a select group of Caterpillar retirees and dependents.
 
Caterpillar Insurance Co. Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar Insurance Holdings Inc., is a captive insurance company
domiciled in Bermuda and regulated by the Bermuda Monetary Authority. Caterpillar Insurance Co. Ltd. is registered as a Class 2
(General Business) and Class B (Long-Term) insurer with the Bermuda Monetary Authority. Under its Class 2 insurance license,
Caterpillar Insurance Co. Ltd. insures its parent and affiliates for general liability, property, auto liability and cargo. It also provides
reinsurance to Caterpillar Insurance Company under a quota share reinsurance agreement for its contractual liability and
contractors’ equipment programs in the United States. In addition, Caterpillar Insurance Co. Ltd. reinsures 100% of the
international employee benefit plans of Caterpillar Inc. through retrocession agreements with other insurers. The employee benefits
coverages include medical and accident coverages. which are reported under its Class 2 insurance license and life and disability
coverages, which are reported under its Class B insurance license. The Bermuda Monetary Authority is responsible for monitoring
compliance with solvency requirements and requires an Annual Financial Filing for this purpose.
 
Caterpillar Product Services Corporation (CPSC), a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar, is a warranty company domiciled in
Missouri.  CPSC previously conducted a machine extended service contract program in Germany and France by providing machine
extended warranty reimbursement protection to dealers in Germany and France. The program was discontinued effective January 1,
2013, though CPSC continues to provide extended warranty reimbursement protection under existing contracts.
 
Caterpillar Insurance Services Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar Insurance Holdings Inc., is a Tennessee
insurance agency licensed in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Guam. It provides brokerage and insurance services for all
property and casualty and life and health lines of business.
 
Caterpillar’s insurance group provides protection and service for claims under the following programs:
 
•Contractual Liability Insurance to insure certain service contract obligations of Caterpillar and its affiliates, Caterpillar
dealers and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).
•Cargo reinsurance for the worldwide cargo risks of Caterpillar products.
5
Table of Contents
•Contractors’ Equipment Physical Damage Insurance for equipment manufactured by Caterpillar or OEMs, which is leased,
rented or sold by third party dealers to customers.
•General liability, employer’s liability, auto liability and property insurance for Caterpillar.
•Life, disability, medical and accident reinsurance for Caterpillar's international employee benefits program (non-U.S.).
•Reinsurance to cover VEBA Trust for medical claims of certain Caterpillar retirees and dependents.
•Brokerage and insurance services for property and casualty and life and health business.
Competitive Environment
 
Caterpillar products and services are sold worldwide into a variety of highly competitive markets.  In all markets, we compete on
the basis of product performance, customer service, quality and price.  From time to time, the intensity of competition results in
price discounting in a particular industry or region.  Such price discounting puts pressure on margins and can negatively impact
operating profit. Outside the United States, certain competitors enjoy competitive advantages inherent to operating in their home
countries or regions.
 
Raw Materials and Component Products
 
We source our raw materials and manufactured components from suppliers both domestically and internationally. These purchases
include unformed materials and rough and finished parts.  Unformed materials include a variety of steel products, which are then
cut or formed to shape and machined in our facilities. Rough parts include various sized steel and iron castings and forgings, which
are machined to final specification levels inside our facilities. Finished parts are ready to assemble components, which are made
either to Caterpillar specifications or to supplier developed specifications.  We machine and assemble some of the components used
in our machines, engines and power generation units and to support our after-market dealer parts sales. We also purchase various
goods and services used in production, logistics, offices and product development processes.  We maintain global strategic sourcing
models to meet our global facilities’ production needs while building long-term supplier relationships and leveraging enterprise
spend.  We expect our suppliers to maintain, at all times, industry-leading levels of quality and the ability to timely deliver raw
materials and component products for our machine and engine products. However, in some cases, increases in demand or supply
chain disruptions have led to parts and components constraints across some products. We use a variety of agreements with suppliers
to protect our intellectual property and processes to monitor and mitigate risks of the supply base causing a business disruption. 
The risks monitored include supplier financial viability, the ability to increase or decrease production levels, business continuity,
quality and delivery.
 
Patents and Trademarks
 
We own a number of patents and trademarks, which have been obtained over a period of years and relate to the products we
manufacture and the services we provide. These patents and trademarks are generally considered beneficial to our business. We do
not regard our business as being dependent upon any single patent or group of patents.
Order Backlog
 
The dollar amount of backlog believed to be firm was approximately $30.4 billion at December 31, 2022 and $23.1 billion at
December 31, 2021. Compared with year-end 2021, the order backlog increased for both the Energy & Transportation and
Construction Industries segments, with the largest increase in Energy & Transportation. Of the total backlog at December 31, 2022,
approximately $5.5 billion was not expected to be filled in 2023. 
Dealers and Distributors
 
We distribute our machines principally through a worldwide organization of dealers (dealer network), 43 located in the United
States and 113 located outside the United States, serving 192 countries.  We sell reciprocating engines principally through the
dealer network and to other manufacturers for use in products. We also sell some of the reciprocating engines manufactured by our
subsidiary Perkins Engines Company Limited through its worldwide network of 88 distributors covering 185 countries. We sell the
FG Wilson branded electric power generation systems through its worldwide network of 110 distributors covering 109
countries.  We also sell some of the large, medium speed reciprocating engines under the MaK brand through a worldwide network
of 20 distributors covering 130 countries. 
 
6
Table of Contents
Our dealers do not deal exclusively with our products; however, in most cases sales and servicing of our products are the dealers’
principal business.  We sell some products, primarily turbines and locomotives, directly to end customers through sales forces
employed by the company.  At times, these employees are assisted by independent sales representatives.
While the large majority of our worldwide dealers are independently owned and operated, we own and operate a dealership in
Japan that covers approximately 80% of the Japanese market: Nippon Caterpillar Division. We are currently operating this Japanese
dealer directly and we report its results in the All Other operating segment. There are also three independent dealers in the Southern
Region of Japan.
 
For Caterpillar branded products, the company’s relationship with each of its independent dealers is memorialized in standard sales
and service agreements.  Pursuant to these agreements, the company grants the dealer the right to purchase and sell its products and
to service the products in a specified geographic service territory.  The company establishes prices to dealers after receiving input
from dealers on transactional pricing in the marketplace.  The company also agrees to defend its intellectual property and to provide
warranty and technical support to the dealer.  The agreement further grants the dealer a non-exclusive license to use the company’s
trademarks, service marks and brand names.  In some instances, a separate trademark agreement exists between the company and a
dealer.
 
In exchange for these rights, the agreement obligates the dealer to develop and promote the sale of the company’s products to
current and prospective customers in the dealer’s service territory.  Each dealer agrees to employ adequate sales and support
personnel to market, sell and promote the company’s products, demonstrate and exhibit the products, perform the company’s
product improvement programs, inform the company concerning any features that might affect the safe operation of any of the
company’s products and maintain detailed books and records of the dealer’s financial condition, sales and inventories and make
these books and records available at the company’s reasonable request.
 
These sales and service agreements are terminable at will by either party primarily upon 90 days written notice.
 
Human Capital
Core Values
Caterpillar’s global workforce is united by Our Values In Action, Caterpillar’s Code of Conduct. Integrity, Excellence, Teamwork,
Commitment and Sustainability provide the foundation for our values-based culture. Our diversity and inclusion principles are
embedded in our values. Our values unite us, and reflect our diverse cultures, languages, geographies, and businesses, as one
Caterpillar team.
Health and Safety
The health and safety of our employees is an important focus at Caterpillar, and we strive to continually reduce our recordable
injuries. As part of this focus on health and safety, Caterpillar has established a peer-to-peer safety mentorship and education
program for manufacturing new hires to accelerate acclimation to our safety culture in many global locations. In 2022, the
Company achieved a recordable injury frequency rate of 0.44, compared to the 2021 recordable injury frequency rate of 0.41.
Talent Development and Training
In addition to our focus on values and safety, we strive to continually attract, develop, engage, and retain a high-performing diverse
global team that executes our enterprise strategy of long-term profitable growth.
We are committed to employee development and helping individuals reach their full potential, by making on-going investments in
our team. Our global internships, engineering co-ops, and career programs for engineering, marketing, and manufacturing provide
development opportunities for early career employees. We also have a continual focus on strengthening technical, professional and
leadership capabilities at every level. Strategic talent reviews and succession planning occur at a minimum, annually, across our
businesses.
Our leadership development programs and focus on encouraging a variety of experiences to help employees broaden understanding
and increase perspective. Our leadership curriculums include managing for inclusion as a core development principle and a
professional skill.
7
Table of Contents
Additionally, skill-based programs to upskill our manufacturing employees are developed locally and tailored to the specific needs
of the business. In China, we continue to invest in programs that encourage women to pursue engineering management and
leadership roles. In India, we tailored recruiting campaigns and on-site benefits to attract female employees. Caterpillar, along with
other companies across industries, participates in the OneTen coalition. The coalition is committed to upskill, hire and advance
Black Americans over the next 10 years into family-sustaining careers.
Diversity and Inclusion
We are committed to fostering a diverse workforce and an inclusive environment. Our strategic approach weaves diversity and
inclusion seamlessly into the business, ensuring that the principles guide us in our daily operating rhythm. Our 14 Employee
Resource Groups (ERGs), which are sponsored and supported by leadership, help ensure different voices and perspectives
contribute to our strategy for long-term profitable growth. They also engage our employees, helping contribute to development and
retention.
Our ERGs provide many contributions, such as mentoring programs that connect diverse employees with senior leaders who can
support their career goals, partnerships with recruiters and diverse early career and professional organizations that can assist in
strengthening the diverse talent pipeline and programs that educate and inform on the richness of the global cultures that we share.
Compensation, Benefits and Employee Insights
Providing competitive benefits and compensation underpins our commitment to our engaged and productive employees. Our pay-
for-performance philosophy aligns employee’s individual contributions, behaviors and business results with individual rewards.
Our comprehensive Total Health programs focus on purpose, as well as physical, emotional, financial, and social health. The annual
Employee Insights Survey provides all employees the opportunity to confidentially share their perspectives and engages leaders to
listen, learn and respond to employee feedback.
Employment
Management aligns employment levels with the needs of the business. We believe we have the appropriate human capital resources
to successfully operate and deliver our enterprise strategy. As of December 31, 2022, we employed about 109,100 full-time persons
of whom approximately 60,900 were located outside the United States. In the United States, we employed approximately 48,200
full-time persons, most of whom are at-will employees and, therefore, not subject to any type of employment contract or
agreement.  At select business units, we have hired certain highly specialized employees under employment contracts that specify a
term of employment, pay and other benefits.
 
Full-T ime Employees at Year-End
 2022 2021
Inside U.S. 48,200 44,300
Outside U.S. 60,900 63,400
Total 109,100 107,700
By Region:   
North America 48,700 44,700
EAME 16,900 17,600
Latin America 19,100 19,500
Asia/Pacific 24,400 25,900
Total 109,100 107,700
As of December 31, 2022, there were approximately 7,980 hourly production employees in the United States who were covered by
collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions, including The United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural
Implement Workers of America (UAW), The International Association of Machinists and The United Steelworkers. Outside the
United States, the company enters into employment contracts and agreements in those countries in which such relationships are
mandatory or customary. The provisions of these agreements generally correspond in each case with the required or customary
terms in the subject jurisdiction.
8
Table of Contents
 
Environmental Matters
 
The company is regulated by federal, state and international environmental laws governing our use, transport and disposal of
substances and control of emissions. In addition to governing our manufacturing and other operations, these laws often impact the
development of our products, including, but not limited to, required compliance with air emissions standards applicable to internal
combustion engines. We have made, and will continue to make, significant research and development and capital expenditures to
comply with these emissions standards.
 
We are engaged in remedial activities at a number of locations, often with other companies, pursuant to federal and state laws. 
When it is probable we will pay remedial costs at a site, and those costs can be reasonably estimated, the investigation, remediation,
and operating and maintenance costs of the remedial action are accrued against our earnings.  Costs are accrued based on
consideration of currently available data and information with respect to each individual site, including available technologies,
current applicable laws and regulations, and prior remediation experience. Where no amount within a range of estimates is more
likely, we accrue the minimum. Where multiple potentially responsible parties are involved, we consider our proportionate share of
the probable costs. In formulating the estimate of probable costs, we do not consider amounts expected to be recovered from
insurance companies or others.  We reassess these accrued amounts on a quarterly basis. The amount recorded for environmental
remediation is not material and is included in the line item "Accrued expenses" in Statement 3 — "Consolidated Financial Position
at December 31" of Part II, Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." There is no more than a remote chance that a
material amount for remedial activities at any individual site, or at all the sites in the aggregate, will be required.
Available Information
The company files electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) required reports on Form 8-K, Form 10-Q,
Form 10-K and Form 11-K; proxy materials; ownership reports for insiders as required by Section 16 of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (Exchange Act); registration statements on Forms S-3 and S-8, as necessary; and other forms or reports as required. 
The SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The company maintains a website (www.Caterpillar.com) and copies of our
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports
filed or furnished with the SEC are available free of charge through our website (www.Caterpillar.com/secfilings) as soon as
reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC.  Copies of our board committee charters, our board’s Guidelines on Corporate
Governance Issues, Worldwide Code of Conduct and other corporate governance information are available on our website
(www.Caterpillar.com/governance).  The information contained on the company’s website is not included in, or incorporated by
reference into, this annual report on Form 10-K.
 
Additional company information may be obtained as follows:
 
Current information -
 
•view additional financial information on-line at www.Caterpillar.com/en/investors/financial-information.html
•request, view or download materials on-line or register for email alerts at www.Caterpillar.com/materialsrequest
 
Historical information -
 
•view/download on-line at www.Caterpillar.com/historical
9
Table of Contents
Item 1A.Risk Factors.
 
The statements in this section describe the most significant risks to our business and should be considered carefully in conjunction
with Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the “Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements” of Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” to this Form 10-K.  In
addition, the statements in this section and other sections of this Form 10-K, including in Part II, Item 7 “Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” include “forward-looking statements” as that term is defined in the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve uncertainties that could significantly impact results.  Forward-looking
statements give current expectations or forecasts of future events about the company or our outlook.  You can identify forward-
looking statements by the fact they do not relate to historical or current facts and by the use of words such as “believe,” “expect,”
“estimate,” “anticipate,” “will be,” “should,” “plan,” “forecast,” “target,” “guide,” “project,” “intend,” “could” and similar words or
expressions.
 
Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions and on known risks and uncertainties. Although we believe we have been
prudent in our assumptions, any or all of our forward-looking statements may prove to be inaccurate, and we can make no
guarantees about our future performance.  Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions
prove inaccurate, actual results could materially differ from past results and/or those anticipated, estimated or projected.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or
otherwise. You should, however, consult any subsequent disclosures we make in our filings with the SEC on Form 10-Q or Form 8-
K.
 
The following is a cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are material to our business. In
addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following are some of the important factors that, individually or in the
aggregate, we believe could make our actual results differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements. It is
impossible to predict or identify all such factors and, as a result, you should not consider the following factors to be a complete
discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions.
MACROECONOMIC RISKS
Our business and the industries we serve are highly sensitive to global and regional economic conditions.
 
Our results of operations are materially affected by economic conditions globally and regionally and in the particular industries we
serve.  The demand for our products and services tends to be cyclical and can be significantly reduced in periods of economic
weakness characterized by lower levels of government and business investment, lower levels of business confidence, lower
corporate earnings, high real interest rates, lower credit activity or tighter credit conditions, perceived or actual industry
overcapacity, higher unemployment and lower consumer spending. A prolonged period of economic weakness may also result in
increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges.  Economic
conditions vary across regions and countries, and demand for our products and services generally increases in those regions and
countries experiencing economic growth and investment.  Slower economic growth or a change in the global mix of regions and
countries experiencing economic growth and investment could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.
 
The energy, transportation, and mining industries are significant adopters of Caterpillar products. In these industries customers are
likely to base their purchase decisions upon expected future commodity dynamics, including price. Commodity prices, especially in
the post-COVID period, have experienced frequent volatility. Volatility in these markets may be abrupt and unpredictable in
response to global economic conditions, government actions, regulatory changes, supply/demand dynamics, innovation, and
commodity substitutions among others. Economic conditions affecting the industries we serve may reduce capital expenditures in
response to a variety of the aforementioned conditions. Reduction in these capital expenditures may lead to decreased demand for
Caterpillar products and services as well as aftermarket parts as customers may choose to extend preventative maintenance and
delay overhauls when possible.
 
The rates of infrastructure spending, commercial construction and housing starts also play a significant role in our results.  Our
products are an integral component of these activities, and as these activities decrease, demand for our products and services may
be significantly impacted, which could negatively impact our results.  
10
Table of Contents
Catastrophic events, including global pandemics such as the COVID-19 pandemic, could materially adversely affect
our business, results of operations and/or financial condition.
The occurrence of a major earthquake, fire, flood, tsunami or other weather event, power loss, telecommunications failure, software
or hardware malfunctions, pandemics (including the COVID-19 pandemic), cyber-attack, war, terrorist attack or other catastrophic
event that our disaster recovery plans do not adequately address, could adversely affect our employees, our systems, our ability to
produce and distribute our products, and our reputation. For example, the COVID-19 pandemic has had, and continues to have, a
significant impact around the world, prompting governments and businesses to take unprecedented measures in response. Such
measures have included travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place orders and shutdowns. These measures have
impacted and may continue to impact all or portions of our workforce and operations and the operations of our customers, dealers
and suppliers. Although certain restrictions related to the COVID-19 pandemic have eased, uncertainty continues to exist regarding
such measures and potential future measures. Current material and component shortages, logistics constraints and labor
inefficiencies have limited and could continue to limit our ability to meet customer demand, which could have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition.
The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly increased economic and customer demand uncertainty, has caused inflationary pressure
in the U.S. and elsewhere and has led to volatility in customer demand for the Company’s products and services and caused supply
chain disruptions. Economic uncertainties could continue to affect customer demand for the Company’s products and services, the
value of the equipment financed or leased, the demand for financing and the financial condition and credit risk of our dealers and
customers.
A catastrophic event resulting in the destruction or disruption of our workforce, our systems, our ability to produce and distribute
our products, any of our data centers or our critical business or information technology systems could adversely affect our ability to
conduct normal business operations and our operating results or cash flows. The adverse effects of any such catastrophic event
would be exacerbated if experienced at the same time as another unexpected and adverse event, such as the COVID-19 pandemic.
Commodity price changes, material price increases, fluctuations in demand for our products and services, significant
disruptions to our supply chains or significant shortages of labor and material may adversely impact our financial results or
our ability to meet commitments to customers.
 
We are a significant user of steel and many other commodities required for the manufacture of our products. Increases in the prices
of such commodities would increase our costs, negatively impacting our business, results of operations and financial condition if
we are unable to fully offset the effect of these increased costs through price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction
programs.
 
We rely on suppliers to produce or secure material required for the manufacture of our products. Production challenges at suppliers
(including suppliers of semiconductors), a disruption in deliveries to or from suppliers or decreased availability of raw materials or
commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. On
the other hand, in circumstances where demand for our products is less than we expect, we may experience excess inventories and
be forced to incur additional costs and our profitability may suffer. Additionally, we have experienced and expect to continue to
experience transportation delays for parts, components and finished machines due to capacity constraints and congestion at ports
throughout the globe although the situation has improved compared to recent periods. Our business, competitive position, results of
operations or financial condition could be negatively impacted if supply is insufficient for our operations, if significant
transportation delays interfere with deliveries, if we experience excess inventories or if we are unable to adjust our production
schedules or our purchases from suppliers to reflect changes in customer demand and market fluctuations on a timely basis.
Changes in government monetary or fiscal policies may negatively impact our results.
 
Most countries where our products and services are sold have established central banks to regulate monetary systems and influence
economic activities, generally by adjusting interest rates. Interest rate changes affect overall economic growth, which affects
demand for residential and nonresidential structures, as well as energy and mined products, which in turn affects sales of our
products and services that support these activities.  Interest rate changes may also affect our customers’ ability to finance machine
purchases, can change the optimal time to keep machines in a fleet and can impact the ability of our suppliers to finance the
production of parts and components necessary to manufacture and support our products. Increases in interest rates could negatively
impact sales and create supply chain inefficiencies.
 
11
Table of Contents
Central banks and other policy arms of many countries may take actions to vary the amount of liquidity and credit available in an
economy. The impact from a change in liquidity and credit policies could negatively affect the customers and markets we serve or
our suppliers, create supply chain inefficiencies and could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial
condition.
Changes in monetary and fiscal policies, along with other factors, may cause currency exchange rates to fluctuate. Actions that lead
the currency exchange rate of a country where we manufacture products to increase relative to other currencies could reduce the
competitiveness of products made in that country, which could adversely affect our competitive position, results of operations and
financial condition.
Government policies on taxes and spending also affect our business.  Throughout the world, government spending finances a
significant portion of infrastructure development, such as highways, rail systems, airports, sewer and water systems, waterways and
dams.  Tax regulations determine asset depreciation lives and impact the after-tax returns on business activity and investment, both
of which influence investment decisions.  Unfavorable developments, such as decisions to reduce public spending or to increase
taxes, could negatively impact our results.
Our global operations are exposed to political and economic risks, commercial instability and events beyond our control in
the countries in which we operate.
 
Our global operations are dependent upon products manufactured, purchased and sold in the U.S. and internationally, including in
countries with political and economic instability or uncertainty. Some countries have greater political and economic volatility and
greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than others. Our business could be negatively impacted by adverse
fluctuations in freight costs, fuel costs (e.g., diesel, bunker, jet), limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other
disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products.
Operating in different regions and countries exposes us to numerous risks, including:
•multiple and potentially conflicting laws, regulations and policies that are subject to change;
•imposition of currency restrictions, restrictions on repatriation of earnings or other restraints;
•imposition of new or additional tariffs or quotas;
•withdrawal from or modification of trade agreements or the negotiation of new trade agreements;
•imposition of new or additional trade and economic sanctions laws imposed by the U.S. or foreign governments;
•war or acts of terrorism; and
•political and economic instability or civil unrest that may severely disrupt economic activity in affected countries.
The occurrence of one or more of these events may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.
OPERATIONAL RISKS
The success of our business depends on our ability to develop, produce and market quality products that meet our
customers’ needs.
 
Our business relies on continued global demand for our brands and products.  To achieve business goals, we must develop and sell
products that appeal to our dealers, OEMs and end-user customers.  This is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability
to maintain key dealer relationships; our ability to produce products that meet the quality, performance and price expectations of
our customers and our ability to develop effective sales, advertising and marketing programs.  In addition, our continued success in
selling products that appeal to our customers is dependent on leading-edge innovation, with respect to both products and operations,
and on the availability and effectiveness of legal protection for our innovations.  Failure to continue to deliver high quality,
innovative, competitive products to the marketplace, to adequately protect our intellectual property rights; to supply products that
meet applicable regulatory requirements, including engine exhaust emission requirements or to predict market demands for, or gain
market acceptance of, our products, could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
12
Table of Contents
We operate in a highly competitive environment, which could adversely affect our sales and pricing.
 
We operate in a highly competitive environment.  We compete on the basis of a variety of factors, including product performance,
customer service, quality and price.  There can be no assurance that our products will be able to compete successfully with other
companies’ products.  Thus, our share of industry sales could be reduced due to aggressive pricing or product strategies pursued by
competitors, unanticipated product or manufacturing difficulties, our failure to price our products competitively, our failure to
produce our products at a competitive cost or an unexpected buildup in competitors’ new machine or dealer-owned rental fleets,
which could lead to downward pressure on machine rental rates and/or used equipment prices.
 
Lack of customer acceptance of price increases we announce from time to time, changes in customer requirements for price
discounts, changes in our customers’ behavior or a weak pricing environment could have an adverse impact on our business, results
of operations and financial condition.
 
In addition, our results and ability to compete may be impacted negatively by changes in our geographic and product mix of sales.  
Increased information technology security threats and more sophisticated computer crime pose a risk to our systems,
networks, products and services.
We rely upon information technology systems and networks, some of which are managed by third parties, in connection with a
variety of business activities. Additionally, we collect and store sensitive information relating to our business, customers, dealers,
suppliers and employees. Operating these information technology systems and networks and processing and maintaining this data
in a secure manner, is critical to our business operations and strategy. Information technology security threats -- from user error to
cybersecurity attacks designed to gain unauthorized access to our systems, networks and data -- are increasing in frequency and
sophistication. Cybersecurity attacks from threat actors globally range from random attempts to coordinated and targeted attacks,
including sophisticated computer crime and advanced persistent threats. These threats pose a risk to the security of our systems and
networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. Cybersecurity attacks could also include attacks targeting
customer data or the security, integrity and/or reliability of the hardware and software installed in our products. It is possible that
our information technology systems and networks, or those managed or provided by third parties, could have vulnerabilities, which
could go unnoticed for a period of time. While various procedures and controls have been and are being utilized to mitigate such
risks, there can be no guarantee that the actions and controls we have implemented and are implementing, or which we cause or
have caused third-party service providers to implement, will be sufficient to protect and mitigate associated risks to our systems,
information or other property.
We have experienced cyber security threats and vulnerabilities in our systems and those of our third party providers, and we have
experienced viruses and attacks targeting our information technology systems and networks. Such prior events, to date, have not
had a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. However, the potential consequences of a future
material cybersecurity attack include reputational damage, litigation with third parties, government enforcement actions, penalties,
disruption to systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, corruption of data, diminution in the
value of our investment in research, development and engineering, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs,
which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness, results of operations and financial condition. Due to the evolving nature
of such security threats, the potential impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. Further, the amount of insurance coverage
we maintain may be inadequate to cover claims or liabilities relating to a cybersecurity attack.
In addition, data we collect, store and process are subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws and regulations, such as the
European Union's General Data Protection Regulation and the California Consumer Privacy Act, which may carry significant
potential penalties for noncompliance.
13
Table of Contents
Our business is subject to the inventory management decisions and sourcing practices of our dealers and our OEM
customers.
 
We sell finished products primarily through an independent dealer network and directly to OEMs and are subject to risks relating to
their inventory management decisions and operational and sourcing practices.  Both carry inventories of finished products as part of
ongoing operations and adjust those inventories based on their assessments of future needs and market conditions, including levels
of used equipment inventory and machine rental usage rates.  Such adjustments may impact our results positively or negatively.  If
the inventory levels of our dealers and OEM customers are higher than they desire, they may postpone product purchases from us,
which could cause our sales to be lower than the end-user demand for our products and negatively impact our results. Similarly, our
results could be negatively impacted through the loss of time-sensitive sales if our dealers and OEM customers do not maintain
inventory levels sufficient to meet customer demand.
We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions, joint ventures or divestitures, or these benefits may
take longer to realize than expected.
In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely evaluate targets and enter into agreements regarding possible acquisitions,
divestitures and joint ventures. We often compete with others for the same opportunities. To be successful, we conduct due
diligence to identify valuation issues and potential loss contingencies, negotiate transaction terms, complete complex transactions
and manage post-closing matters such as the integration of acquired businesses. Further, while we seek to mitigate risks and
liabilities of such transactions through due diligence, among other things, there may be risks and liabilities that our due diligence
efforts fail to discover, that are not accurately or completely disclosed to us or that we inadequately assess. We may incur
unanticipated costs or expenses following a completed acquisition, including post-closing asset impairment charges, expenses
associated with eliminating duplicate facilities, litigation, and other liabilities. Risks associated with our past or future acquisitions
also include the following:
•the failure to achieve the acquisition's revenue or profit forecast;
•the business culture of the acquired business may not match well with our culture;
•technological and product synergies, economies of scale and cost reductions may not occur as expected;
•unforeseen expenses, delays or conditions may be imposed upon the acquisition, including due to required regulatory
approvals or consents;
•we may acquire or assume unexpected liabilities or be subject to unexpected penalties or other enforcement actions;
•faulty assumptions may be made regarding the macroeconomic environment or the integration process;
•unforeseen difficulties may arise in integrating operations, processes and systems;
•higher than expected investments may be required to implement necessary compliance processes and related systems,
including information technology systems, accounting systems and internal controls over financial reporting;
•we may fail to retain, motivate and integrate key management and other employees of the acquired business;
•higher than expected costs may arise due to unforeseen changes in tax, trade, environmental, labor, safety, payroll or
pension policies in any jurisdiction in which the acquired business conducts its operations; and
•we may experience problems in retaining customers and integrating customer bases.
Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of
expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and attention. They may also delay the realization of the benefits we
anticipate when we enter into a transaction.
 
In order to conserve cash for operations, we may undertake acquisitions financed in part through public offerings or private
placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements.  Such acquisition financing could result in a decrease in our earnings
and adversely affect other leverage measures.  If we issue equity securities or equity-linked securities, the issued securities may
have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our common shares.
 
14
Table of Contents
Failure to implement our acquisition strategy, including successfully integrating acquired businesses, could have an adverse effect
on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Furthermore, we make strategic divestitures from time to time. In the
case of divestitures, we may agree to indemnify acquiring parties for certain liabilities arising from our former businesses. These
divestitures may also result in continued financial involvement in the divested businesses following the transaction, including
through guarantees or other financial arrangements.  Lower performance by those divested businesses could affect our future
financial results.
Union disputes or other labor matters could adversely affect our operations and financial results.
 
Some of our employees are represented by labor unions in a number of countries under various collective bargaining agreements
with varying durations and expiration dates.  There can be no assurance that any current or future issues with our employees will be
resolved or that we will not encounter future strikes, work stoppages or other disputes with labor unions or our employees.  We may
not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate collective bargaining agreements in the United States and other countries when they expire. 
If we fail to renegotiate our existing collective bargaining agreements, we could encounter strikes or work stoppages or other
disputes with labor unions.  In addition, existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at our
facilities in the future.  We may also be subject to general country strikes or work stoppages unrelated to our business or collective
bargaining agreements. A work stoppage or other limitations on production at our facilities for any reason could have an adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, many of our customers and suppliers have
unionized work forces. Strikes or work stoppages experienced by our customers or suppliers could have an adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.
Unexpected events may increase our cost of doing business or disrupt our operations.
 
The occurrence of one or more unexpected events, including war, acts of terrorism or violence, civil unrest, fires, tornadoes,
tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods and other forms of severe weather in the United States or in other countries in which we
operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance.  Natural disasters,
pandemic illness, such as COVID-19, equipment failures, power outages or other unexpected events could result in physical
damage to and complete or partial closure of one or more of our manufacturing facilities or distribution centers, temporary or long-
term disruption in the supply of component products from some local and international suppliers, and disruption and delay in the
transport of our products to dealers, end-users and distribution centers.  Existing insurance coverage may not provide protection for
all of the costs that may arise from such events.
FINANCIAL RISKS
Disruptions or volatility in global financial markets could limit our sources of liquidity, or the liquidity of our customers,
dealers and suppliers.
 
Continuing to meet our cash requirements over the long-term requires substantial liquidity and access to varied sources of funds,
including capital and credit markets. Global economic conditions may cause volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit
markets. Market volatility, changes in counterparty credit risk, the impact of government intervention in financial markets and
general economic conditions may also adversely impact our ability to access capital and credit markets to fund operating needs. 
Global or regional economic downturns could cause financial markets to decrease the availability of liquidity, credit and credit
capacity for certain issuers, including certain customers, dealers and suppliers. An inability to access capital and credit markets may
have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. Furthermore, changes in
global economic conditions, including material cost increases and decreases in economic activity in key markets we serve, and the
success of plans to manage cost increases, inventory and other important elements of our business may significantly impact our
ability to generate funds from operations. 
 
In addition, demand for our products generally depends on customers’ ability to pay for our products, which, in turn, depends on
their access to funds. Changes in global economic conditions may result in customers experiencing increased difficulty in
generating funds from operations. Capital and credit market volatility and uncertainty may cause financial institutions to revise
their lending standards, resulting in customers’ decreased access to capital. If capital and credit market volatility occurs, customers’
liquidity may decline which, in turn, would reduce their ability to purchase our products.
15
Table of Contents
Failure to maintain our credit ratings could increase our cost of borrowing and could adversely affect our cost of funds,
liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets.
 
Each of Caterpillar’s and Cat Financial’s costs of borrowing and their respective ability to access the capital markets are affected
not only by market conditions but also by the short- and long-term credit ratings assigned to their respective debt by the major
credit rating agencies.  These ratings are based, in significant part, on each of Caterpillar’s and Cat Financial’s performance as
measured by financial metrics such as net worth, interest coverage and leverage ratios, as well as transparency with rating agencies
and timeliness of financial reporting.  There can be no assurance that Caterpillar and Cat Financial will be able to maintain their
credit ratings. We receive debt ratings from the major credit rating agencies.  A downgrade of our credit rating by any of the major
credit rating agencies could result in increased borrowing costs and could adversely affect Caterpillar’s and Cat Financial’s
liquidity, competitive position and access to the capital markets, including restricting, in whole or in part, access to the commercial
paper market.  There can be no assurance that the commercial paper market will continue to be a reliable source of short-term
financing for Cat Financial or an available source of short-term financing for Caterpillar. An inability to access the capital markets
could have an adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition.
 
Our Financial Products segment is subject to risks associated with the financial services industry.
 
Cat Financial is significant to our operations and provides financing support for a significant share of our global sales. The inability
of Cat Financial to access funds to support its financing activities to our customers could have an adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and financial condition.
Continuing to meet Cat Financial's cash requirements over the long-term could require substantial liquidity and access to sources of
funds, including capital and credit markets. Cat Financial has continued to maintain access to key global medium-term note and
commercial paper markets, but there can be no assurance that such markets will continue to represent a reliable source of financing.
If global economic conditions were to deteriorate, Cat Financial could face materially higher financing costs, become unable to
access adequate funding to operate and grow its business and/or meet its debt service obligations as they mature. Cat Financial also
could be required to draw upon contractually committed lending agreements and/or seek other funding sources. However, there can
be no assurance that such agreements and other funding sources would be sufficient or even available under extreme market
conditions. Any of these events could negatively impact Cat Financial’s business, as well as our and Cat Financial's results of
operations and financial condition.
 
Market disruption and volatility may also lead to numerous risks in connection with these events, including but not limited to:
•Market developments that may affect customer confidence levels and cause declines in the demand for financing and
adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could increase Cat
Financial’s write-offs and provision for credit losses.
•The process Cat Financial uses to estimate losses inherent in its credit exposure requires a high degree of management’s
judgment regarding numerous subjective qualitative factors, including forecasts of economic conditions and how
economic predictors might impair the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans.  Financial market disruption and
volatility may impact the accuracy of these judgments.
•Cat Financial’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions or to borrow from other financial institutions on
acceptable terms or at all could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including
actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations.
•As Cat Financial’s borrowing agreements are primarily with financial institutions, their ability to perform in accordance
with any of our underlying agreements could be adversely affected by market volatility and/or disruptions in financial
markets.
16
Table of Contents
Changes in interest rates or market liquidity conditions could adversely affect Cat Financial's and our earnings and/or cash
flow.
Changes in interest rates and market liquidity conditions could have an adverse impact on Cat Financial's and our earnings and cash
flows. While interest rates had remained at historically low levels in recent years, the Federal Reserve Board significantly increased
the federal funds rate in 2022 and has indicated that it expects continued increases in interest rates in 2023 and 2024 to combat
rising inflation in the U.S. Because a significant number of the loans made by Cat Financial are made utilizing fixed interest rates,
its business results are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. Certain loans made by Cat Financial and various financing extended
to Cat Financial are made at variable rates that use LIBOR as a benchmark for establishing the interest rate.
LIBOR is the subject of recent proposals for reform. On July 27, 2017, the United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority
("FCA") announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit LIBOR rates after 2021. Immediately
following the LIBOR publication on December 31, 2021, ICE Benchmark Administration ("IBA") ceased the publication of all
GBP, EUR, CHF and JPY LIBOR settings, as well as the one-week and two-month USD LIBOR tenors. On November 30, 2020,
IBA, with the support of the United States Federal Reserve and the FCA, announced plans to consult on ceasing publication of all
other remaining USD LIBOR tenors on June 30, 2023. While the November 30 announcement extended the transition period to
June 2023, the United States Federal Reserve concurrently issued a statement advising banks to stop new USD LIBOR issuances
by the end of 2021. Further, on March 15, 2022, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2022, which includes the Adjustable
Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act, was signed into law in the U.S. This legislation establishes a uniform benchmark replacement process
for financial contracts maturing after June 30, 2023 that do not contain clearly defined or practicable fallback provisions. The
legislation also creates a safe harbor that shields lenders from litigation if they choose to utilize a replacement rate recommended by
the Federal Reserve. The Alternative Reference Rate Committee, a committee convened by the Federal Reserve that includes major
market participants, has identified the Secured Overnight Financing Rate, or SOFR, a new index calculated by short-term
repurchase agreements, backed by Treasury securities, as its preferred alternative rate for LIBOR. At this time, it is not possible to
predict how markets will respond to SOFR or other alternative reference rates as the transition away from the LIBOR benchmarks
is anticipated in coming years. There continue to be uncertainties regarding the transition from LIBOR, including but not limited to
the need to renegotiate certain terms of our loan agreements with LIBOR as the referenced rate, which could require us to incur
significant expense and may subject us to disputes or litigation over the appropriateness or comparability to LIBOR of the
replacement reference rates.
The consequences of these developments cannot be entirely predicted and could have an adverse impact on the market value for or
value of LIBOR-linked securities, loans, derivatives, and other financial obligations or extensions of credit held by or due to Cat
Financial, as well as the revenue and expenses associated with those securities, loans and financial instruments. Cat Financial
created a cross-functional team that assesses risk across multiple categories as it relates to the use of LIBOR in securities, loans,
derivatives, and other financial obligations or extensions of credit held by or due to us. Other changes in market interest rates may
influence Cat Financial’s borrowing costs and could reduce its and our earnings and cash flows, returns on financial investments
and the valuation of derivative contracts. Cat Financial manages interest rate and market liquidity risks through a variety of
techniques that include a match funding strategy, the selective use of derivatives and a broadly diversified funding program. There
can be no assurance, however, that fluctuations in interest rates and market liquidity conditions will not have an adverse impact on
its and our earnings and cash flows. If any of the variety of instruments and strategies Cat Financial uses to hedge its exposure to
these types of risk is ineffective, this may have an adverse impact on our earnings and cash flows. With respect to Insurance
Services' investment activities, changes in the equity and bond markets could result in a decline in value of its investment portfolio,
resulting in an unfavorable impact to earnings.
An increase in delinquencies, repossessions or net losses of Cat Financial customers could adversely affect its results.
 
Inherent in the operation of Cat Financial is the credit risk associated with its customers. The creditworthiness of each customer and
the rate of delinquencies, repossessions and net losses on customer obligations are directly impacted by several factors, including
relevant industry and economic conditions, the availability of capital, the experience and expertise of the customer's management
team, commodity prices, political events and the sustained value of the underlying collateral. Any increase in delinquencies,
repossessions and net losses on customer obligations could have a material adverse effect on Cat Financial's and our earnings and
cash flows. Cat Financial evaluates and adjusts its allowance for credit losses related to past due and non-performing receivables on
a regular basis. However, adverse economic conditions or other factors that might cause deterioration of the financial health of its
customers could change the timing and level of payments received and necessitate an increase in Cat Financial's estimated losses,
which could also have a material adverse effect on Cat Financial's and our earnings and cash flows.
17
Table of Contents
Currency exchange rate fluctuations affect our results of operations.
 
We conduct operations in many countries involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies.  We are subject to
currency-exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenues. 
Fluctuations in currency exchange rates have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our results as expressed in U.S. dollars. 
There can be no assurance that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our results of operations, financial
condition and cash flows. While the use of currency hedging instruments may provide us with protection from adverse fluctuations
in currency exchange rates, by utilizing these instruments we potentially forego the benefits that might result from favorable
fluctuations in currency exchange rates. In addition, our outlooks do not assume fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Adverse
fluctuations in currency exchange rates from the date of our outlooks could cause our actual results to differ materially from those
anticipated in any outlooks and adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our
ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or
businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds
denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation.
 
Restrictive covenants in our debt agreements could limit our financial and operating flexibility.
 
We maintain a number of credit facilities to support general corporate purposes (facilities) and have issued debt securities to
manage liquidity and fund operations (debt securities).  The agreements relating to a number of the facilities and the debt securities
contain certain restrictive covenants applicable to us and certain subsidiaries, including Cat Financial.  These covenants include
maintaining a minimum consolidated net worth (defined as the consolidated shareholder’s equity including preferred stock but
excluding the pension and other post-retirement benefits balance within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)),
limitations on the incurrence of liens and certain restrictions on consolidation and merger. Cat Financial has also agreed under
certain of these agreements not to exceed a certain leverage ratio (consolidated debt to consolidated net worth, calculated (1) on a
monthly basis as the average of the leverage ratios determined on the last day of each of the six preceding calendar months and
(2) at each December 31), to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio (profit excluding income taxes, interest expense and net
gain/(loss) from interest rate derivatives to interest expense, calculated at the end of each calendar quarter for the rolling four
quarter period then most recently ended) and not to terminate, amend or modify its support agreement with us.
 
A breach of one or more of the covenants could result in adverse consequences that could negatively impact our business, results of
operations and financial condition. These consequences may include the acceleration of amounts outstanding under certain of the
facilities, triggering of an obligation to redeem certain debt securities, termination of existing unused commitments by our lenders,
refusal by our lenders to extend further credit under one or more of the facilities or to enter into new facilities or the lowering or
modification of our credit ratings or those of one or more of our subsidiaries.
 
Sustained increases in funding obligations under our pension plans may impair our liquidity or financial condition.
 
We maintain certain defined benefit pension plans for our employees, which impose on us certain funding obligations. We use
many assumptions in determining our future payment obligations under the plans. Significant adverse changes in credit or capital
markets could result in actual rates of return on pension investments being materially lower than projected and result in increased
contribution requirements. We may be required to make material contributions to our pension plans in the future and may fund
contributions through the use of cash on hand, the proceeds of borrowings, shares of our common stock or a combination of the
foregoing, as permitted by applicable law. These factors could significantly increase our payment obligations under the plans, and
as a result, adversely affect our business and overall financial condition.
18
Table of Contents
LEGAL & REGULATORY RISKS
Our global operations are subject to a wide-range of trade and anti-corruption laws and regulations.
 
Due to the international scope of our operations, we are subject to a complex system of import- and export-related laws and
regulations. These include U.S. regulations issued by Customs and Border Protection, the Bureau of Industry and Security, the
Office of Antiboycott Compliance, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls and the Office of Foreign Assets Control, as well as
the counterparts of these agencies in other countries.  Any alleged or actual violations may subject us to increased government
scrutiny, investigation and civil and criminal penalties, and may limit our ability to import or export our products or to provide
services outside the United States.  Furthermore, embargoes and sanctions imposed by the U.S. and other governments restricting
or prohibiting sales to specific persons or countries or based on product classification may expose us to potential criminal and civil
sanctions. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our operations might be subject.
We also cannot predict in certain locations the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted.
 
In addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their
intermediaries from making improper payments or providing anything of value to improperly influence foreign government
officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or obtaining an unfair advantage. Recent years have seen a substantial
increase in the global enforcement of anti-corruption laws.  Our operations outside the United States, including in developing
countries, expose us to the risk of such violations. Violations of anti-corruption laws or regulations by our employees,
intermediaries acting on our behalf, or our joint venture partners may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions. Violations may
also disrupt our business, and may result in an adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations or financial
condition.
International trade policies may impact demand for our products and our competitive position.
 
Government policies on international trade and investment such as import quotas, capital controls or tariffs, whether adopted by
individual governments or addressed by regional trade blocs, can affect the demand for our products and services, impact the
competitive position of our products or prevent us from being able to sell products in certain countries.  The implementation of
more restrictive trade policies (such as more detailed inspections, higher tariffs or new barriers to entry) in countries where we sell
large quantities of products and services could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.  For
example, a government’s adoption of “buy national” policies or retaliation by another government against such policies could have
a negative impact on our results of operations.
We may incur additional tax expense or become subject to additional tax exposure.
 
We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous other jurisdictions. Our future results of operations could be
adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings between U.S. and non-U.S.
jurisdictions or among jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates. In addition, our future results of operations could also be
adversely affected by changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax laws or treaties or in their application or interpretation,
changes in tax rates, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and
liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings indefinitely reinvested in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions, the results of audits and
examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures. We are also subject to the continuous
examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the
likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations. If our effective tax rates were to increase, or if the ultimate
determination of our taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, our operating results, cash flows and
financial condition could be adversely affected. For information regarding additional legal matters related to our taxes, please see
Note 6 — “Income taxes” and Note 22 — “Environmental and legal matters” of Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data” to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
19
Table of Contents
Costs associated with lawsuits or investigations or adverse rulings in enforcement or other legal proceedings may have an
adverse effect on our results of operations.
 
We are subject to a variety of legal proceedings and legal compliance risks in virtually every part of the world. We face risk of
exposure to various types of claims, lawsuits and government investigations. We are involved in various claims and lawsuits related
to product design, manufacture and performance liability (including claimed asbestos exposure), contracts, employment issues,
environmental matters, intellectual property rights, tax, securities and other legal proceedings that arise in and outside of the
ordinary course of our business.  The industries in which we operate are also periodically reviewed or investigated by regulators,
which could lead to enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims.  It is not possible to predict
with certainty the outcome of claims, investigations and lawsuits, and we could in the future incur judgments, fines or penalties or
enter into settlements of lawsuits and claims that could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or
financial condition in any particular period. 
The global and diverse nature of our operations means that legal and compliance risks will continue to exist and additional legal
proceedings and other contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty, may arise from time to time. In
addition, subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of loss contingencies recorded as
a reserve and require us to make payments in excess of our reserves. Such payments could have an adverse effect on our reputation,
business and results of operations or financial condition.
New regulations or changes in financial services regulation could adversely impact Caterpillar and Cat Financial.
 
Cat Financial’s operations are highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations where it operates, which can impose
significant additional costs and/or restrictions on its business. In the United States, for example, certain Cat Financial activities are
subject to the U.S. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank), which includes extensive
provisions regulating the financial services industry. As a result, Cat Financial has become and could continue to become subject to
additional regulatory costs that could be significant and have an adverse effect on Cat Financial’s and our results of operations and
financial condition. Changes in regulations or additional regulations in the United States or internationally impacting the financial
services industry could also add significant cost or operational constraints that might have an adverse effect on Cat Financial’s and
our results of operations and financial condition.
We are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations that impose significant compliance costs.
 
Our facilities, operations and products are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations globally, including
laws and regulations governing emissions to noise, air, releases to soil and discharges to water and the generation, handling,
storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous waste materials. Some environmental laws impose
strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the remediation of the release of hazardous substances, even for conduct that
was lawful at the time it occurred, or for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators, predecessors or other third parties.
Failure to comply with environmental laws could expose us to penalties or clean-up costs, civil or criminal liability and sanctions
on certain of our activities, as well as damage to property or natural resources. The potential liabilities, sanctions, damages and
remediation efforts related to any non-compliance with such laws and regulations could negatively impact our ability to conduct
our operations and our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurances that we will not be
adversely affected by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to existing or subsequently acquired operations or under present laws
and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future.
Environmental laws and regulations may change from time to time, as may related interpretations and other guidance. Changes in
environmental laws or regulations could result in higher expenses and payments. Uncertainty relating to environmental laws or
regulations may also affect how we conduct our operations and structure our investments and could limit our ability to enforce our
rights. Changes in environmental and climate change laws or regulations, including laws relating to greenhouse gas emissions,
could lead to new or additional investment in product designs and could increase environmental compliance expenditures. Changes
in climate change concerns, or in the regulation of such concerns, including greenhouse gas emissions, could subject us to
additional costs and restrictions, including increased energy and raw materials costs. If environmental laws or regulations are either
changed or adopted and impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements upon us or our products, they
could negatively impact our reputation, business, capital expenditures, results of operations, financial condition and competitive
position.
20
Table of Contents
The Company’s amended and restated bylaws provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the
exclusive forum for certain legal actions between the Company and its shareholders, which could discourage claims or limit
the ability of the Company’s shareholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum viewed by the shareholders as more favorable
for disputes with the Company or the Company’s directors, officers or other employees.
The Company’s amended and restated bylaws provide to the fullest extent permitted by law that unless the Company consents in
writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum
for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of the Company, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary
duty owed by any director, officer or other employee of the Company to the Company or the Company’s shareholders, (iii) any
action asserting a claim against the Company or any director or officer or other employee of the Company arising pursuant to any
provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law or the Company’s certificate of incorporation or bylaws (as either may be
amended from time to time) or (iv) any action asserting a claim against the Company or any director or officer or other employee of
the Company governed by the internal affairs doctrine.
The exclusive forum provisions in our bylaws could limit our shareholders’ ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds
favorable for disputes with the Company or its directors, officers or other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find the
choice of forum provision contained in the Company’s amended and restated bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an
action, the Company may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions. The exclusive forum
provision in the Company’s amended and restated bylaws will not preclude or contract the scope of exclusive federal or concurrent
jurisdiction for actions brought under the federal securities laws including the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the respective rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments.
 
None.
 
21
Table of Contents
Item 1C.Executive Officers of the Registrant.
Name and agePresent Caterpillar Inc. position
and date of initial electionPrincipal positions held during the
past five years if other than
Caterpillar Inc. position currently held
D. James Umpleby III (64) Chairman of the Board (2018) and Chief
Executive Officer (2017)Group President (2013-2016)
Andrew R.J. Bonfield (60) Chief Financial Officer (2018) Group Chief Financial Officer for a
multinational electricity and gas utility
company (2010-2018)
Bob De Lange (53) Group President (2017) Vice President (2015-2016), Worldwide
Product Manager, Medium Wheel Loaders,
(2013-2014)
Denise C. Johnson (56) Group President (2016) Vice President (2012-2016)
Joseph E. Creed (47) Group President (2021) Vice President, Oil & Gas and Marine
Division (2019-2020), Interim Chief Financial
Officer (2018), Vice President, Finance
Services Division (2017), Group Chief
Financial Officer, Energy and Transportation
(2013-2016)
Anthony D. Fassino (52) Group President (2021) Vice President, Building Construction
Products (2018-2020), Director of Worldwide
Forestry Products (2016-2018)
Suzette M. Long (57) Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel
(2017)Interim Executive Vice President, Law and
Public Policy (2017), Deputy General Counsel
(2013-2017)
Cheryl H. Johnson (62) Chief Human Resources Officer (2017) Executive Vice President of Human Resources
for a global multi-industry aerospace, defense
and industrial manufacturing company (2012-
2017)
William E. Schaupp (51) Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer
(2022)Finance Director, Global Finance Services
Division (2021-2022), Vice President and
Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of
PPG Industries, Inc. (2018-2021), Assistant
Controller and Acting Controller for PPG
Industries, Inc. (2018), Director Corporate
Audit Services for PPG Industries, Inc. (2017-
2018)
Item 2.Properties.
 
General Information
Caterpillar’s operations are highly integrated.  Although the majority of our plants are involved primarily in production relating to
our Construction Industries, Resource Industries or Energy & Transportation segments, several plants are involved in
manufacturing relating to more than one business segment.  In addition, several plants reported in our financial statements under
the All Other segment are involved in the manufacturing of components that are used in the assembly of products for more than one
business segment.  Caterpillar’s parts distribution centers are involved in the storage and distribution of parts for Construction
Industries, Resource Industries and Energy & Transportation.  The research and development activities carried on at our Technical
Centers in Aurora and Mossville, Illinois involve products for Construction Industries, Resource Industries and Energy &
Transportation.
 
We believe the properties we own to be generally well maintained and adequate for present use.  Through planned capital
expenditures, we expect these properties to remain adequate for future needs.  Properties we lease are covered by leases expiring
over terms of generally one to ten years.  We do not anticipate any difficulty in retaining occupancy of any leased facilities, either
by renewing leases prior to expiration or by replacing them with equivalent leased facilities.
 
22
Table of Contents
Headquarters and Other Key Offices
Our corporate headquarters is in a leased office located in Irving, Texas. Our Financial Products business is headquartered in offices
in Nashville, Tennessee. Additional key offices are located inside and outside the United States.
Technical Center, Training Centers, Demonstration Areas and Proving Grounds
We operate Technical Centers located in Aurora and Mossville, Illinois; Wuxi, China; and Chennai, India. Our demonstration
centers are located in Tinaja Hills, Arizona; Edwards, Illinois; Chichibu, Japan and Malaga, Spain. We have various other technical
and training centers, demonstration areas and proving grounds located both inside and outside the United States.
Parts Distribution Centers
Distribution of our parts is conducted from parts distribution centers inside and outside the United States. We operate parts
distribution centers in the following locations: Arvin, California; Denver, Colorado; Miami, Florida; Atlanta, Georgia; Morton,
Illinois; St. Paul, Minnesota; Clayton, Ohio; York, Pennsylvania; Waco, Texas; Spokane, Washington; Melbourne, Australia;
Queensland, Australia; Grimbergen, Belgium; Piracicaba, Brazil; Shanghai, China; Sagami, Japan; San Luis Potosi, Mexico;
Singapore, Republic of Singapore; Moscow, Russia; Johannesburg, South Africa; and Dubai, United Arab Emirates. We also own or
lease other facilities that support our distribution activities.
 
Remanufacturing and Components
Remanufacturing of our products is reported in our Energy & Transportation segment and is conducted primarily at the facilities in
the following locations: Franklin, Indiana; Bogor, Indonesia; Corinth, Mississippi; Prentiss County, Mississippi; West Fargo, North
Dakota; Piracicaba, Brazil; Shanghai, China; and Nuevo Laredo, Mexico.
Component manufacturing is reported in the All Other segment and is conducted primarily at facilities in the following locations:
East Peoria, Illinois; Mapleton, Illinois; Peoria, Illinois; Bogor, Indonesia; Menominee, Michigan; Boonville, Missouri; West
Plains, Missouri; Goldsboro, North Carolina; Sumter, South Carolina; Tianjin, China; Xuzhou, China; Atessa, Italy; Bazzano, Italy;
Frosinone, Italy; San Eusebio, Italy; Ramos Arizpe, Mexico; Pyeongtaek, South Korea; and Skinningrove, United Kingdom. 
We also lease or own other facilities that support our remanufacturing and component manufacturing activities.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing of products for our Construction Industries, Resource Industries and Energy & Transportation segments is
conducted primarily at the locations listed below.  These facilities are believed to be suitable for their intended purposes, with
adequate capacities for current and projected needs for existing products.
Our principal manufacturing facilities include those used by the following segments in the following locations:
23
Table of Contents
Segment U.S. Facilities Facilities Outside the U.S.
   
Construction Industries Arkansas:  North Little Rock Brazil: Campo Largo, Piracicaba
 Georgia: Athens China: Suzhou, Wujiang, Xuzhou, Qingzhou
 Illinois:  Decatur, East Peoria France: Grenoble, Echirolles
 Kansas: Wamego Hungary: Godollo
Minnesota: Brooklyn Park India: Hosur, Thiruvallur
 North Carolina: Clayton, Sanford Italy: Minerbio, Cattolica
 Texas: Victoria Japan: Akashi
Mexico: Torreon
 Netherlands: Den Bosch
Poland: Janow, Sosnowiec
  Russia: Tosno
Thailand: Rayong
  United Kingdom: Desford, Stockton
   
Resource Industries Illinois:  Decatur, East Peoria China: Qingzhou, Wuxi
 South Carolina: Sumter Germany: Dortmund, Lunen
 Texas: Denison India:  Thiruvallur
Wisconsin: South Milwaukee Indonesia: Batam
 Italy: Jesi
 Mexico: Acuna, Monterrey, Reynosa
  Russia: Tosno
 Thailand: Rayong
 United Kingdom: Peterlee
 
   
Energy & TransportationAlabama: Albertville, Montgomery Australia: Cardiff, Perth, Redbank, Revesby
California:  San Diego Brazil: Curitiba, Hortolandia, Piracicaba, Sete
Lagoas
Georgia:  Griffin, Patterson China: Tianjin, Wuxi
 Illinois: East Peoria, Mossville, Mapleton,
Pontiac Czech Republic: Zatec, Zebrak
 Indiana: Lafayette, Muncie Germany: Kiel, Mannheim, Rostock
 Kentucky: Decoursey, Mayfield India: Aurangabad, Hosur
Oklahoma: Broken Arrow Italy: Pistoria
North Carolina: Winston-Salem Mexico: San Luis Potosi, Tijuana
Texas:  Channelview, DeSoto, Fort Worth,
Mabank, San Antonio, Schertz, Seguin,
ShermanUnited Kingdom: Larne, Peterborough,
Sandiacre, South Queensferry, Springvale,
Stafford, Wimborne
  
24
Table of Contents
Item 3.Legal Proceedings.
 
Certain legal proceedings in which we are involved are discussed in Note 22 — "Environmental and legal matters" of Part II, Item
8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and should be considered an integral part of Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings",
which is hereby incorporated by reference. 
Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures.
 
Not applicable.
PART II
Item 5.Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.
 
Common Stock (NYSE: CAT)
Listing Information: Caterpillar common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange in the United States, and on stock
exchanges in France and Switzerland.
 
Number of Shareholders: Shareholders of record at the end of 2022 totaled 21,935, compared with 22,559 at the end of 2021.
25
Table of Contents
Performance Graph:  Total Cumulative Shareholder Return for Five-Year Period Ending December 31, 2022
The graph below shows the cumulative shareholder return assuming an investment of $100 on December 31, 2017, and
reinvestment of dividends issued thereafter.
 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Caterpillar Inc. $ 100.00 $ 82.44 $ 98.53 $ 125.10 $ 145.06 $ 172.04 
S&P 500 $ 100.00 $ 95.62 $ 125.72 $ 148.85 $ 191.58 $ 156.88 
S&P 500 Machinery $ 100.00 $ 85.36 $ 111.22 $ 137.27 $ 164.94 $ 167.25 
26
Table of Contents
Non-U.S. Employee Stock Purchase Plans
 
As of December 31, 2022, we had 28 employee stock purchase plans (the “EIP Plans”) administered outside the United States for
our non-U.S. employees, which had approximately 13,000 active participants in the aggregate.  During the fourth quarter of 2022,
approximately 71,000 shares of Caterpillar common stock were purchased by the EIP Plans pursuant to the terms of such plans.
 
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
PeriodTotal Number
of Shares
PurchasedAverage Price
Paid per ShareTotal Number
of Shares Purchased
as Part of Publicly
Announced ProgramApproximate Dollar
Value of Shares that
May Yet be Purchased
under the Program (in
billions)
October 1-31, 2022 3,944,442 $ 178.91 3,944,442 $ 13.014 
November 1-30, 2022 482,300 $ 228.01 482,300 $ 12.904 
December 1-31, 2022 448,257 $ 234.23 448,257 $ 12.799 
Total 4,874,999 $ 188.85 4,874,999 
 In May 2022, the Board approved a new share repurchase authorization (the 2022 Authorization) of up to $15.0 billion of Caterpillar common stock effective
August 1, 2022, with no expiration. As of December 31, 2022, approximately $12.8 billion remained available under the 2022 Authorization.
 In October, November and December of 2022, we repurchased 3.9 million, 0.5 million and 0.5 million shares respectively, for an aggregate of $921 million in
open market transactions at an average price per share of $178.91, $228.01 and $234.23, respectively.
Item 6.[Reserved]2 2 1
1
2
27
Table of Contents
Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
 
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to
provide information that will assist the reader in understanding the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements, the changes in
certain key items in those financial statements between select periods and the primary factors that accounted for those changes. In
addition, we discuss how certain accounting principles, policies and critical estimates affect our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Our discussion also contains certain forward-looking statements related to future events and expectations. This MD&A should be
read in conjunction with our discussion of cautionary statements and significant risks to the company’s business under Item 1A.
Risk Factors of the 2022 Form 10-K.
Highlights for the full-year 2022 include:
•Sales and revenues for 2022 were $59.427 billion, an increase of $8.456 billion, or 17 percent, compared with $50.971 billion
for 2021. Sales were higher across the three primary segments.
•Operating profit as a percent of sales and revenues was 13.3 percent in 2022, compared with 13.5 percent in 2021. Adjusted
operating profit margin was 15.4 percent in 2022, compared with 13.7 percent in 2021.
•Profit per share for 2022 was $12.64, and excluding the items in the table below, adjusted profit per share was $13.84. Profit
per share for 2021 was $11.83, and excluding the items in the table below, adjusted profit per share was $10.81.
•In order for our results to be more meaningful to our readers, we have separately quantified the impact of several significant
items. A detailed reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures is included on page 49.
Full Year 2022 Full Year 2021
(Dollars in millions except per share data)Profit Before
TaxesProfit
Per ShareProfit Before
TaxesProfit
Per Share
Profit............................................................................. $ 8,752 $ 12.64 $ 8,204 $ 11.83 
Goodwill impairment..................................................... 925 1.68 — — 
Restructuring costs....................................................... 299 0.43 90 0.15 
Mark-to-market (gains) losses...................................... (606) (0.91) (833) (1.17)
Adjusted profit............................................................... $ 9,370 $ 13.84 $ 7,461 $ 10.81 
•Enterprise operating cash flow was $7.8 billion in 2022. Caterpillar ended 2022 with $7.0 billion of enterprise cash.
OVERVIEW
Our sales and revenues for 2022 were $59.427 billion, an increase of $8.456 billion, or 17 percent, compared with $50.971 billion
for 2021. The increase was primarily due to favorable price realization and higher sales volume, partially offset by unfavorable
currency impacts related to the euro, Australian dollar and Japanese yen. Profit per share was $12.64 in 2022, compared with profit
per share of $11.83 in 2021. Profit was $6.705 billion in 2022, compared with $6.489 billion in 2021. The increase was primarily
due to favorable price realization and higher sales volume, partially offset by unfavorable manufacturing costs, a goodwill
impairment charge, higher selling, general and administrative (SG&A) and research and development (R&D) expenses, lower
mark-to-market gains for remeasurement of pension and other postemployment benefit (OPEB) plans and higher restructuring
costs.
Trends and Economic Conditions
Outlook for Key End Markets
In Construction Industries, we see positive momentum in 2023 for North America. We expect non-residential construction in North
America to grow due to the positive impact of government-related infrastructure investments, healthy backlogs and rental
replenishment. Residential construction continues to moderate due to tightening financial conditions but remains at a healthy level.
In Asia Pacific, excluding China, we expect growth due to public infrastructure spending and supportive commodity prices. We
expect continued weakness in China in the excavator industry above 10-tons, which we anticipate to remain below 2022 levels due
to low construction activity. In EAME, business activity is expected to be about flat versus 2022 based on healthy backlogs and
strong construction demand in the Middle East, offset by uncertain economic conditions in Europe. Construction activity in Latin
America is expected to be flat to slightly down versus a strong 2022 performance.
28
Table of Contents
In Resource Industries, we expect healthy mining demand to continue as commodity prices remain above investment thresholds;
however, customers continue to remain capital disciplined. We anticipate production and utilization levels will remain elevated, and
our autonomous solutions continue to gain momentum. We expect the continuation of high equipment utilization and a low level of
parked trucks, which support future demand for our equipment and services. The energy transition is expected to support increased
commodity demand, expanding our total addressable market and providing opportunities for profitable growth. In heavy
construction and quarry and aggregates, we anticipate continued growth supported by infrastructure and major non-residential
construction projects.
In Energy & Transportation, we expect sales growth due to strong order rates in most applications. In Oil & Gas, although
customers remain disciplined, we are encouraged by continued strength in demand and order intake for the year. New equipment
orders for Solar Turbines continue to be robust. Power Generation orders are expected to remain healthy, including data center
strength. Industrial remains healthy with momentum continuing for 2023. In Rail, North America new locomotives are expected to
remain muted. We anticipate strength in high-speed marine as customers continue to upgrade aging fleets.
Company Trends and Expectations
For the full-year 2023, we expect sales to increase compared to 2022, supported by favorable price realization. Although we expect
stronger sales of equipment to end users in 2023, we do not anticipate a significant change in dealer inventory by year end. 2023
sales are expected to follow a more traditional seasonal pattern, with first quarter being the lowest of the year. Demand remains
strong given the robust order backlog and improving supply chain dynamics. In addition, services momentum is expected to
continue this year as we continue to execute our services growth strategy.
We expect sales to increase in the first quarter of 2023, compared to the first quarter of 2022, driven by favorable price realization
and slightly stronger sales volume, which reflects higher sales of equipment to end users. We expect a seasonal build in dealer
inventory in the first quarter of 2023. Sales should increase across the three primary segments in the first quarter of 2023, compared
to the first quarter of 2022.
We expect operating profit to increase in 2023, compared to 2022. Pricing actions from 2022 will continue to impact 2023 and we
will evaluate future actions as appropriate to offset inflationary pressures. We currently expect to see moderation of price
realization and input cost inflation throughout 2023. Price realization is expected to more than offset manufacturing costs for 2023.
Increases in SG&A/R&D expenses are expected to exceed the benefit of lower short-term incentive compensation expense in 2023
as we continue to invest in strategic initiatives such as services growth and technology, including digital, electrification and
autonomy. We anticipate higher pension expense within other income (expense) in 2023, compared to 2022, due to higher interest
costs from higher interest rates. This non-cash item is estimated to be just over $300 million for the full year, or about $80 million
per quarter. Finally, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar in 2022 acted as a benefit to profit within other income (expense), which
would not re-occur if the weakening we have seen in rates continues.
Global Business Conditions
We continue to monitor a variety of external factors around the world, such as supply chain disruptions, inflationary cost and labor
pressures. Areas of particular focus include certain components, transportation and raw materials. Transportation shortages have
resulted in delays and increased costs. In addition, our suppliers are dealing with availability issues and freight delays, which could
impact production in our facilities. Contingency plans have been developed and continue to be modified to minimize supply chain
challenges that may impact our ability to meet increasing customer demand. We continue to assess the environment and are taking
appropriate price actions in response to rising costs.
Risk Factors
Risk factors are disclosed within Item 1A. Risk Factors of the 2022 Form 10-K.
Notes:
•Glossary of terms included on pages 35-37; first occurrence of terms shown in bold italics.
•Information on non-GAAP financial measures is included on page 49.
•Some amounts within this report are rounded to the millions or billions and may not add. In addition, the sum of the
components reported across periods may not equal the total amount reported year-to-date due to rounding.
29
Table of Contents
2022 COMPARED WITH 2021
CONSOLIDATED SALES AND REVENUES
The chart above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in consolidated sales and revenues between 2021 (at left) and 2022 (at right). Caterpillar management
utilizes these charts internally to visually communicate with the company’s Board of Directors and employees.
Total sales and revenues for 2022 were $59.427 billion, an increase of $8.456 billion, or 17 percent, compared with $50.971 billion
in 2021. The increase was primarily due to favorable price realization and higher sales volume, partially offset by unfavorable
currency impacts related to the euro, Australian dollar and Japanese yen. The increase in sales volume was driven by the impact
from changes in dealer inventories, increased services and higher sales of equipment to end users. Dealers increased their
inventories about $2.4 billion in 2022, compared to a decrease of about $100 million in 2021.
Sales were higher in the three primary segments.
North America sales increased 29 percent driven by favorable price realization, the impact from changes in dealer inventories,
increased services and higher sales of equipment to end users. Dealers increased inventories during 2022, compared to a decrease
during 2021.
Sales increased 33 percent in Latin America due to higher sales of equipment to end users, favorable price realization and the
impact from changes in dealer inventories. Dealers increased inventories more during 2022 than during 2021.
EAME sales increased 6 percent due to favorable price realization, the impact from changes in dealer inventories and higher sales
of equipment to end users, partially offset by unfavorable currency impacts related to the euro and British pound. Dealers increased
inventories more during 2022 than during 2021.
Asia/Pacific sales increased 2 percent driven by favorable price realization, the impact from changes in dealer inventories and
higher services, partially offset by lower sales of equipment to end users and unfavorable currency impacts related to the Australian
dollar and Japanese yen. Dealers increased their inventories during 2022, compared to remaining about flat during 2021.
Dealers increased their inventories about $2.4 billion in 2022, compared to a decrease of about $100 million in 2021. Dealers are
independent, and the reasons for changes in their inventory levels vary, including their expectations of future demand and product
delivery times. Dealers’ demand expectations take into account seasonal changes, macroeconomic conditions, machine rental rates
and other factors. Delivery times can vary based on availability of product from Caterpillar factories and product distribution
centers. We expect dealer inventories to be about flat in 2023 compared to 2022.
30
Table of Contents
Sales and Revenues by Segment
(Millions of dollars)
2021Sales
VolumePrice
Realization CurrencyInter-
Segment /
Other 2022$
Change%
Change
Construction Industries $ 22,106 $ 1,231 $ 2,633 $ (731)$ 30 $ 25,269 $ 3,163 14 %
Resource Industries 9,810 1,372 1,333 (194) (7) 12,314 2,504 26 %
Energy & Transportation 20,287 1,972 1,216 (521) 798 23,752 3,465 17 %
All Other Segment 511 3 4 (7) (61) 450 (61) (12 %)
Corporate Items and Eliminations (4,526) 82 (7) — (760) (5,211) (685)  
Machinery, Energy & Transportation 48,188 4,660 5,179 (1,453) — 56,574 8,386 17 %
Financial Products Segment 3,073 — — — 180 3,253 180 6 %
Corporate Items and Eliminations (290) — — — (110) (400) (110)  
Financial Products Revenues 2,783 — — — 70 2,853 70 3 %
Consolidated Sales and Revenues $ 50,971 $ 4,660 $ 5,179 $ (1,453)$ 70 $ 59,427 $ 8,456 17 %
Sales and Revenues by Geographic Region
North America Latin America EAME Asia/PacificExternal Sales and
Revenues Inter -SegmentTotal Sales and
Revenues
(Millions of dollars) $ % Chg $ % Chg $ % Chg $ % Chg $ % Chg $ % Chg $ % Chg
2022           
Construction Industries $12,367 28% $2,843 49% $ 5,099 5% $ 4,818 (13%) $25,127 14% $ 142 27% $25,269 14 %
Resource Industries 4,531 52% 1,840 7% 2,205 11% 3,437 23% 12,013 26% 301 (2%) 12,314 26 %
Energy & Transportation 9,175 21% 1,784 45% 5,232 7% 3,146 8% 19,337 16% 4,415 22% 23,752 17 %
All Other Segment 64 14% 2 —% (66) (467%) 145 110% 145 —% 305 (17%) 450 (12 %)
Corporate Items and Eliminations (29) (1) (5) (13) (48) (5,163) (5,21 1)
Machinery , Energy & Transportation 26,108 29% 6,468 33% 12,465 6% 11,533 2% 56,574 17% — —% 56,574 17 %
Financial Products Segment 2,078 7% 348 31% 396 (1%) 431 (8%) 3,253 6% — —% 3,253 6 %
Corporate Items and Eliminations (205) (78) (47) (70) (400) — (400)
Financial Pr oducts Revenues 1,873 4% 270 26% 349 (5%) 361 (10%) 2,853 3% — —% 2,853 3 %
Consolidated Sales and Revenues $27,981 27% $6,738 32% $12,814 6% $11,894 1% $59,427 17% $ — —% $59,427 17 %
2021           
Construction Industries $9,676 $1,913 $ 4,858 $ 5,547 $21,994  $ 112 $22,106 
Resource Industries 2,987 1,724 1,987 2,804 9,502  308 9,810 
Energy & Transportation 7,611 1,233 4,908 2,918 16,670  3,617 20,287 
All Other Segment 56 2 18 69 145  366 511 
Corporate Items and Eliminations (106) (1) (1) (15) (123)  (4,403) (4,526)
Machinery , Energy & Transportation 20,224 4,871 11,770 11,323 48,188  — 48,188 
 
Financial Products Segment 1,935 265 402 471 3,073  — 3,073 
Corporate Items and Eliminations (136) (50) (35) (69) (290)  — (290)
Financial Pr oducts Revenues 1,799 215 367 402 2,783  — 2,783 
 
Consolidated Sales and Revenues $22,023 $5,086 $12,137 $11,725 $50,971  $ — $50,971 
 Includes revenues from Machinery , Ener gy & Transportation of $478 million and $351 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively .1
1
1
31
Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED OPERATING PROFIT
The chart above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in consolidated operating profit between 2021 (at left) and 2022 (at right). Caterpillar management
utilizes these charts internally to visually communicate with the company’s Board of Directors and employees. The bar entitled Other includes consolidating
adjustments and Machinery, Energy & Transportation other operating (income) expenses.
Operating profit was $7.904 billion in 2022, an increase of $1.026 billion, or 15 percent, compared with $6.878 billion in 2021. The
increase was primarily due to favorable price realization and higher sales volume, partially offset by higher manufacturing costs, a
goodwill impairment charge, higher SG&A/R&D expenses and higher restructuring costs.
Unfavorable manufacturing costs reflected higher material costs, freight and manufacturing inefficiencies. The increase in
SG&A/R&D expenses was driven by investments aligned with the company's strategy for profitable growth, which included
services growth and technology, such as digital, electrification and autonomy, as well as higher short-term incentive compensation
expense.
Short-term incentive compensation expense is directly related to financial and operational performance, measured against targets
set annually. Expense for 2022 was about $1.4 billion, compared with $1.3 billion in 2021. For 2023, we expect short-term
incentive compensation expense will be about $1.1 billion.
In 2022, the company took a goodwill impairment charge of $925 million and restructuring costs of $193 million related to the Rail
division, both primarily non-cash items. $180 million of the total Rail restructuring costs were recognized in the fourth quarter of
2022. The goodwill impairment charge is related to a lower outlook for the company’s locomotive offerings. The restructuring costs
were primarily related to write-downs in the value of inventory.
Operating profit margin was 13.3 percent in 2022, compared with 13.5 percent in 2021.
Profit (Loss) by Segment
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021$
Change%
Change
Construction Industries $ 4,743 $ 3,732 $ 1,011 27 %
Resource Industries 1,827 1,229 598 49 %
Energy & Transportation 3,309 2,804 505 18 %
All Other Segment (11) (14) 3 21 %
Corporate Items and Eliminations (2,435) (1,388) (1,047)  
Machinery, Energy & Transportation 7,433 6,363 1,070 17 %
Financial Products Segment 864 908 (44) (5 %)
Corporate Items and Eliminations 26 (92) 118  
Financial Products 890 816 74 9 %
Consolidating Adjustments (419) (301) (118)  
Consolidated Operating Profit $ 7,904 $ 6,878 $ 1,026 15 %
32
Table of Contents
Other Profit/Loss and Tax Items
•Interest expense excluding Financial Products in 2022 was $443 million, compared with $488 million in 2021. The
decrease was due to lower average debt outstanding during 2022, compared with 2021.
Other income (expense) in 2022 was income of $1.291 billion, compared with income of $1.814 billion in 2021. The
change was primarily due to lower mark-to-market gains for remeasurement of OPEB plans, lower pension and OPEB
income and unrealized losses on marketable securities, partially offset by higher investment and interest income.
•The provision for income taxes for 2022 reflected an annual effective tax rate of 23.2 percent, compared with 22.9 percent
for 2021, excluding the discrete items discussed below.
On September 8, 2022, the company reached a settlement with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that resolves all
issues for tax years 2007 through 2016, without any penalties. The company’s settlement includes, among other issues, the
resolution of disputed tax treatment of profits earned by Caterpillar SARL (CSARL) from certain parts transactions. We
vigorously contested the IRS’s application of the “substance-over-form” or “assignment-of-income” judicial doctrines and
its proposed increases to tax and imposition of accuracy related penalties. The settlement does not include any increases to
tax in the United States based on those judicial doctrines and does not include any penalties. The final tax assessed by the
IRS for all issues under the settlement was $490 million for the ten-year period. This amount was primarily paid in 2022
along with the associated interest of $250 million. The settlement was within the total amount of gross unrecognized tax
benefits for uncertain tax positions and enables us to avoid the costs and burdens of further disputes with the IRS. As a
result of the settlement, we recorded a discrete tax benefit of $41 million in 2022 to reflect changes in estimates of prior
years’ taxes and related interest, net of tax. We are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the
IRS, and tax years 2017 to 2019 are currently under examination.
The provision for income taxes also included the following:
◦ A tax charge of $124 million related to $606 million of pension and OPEB mark-to-market gains in 2022,
compared to a $190 million tax charge related to $833 million of mark-to-market gains in 2021.
◦ A tax benefit of $49 million to reflect other changes in estimates related to prior year’s U.S. taxes in 2022
compared to $36 million in 2021.
◦A tax benefit of $36 million related to the $925 million goodwill impairment charge in 2022.
◦ A tax benefit of $33 million in 2022, compared with $63 million in 2021, for the settlement of stock-based
compensation awards with associated tax deductions in excess of cumulative U.S. GAAP compensation expense.
◦A tax benefit of $38 million in 2021 to recognize U.S. capital losses.
Construction Industries
Construction Industries’ total sales were $25.269 billion in 2022, an increase of $3.163 billion, or 14 percent, compared with
$22.106 billion in 2021. The increase was due to favorable price realization and higher sales volume, partially offset by unfavorable
currency impacts related to the euro, Japanese yen and Australian dollar. The increase in sales volume was driven by the impact
from changes in dealer inventories and higher sales of aftermarket parts, partially offset by lower sales of equipment to end users.
Dealers increased inventories during 2022, compared to remaining about flat in 2021.
•In North America, sales increased due to favorable price realization, the impact from changes in dealer inventories, higher
sales of equipment to end users and higher sales of aftermarket parts. Dealers decreased inventories during 2021,
compared with an increase during 2022.
•Sales increased in Latin America primarily due to higher sales of equipment to end users, favorable price realization and
the impact from changes in dealer inventories. Dealers increased inventories more during 2022 than during 2021.
•In EAME, sales increased due to favorable price realization and the impact from changes in dealer inventories, partially
offset by unfavorable currency impacts related to the euro. Dealers increased inventories more during 2022 than during
2021.
•Sales decreased in Asia/Pacific due to lower sales of equipment to end users and unfavorable currency impacts related to
the Japanese yen and Australian dollar, partially offset by favorable price realization.
33
Table of Contents
Construction Industries’ profit was $4.743 billion in 2022, an increase of $1.011 billion, or 27 percent, compared with $3.732
billion in 2021. The increase was mainly due to favorable price realization and higher sales volume, partially offset by unfavorable
manufacturing costs and higher SG&A/R&D expenses. Unfavorable manufacturing costs largely reflected higher material costs,
freight and the impact of manufacturing inefficiencies. The increase in SG&A/R&D expenses was primarily driven by investments
aligned with strategic initiatives.
Construction Industries’ profit as a percent of total sales was 18.8 percent in 2022, compared with 16.9 percent in 2021.
Resource Industries
Resource Industries’ total sales were $12.314 billion in 2022, an increase of $2.504 billion, or 26 percent, compared with $9.810
billion in 2021. The increase was due to higher sales volume and favorable price realization. The increase in sales volume was
driven by the impact from changes in dealer inventories, higher sales of equipment to end users and higher sales of aftermarket
parts. Dealers increased inventories during 2022, compared with a decrease during 2021.
Resource Industries’ profit was $1.827 billion in 2022, an increase of $598 million, or 49 percent, compared with $1.229 billion in
2021. The increase was mainly due to favorable price realization and higher sales volume, partially offset by unfavorable
manufacturing costs and higher SG&A/R&D expenses. Unfavorable manufacturing costs largely reflected higher material costs and
freight. The increase in SG&A/R&D expenses was primarily driven by investments aligned with strategic initiatives.
Resource Industries’ profit as a percent of total sales was 14.8 percent for 2022, compared with 12.5 percent for 2021.
Energy & Transportation
Sales by Application
(Millions of dollars)2022 2021$
Change%
 Change
Oil and Gas $ 5,330 $ 4,460 $ 870 20 %
Power Generation 4,940 4,292 648 15 %
Industrial 4,426 3,612 814 23 %
Transportation 4,641 4,306 335 8 %
External Sales 19,337 16,670 2,667 16 %
Inter-Segment 4,415 3,617 798 22 %
Total Sales $ 23,752 $ 20,287 $ 3,465 17 %
Energy & Transportation’s total sales were $23.752 billion in 2022, an increase of $3.465 billion, or 17 percent, compared with
$20.287 billion in 2021. Sales increased across all applications and inter-segment sales. The increase in sales was primarily due to
higher sales volume and favorable price realization, partially offset by unfavorable currency impacts related to the euro, British
pound and Australian dollar.
•Oil and Gas – Sales increased due to higher sales of reciprocating engine aftermarket parts and engines used in well
servicing and gas compression applications. Turbines and turbine-related services were about flat.
•Power Generation – Sales primarily increased in reciprocating engines and aftermarket parts.
•Industrial – Sales increased due to higher demand across all regions.
•Transportation – Sales increased primarily in reciprocating aftermarket parts and engines, mostly driven by marine
applications. Rail services also increased.
Energy & Transportation’s profit was $3.309 billion in 2022, an increase of $505 million, or 18 percent, compared with $2.804
billion in 2021. Unfavorable manufacturing costs and higher SG&A/R&D expenses were more than offset by favorable price
realization and higher sales volume. Unfavorable manufacturing costs largely reflected higher material costs, freight, period
manufacturing costs and the impact of manufacturing inefficiencies. The increase in SG&A/R&D expenses was primarily driven by
investments aligned with strategic initiatives and higher short-term incentive compensation expense.
Energy & Transportation’s profit as a percent of total sales was 13.9 percent in 2022, compared with 13.8 percent in 2021.
Financial Products Segment
Financial Products’ segment revenues were $3.253 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, an increase of $180 million, or 6
percent, compared with $3.073 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to higher average
financing rates across all regions and a favorable impact from returned or repossessed equipment in North America.
34
Table of Contents
Financial Products’ segment profit was $864 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, a decrease of $44 million, or 5 percent,
compared with $908 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The decrease was mainly due to an unfavorable impact from
equity securities in Insurance Services, partially offset by a favorable impact from returned or repossessed equipment.
At the end of 2022, past dues at Cat Financial were 1.89 percent, compared with 1.95 percent at the end of 2021. Write-offs, net of
recoveries, were $46 million for 2022, compared with $205 million for 2021. As of December 31, 2022, Cat Financial's allowance
for credit losses totaled $346 million, or 1.29 percent of finance receivables, compared with $337 million, or 1.22 percent of
finance receivables, at December 31, 2021.
Corporate Items and Eliminations
Expense for corporate items and eliminations was $2.409 billion in 2022, an increase of $929 million from 2021, primarily driven
by a goodwill impairment charge and higher restructuring costs, partially offset by favorable impacts of segment reporting
methodology and a favorable change in fair value adjustments related to deferred compensation plans.
In 2022, the company took a goodwill impairment charge of $925 million and restructuring costs of $193 million related to the Rail
division, both primarily non-cash items. $180 million of the total Rail restructuring costs were recognized in the fourth quarter of
2022. The goodwill impairment charge is related to a lower outlook for the company’s locomotive offerings. The restructuring costs
were primarily related to write-downs in the value of inventory.
2021 COMPARED WITH 2020
For discussions related to the consolidated sales and revenue and consolidated operating profit between 2021 and 2020, refer to Part
II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of the Company's Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, which was filed with the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission on February 16, 2022 and hereby incorporated by reference.
RESTRUCTURING COSTS
On February 1, 2023, we closed on the divestiture of our Longwall business. As a result, we recorded a pre-tax loss of
approximately $600 million, of which $494 million was related to the release of accumulated foreign currency translation
associated with this divestiture. This loss, primarily non-cash, will be included in our first quarter 2023 restructuring costs and is
subject to the finalization of post-closing procedures. In addition, we expect to incur about $100 million of restructuring costs in
2023 primarily related to strategic actions to address a small number of products.
We expect that prior restructuring actions will result in an incremental benefit to operating costs, primarily Costs of goods sold and
SG&A expenses of about $100 million in 2023 compared with 2022.
Additional information related to restructuring costs is included in Note 25 - "Restructuring Costs" of Part II, Item 8 "Financial
Statements and Supplemental Data."
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
1.Adjusted Operating Profit Margin – Operating profit excluding goodwill impairment charges and restructuring income/costs
as a percent of sales and revenues.
2.Adjusted Profit Per Share – Profit per share excluding goodwill impairment charges, pension and OPEB mark-to-market
gains/losses and restructuring income/costs.
3.All Other Segment – Primarily includes activities such as: business strategy; product management and development;
manufacturing and sourcing of filters and fluids, undercarriage, ground-engaging tools, fluid transfer products, precision seals,
rubber sealing and connecting components primarily for Cat® products; parts distribution; integrated logistics solutions;
distribution services responsible for dealer development and administration, including a wholly owned dealer in Japan; dealer
portfolio management and ensuring the most efficient and effective distribution of machines, engines and parts; brand
management and marketing strategy; and digital investments for new customer and dealer solutions that integrate data
analytics with state-of-the-art digital technologies while transforming the buying experience.
4.Consolidating Adjustments – Elimination of transactions between Machinery, Energy & Transportation and Financial
Products.
35
Table of Contents
5.Construction Industries – A segment primarily responsible for supporting customers using machinery in infrastructure and
building construction applications. Responsibilities include business strategy, product design, product management and
development, manufacturing, marketing and sales and product support. The product portfolio includes asphalt pavers; backhoe
loaders; compactors; cold planers; compact track and multi-terrain loaders; mini, small, medium and large track excavators;
forestry machines; material handlers; motor graders; pipelayers; road reclaimers; skid steer loaders; telehandlers; small and
medium track-type tractors; track-type loaders; wheel excavators; compact, small and medium wheel loaders; and related parts
and work tools.
6.Corporate Items and Eliminations – Includes corporate-level expenses, timing differences (as some expenses are reported in
segment profit on a cash basis), methodology differences between segment and consolidated external reporting, certain
restructuring costs and inter-segment eliminations.
7.Currency – With respect to sales and revenues, currency represents the translation impact on sales resulting from changes in
foreign currency exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar. With respect to operating profit, currency represents the net translation
impact on sales and operating costs resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar. Currency
only includes the impact on sales and operating profit for the Machinery, Energy & Transportation line of business; currency
impacts on Financial Products revenues and operating profit are included in the Financial Products portions of the respective
analyses. With respect to other income/expense, currency represents the effects of forward and option contracts entered into by
the company to reduce the risk of fluctuations in exchange rates (hedging) and the net effect of changes in foreign currency
exchange rates on our foreign currency assets and liabilities for consolidated results (translation).
8.Dealer Inventories – Represents dealer machine and engine inventories, excluding aftermarket parts.
9.EAME – A geographic region including Europe, Africa, the Middle East and the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS).
10.Earning Assets – Assets consisting primarily of total finance receivables net of unearned income, plus equipment on operating
leases, less accumulated depreciation at Cat Financial.
11.Energy & Transportation – A segment primarily responsible for supporting customers using reciprocating engines, turbines,
diesel-electric locomotives and related services across industries serving Oil and Gas, Power Generation, Industrial and
Transportation applications, including marine- and rail-related businesses. Responsibilities include business strategy, product
design, product management, development and testing manufacturing, marketing and sales and product support. The product
and services portfolio includes turbines, centrifugal gas compressors, and turbine-related services; reciprocating engine-
powered generator sets; integrated systems and solutions used in the electric power generation industry; reciprocating engines,
drivetrain and integrated systems and solutions for the marine and oil and gas industries; reciprocating engines, drivetrain and
integrated systems and solutions supplied to the industrial industry as well as Cat machinery; electrified powertrain and zero-
emission power sources and service solutions development; and diesel-electric locomotives and components and other rail-
related products and services, including remanufacturing and leasing. Responsibilities also include the remanufacturing of
Caterpillar reciprocating engines and components and remanufacturing services for other companies; and product support of
on-highway vocational trucks for North America.
12.Financial Products – The company defines Financial Products as our finance and insurance subsidiaries, primarily Caterpillar
Financial Services Corporation (Cat Financial) and Caterpillar Insurance Holdings Inc. (Insurance Services). Financial
Products’ information relates to the financing to customers and dealers for the purchase and lease of Caterpillar and other
equipment.
13.Financial Products Segment – Provides financing alternatives to customers and dealers around the world for Caterpillar
products and services, as well as financing for vehicles, power generation facilities and marine vessels that, in most cases,
incorporate Caterpillar products. Financing plans include operating and finance leases, installment sale contracts, repair/rebuild
financing, working capital loans and wholesale financing plans. The segment also provides insurance and risk management
products and services that help customers and dealers manage their business risk. Insurance and risk management products
offered include physical damage insurance, inventory protection plans, extended service coverage and maintenance plans for
machines and engines, and dealer property and casualty insurance. The various forms of financing, insurance and risk
management products offered to customers and dealers help support the purchase and lease of Caterpillar equipment. The
segment also earns revenues from Machinery, Energy & Transportation, but the related costs are not allocated to operating
segments. Financial Products’ segment profit is determined on a pretax basis and includes other income/expense items.
14.Latin America – A geographic region including Central and South American countries and Mexico.
15.Machinery, Energy & Transportation (ME&T) – The company defines ME&T as Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries,
excluding Financial Products. ME&T’s information relates to the design, manufacturing and marketing of its products.
36
Table of Contents
16.Machinery, Energy & Transportation Other Operating (Income) Expenses – Comprised primarily of gains/losses on
disposal of long-lived assets, gains/losses on divestitures and legal settlements and accruals.
17.Manufacturing Costs – Manufacturing costs exclude the impacts of currency and represent the volume-adjusted change for
variable costs and the absolute dollar change for period manufacturing costs. Variable manufacturing costs are defined as
having a direct relationship with the volume of production. This includes material costs, direct labor and other costs that vary
directly with production volume, such as freight, power to operate machines and supplies that are consumed in the
manufacturing process. Period manufacturing costs support production but are defined as generally not having a direct
relationship to short-term changes in volume. Examples include machinery and equipment repair, depreciation on
manufacturing assets, facility support, procurement, factory scheduling, manufacturing planning and operations management.
18.Mark-to-market gains/losses – Represents the net gain or loss of actual results differing from the company’s assumptions and
the effects of changing assumptions for our defined benefit pension and OPEB plans. These gains and losses are immediately
recognized through earnings upon the annual remeasurement in the fourth quarter, or on an interim basis as triggering events
warrant remeasurement.
19.Pension and Other Postemployment Benefits (OPEB) – The company’s defined-benefit pension and postretirement benefit
plans.
20.Price Realization – The impact of net price changes excluding currency and new product introductions. Price realization
includes geographic mix of sales, which is the impact of changes in the relative weighting of sales prices between geographic
regions.
21.Resource Industries – A segment primarily responsible for supporting customers using machinery in mining, heavy
construction and quarry and aggregates. Responsibilities include business strategy, product design, product management and
development, manufacturing, marketing and sales and product support. The product portfolio includes large track-type tractors;
large mining trucks; hard rock vehicles; longwall miners; electric rope shovels; draglines; hydraulic shovels; rotary drills; large
wheel loaders; off-highway trucks; articulated trucks; wheel tractor scrapers; wheel dozers; landfill compactors; soil
compactors; select work tools; machinery components; electronics and control systems and related parts. In addition to
equipment, Resource Industries also develops and sells technology products and services to provide customers fleet
management, equipment management analytics, autonomous machine capabilities, safety services and mining performance
solutions. Resource Industries also manages areas that provide services to other parts of the company, including strategic
procurement, lean center of excellence, integrated manufacturing, research and development for hydraulic systems,
automation, electronics and software for Cat machines and engines.
22.Restructuring Costs – May include costs for employee separation, long-lived asset impairments and contract terminations.
These costs are included in Other operating (income) expenses except for defined-benefit plan curtailment losses and special
termination benefits, which are included in Other income (expense). Restructuring costs also include other exit-related costs,
which may consist of accelerated depreciation, inventory write-downs, building demolition, equipment relocation and project
management costs and LIFO inventory decrement benefits from inventory liquidations at closed facilities, all of which are
primarily included in Cost of goods sold.
23.Sales Volume – With respect to sales and revenues, sales volume represents the impact of changes in the quantities sold for
Machinery, Energy & Transportation as well as the incremental sales impact of new product introductions, including
emissions-related product updates. With respect to operating profit, sales volume represents the impact of changes in the
quantities sold for Machinery, Energy & Transportation combined with product mix as well as the net operating profit impact
of new product introductions, including emissions-related product updates. Product mix represents the net operating profit
impact of changes in the relative weighting of Machinery, Energy & Transportation sales with respect to total sales. The impact
of sales volume on segment profit includes inter-segment sales.
24.Services – Enterprise services include, but are not limited to, aftermarket parts, Financial Products revenues and other service-
related revenues. Machinery, Energy & Transportation segments exclude most Financial Products revenues.
37
Table of Contents
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
Sources of funds
 
We generate significant capital resources from operating activities, which are the primary source of funding for our ME&T
operations. Funding for these businesses is also available from commercial paper and long-term debt issuances. Financial Products’
operations are funded primarily from commercial paper, term debt issuances and collections from its existing portfolio. During
2022, we had positive operating cash flow within both our ME&T and Financial Products' operations. On a consolidated basis, we
ended 2022 with $7.00 billion of cash, a decrease of $2.25 billion from year-end 2021. In addition, ME&T has invested in
available-for-sale debt securities that are considered highly liquid and are available for current operations. These securities are
included in Prepaid expenses and other current assets and Other assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and
were $1.48 billion at the end of December 31, 2022. We intend to maintain a strong cash and liquidity position.
 
Consolidated operating cash flow for 2022 was $7.77 billion, up $568 million compared to 2021. The increase was primarily due to
higher profit before taxes adjusted for non-cash items and decreased working capital requirements. Within working capital, changes
in receivables, customer advances and accrued expenses favorably impacted cash flow, but were partially offset by changes in
accounts payable. Partially offsetting these items were higher payments for short-term incentive compensation in the first quarter of
2022 as well as higher cash taxes paid which includes payments related to settlements with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.
Total debt as of December 31, 2022 was $36.99 billion, a decrease of $796 million from year-end 2021. Debt related to ME&T
decreased $174 million in 2022. Debt related to Financial products decreased by $617 million due to portfolio funding
requirements.
 
We have three global credit facilities with a syndicate of banks totaling $10.50 billion (Credit Facility) available in the aggregate to
both Caterpillar and Cat Financial for general liquidity purposes. Based on management’s allocation decision, which can be revised
from time to time, the portion of the Credit Facility available to ME&T as of December 31, 2022 was $2.75 billion. Information on
our Credit Facility is as follows:
•In September 2022, we entered into a new 364-day facility. The 364-day facility of $3.15 billion (of which $825 million is
available to ME&T) expires in August 2023.
•In September 2022, we amended and restated the three-year facility (as amended and restated, the "three-year facility").
The three-year facility of $2.73 billion (of which $715 million is available to ME&T) expires in August 2025.
•In September 2022, we amended and restated the five-year facility (as amended and restated, the "five-year facility"). The
five-year facility of $4.62 billion (of which $1.21 billion is available to ME&T) expires in September 2027.
At December 31, 2022, Caterpillar’s consolidated net worth was $15.93 billion, which was above the $9.00 billion required under
the Credit Facility.  The consolidated net worth is defined as the consolidated shareholders' equity including preferred stock but
excluding the pension and other postretirement benefits balance within Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
At December 31, 2022, Cat Financial’s covenant interest coverage ratio was 2.36 to 1.  This was above the 1.15 to 1 minimum
ratio, calculated as (1) profit excluding income taxes, interest expense and net gain/(loss) from interest rate derivatives to
(2) interest expense calculated at the end of each calendar quarter for the rolling four quarter period then most recently ended,
required by the Credit Facility.
In addition, at December 31, 2022, Cat Financial’s six-month covenant leverage ratio was 7.05 to 1 and year-end covenant leverage
ratio was 7.21 to 1.  This was below the maximum ratio of debt to net worth of 10 to 1, calculated (1) on a monthly basis as the
average of the leverage ratios determined on the last day of each of the six preceding calendar months and (2) at each December 31,
required by the Credit Facility.
38
Table of Contents
In the event Caterpillar or Cat Financial does not meet one or more of their respective financial covenants under the Credit Facility
in the future (and are unable to obtain a consent or waiver), the syndicate of banks may terminate the commitments allocated to the
party that does not meet its covenants. Additionally, in such event, certain of Cat Financial's other lenders under other loan
agreements where similar financial covenants or cross default provisions are applicable, may, at their election, choose to pursue
remedies under those loan agreements, including accelerating the repayment of outstanding borrowings.  At December 31, 2022,
there were no borrowings under the Credit Facility.
Our total credit commitments and available credit as of December 31, 2022 were:
 December  31, 2022
(Millions of dollars)
ConsolidatedMachinery ,
Energy &
TransportationFinancial
Products
Credit lines available:    
Global credit facilities $ 10,500  $ 2,750  $ 7,750  
Other external 3,649  158 3,491  
Total credit lines available 14,149  2,908  11,241  
Less: Commercial paper outstanding (5,455) — (5,455)
Less: Utilized credit (982) (3) (979)
Available credit $ 7,712  $ 2,905  $ 4,807  
 
The other consolidated credit lines with banks as of December 31, 2022 totaled $3.65 billion. These committed and uncommitted
credit lines, which may be eligible for renewal at various future dates or have no specified expiration date, are used primarily by
our subsidiaries for local funding requirements.  Caterpillar or Cat Financial may guarantee subsidiary borrowings under these
lines.
 
We receive debt ratings from the major credit rating agencies. Moody’s, Fitch and S&P maintain a “mid-A” debt rating. A
downgrade of our credit ratings by any of the major credit rating agencies could result in increased borrowing costs and could make
access to certain credit markets more difficult. In the event economic conditions deteriorate such that access to debt markets
becomes unavailable, ME&T’s operations would rely on cash flow from operations, use of existing cash balances, borrowings from
Cat Financial and access to our committed credit facilities. Our Financial Products’ operations would rely on cash flow from its
existing portfolio, existing cash balances, access to our committed credit facilities and other credit line facilities of Cat Financial,
and potential borrowings from Caterpillar. In addition, we maintain a support agreement with Cat Financial, which requires
Caterpillar to remain the sole owner of Cat Financial and may, under certain circumstances, require Caterpillar to make payments to
Cat Financial should Cat Financial fail to maintain certain financial ratios.
We facilitate voluntary supply chain finance programs (the “Programs”) through participating financial institutions. The Programs
are available to a wide range of suppliers and allow them the option to manage their cash flow. We are not a party to the agreements
between the participating financial institutions and the suppliers in connection with the Programs. The range of payment terms we
negotiate with our suppliers is consistent, irrespective of whether a supplier participates in the Programs. The amounts payable to
participating financial institutions for suppliers who voluntarily participate in the Programs and included in accounts payable in the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position were $862 million and $822 million at December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021,
respectively. The amounts settled through the Programs and paid to participating financial institutions were $5.4 billion and $4.1
billion in 2022 and 2021, respectively. We account for payments made under the Programs, the same as our other accounts payable,
as a reduction to our cash flows from operations. We do not believe that changes in the availability of supply chain financing will
have a significant impact on our liquidity.
Material cash requirements for contractual obligations
We believe our balances of cash and cash equivalents of $7.00 billion and available-for-sale debt securities of $1.48 billion as of
December 31, 2022, along with cash generated by ongoing operations and continued access to debt markets, will be sufficient to
satisfy our cash requirements over the next 12 months and beyond.
We have committed cash outflows related to postretirement benefit obligations, long-term debt and operating lease agreements. See
Notes 12, 14 and 20, respectively, of Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information.
39
Table of Contents
We have short-term obligations related to the purchase of goods and services made in the ordinary course of business. These consist
of invoices received and recorded as liabilities as of December 31, 2022, but scheduled for payment in 2023 of $8.69 billion. In
addition, we have contractual obligations for material and services on order at December 31, 2022, but not yet invoiced or
delivered, of $7.64 billion.
We also have long-term contractual obligations primarily for logistics services agreements; systems support, software licenses and
development contracts; information technology consulting contracts and outsourcing contracts for benefit plan administration.
These obligations total $1.06 billion, with $537 million due in the next 12 months.
Machinery, Energy & Transportation
 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $6.36 billion in 2022, compared with $7.18 billion in 2021. The decrease was
primarily due to payments for short-term incentive compensation in the first quarter of 2022, higher payments for taxes which
includes payments related to settlements with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and increased working capital requirements in
2022. Within working capital, changes in accounts payable unfavorably impacted cash flow but were partially offset by favorable
changes in customer advances and accounts receivable. Partially offsetting these items were higher profit before taxes adjusted for
non-cash items.
Net cash used for investing activities in 2022 was $1.81 billion, compared with net cash used of $1.23 billion in 2021. The change
was primarily due to decreased activity related to intercompany lending with Financial Products and was partially offset by
decreases in net investment activity.
Net cash used for financing activities during 2022 was $6.80 billion, compared with net cash used of $6.30 billion in 2021. The
change was primarily due to higher share repurchases in 2022 and the absence of proceeds from debt issuance which occurred in
2021. These items were partially offset by lower repayments of maturing debt in 2022.
 
While our short-term priorities for the use of cash may vary from time to time as business needs and conditions dictate, our long-
term cash deployment strategy is focused on the following priorities. Our top priority is to maintain a strong financial position in
support of a mid-A rating. Next, we intend to fund operational requirements and commitments. Then, we intend to fund priorities
that profitably grow the company and return capital to shareholders through dividend growth and share repurchases. Additional
information on cash deployment is as follows:
 
Strong financial position — Our top priority is to maintain a strong financial position in support of a mid-A rating. We track a
diverse group of financial metrics that focus on liquidity, leverage, cash flow and margins which align with our cash
deployment actions and the various methodologies used by the major credit rating agencies.
Operational excellence and commitments — Capital expenditures were $1.30 billion during 2022, compared to $1.13 billion
in 2021. We expect ME&T’s capital expenditures in 2023 to be around $1.5 billion. We made $346 million of contributions to
our pension and OPEB plans during 2022. In comparison, we made $340 million of contributions to our pension and OPEB
plans in 2021. We expect to make approximately $372 million of contributions to our pension and OPEB plans in 2023.
 
Fund strategic growth initiatives and return capital to shareholders — We intend to utilize our liquidity and debt capacity
to fund targeted investments that drive long-term profitable growth focused in the areas of expanded offerings and services,
including acquisitions.
As part of our capital allocation strategy, ME&T free cash flow is a liquidity measure we use to determine the cash generated
and available for financing activities including debt repayments, dividends and share repurchases. We define ME&T free cash
flow as cash from ME&T operations less capital expenditures, excluding discretionary pension and other postretirement
benefit plan contributions and cash payments related to settlements with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. A goal of our
capital allocation strategy is to return substantially all ME&T free cash flow to shareholders over time in the form of dividends
and share repurchases, while maintaining our mid-A rating.
40
Table of Contents
Our share repurchase plans are subject to the company’s cash deployment priorities and are evaluated on an ongoing basis
considering the financial condition of the company and the economic outlook, corporate cash flow, the company's liquidity
needs and the health and stability of global credit markets. The timing and amount of future repurchases may vary depending
on market conditions and investing priorities. In July 2018, the Board of Directors approved an authorization to repurchase up
to $10.0 billion of Caterpillar common stock (the 2018 Authorization) effective January 1, 2019, with no expiration. In May
2022, the Board approved a new share repurchase authorization (the 2022 Authorization) of up to $15.0 billion of Caterpillar
common stock effective August 1, 2022 with no expiration. Utilization of the 2022 Authorization for all share repurchases
commenced on August 1, 2022, leaving $70 million unutilized under the 2018 Authorization. In 2022, we repurchased $4.23
billion of Caterpillar common stock, with $12.8 billion remaining under the 2022 Authorization as of December 31, 2022.
Caterpillar's basic shares outstanding as of December 31, 2022 were approximately 516 million.
Each quarter, our Board of Directors reviews the company's dividend for the applicable quarter. The Board evaluates the
financial condition of the company and considers the economic outlook, corporate cash flow, the company's liquidity needs,
and the health and stability of global credit markets to determine whether to maintain or change the quarterly dividend. In
December 2022, the Board of Directors approved maintaining our quarterly dividend representing $1.20 per share and we
continue to expect our strong financial position to support the dividend. Dividends paid totaled $2.44 billion in 2022.
Financial Products
 
Financial Products operating cash flow was $1.52 billion in 2022, compared with $1.42 billion in 2021. Net cash used for investing
activities was $356 million in 2022, compared with $1.40 billion used in 2021. The change was primarily due to portfolio related
activity partially offset by lower proceeds from disposal of equipment. Net cash used for financing activities was $964 million in
2022, compared with net cash provided of $257 million in 2021. The change was primarily due to lower portfolio funding
requirements.
Off-balance sheet arrangements
We are a party to certain off-balance sheet arrangements, primarily in the form of guarantees. Information related to guarantees
appears in Note 21 – “Guarantees and product warranty” of Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”
RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
For a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements, see Note 1J — “New accounting guidance” of Part II, Item 8 “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data.”
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts. The more significant estimates include: residual values for leased assets,
fair values for goodwill impairment tests, warranty liability, reserves for product liability and insurance losses, postretirement
benefits, post-sale discounts, credit losses and income taxes. We have incorporated many years of data into the determination of
each of these estimates and we have not historically experienced significant adjustments. We review these assumptions at least
annually with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Following are the methods and assumptions used in determining our
estimates and an indication of the risks inherent in each.
 
Residual values for leased assets – We determine the residual value of Cat Financial’s leased equipment based on its estimated
end-of-term market value. We estimate the residual value of leased equipment at the inception of the lease based on a number of
factors, including historical wholesale market sales prices, past remarketing experience and any known significant market/product
trends. We also consider the following critical factors in our residual value estimates: lease term, market size and demand, total
expected hours of usage, machine configuration, application, location, model changes, quantities, third-party residual guarantees
and contractual customer purchase options.
Upon termination of the lease, the equipment is either purchased by the lessee or sold to a third-party, in which case we may record
a gain or a loss for the difference between the estimated residual value and the sale price.
41
Table of Contents
During the term of our leases, we monitor residual values.  For operating leases, we record adjustments to depreciation expense
reflecting changes in residual value estimates prospectively on a straight-line basis. For finance leases, we recognize residual value
adjustments through a reduction of finance revenue over the remaining lease term.
We evaluate the carrying value of equipment on operating leases for potential impairment when we determine a triggering event has
occurred. When a triggering event occurs, we perform a test for recoverability by comparing projected undiscounted future cash
flows to the carrying value of the equipment on operating leases. If the test for recoverability identifies a possible impairment, we
measure the fair value of the equipment on operating leases in accordance with the fair value measurement framework. We
recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying value of the equipment on operating leases exceeds its
estimated fair value.
At December 31, 2022, the aggregate residual value of equipment on operating leases was $1.71 billion. Without consideration of
other factors such as third-party residual guarantees or contractual customer purchase options, a 10 percent non-temporary decrease
in the market value of our equipment subject to operating leases would reduce residual value estimates and result in the recognition
of approximately $80 million of additional annual depreciation expense.
Fair values for goodwill impairment tests – We test goodwill for impairment annually, at the reporting unit level, and whenever
events or circumstances make it more likely than not that an impairment may have occurred, such as a significant adverse change in
the business climate or a decision to sell all or a portion of a reporting unit. We perform our annual goodwill impairment test as of
October 1 and monitor for interim triggering events on an ongoing basis.
We review goodwill for impairment utilizing either a qualitative assessment or a quantitative goodwill impairment test. If we
choose to perform a qualitative assessment and determine the fair value more likely than not exceeds the carrying value, no further
evaluation is necessary. For reporting units where we perform the quantitative goodwill impairment test, we compare the fair value
of each reporting unit, which we primarily determine using an income approach based on the present value of discounted cash
flows, to the respective carrying value, which includes goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value,
we do not consider the goodwill impaired. If the carrying value is higher than the fair value, we recognize the difference as an
impairment loss.
For reporting units where we perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test, the process requires valuation of the respective
reporting unit, which we primarily determine using an income approach based on a discounted five year forecasted cash flow with a
year-five residual value. We compute the residual value using the constant growth method, which values the forecasted cash flows
in perpetuity. The assumptions about future cash flows and growth rates are based on each reporting unit's long-term forecast and
are subject to review and approval by senior management. A reporting unit’s discount rate is a risk-adjusted weighted average cost
of capital, which we believe approximates the rate from a market participant’s perspective. The estimated fair value could be
impacted by changes in market conditions, interest rates, growth rates, tax rates, costs, pricing and capital expenditures. We
categorize the fair value determination as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy due to its use of internal projections and unobservable
measurement inputs.
Our annual impairment tests completed in the fourth quarter of 2022 indicated the fair value of each reporting unit was substantially
above its respective carrying value, including goodwill, with the exception of our Rail reporting unit.
The Rail reporting unit is a part of our Energy & Transportation segment. Rail’s product portfolio includes diesel-electric
locomotives and other rail-related products and services. The annual impairment test completed in the fourth quarter of 2022
indicated that the fair value of Rail was below its carrying value. Accordingly, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of
$925 million, resulting in a full impairment of Rail’s goodwill balance as of October 1, 2022. There was a $36 million tax benefit
associated with this impairment charge. The valuation of the Rail reporting unit was based on estimates of future cash flows, which
assumed a reduced demand forecast, lower margins due to continued inflationary cost pressures, and a discount rate approximately
140 basis points higher than utilized in the prior year valuation. The reduction in the demand forecast in the fourth quarter of 2022
was primarily driven by fourth quarter commercial developments, resulting in a lower outlook for the Company’s locomotive
offerings.
42
Table of Contents
An unfavorable change in our expectations for the financial performance of our reporting units, particularly long-term growth and
profitability, would reduce the fair value of our reporting units. The demand for our equipment and related parts is highly cyclical
and significantly impacted by commodity prices, although the impact may vary by reporting unit. The energy and mining industries
are major users of our products, including the mineral extraction, oil and natural gas industries. Decisions to purchase our products
are dependent upon the performance of those industries, which in turn are dependent in part on commodity prices. Lower
commodity prices or industry specific circumstances that have a negative impact to the valuation assumptions may reduce the fair
value of our reporting units. Should such events occur and it becomes more likely than not that a reporting unit’s fair value has
fallen below its carrying value, we will perform an interim goodwill impairment test(s), in addition to the annual impairment test.
 Future impairment tests may result in a goodwill impairment, depending on the outcome of the quantitative impairment test. We
would report a goodwill impairment as a non-cash charge to earnings.
 
Warranty liability – At the time we recognize a sale, we record estimated future warranty costs.  We determine the warranty
liability by applying historical claim rate experience to the current field population and dealer inventory.  Generally, we base
historical claim rates on actual warranty experience for each product by machine model/engine size by customer or dealer location
(inside or outside North America).  We develop specific rates for each product shipment month and update them monthly based on
actual warranty claim experience.  Warranty costs may differ from those estimated if actual claim rates are higher or lower than our
historical rates.
 
Product liability and insurance loss reserve – We determine these reserves based upon reported claims in process of settlement
and actuarial estimates for losses incurred but not reported. Loss reserves, including incurred but not reported reserves, are based on
estimates and ultimate settlements may vary significantly from such estimates due to increased claims frequency or severity over
historical levels. The amount of these reserves totaled $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
The majority of the balance in both 2022 and 2021 consisted of unearned insurance premiums.
 
Postretirement benefits – We sponsor defined benefit pension plans and/or other postretirement benefit plans (retirement
healthcare and life insurance) to employees in many of our locations throughout the world. There are assumptions used in the
accounting for these defined benefit plans that include discount rate, expected return on plan assets, expected rate of compensation
increase, the future health care trend rate, mortality and other economic and demographic assumptions. The actuarial assumptions
we use may change or differ significantly from actual results, which may result in a material impact to our consolidated financial
statements.
The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions are considered actuarial gains
or losses. We utilize a mark-to-market approach in recognizing actuarial gains or losses immediately through earnings upon the
annual remeasurement in the fourth quarter, or on an interim basis as triggering events warrant remeasurement.
Primary actuarial assumptions were determined as follows:
•We use the assumed discount rate to discount future benefit obligations back to today’s dollars. The U.S. discount rate is
based on a benefit cash flow-matching approach and represents the rate at which our benefit obligations could effectively
be settled as of our measurement date, December 31. The benefit cash flow-matching approach involves analyzing
Caterpillar’s projected cash flows against a high quality bond yield curve, calculated using a wide population of corporate
Aa bonds available on the measurement date. We use a similar approach to determine the assumed discount rate for our
most significant non-U.S. plans. In estimating the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit cost, we
utilize a full yield curve approach in determining a discount rate. This approach applies the specific spot rates along the
yield curve used in the determination of the benefit obligation to the relevant projected cash flows. Discount rates are
sensitive to changes in interest rates. A decrease in the discount rate would increase our obligation and expense.
•The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on our estimate of long-term passive returns for equities and
fixed income securities weighted by the allocation of our plan assets. Based on historical performance, we increase the
passive returns due to our active management of the plan assets. This rate is impacted by changes in general market
conditions, but because it represents a long-term rate, it is not significantly impacted by short-term market swings.
Changes in our allocation of plan assets would also impact this rate. For example, a shift to more fixed income securities
would lower the rate. A decrease in the rate would increase our expense. The expected return on plan assets is based on the
fair value of plan asset allocations as of our measurement date, December 31.
•We use the expected rate of compensation increase to develop benefit obligations using projected pay at retirement. It
represents average long-term salary increases. This rate is influenced by our long-term compensation policies. An increase
in the rate would increase our obligation and expense.
43
Table of Contents
•The assumed health care trend rate represents the rate at which health care costs are assumed to increase and is based on
historical and expected experience. Changes in our projections of future health care costs due to general economic
conditions and those specific to health care (e.g., technology driven cost changes) will impact this trend rate. An increase
in the trend rate would increase our obligation and expense.
•We use the mortality assumption to estimate the life expectancy of plan participants. An increase in the life expectancy of
plan participants will result in an increase in our obligation and expense.
44
Table of Contents
Postretirement Benefit Plan Actuarial Assumptions Sensitivity
 
The effects of a one percentage-point change in certain actuarial assumptions on 2022 pension and OPEB costs and obligations are
as follows:
  2022 Benefit Cost Incr ease (Decr ease)Year-end Benefit Obligation Incr ease
(Decr ease)
(Millions of dollars)One per centage-
point incr easeOne per centage-
point decr easeOne per centage-
point incr easeOne per centage-
point decr ease
U.S. Pension Benefits:     
Assumed discount rate $ 101 $ (131) $ (1,151) $ 1,363  
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets (167) 167 — — 
Non-U.S. Pension Benefits:
Assumed discount rate 17 (24) (311) 380 
Expected rate of compensation increase 5 (4) 28 (22)
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets (41) 41 — — 
Other Postretirement Benefits:     
Assumed discount rate 9 (11) (218) 254 
Expected rate of compensation increase — — 1 (1)
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets (2) 2 — — 
Effective December 31, 2019, all U.S. pension benefits were frozen, and accordingly the expected rate of compensation increase assumption is
no longer applicable.
 
Actuarial Assumptions
 U.S. Pension Benefits Non-U.S. Pension Benefits Other Postretirement Benefits
 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
Weighted-average assumptions
used to determine benefit
obligation, end of year:          
Discount rate 5.4 % 2.8 % 2.4 % 4.3 % 1.8 % 1.4 % 5.4 % 2.7 % 2.3 %
Rate of compensation increase — % — % — % 2.3 % 2.0 % 2.0 % 4.0 % 4.0 % 4.0 %
Weighted-average assumptions
used to determine net periodic
benefit cost:    
Discount rate used to measure
service cost — % — % — % 1.7 % 1.4 % 1.5 % 2.8 % 2.5 % 3.2 %
Discount rate used to measure
interest cost 2.3 % 1.8 % 2.8 % 1.7 % 1.2 % 1.7 % 2.2 % 1.6 % 2.8 %
Expected rate of return on plan
assets 4.0 % 4.2 % 5.1 % 3.1 % 2.9 % 3.3 % 6.9 % 6.5 % 7.0 %
Rate of compensation increase — % — % — % 2.0 % 2.0 % 2.0 % 4.0 % 4.0 % 4.0 %
Health car e cost tr end rates at year -
end:        
Health care trend rate assumed for next year 6.5 % 5.6 % 5.8 %
Rate that the cost trend rate gradually declines to 4.7 % 5.0 % 5.0 %
Year that the cost trend rate reaches ultimate rate 2030 2025 2025
Effective December 31, 2019, all U.S. pension benefits were frozen, and accordingly this assumption is no longer applicable.
See Note 12 - “Postemployment benefit plans” of Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statement and Supplemental Data” for further
information regarding the accounting for postretirement benefits.
 1
1 
1
1
1
1 
45
Table of Contents
Post-sale discount reserve – We provide discounts to dealers through merchandising programs. We have numerous programs that
are designed to promote the sale of our products. The most common dealer programs provide a discount when the dealer sells a
product to a targeted end user. The amount of accrued post-sale discounts was $1.6 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2022
and 2021, respectively.  The reserve represents discounts that we expect to pay on previously sold units and is reviewed at least
quarterly. We adjust the reserve if discounts paid differ from those estimated. Historically, those adjustments have not been
material.
 
Allowance for credit losses - The allowance for credit losses is management’s estimate of expected losses over the life of our
finance receivable portfolio calculated using loss forecast models that take into consideration historical credit loss experience,
current economic conditions and forecasts and scenarios that capture country and industry-specific economic factors. In addition,
we consider qualitative factors not able to be fully captured in our loss forecast models, including borrower-specific and company-
specific factors. These qualitative factors are subjective and require a degree of management judgment.
We measure the allowance for credit losses on a collective (pool) basis when similar risk characteristics exist and on an individual
basis when we determine that similar risk characteristics do not exist. We identify finance receivables for individual evaluation
based on past due status and information available about the customer, such as financial statements, news reports and published
credit ratings, as well as general information regarding industry trends and the economic environment in which our customers
operate. The allowance for credit losses attributable to finance receivables that are individually evaluated is based on the present
value of expected future cash flows discounted at the receivables' effective interest rate, the fair value of the collateral for
collateral-dependent receivables or the observable market price of the receivable.  In determining collateral value, we estimate the
current fair market value of the collateral less selling costs. We also consider credit enhancements such as additional collateral and
contractual third-party guarantees.
While management believes it has exercised prudent judgment and applied reasonable assumptions, there can be no assurance that
in the future, changes in economic conditions or other factors would not cause changes in the financial health of our customers. If
the financial health of our customers deteriorates, the timing and level of payments received could be impacted and therefore, could
result in a change to our estimated losses.
Income taxes – We are subject to the income tax laws of the many jurisdictions in which we operate.  These tax laws are complex,
and the manner in which they apply to our facts is sometimes open to interpretation.  In establishing the provision for income taxes,
we must make judgments about the application of these inherently complex tax laws.  Our income tax positions and analysis are
based on currently enacted tax law.  Future changes in tax law or related interpretations could significantly impact the provision for
income taxes, the amount of taxes payable, and the deferred tax asset and liability balances. Changes in tax law are reflected in the
period of enactment with related interpretations considered in the period received. 
Despite our belief that our tax return positions are consistent with applicable tax laws, we believe that taxing authorities could
challenge certain positions. Settlement of any challenge can result in no change, a complete disallowance, or some partial
adjustment reached through negotiations or litigation. We record tax benefits for uncertain tax positions based upon management’s
evaluation of the information available at the reporting date.  To be recognized in the financial statements, a tax benefit must be at
least more likely than not of being sustained based on technical merits.  The benefit for positions meeting the recognition threshold
is measured as the largest benefit more likely than not of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has
full knowledge of all relevant information.  Significant judgment is required in making these determinations and adjustments to
unrecognized tax benefits may be necessary to reflect actual taxes payable upon settlement.  Adjustments related to positions
impacting the effective tax rate affect the provision for income taxes.  Adjustments related to positions impacting the timing of
deductions impact deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets generally represent tax benefits for tax deductions or credits available in future tax returns.  Certain estimates
and assumptions are required to determine whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the benefit of a deferred tax
asset will not be realized.  In making this assessment, management analyzes the trend of U.S. GAAP earnings and estimates the
impact of future taxable income, reversing temporary differences and available prudent and feasible tax planning strategies.  We
give less weight in this analysis to mark-to-market adjustments to remeasure our pension and OPEB plans as we do not consider
these adjustments indicative of ongoing earnings trends. Should a change in facts or circumstances lead to a change in judgment
about the ultimate realizability of a deferred tax asset, we record or adjust the related valuation allowance in the period that the
change in facts and circumstances occurs, along with a corresponding increase or decrease in the provision for income taxes. 
Additional information related to income taxes is included in Note 6 - “Income taxes” of Part II, Item 8 “Financial statements and
Supplementary Data.”
46
Table of Contents
OTHER MATTERS
 
Information related to legal proceedings appears in Note 22—Environmental and Legal Matters of Part II, Item 8 “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data.”
RETIREMENT BENEFITS
We recognize mark-to-market gains and losses immediately through earnings upon the remeasurement of our pension and OPEB
plans. Mark-to-market gains and losses represent the effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of
changing assumptions. Changes in discount rates and differences between the actual return on plan assets and the expected return
on plan assets generally have the largest impact on mark-to-market gains and losses.
The table below summarizes the amounts of net periodic benefit cost recognized for 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and
includes expected cost for 2023.
(Millions of dollars)2023
Expected 2022 2021 2020
U.S. Pension Benefits $ (33) $ (268) $ (388) $ (309)
Non-U.S. Pension Benefits 1 (10) (19) 18 
Other Postretirement Benefits 188 161 118 147 
Mark-to-market loss (gain) — (606) (833) 383 
Total net periodic benefit cost (benefit) $ 156 $ (723) $ (1,122) $ 239 
 Expected net periodic benefit cost (benefit) does not include an estimate for mark-to-market gains or losses.
•Expected increase in expense in 2023 compared to 2022 - Excluding the impact of mark-to-market gains and losses, our net
periodic benefit cost is expected to increase $273 million in 2023. This expected increase is primarily due to higher interest
cost in 2023 as a result of higher discount rates at year-end 2022 (U.S. pension plans discount rate for 2023 interest cost is 5.2
percent compared to 2.3 percent for 2022) which is partially offset by higher expected return on plan assets in 2023 (U.S.
pension plans expected return on plans assets is 5.8 percent for 2023 compared to 4.0 percent in 2022).
•Increase in expense in 2022 compared to 2021 - Primarily due to lower mark-to-market gains in 2022 compared to 2021 and
higher interest cost in 2022 as a result of higher discount rates at year-end 2021.
•Decrease in expense in 2021 compared to 2020 - Primarily due to mark-to-market gains in 2021 compared to mark-to-market
losses in 2020 and lower interest cost in 2021 as a result of lower discount rates at year-end 2020.
The primary factors that resulted in mark-to-market losses (gains) for 2022, 2021 and 2020 are described below. We include the net
mark-to-market losses (gains) in Other income (expense) in the Results of Operations.
•2022 net mark-to-market gain of $606 million - Primarily due to higher discount rates at the end of 2022 compared to the
end of 2021. This was partially offset by a lower actual return on plan assets compared to the expected return on plan assets
(U.S. pension plans had an actual loss rate of (22.6) percent compared to an expected rate of return of 4.0 percent).
•2021 net mark-to-market gain of $833 million - Primarily due to higher discount rates at the end of 2021 compared to the
end of 2020. This was partially offset by various assumption changes and a lower actual return on plan assets compared to the
expected return on plan assets (U.S. pension plans had an actual rate of return of 3.6 percent compared to an expected rate of
return of 4.2 percent).
•2020 net mark-to-market loss of $383 million - Primarily due to lower discount rates at the end of 2020 compared to the end
of 2019. This was partially offset by a higher actual return on plan assets compared to the expected return on plan assets (U.S.
pension plans had an actual rate of return of 16.7 percent compared to an expected rate of return of 5.1 percent).1
1
47
Table of Contents
SENSITIVITY
 
Foreign Exchange Rate Sensitivity
 
ME&T operations use foreign currency forward and option contracts to manage unmatched foreign currency cash inflow and
outflow. Our objective is to minimize the risk of exchange rate movements that would reduce the U.S. dollar value of our foreign
currency cash flow. Our policy allows for managing anticipated foreign currency cash flow for up to approximately five years.
Based on the anticipated and firmly committed cash inflow and outflow for our ME&T operations for the next 12 months and the
foreign currency derivative instruments in place at year-end, a hypothetical 10 percent weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to all
other currencies would adversely affect our expected 2023 cash flow for our ME&T operations by approximately $98 million. Last
year similar assumptions and calculations yielded a potential $89 million adverse impact on 2022 cash flow.  We determine our net
exposures by calculating the difference in cash inflow and outflow by currency and adding or subtracting outstanding foreign
currency derivative instruments. We multiply these net amounts by 10 percent to determine the sensitivity.
 
In managing foreign currency risk for our Financial Products operations, our objective is to minimize earnings volatility resulting
from conversion and the remeasurement of net foreign currency balance sheet positions and future transactions denominated in
foreign currencies. Since our policy allows the use of foreign currency forward, option and cross currency contracts to offset the
risk of currency mismatch between our assets and liabilities and exchange rate risk associated with future transactions denominated
in foreign currencies, a 10 percent change in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to all other currencies would not have a material
effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flow. Neither our policy nor the effect of a 10 percent
change in the value of the U.S. dollar has changed from that reported at the end of last year.
The effect of the hypothetical change in exchange rates ignores the effect this movement may have on other variables, including
competitive risk. If it were possible to quantify this competitive impact, the results would probably be different from the sensitivity
effects shown above. In addition, it is unlikely that all currencies would uniformly strengthen or weaken relative to the U.S. dollar.
In reality, some currencies may weaken while others may strengthen. Our primary exposure (excluding competitive risk) is to
exchange rate movements in the Australian dollar, Chinese yuan, Mexican peso, Indian rupee and Euro.
 
Interest Rate Sensitivity
 
For our ME&T operations, we have the option to use interest rate contracts to lower the cost of borrowed funds by attaching fixed-
to-floating interest rate contracts to fixed-rate debt, and by entering into forward rate agreements on future debt issuances.  A
hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move in interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would have a minimal impact to
the 2023 pre-tax earnings of ME&T. Last year, similar assumptions and calculations yielded a minimal impact to 2022 pre-tax
earnings.
 
For our Financial Products operations, we use interest rate derivative instruments primarily to meet our match-funding objectives
and strategies. We have a match-funding policy that addresses the interest rate risk by aligning the interest rate profile (fixed or
floating rate and duration) of our debt portfolio with the interest rate profile of our finance receivable portfolio within a
predetermined range on an ongoing basis. In connection with that policy, we use interest rate derivative instruments to modify the
debt structure to match assets within the finance receivable portfolio. Match funding reduces the volatility of margins between
interest-bearing assets and interest-bearing liabilities, regardless of which direction interest rates move.
 
In order to properly manage sensitivity to changes in interest rates, Financial Products measures the potential impact of different
interest rate assumptions on pre-tax earnings. All on-balance sheet positions, including derivative financial instruments, are
included in the analysis. The primary assumptions included in the analysis are that there are no new fixed rate assets or liabilities,
the proportion of fixed rate debt to fixed rate assets remains unchanged and the level of floating rate assets and debt remain
constant. An analysis of the December 31, 2022 balance sheet, using these assumptions, estimates the impact of a 100 basis point
immediate and sustained adverse change in interest rates to have a minimal impact on 2023 pre-tax earnings.  Last year, similar
assumptions and calculations yielded a minimal impact to 2022 pre-tax earnings.
 
This analysis does not necessarily represent our current outlook of future market interest rate movement, nor does it consider any
actions management could undertake in response to changes in interest rates. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that actual
results would be consistent with the results of our estimate.
48
Table of Contents
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
We provide the following definitions for the non-GAAP financial measures used in this report.  These non-GAAP financial
measures have no standardized meaning prescribed by U.S. GAAP and therefore are unlikely to be comparable to the calculation of
similar measures for other companies.  Management does not intend these items to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for
the related GAAP measures.
We believe it is important to separately quantify the profit impact of three significant items in order for our results to be meaningful
to our readers. These items consist of (i) goodwill impairment, (ii) restructuring costs and (iii) pension and OPEB mark-to-market
(gains) losses resulting from plan remeasurements. We do not consider these items indicative of earnings from ongoing business
activities and believe the non-GAAP measures will provide investors with useful perspective on underlying business results and
trends and aid with assessing our period-over-period results. In addition, we provide a calculation of ME&T free cash flow as we
believe it is an important measure for investors to determine the cash generation available for financing activities including debt
repayments, dividends and share repurchases.
Reconciliations of adjusted results to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are as follows:
(Dollars in millions except per share data)Operating
ProfitOperating Pr ofit
MarginProfit Befor e
TaxesProvision
(Benefit) for
Income Taxes Effective Tax Rate Profit Profit per  Shar e
Twelve Months Ended December  31, 2022 - U.S. GAAP $ 7,904  13.3 % $ 8,752  $ 2,067  23.6 % $ 6,705  $ 12.64  
Goodwill impairment 925 1.6 % 925 36 3.9 % 889 1.68 
Restructuring costs 299 0.5 % 299 72 24.0 % 227 0.43 
Pension/OPEB mark-to-market (gains) losses $ — — % (606) (124) 20.5 % (482) (0.91)
Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2022 - Adjusted $ 9,128 15.4 % $ 9,370 $ 2,051 21.9 % $ 7,339 $ 13.84 
Twelve Months Ended December  31, 2021 - U.S. GAAP $ 6,878  13.5 % $ 8,204  $ 1,742  21.2 % $ 6,489  $ 11.83 
Restructuring costs 90 0.2 % 90 4 4.4 % 86 $ 0.15 
Pension/OPEB mark-to-market (gains) losses — — % (833) (190) 22.8 % (643) $ (1.17)
Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2021 - Adjusted $ 6,968 13.7 % $ 7,461 $ 1,556 20.9 % $ 5,932 $ 10.81 
Reconciliations of ME&T free cash flow to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, net cash provided by operating activities
are as follows:
Millions of dollarsTwelve Months Ended
December  31,
2022 2021
ME&T  net cash provided by operating activities $ 6,358  $ 7,177 
ME&T  discretionary pension contributions — — 
ME&T  capital expenditures (1,298) (1,129)
Cash payments related to settlements with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service 717 — 
ME&T  free cash flow $ 5,777  $ 6,048 
See reconciliation of ME&T net cash provided by operating activities to consolidated net cash provided by operating activities on page 53.1
1 
49
Table of Contents
Supplemental Consolidating Data
 
We are providing supplemental consolidating data for the purpose of additional analysis.  We have grouped the data as follows:
 
Consolidated – Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries.
 
Machinery, Energy & Transportation – We define ME&T as it is presented in the supplemental data as Caterpillar Inc. and its
subsidiaries, excluding Financial Products. ME&T's information relates to the design, manufacturing and marketing of our
products.
 
Financial Products – We define Financial Products as it is presented in the supplemental data as our finance and insurance
subsidiaries, primarily Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation (Cat Financial) and Cat Insurance Holdings Inc. (Insurance
Services). Financial Products’ information relates to the financing to customers and dealers for the purchase and lease of Caterpillar
and other equipment.
 
Consolidating Adjustments – Eliminations of transactions between ME&T and Financial Products.
The nature of the ME&T and Financial Products businesses is different, especially with regard to the financial position and cash
flow items. Caterpillar management utilizes this presentation internally to highlight these differences. We believe this presentation
will assist readers in understanding our business.
Pages 51 to 53 reconcile ME&T and Financial Products to Caterpillar Inc. consolidated financial information. Certain amounts for
prior periods have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
50
Table of Contents
Supplemental Data for  Results of Operations
For The Years Ended December  31
  Supplemental consolidating data  
 ConsolidatedMachinery,
Energy & TransportationFinancial
ProductsConsolidating
Adjustments  
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021
 2020 
Sales and revenues:
               
Sales of Machinery, Energy & Transportation $56,574 $48,188 $39,022 $56,574 $48,188 $39,022 $— $ — $— $—  $— $—  
Revenues of Financial Products 2,853 2,783 2,726 — — — 3,376 3,172 3,110 (523)1 (389)1(384)1
Total sales and revenues 59,427 50,971 41,748 56,574 48,188 39,022 3,376 3,172 3,110 (523) (389) (384)
Operating costs:
           
  
  
Cost of goods sold 41,350 35,513 29,082 41,356 35,521 29,088 — — — (6)2 (8)2 (6)2
Selling, general and administrative expenses 5,651 5,365 4,642 4,999 4,724 3,915 672 654 746 (20)2 (13)2 (19)2
Research and development expenses 1,814 1,686 1,415 1,814 1,686 1,415 — — — —  — —  
Interest expense of Financial Products 565 455 589 — — — 565 455 591 — — (2)3
Goodwill impairment charge 925 — — 925 — — — — — — — — 
Other operating (income) expenses 1,218 1,074 1,467 47 (106) 283 1,249 1,247 1,236 (78)2 (67)2 (52)2
Total operating costs 51,523 44,093 37,195 49,141 41,825 34,701 2,486 2,356 2,573 (104) (88) (79)
Operating profit 7,904 6,878 4,553 7,433 6,363 4,321 890 816 537 (419) (301) (305)
Interest expense excluding Financial Products 443 488 514 444 488 513 — — — (1)3 — 1 3
Other income (expense) 1,291 1,814 (44) 1,374 2,276 (62) (26) 87 32 (57)4 (549)4 (14)4
Consolidated profit before taxes 8,752 8,204 3,995 8,363 8,151 3,746 864 903 569 (475) (850) (320) 
Provision (benefit) for income taxes 2,067 1,742 1,006 1,858 1,517 853 209 225 153 —  —  —  
Profit of consolidated companies 6,685 6,462 2,989 6,505 6,634 2,893 655 678 416 (475) (850) (320) 
Equity in profit (loss) of unconsolidated
affiliated companies 19 31 14 26 42 29 — — — (7)5(11)5(15)5
Profit of consolidated and affiliated
companies 6,704 6,493 3,003 6,531 6,676 2,922 655 678 416 (482) (861) (335)
Less: Profit (loss) attributable to noncontrolling
interests (1) 4 5 (1) 3 5 7 12 15 (7)6
(11)6
(15)6
Profit $6,705 $6,489 $2,998 $6,532 $6,673 $2,917 $648 $666 $401 $(475)$(850)$(320)
 
Elimination of Financial Products' revenues earned from ME&T.
Elimination of net expenses recorded by ME&T paid to Financial Products.
Elimination of interest expense recorded between Financial Products and ME&T.
Elimination of discount recorded by ME&T on receivables sold to Financial Products and of interest earned between ME&T and Financial Products as well as dividends paid by
Financial Products to ME&T.
Elimination of equity profit (loss) earned from Financial Products’ subsidiaries partially owned by ME&T subsidiaries.
Elimination of noncontrolling interest profit (loss) recorded by Financial Products for subsidiaries partially owned by ME&T subsidiaries.
Profit attributable to common shareholders.7 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
51
Table of Contents
Supplemental Data for  Financial Position
At December  31 Supplemental consolidating data
 ConsolidatedMachinery,
Energy &
TransportationFinancial
ProductsConsolidating
Adjustments
 
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022  2021
 
Assets
        
  
Current assets:
          
Cash and cash equivalents $ 7,004 $ 9,254 $ 6,042 $ 8,428 $ 962 $ 826 $ —  $ — 
 
Receivables - trade and other 8,856 8,477 3,710 3,279 519 435 4,627 1,2 4,763 1,2
Receivables - finance 9,013 8,898 — — 13,902 13,828 (4,889)2 (4,930)2
Prepaid expenses and other current assets 2,642 2,788 2,488 2,567 290 358 (136)3 (137)3
Inventories 16,270 14,038 16,270 14,038 — — — — 
Total current assets 43,785 43,455 28,510 28,312 15,673 15,447 (398) (304)
Property, plant and equipment - net 12,028 12,090 8,186 8,172 3,842 3,918 — — 
Long-term receivables - trade and other 1,265 1,204 418 375 339 204 508 1,2 625 1,2
Long-term receivables - finance 12,013 12,707 — — 12,552 13,358 (539)2 (651)2
Noncurrent deferred and refundable income taxes 2,213 1,840 2,755 2,396 115 105 (657)4 (661)4
Intangible assets 758 1,042 758 1,042 — — —  — 
Goodwill 5,288 6,324 5,288 6,324 — — —  —  
Other assets 4,593 4,131 3,882 3,388 1,892 1,952 (1,181)5 (1,209)5
Total assets $81,943 $82,793 $49,797 $50,009 $34,413 $34,984 $(2,267) $(2,200)
Liabilities
        
  
Current liabilities:
          
Short-term borrowings $ 5,957 $ 5,404 $ 3 $ 9 $ 5,954 $ 5,395 $ — $ — 
Accounts payable 8,689 8,154 8,657 8,079 294 242 (262)6 (167)6
Accrued expenses 4,080 3,757 3,687 3,385 393 372 — — 
Accrued wages, salaries and employee benefits 2,313 2,242 2,264 2,186 49 56 — — 
Customer advances 1,860 1,087 1,860 1,086 — 1 — — 
Dividends payable 620 595 620 595 — — — — 
Other current liabilities 2,690 2,256 2,215 1,773 635 642 (160)4,7 (159)4,7
Long-term debt due within one year 5,322 6,352 120 45 5,202 6,307 — — 
Total current liabilities 31,531 29,847 19,426 17,158 12,527 13,015 (422) (326)
Long-term debt due after one year 25,714 26,033 9,529 9,772 16,216 16,287 (31)8 (26)8
Liability for postemployment benefits 4,203 5,592 4,203 5,592 — — — — 
Other liabilities 4,604 4,805 3,677 4,106 1,638 1,425 (711)4 (726)4
Total liabilities 66,052 66,277 36,835 36,628 30,381 30,727 (1,164) (1,078)
Commitments and contingencies
          
Shareholders’ equity
        
  
Common stock 6,560 6,398 6,560 6,398 905 919 (905)9 (919)9
Treasury stock (31,748) (27,643) (31,748) (27,643) — — — — 
Profit employed in the business 43,514 39,282 39,435 35,390 4,068 3,881 11 9 11 9
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (2,457) (1,553) (1,310) (799) (1,147) (754) — — 
Noncontrolling interests 22 32 25 35 206 211 (209)9 (214)9
Total shareholders’ equity 15,891 16,516 12,962 13,381 4,032 4,257 (1,103) (1,122)
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $81,943 $82,793 $49,797 $50,009 $34,413 $34,984 $(2,267) $(2,200)
Elimination of receivables between ME&T and Financial Products.
Reclassification of ME&T’s trade receivables purchased by Financial Products and Financial Products’ wholesale inventory receivables.
Elimination of ME&T's insurance premiums that are prepaid to Financial Products.
Reclassification reflecting required netting of deferred tax assets/liabilities by taxing jurisdiction.
Elimination of other intercompany assets between ME&T and Financial Products.
Elimination of payables between ME&T and Financial Products.
Elimination of prepaid insurance in Financial Products’ other liabilities.
Elimination of debt between ME&T and Financial Products.
Eliminations associated with ME&T’s investments in Financial Products’ subsidiaries.  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
52
Table of Contents
Supplemental Data for  Statement of Cash Flow
For the Years Ended December  31 Supplemental consolidating data
 
 ConsolidatedMachinery,
Energy &
TransportationFinancial
ProductsConsolidating
Adjustments
 
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022
 2021
 
Cash flow from operating activities:
          
Profit (loss) of consolidated and affiliated companies $ 6,704 $6,493 $6,531 $6,676 $ 655 $ 678 $(482) $(861)
Adjustments for non-cash items:
  
Depreciation and amortization 2,219 2,352 1,439 1,550 780 802 — — 
Actuarial (gain) loss on pension and postretirement benefits (606) (833) (606) (833) — — — — 
Provision (benefit) for deferred income taxes (377) (383) (368) (329) (9) (54) — — 
Goodwill impairment charge 925 — 925 — — — — — 
Other 701 216 452 131 (205) (209) 454 294 
Changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures:
Receivables - trade and other (220) (1,259) (390) (463) 143 47 27 (843)
Inventories (2,589) (2,586) (2,572) (2,581) — — (17) (5)
Accounts payable 798 2,041 811 2,015 82 49 (95) (23)
Accrued expenses 317 196 274 288 43 (92) — — 
Accrued wages, salaries and employee benefits 90 1,107 97 1,066 (7) 41 — — 
Customer advances 768 34 769 33 (1) 1 — — 
Other assets—net (210) (97) (183) (200) (35) 25 8 78 
Other liabilities—net (754) (83) (821) (176) 71 132 (4) (39)
Net cash provided by (used for) operating activities 7,766 7,198 6,358 7,177 1,517 1,420 (109) (1,399)
Cash flow from investing activities:
     
Capital expenditures—excluding equipment leased to others (1,296) (1,093) (1,279) (1,088) (20) (16) 3 11 
Expenditures for equipment leased to others (1,303) (1,379) (19) (41) (1,310) (1,347) 26 9 
Proceeds from disposals of leased assets and property, plant and
equipment 830 1,265 78 186 764 1,095 (12) (16)
Additions to finance receivables (13,239) (13,002) — — (14,223) (13,845) 984 843 
Collections of finance receivables 13,177 12,430 — — 14,052 13,337 (875) (907)
Net intercompany purchased receivables — — — — 492 (609) (492) 609 
Proceeds from sale of finance receivables 57 51 — — 57 51 — — 
Net intercompany borrowings — — — 1,000 9 5 (9) (1,005)
Investments and acquisitions (net of cash acquired) (88) (490) (88) (490) — — — — 
Proceeds from sale of businesses and investments (net of cash sold) 1 36 1 36 — — — — 
Proceeds from sale of securities 2,383 785 1,948 274 435 511 — — 
Investments in securities (3,077) (1,766) (2,549) (1,189) (528) (577) — — 
Other—net 14 79 98 81 (84) (2) — — 
Net cash provided by (used for) investing activities (2,541) (3,084) (1,810) (1,231) (356) (1,397) (375) (456)
Cash flow from financing activities:
     
Dividends paid (2,440) (2,332) (2,440) (2,332) (475) (850) 475 850 
Common stock issued, including treasury shares reissued 51 135 51 135 — — — — 
Common shares repurchased (4,230) (2,668) (4,230) (2,668) — — — — 
Net intercompany borrowings — — (9) (5) — (1,000) 9 1,005 
Proceeds from debt issued (original maturities greater than three months) 6,674 6,989 — 494 6,674 6,495 — — 
Payments on debt (original maturities greater than three months) (7,728) (9,796) (25) (1,919) (7,703) (7,877) — — 
Short-term borrowings - net (original maturities three months or less) 402 3,488 (138) (1) 540 3,489 — — 
Other—net (10) (4) (10) (4) — — — — 
Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities (7,281) (4,188) (6,801) (6,300) (964) 257 484 1,855 
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (194) (29) (131) (35) (63) 6 — — 
Increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (2,250) (103) (2,384) (389) 134 286 — — 
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of period 9,263 9,366 8,433 8,822 830 544 — — 
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of period $ 7,013 $9,263 $6,049 $8,433 $ 964 $ 830 $ — $ — 
Elimination of equity profit earned from Financial Products’ subsidiaries partially owned by ME&T subsidiaries.
Elimination of non-cash adjustments and changes in assets and liabilities related to consolidated reporting.
Reclassification of Financial Products’ cash flow activity from investing to operating for receivables that arose from the sale of inventory.
Elimination of net proceeds and payments to/from ME&T and Financial Products.
Elimination of dividend activity between Financial Products and ME&T.1,5 1,5
  
  
2 2
  
2,3 2,3
2 2
2 2
  
2 2
2 2
 
2 2
2 2
2 2
3 3
3 3
3 3
4 4
  
  
  
  
5 5
4 4
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
1
2
3
4
5
53
Table of Contents
Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
 
Information required by Item 7A appears in Note 1 — “Operations and summary of significant accounting policies,” Note 4 —  
“Derivative financial instruments and risk management,” Note 18 — “Fair value disclosures” and Note 19 — “Concentration of
credit risk” of Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  Other information required by Item 7A is included
in Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
54
Table of Contents
Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON
INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
 
The management of Caterpillar Inc. (company) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act.  Our internal control over financial reporting
is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because
of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
Management assessed the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022. In
making this assessment, we used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO) in Internal Control—Integrated Framework (2013). Based on our assessment we concluded that, as of December 31, 2022,
the company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective based on those criteria.
 
The effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022 has been audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm. Their report appears on pages 56-57.
 
 
 /s/ D. James Umpleby III 
 
D. James Umpleby III 
 Chief Executive Officer 
  
  
   
 /s/ Andrew R.J. Bonfield 
 
Andrew R.J. Bonfield 
 Chief Financial Officer 
  
   
   
 February 15, 2023 
55
Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Caterpillar Inc.
Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited the accompanying consolidated statement of financial position of Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries (the
“Company”) as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the related consolidated statements of results of operations, of comprehensive
income (loss), of changes in shareholders' equity and of cash flow for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2022, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). We also have audited the
Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control -
Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position
of the Company as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2022 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO.
Basis for Opinions
The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control
over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on the
Company’s consolidated financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.
We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and
are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable
rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement,
whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of
the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such
procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial
statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Our audit of internal control over financial
reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of
the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that
could have a material effect on the financial statements.
56
Table of Contents
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because
of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial
statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relates to accounts or
disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (ii) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or
complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated
financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate
opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.
Caterpillar SARL (“CSARL”) Internal Revenue Services (“IRS”) Settlement
As described in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements, on September 8, 2022, management reached a settlement with the
IRS that resolved all issues for tax years 2007 through 2016, without any penalties. The Company's settlement includes, among
other issues, the resolution of disputed tax treatment of profits earned by CSARL from certain parts transactions. The IRS
previously proposed increases to tax and imposition of accuracy related penalties based on application of the “substance-over-
form” or “assignment-of-income” judicial doctrines, but the settlement did not include any increases to tax in the United States
based on the judicial doctrines and does not include any penalties. The final tax assessed by the IRS for all issues under the
settlement was $490 million for the ten-year period. This amount was primarily paid in 2022 along with associated interest of $250
million. As a result of the settlement, the Company recorded a discrete tax benefit of $41 million within the provision (benefit) for
income taxes of $2,067 million for the year ended December 31, 2022.
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the CSARL IRS settlement is a critical
audit matter are (i) the significant judgment by management in evaluating the impact of the settlement on income taxes; (ii) a high
degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity and effort in performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence relating to the
settlement; and (iii) the audit effort involved the use of professionals with specialized skill and knowledge.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall
opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls relating to income
taxes. These procedures also included, among others (i) reading the settlement documents; (ii) evaluating management’s process for
determining the impact of the settlement to tax years 2007-2016; and (iii) evaluating management’s assessment of other impacts of
the settlement, including the amount of interest owed to the IRS. Professionals with specialized skill and knowledge were used to
assist in evaluating the applicable tax laws and judicial doctrines related to the settlement, as well as changes in relevant tax
regulations, rulings, and case law.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chicago, Illinois
February 15, 2023
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1925.
57
Table of Contents
STATEMENT 1 Caterpillar Inc.
Consolidated Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31
(Dollars in millions except per share data)
 2022 2021 2020
Sales and revenues:    
Sales of Machinery, Energy & Transportation $ 56,574 $ 48,188 $ 39,022 
Revenues of Financial Products 2,853 2,783 2,726 
Total sales and revenues 59,427 50,971 41,748 
Operating costs:    
Cost of goods sold 41,350 35,513 29,082 
Selling, general and administrative expenses 5,651 5,365 4,642 
Research and development expenses 1,814 1,686 1,415 
Interest expense of Financial Products 565 455 589 
Goodwill impairment charge 925 — — 
Other operating (income) expenses 1,218 1,074 1,467 
Total operating costs 51,523 44,093 37,195 
Operating profit 7,904 6,878 4,553 
Interest expense excluding Financial Products 443 488 514 
Other income (expense) 1,291 1,814 (44)
Consolidated profit before taxes 8,752 8,204 3,995 
Provision (benefit) for income taxes 2,067 1,742 1,006 
Profit of consolidated companies 6,685 6,462 2,989 
Equity in profit (loss) of unconsolidated affiliated companies 19 31 14 
Profit of consolidated and affiliated companies 6,704 6,493 3,003 
Less: Profit (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (1) 4 5 
Profit $ 6,705 $ 6,489 $ 2,998 
Profit per common share $ 12.72 $ 11.93 $ 5.51 
Profit per common share — diluted $ 12.64 $ 11.83 $ 5.46 
Weighted-average common shares outstanding (millions)    
- Basic 526.9 544.0 544.1 
- Diluted 530.4 548.5 548.6 
 
Profit attributable to common shareholders.
Diluted by assumed exercise of stock-based compensation awards using the treasury stock method.
See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.1 
2
2
1    
2    
58
Table of Contents
STATEMENT 2  Caterpillar Inc.
Consolidated Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the Years Ended December 31
(Millions of dollars)
 2022 2021 2020
Profit (loss) of consolidated and affiliated companies $6,704 $6,493 $3,003 
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax (Note 17):
Foreign currency translation: (820) (598) 577 
Pension and other postretirement benefits: 23 (30) (29)
Derivative financial instruments: 31 (3) 97 
Available-for-sale securities: (138) (34) 34 
Total other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax (904) (665) 679 
Comprehensive income (loss) 5,800 5,828 3,682 
Less: comprehensive income attributable to the noncontrolling interests (1) 4 5 
Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to shareholders $5,801 $5,824 $3,677 
See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
59
Table of Contents
STATEMENT 3 Caterpillar Inc.
Consolidated Financial Position at December 31
(Dollars in millions)
 2022 2021
Assets   
Current assets:   
Cash and cash equivalents $ 7,004 $ 9,254 
Receivables – trade and other 8,856 8,477 
Receivables – finance 9,013 8,898 
Prepaid expenses and other current assets 2,642 2,788 
Inventories 16,270 14,038 
Total current assets 43,785 43,455 
Property, plant and equipment – net 12,028 12,090 
Long-term receivables – trade and other 1,265 1,204 
Long-term receivables – finance 12,013 12,707 
Noncurrent deferred and refundable income taxes 2,213 1,840 
Intangible assets 758 1,042 
Goodwill 5,288 6,324 
Other assets 4,593 4,131 
Total assets $ 81,943 $ 82,793 
Liabilities   
Current liabilities:   
Short-term borrowings:   
Machinery, Energy & Transportation $ 3 $ 9 
Financial Products 5,954 5,395 
Accounts payable 8,689 8,154 
Accrued expenses 4,080 3,757 
Accrued wages, salaries and employee benefits 2,313 2,242 
Customer advances 1,860 1,087 
Dividends payable 620 595 
Other current liabilities 2,690 2,256 
Long-term debt due within one year:   
Machinery, Energy & Transportation 120 45 
Financial Products 5,202 6,307 
Total current liabilities 31,531 29,847 
Long-term debt due after one year:   
Machinery, Energy & Transportation 9,498 9,746 
Financial Products 16,216 16,287 
Liability for postemployment benefits 4,203 5,592 
Other liabilities 4,604 4,805 
Total liabilities 66,052 66,277 
Commitments and contingencies (Notes 21 and 22)
Shareholders’ equity   
Common stock of $1.00 par value:   
Authorized shares: 2,000,000,000
Issued shares: (2022 and 2021 – 814,894,624 shares) at paid-in amount 6,560 6,398 
Treasury stock: (2022 - 298,549,134 shares; and 2021 - 279,006,573 shares) at cost (31,748) (27,643)
Profit employed in the business 43,514 39,282 
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (2,457) (1,553)
Noncontrolling interests 22 32 
Total shareholders’ equity 15,891 16,516 
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $ 81,943 $ 82,793 
See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
60
Table of Contents
STATEMENT 4  Caterpillar Inc.
Changes in Consolidated Shareholders’ Equity for the Years Ended December 31
(Dollars in millions) 
 Common
stockTreasury
stockProfit
employed
in the
businessAccumulated
other
comprehensive
income (loss)Noncontrolling
interests Total
Balance at December 31, 2019 $ 5,935 $(24,217)$34,437 $ (1,567)$ 41 $14,629 
Adjustments to adopt new accounting guidance
Credit losses — — (25) — — (25)
Balance at January 1, 2020 $ 5,935 $(24,217)$34,412 $ (1,567)$ 41 $14,604 
Profit (loss) of consolidated and affiliated companies — — 2,998 — 5 3,003 
Foreign currency translation, net of tax — — — 577 — 577 
Pension and other postretirement benefits, net of tax — — — (29) — (29)
Derivative financial instruments, net of tax — — — 97 — 97 
Available-for-sale securities, net of tax — — — 34 — 34 
Dividends declared — — (2,247) — — (2,247)
Distribution to noncontrolling interests — — — — — — 
Common shares issued from treasury stock for stock-based
compensation: 5,317,243 (61) 290 — — — 229 
Stock-based compensation expense 202 — — — — 202 
Common shares repurchased: 10,096,006 — (1,250) — — — (1,250)
Other 154 (1) 4 — 1 158 
Balance at December 31, 2020 $ 6,230 $(25,178)$35,167 $ (888)$ 47 $15,378 
Profit (loss) of consolidated and affiliated companies — — 6,489 — 4 6,493 
Foreign currency translation, net of tax — — — (598) — (598)
Pension and other postretirement benefits, net of tax — — — (30) — (30)
Derivative financial instruments, net of tax — — — (3) — (3)
Available-for-sale securities, net of tax — — — (34) — (34)
Change in ownership from noncontrolling interests — — — — (14) (14)
Dividends declared — — (2,374) — — (2,374)
Distribution to noncontrolling interests — — — — (4) (4)
Common shares issued from treasury stock for stock-based
compensation: 3,571,503 (68) 203 — — — 135 
Stock-based compensation expense 200 — — — — 200 
Common shares repurchased: 12,987,299 — (2,668) — — — (2,668)
Other 36 — — — (1) 35 
Balance at December 31, 2021 $ 6,398 $(27,643)$39,282 $ (1,553)$ 32 $16,516 
(Continued)
61
Table of Contents
STATEMENT 4  Caterpillar Inc.
Changes in Consolidated Shareholders’ Equity for the Years Ended December 31
(Dollars in millions)
 Common
stockTreasury
stockProfit
employed
in the
businessAccumulated
other
comprehensive
income (loss)Noncontrolling
interests Total
Balance at December 31, 2021 $ 6,398 $(27,643)$39,282 $ (1,553)$ 32 $16,516 
Profit (loss) of consolidated and affiliated companies — — 6,705 — (1) 6,704 
Foreign currency translation, net of tax — — — (820) — (820)
Pension and other postretirement benefits, net of tax — — — 23 — 23 
Derivative financial instruments, net of tax — — — 31 — 31 
Available-for-sale securities, net of tax — — — (138) — (138)
Change in ownership from noncontrolling interests — — — — — — 
Dividends declared — — (2,473) — — (2,473)
Distribution to noncontrolling interests — — — — (10) (10)
Common shares issued from treasury stock for stock-based
compensation: 2,340,887 (74) 125 — — — 51 
Stock-based compensation expense 193 — — — — 193 
Common shares repurchased: 21,882,818 — (4,230) — — — (4,230)
Other 43 — — — 1 44 
Balance at December 31, 2022 $ 6,560 $(31,748)$43,514 $ (2,457)$ 22 $15,891 
Dividends per share of common stock of $4.71, $4.36 and $4.12 were declared in the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
See Note 16 regarding shares repurchased.
See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 1
2
1
2
62
Table of Contents
STATEMENT 5  Caterpillar Inc.
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow for the Years Ended December 31
(Millions of dollars)
 2022 2021 2020
Cash flow fr om operating activities:    
Profit (loss) of consolidated and af filiated companies $ 6,704  $ 6,493  $ 3,003  
Adjustments for non-cash items:    
Depreciation and amortization 2,219  2,352  2,432  
Actuarial (gain) loss on pension and postretirement benefits (606) (833) 383 
Provision (benefit) for deferred income taxes (377) (383) (74)
Goodwill impairment char ge 925 — — 
Other 701 216 1,000  
Changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures:    
Receivables  – trade and other (220) (1,259 ) 1,442  
Inventories (2,589 ) (2,586 ) (34)
Accounts payable 798 2,041  98 
Accrued expenses 317 196 (366)
Accrued wages, salaries and employee benefits 90 1,107  (544)
Customer advances 768 34 (126)
Other assets  – net (210) (97) (201)
Other liabilities  – net (754) (83) (686)
Net cash provided by (used for) operating activities 7,766  7,198  6,327  
Cash flow fr om investing activities:    
Capital expenditures  – excluding equipment leased to others (1,296 ) (1,093 ) (978)
Expenditures for equipment leased to others (1,303 ) (1,379 ) (1,137 )
Proceeds from disposals of leased assets and property , plant and equipment 830 1,265  772 
Additions to finance receivables (13,239 ) (13,002 ) (12,385 )
Collections of finance receivables 13,177  12,430  12,646  
Proceeds from sale of finance receivables 57 51 42 
Investments and acquisitions (net of cash acquired) (88) (490) (111)
Proceeds from sale of businesses and investments (net of cash sold) 1 36 25 
Proceeds from sale of securities 2,383  785 345 
Investments in securities (3,077 ) (1,766 ) (638)
Other  – net 14 79 (66)
Net cash provided by (used for) investing activities (2,541 ) (3,084 ) (1,485 )
Cash flow fr om financing activities:    
Dividends paid (2,440 ) (2,332 ) (2,243 )
Common stock issued, including treasury shares reissued 51 135 229 
Common shares repurchased (4,230 ) (2,668 ) (1,130 )
Proceeds from debt issued (original maturities greater than three months):    
- Machinery , Ener gy & Transportation — 494 1,991  
- Financial Products 6,674  6,495  8,440  
Payments on debt (original maturities greater than three months):    
- Machinery , Ener gy & Transportation (25) (1,919 ) (26)
- Financial Products (7,703 ) (7,877 ) (8,211)
Short-term borrowings  – net (original maturities three months or less) 402 3,488  (2,804 )
Other  – net (10) (4) (1)
Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities (7,281 ) (4,188 ) (3,755 )
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (194) (29) (13)
Increase (decr ease) in cash, cash equivalents and r estricted cash (2,250 ) (103) 1,074  
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of period 9,263  9,366  8,292  
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of period $ 7,013  $ 9,263  $ 9,366  
Cash equivalents primarily represent short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of generally three months or less.
See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
63
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
1.Operations and summary of significant accounting policies
 
A. Nature of operations
Information in our financial statements and related commentary are presented in the following categories:
 
Machinery, Energy & Transportation (ME&T) – We define ME&T as Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries, excluding
Financial Products. ME&T's information relates to the design, manufacturing and marketing of our products.
 
Financial Products – We define Financial Products as our finance and insurance subsidiaries, primarily Caterpillar
Financial Services Corporation (Cat Financial) and Caterpillar Insurance Holdings Inc. (Insurance Services). Financial
Products’ information relates to the financing to customers and dealers for the purchase and lease of Caterpillar and other
equipment.
 
We sell our products primarily under the brands “Caterpillar,” “CAT,” design versions of “CAT” and “Caterpillar,” “EMD,”
“FG Wilson,” “MaK,” “MWM,” “Perkins,” “Progress Rail,” “SEM” and “Solar Turbines.”
 
We conduct operations in our ME&T line of business under highly competitive conditions, including intense price competition.
We place great emphasis on the high quality and performance of our products and our dealers’ service support. Although no
one competitor is believed to produce all of the same types of equipment that we do, there are numerous companies, large and
small, which compete with us in the sale of each of our products.
 
We distribute our machines principally through a worldwide organization of dealers (dealer network), 43 located in the United
States and 113 located outside the United States, serving 192 countries.  We sell reciprocating engines principally through the
dealer network and to other manufacturers for use in products. We also sell some of the reciprocating engines manufactured by
our subsidiary Perkins Engines Company Limited through its worldwide network of 88 distributors covering 185 countries. We
sell the FG Wilson branded electric power generation systems through its worldwide network of 110 distributors covering 109
countries.  We also sell some of the large, medium speed reciprocating engines under the MaK brand through a worldwide
network of 20 distributors covering 130 countries.  Our dealers do not deal exclusively with our products; however, in most
cases sales and servicing of our products are the dealers’ principal business. We sell some products, primarily turbines and
locomotives, to end customers through sales forces employed by the company. At times, these employees are assisted by
independent sales representatives.
 
The Financial Products line of business also conducts operations under highly competitive conditions. Financing for users of
Caterpillar products is available through a variety of competitive sources, principally commercial banks and finance and
leasing companies. We offer various financing, insurance and risk management products designed to support sales of our
products and generate financing income for our company. We conduct a significant portion of Financial Products activity in
North America, with additional offices in Latin America, Asia/Pacific, Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
 B. Basis of presentation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries where we have a controlling
financial interest.
Investments in companies where our ownership exceeds 20 percent and we do not have a controlling interest or where the
ownership is less than 20 percent and for which we have a significant influence are accounted for by the equity method.  
We consolidate all variable interest entities (VIEs) where Caterpillar Inc. is the primary beneficiary.  For VIEs, we assess
whether we are the primary beneficiary as prescribed by the accounting guidance on the consolidation of VIEs.  The primary
beneficiary of a VIE is the party that has both the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the entity’s
economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to
the VIE. See Note 21 for further discussion on a consolidated VIE.
64
Table of Contents
Cat Financial has end-user customers and dealers that are VIEs of which we are not the primary beneficiary. Our maximum
exposure to loss from our involvement with these VIEs is limited to the credit risk inherently present in the financial support
that we have provided. Credit risk was evaluated and reflected in our financial statements as part of our overall portfolio of
finance receivables and related allowance for credit losses.
We include shipping and handling costs in Cost of goods sold in Statement 1.  Other operating (income) expenses primarily
include Cat Financial’s depreciation on equipment leased to others, Insurance Services’ underwriting expenses, (gains) losses
on disposal of long-lived assets, long-lived asset impairment charges, legal settlements and accruals, contract termination costs
and employee separation charges.
 
Prepaid expenses and other current assets in Statement 3 primarily include investments in debt and equity securities, prepaid
insurance, contract assets, right of return assets, prepaid and refundable income taxes, assets held for sale, core to be returned
for remanufacturing, restricted cash and other short-term investments.
Certain amounts for prior years have been reclassified to conform with the current-year financial statement presentation.
C.     Inventories
 
We state inventories at the lower of cost or net realizable value. We principally determine cost using the last-in, first-out
(LIFO) method. The value of inventories on the LIFO basis represented about 65 percent and 60 percent of total inventories at
December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
 
If the FIFO (first-in, first-out) method had been in use, inventories would have been $3,321 million and $2,599 million higher
than reported at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
D.    Depreciation and amortization
 
We compute depreciation of plant and equipment principally using accelerated methods. We compute depreciation on
equipment leased to others, primarily for Financial Products, using the straight-line method over the term of the lease. The
depreciable basis is the original cost of the equipment less the estimated residual value of the equipment at the end of the lease
term. In 2022, 2021 and 2020, Cat Financial depreciation on equipment leased to others was $718 million, $755 million and
$758 million, respectively, which we include in Other operating (income) expenses in Statement 1. In 2022, 2021 and 2020,
consolidated depreciation expense was $1,937 million, $2,050 million and $2,122 million, respectively. We compute
amortization of purchased finite-lived intangibles principally using the straight-line method, generally not to exceed a period of
20 years.
 
E.    Foreign currency translation
 
The functional currency for most of our ME&T consolidated subsidiaries is the U.S. dollar. The functional currency for most of
our Financial Products consolidated subsidiaries is the respective local currency.  We include gains and losses resulting from
the remeasurement of foreign currency amounts to the functional currency in Other income (expense) in Statement 1. We
include gains and losses resulting from translating assets and liabilities from the functional currency to U.S. dollars in
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI) in Statement 3.
 
F.    Derivative financial instruments
 
Our earnings and cash flow are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and
commodity prices.  Our Risk Management Policy (policy) allows for the use of derivative financial instruments to prudently
manage foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate and commodity price exposures. Our policy specifies that derivatives are
not to be used for speculative purposes. Derivatives that we use are primarily foreign currency forward, option and cross
currency contracts, interest rate contracts and commodity forward and option contracts. All derivatives are recorded at fair
value.  See Note 4 for more information.
65
G.    Income taxes
 
We determine the provision for income taxes using the asset and liability approach taking into account guidance related to
uncertain tax positions.  Tax laws require items to be included in tax filings at different times than the items are reflected in the
financial statements. We recognize a current liability for the estimated taxes payable for the current year.  Deferred taxes
represent the future tax consequences expected to occur when the reported amounts of assets and liabilities are recovered or
paid.  We adjust deferred taxes for enacted changes in tax rates and tax laws.  We record valuation allowances to reduce
deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. See Note 6 for further discussion.
H.    Goodwill
 
For acquisitions accounted for as a business combination, goodwill represents the excess of the cost over the fair value of the
net assets acquired.  We are required to test goodwill for impairment, at the reporting unit level, annually and when events or
circumstances make it more likely than not that an impairment may have occurred.  A reporting unit is an operating segment or
one level below an operating segment (referred to as a component) to which goodwill is assigned when initially recorded. We
assign goodwill to reporting units based on our integration plans and the expected synergies resulting from the
acquisition.  Because Caterpillar is a highly integrated company, the businesses we acquire are sometimes combined with or
integrated into existing reporting units.  When changes occur in the composition of our operating segments or reporting units,
we reassign goodwill to the affected reporting units based on their relative fair values. 
We perform our annual goodwill impairment test as of October 1 and monitor for interim triggering events on an ongoing
basis.  We review goodwill for impairment utilizing either a qualitative assessment or a quantitative goodwill impairment
test.  If we choose to perform a qualitative assessment and determine the fair value more likely than not exceeds the carrying
value, no further evaluation is necessary.  For reporting units where we perform the quantitative goodwill impairment test, we
compare the fair value of each reporting unit, which we primarily determine using an income approach based on the present
value of discounted cash flows, to the respective carrying value, which includes goodwill.  If the fair value of the reporting unit
exceeds its carrying value, we do not consider the goodwill impaired.  If the carrying value is higher than the fair value, we
would recognize the difference as an impairment loss. See Note 10 for further details.
I.    Estimates in financial statements
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts. The more significant estimates
include: residual values for leased assets; fair values for goodwill impairment tests; warranty liability and reserves for product
liability and insurance losses, postretirement benefits, post-sale discounts, credit losses and income taxes.
J.    New accounting guidance
 
A. Adoption of new accounting standards
We consider the applicability and impact of all ASUs. We adopted the following ASUs effective January 1, 2022, none of
which had a material impact on our financial statements:
ASU Description
2020-06Debt with conversion and other options and derivatives and hedging
2021-05Lessor - Variable lease payments
2021-10Government assistance
B. Accounting standards issued but not yet adopted
We consider the applicability and impact of all ASUs. We assessed ASUs and determined that they either were not
applicable or were not expected to have a material impact on our financial statements.
66
Table of Contents
2.     Sales and revenue recognition
A. Sales of Machinery, Energy & Transportation
We recognize sales of ME&T when all the following criteria are satisfied: (i) a contract with an independently owned and
operated dealer or an end user exists which has commercial substance; (ii) it is probable we will collect the amount charged to
the dealer or end user; and (iii) we have completed our performance obligation whereby the dealer or end user has obtained
control of the product. A contract with commercial substance exists once we receive and accept a purchase order under a dealer
sales agreement, or once we enter into a contract with an end user. If collectibility is not probable, the sale is deferred and not
recognized until collection is probable or payment is received. Control of our products typically transfers when title and risk of
ownership of the product has transferred to the dealer or end user. Typically, where product is produced and sold in the same
country, title and risk of ownership transfer when we ship the product. Products that are exported from a country for sale
typically transfer title and risk of ownership at the border of the destination country.
Our remanufacturing operations are primarily focused on the remanufacture of Cat engines and components and rail related
products.  In this business, we inspect, clean and remanufacture used engines and related components (core).  In connection
with the sale of our remanufactured product to dealers, we collect a deposit that is repaid if the dealer returns an acceptable
core within a specified time period.  Caterpillar owns and has title to the cores when they are returned from dealers.  The
rebuilt engine or component (the core plus any new content) is then sold as a remanufactured product to dealers and end users. 
We recognize revenue pursuant to the same transfer of control criteria as ME&T sales noted above.  At the time of sale, we
recognize the deposit in Other current liabilities in Statement 3, and we recognize the core to be returned as an asset in Prepaid
expenses and other current assets in Statement 3 at the estimated replacement cost (based on historical experience with usable
cores).  Upon receipt of an acceptable core, we repay the deposit and relieve the liability.  We then transfer the returned core
asset into inventory. In the event that the deposit is forfeited (i.e., upon failure by the dealer to return an acceptable core in the
specified time period), we recognize the core deposit and the cost of the core in Sales and Cost of goods sold, respectively. 
We provide discounts to dealers through merchandising programs. We have numerous programs that are designed to promote
the sale of our products.  The most common dealer programs provide a discount when the dealer sells a product to a targeted
end user.  Generally, we estimate the cost of these discounts for each product by model by geographic region based on
historical experience and known changes in merchandising programs. We report the cost of these discounts as a reduction to
the transaction price when we recognize the product sale. We accrue a corresponding post-sale discount reserve in Statement 3,
which represents discounts we expect to pay on units sold. If discounts paid differ from those estimated, we report the
difference as a change in the transaction price.
Except for replacement parts, no right of return exists on the sale of our products.  We estimate replacement part returns based
on historical experience and recognize a parts return asset in Prepaid expenses and other current assets in Statement 3, which
represents our right to recover replacement parts we expect will be returned. We also recognize a refund liability in Other
current liabilities in Statement 3 for the refund we expect to pay for returned parts. If actual replacement part returns differ
from those estimated, we recognize the difference in the estimated replacement part return asset and refund liability in Cost of
goods sold and Sales, respectively.
Trade receivables represent amounts due from dealers and end users for the sale of our products, and include amounts due from
wholesale inventory financing provided by Cat Financial for a dealer's purchase of inventory. See Note 7 for further
information. We recognize trade receivables from dealers and end users in Receivables - trade and other and Long-term
receivables trade and other in Statement 3. Trade receivables from dealers and end users were $7,551 million, $7,267 million
and $6,310 million as of December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Long-term trade receivables from dealers and end
users were $506 million, $624 million and $657 million as of December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
Our standard dealer invoice terms are established by marketing region. Our invoice terms for end user sales are established by
the responsible business unit. Payments from dealers are due shortly after the time of sale. When we make a sale to a dealer,
the dealer is responsible for payment even if the product is not sold to an end user. Dealers and end users must make payment
within the established invoice terms to avoid potential interest costs. Interest at or above prevailing market rates may be
charged on any past due balance, and generally our practice is to not forgive this interest. Our allowance for credit losses is not
significant for ME&T receivables.
67
Table of Contents
For certain contracts, we invoice for payment when contractual milestones are achieved. We recognize a contract asset when a
sale is recognized prior to invoicing. We reduce the contract asset when we invoice for payment and recognize a corresponding
trade receivable. Contract assets are included in Prepaid expenses and other current assets in Statement 3. Contract assets were
$247 million, $187 million and $187 million as of December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
We invoice in advance of recognizing the sale of certain products. We recognize advanced customer payments as a contract
liability in Customer advances and Other liabilities in Statement 3. Contract liabilities were $2,314 million, $1,557 million and
$1,526 million as of December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. We reduce the contract liability when we recognize
revenue. During 2022, we recognized $902 million of revenue that was recorded as a contract liability at the beginning of
2022. During 2021, we recognized $903 million of revenue that was recorded as a contract liability at the beginning of 2021.
We have elected the practical expedient to not adjust the amount of revenue to be recognized under a contract with a dealer or
end user for the effects of time value of money when the timing difference between receipt of payment and recognition of
revenue is less than one year.
As of December 31, 2022, we have entered into contracts with dealers and end users for which sales have not been recognized
as we have not satisfied our performance obligations and transferred control of the products. The dollar amount of unsatisfied
performance obligations for contracts with an original duration greater than one year is $12.2 billion, with about one-half of the
amount expected to be completed and revenue recognized in the twelve months following December 31, 2022. We have
elected the practical expedient to not disclose unsatisfied performance obligations with an original contract duration of one
year or less. Contracts with an original duration of one year or less are primarily sales to dealers for machinery, engines and
replacement parts.
We exclude sales and other related taxes from the transaction price. We account for shipping and handling costs associated
with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred as a fulfillment cost which is included in Cost of goods sold.
We provide a standard manufacturer’s warranty of our products at no additional cost. At the time we recognize a sale, we
record estimated future warranty costs. See Note 21 for further discussion of our product warranty liabilities.
See Note 23 for further disaggregated sales and revenues information.
B. Revenues of Financial Products
Revenues of Financial Products are generated primarily from finance revenue on finance receivables and rental payments on
operating leases. We record finance revenue over the life of the related finance receivables using the interest method, including
the accretion of certain direct origination costs that are deferred. We recognize revenue from rental payments received on
operating leases on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
We suspend recognition of finance revenue and operating lease revenue and place the account on non-accrual status when
management determines that collection of future income is not probable (generally after 120 days past due). We resume
recognition of revenue, and recognize previously suspended income, when we consider collection of remaining amounts to be
probable. We write off interest earned but uncollected prior to the receivables being placed on non-accrual status through
Provision for credit losses when, in the judgment of management, we consider it to be uncollectible. See Note 7 for more
information.
3.     Stock-based compensation
 
Our stock-based compensation plans primarily provide for the granting of stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs) and
performance-based restricted stock units (PRSUs) to Officers and other key employees, as well as non-employee Directors.
Stock options permit a holder to buy Caterpillar stock at the stock’s price when the option was granted. RSUs are agreements
to issue shares of Caterpillar stock at the time of vesting. PRSUs are similar to RSUs and include performance conditions in
the vesting terms of the award.
 
68
Table of Contents
Our long-standing practices and policies specify that the Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors
approve all stock-based compensation awards.  The award approval process specifies the grant date, value and terms of the
award.  We consistently apply the same terms and conditions to all employee grants, including Officers. The Committee
approves all individual Officer grants.  We determine the number of stock-based compensation award units included in an
individual’s award based on the methodology approved by the Committee. The exercise price methodology approved by the
Committee is the closing price of the Company stock on the date of the grant. In June of 2014, shareholders approved the
Caterpillar Inc. 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the Plan) under which all new stock-based compensation awards are granted.
In June of 2017, shareholders amended and restated the Plan. The Plan initially provided that up to 38,800,000 Common
Shares would be reserved for future issuance under the Plan, subject to adjustment in certain events. Subsequent to the
shareholder approval of the amendment and restatement of the Plan, an additional 36,000,000 Common Shares became
available for all awards under the Plan.
 
Common stock issued from Treasury stock under the plans totaled 2,340,887 for 2022, 3,571,503 for 2021 and 5,317,243 for
2020. The total number of shares authorized for equity awards under the amended and restated Caterpillar Inc. 2014 Long-
Term Incentive Plan is 74,800,000, of which 31,334,705 shares remained available for issuance as of December 31, 2022.
 
Stock option and RSU awards generally vest according to a three-year graded vesting schedule. One-third of the award will
become vested on the first anniversary of the grant date, one-third of the award will become vested on the second anniversary
of the grant date and one-third of the award will become vested on the third anniversary of the grant date. PRSU awards
generally have a three-year performance period and cliff vest at the end of the period based upon achievement of performance
targets established at the time of grant.
Upon separation from service, if the participant is 55 years of age or older with more than five years of service, the participant
meets the criteria for a “Long Service Separation.”  Award terms for stock option and RSU grants allow for continued vesting
as of each vesting date specified in the award document for employees who meet the criteria for a “Long Service Separation”
and fulfill a requisite service period of six months.  We recognize compensation expense for eligible employees for the grants
over the period from the grant date to the end date of the six-month requisite service period.  For employees who become
eligible for a “Long Service Separation” subsequent to the end date of the six-month requisite service period and prior to the
completion of the vesting period, we recognized compensation expense over the period from the grant date to the date
eligibility is achieved.
  
Award terms for PRSU grants allow for continued vesting upon achievement of the performance target specified in the award
document for employees who meet the criteria for a “Long Service Separation” and fulfill a requisite service period of six
months. We recognize compensation expense for the PRSU grants with respect to employees who have met the criteria for a
“Long Service Separation” over the period from the grant date to the end of the six-month requisite service period. For
employees who become eligible for a “Long Service Separation” subsequent to the end date of the six-month requisite service
period and prior to the completion of the vesting period, we recognize compensation expense over the period from the grant
date to the date eligibility is achieved.
 
At grant, option awards have a term life of ten years.  For awards granted prior to 2016, if the “Long Service Separation”
criteria are met, the vested options have a life that is the lesser of ten years from the original grant date or five years from the
separation date.  For awards granted beginning in 2016, the vested options have a life equal to ten years from the original grant
date.
Accounting guidance on share-based payments requires companies to estimate the fair value of options on the date of grant
using an option-pricing model.  The fair value of our option grants was estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing
model.  The Black-Scholes option-pricing model considers a range of assumptions related to volatility, risk-free interest rate
and historical employee behavior.  Expected volatility was based on historical Caterpillar stock price movement and current
implied volatilities from traded options on Caterpillar stock. The risk-free interest rate was based on U.S. Treasury security
yields at the time of grant. The weighted-average dividend yield was based on historical information.  We determine the
expected life from the actual historical employee exercise behavior. The following table provides the assumptions used in
determining the fair value of the Option awards for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
69
Table of Contents
 Grant Year
 2022 2021 2020
Weighted-average dividend yield 2.6 % 2.6 % 2.5 %
Weighted-average volatility 31.7 % 32.9 % 25.7 %
Range of volatilities 25.3%-36.8% 29.2%-45.8% 24.5%- 29.7%
Range of risk-free interest rates 1.03%-2% 0.06%-1.41% 1.21%-1.39%
Weighted-average expected lives 8 years 8 years 8 years
 
Beginning with the 2018 grant, we credit RSU and PRSU awards with dividend equivalent units on each date that we pay a
cash dividend to holders of Common stock. We determine the fair value of the RSU and PRSU awards granted in 2022, 2021
and 2020 as the closing stock price on the date of the grant.
Please refer to Tables I and II below for additional information on our stock-based compensation awards.  
TABLE I — Financial Information Related to Stock-based Compensation
 Stock options RSUs PRSUs
 SharesWeighted-
 Average
 Exercise
 Price SharesWeighted-
Average
Grant Date
Fair Value SharesWeighted-
Average
Grant Date
Fair Value
      
Outstanding at January 1, 2022 7,722,420 $ 127.52 1,100,181 $ 166.50 645,373 $ 165.74 
Granted to officers and key employees 1,029,202 $ 196.70 507,284 $ 196.06 277,192 $ 195.17 
Exercised (1,888,557)$ 108.40 — $ — — $ — 
Vested — $ — (581,132)$ 154.77 (375,773)$ 127.60 
Forfeited / expired (61,739)$ 182.24 (35,530)$ 183.91 (22,052)$ 170.75 
Outstanding at December 31, 2022 6,801,326 $ 142.85 990,803 $ 187.88 524,740 $ 208.39 
Exercisable at December 31, 2022 4,481,546 $ 120.77 
Stock options outstanding and exercisable as of December 31, 2022:
 Outstanding Exercisable
Exercise PricesShares
Outstanding
at 12/31/2022Weighted-
 Average
 Remaining
 Contractual
Life (Years)Weighted-
 Average
 Exercise
PriceAggregate
 Intrinsic
Value Shares
Outstanding
at 12/31/2022Weighted-
 Average
 Remaining
Contractual
Life (Years)Weighted-
 Average
 Exercise
PriceAggregate
 Intrinsic
Value 
$74.77-$88.51 1,254,848 2.75$ 78.54 $ 202 1,254,848 2.75$ 78.54 $ 202 
$89.75-$110.09 812,203 3.47$ 95.50 117 811,698 3.47$ 95.50 117 
$127.60 1,167,848 7.27$ 127.72 131 555,435 7.27$ 127.60 62 
$138.35-$151.12 1,517,053 5.78$ 144.36 144 1,517,053 5.78$ 144.36 144 
$196.70-$219.76 2,049,374 8.79$ 208.49 64 342,512 8.28$ 219.76 7 
 6,801,326  $ 142.85 $ 658 4,481,546  $ 120.77 $ 532 
The difference between a stock award’s exercise price and the underlying stock’s closing market price at December 31, 2022, for awards with market price
greater than the exercise price. Amounts are in millions of dollars.
The computations of weighted-average exercise prices and aggregate intrinsic values are not applicable to RSUs or PRSUs
since these awards represent an agreement to issue shares of stock at the time of vesting.  At December 31, 2022, there were
990,803 outstanding RSUs with a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.4 years and 524,740 outstanding PRSUs
with a weighted-average remaining contractual life of 1.5 years.1 1
1    
70
Table of Contents
 
TABLE II— Additional Stock-based Award Information
(Dollars in millions except per  shar e data) 2022 2021 2020
Stock options activity:    
Weighted-average fair value per share of stock awards granted $ 51.69  $ 56.30  $ 25.98  
Intrinsic value of stock awards exercised $ 217 $ 374 $ 386 
Fair value of stock awards vested $ 56 $ 59 $ 64 
Cash received from stock awards exercised $ 123 $ 212 $ 282 
RSUs activity:    
Weighted-average fair value per share of stock awards granted $ 196.06  $ 216.50  $ 128.07  
Fair value of stock awards vested $ 105 $ 136 $ 87 
PRSUs activity:    
Weighted-average fair value per share of stock awards granted $ 195.17  $ 215.45  $ 128.41  
Fair value of stock awards vested $ 90 $ 74 $ 59 
 
Based on the grant date fair value.
Based on the underlying stock’s closing market price on the vesting date.
In accordance with guidance on share-based payments, stock-based compensation expense is based on the grant date fair value
and is classified within Cost of goods sold, Selling, general and administrative expenses and Research and development
expenses corresponding to the same line item as the cash compensation paid to respective employees, officers and non-
employee directors. We recognize stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period
for awards with terms that specify cliff or graded vesting and contain only service conditions. Stock-based compensation
expense for PRSUs is based on the probable number of shares expected to vest and is recognized primarily on a straight-line
basis.
Before tax, stock-based compensation expense for 2022, 2021 and 2020 was $193 million, $200 million and $202 million,
respectively, with a corresponding income tax benefit of $32 million, $23 million and $34 million, respectively.
The amount of stock-based compensation expense capitalized for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 did not
have a significant impact on our financial statements.
 
At December 31, 2022, there was $140 million of total unrecognized compensation cost from stock-based compensation
arrangements granted under the plans, which is related to non-vested stock-based awards.  We expect to recognize the
compensation expense over a weighted-average period of approximately 1.7 years.
We currently use shares in Treasury stock to satisfy share award exercises.
 
The cash tax benefits realized from stock awards exercised for 2022, 2021 and 2020 were $63 million, $102 million and $108
million, respectively. We use the direct only method and tax law ordering approach to calculate the tax effects of stock-based
compensation. 
 1
2
2
1    
2    
71
Table of Contents
4.     Derivative financial instruments and risk management
 
Our earnings and cash flow are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and
commodity prices.  Our Risk Management Policy (policy) allows for the use of derivative financial instruments to prudently
manage foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate and commodity price exposures.  Our policy specifies that derivatives are
not to be used for speculative purposes.  Derivatives that we use are primarily foreign currency forward, option and cross
currency contracts, interest rate contracts and commodity forward and option contracts.  Our derivative activities are subject to
the management, direction and control of our senior financial officers.  We present at least annually to the Audit Committee of
the Board of Directors on our risk management practices, including our use of financial derivative instruments.
 
We recognize all derivatives at their fair value in Statement 3. On the date the derivative contract is entered into, we designate
the derivative as (1) a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability (fair value hedge), (2) a hedge of a forecasted
transaction or the variability of cash flow (cash flow hedge) or (3) an undesignated instrument. We record in current earnings
changes in the fair value of a derivative that is qualified, designated and highly effective as a fair value hedge, along with the
gain or loss on the hedged recognized asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk. We record in AOCI changes in the
fair value of a derivative that is qualified, designated and highly effective as a cash flow hedge, to the extent effective, in
Statement 3 until we reclassify them to earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects
earnings.  We report changes in the fair value of undesignated derivative instruments in current earnings. We classify cash
flows from designated derivative financial instruments within the same category as the item being hedged on Statement 5.  We
include cash flows from undesignated derivative financial instruments in the investing category on Statement 5.
 
We formally document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as the risk-management
objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.  This process includes linking all derivatives that are
designated as fair value hedges to specific assets and liabilities in Statement 3 and linking cash flow hedges to specific
forecasted transactions or variability of cash flow.
 
We also formally assess, both at the hedge’s inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the designated derivatives that are
used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flow of hedged items.  When a
derivative is determined not to be highly effective as a hedge or the underlying hedged transaction is no longer probable, we
discontinue hedge accounting prospectively, in accordance with the derecognition criteria for hedge accounting.
 
A.Foreign currency exchange rate risk
 
Foreign currency exchange rate movements create a degree of risk by affecting the U.S. dollar value of sales made and costs
incurred in foreign currencies. Movements in foreign currency rates also affect our competitive position as these changes may
affect business practices and/or pricing strategies of non-U.S.-based competitors. Additionally, we have balance sheet positions
denominated in foreign currencies, thereby creating exposure to movements in exchange rates.
 
Our ME&T operations purchase, manufacture and sell products in many locations around the world. As we have a diversified
revenue and cost base, we manage our future foreign currency cash flow exposure on a net basis. We use foreign currency
forward and option contracts to manage unmatched foreign currency cash inflow and outflow. Our objective is to minimize the
risk of exchange rate movements that would reduce the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency cash flow. Our policy allows
for managing anticipated foreign currency cash flow for up to approximately five years. As of December 31, 2022, the
maximum term of these outstanding contracts at inception was approximately 60 months.
 
We generally designate as cash flow hedges at inception of the contract any foreign currency forward or option contracts that
meet the requirements for hedge accounting and the maturity extends beyond the current quarter-end. We perform designation
on a specific exposure basis to support hedge accounting. The remainder of ME&T foreign currency contracts are
undesignated.
 
72
Table of Contents
In managing foreign currency risk for our Financial Products operations, our objective is to minimize earnings volatility
resulting from conversion and the remeasurement of net foreign currency balance sheet positions and future transactions
denominated in foreign currencies. Our policy allows the use of foreign currency forward, option and cross currency contracts
to offset the risk of currency mismatch between our assets and liabilities and exchange rate risk associated with future
transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Our foreign currency forward and option contracts are primarily undesignated.
We designate fixed-to-fixed cross currency contracts as cash flow hedges to protect against movements in exchange rates on
foreign currency fixed-rate assets and liabilities.
 
B.Interest rate risk
 
Interest rate movements create a degree of risk by affecting the amount of our interest payments and the value of our fixed-rate
debt. Our practice is to use interest rate contracts to manage our exposure to interest rate changes.
 
Our ME&T operations generally use fixed-rate debt as a source of funding.  Our objective is to minimize the cost of borrowed
funds.  Our policy allows us to enter into fixed-to-floating interest rate contracts and forward rate agreements to meet that
objective. We designate fixed-to-floating interest rate contracts as fair value hedges at inception of the contract, and we
designate certain forward rate agreements as cash flow hedges at inception of the contract.
Financial Products operations has a match-funding policy that addresses interest rate risk by aligning the interest rate profile
(fixed or floating rate and duration) of Cat Financial’s debt portfolio with the interest rate profile of our receivables portfolio
within predetermined ranges on an ongoing basis. In connection with that policy, we use interest rate derivative instruments to
modify the debt structure to match assets within the receivables portfolio. This matched funding reduces the volatility of
margins between interest-bearing assets and interest-bearing liabilities, regardless of which direction interest rates move.
 
Our policy allows us to use fixed-to-floating, floating-to-fixed and floating-to-floating interest rate contracts to meet the match-
funding objective.  We designate fixed-to-floating interest rate contracts as fair value hedges to protect debt against changes in
fair value due to changes in the benchmark interest rate.  We designate most floating-to-fixed interest rate contracts as cash
flow hedges to protect against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate.
We have, at certain times, liquidated fixed-to-floating and floating-to-fixed interest rate contracts at both ME&T and Financial
Products.  We amortize the gains or losses associated with these contracts at the time of liquidation into earnings over the
original term of the previously designated hedged item.
 
C.Commodity price risk
 
Commodity price movements create a degree of risk by affecting the price we must pay for certain raw materials. Our policy is
to use commodity forward and option contracts to manage the commodity risk and reduce the cost of purchased materials.
 
Our ME&T operations purchase base and precious metals embedded in the components we purchase from suppliers.  Our
suppliers pass on to us price changes in the commodity portion of the component cost. In addition, we are subject to price
changes on energy products such as natural gas and diesel fuel purchased for operational use.
 
Our objective is to minimize volatility in the price of these commodities. Our policy allows us to enter into commodity forward
and option contracts to lock in the purchase price of a portion of these commodities within a five-year horizon. All such
commodity forward and option contracts are undesignated.
73
Table of Contents
The location and fair value of derivative instruments reported in Statement 3 were as follows: 
(Millions of dollars) Fair Value
December  31, 2022 December 31, 2021
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
Designated derivatives
Foreign exchange contracts $ 462 $ (152)$ 228 $ (64)
Interest rate contracts 93 (288) 38 (15)
Total $ 555 $ (440)$ 266 $ (79)
Undesignated derivatives
Foreign exchange contracts $ 65 $ (47)$ 46 $ (42)
Commodity contracts 24 (9) 30 (9)
Total $ 89 $ (56)$ 76 $ (51)
 Assets are classified in Statement 3 as Receivables - trade and other or Long-term receivables - trade and other.
 Liabilities are classified in Statement 3 as Accrued expenses or Other liabilities.
The total notional amounts of the derivative instruments as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 were $24.3 billion and
$18.9 billion, respectively. The notional amounts of the derivative financial instruments do not represent amounts exchanged
by the parties. We calculate the amounts exchanged by the parties by referencing the notional amounts and by other terms of
the derivatives, such as foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates or commodity prices.1 2 1 2
1
2
74
Table of Contents
Gains (Losses) on derivative instruments are categorized as follows:
(Millions of dollars) Years ended December  31
Fair Value / Undesignated
Hedges Cash Flow Hedges
Gains (Losses) Recognized in
Statement 1Gains (Losses) Recognized
in AOCIGains (Losses) Reclassified
from AOCI
2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
Foreign exchange contracts $ (57)$ 104 $ (74) $264 $169 $(82) $329 $227 $(185)
Interest rate contracts (6) 24 15 111 26 (34) 11 (31) (56)
Commodity contracts 51 56 11 — — — — — — 
Total $ (12)$ 184 $ (48) $375 $195 $(116) $340 $196 $(241)
 Foreign exchange contract and Commodity contract gains (losses) are included in Other income (expense). Interest rate contract gains (losses) are
primarily included in Interest expense of Financial Products.
 Foreign exchange contract gains (losses) are primarily included in Other income (expense) in Statement 1. Interest rate contract gains (losses) are
primarily included in Interest expense of Financial Products in Statement 1.
The following amounts were recorded in Statement 3 related to cumulative basis adjustments for fair value hedges:
(Millions of dollars) Years ended December  31
Carrying Value of the Hedged LiabilitiesCumulative Amount of Fair  Value
Hedging Adjustment Included in the
Carrying Value of the Hedged Liabilities
2022 2021 2022 2021
Long-term debt due within one year $ — $ 755 $ — $ 5 
Long-term debt due after one year 4,173  1,304  (280) (2)
Total $ 4,173  $ 2,059  $ (280)$ 3 
We enter into International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) master netting agreements within ME&T and Financial
Products that permit the net settlement of amounts owed under their respective derivative contracts. Under these master netting
agreements, net settlement generally permits the company or the counterparty to determine the net amount payable for
contracts due on the same date and in the same currency for similar types of derivative transactions. The master netting
agreements may also provide for net settlement of all outstanding contracts with a counterparty in the case of an event of
default or a termination event.
Collateral is typically not required of the counterparties or of our company under the master netting agreements. As of
December 31, 2022 and 2021, no cash collateral was received or pledged under the master netting agreements.
The effect of the net settlement provisions of the master netting agreements on our derivative balances upon an event of default
or termination event was as follows:
(Millions of dollars) December  31, 2022 December 31, 2021
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
Gross Amounts Recognized $ 644 $ (496) $ 342 $ (130)
Financial Instruments Not Of fset (233) 233 (114) 114 
Cash Collateral Received — — — — 
Net Amount $ 411 $ (263) $ 228 $ (16)1 2
1
2
75
Table of Contents
5.    Other income (expense)
 
 Years ended December  31,
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020
Investment and interest income $ 167 $ 80 $ 112 
Foreign exchange gains (losses) 104 110 (193)
License fee income 142 123 104 
Gains (losses) on securities (56) 134 37 
Net periodic pension and OPEB income (cost), excluding service cost 868 1,279  (90)
Miscellaneous income (loss) 66 88 (14)
Total $ 1,291  $ 1,814  $ (44)
Includes gains (losses) from foreign exchange derivative contracts.  See Note 4 for further details.
6.    Income taxes
Reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory rate to effective rate:
Years ended December  31,
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020
Taxes at U.S. statutory rate $ 1,838  21.0 %$ 1,723  21.0 %$ 839 21.0 %
(Decreases) increases resulting from:       
Non-U.S. subsidiaries taxed at other than the U.S. rate 237 2.7 % 211 2.6 % 285 7.1 %
State and local taxes, net of federal 89 1.0 % 28 0.3 % 32 0.8 %
Interest and penalties, net of tax 44 0.5 % 45 0.6 % 28 0.7 %
U.S. tax incentives (166) (1.9)% (123) (1.5)% (52) (1.3)%
Net excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation (33) (0.4)% (63) (0.8)% (49) (1.2)%
Prior year tax and interest adjustments (90) (1.0)% (36) (0.4)% (80) (2.0)%
Nondeductible goodwill 159 1.8 % — — % — — %
Other—net (11) (0.1)% (43) (0.6)% 3 0.1 %
Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 2,067  23.6 %$ 1,742  21.2 %$ 1,006  25.2 %
 Excludes amounts included in other line items.
 
The negative impact on the effective rate from the portion of the goodwill impairment not deductible for tax purposes is
reported in the effective tax rate reconciliation line item above labeled "Nondeductible goodwill." Included in the line item
above labeled “Non-U.S. subsidiaries taxed at other than the U.S. rate” are the effects of local and U.S. taxes related to
earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries, changes in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits associated with these earnings, losses at
non-U.S. subsidiaries without local tax benefits due to valuation allowances and other permanent differences between tax and
U.S. GAAP results.
Distributions of profits from non-U.S. subsidiaries are not expected to cause a significant incremental U.S. tax impact in the
future. However, these distributions may be subject to non-U.S. withholding taxes if profits are distributed from certain
jurisdictions. Undistributed profits of non-U.S. subsidiaries of approximately $16 billion are considered indefinitely reinvested.
Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability related to indefinitely reinvested profits is not feasible
primarily due to our legal entity structure and the complexity of U.S. and local tax laws.1 
1 
1
 1
1
76
Table of Contents
The components of pr ofit (loss) befor e taxes wer e: 
 Years ended December  31,
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020
U.S. $ 2,962  $ 2,740  $ 590 
Non-U.S. 5,790  5,464  3,405  
 $ 8,752  $ 8,204  $ 3,995  
 
Profit before taxes, as shown above, is based on the location of the entity to which such earnings are attributable. Where an
entity’s earnings are subject to taxation, however, may not correlate solely to where an entity is located.  Thus, the income tax
provision shown below as U.S. or non-U.S. may not correspond to the earnings shown above.
 
The components of the pr ovision (benefit) for  income taxes wer e:
 Years ended December  31,
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020
Current tax provision (benefit):    
U.S. $ 1,055  $ 766 $ 18 
Non-U.S. 1,255  1,283  1,031  
State (U.S.) 134 76 31 
 2,444  2,125  1,080  
Deferred tax provision (benefit):    
U.S. (404) (387) (44)
Non-U.S. 50 54 (34)
State (U.S.) (23) (50) 4 
 (377) (383) (74)
Total provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 2,067  $ 1,742  $ 1,006  
 Includes U.S. taxes related to non-U.S. earnings. We account for U.S. taxes on global intangible low-taxed income as a period cost.
 
We paid net income tax and related interest of $3,076 million, $1,759 million and $1,311 million in 2022, 2021 and 2020,
respectively.
Accounting for income taxes under U.S. GAAP requires that individual tax-paying entities of the company offset all deferred
tax liabilities and assets within each particular tax jurisdiction and present them as a noncurrent deferred tax liability or asset in
the Consolidated Financial Position. Amounts in different tax jurisdictions cannot be offset against each other. The amount of
deferred income taxes at December 31, included on the following lines in Statement 3, were as follows:
 
 December  31,
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021
Assets:   
Noncurrent deferred and refundable income taxes $ 2,047  $ 1,669  
Liabilities:   
Other liabilities 471 412 
Deferred income taxes—net $ 1,576  $ 1,257  
 1
1
1
77
Table of Contents
The components of deferr ed tax assets and liabilities wer e:
 December  31,
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021
Deferred income tax assets:   
Tax carryforwards $ 1,349  $ 1,380  
Research expenditures 949 415 
Postemployment benefits 728 959 
Employee compensation and benefits 459 464 
Warranty reserves 282 266 
Post sale discounts 159 143 
Inventory valuation 147 40 
Lease obligations 144 159 
Intercompany prepayments 121 280 
Allowance for credit losses 113 106 
Other—net 255 268 
 4,706  4,480  
Deferred income tax liabilities:   
Capital and intangible assets, including lease basis dif ferences (1,401 ) (1,530 )
Other outside basis dif ferences (264) (264)
Translation (219) (188)
Undistributed profits of non-U.S. subsidiaries (125) (101)
Bond discount (107) (112)
 (2,116) (2,195 )
Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets (1,014 ) (1,028 )
Deferred income taxes—net $ 1,576  $ 1,257  
 
At December 31, 2022, approximately $690 million of U.S. state tax net operating losses and $110 million of U.S. state tax credit
carryforwards were available. These carryforwards primarily expire over the next fifteen years, with some having an unlimited
carryforward period.
At December 31, 2022, approximately $730 million of capital losses and $60 million of U.S. foreign tax credits were available to
carryforward on the U.S. federal tax return. These losses will expire in 2027, while the credits have a ten-year carryforward
period and begin to expire in 2029.
At December 31, 2022, net operating loss and interest carryforwards in various non-U.S. taxing jurisdictions were approximately
$4,517 million. Of these, $996 million expire between 2023 and 2043. The remaining carryforwards do not expire.
 
At December 31, 2022, non-U.S. entities that have not yet demonstrated consistent and/or sustainable profitability to support the
realization of net deferred tax assets have recorded valuation allowances of $745 million, including certain entities in
Luxembourg.
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions, including
positions impacting only the timing of tax benefits, follows.
78
Table of Contents
 Reconciliation of unr ecognized tax benefits: 
 Years ended December  31,
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020
Beginning balance $ 1,886  $ 1,759  $ 1,778  
Additions for tax positions related to current year 72 141 44 
Additions for tax positions related to prior years 91 43 46 
Reductions for tax positions related to prior years (66) (30) (12)
Reductions for settlements  (840) (24) (94)
Reductions for expiration of statute of limitations (3) (3) (3)
Ending balance $ 1,140  $ 1,886  $ 1,759  
Amount that, if recognized, would impact the ef fective tax rate $ 874 $ 1,688  $ 1,657  
Foreign currency impacts are included within each line as applicable.
Includes cash payment or other reduction of assets to settle liability .
We classify interest and penalties on income taxes as a component of the provision for income taxes. We recognized a net
provision for interest and penalties of $49 million, $54 million and $38 million during the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021
and 2020, respectively. The total amount of interest and penalties accrued was $95 million and $297 million as of December 31,
2022 and 2021, respectively.
On September 8, 2022, the company reached a settlement with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that resolves all issues
for tax years 2007 through 2016, without any penalties. The company's settlement includes, among other issues, the resolution of
disputed tax treatment of profits earned by Caterpillar SARL (CSARL) from certain parts transactions. We vigorously contested
the IRS's application of the "substance-over-form" or "assignment-of-income" judicial doctrines and its proposed increases to tax
and imposition of accuracy related penalties. The settlement does not include any increases to tax in the United States based on
those judicial doctrines and does not include any penalties. The final tax assessed by the IRS for all issues under the settlement
was $490 million for the ten-year period. This amount was primarily paid in 2022 along with associated interest of $250 million.
The settlement was within the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions and enables us to avoid
the costs and burdens of further disputes with the IRS. As a result of the settlement, we recorded a tax benefit of $41 million in
2022 to reflect changes in estimates of prior years' taxes and related interest, net of tax.
We are subject to the continuous examination of our U.S. federal income tax returns by the IRS, and tax years 2017 to 2019 are
currently under examination. In our major non-U.S. jurisdictions including Australia, Brazil, China, Germany, India, Japan,
Mexico, Switzerland, Singapore and the U.K., tax years are typically subject to examination for three to ten years. Due to the
uncertainty related to the timing and potential outcome of audits, we cannot estimate the range of reasonably possible change in
unrecognized tax benefits in the next 12 months.
7.     Cat Financial Financing Activities
 
A.Wholesale inventory receivables
 
Wholesale inventory receivables are receivables of Cat Financial that arise when Cat Financial provides financing for a dealer’s
purchase of inventory and were $1,102 million and $1,098 million, at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. We include
these receivables in Receivables—trade and other and Long-term receivables—trade and other in Statement 3.1
2
1
2
79
Table of Contents
 Contractual maturities of outstanding wholesale inventory r eceivables:
(Millions of dollars) December  31, 2022
Amounts Due InWholesale
LoansWholesale
Leases Total
2023 $ 547 $ 44 $ 591 
2024 166 35 201 
2025 118 27 145 
2026 54 12 66 
2027 14 4 18 
Thereafter 2 — 2 
Total 901 122 1,023  
Guaranteed residual value 57 22 79 
Unguaranteed residual value 2 25 27 
Less: Unearned income (12) (15) (27)
Total $ 948 $ 154 $ 1,102  
 For Wholesale loans, represents residual value on failed sale leasebacks.
 
Cat Financial’s wholesale inventory receivables generally may be repaid or refinanced without penalty prior to contractual
maturity.
Please refer to Note 18 for fair value information.
B.Finance receivables
 
Finance receivables are receivables of Cat Financial and are reported in Statement 3 net of an allowance for credit losses.
 Contractual maturities of outstanding finance r eceivables:
(Millions of dollars) December  31, 2022
Amounts Due InRetail
LoansRetail
Leases Total
2023 $ 6,317  $ 2,814  $ 9,131  
2024 3,772  1,775  5,547  
2025 2,671  994 3,665  
2026 1,482  532 2,014  
2027 533 171 704 
Thereafter 116 39 155 
Total 14,891  6,325  21,216  
Guaranteed residual value 12 378 390 
Unguaranteed residual value 2 638 640 
Less: Unearned income (335) (554) (889)
Total $ 14,570  $ 6,787  $ 21,357  
For Retail loans, represents residual value on failed sale leasebacks.
Cat Financial’s finance receivables generally may be repaid or refinanced without penalty prior to contractual maturity.
Please refer to Note 18 for fair value information.1
1
1
 1
1
1 
80
 
C.Allowance for credit losses
 
Portfolio segments
A portfolio segment is the level at which Cat Financial develops a systematic methodology for determining its allowance for
credit losses. Cat Financial's portfolio segments and related methods for estimating expected credit losses are as follows:
Customer
Cat Financial provides loans and finance leases to end-user customers primarily for the purpose of financing new and used
Caterpillar machinery, engines and equipment for commercial use. Cat Financial also provides financing for vehicles, power
generation facilities and marine vessels that, in most cases, incorporate Caterpillar products. The average original term of Cat
Financial's customer finance receivable portfolio was approximately 50 months with an average remaining term of approximately
27 months as of December 31, 2022.
Cat Financial typically maintains a security interest in financed equipment and requires physical damage insurance coverage on
the financed equipment, both of which provide Cat Financial with certain rights and protections. If Cat Financial's collection
efforts fail to bring a defaulted account current, Cat Financial generally can repossess the financed equipment, after satisfying
local legal requirements, and sell it within the Caterpillar dealer network or through third-party auctions.
Cat Financial estimates the allowance for credit losses related to its customer finance receivables based on loss forecast models
utilizing probabilities of default and the estimated loss given default based on past loss experience adjusted for current conditions
and reasonable and supportable forecasts capturing country and industry-specific economic factors.
During the year ended December 31, 2022, Cat Financial's forecasts for the markets in which it operates reflected a continuation
of the trend of relatively low unemployment rates and delinquencies. However, high inflation rates and consequent central bank
actions are weakening global economic growth. The company believes the economic forecasts employed represent reasonable
and supportable forecasts, followed by a reversion to long-term trends.
Dealer
Cat Financial provides financing to Caterpillar dealers in the form of wholesale financing plans. Cat Financial's wholesale
financing plans provide assistance to dealers by financing their mostly new Caterpillar equipment inventory and rental fleets on a
secured and unsecured basis. In addition, Cat Financial provides a variety of secured and unsecured loans to Caterpillar dealers.
    
Cat Financial estimates the allowance for credit losses for dealer finance receivables based on historical loss rates with
consideration of current economic conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts.
In general, Cat Financial's Dealer portfolio segment has not historically experienced large increases or decreases in credit losses
based on changes in economic conditions due to its close working relationships with the dealers and their financial strength.
Therefore, Cat Financial made no adjustments to historical loss rates during the year ended December 31, 2022.
Classes of finance receivables
Cat Financial further evaluates portfolio segments by the class of finance receivables, which is defined as a level of information
(below a portfolio segment) in which the finance receivables have the same initial measurement attribute and a similar method
for assessing and monitoring credit risk. Cat Financial's classes, which align with management reporting for credit losses, are as
follows:
• North America - Finance receivables originated in the United States and Canada.
• EAME - Finance receivables originated in Europe, Africa, the Middle East and the Commonwealth of
Independent States.
• Asia/Pacific - Finance receivables originated in Australia, New Zealand, China, Japan, Southeast Asia and India.
• Mining - Finance receivables related to large mining customers worldwide.
• Latin America - Finance receivables originated in Mexico and Central and South American countries.
• Caterpillar Power Finance - Finance receivables originated worldwide related to marine vessels with Caterpillar
engines and Caterpillar electrical power generation, gas compression and co-generation systems and non-
Caterpillar equipment that is powered by these systems.
81
Table of Contents
Receivable balances, including accrued interest, are written off against the allowance for credit losses when, in the judgment of
management, they are considered uncollectible (generally upon repossession of the collateral). Generally, the amount of the
write-off is determined by comparing the fair value of the collateral, less cost to sell, to the amortized cost. Subsequent
recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance for credit losses when received.
An analysis of the allowance for credit losses was as follows:
(Millions of dollars) December  31, 2022 December  31, 2021
Customer Dealer Total Customer Dealer Total
Allowance for  Credit Losses:    
Beginning balance $ 251 $ 82 $ 333 $ 431 $ 44 $ 475 
Write-of fs (108) — (108) (256) — (256)
Recoveries 62 — 62 51 — 51 
Provision for credit losses 75 (17) 58 30 38 68 
Other (3) — (3) (5) — (5)
Ending balance $ 277 $ 65 $ 342 $ 251 $ 82 $ 333 
Finance Receivables $ 19,772  $ 1,585  $ 21,357  $ 20,135  $ 1,793  $ 21,928  
Credit quality of finance receivables
 
At origination, Cat Financial evaluates credit risk based on a variety of credit quality factors including prior payment experience,
customer financial information, credit ratings, loan-to-value ratios, probabilities of default, industry trends, macroeconomic
factors and other internal metrics. On an ongoing basis, Cat Financial monitors credit quality based on past-due status as there is
a meaningful correlation between the past-due status of customers and the risk of loss. In determining past-due status, Cat
Financial considers the entire finance receivable past due when any installment is over 30 days past due.
Customer
The tables below summarize the aging category of Cat Financial's amortized cost of finance receivables in the Customer portfolio
segment by origination year:
82
Table of Contents
      
 (Millions of dollars) December  31, 2022
2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 PriorRevolving
Finance
ReceivablesTotal
Finance
Receivables
North America
      
Current $3,915  $3,276  $1,525  $ 653 $206 $ 34 $ 240 $ 9,849  
31-60 days past due 25 26 18 12 4 1 4 90 
61-90 days past due 9 15 7 3 1 — 3 38 
91+ days past due 11 16 12 6 4 3 4 56 
EAME
Current 1,270  953 477 280 155 68 — 3,203  
31-60 days past due 10 12 7 1 1 — — 31 
61-90 days past due 8 4 3 1 — — — 16 
91+ days past due 6 25 16 4 1 1 — 53 
Asia/Pacific
Current 1,033  684 313 69 18 2 — 2,119 
31-60 days past due 10 12 8 1 1 — — 32 
61-90 days past due 2 5 4 2 — — — 13 
91+ days past due 2 6 6 4 — — — 18 
Mining
Current 863 575 220 171 93 108 80 2,110 
31-60 days past due — 1 — — — — — 1 
61-90 days past due — — — — — — — — 
91+ days past due — — — — — 1 — 1 
Latin America
Current 770 400 150 69 26 20 — 1,435  
31-60 days past due 7 8 4 2 — 1 — 22 
61-90 days past due 2 5 1 1 — — — 9 
91+ days past due 2 13 11 2 1 — — 29 
Caterpillar Power
Finance
Current 78 85 142 33 18 161 125 642 
31-60 days past due — — — — — — — — 
61-90 days past due — — — — — — — — 
91+ days past due — — — — — 5 — 5 
Totals by Aging Category
Current 7,929  5,973  2,827  1,275  516 393 445 19,358  
31-60 days past due 52 59 37 16 6 2 4 176 
61-90 days past due 21 29 15 7 1 — 3 76 
91+ days past due 21 60 45 16 6 10 4 162 
Total Customer $8,023  $6,121  $2,924  $1,314  $529 $405 $ 456 $ 19,772  
83
Table of Contents
      
 (Millions of dollars) December 31, 2021
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 PriorRevolving
Finance
ReceivablesTotal Finance
Receivables
North America
      
Current $4,792  $2,596  $1,426  $ 630 $182 $ 32 $ 182 $ 9,840  
31-60 days past due 27 32 20 12 4 1 5 101 
61-90 days past due 7 8 5 3 1 1 5 30 
91+ days past due 9 17 12 13 5 4 5 65 
EAME
Current 1,499  836 577 352 140 26 — 3,430  
31-60 days past due 5 4 3 1 1 — — 14 
61-90 days past due 3 3 3 1 — — — 10 
91+ days past due 3 11 2 2 — 2 — 20 
Asia/Pacific
Current 1,271  803 307 71 16 2 — 2,470  
31-60 days past due 10 14 10 2 — — — 36 
61-90 days past due 3 7 4 1 — — — 15 
91+ days past due 2 10 10 3 — — — 25 
Mining
Current 851 347 307 193 36 161 36 1,931  
31-60 days past due 6 — — — — — — 6 
61-90 days past due 1 — — — 4 — — 5 
91+ days past due — 1 8 9 3 1 — 22 
Latin America
Current 617 299 160 70 17 18 — 1,181  
31-60 days past due 4 7 3 3 1 — — 18 
61-90 days past due 3 3 1 1 — — — 8 
91+ days past due 4 9 9 7 7 14 — 50 
Caterpillar Power Finance
Current 117 145 97 70 180 104 101 814 
31-60 days past due — — — — — — — — 
61-90 days past due — — — — — — — — 
91+ days past due — — — — — 44 — 44 
Totals by Aging Category
Current 9,147  5,026  2,874  1,386  571 343 319 19,666  
31-60 days past due 52 57 36 18 6 1 5 175 
61-90 days past due 17 21 13 6 5 1 5 68 
91+ days past due 18 48 41 34 15 65 5 226 
Total Customer $9,234  $5,152  $2,964  $1,444  $597 $410 $ 334 $ 20,135  
Finance receivables in the Customer portfolio segment are substantially secured by collateral, primarily in the form of Caterpillar
and other equipment. For those contracts where the borrower is experiencing financial difficulty, repayment of the outstanding
amounts is generally expected to be provided through the operation or repossession and sale of the equipment.
84
Table of Contents
Dealer
As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, Cat Financial's total amortized cost of finance receivables within the Dealer portfolio
segment was current, with the exception of $58 million and $78 million, respectively, that was 91+ days past due in Latin
America, all of which was originated in 2017.
Non-accrual finance receivables
Recognition of income is suspended and the finance receivable is placed on non-accrual status when management determines that
collection of future income is not probable. Contracts on non-accrual status are generally more than 120 days past due or have
been restructured in a troubled debt restructuring (TDR). Recognition is resumed and previously suspended income is recognized
when the collection of remaining amounts is considered probable. Payments received while the finance receivable is on non-
accrual status are applied to interest and principal in accordance with the contractual terms. Interest earned but uncollected prior
to the receivable being placed on non-accrual status is written off through Provision for credit losses when, in the judgment of
management, it is considered uncollectible.
In Cat Financial's Customer portfolio segment, finance receivables which were on non-accrual status and finance receivables
over 90 days past due and still accruing income were as follows:
    
December  31, 2022 December 31, 2021
 
Amortized Cost Amortized Cost
 (Millions of dollars)Non-accrual
With an
AllowanceNon-accrual
Without an
Allowance91+ Still
AccruingNon-accrual
With an
AllowanceNon-accrual
Without an
Allowance91+ Still
Accruing
    
North America $ 52 $ 4 $ 11 $ 47 $ 9 $ 12 
EAME 43 — 10 18 1 2 
Asia/Pacific 11 — 7 19 — 7 
Mining — 1 — 8 1 14 
Latin America 45 — — 52 4 1 
Caterpillar Power Finance 5 11 — 40 11 — 
Total $ 156 $ 16 $ 28 $ 184 $ 26 $ 36 
There was $17 million, $12 million and $12 million of interest income recognized during the years ended December 31, 2022,
2021 and 2020, respectively, for customer finance receivables on non-accrual status.
As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, finance receivables in Cat Financial's Dealer portfolio segment on non-accrual status were
$58 million and $78 million, respectively, all of which was in Latin America.
Troubled debt restructurings
 
A restructuring of a finance receivable constitutes a TDR when the lender grants a concession it would not otherwise consider to
a borrower experiencing financial difficulties. Concessions granted may include extended contract maturities, inclusion of
interest only periods, below market interest rates, payment deferrals and reduction of principal and/or accrued interest. Cat
Financial individually evaluates TDR contracts and establishes an allowance based on the present value of expected future cash
flows discounted at the receivable's effective interest rate, the fair value of the collateral for collateral-dependent receivables or
the observable market price of the receivable.
 
85
Table of Contents
There were no finance receivables modified as TDRs during the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 for the Dealer
portfolio segment. Cat Financial’s finance receivables in the Customer portfolio segment modified as TDRs for the years ended
December 31, were as follows: 
(Millions of dollars) Year ended December  31,
2022 Year ended December 31, 2021Year ended December 31,
2020
Pre-TDR
Amortized
CostPost-TDR
Amortized
CostPre-TDR
Amortized
CostPost-TDR
Amortized
CostPre-TDR
Amortized
CostPost-TDR
Amortized
Cost
Customer    
North America $ 6 $ 6 $ 6 $ 6 $ 13 $ 13 
EAME 1 1 3 3 — — 
Asia/Pacific — — 4 4 12 12 
Mining 16 16 11 5 35 35 
Latin America 22 22 12 12 45 45 
Caterpillar Power Finance 20 19 26 22 115 115 
Total $ 65 $ 64 $ 62 $ 52 $ 220 $ 220 
The Post-TDR amortized costs in the Customer portfolio segment with a payment default (defined as 91+ days past due) which
had been modified within twelve months prior to the default date, were as follows:
 
(Millions of dollars) Years ended December  31,
Customer 2022 2021 2020
North America $ — $ 1 $ 8 
EAME — — 10 
Asia/Pacific — 6 2 
Mining 5 — 10 
Latin America — 15 1 
Caterpillar Power Finance — 7 18 
Total $ 5 $ 29 $ 49 
8.     Inventories
 
Inventories (principally using the LIFO method) are comprised of the following:
 
 December  31,
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021
Raw materials $ 6,370  $ 5,528  
Work-in-process 1,452  1,318  
Finished goods 8,138  6,907  
Supplies 310 285 
Total inventories $ 16,270  $ 14,038  
86
Table of Contents
9.     Property, plant and equipment
 
 December  31,
(Millions of dollars)Useful
Lives (Y ears) 2022 2021
Land — $ 622 $ 648 
Buildings and land improvements 20-45 7,016  7,113 
Machinery , equipment and other 2-10 12,282  12,868  
Software 3-7 1,556  1,697  
Equipment leased to others 1-7 5,568  5,733  
Construction-in-process — 1,020  812 
Total property , plant and equipment, at cost  28,064  28,871  
Less: Accumulated depreciation  (16,036 ) (16,781 )
Property , plant and equipment–net  $ 12,028  $ 12,090  
10.  Intangible assets and goodwill
A.Intangible assets
 
Intangible assets were comprised of the following:
   December  31, 2022
(Millions of dollars)Weighted
Amortizable
Life (Y ears)Gross
Carrying
AmountAccumulated
Amortization Net
Customer relationships 16 $ 2,233  $ (1,675 )$ 558 
Intellectual property 12 1,473  (1,320 ) 153 
Other 16 132 (85) 47 
Total finite-lived intangible assets 14 $ 3,838  $ (3,080 )$ 758 
  December 31, 2021
Weighted
Amortizable
Life (Y ears)Gross
Carrying
AmountAccumulated
Amortization Net
Customer relationships 15 $ 2,421  $ (1,709 )$ 712 
Intellectual property 12 1,472  (1,192 ) 280 
Other 14 156 (106) 50 
Total finite-lived intangible assets 14 $ 4,049  $ (3,007 )$ 1,042  
 
Finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and tested for impairment if events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired.
Amortization expense related to intangible assets was $284 million, $302 million and $311 million for 2022, 2021 and 2020,
respectively.
87
Table of Contents
As of December 31, 2022, amortization expense related to intangible assets is expected to be: 
(Millions of dollars)
2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 Ther eafter
$226 $168 $159 $88 $25 $92
 
B.Goodwill
 
Our annual impairment tests completed in the fourth quarter of 2022 indicated the fair value of each reporting unit was
substantially above its respective carrying value, including goodwill, with the exception of our Rail reporting unit.
The Rail reporting unit is a part of our Energy & Transportation segment. Rail’s product portfolio includes diesel-electric
locomotives and other rail-related products and services. The annual impairment test completed in the fourth quarter of 2022
indicated that the fair value of Rail was below its carrying value. Accordingly, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of
$925 million, resulting in a full impairment of Rail’s goodwill balance as of October 1, 2022. There was a $36 million tax
benefit associated with this impairment charge. The valuation of the Rail reporting unit was based on estimates of future cash
flows, which assumed a reduced demand forecast, lower margins due to continued inflationary cost pressures, and a discount
rate approximately 140 basis points higher than utilized in the prior year valuation. The reduction in the demand forecast in the
fourth quarter of 2022 was primarily driven by fourth quarter commercial developments, resulting in a lower outlook for the
Company’s locomotive offerings.
There were no goodwill impairments during 2021 or 2020.
88
Table of Contents
The changes in carrying amount of goodwill by reportable segment for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 were as
follows:
(Millions of dollars)December  31,
2021 Acquisitions Impairment LossOther
Adjustments December  31,
2022
Construction Industries
Goodwill $ 302 $ — $ — $ (15)$ 287 
Impairments (22) — — — (22)
Net goodwill 280 — — (15) 265 
Resource Industries
Goodwill 4,182  — — (52) 4,130  
Impairments (1,175 ) — — — (1,175 )
Net goodwill 3,007  — — (52) 2,955  
Energy & Transportation
Goodwill 2,985  25 — (63) 2,947  
Impairment — — (925) — (925)
Net goodwill 2,985  25 (925) (63) 2,022  
All Other — 
Goodwill 52 — — (6) 46 
Impairment — — — — — 
Net goodwill 52 — — (6) 46 
Consolidated total
Goodwill 7,521  25 — (136) 7,410  
Impairments (1,197 ) — (925) — (2,122 )
Net goodwill $ 6,324  $ 25 $ (925)$ (136)$ 5,288  
December 31,
2020 Acquisitions Impairment LossOther AdjustmentsDecember 31,
2021
Construction Industries
Goodwill $ 320 $ 4 $ — $ (22)$ 302 
Impairments (22) — — — (22)
Net goodwill 298 4 — (22) 280 
Resource Industries
Goodwill 4,253  22 — (93) 4,182  
Impairments (1,175 ) — — — (1,175 )
Net goodwill 3,078  22 — (93) 3,007  
Energy & Transportation
Goodwill 2,959  49 — (23) 2,985  
All Other 
Goodwill 59 — — (7) 52 
Consolidated total
Goodwill 7,591  75 — (145) 7,521  
Impairments (1,197 ) — — — (1,197 )
Net goodwill $ 6,394  $ 75 $ — $ (145)$ 6,324  
Other adjustments are comprised primarily of foreign currency translation.
Includes All Other operating segment (See Note 23).1
2
1
2
1 
2 
89
Table of Contents
11.Investments in debt and equity securities
 
We have investments in certain debt and equity securities, which we record at fair value and primarily include in Other assets
in Statement 3.
We classify debt securities primarily as available-for-sale. We include the unrealized gains and losses arising from the
revaluation of available-for-sale debt securities, net of applicable deferred income taxes, in equity (AOCI in Statement 3). We
include the unrealized gains and losses arising from the revaluation of the equity securities in Other income (expense) in
Statement 1. We generally determine realized gains and losses on sales of investments using the specific identification method
for available-for-sale debt and equity securities and include them in Other income (expense) in Statement 1.
The cost basis and fair value of available-for-sale debt securities with unrealized gains and losses included in equity (AOCI in
Statement 3) were as follows:
Available-for -sale debt securities December  31, 2022 December 31, 2021
(Millions of dollars)Cost
BasisUnrealized
Pretax Net
Gains
(Losses)Fair
ValueCost
BasisUnrealized
Pretax Net
Gains
(Losses)Fair
Value
Government debt securities       
U.S. treasury bonds $ 9 $ — $ 9 $ 10 $ — $ 10 
Other U.S. and non-U.S. government
bonds 60 (5) 55 61 — 61 
Corporate debt securities       
Corporate bonds and other debt securities 2,561  (95) 2,466  1,027  19 1,046  
Asset-backed securities 187 (5) 182 175 1 176 
Mortgage-backed debt securities     
U.S. governmental agency 364 (31) 333 319 6 325 
Residential 3 (1) 2 4 — 4 
Commercial 127 (10) 117 98 1 99 
Total available-for -sale debt securities $ 3,311 $ (147)$ 3,164  $ 1,694  $ 27 $ 1,721  
90
Table of Contents
Available-for -sale debt securities in an unr ealized loss position:
 December  31, 2022
 Less than 12 months 12 months or  mor e Total
(Millions of dollars)Fair
ValueUnrealized
LossesFair
ValueUnrealized
LossesFair
ValueUnrealized
Losses
Government debt securities      
Other U.S. and non-U.S. government bonds $ 19 $ 1 $ 20 $ 4 $ 39 $ 5 
Corporate debt securities
Corporate bonds 1,815  46 357 50 2,172  96 
Asset-backed securities 75 2 55 3 130 5 
Mortgage-backed debt securities
U.S. governmental agency 229 16 98 15 327 31 
Residential 2 — 1 1 3 1 
Commercial 63 5 54 5 117 10 
$ 2,203  $ 70 $ 585 $ 78 $ 2,788  $ 148 
 December  31, 2021
 
Less than 12 months  12 months or  mor e Total
(Millions of dollars)Fair
ValueUnrealized
LossesFair
ValueUnrealized
LossesFair
ValueUnrealized
Losses
Corporate debt securities      
Corporate bonds $ 270 $ 4 $ 33 $ 1 $ 303 $ 5 
Mortgage-backed debt securities      
U.S. governmental agency 89 1 22 — 111 1 
Total $ 359 $ 5 $ 55 $ 1 $ 414 $ 6 
 Indicates the length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position.
The unrealized losses on our investments in government debt securities, corporate debt securities, and mortgage-backed debt
securities relate to changes in interest rates and credit-related yield spreads since time of purchase. We do not intend to sell the
investments, and it is not likely that we will be required to sell the investments before recovery of their respective amortized
cost basis. In addition, we did not expect credit-related losses on these investments as of December 31, 2022.
The cost basis and fair value of available-for-sale debt securities at December 31, 2022, by contractual maturity, are shown
below. Expected maturities will differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay and
creditors may have the right to call obligations.
December  31, 2022
(Millions of dollars) Cost Basis Fair Value
Due in one year or less $ 844 $ 834 
Due after one year through five years 1,642  1,568  
Due after five years through ten years 260 241 
Due after ten years 71 69 
U.S. governmental agency mortgage-backed securities 364 333 
Residential mortgage-backed securities 3 2 
Commercial mortgage-backed securities 127 117 
Total debt securities – available-for -sale $ 3,311 $ 3,164  
   1 1
1 1
1
91
Table of Contents
Sales of available-for -sale debt securities:
 Years Ended December  31,
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020
Proceeds from the sale of available-for -sale securities $ 767 $ 454 $ 290 
Gross gains from the sale of available-for -sale securities $ — $ 4 $ 2 
Gross losses from the sale of available-for -sale securities $ 5 $ — $ 1 
 
We did not have any investments classified as held-to-maturity debt securities as of December 31, 2022. We had $964 million
of investments in time deposits classified as held-to-maturity debt securities as of December 31, 2021. All these investments
mature within one year and we include them in Prepaid expenses and other current assets in Statement 3. We record held-to-
maturity debt securities at amortized cost, which approximates fair value.
For the years ended December 31 2022 and 2021, the net unrealized gains (losses) for equity securities held at December 31,
2022 and 2021 were $(49) million and $105 million, respectively.
12.Postemployment benefit plans
 
We provide defined benefit pension plans, defined contribution plans and/or other postretirement benefit plans (retirement
health care and life insurance) to employees in many of our locations throughout the world. Our defined benefit pension plans
provide a benefit based on years of service and/or the employee’s average earnings near retirement. Our defined contribution
plans allow employees to contribute a portion of their salary to help save for retirement, and in most cases, we provide a
matching contribution. The benefit obligation related to our non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans are for employees located
primarily in Europe, Japan and Brazil. For other postretirement benefits (OPEB), substantially all of our benefit obligation is
for employees located in the United States.
A. Obligations, assets and funded status
 
 U.S. Pension BenefitsNon-U.S. 
Pension BenefitsOther Postretirement 
Benefits
2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
Weighted-average assumptions used to
determine benefit obligation, end of
year:       
Discount rate 5.4 % 2.8 % 4.3 % 1.8 % 5.4 % 2.7 %
Rate of compensation increase — % — % 2.3 % 2.0 % 4.0 % 4.0 %
All U.S. pension benefits are frozen, and accordingly this assumption is no longer applicable.
We use the assumed discount rate to discount future benefit obligations back to today’s dollars.  The U.S. discount rate is based
on a benefit cash flow-matching approach and represents the rate at which our benefit obligations could effectively be settled
as of our measurement date, December 31.  The benefit cash flow-matching approach involves analyzing Caterpillar’s
projected cash flows against a high quality bond yield curve, calculated using a wide population of corporate Aa bonds
available on the measurement date.  We use a similar process to determine the assumed discount rate for our most significant
non-U.S. plans. This rate is sensitive to changes in interest rates. A decrease in the discount rate would increase our obligation
and expense.1
1 
92
Table of Contents
 U.S. Pension BenefitsNon-U.S. 
Pension BenefitsOther Postretirement 
Benefits
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
Accumulated benefit obligation, end of year $ 13,069  $17,895  $ 2,859  $ 4,311   
Change in benefit obligation:
Benefit obligation, beginning of year $ 17,895  $19,177  $ 4,436  $ 4,847  $ 3,736  $ 4,051  
Service cost — — 50 57 99 100 
Interest cost 401 330 69 53 80 64 
Plan amendments — — — — (29) — 
Actuarial losses (gains) (4,231 ) (610) (1,084 ) (142) (779) (211)
Foreign currency exchange rates — — (333) (154) — (15)
Participant contributions — — 5 4 43 48 
Benefits paid - gross (995) (996) (179) (184) (292) (310)
Less: federal subsidy on benefits paid — — — — 8 9 
Curtailments, settlements and termination
benefits (1) (6) (8) (45) — — 
Benefit obligation, end of year $ 13,069  $17,895  $ 2,956  $ 4,436  $ 2,866  $ 3,736  
Change in plan assets:
Fair value of plan assets, beginning of year $ 17,227  $17,589  $ 4,552  $ 4,731  $ 130 $ 147 
Actual return on plan assets (3,821 ) 595 (852) 99 (25) 34 
Foreign currency exchange rates — — (328) (139) — — 
Company contributions 46 45 54 84 246 211 
Participant contributions — — 5 4 43 48 
Benefits paid (995) (996) (179) (184) (292) (310)
Settlements and termination benefits (1) (6) (8) (43) — — 
Fair value of plan assets, end of year $ 12,456  $17,227  $ 3,244  $ 4,552  $ 102 $ 130 
Over  (under) funded status $ (613)$ (668)$ 288 $ 116 $ (2,764 )$ (3,606 )
Components of net amount r ecognized in
financial position:       
Other assets (non-current asset) $ 256 $ 592 $ 615 $ 538 $ — $ — 
Accrued wages, salaries and employee benefits
(current liability) (48) (45) (18) (16) (224) (240)
Liability for postemployment benefits (non-current
liability) (821) (1,215 ) (309) (406) (2,540 ) (3,366 )
Net (liability) asset recognized $ (613)$ (668)$ 288 $ 116 $ (2,764 )$ (3,606 )
Amounts r ecognized in Accumulated other
compr ehensive income (pr e-tax) consist of:
Prior service cost (credit) $ — $ — $ 20 $ 23 $ (29)$ (5)
All U.S. pension benefits are frozen, and accordingly there is no longer any service cost.
For 2022, Actuarial loss (gain) impacting the benefit obligation was primarily due to higher discount rates at the end of 2022 compared to the end of 2021. For
2021, Actuarial loss (gain) impacting the benefit obligation was primarily due to higher discount rates at the end of 2021 compared to the end of 2020.
The Liability for postemployment benefits reported in Statement 3 includes our liability for other postemployment benefits and our liability for non-qualified
deferred compensation plans. For 2022, these liabilities were $58 million and $475 million, respectively. For 2021, these liabilities were $67 million and $538
million, respectively.1
2
 3
1 
2 
3 
93
Table of Contents
 U.S. Pension BenefitsNon-U.S. 
Pension Benefits
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2022 2021
Pension plans with pr ojected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets:
Projected benefit obligation $ 10,413  $ 14,403  $ 606 $ 743 
Fair value of plan assets $ 9,544  $ 13,143  $ 280 $ 319 
Pension plans with accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets:
Accumulated benefit obligation $ 10,413  $ 14,403  $ 482 $ 603 
Fair value of plan assets $ 9,544  $ 13,143  $ 202 $ 234 
The accumulated postretirement benefit obligation exceeds plan assets for all of our other postretirement benefit plans for all years
presented.
94
Table of Contents
B. Net periodic benefit cost
 
 U.S. Pension Benefits Non-U.S. Pension Benefits Other Postretirement Benefits
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
Components of net
periodic benefit cost:          
Service cost $ — $ — $ — $ 50 $ 57 $ 55 $ 99 $ 100 $ 94 
Interest cost 401 330 483 69 53 68 80 64 103 
Expected return on plan
assets (669) (718) (791) (130) (128) (135) (12) (6) (12)
Curtailments, settlements
and termination
benefits — — (1) 1 (1) 30 — — — 
Amortization of prior
service cost (credit) — — — — — — (6) (40) (38)
Actuarial loss (gain) 259 (487) 162 (132) (115) 32 (733) (231) 189 
Net Periodic benefit cost
(benefit) $ (9) $(875) $(147) $(142) $(134) $ 50 $(572) $(113) $ 336 
Other  changes in plan
assets and benefit
obligations r ecognized in
other  compr ehensive
income (pr e-tax):          
Current year prior service
cost (credit) $ — $ — $ — $ (3) $ — $ 8 $ (30) $ — $ (7)
Amortization of prior
service (cost) credit — — — — — — 6 40 38 
Total recognized in other
comprehensive income — — — (3) — 8 (24) 40 31 
Total recognized in net
periodic cost and other
comprehensive income $ (9) $(875) $(147) $(145) $(134) $ 58 $(596) $ (73) $ 367 
Weighted-average
assumptions used to
determine net periodic
benefit cost:          
Discount rate used to
measure service cost — % — % — % 1.7 % 1.4 % 1.5 % 2.8 % 2.5 % 3.2 %
Discount rate used to
measure interest cost 2.3 % 1.8 % 2.8 % 1.7 % 1.2 % 1.7 % 2.2 % 1.6 % 2.8 %
Expected rate of return on
plan assets 4.0 % 4.2 % 5.1 % 3.1 % 2.9 % 3.3 % 6.9 % 6.5 % 7.0 %
Rate of compensation
increase — % — % — % 2.0 % 2.0 % 2.0 % 4.0 % 4.0 % 4.0 %
All U.S. pension benefits are frozen, and accordingly there is no longer any service cost and certain assumptions are no longer applicable.
Actuarial loss (gain) represents the effects of actual results differing from our assumptions and the effects of changing assumptions. We recognize actuarial
loss (gain) immediately through earnings upon the annual remeasurement in the fourth quarter, or on an interim basis as triggering events warrant
remeasurement.
The service cost component is included in Operating costs and all other components are included in Other income (expense) in Statement 1.
The weighted-average rates for 2023 are 5.8 percent and 5.2 percent for U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans, respectively.
The discount rates used in the determination of our service and interest cost components utilize a full yield curve approach
which applies specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the calculation of the benefit obligation to the relevant projected
cash flows.
 
Our expected long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets is based on our estimate of long-term passive returns for equities and
fixed income securities weighted by the allocation of our pension assets. Based on historical performance, we increase the
passive returns due to our active management of the plan assets. To arrive at our expected long-term return, the amount added
for active management was 0.30 percent for 2022, 0.35 percent for 2021 and 0.40 percent 2020.  We use a similar process to
determine this rate for our non-U.S. plans.1
2
3
1
 4
1
1 
2 
3 
4 
95
Table of Contents
The assumed health care trend rate represents the rate at which health care costs are assumed to increase. We assumed a
weighted-average increase of 5.6 percent in our calculation of 2022 benefit expense.  We expect a weighted-average increase
of 6.5 percent during 2023.  The 2023 rates are assumed to decrease gradually to the ultimate health care trend rate of 4.7
percent in 2030.
 C. Expected contributions and Benefit payments
The following table presents information about expected contributions and benefit payments for pension and other
postretirement benefit plans:
 
(Millions of dollars) 2023
Expected employer  contributions:    
U.S. Pension Benefits $ 47 
Non-U.S. Pension Benefits $ 69 
Other Postretirement Benefits $ 256 
Expected benefit payments: 2023 2024 2025 2026 20272028-
2032 Total
U.S. Pension Benefits $ 1,010  $ 1,000  $ 1,000  $ 1,000  $ 995 $ 4,820  $ 9,825  
Non-U.S. Pension Benefits $ 195 $ 170 $ 175 $ 185 $ 190 $ 1,020  $ 1,935  
Other Postretirement Benefits $ 265 $ 265 $ 260 $ 260 $ 255 $ 1,240  $ 2,545  
Expected Medicar e Part D
subsidy: $ 6 $ 5 $ 5 $ 5 $ 5 $ 20 $ 46 
 
The above table reflects the total expected employer contributions and expected benefits to be paid from the plan or from
company assets and does not include the participants’ share of the cost. The expected benefit payments for our other
postretirement benefits include payments for prescription drug benefits. The above table also includes Medicare Part D subsidy
amounts expected to be received by the company which will offset other postretirement benefit payments.
D. Plan assets
In general, our strategy for both the U.S. and non-U.S. pensions includes ongoing alignment of our investments to our
liabilities, while reducing risk in our portfolio. The current U.S. pension target asset allocation is 85 percent fixed income and
15 percent equities. We will revise this target allocation periodically to ensure it reflects our overall objectives. The non-U.S.
pension weighted-average target allocations are 79 percent fixed income, 12 percent equities, 5 percent real estate and 4
percent other.  The target allocations for each plan vary based upon local statutory requirements, demographics of plan
participants and funded status.  We primarily invest the non-U.S. plan assets in non-U.S. securities.
 
Our target allocation for the other postretirement benefit plans is 70 percent equities and 30 percent fixed income. 
 
We rebalance the U.S. plans to within the appropriate target asset allocation ranges on a monthly basis.  The frequency of
rebalancing for the non-U.S. plans varies depending on the plan. As a result of our diversification strategies, there are no
significant concentrations of risk within the portfolio of investments.
 
We permit the use of certain derivative instruments where appropriate and necessary for achieving overall investment policy
objectives.  The plans do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
 
The accounting guidance on fair value measurements specifies a fair value hierarchy based upon the observability of inputs
used in valuation techniques (Level 1, 2 and 3). Certain assets that are measured at fair value using the net asset value per share
(or its equivalent) practical expedient have not been classified in the fair value hierarchy. See Note 18 for a discussion of the
fair value hierarchy.
96
Table of Contents
 
We determine fair values as follows:
 
• Equity securities are primarily based on valuations for identical instruments in active markets.
• Fixed income securities are primarily based upon models that take into consideration such market-based factors
as recent sales, risk-free yield curves and prices of similarly rated bonds.
• Real estate is stated at the fund’s net asset value or at appraised value.
• Cash, short-term instruments and other are based on the carrying amount, which approximates fair value, or the
fund’s net asset value.
The fair value of the pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets by category is summarized below:
 
 December  31, 2022
(Millions of dollars)Level 1 Level 2 Level 3Measur ed at
NAVTotal Assets
at Fair  Value
U.S. Pension      
Equity securities:      
U.S. equities $ 1,098  $ 20 $ 26 $ 99 $ 1,243  
Non-U.S. equities 948 — 2 — 950 
Fixed income securities:     
U.S. corporate bonds — 5,460  40 37 5,537  
Non-U.S. corporate bonds — 1,244  — — 1,244  
U.S. government bonds — 2,904  — — 2,904  
U.S. governmental agency mortgage-backed
securities — 19 — — 19 
Non-U.S. government bonds — 118 — — 118 
Real estate — — 8 — 8 
Cash, short-term instruments and other 108 14 2 309 433 
Total U.S. pension assets $ 2,154  $ 9,779  $ 78 $ 445 $ 12,456  
97
Table of Contents
 December 31, 2021
(Millions of dollars)Level 1 Level 2 Level 3Measured at
NAVTotal Assets
at Fair Value
U.S. Pension     
Equity securities:     
U.S. equities $ 1,644  $ 25 $ 23 $ 149 $ 1,841  
Non-U.S. equities 1,398  — 2 — 1,400  
Fixed income securities:     
U.S. corporate bonds — 7,289  40 37 7,366  
Non-U.S. corporate bonds — 1,569  — — 1,569  
U.S. government bonds — 4,341  — — 4,341  
U.S. governmental agency mortgage-backed
securities — 24 — — 24 
Non-U.S. government bonds — 172 — — 172 
Real estate — — 7 — 7 
Cash, short-term instruments and other 228 60 — 219 507 
Total U.S. pension assets $ 3,270  $ 13,480  $ 72 $ 405 $ 17,227  
 December  31, 2022
(Millions of dollars)Level 1 Level 2 Level 3Measur ed at
NAVTotal Assets
at Fair  Value
Non-U.S. Pension     
Equity securities:     
U.S. equities $ 61 $ — $ — $ — $ 61 
Non-U.S. equities 208 28 — 21 257 
Global equities 26 10 — 17 53 
Fixed income securities:     
U.S. corporate bonds — 186 — — 186 
Non-U.S. corporate bonds — 631 — — 631 
U.S. government bonds — 66 — — 66 
Non-U.S. government bonds — 1,273  — — 1,273  
Global fixed income — 82 — 248 330 
Real estate — 198 — — 198 
Cash, short-term instruments and other 72 117 — — 189 
Total non-U.S. pension assets $ 367 $ 2,591  $ — $ 286 $ 3,244  1 
1 
2 
98
Table of Contents
 December 31, 2021
(Millions of dollars)Level 1 Level 2 Level 3Measured at
NAVTotal Assets
at Fair Value
Non-U.S. Pension     
Equity securities:     
U.S. equities $ 72 $ — $ — $ — $ 72 
Non-U.S. equities 266 32 — 37 335 
Global equities 31 15 — 46 92 
Fixed income securities:     
U.S. corporate bonds — 327 — — 327 
Non-U.S. corporate bonds — 889 — — 889 
U.S. government bonds — 152 — — 152 
Non-U.S. government bonds — 1,752  — — 1,752  
Global fixed income — 88 — 297 385 
Real estate — 225 — — 225 
Cash, short-term instruments and other 56 267 — — 323 
Total non-U.S. pension assets $ 425 $ 3,747  $ — $ 380 $ 4,552  
 Includes funds that invest in both U.S. and non-U.S. securities.
 Includes funds that invest in multiple asset classes, hedge funds and other.
 December  31, 2022
(Millions of dollars)Level 1 Level 2 Level 3Measur ed at
NAVTotal Assets
at Fair  Value
Other  Postr etirement Benefits     
Equity securities:     
U.S. equities $ 41 $ — $ — $ 2 $ 43 
Non-U.S. equities 16 — — 3 19 
Cash, short-term instruments and other 3 — — 37 40 
Total other postretirement benefit assets $ 60 $ — $ — $ 42 $ 102 
 December 31, 2021
(Millions of dollars) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3Measured at
NAVTotal Assets
at Fair Value
Other  Postr etirement Benefits     
Equity securities:     
U.S. equities $ 49 $ — $ — $ — $ 49 
Non-U.S. equities 17 — — — 17 
Cash, short-term instruments and other — 2 — 62 64 
Total other postretirement benefit assets $ 66 $ 2 $ — $ 62 $ 130 1 
1 
2 
1
2
99
Table of Contents
The activity attributable to U.S. pension assets measured at fair value using Level 3 inputs for the years ended December 31,
2022 and 2021 was insignificant. We valued these instruments using pricing models that, in management’s judgment, reflect
the assumptions a market participant would use.
E. Defined contribution plans
 
We have both U.S. and non-U.S. employee defined contribution plans to help employees save for retirement. Our primary U.S.
401(k) plan allows eligible employees to contribute a portion of their cash compensation to the plan on a tax-deferred basis.
Employees are eligible for matching contributions equal to 100 percent of employee contributions to the plan up to 6 percent of
cash compensation and an annual employer contribution that ranges from 3 to 5 percent of cash compensation (depending on
years of service and age).
These 401(k) plans include various investment funds, including a non-leveraged employee stock ownership plan (ESOP). As of
December 31, 2022 and 2021, the ESOP held 12.0 million and 12.4 million shares, respectively. We allocate all of the shares
held by the ESOP to participant accounts. Dividends paid to participants are automatically reinvested into company shares
unless the participant elects to have all or a portion of the dividend paid to the participant. Various other U.S. and non-U.S.
defined contribution plans generally allow eligible employees to contribute a portion of their cash compensation to the plans,
and in most cases, we provide a matching contribution to the funds.
 
Total company costs related to U.S. and non-U.S. defined contribution plans were as follows:
 
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020
U.S. plans $ 392 $ 440 $ 384 
Non-U.S. plans 114 114 89 
 $ 506 $ 554 $ 473 
13.Short-term borrowings
 
 December  31,
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021
Machinery , Ener gy & Transportation:   
Notes payable to banks $ 3 $ 9 
 3 9 
Financial Products:   
Notes payable to banks 234 213 
Commercial paper 5,455  4,896  
Demand notes 265 286 
 5,954  5,395  
Total short-term borrowings $ 5,957  $ 5,404  
 
The weighted-average interest rates on short-term borrowings outstanding were:
 December  31,
 2022 2021
Notes payable to banks 11.3 % 4.4 %
Commercial paper 4.2 % 0.1 %
Demand notes 3.4 % 0.2 %
 
100
Please refer to Note 18 for fair value information on short-term borrowings.
14. Long-term debt
 December  31,
(Millions of dollars)Effective Yield to
Maturity 2022 2021
Machinery , Ener gy & Transportation:   
Notes—$ 759 million of 5.200 % due 2041 5.27% $ 752 $ 752 
Debentures—$ 82 million of 8.000 % due 2023 8.06% — 82 
Debentures—$ 1,000  million of 3.400 % due 2024 3.46% 999 999 
Debentures—$ 193 million of 6.625 % due 2028 6.68% 192 192 
Debentures—$ 500 million of 2.600 % due 2029 2.67% 498 498 
Debentures—$ 800 million of 2.600 % due 2030 2.72% 794 793 
Debentures—$ 500 million of 1.900 % due 2031 2.04% 495 495 
Debentures—$ 242 million of 7.300 % due 2031 7.38% 240 240 
Debentures—$ 307 million of 5.300 % due 2035 8.64% 229 226 
Debentures—$ 460 million of 6.050 % due 2036 6.12% 456 456 
Debentures—$ 65 million of 8.250 % due 2038 8.38% 64 64 
Debentures—$ 160 million of 6.950 % due 2042 7.02% 158 158 
Debentures—$ 1,722  million of 3.803 % due 2042 6.39% 1,336  1,316  
Debentures—$ 500 million of 4.300 % due 2044 4.39% 493 493 
Debentures—$ 1,000  million of 3.250 % due 2049 3.34% 983 983 
Debentures—$ 1,200  million of 3.250 % due 2050 3.32% 1,186  1,185  
Debentures—$ 500 million of 4.750 % due 2064 4.81% 494 494 
Debentures—$ 246 million of 7.375 % due 2097 7.51% 241 241 
Finance lease obligations & other (112) 79 
Total Machinery , Ener gy & Transportation 9,498  9,746  
Financial Products:   
Medium-term notes 15,940  16,127  
Other 276 160 
Total Financial Products 16,216  16,287  
Total long-term debt due after one year $ 25,714  $ 26,033  
Effective yield to maturity includes the impact of discounts, premiums and debt issuance costs.
Redeemable at our option in whole or in part at any time at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the princ ipal amount or
(ii) the discounted present value of the notes or debentures, calculated in accordance with the terms of such notes or debentures.
Includes $( 168) million of mark-to-market adjustments related to fair value interest rate swap contracts entered into throughout 2022.
All outstanding notes and debentures are unsecured and rank equally with one another.
On March 12, 2021 we issued $500 million of 1.900% Senior Notes due 2031.
Cat Financial’s medium-term notes are offered by prospectus and are issued through agents at fixed and floating rates.
Medium-term notes due after one year have a weighted average interest rate of 2.3% with remaining maturities up to 5 years at
December 31, 2022.
 1
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
3
1    
2    
3    
101
Table of Contents
The aggregate amounts of maturities of long-term debt during each of the years 2023 through 2027, including amounts due
within one year and classified as current, are:
 December  31,
(Millions of dollars) 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027
Machinery , Ener gy & Transportation $ 120 $ 1,012  $ 10 $ 6 $ 4 
Financial Products 5,202  7,398  4,511 2,469  1,948  
 $ 5,322  $ 8,410  $ 4,521  $ 2,475  $ 1,952  
The above table includes $14 million of medium-term notes that can be called at par.
Medium-term notes of $900 million maturing in the first quarter of 2023 were excluded from the current maturities of long-
term debt in Statement 3 as of December 31, 2022 due to a $900 million issuance of medium-term notes on January 6, 2023
which mature in 2026. The preceding maturity table reflects the reclassification of $900 million from maturities in 2023 to
2026.
Interest paid on short-term and long-term borrowings for 2022, 2021 and 2020 was $959 million, $920 million and $1,089
million, respectively.
 
Please refer to Note 18 for fair value information on long-term debt.
15.Credit commitments
 
 December  31, 2022
(Millions of dollars)
ConsolidatedMachinery ,
Energy &
TransportationFinancial
Products
Credit lines available:    
Global credit facilities $ 10,500  $ 2,750  $ 7,750  
Other external 3,649  158 3,491  
Total credit lines available 14,149  2,908  11,241  
Less: Commercial paper outstanding (5,455 ) — (5,455 )
Less: Utilized credit (982) (3) (979)
Available credit $ 7,712  $ 2,905  $ 4,807  
 
We have three global credit facilities with a syndicate of banks totaling $10.50 billion (Credit Facility) available in the
aggregate to both Caterpillar and Cat Financial for general liquidity purposes.  Based on management's allocation decision,
which can be revised from time to time, the portion of the Credit Facility available to ME&T as of December 31, 2022 was
$2.75 billion. Information on our Credit Facility is as follows:
 
•In September 2022, we entered into a new 364-day facility. The 364-day facility of $3.15 billion (of which $825 million is
available to ME&T) expires in August 2023.
•In September 2022, we amended and restated the three-year facility (as amended and restated, the "three-year facility").
The three-year facility of $2.73 billion (of which $715 million is available to ME&T) expires in August 2025.
•In September 2022, we amended and restated the five-year facility (as amended and restated, the "five-year facility") The
five-year facility of $4.62 billion (of which $1.21 billion is available to ME&T) expires in September 2027.
102
Table of Contents
Other consolidated credit lines with banks as of December 31, 2022 totaled $3.65 billion. These committed and uncommitted
credit lines, which may be eligible for renewal at various future dates or have no specified expiration date, are used primarily
by our subsidiaries for local funding requirements.  Caterpillar or Cat Financial may guarantee subsidiary borrowings under
these lines.
At December 31, 2022, Caterpillar’s consolidated net worth was $15.93 billion, which was above the $9.00 billion required
under the Credit Facility.  The consolidated net worth is defined as the consolidated shareholders’ equity including preferred
stock but excluding the pension and other postretirement benefits balance within AOCI.
At December 31, 2022, Cat Financial’s covenant interest coverage ratio was 2.36 to 1.  This was above the 1.15 to 1 minimum
ratio, calculated as (1) profit excluding income taxes, interest expense and net gain/(loss) from interest rate derivatives to
(2) interest expense calculated at the end of each calendar quarter for the rolling four quarter period then most recently ended,
required by the Credit Facility.
In addition, at December 31, 2022, Cat Financial’s six-month covenant leverage ratio was 7.05 to 1 and year-end covenant
leverage ratio was 7.21 to 1.  This was below the maximum ratio of debt to net worth of 10 to 1, calculated (1) on a monthly
basis as the average of the leverage ratios determined on the last day of each of the six preceding calendar months and (2) at
each December 31, required by the Credit Facility.
In the event Caterpillar or Cat Financial does not meet one or more of their respective financial covenants under the Credit
Facility in the future (and are unable to obtain a consent or waiver), the syndicate of banks may terminate the commitments
allocated to the party that does not meet its covenants.  Additionally, in such event, certain of Cat Financial’s other lenders
under other loan agreements where similar financial covenants or cross default provisions are applicable may, at their election,
choose to pursue remedies under those loan agreements, including accelerating the repayment of outstanding borrowings.  At
December 31, 2022, there were no borrowings under the Credit Facility.
 
16.Profit per share
 
Computations of pr ofit per  shar e:
(Dollars in millions except per  shar e data) 2022 2021 2020
Profit for the period (A) $ 6,705  $ 6,489  $ 2,998  
Determination of shares (in millions):    
Weighted average number of common shares outstanding (B) 526.9  544.0  544.1  
Shares issuable on exercise of stock awards, net of shares assumed to be
purchased out of proceeds at average market price3.5 4.5 4.5 
Average common shares outstanding for fully diluted computation (C) 530.4  548.5  548.6  
Profit per share of common stock:    
Assuming no dilution (A/B) $ 12.72  $ 11.93 $ 5.51 
Assuming full dilution (A/C) $ 12.64  $ 11.83 $ 5.46 
Shares outstanding as of December 31 (in millions) 516.3  535.9  545.3  
Profit attributable to common shareholders.
Diluted by assumed exercise of stock-based compensation awards using the treasury stock method.
For the year ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, we excluded 2.0 million, 1.1 million and 4.6 million outstanding stock
options, respectively, from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would have been antidilutive.
In July 2018, the Board approved a share repurchase authorization (the 2018 Authorization) of up to $10.0 billion of Caterpillar
common stock effective January 1, 2019, with no expiration. In May 2022, the Board approved a new share repurchase
authorization (the 2022 Authorization) of up to $15.0 billion of Caterpillar common stock effective August 1, 2022, with no
expiration. Utilization of the 2022 Authorization for all share repurchases commenced on August 1, 2022, leaving $70 million
unutilized under the 2018 Authorization. As of December 31, 2022, approximately $12.8 billion remained available under the
2022 Authorization. 1 
2
2
1
2
103
Table of Contents
During 2022, 2021 and 2020, we repurchased 21.9 million, 13.0 million and 10.1 million shares of Caterpillar common stock,
respectively, at an aggregate cost of $4.2 billion, $2.7 billion and $1.3 billion respectively. We made these purchases through a
combination of accelerated stock repurchase agreements with third-party financial institutions and open market transactions.
17.Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
We present comprehensive income and its components in Statement 2. Changes in the balances for each component of
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows:
104
Table of Contents
(Millions of dollars)
2022 2021 2020
Foreign curr ency translation:
Beginning balance $ (1,508)$ (910)$ (1,487)
Gains (losses) on foreign currency translation (794) (559) 513 
Less: Tax provision /(benefit) 26 41 (42)
Net gains (losses) on foreign currency translation (820) (600) 555 
(Gains) losses reclassified to earnings — 2 22 
Less: Tax provision /(benefit) — — — 
Net (gains) losses reclassified to earnings — 2 22 
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax (820) (598) 577 
Ending balance $ (2,328)$ (1,508)$ (910)
Pension and other  postr etirement benefits
Beginning balance $ (62)$ (32)$ (3)
Current year prior service credit (cost) 33 — (1)
Less: Tax provision /(benefit) 5 — — 
Net current year prior service credit (cost) 28 — (1)
Amortization of prior service (credit) cost (6) (40) (38)
Less: Tax provision /(benefit) (1) (10) (10)
Net amortization of prior service (credit) cost (5) (30) (28)
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax 23 (30) (29)
Ending balance $ (39)$ (62)$ (32)
Derivative financial instruments
Beginning balance $ (3)$ — $ (97)
Gains (losses) deferred 375 195 (116)
Less: Tax provision /(benefit) 86 21 (25)
Net gains (losses) deferred 289 174 (91)
(Gains) losses reclassified to earnings (340) (196) 241 
Less: Tax provision /(benefit) (82) (19) 53 
Net (gains) losses reclassified to earnings (258) (177) 188 
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax 31 (3) 97 
Ending balance $ 28 $ (3)$ — 
Available-for -sale securities
Beginning balance $ 20 $ 54 $ 20 
Gains (losses) deferred (179) (39) 45 
Less: Tax provision /(benefit) (37) (8) 10 
Net gains (losses) deferred (142) (31) 35 
(Gains) losses reclassified to earnings 5 (4) (1)
Less: Tax provision /(benefit) 1 (1) — 
Net (gains) losses reclassified to earnings 4 (3) (1)
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax (138) (34) 34 
Ending balance $ (118)$ 20 $ 54 
Total AOCI Ending Balance at December 31 $ (2,457)$ (1,553)$ (888)
105
Table of Contents
18.Fair value disclosures
 
A.Fair value measurements
 
The guidance on fair value measurements defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to
transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants.  This guidance also specifies a fair value hierarchy based upon the observability of inputs used in
valuation techniques.  Observable inputs (highest level) reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while
unobservable inputs (lowest level) reflect internally developed market assumptions.  In accordance with this guidance, fair
value measurements are classified under the following hierarchy:
 
•Level 1 – Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets.
•Level 2 – Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in
markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs or significant value-drivers are
observable in active markets.
•Level 3 – Model-derived valuations in which one or more significant inputs or significant value-drivers are unobservable.
 
When available, we use quoted market prices to determine fair value, and we classify such measurements within Level 1.  In
some cases where market prices are not available, we make use of observable market based inputs to calculate fair value, in
which case the measurements are classified within Level 2.  If quoted or observable market prices are not available, fair value
is based upon valuations in which one or more significant inputs are unobservable, including internally developed models that
use, where possible, current market-based parameters such as interest rates, yield curves and currency rates.  These
measurements are classified within Level 3.
We classify fair value measurements according to the lowest level input or value-driver that is significant to the valuation.  We
may therefore classify a measurement within Level 3 even though there may be significant inputs that are readily observable.
 
Fair value measurement includes the consideration of nonperformance risk.  Nonperformance risk refers to the risk that an
obligation (either by a counterparty or Caterpillar) will not be fulfilled.  For financial assets traded in an active market (Level 1
and certain Level 2), the nonperformance risk is included in the market price.  For certain other financial assets and liabilities
(certain Level 2 and Level 3), our fair value calculations have been adjusted accordingly.
 
Investments in debt and equity securities
We have investments in certain debt and equity securities that are recorded at fair value.  Fair values for our U.S. treasury
bonds and large capitalization value and smaller company growth equity securities are based upon valuations for identical
instruments in active markets.  Fair values for other government debt securities, corporate debt securities and mortgage-backed
debt securities are based upon models that take into consideration such market-based factors as recent sales, risk-free yield
curves and prices of similarly rated bonds.
 
We also have investments in time deposits classified as held-to-maturity debt securities. The fair value of these investments is
based upon valuations observed in less active markets than Level 1. These investments have a maturity of less than one year
and are recorded at amortized costs, which approximate fair value.
In addition, Insurance Services has an equity investment in a real estate investment trust (REIT) which is recorded at fair value
based on the net asset value (NAV) of the investment and is not classified within the fair value hierarchy.
See Note 11 for additional information on our investments in debt and equity securities.
 
Derivative financial instruments
The fair value of interest rate contracts is primarily based on a standard industry accepted valuation model that utilizes the
appropriate market-based forward swap curves and zero-coupon interest rates to determine discounted cash flows. The fair
value of foreign currency and commodity forward, option and cross currency contracts is based on standard industry accepted
valuation models that discount cash flows resulting from the differential between the contract price and the market-based
forward rate.
106
Table of Contents
See Note 4 for additional information.
Assets and liabilities measured on a recurring basis at fair value included in Statement 3 as of December 31, 2022 and 2021
were as follows:
 December  31, 2022
(Millions of dollars)
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3Measur ed at
NAVTotal
Assets / Liabilities,
at Fair  Value
Assets     
Debt securities     
Government debt securities     
U.S. treasury bonds $ 9 $ — $ — $ — $ 9 
Other U.S. and non-U.S.
government bonds — 55 — — 55 
Corporate debt securities    
Corporate bonds and other debt
securities — 2,416  50 — 2,466  
Asset-backed securities — 182 — — 182 
Mortgage-backed debt securities    
U.S. governmental agency — 333 — — 333 
Residential — 2 — — 2 
Commercial — 117 — — 117 
Total debt securities 9 3,105  50 — 3,164  
Equity securities  
Large capitalization value 203 — — — 203 
Smaller company growth 31 — — — 31 
REIT — — — 207 207 
Total equity securities 234 — — 207 441 
Derivative financial instruments - assets
Foreign currency contracts - net — 328 — — 328 
Commodity contracts - net — 15 — — 15 
Total assets $ 243 $ 3,448  $ 50 $ 207 $ 3,948  
Liabilities     
Derivative financial instruments -
liabilities
Interest rate contracts - net — 195 — — 195 
Total liabilities $ — $ 195 $ — $ — $ 195 
107
Table of Contents
 December 31, 2021
(Millions of dollars)
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3Measured at
NAVTotal
 Assets / Liabilities,
 at Fair Value
Assets     
Debt securities     
Government debt securities     
U.S. treasury bonds $ 10 $ — $ — $ — $ 10 
Other U.S. and non-U.S. government
bonds — 61 — — 61 
Corporate debt securities     
Corporate bonds and other debt
securities — 1,046  — — 1,046  
Asset-backed securities — 176 — — 176 
Mortgage-backed debt securities     
U.S. governmental agency — 325 — — 325 
Residential — 4 — — 4 
Commercial — 99 — — 99 
Total debt securities 10 1,711 — — 1,721  
Equity securities     
Large capitalization value 217 — — — 217 
Smaller company growth 98 — — — 98 
REIT — — — 167 167 
Total equity securities 315 — — 167 482 
Derivative financial instruments - assets
Foreign currency contracts - net — 168 — — 168 
Interest rate contracts - net — 23 — — 23 
Commodity contracts - net — 21 — — 21 
Total Assets $ 325 $ 1,923  $ — $ 167 $ 2,415  
In addition to the amounts above, certain Cat Financial loans are subject to measurement at fair value on a nonrecurring basis
and are classified as Level 3 measurements. A loan is measured at fair value when management determines that collection of
contractual amounts due is not probable and the loan is individually evaluated. In these cases, an allowance for credit losses
may be established based either on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the receivables’ effective
interest rate, the fair value of the collateral for collateral-dependent receivables, or the observable market price of the
receivable. In determining collateral value, Cat Financial estimates the current fair market value of the collateral less selling
costs. Cat Financial had loans carried at fair value of $68 million and $100 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021,
respectively.  
 
B.Fair values of financial instruments
 
In addition to the methods and assumptions we use to record the fair value of financial instruments as discussed in the Fair
value measurements section above, we use the following methods and assumptions to estimate the fair value of our financial
instruments:
 
Cash and cash equivalents
Carrying amount approximates fair value. We classify cash and cash equivalents as Level 1. See Statement 3.
 
Restricted cash and short-term investments
Carrying amount approximates fair value.  We include restricted cash and short-term investments in Prepaid expenses and
other current assets in Statement 3. We classify these instruments as Level 1 except for time deposits which are Level 2, and
certain corporate debt securities which are Level 3. See Note 11 for additional information.
 
108
Table of Contents
Finance receivables
We estimate fair value by discounting the future cash flows using current rates, representative of receivables with similar
remaining maturities.
 
Wholesale inventory receivables
We estimate fair value by discounting the future cash flows using current rates, representative of receivables with similar
remaining maturities.
 
Short-term borrowings
Carrying amount approximates fair value. We classify short-term borrowings as Level 1. See Note 13 for additional
information.
 
Long-term debt
We estimate fair value for fixed and floating rate debt based on quoted market prices.
Guarantees
The fair value of guarantees is based upon our estimate of the premium a market participant would require to issue the same
guarantee in a stand-alone arms-length transaction with an unrelated party. If quoted or observable market prices are not
available, fair value is based upon internally developed models that utilize current market-based assumptions. We classify
guarantees as Level 3. See Note 21 for additional information.
 
Our financial instruments not carried at fair value were as follows:
 
 2022 2021
 
(Millions of dollars)Carrying
AmountFair
ValueCarrying
AmountFair
ValueFair Value
Levels Reference
Assets at December 31,
     
Finance receivables–net (excluding finance leases
) $ 13,965 $ 13,377 $ 13,837 $ 13,836 3 Notes 7 & 19
Wholesale inventory receivables–net (excluding
finance leases ) 827 778 773 753 3 Notes 7 & 19
Liabilities at December 31,
     
Long-term debt (including amounts due within one
year):
     
Machinery, Energy & Transportation 9,618 9,240 9,791 12,420 2 Note 14
Financial Products 21,418 20,686 22,594 22,797 2 Note 14
 
Represents finance leases and failed sale leasebacks of $7,325 million and $8,083 million at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
19.Concentration of credit risk
 
Financial instruments with potential credit risk consist primarily of trade and finance receivables and short-term and long-term
investments. Additionally, to a lesser extent, we have a potential credit risk associated with counterparties to derivative
contracts.
 
Trade receivables are primarily short-term receivables from independently owned and operated dealers and customers which
arise in the normal course of business. We perform regular credit evaluations of our dealers and customers. Collateral generally
is not required, and the majority of our trade receivables are unsecured. We do, however, when deemed necessary, make use of
various devices such as security agreements and letters of credit to protect our interests. No single dealer or customer
represents a significant concentration of credit risk.
 
Finance receivables and wholesale inventory receivables primarily represent receivables under installment sales contracts,
receivables arising from leasing transactions and notes receivable. We typically maintain a security interest in retail financed
equipment and, in some instances, wholesale financed equipment. We also typically require physical damage insurance
coverage on financed equipment. No single customer or dealer represented a significant concentration of credit risk.
 1
1
1
109
Table of Contents
Short-term and long-term investments are held with high quality institutions and, by policy, the amount of credit exposure to
any one institution is limited. Long-term investments, primarily included in Other assets in Statement 3, are comprised
primarily of available-for-sale debt securities and equity securities.
 
For derivative contracts, collateral is generally not required of the counterparties or of our company.  The company generally
enters into International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) master netting agreements within ME&T and Financial
Products that permit the net settlement of amounts owed under their respective derivative contracts.  Our exposure to credit
loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties is limited to only those gains that we have recorded, but for which
we have not yet received cash payment. The master netting agreements reduce the amount of loss the company would incur
should the counterparties fail to meet their obligations.  At December 31, 2022 and 2021, the maximum exposure to credit loss
was $644 million and $342 million, respectively, before the application of any master netting agreements.  
Please refer to Note 18 above for fair value information.
 
20.Leases
 
A. Lessee arrangements
We lease certain property, information technology equipment, warehouse equipment, vehicles and other equipment through
operating leases. We recognize a lease liability and corresponding right-of-use asset based on the present value of lease
payments. To determine the present value of lease payments for most of our leases, we use our incremental borrowing rate
based on information available on the lease commencement date. For certain property and information technology equipment
leases, we have elected to separate payments for lease components from non-lease components. For all other leases, we have
elected not to separate payments for lease and non-lease components. Our lease agreements may include options to extend or
terminate the lease. When it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option, we have included the option in the
recognition of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities. We have elected not to recognize right-of-use assets or lease liabilities
for leases with a term of twelve months or less.
Our finance leases are not significant and therefore are not included in the following disclosures.
The components of lease costs were as follows:
(Millions of dollars)
Years Ended December  31,
2022 2021 2020
Operating lease cost $ 187 $ 214 $ 204 
Short-term lease cost $ 59 $ 46 $ 50 
We recognize operating lease right-of-use assets in Other assets in Statement 3. We recognize the operating lease liabilities in
Other current liabilities and Other liabilities.
110
Supplemental information related to leases was as follows:
(Millions of dollars)
December  31, 2022 December 31, 2021
Operating Leases
Other assets $ 564 $ 625 
Other current liabilities $ 151 $ 158 
Other liabilities $ 428 $ 484 
Weighted average r emaining lease term
Operating leases 7 years 7 years
Weighted average discount rates
Operating leases 2 % 2 %
Maturities of operating lease liabilities were as follows:
(Millions of dollars) December  31, 2022
Amounts Due In
2023 $ 161 
2024 120 
2025 88 
2026 65 
2027 47 
Thereafter 146 
Total lease payments 627 
Less: Imputed interest (48)
Total $ 579 
Supplemental cash flow information related to leases was as follows:
(Millions of dollars)
Years ended December  31
2022 2021 2020
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities
   Operating cash flows from operating leases $ 178 $ 206 $ 201 
Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for lease obligations:
   Operating leases $ 123 $ 238 $ 178 
111
B. Lessor arrangements
We lease Caterpillar machinery, engines and other equipment to customers and dealers around the world, primarily through
Cat Financial. Cat Financial leases to customers primarily through sales-type (non-tax) leases, where the lessee for tax
purposes is considered to be the owner of the equipment during the term of the lease. Cat Financial also offers tax leases that
are classified as either operating or direct finance leases for financial accounting purposes, depending on the characteristics of
the lease. For tax purposes, Cat Financial is considered the owner of the equipment. Our lease agreements may include
options for the lessee to purchase the underlying asset at the end of the lease term for either a stated fixed price or fair market
value.
We determine the residual value of Cat Financial’s leased equipment based on its estimated end-of-term market value.  We
estimate the residual value of leased equipment at the inception of the lease based on a number of factors, including historical
wholesale market sales prices, past remarketing experience and any known significant market/product trends.  We also
consider the following critical factors in our residual value estimates: lease term, market size and demand, total expected
hours of usage, machine configuration, application, location, model changes, quantities, third-party residual guarantees and
contractual customer purchase options.
During the term of our leases, we monitor residual values.  For operating leases, we record adjustments to depreciation
expense reflecting changes in residual value estimates prospectively on a straight-line basis.  For finance leases, we recognize
residual value adjustments through a reduction of finance revenue over the remaining lease term.
See Note 7 for contractual maturities of finance lease receivables (sales-type and direct finance leases).
The carrying amount of equipment leased to others, included in Property, plant and equipment - net in Statement 3, under
operating leases was as follows:
December  31,
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021
Equipment leased to others - at original cost $ 5,568  $ 5,733  
Less: Accumulated depreciation (1,790 ) (1,870 )
Equipment leased to others - net $ 3,778  $ 3,863  
Payments due for operating leases as of December 31, 2022, were as follows:
(Millions of dollars)
2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 Ther eafter Total
$801 $526 $287 $129 $43 $26 $1,812
Revenues from finance and operating leases, primarily included in Revenues of Financial Products on Statement 1, were as
follows:
(Millions of dollars)
Year ended December  31
2022 2021 2020
Finance lease revenue $ 430 $ 485 $ 492 
Operating lease revenue 1,085  1,128  1,124  
Total $ 1,515  $ 1,613  $ 1,616  
We present revenues net of sales and other related taxes.  
112
Table of Contents
21.Guarantees and product warranty
 
Caterpillar dealer performance guarantees
We have provided an indemnity to a third-party insurance company for potential losses related to performance bonds issued on
behalf of Caterpillar dealers.  The bonds have varying terms and are issued to insure governmental agencies against
nonperformance by certain dealers.  We also provided guarantees to third-parties related to the performance of contractual
obligations by certain Caterpillar dealers. These guarantees have varying terms and cover potential financial losses incurred by
the third parties resulting from the dealers’ nonperformance.
In 2016, we provided a guarantee to an end user related to the performance of contractual obligations by a Caterpillar dealer.
Under the guarantee, which was set to expire in 2025, non-performance by the Caterpillar dealer could require Caterpillar to
satisfy the contractual obligations by providing goods, services or financial compensation to the end user up to an annual
designated cap. This guarantee was terminated during the first quarter of 2022. No payments were made under the guarantee.
Supplier consortium performance guarantee
We provided a guarantee to a customer in Europe related to the performance of contractual obligations by a supplier
consortium to which one of our Caterpillar subsidiaries was a member. The guarantee covered potential damages incurred by
the customer resulting from the supplier consortium's non-performance. The damages were capped except for failure of the
consortium to meet certain obligations outlined in the contract in the normal course of business. The guarantee expired during
the second quarter of 2022.
We have dealer performance guarantees and third-party performance guarantees that do not limit potential payment to end
users related to indemnities and other commercial contractual obligations. In addition, we have entered into contracts involving
industry standard indemnifications that do not limit potential payment. For these unlimited guarantees, we are unable to
estimate a maximum potential amount of future payments that could result from claims made.
No significant loss has been experienced or is anticipated under any of these guarantees. At December 31, 2022 and 2021, the
related recorded liability was $2 million and $5 million, respectively. The maximum potential amount of future payments that
we can estimate (undiscounted and without reduction for any amounts that may possibly be recovered under recourse or
collateralized provisions) and we could be required to make under the guarantees at December 31 was as follows:
 
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021
Caterpillar dealer performance guarantees $ 188 $ 747 
Supplier consortium performance guarantee 17 242 
Other guarantees 306 232 
Total guarantees $ 511 $ 1,221  
 
Cat Financial provides guarantees to purchase certain loans of Caterpillar dealers from a special-purpose corporation (SPC)
that qualifies as a variable interest entity.  The purpose of the SPC is to provide short-term working capital loans to Caterpillar
dealers.  This SPC issues commercial paper and uses the proceeds to fund its loan program.  Cat Financial receives a fee for
providing this guarantee. Cat Financial is the primary beneficiary of the SPC as its guarantees result in Cat Financial having
both the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the SPC’s economic performance and the obligation to
absorb losses, and therefore Cat Financial has consolidated the financial statements of the SPC.  As of December 31, 2022 and
2021, the SPC’s assets of $971 million and $888 million, respectively, were primarily comprised of loans to dealers, and the
SPC’s liabilities of $970 million and $888 million, respectively, were primarily comprised of commercial paper.  The assets of
the SPC are not available to pay Cat Financial’s creditors. Cat Financial may be obligated to perform under the guarantee if the
SPC experiences losses. No loss has been experienced or is anticipated under this loan purchase agreement.
 
113
Table of Contents
Cat Financial has commitments to extend credit to customers and Caterpillar dealers through lines of credit and other pre-
approved credit arrangements. Cat Financial applies the same credit policies and approval process for these commitments to
extend credit as we do for other financing. Collateral is not required for these commitments, but if credit is extended, collateral
may be required upon funding.  The amount of unused commitments to extend credit to Caterpillar dealers was $11.31 billion
at December 31, 2022. Cat Financial generally has the right to unconditionally cancel, alter, or amend the terms of these dealer
commitments at any time. The amount of unused commitments to extend credit to customers was $888 million at
December 31, 2022. A portion of these commitments is not expected to be fully drawn upon; therefore, the total commitment
amounts do not represent a future cash requirement.
 
We determine our product warranty liability by applying historical claim rate experience to the current field population and
dealer inventory.  Generally, we base historical claim rates on actual warranty experience for each product by machine
model/engine size by customer or dealer location (inside or outside North America).  We develop specific rates for each
product shipment month and update them monthly based on actual warranty claim experience.
The reconciliation of the change in our product warranty liability balances for the years ended December 31 was as follows:
 
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021
Warranty liability , beginning of period $ 1,689  $ 1,612  
Reduction in liability (payments) (778) (854)
Increase in liability (new warranties) 850 931 
Warranty liability , end of period $ 1,761  $ 1,689  
22. Environmental and legal matters
The Company is regulated by federal, state and international environmental laws governing its use, transport and disposal of
substances and control of emissions. In addition to governing our manufacturing and other operations, these laws often impact
the development of our products, including, but not limited to, required compliance with air emissions standards applicable to
internal combustion engines. We have made, and will continue to make, significant research and development and capital
expenditures to comply with these emissions standards.
We are engaged in remedial activities at a number of locations, often with other companies, pursuant to federal and state laws.
When it is probable we will pay remedial costs at a site, and those costs can be reasonably estimated, we accrue the
investigation, remediation, and operating and maintenance costs against our earnings. We accrue costs based on consideration
of currently available data and information with respect to each individual site, including available technologies, current
applicable laws and regulations, and prior remediation experience. Where no amount within a range of estimates is more likely,
we accrue the minimum. Where multiple potentially responsible parties are involved, we consider our proportionate share of
the probable costs. In formulating the estimate of probable costs, we do not consider amounts expected to be recovered from
insurance companies or others. We reassess these accrued amounts on a quarterly basis. The amount recorded for
environmental remediation is not material and is included in Accrued expenses. We believe there is no more than a remote
chance that a material amount for remedial activities at any individual site, or at all the sites in the aggregate, will be required.
On January 27, 2020, the Brazilian Federal Environmental Agency (“IBAMA”) issued Caterpillar Brasil Ltda a notice of
violation regarding allegations around the requirements for use of imported oils at the Piracicaba, Brazil facility. We have
instituted processes to address the allegations. While we are still discussing resolution of these allegations with IBAMA, the
initial notice from IBAMA included a proposed fine of approximately $300,000.  We do not expect this fine or our response to
address the allegations to have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations, financial position
or liquidity.
114
Table of Contents
On January 7, 2015, the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Central District of Illinois issued a grand jury subpoena to the Company
and thereafter issued additional subpoenas; these subpoenas sought information regarding, among other things, movements of
cash among U.S. and non-U.S. Caterpillar subsidiaries, the purchase and resale of replacement parts by Caterpillar Inc. and
non-U.S. Caterpillar subsidiaries, and Caterpillar SARL (CSARL) and related structures. On March 2-3, 2017, federal agents
executed search and seizure warrants, which concerned both tax and export activities, at three facilities of the Company in the
Peoria, Illinois area, including its former corporate headquarters. The Tax Division of the U.S. Department of Justice
conducted a review of the grand jury investigation and informed the Company on November 28, 2022 that it does not have a
pending criminal tax matter involving the Company. In January 2023, the government began returning to the Company the
documents and information seized under the search warrants, which, as noted, related to both tax and export issues, as well as
the documents and information the Company produced under the grand jury subpoenas.
In addition, we are involved in other unresolved legal actions that arise in the normal course of business. The most prevalent of
these unresolved actions involve disputes related to product design, manufacture and performance liability (including claimed
asbestos exposure), contracts, employment issues, environmental matters, intellectual property rights, taxes (other than income
taxes) and securities laws. The aggregate range of reasonably possible losses in excess of accrued liabilities, if any, associated
with these unresolved legal actions is not material. In some cases, we cannot reasonably estimate a range of loss because there
is insufficient information regarding the matter. However, we believe there is no more than a remote chance that any liability
arising from these matters would be material. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these
unresolved legal actions, we believe that these actions will not individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect
on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity.
23.          Segment information
 
A. Basis for segment information
 
Our Executive Office is comprised of a Chief Executive Officer (CEO), four Group Presidents, a Chief Financial Officer
(CFO), a Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel and a Chief Human Resources Officer. The Group Presidents and CFO are
accountable for a related set of end-to-end businesses that they manage.  The Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel leads
the Law, Security and Public Policy Division. The Chief Human Resources Officer leads the Human Resources Organization.
The CEO allocates resources and manages performance at the Group President/CFO level.  As such, the CEO serves as our
Chief Operating Decision Maker, and operating segments are primarily based on the Group President/CFO reporting structure.
 
Three of our operating segments, Construction Industries, Resource Industries and Energy & Transportation are led by Group
Presidents.  One operating segment, Financial Products, is led by the CFO who also has responsibility for Corporate Services.
Corporate Services is a cost center primarily responsible for the performance of certain support functions globally and to
provide centralized services; it does not meet the definition of an operating segment. One Group President leads one smaller
operating segment that is included in the All Other operating segment.  The Law, Security and Public Policy Division and the
Human Resources Organization are cost centers and do not meet the definition of an operating segment.
Segment information for 2021 and 2020 has been recast due to a methodology change related to how we assign intersegment
sales and segment profit from our technology products and services to Construction Industries, Resource Industries and Energy
& Transportation. This methodology change did not have a material impact on our segment results.
B. Description of segments
 
We have five operating segments, of which four are reportable segments. Following is a brief description of our reportable
segments and the business activities included in the All Other operating segment:
 
Construction Industries: A segment primarily responsible for supporting customers using machinery in infrastructure and
building construction applications. Responsibilities include business strategy, product design, product management and
development, manufacturing, marketing and sales and product support. The product portfolio includes asphalt pavers; backhoe
loaders; compactors; cold planers; compact track and multi-terrain loaders; mini, small, medium and large track excavators;
forestry machines; material handlers; motor graders; pipelayers; road reclaimers; skid steer loaders; telehandlers; small and
medium track-type tractors; track-type loaders; wheel excavators; compact, small and medium wheel loaders; and related parts
and work tools. Inter-segment sales are a source of revenue for this segment.
115
Table of Contents
Resource Industries: A segment primarily responsible for supporting customers using machinery in mining, heavy
construction and quarry and aggregates. Responsibilities include business strategy, product design, product management and
development, manufacturing, marketing and sales and product support. The product portfolio includes large track-type tractors;
large mining trucks; hard rock vehicles; longwall miners; electric rope shovels; draglines; hydraulic shovels; rotary drills; large
wheel loaders; off-highway trucks; articulated trucks; wheel tractor scrapers; wheel dozers; landfill compactors; soil
compactors; select work tools; machinery components; electronics and control systems and related parts. In addition to
equipment, Resource Industries also develops and sells technology products and services to provide customers fleet
management, equipment management analytics, autonomous machine capabilities, safety services and mining performance
solutions. Resource Industries also manages areas that provide services to other parts of the company, including strategic
procurement, lean center of excellence, integrated manufacturing, research and development for hydraulic systems,
automation, electronics and software for Cat machines and engines. Inter-segment sales are a source of revenue for this
segment.
Energy & Transportation: A segment primarily responsible for supporting customers using reciprocating engines, turbines,
diesel-electric locomotives and related services across industries serving Oil and Gas, Power Generation, Industrial and
Transportation applications, including marine- and rail-related businesses. Responsibilities include business strategy, product
design, product management, development and testing manufacturing, marketing and sales and product support. The product
and services portfolio includes turbines, centrifugal gas compressors, and turbine-related services; reciprocating engine-
powered generator sets; integrated systems and solutions used in the electric power generation industry; reciprocating engines,
drivetrain and integrated systems and solutions for the marine and oil and gas industries; reciprocating engines, drivetrain and
integrated systems and solutions supplied to the industrial industry as well as Cat machinery; electrified powertrain and zero-
emission power sources and service solutions development; and diesel-electric locomotives and components and other rail-
related products and services, including remanufacturing and leasing. Responsibilities also include the remanufacturing of
Caterpillar reciprocating engines and components and remanufacturing services for other companies; and product support of
on-highway vocational trucks for North America. Inter-segment sales are a source of revenue for this segment.
 
Financial Products Segment:  Provides financing alternatives to customers and dealers around the world for Caterpillar
products and services, as well as financing for vehicles, power generation facilities and marine vessels that, in most cases,
incorporate Caterpillar products. Financing plans include operating and finance leases, installment sale contracts, repair/rebuild
financing, working capital loans and wholesale financing plans. The segment also provides insurance and risk management
products and services that help customers and dealers manage their business risk. Insurance and risk management products
offered include physical damage insurance, inventory protection plans, extended service coverage and maintenance plans for
machines and engines, and dealer property and casualty insurance. The various forms of financing, insurance and risk
management products offered to customers and dealers help support the purchase and lease of Caterpillar equipment. The
segment also earns revenues from ME&T, but the related costs are not allocated to operating segments. Financial Products’
segment profit is determined on a pretax basis and includes other income/expense items.
 
All Other operating segment:  Primarily includes activities such as: business strategy; product management and development;
manufacturing and sourcing of filters and fluids, undercarriage, ground-engaging tools, fluid transfer products, precision seals,
rubber sealing and connecting components primarily for Cat® products; parts distribution; integrated logistics solutions;
distribution services responsible for dealer development and administration, including one wholly owned dealer in Japan;
dealer portfolio management and ensuring the most efficient and effective distribution of machines, engines and parts; brand
management and marketing strategy; and digital investments for new customer and dealer solutions that integrate data
analytics with state-of-the-art digital technologies while transforming the buying experience. Results for the All Other
operating segment are included as a reconciling item between reportable segments and consolidated external reporting.
 
C. Segment measurement and reconciliations
 
There are several methodology differences between our segment reporting and our external reporting.  The following is a list of
the more significant methodology differences:
 
• ME&T segment net assets generally include inventories, receivables, property, plant and equipment, goodwill,
intangibles, accounts payable and customer advances. We generally manage at the corporate level liabilities other than
accounts payable and customer advances, and we do not include these in segment operations.  Financial Products
Segment assets generally include all categories of assets.
116
Table of Contents
 
• We value segment inventories and cost of sales using a current cost methodology.
• We amortize goodwill allocated to segments using a fixed amount based on a 20-year useful life.  This methodology
difference only impacts segment assets. We do not include goodwill amortization expense in segment profit. In
addition, we have allocated to segments only a portion of goodwill for certain acquisitions made in 2011 or later.
• We generally manage currency exposures for ME&T at the corporate level and do not include in segment profit the
effects of changes in exchange rates on results of operations within the year.  We report the net difference created in
the translation of revenues and costs between exchange rates used for U.S. GAAP reporting and exchange rates used
for segment reporting as a methodology difference.
• We do not include stock-based compensation expense in segment profit.
• Postretirement benefit expenses are split; segments are generally responsible for service costs, with the remaining
elements of net periodic benefit cost included as a methodology difference.
• We determine ME&T segment profit on a pretax basis and exclude interest expense and most other income/expense
items.  We determine Financial Products Segment profit on a pretax basis and include other income/expense items.
Reconciling items are created based on accounting differences between segment reporting and our consolidated external
reporting. Please refer to pages 118 to 120 for financial information regarding significant reconciling items.  Most of our
reconciling items are self-explanatory given the above explanations.  For the reconciliation of profit, we have grouped the
reconciling items as follows:
 
• Corporate costs:  These costs are related to corporate requirements primarily for compliance and legal functions for
the benefit of the entire organization.
• Restructuring costs: May include costs for employee separation, long-lived asset impairments and contract
terminations. These costs are included in Other operating (income) expenses except for defined-benefit plan
curtailment losses and special termination benefits, which are included in Other income (expense). Restructuring costs
also include other exit-related costs, which may consist of accelerated depreciation, inventory write-downs, building
demolition, equipment relocation and project management costs and LIFO inventory decrement benefits from
inventory liquidations at closed facilities, all of which are primarily included in Cost of goods sold. Only certain
restructuring costs in 2020 were excluded from segment profit. See Note 25 for more information.
• Methodology differences:  See previous discussion of significant accounting differences between segment reporting
and consolidated external reporting.
• Timing:   Timing differences in the recognition of costs between segment reporting and consolidated external
reporting. For example, we report certain costs on the cash basis for segment reporting and the accrual basis for
consolidated external reporting.
For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, sales and revenues by geographic region reconciled to consolidated
sales and revenues were as follows:
117
Table of Contents
Sales and Revenues by Geographic
Region
(Millions of dollars) North
AmericaLatin
America EAMEAsia/
PacificExternal
Sales and
RevenuesIntersegment
Sales and
RevenuesTotal Sales
and
Revenues
2022    
Construction Industries $12,367  $ 2,843  $5,099  $4,818  $ 25,127  $ 142 $ 25,269  
Resource Industries 4,531  1,840  2,205  3,437  $ 12,013  301 12,314  
Energy & Transportation 9,175  1,784  5,232  3,146  $ 19,337  4,415  23,752  
Financial Products Segment 2,078  348 396 431 $ 3,253  — 3,253  
Total sales and revenues from reportable
segments 28,151  6,815  12,932  11,832  59,730  4,858  64,588  
All Other operating segment 64 2 (66) 145 145 305 450 
Corporate Items and Eliminations (234) (79) (52) (83) (448) (5,163 ) (5,611)
Total Sales and Revenues $27,981  $ 6,738  $12,814  $11,894  $ 59,427  $ — $ 59,427  
2021
Construction Industries $ 9,676  $ 1,913  $4,858  $5,547  $ 21,994  $ 112 $ 22,106  
Resource Industries 2,987  1,724  1,987  2,804  9,502  308 9,810  
Energy & Transportation 7,611 1,233  4,908  2,918  16,670  3,617  20,287  
Financial Products Segment 1,935  265 402 471 3,073  — 3,073  
Total sales and revenues from reportable
segments 22,209  5,135  12,155  11,740  51,239  4,037  55,276  
All Other operating segment 56 2 18 69 145 366 511 
Corporate Items and Eliminations (242) (51) (36) (84) (413) (4,403 ) (4,816 )
Total Sales and Revenues $22,023  $ 5,086  $12,137  $11,725  $ 50,971  $ — $ 50,971  
2020     
Construction Industries $ 7,365  $ 1,031  $3,466  $5,014  $ 16,876  $ 42 $ 16,918  
Resource Industries 2,286  1,253  1,570  2,337  7,446  460 7,906  
Energy & Transportation 6,843  932 4,448  2,441  14,664  2,806  17,470  
Financial Products Segment 1,930  257 392 465 3,044  — 3,044  
Total sales and revenues from reportable
segments 18,424  3,473  9,876  10,257  42,030  3,308  45,338  
All Other operating segment 27 4 26 56 113 354 467 
Corporate Items and Eliminations (237) (45) (44) (69) (395) (3,662 ) (4,057 )
Total Sales and Revenues $18,214  $ 3,432  $9,858  $10,244  $ 41,748  $ — $ 41,748  
 Includes revenues from Construction Industries, Resource Industries, Energy & Transportation and All Other operating segment of $478 million , $351 million and
$362 million in the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, Energy & Transportation segment sales by end user application were as
follows:
Energy & Transportation External Sales
(Millions of dollars)
2022 2021 2020
Oil and gas $ 5,330  $ 4,460  $ 3,701  
Power generation 4,940  4,292  3,963  
Industrial 4,426  3,612  2,945  
Transportation 4,641  4,306  4,055  
Energy & Transportation External Sales $ 19,337  $ 16,670  $ 14,664  1
1
1
1
118
Table of Contents
Reconciliation of Consolidated pr ofit befor e taxes:
  
(Millions of dollars)
2022 2021 2020
Profit from reportable segments:
Construction Industries $ 4,743  $ 3,732  $ 2,399  
Resource Industries 1,827  1,229  838 
Energy & Transportation 3,309  2,804  2,437  
Financial Products Segment 864 908 590 
Total profit from reportable segments 10,743  8,673  6,264  
Profit from All Other operating segment (11) (14) 28 
Cost centers (13) (4) (4)
Corporate costs (751) (699) (517)
Timing (309) (263) (106)
Restructuring costs (299) (90) (241)
Methodology dif ferences:
Inventory/cost of sales 413 122 4 
Postretirement benefit income (expense) 916 1,171  (173)
Stock-based compensation expense (193) (199) (202)
Financing costs (331) (449) (444)
Currency 23 258 (266)
Goodwill impairment char ge (925) — — 
Other income/expense methodology dif ferences (409) (267) (322)
Other methodology dif ferences (102) (35) (26)
Total consolidated profit before taxes $ 8,752  $ 8,204  $ 3,995  
Reconciliation of Assets:
(Millions of dollars) December  31,
2022 2021
Assets from reportable segments:
Construction Industries $ 5,168  $ 4,547  
Resource Industries 5,775  5,962  
Energy & Transportation 9,455  9,253  
Financial Products Segment 34,269  34,860  
Total assets from reportable segments 54,667  54,622  
Assets from All Other operating segment 1,828  1,678  
Items not included in segment assets:
Cash and cash equivalents 6,042  8,428  
Deferred income taxes 2,098  1,735  
Goodwill and intangible assets 4,248  4,859  
Property , plant and equipment – net and other assets 4,234  4,056  
Inventory methodology dif ferences (3,063 ) (2,656 )
Liabilities included in segment assets 12,519  10,777  
Other (630) (706)
Total assets $ 81,943  $ 82,793  
119
Table of Contents
Reconciliation of Depr eciation and amortization:
(Millions of dollars)
2022 2021 2020
Depreciation and amortization from reportable segments:
   Construction Industries $ 231 $ 237 $ 245 
   Resource Industries 368 403 418 
   Ener gy & Transportation 547 571 593 
   Financial Products Segment 734 772 773 
Total depreciation and amortization from reportable segments 1,880  1,983  2,029  
Items not included in segment depreciation and amortization:
All Other operating segment 229 243 267 
Cost centers 84 98 126 
Other 26 28 10 
Total depreciation and amortization $ 2,219  $ 2,352  $ 2,432  
Reconciliation of Capital expenditur es:
   
(Millions of dollars)
2022 2021 2020
Capital expenditures from reportable segments:
Construction Industries $ 271 $ 255 $ 213 
Resource Industries 237 199 125 
Energy & Transportation 756 627 495 
Financial Products Segment 1,141 1,218 1,100 
Total capital expenditures from reportable segments 2,405 2,299 1,933 
Items not included in segment capital expenditures:
All Other operating segment 219 182 156 
Cost centers 76 56 47 
Timing (54) (74) 19 
Other (47) 9 (40)
Total capital expenditures $ 2,599 $ 2,472 $ 2,115 
Enterprise-wide Disclosur es:
Information about Geographic Areas:
    Property , plant and equipment - net
 External sales and revenues December  31,
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020 2022  2021
Inside United States $ 24,368  $ 19,298  $ 16,269  $ 7,042   $ 7,035  
Outside United States 35,059  31,673  25,479  4,986  5,055  
Total $ 59,427  $ 50,971  $ 41,748  $ 12,028   $ 12,090  
 Sales of ME&T  are based on dealer or customer location. Revenues from services provided are based on where service is rendered.
 1
1
120
Table of Contents
24.    Acquisitions
SPM Oil & Gas
On February 1, 2021, Caterpillar completed the acquisition of varying equity interests and assets of the Weir Group PLC,
collectively known as SPM Oil & Gas (SPM). Headquartered near Fort Worth, Texas, SPM Oil & Gas produces a full line of
pumps, flow iron, consumable parts, wellhead and pressure control products that are offered via an extensive global network of
service centers. This acquisition, included in the Energy & Transportation segment, is consistent with our strategy of providing
our customers expanded offerings and services which will now be one of the broadest in the well service industry. The
purchase price, net of $22 million of acquired cash, was approximately $359 million.
We financed the transaction with available cash. Tangible assets as of the acquisition date were $520 million, recorded at their
fair values, and primarily included cash of $22 million, receivables of $106 million, inventories of $159 million, leased assets
of $105 million, and property, plant, and equipment of $117 million. Finite-lived intangible assets acquired of $23 million
included developed technology and trade names and will be amortized on a straight-line basis over a weighted-average
amortization period of approximately 8 years. Liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date were $192 million, recorded at
their fair values, and primarily included lease liabilities of $105 million and accounts payable of $33 million. Goodwill of
$30 million represented the excess of the consideration transferred over the net assets acquired. Assuming this transaction had
been made at the beginning of any period presented, the consolidated pro forma results would not be materially different from
reported results.
25. Restructuring costs
 
Our accounting for employee separations is dependent upon how the particular program is designed. For voluntary programs,
we recognize eligible separation costs at the time of employee acceptance unless the acceptance requires explicit approval by
the company. For involuntary programs, we recognize eligible costs when management has approved the program, the affected
employees have been properly notified and the costs are estimable.
Restructuring costs for 2022, 2021 and 2020 were as follows:
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020
Employee separations $ 77 $ 92 $ 271 
Contract terminations 1 2 2 
Long-lived asset impairments 6 (63) 38 
Other 215 59 43 
Total restructuring costs $ 299 $ 90 $ 354 
 Recognized in Other operating (income) expenses.
Represents costs related to our restructuring programs, primarily for inventory write-downs, accelerated depreciation, equipment relocation, project
management and building demolition, all of which are primarily included in Cost of goods sold.
The restructuring costs in 2022 were primarily related to actions across the company, including $193 million related to the Rail
division that was primarily inventory write-downs, and other strategic actions to address a small number of products. The
inventory write-downs were included in "Other" in the table above. The restructuring costs in 2021 were primarily related to
actions across the company including strategic actions to address a small number of products, which were partially offset by a
gain on the sale of a manufacturing facility that had been closed. The restructuring costs in 2020 were primarily related to
various voluntary and involuntary employee separation programs implemented across the company and strategic actions to
address a small number of products, which were partially offset by a gain on the sale of a manufacturing facility that had been
closed. Both the gains in 2021 and 2020 were included in Long-lived asset impairments in the table above.
On February 1, 2023, we closed on the divestiture of our Longwall business. As a result, we recorded a pre-tax loss of
approximately $600 million, of which $494 million was related to the release of accumulated foreign currency translation
associated with this divestiture. This loss, primarily non-cash, will be included in our first quarter 2023 restructuring costs and
is subject to the finalization of post-closing procedures.1
1
1
2
1
2 
121
Table of Contents
In 2022 and 2021, all restructuring costs were excluded from segment profit. In 2020, only certain restructuring costs were
excluded from segment profit. Restructuring costs included in segment profit were as follows:
(Millions of dollars) 2020
Construction Industries $ 13 
Resource Industries 19 
Energy & Transportation 55 
Financial Products Segment — 
The following table summarizes the 2022 and 2021 employee separation activity:
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021
Liability balance, beginning of period $ 61 $ 164 
Increase in liability (separation char ges) 77 92 
Reduction in liability (payments) (99) (195)
Liability balance, end of period $ 39 $ 61 
 
Most of the remaining liability balance as of December 31, 2022 is expected to be paid in 2023.
122
Table of Contents
Item 9.Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.
 
Not Applicable.
Item 9A.Controls and Procedures.
 
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
An evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation of the company’s management, including the Chief
Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the company's
disclosure controls and procedures, as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period
covered by this annual report.  Based on that evaluation, the CEO and CFO concluded that the company’s disclosure controls and
procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this annual report.
 
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management’s report on the company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022 is included on page 55 of
Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2022 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting
firm.  Their report appears on pages 56-57 of Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
 
During the last fiscal quarter, there has been no significant change in the company’s internal control over financial reporting that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Item 9B.Other Information.
 
Disclosures Required Pursuant to Section 13(r) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
During the three months ended March 31, 2022, Caterpillar Eurasia LLC, one of our affiliates, engaged in limited transactions or
dealings with the Federal Security Service of Russia (the “FSB”). Specifically, Caterpillar Eurasia LLC, from time to time, directly
or indirectly, made required submissions to and received regulatory authorizations from the FSB related to the importation of
software used in the on-board telematics and control systems of Caterpillar machines that were imported into Russia. Caterpillar
Eurasia LLC did not generate any net revenue or net profits from such approval activity and does not make any sales to or have
other dealings with the FSB. Caterpillar Eurasia LLC plans to continue these activities as long as it remains lawful to do so.
 
Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections.
Not Applicable.
PART III
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.
 
Identification of Directors and Business Experience
 
Information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the 2023 Proxy Statement.
 
Identification of Executive Officers and Business Experience
 
Information required by this Item appears in Item 1C of this Form 10-K.
 
Family Relationships
 
There are no family relationships between the officers and directors of the company.
 
Legal Proceedings Involving Officers and Directors
123
Table of Contents
 
If applicable, information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the 2023 Proxy Statement.
 
Audit Committee Financial Expert
 
Information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the 2023 Proxy Statement.
 
Identification of Audit Committee
 
Information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the 2023 Proxy Statement.
 
Shareholder Recommendation of Board Nominees
 
Information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the 2023 Proxy Statement.
 
Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act
 
If applicable, information required by this Item relating to compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act is incorporated by
reference from the 2023 Proxy Statement.
Code of Ethics
 
Our Worldwide Code of Conduct (Code), first published in 1974 and most recently updated in 2019, sets a high standard for
honesty and ethical behavior by every director and employee, including the principal executive officer, principal financial officer
and principal accounting officer.  The Code is posted on our website at www.Caterpillar.com/code. To obtain a copy of the Code at
no charge, submit a written request to the Corporate Secretary at 5205 N. O'Connor Boulevard, Suite 100, Irving, TX 75039. We
post on our website at www.Caterpillar.com/code any required amendments to or waivers granted under our Code pursuant to SEC
or New York Stock Exchange disclosure rules.
Item 11. Executive Compensation.
 
Information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the 2023 Proxy Statement. 
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.
 
Information required by this Item relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated by
reference from the 2023 Proxy Statement.
Information required by this Item relating to securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is included in the
following table:
Equity Compensation Plan Information
(as of December 31, 2022)
 
Plan category(a)
Number of securities to
be issued upon exercise
of outstanding options,
warrants and rights(b)
Weighted-
average
exercise
price of outstanding
options, warrants and
rights(c)
Number of securities
remaining available for
future issuance under
equity compensation
plans (excluding
securities reflected in
column (a))
Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 9,227,667 $ 142.85 31,334,705
Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders N/A N/A N/A
Total 9,227,667 $ 142.85 31,334,705
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.
 
Information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the 2023 Proxy Statement.
124
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services.
 
Our independent registered public accounting firm is PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Chicago, Illinois, Auditor Firm ID: 238.
Information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the 2023 Proxy Statement.
125
Table of Contents
PART IV
Item 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.
Exhibits:
3.1 Restated Certificate of Incorporation, effective February 3, 2021 (incorporated by reference from
Exhibit 3.2 to the Company's Form 8-K filed February 9, 2021)
3.2 Bylaws amended and restated as of June 8, 2022 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.1 to the
Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 14, 2022)
4.1 Indenture dated as of May 1, 1987, between Caterpillar Inc. and The First National Bank of Chicago,
as Trustee (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to Form S-3 filed February 19, 1997)
4.2 First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 1, 1989, between Caterpillar Inc. and The First
National Bank of Chicago, as Trustee (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.2 to Form S-3 filed
February 19, 1997)
4.3 Appointment of Citibank, N.A. as Successor Trustee, dated October 1, 1991, under the Indenture, as
supplemented, dated as of May 1, 1987 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.3 to Form S-3 filed
February 19, 1997)
4.4 Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 15, 1992, between Caterpillar Inc. and Citibank,
N.A., as Successor Trustee (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.4 to Form S-3 filed February 19,
1997)
4.5 Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 16, 1996, between Caterpillar Inc. and Citibank,
N.A., as Successor Trustee (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.5 to Form S-3 filed February 19,
1997)
4.6 Tri-Party Agreement, dated as of November 2, 2006, between Caterpillar Inc., Citibank, N.A. and U.S.
Bank National Association appointing U.S. Bank as Successor Trustee under the Indenture dated as of
May 1, 1987, as amended and supplemented (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.6 to the
Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006)
4.7 Form of 2.600% Senior Note due 2022 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's
Current Report on Form 8-K, filed June 25, 2012)
4.8 Form of 3.803% Rule 144A Global Debenture due 2042 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1
to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed August 28, 2012)
4.9 Form of 3.803% Regulation S Global Debenture due 2042 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.2
to Form 8-K, filed August 28, 2012)
4.10 Form of 3.803% Global Debenture due 2042 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.9 to Form S-4
filed on September 7, 2012)
4.11 Form of 3.40% Senior Note due 2024 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's
Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 8, 2014)
4.12 Form of 4.30% Senior Note due 2044 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's
Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 8, 2014)
4.13 Form of 4.75% Senior Note due 2064 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's
Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 8, 2014)
4.14 Form of 2.600% Senior Note due 2029 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's
Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 19, 2019)
4.15 Form of 3.250% Senior Note due 2049 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's
Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 19, 2019)
4.16 Form of 2.600% Senior Notes due 2030 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 9, 2020)
4.17 Form of 3.250% Senior Notes due 2050 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 9, 2020)
4.18 Form 1.900% Senior Notes due 2013 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 12, 2021)
4.19 Description of Securities (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.16 to the Company’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019)
10.1 Caterpillar Inc. 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan as amended and restated through second amendment,
dated August 22, 2013 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.6 to the Company's Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2013)*
10.2 Third Amendment to the Caterpillar Inc. 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan effective as of April 1, 2019
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2019)*
126
Table of Contents
10.3 Fourth Amendment to the Caterpillar Inc. 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan effective as of July 1, 2022
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended September 30, 2022)
10.4 Caterpillar Inc. 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan, amended and restated effective October 8, 2019
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2019)*
10.5 First Amendment to Caterpillar Inc. 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan, effective July 1, 2022
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended September 30, 2022)
10.6 Caterpillar Inc. Executive Office Annual Incentive Plan amended and restated October 8, 2019
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2019)*
10.7 Form of Stock Appreciation Right Award pursuant to the 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan, dated
March 5, 2012 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012)*
10.8 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Award pursuant to the 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan, dated
March 5, 2012 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.5 to the Company's Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012)*
10.9 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award pursuant to the 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan for awards
granted after 2017 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2018)*
10.10 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award for Directors pursuant to the 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan for
awards granted after 2017 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the Company’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018)*
10.11 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Award pursuant to the 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.9 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2014)*
10.12 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Award pursuant to the 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan for awards
granted after 2015 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.12 to the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015)*
10.13 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Award pursuant to the 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan for awards
granted after 2017 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2018)*
10.14 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Award pursuant to the 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan for awards
granted after 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2019)*
10.15 Addendum to Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Award pursuant to the 2006 and 2014 Long-Term
Incentive Plans for awards granted prior to March 4, 2019 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit
10.4 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 30, 2019)*
10.16 Form of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Award pursuant to the 2014 Long-Term Incentive
Plan for awards granted after 2017 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2018)*
10.17 Form of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Award pursuant to the 2014 Long-Term Incentive
Plan for awards granted after 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2019)*
10.18 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award pursuant to the 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan for awards
granted after 2021 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2022)*
10.19 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award for Directors pursuant to the 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan for
awards granted after 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2022)*
10.20 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Award pursuant to the 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2022)*
10.21 Form of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Award pursuant to the 2014 Long-Term Incentive
Plan for awards granted after 2021 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2022)*
127
Table of Contents
10.22 Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Retirement Plan (formerly known as the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental
Pension Benefit Plan), amended and restated effective January 1, 2020 (incorporated by reference
from Exhibit 10.17 to the Company's Annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2020)*
10.23 First Amendment to the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Retirement Plan, effective January 1, 2022
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.17 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2021)*
10.24 Second Amendment to the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Retirement Plan, effective July 1, 2022
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended September 30, 2022)*
10.25 Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Employees’ Investment Plan, amended and restated as of May 15, 2017
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2017)*
10.26 First Amendment to the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Employees' Investment Plan, effective as of
July, 24, 2017 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.22 to the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017)*
10.27 Second Amendment to the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Employees' Investment Plan, dated
December 14, 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018)*
10.28 Third Amendment to the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Employees' Investment Plan, effective January
1, 2022 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.21 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2021)*
10.29 Fourth Amendment to the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Employees' Investment Plan, effective as of
July 1, 2022 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-
Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2022)*
10.30 Caterpillar Inc. Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective July 1,
2018 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended June 30, 2018)*
10.31 First Amendment to the Caterpillar Inc. Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan dated January 22,
2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended March 31, 2019)*
10.32 Second Amendment to the Caterpillar Inc. Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan, effective as of July
1, 2022 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended September 30, 2022)*
10.33 Caterpillar Inc. Directors’ Charitable Award Program, as amended and restated effective April 1, 2008
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.7 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2008)*
10.34 Caterpillar Inc. Deferred Employees’ Investment Plan amended and restated as of May 15, 2017
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2017)*
10.35 First Amendment to the Caterpillar Inc. Deferred Employees' Investment Plan, effective as of July 24,
2017 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.27 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2018)*
10.36 Second Amendment to the Caterpillar Inc. Deferred Employees' Investment Plan, dated December 14,
2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.27 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2018)*
10.37 Third Amendment to the Caterpillar Inc. Deferred Employees' Investment Plan, effective as of January
1, 2022 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.28 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2021)*
10.38 Fourth Amendment to the Caterpillar Inc. Deferred Employees' Investment Plan, effective as of July 1,
2022 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended September 30, 2022)*
10.39 Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan amended and restated as of May 15, 2017
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.5 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2017)*
10.40 First Amendment to the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan, effective as of
July 24, 2017 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.28 to the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017)*
10.41 Second Amendment to the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan, dated
December 14, 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to the Company’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018)*
128
Table of Contents
10.42 Third Amendment to the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan effective January
1, 2019 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.32 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2019)*
10.43 Fourth Amendment to the Caterpillar Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan, effective as of
January 1, 2022 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.33 to the Company’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021)*
10.44 Fifth Amendment to the Caterpillar Inc. Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan, effective as of
July 1, 2022(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.7 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2022)*
10.45 Solar Turbines Incorporated Managerial Retirement Objective Plan, as amended and restated through
First Amendment, dated December 10, 2014 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.19 to the
Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014)*
10.46 Second Amendment to the Solar Turbines Incorporated Managerial Retirement Objective Plan,
effective January 1, 2022 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.35 to the Company’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021)*
10.47 Solar Turbines Incorporated Pension Plan for European Foreign Service Employees, as amended and
restated, effective January 1, 2015 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2015)*
10.48 First Amendment to the Solar Turbines Incorporated Pension Plan for European Foreign Service
Employees effective January 1, 2020 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.35 to the Company's
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019)*
10.49 Second Amendment to the Solar Turbines Incorporated Pension Plan for European Foreign Service
Employees effective January 1, 2022 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.38 to the Company’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021)*
10.50 Revised Letter Agreement by and between Caterpillar Inc. and Andrew Bonfield dated August 28,
2018 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.6 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended September 30, 2018)*
10.51 Mercer Super Trust CatSuper Special Arrangement Agreement between Caterpillar of Australia PTY
LTD and Robert Brian Charter dated June 26, 2007 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.38 to
the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 14, 2019)*
10.52 Mercer Super Trust CatSuper Special Arrangement Agreement, by and between Caterpillar of
Australia PTY LTD. and Robert Brian Charter dated April 4, 2018 (incorporated by reference from
Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2018)*
10.53 Time Share Agreement dated January 10, 2017 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.29 to the
Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed December 31, 2016)*
10.54 Credit Agreement (2022 364-Day Facility), dated September 1, 2022, among Caterpillar Inc.,
Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar International Finance Designated Activity
Company, and Caterpillar Finance Kabushiki Kaisha, certain financial institutions named therein,
Citibank, N.A., as agent, Citibank Europe PLC, UK Branch, as Local Currency Agent, and MUFG
Bank, Ltd. as Japan Local Currency Agent (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the
Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 6, 2022)
10.55 Local Currency Addendum to the 2022 364-Day Facility dated September 1, 2022, among Caterpillar
Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar International Finance Designated Activity Company, the
Local Currency Banks named therein, Citibank, N.A., as Agent, and Citibank Europe plc, UK Branch,
as Local Currency Agent (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Current
Report on Form 8-K filed September 6, 2022)
10.56 Japan Local Currency Addendum, dated as of September 1, 2022, to the Credit Agreement (2022 364-
Day Facility) (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Current Report on Form
8-K filed September 6, 2022)
10.57 Credit Agreement, Short-Term Facility, dated as of April 21, 2020, by and among Caterpillar Inc., and
Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation, the financial institutions named therein, Citibank, N.A.,
BofA Securities, Inc., JP Morgan Chase Bank, and Société Générale (incorporated by reference from
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 24, 2020)
10.58 Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (3-Year Facility) dated September 1, 2022, among the
Company, Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar International Finance Designated
Activity Company and Caterpillar Finance Kabushiki Kaisha, certain financial institutions named
therein, Citibank, N.A., as Agent, Citibank Europe plc, UK Branch, as Local Currency Agent, and
MUFG Bank, LTD., as Japan Local Currency Agent (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.4 to
the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 6, 2022)
10.59 Local Currency Addendum to the 3-Year Facility dated September 1, 2022, among Caterpillar
Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar International Finance Designated Activity Company, the
Local Currency Banks named therein, Citibank, N.A., as Agent, and Citibank Europe plc, UK Branch,
as Local Currency Agent (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.5 to the Company’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed September 6, 2022)
129
Table of Contents
10.60 Japan Local Currency Addendum to the 3-Year Facility dated September 1, 2022, among Caterpillar
Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar Finance Kabushiki Kaisha, the Japan Local Currency
Banks named therein, Citibank, N.A., as Agent, and MUFG Bank, Ltd., as Japan Local Currency
Agent (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.6 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed September 6, 2022)
10.61 Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (5-Year Facility) dated September 1, 2022, among the
Company, Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar International Finance Designated
Activity Company and Caterpillar Finance Kabushiki Kaisha, certain financial institutions named
therein, Citibank, N.A., as Agent, Citibank Europe plc, UK Branch, as Local Currency Agent, and
MUFG Bank, LTD., as Japan Local Currency Agent (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.7 to
the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 6, 2022)
10.62 Local Currency Addendum to the Five-Year Facility dated September 1, 2022, among Caterpillar
Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar International Finance Designated Activity Company, the
Local Currency Banks named therein, Citibank, N.A., as Agent, and Citibank Europe plc, UK Branch,
as Local Currency Agent (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Current
Report on Form 8-K, filed September 6, 2022)
10.63 Japan Local Currency Addendum to the 5-Year Facility dated September 1, 2022, among Caterpillar
Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar Finance Kabushiki Kaisha, the Japan Local Currency
Banks named therein, Citibank, N.A., as Agent, and MUFG Bank, Ltd., as Japan Local Currency
Agent (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K,
filed September 6, 2022)
10.64 Consulting Agreement between William P. Ainsworth and Caterpillar Inc., dated January 26, 2021
(incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed
May 5, 2021)
21 Subsidiaries and Affiliates of the Registrant
23 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
31.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer of Caterpillar Inc., pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act of 2002
31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer of Caterpillar Inc., pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act of 2002
32 Certification of Chief Executive Officer of Caterpillar Inc. and Chief Financial Officer of Caterpillar
Inc., pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
101.INSInline XBRL Instance Document (the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File
because its XBRL tags are imbedded within the Inline XBRL document)
101.SCHInline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document
101.CALInline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document
101.DEFInline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document
101.LABInline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document
101.PREInline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document
104 Cover Page Interactive File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document and included in Exhibit
101)
_________________________________________
*Management contracts and compensatory plans and arrangements required to be filed as exhibits pursuant to Item 15(b) of this
report.
The agreements and other documents filed as exhibits to this report are not intended to provide factual information or other
disclosure other than with respect to the terms of the agreements or other documents themselves, and you should not rely on them
for that purpose. In particular, any representations and warranties made by us in these agreements or other documents were made
solely within the specific context of the relevant agreement or document and may not describe the actual state of affairs as of the
date they were made or at any other time.
Item 16.  Form 10-K Summary.
None.
130
Table of Contents
Form 10-K
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 CATERPILLAR INC.
 Registrant
  
February 15, 2023 By: /s/ Suzette M. Long
  
Suzette M. Long
Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 
  
Chairman of the Board
 and Chief Executive Officer February 15, 2023/s/ D. James Umpleby III
 
D. James Umpleby III
   
February 15, 2023 /s/ Andrew R.J. Bonfield Chief Financial Officer
Andrew R.J. Bonfield
  
February 15, 2023 /s/ William E. SchauppVice President and Chief Accounting
Officer
 
William E. Schaupp
February 15, 2023 /s/ Kelly A. Ayotte Director
 Kelly  A. Ayotte  
   
February 15, 2023 /s/ David L. Calhoun Director
 David L. Calhoun 
   
   
131
Table of Contents
February 15, 2023 /s/ Daniel M. Dickinson Director
 
Daniel M. Dickinson 
   
February 15, 2023 /s/ Gerald Johnson Director
 
Gerald Johnson 
   
February 15, 2023 /s/ David W. MacLennan Director
 David W. MacLennan 
February 15, 2023 /s/ Debra L. Reed-Klages Presiding Director
Debra L. Reed-Klages
   
February 15, 2023 /s/ Edward B. Rust, Jr. Director
 
Edward B. Rust, Jr. 
   
   
February 15, 2023 /s/ Susan C. Schwab Director
 Susan C. Schwab 
  
   
February 15, 2023 /s/ Rayford Wilkins, Jr. Director
 
Rayford Wilkins, Jr. 
132
