UNITED ST ATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGT ON, D.C.  20549
 
FORM 10-K
 
(Mark One)
☒ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022
or
☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934
For the transition period from __________ to_________
Commission  Registrants;  I.R.S. Employer
File Number  Addr ess and Telephone Number  States of Incorporation  Identification Nos.
     
1-3525  AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER CO INC. New York  13-4922640
333-221643 AEP TEXAS INC. Delaware 51-0007707
333-217143  AEP TRANSMISSION COMP ANY , LLC Delaware  46-1125168
1-3457  APPALACHIAN POWER COMP ANY Virginia  54-0124790
1-3570  INDIANA  MICHIGAN POWER COMP ANY Indiana  35-0410455
1-6543  OHIO POWER COMP ANY Ohio  31-4271000
0-343  PUBLIC SER VICE COMP ANY  OF OKLAHOMA Oklahoma  73-0410895
1-3146  SOUTHWESTERN ELECTRIC POWER COMP ANY Delaware  72-0323455
  1 Riverside Plaza, Columbus, Ohio 43215-2373   
  Telephone (614) 716-1000   
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Registrant 
Title of each class 
Trading SymbolName of Each Exchange on Which
Register ed
American Electric Power Company Inc. Common Stock, $6.50 par
valueAEP The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC
American Electric Power Company Inc. 6.125% Corporate Units AEPPZ The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None
Indicate by check mark if the registrant American Electric Power Company , Inc., AEP Texas Inc., AEP Transmission
Company , LLC, Appalachian Power Company , Ohio Power Company and Southwestern Electric Power Company , are well-
known seasoned issuers, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.YesxNo ¨
Indicate by check mark if the registrants Indiana Michigan Power Company and Public Service Company of Oklahoma, are
well-known seasoned issuers, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.Yes¨No x
Indicate by check mark if the registrants are not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Exchange Act.Yes¨No x
Indicate by check mark whether the registrants (1) have filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registr ants were required
to file such reports), and (2) have been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.YesxNo ¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrants have submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).YesxNo ¨
Indicate by check mark whether American Electric Power Company , Inc. is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a
smaller repor ting company , or an emer ging growth company .  See the definitions of “large accelerat ed filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller
reporting company ,” and “emer ging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
 
Large Accelerated filer x Accelerated filer ☐ Non-accelerated filer ☐
      
Smaller reporting company ☐ Emer ging growth company ☐
Indicate by check mark whether AEP Texas Inc., AEP Transmission Company , LLC, Appalachian Powe r Company , Indiana Michigan Power
Company , Ohio Power Company , Public Service Com pany of Oklahoma and Southwestern Electric Power Company are large accelerated filers,
accelerated filers, non-accelerated filers, smaller reporting companies, or emer ging growth companies.  See the definitions of “large accelerated
filer,” “accelerated filer ,” “smaller reporting company ,” and “emer ging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
 
Large Accelerated filer ☐ Accelerated filer ☐ Non-accelerated filer x
      
Smaller reporting company ☐ Emer ging growth company ☐  
If an emer ging growth company , indicate by check mark if the registrants have elected not to use the extended transition period for complying
with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.
☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’ s assessment of the effectiveness of its
internal control over financ ial reporting under Section  404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting
firm that prepared or issued its audit report.
☒
If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financi al statements of the registrant included
in the filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements.
¨
Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation
received by any of the registrant’ s executive of ficers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b).
¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrants are shell companies (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ☐ Nox
AEP Texas Inc., AEP Transmission Company , LLC, Appalachian Power Company , Indiana Michigan Power Company , Ohio Power Company ,
Public Service Company of Oklahoma and Southwestern Electric Power Company meet the conditions set forth in General Instruction I(1)(a) and
(b) of Form 10-K and are therefore filing this Form 10-K with the reduced disclosure format specified in General Instruction I(2) to such Form
10-K.
 Aggr egate Market Value of Voting and Non-
Voting Common Equity Held by
Nonaffiliates of the Registrants as of June
30, 2022 the Last Trading Date of the
Registrants' Most Recently Completed
Second Fiscal QuarterNumber  of Shar es of
Common Stock Outstanding
of the Registrants as of
December  31, 2022
American Electric Power Company , Inc. $49,300,31 1,811 513,866,081  
  ($6.50 par value)
AEP Texas Inc. None 100 
($0.01 par value)
AEP Transmission Company , LLC (a) None NA
Appalachian Power Company None 13,499,500  
  (no par value)
Indiana Michigan Power Company None 1,400,000  
  (no par value)
Ohio Power Company None 27,952,473  
  (no par value)
Public Service Company of Oklahoma None 9,013,000  
  ($15 par value)
Southwestern Electric Power Company None 3,680  
  ($18 par value)
(a) 100% interest is held by AEP Transmission Holdco.
NA    Not applicable.
Note on Market Value of Common Equity Held by Nonaffiliates
American Electric Power Company, Inc. owns all of the common stock of AEP Texas Inc., Appalachian Power
Company, Indiana Michigan Power Company, Ohio Power Company, Public Service Company of Oklahoma and
Southwestern Electric Power Company and, indirectly, all of the LLC membership interest in AEP Transmission
Company, LLC (see Item 12 herein).
Documents Incorporated By Reference
Description Part of Form 10-K into which
Document is Incorporated
   
Portions of Proxy Statement of American Electric Power Company, Inc. for 2023
Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Part III
This combined Form 10-K is separately filed by American Electric Power Company, Inc., AEP Texas Inc., AEP
Transmission Company, LLC, Appalachian Power Company, Indiana Michigan Power Company, Ohio Power
Company, Public Service Company of Oklahoma and Southwestern Electric Power Company.  Information
contained herein relating to any individual registrant is filed by such registrant on its own behalf.  Except for
American Electric Power Company, Inc., each registrant makes no representation as to information relating to
the other registrants.
You can access financial and other information at AEP’s website, including AEP’s Principles of Business
Conduct, certain committee charters and Principles of Corporate Governance.  The address is
www.AEP.com.  Investors can obtain copies of our SEC filings from this site free of charge, as well as from the
SEC website at www.sec.gov.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Item
Number Page
Number
 Glossary of Terms i
 Forward-Looking Information vii
PART I
1 Business  
 General 1
 Business Segments 15
 Vertically Integrated Utilities 15
 Transmission and Distribution Utilities 22
 AEP Transmission Holdco 24
 Generation & Marketing 27
 Executive Officers of AEP 30
1A Risk Factors 32
1B Unresolved Staff Comments 45
2 Properties 45
 Generation Facilities 45
 Transmission and Distribution Facilities 51
 Title to Property 51
 System Transmission Lines and Facility Siting 52
 Construction Program 52
 Potential Uninsured Losses 52
3 Legal Proceedings 52
4 Mine Safety Disclosure 52
PART II
5 Market for Registrants’ Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities 54
6 Reserved 55
7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 55
7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 55
8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 55
9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 428
9A Controls and Procedures 428
9B Other Information 428
9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 428
PART III
10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 429
11 Executive Compensation 429
12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters 430
13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 430
14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 431
PART IV
15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
 Financial Statements 432
16 Form 10-K Summary 433
 Signatures 434
 Index of Financial Statement Schedules S-1
 Exhibit Index E-1
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
When the following terms and abbreviations appear in the text of this report, they have the meanings indicated
below.
Term  Meaning
   
AEGCo  AEP Generating Company, an AEP electric utility subsidiary.
AEP  American Electric Power Company, Inc., an investor-owned electric public utility
holding company which includes American Electric Power Company, Inc.
(Parent) and majority-owned consolidated subsidiaries and consolidated
affiliates.
AEP Credit AEP Credit, Inc., a consolidated VIE of AEP which securitizes accounts receivable
and accrued utility revenues for affiliated electric utility companies.
AEP East Companies APCo, I&M, KGPCo, KPCo, OPCo and WPCo.
AEP Energy AEP Energy, Inc., a wholly-owned retail electric supplier for customers in Ohio,
Illinois and other deregulated electricity markets throughout the United States.
AEP Energy Supply, LLC A nonregulated holding company for AEP’s competitive generation, wholesale and
retail businesses, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of AEP.
AEP OnSite Partners A division of AEP Energy Supply, LLC that builds, owns, operates and maintains
customer solutions utilizing existing and emerging distributed technologies.
AEP Renewables A division of AEP Energy Supply, LLC that develops and/or acquires large scale
renewable projects that are backed with long-term contracts with creditworthy
counter parties.
AEP System  American Electric Power System, an electric system, owned and operated by AEP
subsidiaries.
AEP Texas AEP Texas Inc., an AEP electric utility subsidiary.
AEP Transmission Holdco AEP Transmission Holding Company, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AEP.
AEP Wind Holdings, LLC Acquired in April 2019 as Sempra Renewables LLC, develops, owns and operates, or
holds interests in, wind generation facilities in the United States.
AEPEP AEP Energy Partners, Inc., a subsidiary of AEP dedicated to wholesale marketing
and trading, hedging activities, asset management and commercial and industrial
sales in deregulated markets.
AEPRO AEP River Operations, LLC, a commercial barge operation sold in November 2015.
AEPSC  American Electric Power Service Corporation, an AEP service subsidiary providing
management and professional services to AEP and its subsidiaries.
AEPTCo  AEP Transmission Company, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AEP Transmission
Holdco, is an intermediate holding company that owns the State Transcos.
AEPTCo Parent AEP Transmission Company, LLC, the holding company of the State Transcos
within the AEPTCo consolidation.
AEPTHCo  AEP Transmission Holding Company, LLC, a subsidiary of AEP, an intermediate
holding company that owns transmission operations joint ventures and AEPTCo.
AFUDC  Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction.
AGR  AEP Generation Resources Inc., a competitive AEP subsidiary in the Generation &
Marketing segment.
ALJ Administrative Law Judge.
AOCI Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.
APCo  Appalachian Power Company, an AEP electric utility subsidiary.
Appalachian Consumer
Rate Relief FundingAppalachian Consumer Rate Relief Funding LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of
APCo and a consolidated VIE formed for the purpose of issuing and servicing
securitization bonds related to the under-recovered ENEC deferral balance.
APTCo AEP Appalachian Transmission Company, Inc., a wholly-owned AEPTCo
transmission subsidiary.
i
Term  Meaning
   
APSC Arkansas Public Service Commission.
ARAM Average Rate Assumption Method, an IRS approved method used to calculate the
reversal of Excess ADIT for rate-making purposes.
ARO Asset Retirement Obligations.
ASU Accounting Standards Update.
ATM At-the-Market.
CAA  Clean Air Act.
CARES Act Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act signed into law in March 2020.
CCR Coal Combustion Residual.
CLECO Central Louisiana Electric Company, a nonaffiliated utility company.
CO  Carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases.
CO Carbon dioxide equivalent.
Conesville Plant A retired, single unit coal-fired generation plant totaling 651 MW located in
Conesville, Ohio. The plant was jointly-owned by AGR and a nonaffiliate.
Cook Plant  Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant, a two-unit, 2,296 MW nuclear plant owned by I&M.
COVID-19 Coronavirus 2019, a highly infectious respiratory disease. In March 2020, the World
Health Organization declared COVID-19 a worldwide pandemic.
CRES provider Competitive Retail Electric Service providers under Ohio law that target retail
customers by offering alternative generation service.
CSAPR Cross-State Air Pollution Rule.
CSPCo  Columbus Southern Power Company, a former AEP electric utility subsidiary that was
merged into OPCo effective December 31, 2011.
CWA Clean Water Act.
CWIP Construction Work in Progress.
DCC Fuel DCC Fuel XI, DCC Fuel XII, DCC Fuel XIII, DCC Fuel XIV, DCC Fuel XV, DCC
Fuel XVI, DCC Fuel XVII and DCC Fuel XVIII consolidated VIEs formed for the
purpose of acquiring, owning and leasing nuclear fuel to I&M.
Desert Sky Desert Sky Wind Farm LLC, a 170 MW wind electricity generation facility located on
Indian Mesa in Pecos County, Texas in which AEP owns a 100% interest.
DHLC Dolet Hills Lignite Company, LLC, a wholly-owned lignite mining subsidiary of
SWEPCo.
DIR Distribution Investment Rider.
DOE U. S. Department of Energy.
EIS Energy Insurance Services, Inc., a nonaffiliated captive insurance company and
consolidated VIE of AEP.
ELG Effluent Limitation Guidelines.
ENEC Expanded Net Energy Cost.
Equity Units AEP’s Equity Units issued in August 2020 and March 2019.
ERCOT  Electric Reliability Council of Texas regional transmission organization.
ESP Electric Security Plans, a PUCO requirement for electric utilities to adjust their rates by
filing with the PUCO.
ETT  Electric Transmission Texas, LLC, an equity interest joint venture between AEP
Transmission Holdco and Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company formed to own
and operate electric transmission facilities in ERCOT.
Excess ADIT Excess accumulated deferred income taxes.
FAC Fuel Adjustment Clause.
FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board.
Federal EPA  United States Environmental Protection Agency.
FERC  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.2
2e
ii
Term  Meaning
   
FGD Flue Gas Desulfurization or scrubbers.
FIP Federal Implementation Plan.
FTR Financial Transmission Right, a financial instrument that entitles the holder to receive
compensation for certain congestion-related transmission charges that arise when
the power grid is congested resulting in differences in locational prices.
GAAP Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the United States of America.
GHG Greenhouse gas.
I&M  Indiana Michigan Power Company, an AEP electric utility subsidiary.
IMTCo AEP Indiana Michigan Transmission Company, Inc., a wholly-owned AEPTCo
transmission subsidiary.
IRA On August 16, 2022 President Biden signed into law legislation commonly referred to
as the “Inflation Reduction Act” (IRA).
IRS Internal Revenue Service.
ITC Investment Tax Credit.
IURC  Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission.
KGPCo  Kingsport Power Company, an AEP electric utility subsidiary.
KPCo  Kentucky Power Company, an AEP electric utility subsidiary.
KPSC Kentucky Public Service Commission.
KTCo AEP Kentucky Transmission Company, Inc., a wholly-owned AEPTCo transmission
subsidiary.
kV Kilovolt.
KWh Kilowatt-hour.
Liberty Liberty Utilities Co., a subsidiary of Algonquin Power & Utilities Corporation.
LPSC Louisiana Public Service Commission.
MATS Mercury and Air Toxic Standards.
Maverick Maverick, part of the North Central Wind Energy Facilities, consists of 287 MWs of
wind generation in Oklahoma.
MISO  Midcontinent Independent System Operator.
Mitchell Plant A two unit, 1,560 MW coal-fired power plant located in Moundsville, West Virginia.
The plant is jointly owned by KPCo and WPCo.
MMBtu  Million British Thermal Units.
MPSC Michigan Public Service Commission.
MTM Mark-to-Market.
MW  Megawatt.
MWh Megawatt-hour.
NAAQS National Ambient Air Quality Standards.
NERC North American Electric Reliability Corporation.
Nonutility Money Pool  Centralized funding mechanism AEP uses to meet the short-term cash requirements of
certain nonutility subsidiaries.
NCWF North Central Wind Energy Facilities, a joint PSO and SWEPCo project, which
includes three Oklahoma wind facilities totaling approximately 1,484 MWs of
wind generation.
NOL Net operating losses.
NOLC Net operating loss carryforwards.
NO  Nitrogen oxide.
NPDES National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
NRC  Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
NSR New Source Review.x
iii
Term  Meaning
   
OATT  Open Access Transmission Tariff.
OCC  Corporation Commission of the State of Oklahoma.
ODFA Oklahoma Development Finance Authority.
OHTCo AEP Ohio Transmission Company, Inc., a wholly-owned AEPTCo transmission
subsidiary.
Oklaunion Power Station A retired, single unit coal-fired generation plant totaling 650 MW located in Vernon,
Texas. The plant was jointly-owned by AEP Texas, PSO and certain nonaffiliated
entities.
OKTCo AEP Oklahoma Transmission Company, Inc., a wholly-owned AEPTCo transmission
subsidiary.
OPCo  Ohio Power Company, an AEP electric utility subsidiary.
OPEB Other Postretirement Benefits.
Operating Agreement Agreement, dated January 1, 1997, as amended, by and among PSO and SWEPCo
governing generating capacity allocation, energy pricing, and revenues and costs of
third-party sales.  AEPSC acts as the agent.
OTC Over-the-counter.
OVEC  Ohio Valley Electric Corporation, which is 43.47% owned by AEP.
Parent American Electric Power Company, Inc., the equity owner of AEP subsidiaries within
the AEP consolidation.
PATH-WV PATH West Virginia Transmission Company, LLC, a joint venture-owned 50% by
FirstEnergy and 50% by AEP.
PCA Power Coordination Agreement among APCo, I&M, KPCo and WPCo.
PFD Proposal for Decision.
PJM  Pennsylvania – New Jersey – Maryland regional transmission organization.
PM Particulate Matter.
PPA Purchase Power and Sale Agreement.
PSA Purchase and Sale Agreement.
PSO  Public Service Company of Oklahoma, an AEP electric utility subsidiary.
PTC Production Tax Credit.
PUCO  Public Utilities Commission of Ohio.
PUCT  Public Utility Commission of Texas.
Racine A generation plant consisting of two hydroelectric generating units totaling 48 MWs
located in Racine, Ohio and formerly owned by AGR. Racine was sold to a
nonaffiliate in December 2021.
Registrant Subsidiaries AEP subsidiaries which are SEC registrants: AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M, OPCo,
PSO and SWEPCo.
Registrants SEC registrants: AEP, AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo.
REP  Texas Retail Electric Provider.
Restoration Funding AEP Texas Restoration Funding LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AEP Texas and a
consolidated VIE formed for the purpose of issuing and servicing securitization
bonds related to storm restoration in Texas primarily caused by Hurricane Harvey.
Risk Management ContractsTrading and non-trading derivatives, including those derivatives designated as cash
flow and fair value hedges.
Rockport Plant A generation plant, jointly-owned by AEGCo and I&M, consisting of two 1,310 MW
coal-fired generating units near Rockport, Indiana.
ROE Return on Equity.
RPM Reliability Pricing Model.
RTO  Regional Transmission Organization, responsible for moving electricity over large
interstate areas.
iv
Term  Meaning
   
Sabine  Sabine Mining Company, a lignite mining company that is a consolidated VIE for AEP
and SWEPCo.
Santa Rita East Santa Rita East Wind Holdings, LLC, a consolidated VIE whose sole purpose is to own
and operate a 302 MW wind generation facility in west Texas in which AEP owns
an 85% interest.
SEC  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Sempra Renewables LLC Sempra Renewables LLC, acquired in April 2019 (subsequently renamed as AEP Wind
Holdings LLC), consists of 724 MWs of wind generation and battery assets in the
United States.
SIA System Integration Agreement, effective June 15, 2000, as amended, provides
contractual basis for coordinated planning, operation and maintenance of the power
supply sources of the combined AEP.
SIP State Implementation Plan.
SNF Spent Nuclear Fuel.
SO  Sulfur dioxide.
SPP  Southwest Power Pool regional transmission organization.
SSO Standard service offer.
State Transcos AEPTCo’s seven wholly-owned, FERC regulated, transmission only electric utilities,
which are geographically aligned with AEP's existing utility operating companies.
Sundance Sundance, acquired in April 2021 as part of the North Central Wind Energy Facilities,
consists of 199 MWs of wind generation in Oklahoma.
SWEPCo  Southwestern Electric Power Company, an AEP electric utility subsidiary.
SWTCo AEP Southwestern Transmission Company, Inc., a wholly-owned AEPTCo
transmission subsidiary.
TA  Transmission Agreement, effective November 2010, among APCo, I&M, KGPCo,
KPCo, OPCo and WPCo with AEPSC as agent.
Tax Reform On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law legislation referred to as the
“Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” (the TCJA). The TCJA includes significant changes to the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, including a reduction in the corporate federal
income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018.
TCA  Transmission Coordination Agreement dated January 1, 1997, by and among, PSO,
SWEPCo and AEPSC, in connection with the operation of the transmission assets
of the two public utility subsidiaries.
Transition Funding AEP Texas Central Transition Funding III LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AEP
Texas and consolidated VIE formed for the purpose of issuing and servicing
securitization bonds related to restructuring legislation in Texas.
Transource Energy Transource Energy, LLC, a consolidated VIE formed for the purpose of investing in
utilities which develop, acquire, construct, own and operate transmission facilities
in accordance with FERC-approved rates.
Traverse Traverse, part of the North Central Wind Energy Facilities, consists of 998 MWs of
wind generation in Oklahoma.
Trent Trent Wind Farm LLC, a 156 MW wind electricity generation facility located in west
Texas in which AEP owns a 100% interest.
Turk Plant John W. Turk, Jr. Plant, a 650 MW coal-fired plant in Arkansas that is 73% owned by
SWEPCo.
UMWA United Mine Workers of America.
UPA Unit Power Agreement.
Utility Money Pool  Centralized funding mechanism AEP uses to meet the short-term cash requirements of
certain utility subsidiaries.
VIE Variable Interest Entity.
Virginia SCC  Virginia State Corporation Commission.2
v
Term  Meaning
   
WPCo  Wheeling Power Company, an AEP electric utility subsidiary.
WVPSC  Public Service Commission of West Virginia.
WVTCo AEP West Virginia Transmission Company, Inc., a wholly-owned AEPTCo
transmission subsidiary.
vi
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
This report made by the Registrants contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Many forward-looking statements appear in “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” but there are others throughout this document which may
be identified by words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “would,”
“project,” “continue” and similar expressions, and include statements reflecting future results or guidance and
statements of outlook.  These matters are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those projected.  Forward-looking statements in this document are presented as of the date of this
document.  Except to the extent required by applicable law, management undertakes no obligation to update or revise
any forward-looking statement.  Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the
forward-looking statements are:
•Changes in economic conditions, electric market demand and demographic patterns in AEP service territories.
•The impact of pandemics and any associated disruption of AEP’s business operations due to impacts on economic
or market conditions, costs of compliance with potential government regulations, electricity usage, supply chain
issues, customers, service providers, vendors and suppliers.
•The economic impact of increased global trade tensions including the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, and
the adoption or expansion of economic sanctions or trade restrictions.
•Inflationary or deflationary interest rate trends.
•Volatility and disruptions in financial markets precipitated by any cause, including failure to make progress on
federal budget or debt ceiling matters; particularly developments affecting the availability or cost of capital to
finance new capital projects and refinance existing debt.
•The availability and cost of funds to finance working capital and capital needs, particularly (i) if expected sources
of capital, such as proceeds from the sale of assets or subsidiaries, do not materialize or do not materialize at the
level anticipated, and (ii) during periods when the time lag between incurring costs and recovery is long and the
costs are material.
•Decreased demand for electricity.
•Weather conditions, including storms and drought conditions, and the ability to recover significant storm
restoration costs.
•The cost of fuel and its transportation, the creditworthiness and performance of fuel suppliers and transporters and
the cost of storing and disposing of used fuel, including coal ash and SNF.
•The availability of fuel and necessary generation capacity and the performance of generation plants.
•The ability to recover fuel and other energy costs through regulated or competitive electric rates.
•The ability to transition from fossil generation and the ability to build or acquire renewable generation,
transmission lines and facilities (including the ability to obtain any necessary regulatory approvals and permits)
when needed at acceptable prices and terms, including favorable tax treatment, and to recover those costs.
•New legislation, litigation or government regulation, including changes to tax laws and regulations, oversight of
nuclear generation, energy commodity trading and new or heightened requirements for reduced emissions of
sulfur, nitrogen, mercury, carbon, soot or PM and other substances that could impact the continued operation, cost
recovery and/or profitability of generation plants and related assets.
•The impact of federal tax legislation on results of operations, financial condition, cash flows or credit ratings.
•The risks before, during and after generation of electricity associated with the fuels used or the byproducts and
wastes of such fuels, including coal ash and SNF.
•Timing and resolution of pending and future rate cases, negotiations and other regulatory decisions, including rate
or other recovery of new investments in generation, distribution and transmission service and environmental
compliance.
•Resolution of litigation.
•The ability to constrain operation and maintenance costs.
•Prices and demand for power generated and sold at wholesale.
vii
•Changes in technology, particularly with respect to energy storage and new, developing, alternative or distributed
sources of generation.
•The ability to recover through rates any remaining unrecovered investment in generation units that may be retired
before the end of their previously projected useful lives.
•Volatility and changes in markets for coal and other energy-related commodities, particularly changes in the price
of natural gas.
•The impact of changing expectations and demands of customers, regulators, investors and stakeholders, including
heightened emphasis on environmental, social and governance concerns.
•Changes in utility regulation and the allocation of costs within RTOs including ERCOT, PJM and SPP.
•Changes in the creditworthiness of the counterparties with contractual arrangements, including participants in the
energy trading market.
•Actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt.
•The impact of volatility in the capital markets on the value of the investments held by the pension, OPEB, captive
insurance entity and nuclear decommissioning trust and the impact of such volatility on future funding
requirements.
•Accounting standards periodically issued by accounting standard-setting bodies.
•Other risks and unforeseen events, including wars and military conflicts, the effects of terrorism (including
increased security costs), embargoes, naturally occurring and human-caused fires, cyber-security threats and other
catastrophic events.
•The ability to attract and retain the requisite work force and key personnel.
The forward-looking statements of the Registrants speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are
made.  The Registrants expressly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking information, except as
required by law.  For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see “Risk Factors” in Part I of this report.
The Registrants may use AEP’s website as a distribution channel for material company information. Financial and other
important information regarding the Registrants is routinely posted on and accessible through AEP’s website at
www.aep.com/investors/. In addition, you may automatically receive email alerts and other information about the
Registrants when you enroll your email address by visiting the “Email Alerts” section at www.aep.com/investors/.
Company Website and Availability of SEC Filings
Our principal corporate website address is www.aep.com. Information on our website is not incorporated by reference
herein and is not part of this Form 10-K. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Report on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such
documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that
contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding AEP.
viii
PART I
ITEM 1.   BUSINESS
GENERAL
Overview and Description of Major Subsidiaries
AEP was incorporated under the laws of the State of New York in 1906 and reorganized in 1925. It is a public utility
holding company that owns, directly or indirectly, all of the outstanding common stock of its public utility subsidiaries
and varying percentages of other subsidiaries.
The service areas of AEP’s public utility subsidiaries cover portions of the states of Arkansas, Indiana, Kentucky,
Louisiana, Michigan, Ohio, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and West Virginia. Transmission networks are
interconnected with extensive distribution facilities in the territories served. The public utility subsidiaries of AEP have
traditionally provided electric service, consisting of generation, transmission and distribution, on an integrated basis to
their retail customers. Restructuring laws in Michigan, Ohio and the ERCOT area of Texas have caused AEP public
utility subsidiaries in those states to unbundle previously integrated regulated rates for their retail customers.
The member companies of the AEP System have contractual, financial and other business relationships with the other
member companies, such as participation in the AEP System savings and retirement plans and tax returns, sales of
electricity and transportation and handling of fuel. The companies of the AEP System also obtain certain accounting,
administrative, information systems, engineering, financial, legal, maintenance and other services at cost from a
common provider, AEPSC.
As of December 31, 2022, the subsidiaries of AEP had a total of 16,974 employees. Because it is a holding company
rather than an operating company, AEP has no employees. The material subsidiaries of AEP are as follows:
AEP Texas
Organized in Delaware in 1925, AEP Texas is engaged in the transmission and distribution of electric power to
approximately 1,094,000 retail customers through REPs in west, central and southern Texas.  As of December 31, 2022,
AEP Texas had 1,594 employees.  Among the principal industries served by AEP Texas are petroleum and coal products
manufacturing, chemical manufacturing, oil and gas extraction, pipeline transportation and support activities for
mining.  The territory served by AEP Texas also includes several military installations. AEP Texas is a member of
ERCOT.  AEP Texas is part of AEP’s Transmission and Distribution Utilities segment.
AEPTCo
Organized in Delaware in 2006, AEPTCo is a holding company for the State Transcos. The State Transcos develop and
own new transmission assets that are physically connected to the AEP System.  Individual State Transcos (a) have
obtained the approvals necessary to operate in Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio, Oklahoma and West Virginia,
subject to any applicable siting requirements, (b) are authorized to submit projects for commission approval in Virginia
and (c) have been granted consent to enter into a joint license agreement that will support investment in Tennessee.
Neither AEPTCo nor its subsidiaries have any employees. Instead, AEPSC and certain AEP utility subsidiaries provide
services to these entities. AEPTCo is part of the AEP Transmission Holdco segment.
1
APCo
Organized in Virginia in 1926, APCo is engaged in the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power to
approximately 965,000 retail customers in the southwestern portion of Virginia and southern West Virginia, and in
supplying and marketing electric power at wholesale to other electric utility companies, municipalities and other market
participants. APCo owns 6,681 MWs of generating capacity.  APCo uses its generation to serve its retail and other
customers.  As of December 31, 2022, APCo had 1,650 employees. Among the principal industries served by APCo are
coal-mining, primary metals, pipeline transportation, chemical manufacturing and paper manufacturing. APCo is a
member of PJM.  APCo is part of AEP’s Vertically Integrated Utilities segment.
I&M
Organized in Indiana in 1907, I&M is engaged in the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power to
approximately 609,000 retail customers in northern and eastern Indiana and southwestern Michigan, and in supplying
and marketing electric power at wholesale to other electric utility companies, rural electric cooperatives, municipalities
and other market participants.  I&M owns or leases 3,662 MWs of generating capacity, which it uses to serve its retail
and other customers.  In December 2022, the Rockport Plant, Unit 2 lease ended and I&M and AEGCo acquired 100%
of the interests in the Rockport Plant.  AEGCo’s 50% ownership share of Rockport Plant, Unit 2 is being billed to I&M
under a FERC-approved UPA.  I&M’s purchased power from AEGCo and I&M’s 50% ownership share of Rockport
Plant, Unit 2 electricity generated represents a merchant resource for I&M until Rockport Plant, Unit 2 is retired in
2028. As of December 31, 2022, I&M had 2,016 employees. Among the principal industries served are primary metals,
transportation equipment, chemical manufacturing, plastics and rubber products and fabricated metal product
manufacturing.  I&M is a member of PJM.  I&M is part of AEP’s Vertically Integrated Utilities segment.
KPCo
Organized in Kentucky in 1919, KPCo is engaged in the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power to
approximately 163,000 retail customers in eastern Kentucky, and in supplying and marketing electric power at
wholesale to other electric utility companies, municipalities and other market participants.  KPCo owns 1,075 MWs of
generating capacity.  KPCo uses its generation to serve its retail and other customers.  As of December 31, 2022, KPCo
had 285 employees. Among the principal industries served are petroleum and coal products manufacturing, chemical
manufacturing, coal-mining, oil and gas extraction and pipeline transportation.  KPCo is a member of PJM.  KPCo is
part of AEP’s Vertically Integrated Utilities segment. In October 2021, AEP entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement to
sell KPCo to Liberty Utilities Co. The closing of the sale is subject to receipt of FERC authorization under Section 203
of the Federal Power Act and clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976. See
“Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional information.
KGPCo
Organized in Virginia in 1917, KGPCo provides electric service to approximately 49,000 retail customers in Kingsport
and eight neighboring communities in northeastern Tennessee. KGPCo does not own any generating facilities and is a
member of PJM. It purchases electric power from APCo for distribution to its customers. As of December 31, 2022,
KGPCo had 53 employees. KGPCo is part of AEP’s Vertically Integrated Utilities segment.
OPCo
Organized in Ohio in 1907 and re-incorporated in 1924, OPCo is engaged in the transmission and distribution of
electric power to approximately 1,521,000 retail customers in Ohio.  OPCo purchases energy and capacity at auction to
serve generation service customers who have not switched to a competitive generation supplier.  As of December 31,
2022, OPCo had 1,713 employees.  Among the principal industries served by OPCo are primary metals, petroleum and
coal products manufacturing, plastics and rubber products, chemical manufacturing, pipeline transportation and data
centers. OPCo is a member of PJM.  OPCo is part of AEP’s Transmission and Distribution Utilities segment.
2
PSO
Organized in Oklahoma in 1913, PSO is engaged in the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power to
approximately 575,000 retail customers in eastern and southwestern Oklahoma, and in supplying and marketing electric
power at wholesale to other electric utility companies, municipalities, rural electric cooperatives and other market
participants.  PSO owns 4,380 MWs of generating capacity, which it uses to serve its retail and other customers.  As of
December 31, 2022, PSO had 1,030 employees. Among the principal industries served by PSO are paper
manufacturing, oil and gas extraction, petroleum and coal products manufacturing, plastics and rubber products and
pipeline transportation. PSO is a member of SPP.  PSO is part of AEP’s Vertically Integrated Utilities segment.
SWEPCo
Organized in Delaware in 1912, SWEPCo is engaged in the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power
to approximately 551,000 retail customers in northeastern and panhandle of Texas, northwestern Louisiana and western
Arkansas, and in supplying and marketing electric power at wholesale to other electric utility companies,
municipalities, rural electric cooperatives and other market participants. SWEPCo owns 5,585 MWs of generating
capacity, which it uses to serve its retail and other customers.  As of December 31, 2022, SWEPCo had 1,372
employees. Among the principal industries served by SWEPCo are petroleum and coal products manufacturing, food
manufacturing, paper manufacturing, oil and gas extraction and chemical manufacturing. The territory served by
SWEPCo includes several military installations, colleges and universities. SWEPCo also owns and operates a lignite
coal-mining operation. SWEPCo is a member of SPP.  SWEPCo is part of AEP’s Vertically Integrated Utilities
segment.
WPCo
Organized in West Virginia in 1883 and re-incorporated in 1911, WPCo provides electric service to approximately
41,000 retail customers in northern West Virginia and in supplying and marketing electric power at wholesale to other
market participants. WPCo owns 780 MWs of generating capacity which it uses to serve its retail and other customers.
As of December 31, 2022, WPCo had 220 employees. Among the principal industries served by WPCo are coal-
mining, primary metals, pipeline transportation, chemical manufacturing and paper manufacturing. WPCo is a member
of PJM.  WPCo is part of AEP’s Vertically Integrated Utilities segment.
Service Company Subsidiary
AEPSC is a service company subsidiary that provides accounting, administrative, information systems, engineering,
financial, legal, maintenance and other services at cost to AEP subsidiaries. The executive officers of AEP and certain
of the executive officers of its public utility subsidiaries are employees of AEPSC. As of December 31, 2022, AEPSC
had 6,572 employees.
3
Public Utility Subsidiaries by Jurisdiction
The following table illustrates certain regulatory information with respect to the jurisdictions in which the public utility
subsidiaries of AEP operate:
Principal JurisdictionAEP Utility Subsidiaries Operating in
that JurisdictionAuthorized Return on
Equity (a)
FERC AEPTCo - PJM 10.35 %(b)
AEPTCo - SPP 10.50 %
Ohio OPCo 9.70 %
West Virginia APCo 9.75 %
 WPCo 9.75 %
Virginia APCo 9.20 %
Indiana I&M 9.70 %
Michigan I&M 9.86 %
Texas AEP Texas 9.40 %
 SWEPCo 9.25 %(c)
Tennessee KGPCo 9.50 %
Kentucky KPCo 9.30 %
Louisiana SWEPCo 9.50 %
Arkansas SWEPCo 9.50 %
Oklahoma PSO 9.40 %
(a) Identifies the predominant current authorized ROE, and may not include other, less significant, permitted
recovery.  Actual ROE varies from authorized ROE.
(b) In December 2022, the FERC issued an order removing the 50 basis point RTO incentive from OHTCo
transmission formula rates effective February 2022, reducing OHTCo’s authorized ROE to 9.85%.
(c) In February 2022, SWEPCo filed a motion for rehearing with the PUCT challenging several errors in the
final order, which included a challenge of the approved ROE. In April 2022, the PUCT denied the motion
for rehearing. In May 2022, SWEPCo filed a petition for review with the Texas District Court seeking a
judicial review of the several errors challenged in the PUCT’s final order.
(a) Pretax income does not include intercompany eliminations.
(b) Excludes $363 million loss on expected sale of the Kentucky Operations.
4
CLASSES OF SERVICE
AEP and subsidiaries recognize revenues from customers for retail and wholesale electricity sales and electricity
transmission and distribution delivery services. AEP’s subsidiaries within the Vertically Integrated Utilities,
Transmission and Distribution Utilities, AEP Transmission Holdco and Generation & Marketing segments derive
revenue from the following sources: Retail Revenues, Wholesale and Competitive Retail Revenues, Other Revenues
from Contracts with Customers and Alternative Revenues. For further information relating to the sources of revenue for
the Registrants, see Note 19 - Revenues from Contracts with Customers for additional information.
FINANCING
General
Companies within the AEP System generally use short-term debt to finance working capital needs.  Short-term debt
may also be used to finance acquisitions, construction and redemption or repurchase of outstanding securities until such
needs can be financed with long-term debt.  In recent history, short-term funding needs have been provided for by cash
on hand, term loan issuances and AEP’s commercial paper program.  Funds are made available to subsidiaries under the
AEP corporate borrowing program.  Certain public utility subsidiaries of AEP also sell accounts receivable to provide
liquidity.  See “Financial Condition” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations included in the 2022 Annual Report for additional information.
AEP’s revolving credit agreement (which backstops the commercial paper program) includes covenants and events of
default typical for this type of facility, including a maximum debt/capital test.  In addition, the acceleration of AEP’s
payment obligations, or the obligations of certain of its major subsidiaries, prior to maturity under any other agreement
or instrument relating to debt outstanding in excess of $50 million, would cause an event of default under the credit
agreement. As of December 31, 2022, AEP was in compliance with its debt covenants.  With the exception of a
voluntary bankruptcy or insolvency, any event of default has either or both a cure period or notice requirement before
termination of the agreement.  A voluntary bankruptcy or insolvency of AEP or one of its significant subsidiaries would
be considered an immediate termination event.  See “Financial Condition” section of Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in the 2022 Annual Report for additional
information.
AEP’s subsidiaries have also utilized, and expect to continue to utilize, additional financing arrangements, such as
securitization financings and leasing arrangements, including the leasing of coal transportation equipment and facilities.
ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER MATTERS
General
AEP subsidiaries are currently subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities with regard to air and water-
quality control and other environmental matters, and are subject to zoning and other regulation by local
authorities.  The environmental issues that management believes are potentially material to the AEP System are
outlined below.
5
Clean Water Act Requirements
Operations for AEP subsidiaries are subject to the CWA, which prohibits the discharge of pollutants into waters of the
United States except pursuant to appropriate permits and regulates systems that withdraw surface water for use in
power plants.  In 2014, the Federal EPA issued a final rule setting forth standards for water withdrawals at existing
power plants that is intended to reduce mortality of aquatic organisms pinned against a plant’s cooling water intake
screen (impingement) or entrained in the cooling water.  The standards affect all plants withdrawing more than two
million gallons of cooling water per day.  A schedule for compliance with the standard is established by the permit
agency and incorporated in NPDES permits.
In November 2015, the Federal EPA issued a final rule revising ELG for electricity generating facilities. The rule
established limits on FGD wastewater, fly ash and bottom ash transport water and flue gas mercury control wastewater
to be imposed in NPDES permits as soon as possible after November 2018 and no later than December 2023.  The
Federal EPA further revised the rule in August 2020 for FGD wastewater and bottom ash transport water extending the
compliance date to December 2025 and establishing additional options.
In January 2020, the Federal EPA issued a final rule revising the scope of the “waters of the United States” subject to
CWA regulation. In August 2021, this rule was vacated by a federal court and shortly thereafter, in December 2021, the
Federal EPA proposed a rule that would roll back the definition of “waters of the United States” to the pre-2015
definition. That rule was finalized in January 2023 and becomes effective in March 2023. See “Environmental Issues -
Clean Water Act Regulations” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations included in the 2022 Annual Report for additional information.
Coal Ash Regulation
AEP’s operations produce a number of different coal combustion by-products, including fly ash, bottom ash, gypsum
and other materials.  A rule by the Federal EPA regulates the disposal and beneficial re-use of coal combustion
residuals, including fly ash and bottom ash generated at coal-fired electric generating units.  The rule requires certain
standards for location, groundwater monitoring and dam stability to be met at landfills and certain surface
impoundments at operating facilities. If existing disposal facilities cannot meet these standards, they will be required to
close. In August 2020, the Federal EPA revised the CCR rule to include a requirement that unlined CCR storage ponds
cease operations and initiate closure by April 11, 2021. The revised rule provides two options for seeking an extension
of that date. AEP filed extension requests for seven facilities, to date, the Federal EPA has not finalized any of those
requests. In July 2022, the Federal EPA proposed a conditional approval of the extension request for AEP’s
Mountaineer facility, but that request has since been withdrawn. See “Environmental Issues - Coal Combustion
Residual (CCR) Rule” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations included in the 2022 Annual Report for additional information.
Clean Air Act Requirements
The CAA establishes a comprehensive program to protect and improve the nation’s air quality and control mobile and
stationary sources of air emissions.  The major CAA programs affecting AEP’s power plants are described below.  The
states implement and administer many of these programs and could impose additional or more stringent requirements.
The Acid Rain Program
The CAA includes a cap-and-trade emission reduction program for SO emissions from power plants and requirements
for power plants to reduce NO emissions through the use of available combustion controls, collectively called the Acid
Rain Program. AEP continues to meet its obligations under the Acid Rain Program through the installation of controls,
use of alternate fuels and participation in the emissions allowance markets. 2
x
6
National Ambient Air Quality Standards
The CAA requires the Federal EPA to review the available scientific data for criteria pollutants periodically and
establish a concentration level in the ambient air for those substances that is adequate to protect the public health and
welfare with an extra safety margin.  The Federal EPA also can list additional pollutants and develop concentration
levels for them.  These concentration levels are known as NAAQS.
Each state identifies the areas within its boundaries that meet the NAAQS (attainment areas) and those that do not (non-
attainment areas).  Each state must develop a SIP to bring non-attainment areas into compliance with the NAAQS and
maintain good air quality in attainment areas.  All SIPs are submitted to the Federal EPA for approval.  If a state fails to
develop adequate plans, the Federal EPA develops and implements a plan.  As the Federal EPA reviews the NAAQS
and establishes new concentration levels, the attainment status of areas can change and states may be required to
develop new SIPs.  See “Environmental Issues - Clean Air Act Requirements” section of Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in the 2022 Annual Report for additional
information.
Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAP)
The CAA also requires the Federal EPA to investigate HAP emissions from the electric utility sector and submit a
report to Congress to determine whether those emissions should be regulated. In 2011, the Federal EPA issued a rule
setting Maximum Achievable Control Technology standards for new and existing coal and oil-fired utility units and
New Source Performance Standards for emissions from new and modified power plants.  In 2014, the U.S. Supreme
Court determined that the Federal EPA acted unreasonably in refusing to consider costs in determining if it was
appropriate and necessary to regulate HAP emissions from electric generating units. The Federal EPA has engaged in
additional rulemaking activity but the 2011 rule remains in effect.
Regional Haze
The CAA establishes visibility goals for certain federally designated areas, including national parks, and requires states
to submit SIPs that will demonstrate reasonable progress toward preventing impairment of visibility in these protected
areas.  In 2005, the Federal EPA issued its Clean Air Visibility Rule, detailing how the CAA’s best available retrofit
technology requirements will be applied to facilities built between 1962 and 1977 that emit more than 250 tons per year
of certain pollutants in specific industrial categories, including power plants.
Cross State Air Pollution
CSAPR is a regional trading program designed to address interstate transport of emissions that contribute significantly
to non-attainment and maintenance of the ozone and PM NAAQS in downwind states. CSAPR relies on SO and NO
allowances and individual state budgets to compel further emission reductions from electric utility generating units.
Interstate trading of allowances is allowed on a restricted basis. In January 2021, the Federal EPA finalized a revised
CSAPR rule, which substantially reduces the ozone season NO budgets in 2021-2024. Several utilities and other
entities potentially subject to the Federal EPA’s NO regulations have challenged that final rule in the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit and oral arguments were held in September 2022. Management cannot
predict the outcome of that litigation, but believes it can meet the requirements of the rule in the near term, and is
evaluating its compliance options for later years, when the budgets are further reduced. In addition, in February 2023,
the EPA Administrator finalized the denial of 2015 Ozone NAAQS SIPs for 19 states. A FIP that further revises the
ozone season NO budgets under the existing CSAPR program in those states is expected to be finalized in the spring
of 2023 and will likely take effect for the 2023 ozone season. Management is evaluating the impacts of the rule
changes.2 X
X
X
X
7
Climate Change
In October 2022, AEP announced new intermediate and long-term CO emission reduction goals, based on the output of
AEP’s integrated resource plans. See “Corporate Governance” section for additional information.
To date, the Federal EPA has twice taken action to regulate CO emissions from new and existing fossil fueled electric
generating units under the existing provisions of the CAA and both attempts have been struck down by the courts.  The
Federal EPA has announced it expects to propose a new rule in 2023. Management expects emissions to continue to
decline over time as AEP diversifies generating sources and operates fewer coal units. The projected decline in coal-
fired generation is due to a number of factors, including the ongoing cost of operating older units, the relative cost of
coal and natural gas as fuel sources, increasing environmental regulations requiring significant capital investments and
changing commodity market fundamentals.
Transforming AEP’s Generation Fleet
The electric utility industry is in the midst of an historic transformation, driven by changing customer needs, evolving
public policies, stakeholder demands, demographics, competitive offerings, technologies and commodity prices. AEP is
also transforming to be more agile and customer-focused as a valued provider of energy solutions. AEP’s long-term
commitment to reduce CO emissions reflects the current direction of the company’s resource plans to meet those
needs. As of December 31, 2022, the AEP System owned generating capacity of approximately 25,000 MWs. In 2022,
coal represented 41% of AEP’s generating capacity compared with 70% in 2005. Transforming AEP’s generation
portfolio to include, where there is regulatory support, more renewable energy and focusing on the efficient use of
energy, demand response, distributed resources and technology solutions to more efficiently manage the grid over time
is part of this strategy.
The graph below summarizes AEP’s generation capacity by resource type for the years 1999, 2005 and 2022:
(a)    Ener gy Ef ficiency/Demand Response represents avoided capacity rather than physical assets.2
2
2
8
Renewable Sources of Energy
The states AEP serves, other than Kentucky, Oklahoma, West Virginia and Tennessee, have established mandatory or
voluntary programs to increase the use of energy efficiency, alternative energy or renewable energy sources.
Management actively monitors AEP’s compliance position and is on pace to meet the relevant requirements or
benchmarks in each applicable jurisdiction.
As of December 31, 2022, AEP’s regulated utilities had long-term contracts for 2,750 MWs of wind, 80 MWs of hydro
and 65 MWs of solar power. Additionally, AEP’s regulated utilities own and operate 1,484 MWs of wind, 805 MWs of
hydro and 36 MWs of solar power delivering renewable energy to the companies’ customers.
I&M owns four solar projects that make up I&M’s 15 MW Clean Energy Solar Pilot Project and its 20 MW St. Joseph
solar facility went into operation in 2021. In 2020, PSO received approval from the OCC and SWEPCo received
approval from the APSC and LPSC to acquire the NCWF, comprised of three Oklahoma wind facilities totaling 1,484
MWs, on a fixed cost turn-key basis at completion. Both the APSC and LPSC approved the flex-up option, agreeing to
acquire the Texas portion, which the PUCT denied. PSO owns 45.5% and SWEPCo owns 54.5% of the project, which
cost approximately $2 billion. The 199 MW Sundance wind facility was acquired and placed in service in April 2021
and the 287 MW Maverick wind facility was acquired and placed in service in September 2021. The 998 MW Traverse
wind facility was acquired and placed in service in March 2022.
AEP’s regulated utilities have significant plans to add new renewable generation. SWEPCo is seeking approval from
state regulators to acquire three renewable energy projects totaling 999 MWs. PSO is seeking approval from its state
regulator to acquire 996 MW of new renewable projects. Additionally, AEP’s regulated utilities issued RFPs in 2022
seeking additional owned renewable energy projects totaling 4,800 MWs.
The growth of AEP’s renewable generation portfolio reflects the company’s strategy to diversify generation resources
to provide clean energy options to customers that meet both their energy and capacity needs.  In addition to gradually
reducing AEP’s reliance on coal-fueled generating units, the growth of renewables and natural gas helps AEP to
maintain a diversity of generation resources.
The integrated resource plans submitted to state regulatory commissions by AEP’s regulated utility subsidiaries reflect
AEP’s strategy to balance reliability and cost with customers’ desire for clean energy in a carbon-constrained world. 
AEP has committed significant capital investments to modernize the electric grid and integrate these new resources. 
Transmission assets of the AEP System interconnect approximately 22,600 MWs of renewable generation. 
AEP Energy Supply, LLC is a holding company with several divisions, including AEP Renewables and AEP OnSite
Partners.
AEP Renewables develops, owns and operates utility scale renewable projects backed with long-term contracts with
creditworthy counterparties throughout the United States.  In February 2022, AEP management announced the
beginning of a process to sell all or a portion of AEP Renewables’ competitive contracted renewables portfolio. During
November 2022, the 235 MW Flat Ridge 2 wind facility was sold. For more information on the pending sale of the
competitive contracted renewables portfolio, see the “Contracted Renewable Generation Facilities” section of
Management’s Discussion and Analysis. As of December 31, 2022, AEP Renewables owned projects operating in 11
states, including approximately 1,200 MWs of installed wind capacity and 165 MWs of installed solar capacity.
AEP OnSite Partners works directly with wholesale and large retail customers to provide tailored solutions to reduce
their energy costs based upon market knowledge, innovative applications of technology and deal
structuring capabilities.  AEP OnSite Partners targets opportunities in distributed solar, combined heat and power,
energy storage, waste heat recovery, energy efficiency, peaking generation and other energy solutions that create value
for customers.  AEP OnSite Partners pursues and develops behind the meter projects with creditworthy customers.  As
of December 31, 2022, AEP OnSite Partners owned projects located in 22 states, including approximately 168 MWs of
installed solar capacity, and approximately 26 MWs of solar projects under construction.
9
End Use Energy Efficiency
Beginning in 2008, AEP ramped up efforts to reduce energy consumption and peak demand through the introduction of
additional energy efficiency and demand response programs. These programs, commonly and collectively referred to as
demand side management, were implemented in jurisdictions where appropriate cost recovery was available. Since that
time, AEP operating company programs have reduced annual consumption by over 10 million MWhs and peak demand
by approximately 3,313 MWs. Management estimates that its operating companies spent approximately $1.6 billion
since 2008 to achieve these levels.
Energy efficiency and demand reduction programs have received regulatory support in most of the states AEP serves,
and appropriate cost recovery will be essential for AEP operating companies to continue and expand these consumer
offerings. Appropriate recovery of program costs, lost revenues, and an opportunity to earn a reasonable return ensures
that energy efficiency programs are considered equally with supply side investments. As AEP continues to transition to
a cleaner, more efficient energy future, energy efficiency and demand response programs will continue to play an
important role in how the company serves its customers.
Management believes its experience providing robust energy efficiency programs in several states positions AEP to be a
cost-effective provider of these programs as states develop their implementation plans.
Corporate Governance
In response to environmental issues and in connection with its assessment of AEP’s strategic plan, the Board of
Directors continually reviews the risks posed by new environmental rules and requirements that could alter the
retirement date of coal-fired generation assets. The Board of Directors is informed of new environmental regulations
and proposed environmental regulations or legislation that would significantly affect AEP.  In addition, the Board holds
extended meetings twice a year to provide extra time for a more robust review of the Company’s strategy, including
discussions about carbon and carbon risk. The Board’s Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance oversees
AEP’s annual Corporate Sustainability Report, which includes information about AEP’s environmental, social,
governance and financial performance.
AEP originally set CO emission reduction goals in 2018 after considering input from its annual corporate governance
outreach effort with shareholders.
In October 2022, AEP announced new intermediate and long-term CO emission reduction goals, based on the output of
the AEP’s integrated resource plans, which take into account economics, customer demand, grid reliability and
resiliency, regulations and the company’s current business strategy. AEP adjusted its near-term COemission reduction
target from a 2000 baseline to a 2005 baseline, upgraded its 80% reduction by 2030 target to include full Scope 1
emissions and accelerated its net-zero goal by five years to 2045. AEP’s total Scope 1 GHG estimated emissions in
2022 were approximately 52.5 million metric tons, a 65% reduction from AEP’s 2005 Scope 1 GHG emissions
(inclusive of emission reductions that result from plants that have been sold). AEP has made significant progress in
reducing CO emissions from its power generation fleet and expects its emissions to continue to decline. Technological
advances, including advanced energy storage, advanced nuclear reactors, hydrogen production and public policies are
among the factors that will determine how quickly AEP can achieve net-zero emissions while continuing to provide
reliable, affordable power for customers.2
2
2 
2
10
Other Environmental Issues and Matters
The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 imposes costs for
environmental remediation upon owners and previous owners of sites, as well as transporters and generators of
hazardous material disposed of at such sites.  See “The Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and
Liability Act (Superfund) and State Remediation” section of Note 6 included in the 2022 Annual Report for additional
information.
Environmental Investments
Investments related to improving AEP System plants’ environmental performance and compliance with environmental
quality standards during 2020, 2021 and 2022 and the current estimate for 2023 are shown below. Estimated
construction expenditures are subject to periodic review and modification and may vary based on the ongoing effects of
regulatory constraints, environmental regulations, business opportunities, market volatility, economic trends and the
ability to access capital.  In addition to the amounts set forth below, AEP expects to make investments in future years in
connection with the modification and addition at generation plants’ facilities for environmental quality controls.  Such
future investments are needed in order to comply with environmental standards that have been adopted and have
deadlines for compliance after 2022 or have been proposed and may be adopted.  Future investments could be
significantly greater if emissions reduction requirements are accelerated or otherwise become more stringent or in
response to rules governing the beneficial use and disposal of coal combustion by-products. The cost of complying with
applicable environmental laws, regulations and rules is expected to be significant to the AEP System. AEP typically
recovers costs of complying with environmental standards from customers through rates in regulated
jurisdictions.  Failure to recover these costs could reduce future net income and cash flows and possibly harm AEP’s
financial condition.  See “Environmental Issues” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations and Note 6 - Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies included in the 2022
Annual Report for additional information.
Historical and Projected Environmental Performance and Compliance
Investments
 2020 2021 2022 2023
 Actual Actual Actual Estimate (a)
 (in millions)
AEP (b) $ 102.2 $ 94.3 $ 225.9 $ 150.7 
APCo 21.3 60.0 129.0 65.9 
I&M 31.8 7.2 5.0 — 
PSO — — — 0.2 
SWEPCo (3.6) 3.9 18.2 4.8 
(a)Estimated amounts are exclusive of debt AFUDC.
(b)Includes expenditures of the subsidiaries shown and other subsidiaries not shown.
The figures reflect construction expenditures, not investments in subsidiary
companies.
Management currently estimates investments related to improving AEP System plants’ environmental performance and
compliance with environmental quality standards will be less than $100 million annually for the years 2024 through
2026. These cost estimates could change based on: (a) potential state rules that impose more stringent standards, (b)
additional rulemaking activities in response to court decisions, (c) actual performance of the pollution control
technologies installed, (d) changes in costs for new pollution controls, (e) new generating technology developments, (f)
total MWs of capacity retired and replaced, including the type and amount of such replacement capacity, (g)
compliance with the Federal EPA’s revised coal combustion residual rules and (h) timing of implementation.
11
HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
Attracting, developing and retaining high-performing employees with the skills and experience needed to serve our
customers efficiently and effectively is crucial to AEP’s growth and competitiveness and is central to our long-term
strategy. AEP invests in employees and continues to build a high performance and inclusive culture that inspires
leadership, encourages innovative thinking and welcomes everyone.
The following table shows AEP’s number of employees by subsidiary as of December 31, 2022:
SubsidiaryNumber of
Employees
AEPSC 6,572 
AEP Texas 1,594 
APCo 1,650 
I&M 2,016 
OPCo 1,713 
PSO 1,030 
SWEPCo 1,372 
Other 1,027 
Total AEP 16,974 
Of AEP’s 16,974 employees, less than 0.1% are Traditionalists (born before 1946), approximately 20% are Baby
Boomers (born 1946-1964), approximately 37% are Generation X (born 1965-1980), approximately 38% are
Millennials (born 1981-1996) and approximately 5% are Generation Z (born after 1996).
Safety
Achieving Zero Harm means every employee returns home at the end of their shift in the same condition as when they
came to work. Zero Harm is what we value most and commit to wholeheartedly. It is hard work, as it requires full focus
every moment of every day. We hold ourselves accountable and we are always striving to be better. AEP has put tools,
training and processes in place to strengthen our safety-first culture and mindset. AEP’s focus is on learning from
events and has proactive programs to prevent harm. One common industry safety metric utilized by AEP to track
incidents is the Days Away/Restricted or Transferred (DART) rate. A DART event is an event that results in one or
more lost days, one or more restricted days or results in an employee transferring to a different job within the company.
The DART rate is a mathematical calculation (number of DART events multiplied by 200,000 work hours and divided
by total YTD hours worked) that describes the number of recordable injuries per 100 full-time employees. In 2022,
AEP’s employee DART Rate performance improved to 0.424 as compared to 0.430 in 2021.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI)
AEP is committed to cultivating a diverse and inclusive environment that supports the development and advancement
of all. We foster an inclusive workplace that encourages diversity of thought, culture and background and actively work
to eliminate unconscious biases. DEI is a strategic priority for AEP and our efforts are guided by four principles:
•Establishing leadership accountability around DEI outcomes.
•Building and maintaining a workforce that reflects the communities we serve.
•Promoting an inclusive culture where all employees can thrive.
•Supporting the communities we serve so they will prosper.
We believe our workforce should generally reect the diversity of our customers and the communities we serve so that
we may better understand how to tailor our services to meet their expectations. As of December 31, 2022, women
comprised approximately 20% of AEP’s workforce and 20% was represented by racially or ethnically diverse
employees.
12
Our DEI progress is tied to enterprise, business unit and operating company annual incentive compensation objectives,
which is measured through our annual employee culture survey. In addition, the Human Resources Committee of the
Board of Directors provides oversight of our compensation and human resources policies and practices, including an
annual review of our diversity, equity and inclusion strategy, results of our culture survey and compliance with equal
opportunity laws.
AEP has taken actions to denounce all forms of racism in the wake of the racial and social unrest across the country in
recent years. To accelerate our diversity and inclusion strategy, AEP facilitates “Community Conversations” for
employees to discuss how race and equity issues impact the individual and the workplace and provide tools to take
action; provides "Mitigating Bias in Candidate Selection" training for all supervisors with a direct report and employees
involved in the interview process; created dedicated faith or meditation rooms; developed affirmative action plans for
all AEP sites with more than 50 employees; and, conducts pay equity studies to identify and address pay variances for
female and minority employees. We are also signatories of the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion pledge,
Paradigm for Parity and several other local and industry DEI initiatives to demonstrate our commitment to advancing
diversity and inclusion within the workplace.
In addition, we’re committed to working with the communities we serve to advance equity for our employees,
customers and neighbors of color. The American Electric Power Foundation created the Delivering on the Dream grant
program to help dismantle systemic racism and prejudice while prioritizing diversity, equity and inclusion. This five-
year, $5 million initial investment funds organizations with programs dedicated to advancing social justice in the
communities we serve.
Culture
AEP believes in doing the right thing every time for our customers, each other and our future. AEP leaders at all levels
are responsible for fostering an environment that supports a positive culture and for acting in a manner that positively
models it. A high-performance culture forms the foundation for long-term success. An engaged, collaborative and
empowered workforce is more likely to embrace a change mindset, drive continuous improvement, accept
accountability, meet expectations, take ownership, and value personal growth. AEP is committed to driving our culture
forward. Employees are given an opportunity to share their perspectives by participating in the Employee Culture
Survey, administered by Gallup, Inc., that measures the progress we are making in improving our culture. In addition to
engagement, the survey measures well-being and inclusiveness. In 2022, 86% of our organization participated in the
survey and we continued to improve our grand mean score to remain in the top decile compared to Gallup’s overall
company database. Additionally, in 2022, AEP received the Gallup Exceptional Workplace Award for the third
consecutive year. The award recognizes organizations with engaged workplace cultures. Company executives also have
candid meetings with employees to discuss our challenges, opportunities, what is going well and what can be even
better.
Employee Resource Groups
One of the best ways for AEP to demonstrate our commitment to a trusting and inclusive work environment is to
empower employees to form and participate in Employee Resource Groups (ERG). The ERGs at AEP include Abled
and Differently-Abled Partnering Together, the Black ERG, the Asian-American Employee Partnership ERG, the
Hispanic Origin Latin American ERG, the Military Veteran ERG, the Native American Tribes Interacting, Observing
and Networking ERG, the Pride Partnership and the Women at Work ERG. Our ERGs reflect the diverse makeup of our
workforce and enable us to gain valuable insight into the diverse communities we serve. They also help increase
engagement across AEP by providing employees with a safe space to discuss work-related issues and to develop
innovative solutions. ERGs play an active role in AEP’s diversity and inclusion efforts, including recruitment of new
employees.
13
Training and Professional Development
At AEP, we are preparing our workforce for the future by providing opportunities to learn new skills and engaging
higher education institutions to better prepare the next generation with the skills that we will need. AEP has training
alliances with several community colleges, universities and vocational and technical schools across our service
territory. We work with these institutions to develop academic programs that will prepare employees for upward
mobility opportunities and to attract external job seekers interested in careers in our industry. AEP also provides a broad
range of training and assistance that supports lifelong learning and transition development. This is especially important
as we move closer toward a digital future that requires a more flexible, innovative and diverse workforce. AEP has
robust processes to achieve this, including ongoing performance coaching, operational skills training, resources to
support our commitment to environment, safety and health, job progression training, tuition assistance, and other forms
of training that help employees improve their skills and become better leaders.
In 2022, AEP employees completed more than 950,000 hours of training in programs for which we track participation.
In addition, AEP invested more than $3 million in employee education, supporting approximately 1,000 employees
through our tuition reimbursement program.
Compensation and Benefits
AEP cares about the wellbeing of our employees and we recognize their importance to our success. We provide market
competitive compensation and benefits, including health, wellness and assistance programs to our employees and their
families to help them thrive at home and work. We ensure the pay we offer is competitive in the marketplace by market
pricing many of our positions using robust compensation survey information. Nearly all AEP employees participate in
an annual incentive program that rewards individual performance and achievement of business goals, which fosters a
high-performance culture. AEP also offers employees physical and mental health programs, including medical, dental
and life insurance, along with a health and well-being program to help employees and their families stay healthy and
feeling their best. Additionally, AEP’s retirement programs position our employees for financial stability in retirement.
Labor Relations
Nearly one fourth of AEP’s workforce is represented by labor unions. We value the relationships we have with our
union represented employees and believe in a trusting, collaborative and respectful partnership. We continuously work
to strengthen these relationships to ensure we have a culture that attracts and supports employees who can adapt to the
rapid changes occurring in our company and industry. Our partnership with labor unions is critical to meeting the
growing expectations of our customers and adapting to the challenges of rapidly changing technologies.
14
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
AEP’s Reportable Segments
AEP’s primary business is the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity.  Within its Vertically Integrated
Utilities segment, AEP centrally dispatches generation assets and manages its overall utility operations on an integrated
basis because of the substantial impact of cost-based rates and regulatory oversight.  Intersegment sales and transfers
are generally based on underlying contractual arrangements and agreements. AEP’s reportable segments are as follows:
•Vertically Integrated Utilities
•Transmission and Distribution Utilities
•AEP Transmission Holdco
•Generation & Marketing
The remainder of AEP’s activities is presented as Corporate and Other, which is not considered a reportable segment.
See Note 9 - Business Segments included in the 2022 Annual Report for additional information on AEP’s segments.
VERTICALLY INTEGRATED UTILITIES
GENERAL
AEP’s vertically integrated utility operations are engaged in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity
for sale to retail and wholesale customers through assets owned and operated by AEGCo, APCo, I&M, KGPCo, KPCo,
PSO, SWEPCo and WPCo.  AEPSC, as agent for AEP’s public utility subsidiaries, performs marketing, generation
dispatch, fuel procurement and power-related risk management and trading activities on behalf of each of these
subsidiaries.
ELECTRIC GENERATION
Facilities
As of December 31, 2022, AEP’s vertically integrated public utility subsidiaries owned approximately 23,500 MWs of
domestic generation.  See Item 2 – Properties for more information regarding the generation capacity of vertically
integrated public utility subsidiaries.
Fuel Supply
The following table shows the owned and leased generation sources by type (including wind purchase agreements), on
an actual net generation (MWhs) basis, used by the Vertically Integrated Utilities:
 2022 2021 2020
Coal and Lignite 43% 50% 45%
Nuclear 21% 22% 24%
Natural Gas 19% 16% 18%
Renewables 17% 12% 13%
An increase/decrease in one or more generation types relative to previous years reflects the addition of renewable
resources, retirement of traditional fossil fuel units and price changes in one or more fuel commodity sources relative to
the pricing of other fuel commodity sources. AEP’s overall 2022 fossil fuel costs for the Vertically Integrated Utilities
increased 1.1% on a dollar per MMBtu basis from 2021.
15
Coal and Lignite
AEP’s Vertically Integrated Utilities procure coal and lignite under a combination of purchasing arrangements including
long-term contracts, affiliate operations and spot agreements with various producers, marketers and coal trading
firms.  Coal and lignite consumption decreased 11% in 2022 from 2021 due to a combination of the retirement of Dolet
Hills Power Plant, lower amounts of lignite inventory available due to the planned retirement of the Pirkey Power Plant
in March 2023 and lower generation at the coal fired power plants.
Management projects that the Vertically Integrated Utilities will be able to secure and transport coal and lignite of
adequate quality and quantities to operate their coal and lignite-fired units; however, with current global dynamics and
demand, supplies could be a challenge. As of December 31, 2022, through subsidiaries, AEP owns, leases or controls
3,000 railcars, 319 barges, 4 towboats and a coal handling terminal with approximately 18 million tons of annual
capacity to move and store coal for use in AEP generating facilities. AEP will procure additional railcar and
barge/towboat capacity as needed based on demand.
Spot coal prices strengthened significantly in the back half of 2021 and continued to increase throughout 2022 for all
coal basins to all-time highs, with the exception of Powder River Basin coal which somewhat stabilized in 2022 to
more historical levels. These price increases were primarily due to increases in global and domestic demand for coal.
AEP’s strategy for purchasing coal includes layering in supplies over time. The price impact of this process is reflected
in subsequent periods and with the current elevated prices will drive delivered coal prices up over the next few years
for purchases made in 2021 and 2022. The price paid for coal and lignite delivered in 2022 increased approximately
10.6% from 2021 primarily due to the increase in coal prices from all coal basins.
The following table shows the amount of coal and lignite delivered to the Vertically Integrated Utilities’ plants during
the past three years and the average delivered price of coal and lignite purchased by the Vertically Integrated Utilities:
 2022 2021 2020
Total coal and lignite delivered to the plants (in millions of tons) 20.4 18.2 19.4 
Average cost per ton of coal and lignite delivered $ 56.16 $ 50.76 $ 53.95 
The coal supplies at the Vertically Integrated Utilities plants vary from time to time depending on various factors,
including, but not limited to, demand for electric power, unit outages, transportation infrastructure limitations, space
limitations, plant coal consumption rates, availability of acceptable coals, labor issues and weather conditions, which
may interrupt production or deliveries. As of December 31, 2022, the Vertically Integrated Utilities’ coal inventory was
approximately 35 days of full load burn. While inventory targets vary by plant and are changed as necessary, the current
coal inventory target for the Vertically Integrated Utilities is approximately 27 days of full load burn.
Natural Gas
The Vertically Integrated Utilities consumed approximately 126 billion cubic feet of natural gas during 2022 for
generating power. This represents an increase of 16.5% from 2021. Several of AEP’s natural gas-fired power plants are
connected to at least two pipelines which allow greater access to competitive supplies and improve delivery reliability.
A portfolio of term, seasonal, monthly and daily natural gas supply agreements and term natural gas transportation
agreements provide natural gas requirements for each plant, as appropriate. AEP’s natural gas supply transactions are
based on market prices.
The following table shows the amount of natural gas delivered to the Vertically Integrated Utilities’ plants during the
past three years and the average delivered price of natural gas purchased by the Vertically Integrated Utilities.
 2022 2021 2020
Total natural gas delivered to the plants (in billions cubic feet) 126.0 108.0 113.1 
Average delivered price per MMBtu of purchased natural gas $ 6.94 $ 8.92 $ 2.14 
16
Nuclear
I&M has made commitments to meet the current nuclear fuel requirements of the Cook Plant.  I&M has made and will
make purchases of uranium in various forms in the spot, short-term and mid-term markets.  
For purposes of the storage of high-level radioactive waste in the form of SNF, I&M completed modifications to its
SNF storage pool in the early 1990’s.  I&M entered into an agreement to provide for onsite dry cask storage of SNF to
permit normal operations to continue.  I&M is scheduled to conduct further dry cask loading and storage projects on an
ongoing periodic basis.  The year of expiration of each NRC Operating License is 2034 for Unit 1 and 2037 for Unit 2.
Management is currently evaluating applying for license extensions for both units.
Nuclear Waste and Decommissioning
As the owner of the Cook Plant, I&M has a significant future financial commitment to dispose of SNF and
decommission and decontaminate the plant safely.  The cost to decommission a nuclear plant is affected by NRC
regulations and the SNF disposal program.  The most recent decommissioning cost study was completed in 2021.  The
estimated cost of decommissioning and disposal of low-level radioactive waste for the Cook Plant was $2.2 billion in
2021 non-discounted dollars, with additional ongoing estimated costs of $7 million per year for post decommissioning
storage of SNF and an eventual estimated cost of $33 million for the subsequent decommissioning of the spent fuel
storage facility, also in 2021 non-discounted dollars. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the total decommissioning
trust fund balance for the Cook Plant was approximately $3 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively. The balance of funds
available to eventually decommission Cook Plant will differ based on contributions and investment returns.  The
ultimate cost of retiring the Cook Plant may be materially different from estimates and funding targets as a result of the:
• Escalation of various cost elements (including, but not limited to, general inflation and the cost of energy).
• Further development of regulatory requirements governing decommissioning.
• Technology available at the time of decommissioning differing significantly from that assumed in studies.
• Availability of nuclear waste disposal facilities.
• Availability of a United States Department of Energy facility for permanent storage of SNF.
Accordingly, management is unable to provide assurance that the ultimate cost of decommissioning the Cook Plant will
not be significantly different than current projections.  AEP will seek recovery from customers through regulated rates
if actual decommissioning costs exceed projections.  See the “Nuclear Contingencies” section of Note 6 -
Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies included in the 2022 Annual Report for additional information with
respect to nuclear waste and decommissioning.
Low-Level Radioactive Waste
The Low-Level Waste Policy Act of 1980 mandates that the responsibility for the disposal of low-level radioactive
waste rests with the individual states.  Low-level radioactive waste consists largely of ordinary refuse and other items
that have come in contact with radioactive materials.  Michigan does not currently have a disposal site for such waste
available.  I&M cannot predict when such a site may be available. However, the states of Utah and Texas have licensed
low-level radioactive waste disposal sites which currently accept low-level radioactive waste from Michigan waste
generators.  There is currently no set date limiting I&M’s access to either of these facilities.  The Cook Plant has a
facility onsite designed specifically for the storage of low-level radioactive waste.  In the event that low-level
radioactive waste disposal facility access becomes unavailable, it can be stored onsite at this facility.
17
Counterparty Risk Management
The Vertically Integrated Utilities segment also sells power and enters into related energy transactions with wholesale
customers and other market participants. As a result, counterparties and exchanges may require cash or cash related
instruments to be deposited on transactions as margin against open positions.  As of December 31, 2022, counterparties
posted approximately $14 million in cash, cash equivalents or letters of credit with AEPSC for the benefit of AEP’s
public utility subsidiaries (while, as of that date, AEP’s public utility subsidiaries posted approximately $207 million
with counterparties and exchanges).  Since open trading contracts are valued based on market prices of various
commodities, exposures change daily.  See the “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” section
of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in the 2022
Annual Report for additional information.
Certain Power Agreements
I&M
The UPA between AEGCo and I&M, dated March 31, 1982 (the I&M Power Agreement), provides for the sale by
AEGCo to I&M of all the capacity (and the energy associated therewith) available to AEGCo at the Rockport
Plant.  Whether or not power is available from AEGCo, I&M is obligated to pay a demand charge for the right to
receive such power (and an energy charge for any associated energy taken by I&M).  The I&M Power Agreement will
continue in effect until the debt obligations of AEGCo secured by the Rockport Plant have been satisfied and
discharged (currently expected to be December 2028).
In April 2021, AEGCo and I&M executed an agreement to purchase 100% of the interests in Rockport Plant, Unit 2
effective at the end of the lease term on December 7, 2022. Beginning December 8, 2022, AEGCo and I&M applied the
joint plant accounting model to their respective 50% undivided interests in the jointly owned Rockport Plant, Unit 2 as
well as any future investments made prior to the current estimated retirement date of December 2028.
Prior to the termination of the lease, I&M assigned 30% of the power to KPCo.  See the “UPA between AEGCo and
KPCo” section of Note 16 - Related Party Transactions for additional information. Beginning December 8, 2022,
AEGCo billed 100% of its share of the Rockport Plant to I&M and ceased billing to KPCo. KPCo reached an
agreement with I&M, from the end of the lease through May 2024, to buy capacity from Rockport Plant, Unit 2 through
the PCA at a rate equal to PJM’s RPM clearing price.
OVEC
AEP and several nonaffiliated utility companies jointly own OVEC.  The aggregate equity participation of AEP in
OVEC is 43.47%.  Parent owns 39.17% and OPCo owns 4.3%.  Under the Inter-Company Power Agreement (ICPA),
which defines the rights of the owners and sets the power participation ratio of each, the sponsoring companies are
entitled to receive and are obligated to pay for all OVEC capacity (approximately 2,400 MWs) in proportion to their
respective power participation ratios.  The aggregate power participation ratio of APCo, I&M and OPCo is 43.47%. 
The ICPA terminates in June 2040.  The proceeds from charges by OVEC to sponsoring companies under the ICPA
based on their power participation ratios are designed to be sufficient for OVEC to meet its operating expenses and
fixed costs.  OVEC’s Board of Directors, as elected by AEP and nonaffiliated owners, has authorized environmental
investments related to their ownership interests, with resulting expenses (including for related debt and interest thereon)
included in charges under the ICPA. OVEC financed capital expenditures in excess of $1 billion in connection with flue
gas desulfurization projects and the associated scrubber waste disposal landfills at its two generation plants through
debt issuances, including tax-advantaged debt issuances.  Both OVEC generation plants are operating with the new
environmental controls in-service.  See Note 17 - Variable Interest Entities and Equity Method Investments for
additional information.
18
ELECTRIC DELIVERY
General
Other than AEGCo, AEP’s vertically integrated public utility subsidiaries own and operate transmission and distribution
lines and other facilities to deliver electric power.  See Item 2 – Properties for more information regarding the
transmission and distribution lines.  Most of the transmission and distribution services are sold to retail customers of
AEP’s vertically integrated public utility subsidiaries in their service territories.  These sales are made at rates approved
by the state utility commissions of the states in which they operate, and in some instances, approved by the FERC.  See
Item 1. Business – Vertically Integrated Utilities – Regulation – Rates.  The FERC regulates and approves the rates for
both wholesale transmission transactions and wholesale generation contracts.  The use and the recovery of costs
associated with the transmission assets of the AEP vertically integrated public utility subsidiaries are subject to the
rules, principles, protocols and agreements in place with PJM and SPP, and as approved by the FERC. See Item 1.
Business – Vertically Integrated Utilities – Regulation – FERC.  As discussed below, some transmission services also
are separately sold to nonaffiliated companies.
Other than AEGCo, AEP’s vertically integrated public utility subsidiaries hold franchises or other rights to provide
electric service in various municipalities and regions in their service areas.  In some cases, these franchises provide the
utility with the exclusive right to provide electric service within a specific territory.  These franchises have varying
provisions and expiration dates.  In general, the operating companies consider their franchises to be adequate for the
conduct of their business.  For a discussion of competition in the sale of power, see Item 1. Business – Vertically
Integrated Utilities – Competition.
Transmission Agreement
APCo, I&M, KGPCo, KPCo and WPCo own and operate transmission facilities that are used to provide transmission
service under the PJM OATT and are parties to the TA.  OPCo, which is a subsidiary in AEP’s Transmission and
Distribution Utilities segment that provides transmission service under the PJM OATT, is also a party to the TA.  The
TA defines how the parties to the agreement share the revenues associated with their transmission facilities and the
costs of transmission service provided by PJM.  The TA has been approved by the FERC.
Transmission Coordination Agreement and Open Access Transmission Tariff
PSO, SWEPCo and AEPSC are parties to the TCA.  Under the TCA, a coordinating committee is charged with the
responsibility of: (a) overseeing the coordinated planning of the transmission facilities of the parties to the agreement,
including the performance of transmission planning studies, (b) the interaction of such subsidiaries with independent
system operators and other regional bodies interested in transmission planning and (c) compliance with the terms of the
OATT filed with the FERC and the rules of the FERC relating to such tariff.  Pursuant to the TCA, AEPSC has
responsibility for monitoring the reliability of their transmission systems and administering the OATT on behalf of the
other parties to the agreement.  The TCA also provides for the allocation among the parties of revenues collected for
transmission and ancillary services provided under the OATT.  These allocations have been determined by the FERC-
approved OATT for the SPP.
19
Regional Transmission Organizations
AEGCo, APCo, I&M, KGPCo, KPCo and WPCo are members of PJM, and PSO and SWEPCo are members of SPP
(both FERC-approved RTOs).  RTOs operate, plan and control utility transmission assets in a manner designed to
provide open access to such assets in a way that prevents discrimination between participants owning transmission
assets and those that do not.
REGULATION
General
AEP’s vertically integrated public utility subsidiaries’ retail rates and certain other matters are subject to traditional
cost-based regulation by the state utility commissions.  AEP’s vertically integrated public utility subsidiaries are also
subject to regulation by the FERC under the Federal Power Act with respect to wholesale power and transmission
service transactions.  I&M is subject to regulation by the NRC under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, with
respect to the operation of the Cook Plant.  AEP and its vertically integrated public utility subsidiaries are also subject
to the regulatory provisions of, much of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, which is administered by the FERC.
Rates
Historically, state utility commissions have established electric service rates on a cost-of-service basis, which is
designed to allow a utility an opportunity to recover its cost of providing service and to earn a reasonable return on its
investment used in providing that service.  A utility’s cost-of-service generally reflects its operating expenses, including
operation and maintenance expense, depreciation expense and taxes.  State utility commissions periodically adjust rates
pursuant to a review of: (a) a utility’s adjusted revenues and expenses during a defined test period and (b) such utility’s
level of investment.  Absent a legal limitation, such as a law limiting the frequency of rate changes or capping rates for
a period of time, a state utility commission can review and change rates on its own initiative.  Some states may initiate
reviews at the request of a utility, customer, governmental or other representative of a group of customers.  Such parties
may, however, agree with one another not to request reviews of or changes to rates for a specified period of time.
Public utilities have traditionally financed capital investments until the new asset is placed in-service.  Provided the
asset was found to be a prudent investment, it was then added to rate base and entitled to a return through rate
recovery.  Given long lead times in construction, the high costs of plant and equipment and volatile capital markets,
management actively pursues strategies to accelerate rate recognition of investments and cash flow.  AEP
representatives continue to engage state commissioners and legislators on alternative rate-making options to reduce
regulatory lag and enhance certainty in the process.  These options include pre-approvals, a return on construction work
in progress, rider/trackers, formula rates and the inclusion of future test-year projections into rates.
The rates of AEP’s vertically integrated public utility subsidiaries are generally based on the cost of providing
traditional bundled electric service (i.e., generation, transmission and distribution service).  Historically, the state
regulatory frameworks in the service area of the AEP vertically integrated public utility subsidiaries reflected specified
fuel costs as part of bundled (or, more recently, unbundled) rates or incorporated fuel adjustment clauses in a utility’s
rates and tariffs.  Fuel adjustment clauses permit periodic adjustments to fuel cost recovery from customers and
therefore provide protection against exposure to fuel cost changes.
The following state-by-state analysis summarizes the regulatory environment of certain major jurisdictions in which
AEP’s vertically integrated public utility subsidiaries operate.  Several public utility subsidiaries operate in more than
one jurisdiction.  See Note 4 - Rate Matters included in the 2022 Annual Report for more information regarding
pending rate matters.
20
Indiana
I&M provides retail electric service in Indiana at bundled rates approved by the IURC, with rates set on a forecasted
cost-of-service basis.  Indiana provides for timely fuel and purchased power cost recovery through a fuel cost recovery
mechanism.
Oklahoma
PSO provides retail electric service in Oklahoma at bundled rates approved by the OCC.  PSO’s rates are set on a cost-
of-service basis.  Fuel and purchased energy costs are recovered or refunded through a fuel adjustment clause.
Virginia
APCo currently provides retail electric service in Virginia at unbundled generation and distribution rates approved by
the Virginia SCC.  Virginia generally allows for timely recovery of fuel costs through a fuel cost recovery mechanism.
 In addition to base rates and fuel cost recovery, APCo is permitted to recover a variety of costs through rate adjustment
clauses including transmission services provided at OATT rates based on rates established by the FERC.
West Virginia
APCo and WPCo provide retail electric service at bundled rates approved by the WVPSC, with rates set on a combined
cost-of-service basis.  West Virginia generally allows for timely recovery of fuel costs through the ENEC which trues-
up to actual expenses. In addition to base rates and fuel cost recovery, APCo and WPCo are permitted to recover a
variety of costs through surcharges.
FERC
The FERC regulates rates for interstate power sales at wholesale, transmission of electric power, accounting and other
matters, including construction and operation of hydroelectric projects.  The FERC regulations require AEP’s vertically
integrated public utility subsidiaries to provide open access transmission service at FERC-approved rates, and AEP has
approved cost-based formula transmission rates on file at the FERC.  The FERC also regulates unbundled transmission
service to retail customers.  In addition, the FERC regulates the sale of power for resale in interstate commerce by: (a)
approving contracts for wholesale sales to municipal and cooperative utilities at cost-based rates and (b) granting
authority to public utilities to sell power at wholesale at market-based rates upon a showing that the seller lacks the
ability to improperly influence market prices.  AEP’s vertically integrated public utility subsidiaries have market-based
rate authority from the FERC, under which much of their wholesale marketing activity takes place.  The FERC requires
each public utility that owns or controls interstate transmission facilities, directly or through an RTO, to file an open
access network and point-to-point transmission tariff that offers services comparable to the utility’s own uses of its
transmission system.  The FERC also requires all transmitting utilities, directly or through an RTO, to establish an
Open Access Same-time Information System, which electronically posts transmission information such as available
capacity and prices, and requires utilities to comply with Standards of Conduct that prohibit utilities’ transmission
employees from providing non-public transmission information to the utility’s marketing employees. Additionally, the
vertically integrated public utility subsidiaries are subject to reliability standards promulgated by the NERC, with the
approval of the FERC.
The FERC oversees RTOs, entities created to operate, plan and control utility transmission assets.  AEGCo, APCo,
I&M, KGPCo, KPCo and WPCo are members of PJM.  PSO and SWEPCo are members of SPP.
The FERC has jurisdiction over certain issuances of securities of most of AEP’s public utility subsidiaries, the
acquisition of securities of utilities, the acquisition or sale of certain utility assets and mergers with another electric
utility or holding company.  In addition, both the FERC and state regulators are permitted to review the books and
records of any company within a holding company system.
21
COMPETITION
AEP’s vertically integrated public utility subsidiaries primarily generate, transmit and distribute electricity to retail
customers of AEP’s vertically integrated public utility subsidiaries in their service territories.  These sales are made at
rates approved by the state utility commissions of the states in which they operate, and in some instances, approved by
the FERC, and are not subject to competition from other vertically integrated public utilities.  Other than AEGCo,
AEP’s vertically integrated public utility subsidiaries hold franchises or other rights that effectively grant the exclusive
ability to provide electric service in various municipalities and regions in their service areas.  
AEP’s vertically integrated public utility subsidiaries compete with self-generation and with distributors of other energy
sources, such as natural gas, fuel oil, renewables and coal, within their service areas.  The primary factors in such
competition are price, reliability of service and the capability of customers to utilize alternative sources of energy other
than electric power. With respect to competing generators and self-generation, the public utility subsidiaries of AEP
believe that they currently maintain a competitive position. 
Changes in regulatory policies and advances in newer technologies for batteries or energy storage, fuel cells,
microturbines, wind turbines and photovoltaic solar cells are reducing costs of new technology to levels that are making
them competitive with some central station electricity production.  The costs of photovoltaic solar cells in particular
have continued to become increasingly competitive. The ability to maintain relatively low cost, efficient and reliable
operations and to provide cost-effective programs and services to customers are significant determinants of AEP’s
competitiveness.
SEASONALITY
The consumption of electric power is generally seasonal.  In many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during
the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time.  In other areas, power demand peaks during the
winter.  The pattern of this fluctuation may change due to the nature and location of AEP’s facilities and the terms of
power sale contracts into which AEP enters.  In addition, AEP has historically sold less power, and consequently earned
less income, when weather conditions are milder. Unusually mild weather in the future could diminish AEP’s results of
operations. Conversely, unusually extreme weather conditions could increase AEP’s results of operations.
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION UTILITIES
GENERAL
This segment consists of the transmission and distribution of electricity for sale to retail and wholesale customers
through assets owned and operated by AEP Texas and OPCo. OPCo is engaged in the transmission and distribution of
electric power to approximately 1,521,000 retail customers in Ohio.  OPCo purchases energy and capacity to serve
standard service offer customers and provides transmission and distribution services for all connected load. AEP Texas
is engaged in the transmission and distribution of electric power to approximately 1,094,000 retail customers through
REPs in west, central and southern Texas.
AEP’s transmission and distribution utility subsidiaries own and operate transmission and distribution lines and other
facilities to deliver electric power.  See Item 2 – Properties, for more information regarding the transmission and
distribution lines.  Transmission and distribution services are sold to retail customers of AEP’s transmission and
distribution utility subsidiaries in their service territories.  These sales are made at rates approved by the PUCT for AEP
Texas and by the PUCO and the FERC for OPCo.  The FERC regulates and approves the rates for wholesale
transmission transactions.  As discussed below, some transmission services also are separately sold to nonaffiliated
companies.
AEP’s transmission and distribution utility subsidiaries hold franchises or other rights to provide electric service in
various municipalities and regions in their service areas.  In some cases, these franchises provide the utility with the
exclusive right to provide electric service.  These franchises have varying provisions and expiration dates.  In general,
the operating companies consider their franchises to be adequate for the conduct of their business.
22
The use and the recovery of costs associated with the transmission assets of the AEP transmission and distribution
utility subsidiaries are subject to the rules, protocols and agreements in place with PJM and ERCOT, and as approved
by the FERC.  In addition to providing transmission services in connection with power sales in their service areas,
AEP’s transmission and distribution utility subsidiaries also provide transmission services for nonaffiliated companies
through RTOs.
Transmission Agreement
OPCo owns and operates transmission facilities that are used to provide transmission service under the PJM OATT;
OPCo is a party to the TA with other utility subsidiary affiliates. The TA defines how the parties to the agreement share
the revenues associated with their transmission facilities and the costs of transmission service provided by PJM. The
TA has been approved by the FERC.
Regional Transmission Organizations
OPCo is a member of PJM, a FERC-approved RTO.  RTOs operate, plan and control utility transmission assets to
provide open access to such assets in a way that prevents discrimination between participants owning transmission
assets and those that do not.  AEP Texas is a member of ERCOT.
REGULATION
OPCo provides distribution and transmission services to retail customers within its service territory at cost-based rates
approved by the PUCO or by the FERC.  AEP Texas sets its rates through a combination of base rate cases and interim
Transmission Cost of Services (TCOS) and Distribution Cost Recovery Factor (DCRF) filings.  AEP Texas may file
interim TCOS filings semi-annually and DCRF filings annually to update its rates to reflect changes in its net invested
capital. Transmission and distribution rates are established on a cost-of-service basis, which is designed to allow a
utility an opportunity to recover its cost of providing service and to earn a reasonable return on its investment used in
providing that service.  The cost-of-service generally reflects operating expenses, including operation and maintenance
expense, depreciation expense and taxes.  Utility commissions periodically adjust rates pursuant to a review of: (a) a
utility’s adjusted revenues and expenses during a defined test period and (b) such utility’s level of investment.
FERC
The FERC regulates rates for transmission of electric power, accounting and other matters.  The FERC regulations
require AEP to provide open access transmission service at FERC-approved rates, and it has approved cost-based
formula transmission rates on file at the FERC.  The FERC also regulates unbundled transmission service to retail
customers.  The FERC requires each public utility that owns or controls interstate transmission facilities to, directly or
through an RTO, file an open access network and point-to-point transmission tariff that offers services comparable to
the utility’s own uses of its transmission system.  The FERC also requires all transmitting utilities, directly or through
an RTO, to establish an Open Access Same-time Information System, which electronically posts transmission
information such as available capacity and prices, and requires utilities to comply with Standards of Conduct that
prohibit utilities’ transmission employees from providing non-public transmission information to the utility’s marketing
employees. In addition, both the FERC and state regulators are permitted to review the books and records of any
company within a holding company system. Additionally, the transmission and distribution utility subsidiaries are
subject to reliability standards as set forth by the NERC, with the approval of the FERC.
23
SEASONALITY
The delivery of electric power is generally seasonal.  In many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the
hot summer months.  In other areas, power demand peaks during the winter months.  The pattern of this fluctuation
may change due to the nature and location of AEP’s transmission and distribution facilities.  In addition, AEP
transmission and distribution has historically delivered less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather
conditions are milder.  In Texas, where there is residential decoupling, unusually mild weather in the future could
diminish AEP’s results of operations.  Conversely, unusually extreme weather conditions could increase AEP’s results
of operations.
AEP TRANSMISSION HOLDCO
GENERAL
AEPTHCo is a holding company for (a) AEPTCo, which is the direct holding company for the State Transcos and (b)
AEP’s Transmission Joint Ventures.
AEPTCo
AEPTCo wholly owns the State Transcos which are independent of, but respectively overlay, the following AEP
electric utility operating companies: APCo, I&M, KPCo, OPCo, PSO, SWEPCo and WPCo. The State Transcos
develop, own, operate and maintain their respective transmission assets. Assets of the State Transcos interconnect to
transmission facilities owned by the aforementioned operating companies and nonaffiliated transmission owners within
the footprints of PJM, MISO and SPP. APTCo, IMTCo, KTCo, OHTCo and WVTCo are located within PJM. IMTCo
also owns portions of the Greentown station assets located in MISO. OKTCo and SWTCo are located within SPP.
IMTCo, KTCo, OHTCo, OKTCo and WVTCo own and operate transmission assets in their respective jurisdictions. 
The Virginia SCC and WVPSC granted consent for APCo and APTCo to enter into a joint license agreement that will
support APTCo investment in the state of Tennessee. SWTCo does not currently own or operate transmission assets.
The State Transcos are regulated for rate-making purposes exclusively by the FERC and earn revenues through tariff
rates charged for the use of their electric transmission systems.  The State Transcos establish transmission rates each
year through formula rate filings with the FERC.  The rate filings calculate the revenue requirement needed to cover the
costs of operation and debt service and to earn an allowed ROE.  These rates are then included in an OATT for PJM,
MISO and SPP.
The State Transcos own, operate, maintain and invest in transmission infrastructure in order to maintain and enhance
system integrity and grid reliability, grid security, safety, reduce transmission constraints and facilitate interconnections
of new generating resources and new wholesale customers, as well as enhance competitive wholesale electricity
markets. A key part of AEP’s business is replacing and upgrading transmission facilities, assets and components of the
existing AEP System as needed to maintain reliability.
The State Transcos provide the capability to build, replace and upgrade existing facilities. As of December 31, 2022,
the State Transcos had $12.8 billion of transmission and other assets in-service with plans to construct approximately
$3.3 billion of additional transmission assets, excluding CWIP, through 2025. Additional investment in transmission
infrastructure is needed within PJM and SPP to maintain the required level of grid reliability, resiliency, security and
efficiency and to address an aging transmission infrastructure. Additional transmission facilities will be needed based
on changes in generating resources, such as wind or solar projects, generation additions or retirements and additional
new customer interconnections.  The State Transcos will continue their investment to enhance physical and cyber
security of assets, and are also investing in improving the telecommunication network that supports the operation and
control of the grid.
In October 2021, AEP entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement to sell KTCo to Liberty Utilities. The closing of the
sale is subject to receipt of FERC authorization under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act and clearance under the
Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976. See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 for
additional information.
24
AEPTHCO JOINT VENTURE INITIATIVES
AEP has established joint ventures with other electric utility companies for the purpose of developing, building and
owning transmission assets that seek to improve reliability and market efficiency and provide transmission access to
remote generation sources in North America (Transmission Joint Ventures). The Transmission Joint Ventures currently
include:
Joint Venture Name LocationProjected or Actual
Completion DateOwners
 (Ownership %)Total
Estimated/Actual
Project Costs at
CompletionApproved Return on
Equity
 (in millions)
ETT Texas (a) Berkshire Hathaway $ 4,100.0 (a) 9.6 %
 (ERCOT)  Energy (50%)    
   AEP (50%)    
Prairie Wind Kansas 2014 Evergy, Inc. (50%) 158.0 12.8 %
Berkshire Hathaway
Energy (25%)
   AEP (25%)      
Pioneer Indiana 2018 Duke Energy (50%) 191.0 10.52 %(b)
    AEP (50%)     
Transource Missouri 2016 Evergy, Inc. 310.5 11.1 %(c)
Missouri    (13.5%) (d)     
    AEP (86.5%) (d)     
Transource West 2019 Evergy, Inc. 86.0 10.5 %
West Virginia Virginia (13.5%) (d) 
AEP (86.5%) (d) 
Transource Maryland 2023 Evergy, Inc. 27.6 (e) 10.4 %
Maryland (13.5%) (d)
AEP (86.5%) (d)
Transource Pennsylvania 2023 Evergy, Inc. 243.6 (e) 10.4 %
Pennsylvania (13.5%) (d)
AEP (86.5%) (d)
Transource Oklahoma 2026 Evergy, Inc. 111.0(f) 10.0 %
Oklahoma  (13.5%)(d)
 AEP (86.5%) (d)
Transource Pennsylvania 2029 Evergy, Inc. 76.3 (g) 10.4 %
Energy (13.5%) (d)
AEP (86.5%) (d)
(a) ETT is undertaking multiple projects and the completion dates will vary for those projects. ETT’s investment in completed and active projects in ERCOT
is expected to be $4.1 billion.  Future projects will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
(b) In May 2020, Pioneer received FERC approval authorizing an ROE of 10.02% (10.52% inclusive of the RTO incentive adder of 0.5%).
(c) The ROE represents the weighted-average approved ROE based on the costs of two projects developed by Transource Missouri; the $64 million Iatan-
Nashua project (10.3%) and the $247 million Sibley-Nebraska City project (11.3%).
(d) AEP owns 86.5% of Transource Missouri, Transource West Virginia, Transource Maryland, Transource Pennsylvania and Transource Oklahoma through
its ownership interest in Transource Energy, LLC (Transource).  Transource is a joint venture with AEPTHCo and Evergy, Inc. formed to pursue
competitive transmission projects.  AEPTHCo and Evergy, Inc. own 86.5% and 13.5% of Transource, respectively.
(e) See “Independence Energy Connection Project” section of Note 4 for additional information.
(f) In 2016, Transource Kansas received approval from the FERC authorizing an ROE of 9.8% (10.3% inclusive of the RTO incentive adder of 0.5%) for
future competitive transmission projects in SPP. In October 2020, Transource was awarded the Sooner-Wekiwa project by SPP and the project was
assigned to Transource Kansas. In November 2020, Transource Kansas was renamed Transource Oklahoma. The project is expected to go in-service in
2026.
(g) In October 2022, Transource Energy’s North Delta A proposal was awarded by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities. The project is expected to go in-
service in 2029. The project consists of a new transmission substation with two transformers and nine breakers and will connect to existing transmission
lines.
Transource Missouri, Transource West Virginia, Transource Maryland, Transource Pennsylvania and Transource
Oklahoma are consolidated joint ventures by AEP.  All other joint ventures in the table above are not consolidated by
AEP. AEP’s joint ventures do not have employees.  Business services for the joint ventures are provided by AEPSC and
other AEP subsidiaries and the joint venture partners. In 2022, approximately 461 AEPSC employees and 294 operating
company employees provided service to one or more joint ventures.
25
REGULATION
The State Transcos and the Transmission Joint Ventures located outside of ERCOT establish transmission rates
annually through forward-looking formula rate filings with the FERC pursuant to FERC-approved implementation
protocols.  The protocols include a transparent, formal review process to ensure the updated transmission rates are
prudently-incurred and reasonably calculated. The IMTCo-owned Greentown station assets acquired from Duke Energy
Indiana, LLC in December 2018 are located in MISO. IMTCo utilizes a historic cost recovery model to recover MISO
assets.
The State Transcos’ and the Transmission Joint Ventures’ (where applicable) rates are included in the respective OATT
for PJM and SPP.  An OATT is the FERC rate schedule that provides the terms and conditions for transmission and
related services on a transmission provider’s transmission system.  The FERC requires transmission providers such as
PJM and SPP to offer transmission service to all eligible customers (for example, load-serving entities, power
marketers, generators and customers) on a non-discriminatory basis.
The FERC-approved formula rates establish the annual transmission revenue requirement (ATRR) and transmission
service rates for transmission owners in annual rate base filings with the FERC.  The formula rates establish rates for a
one-year period based on the current projects in-service and proposed projects for a defined timeframe.  The formula
rates also include a true-up calculation for the previous year’s billings, allowing for over/under-recovery of the
transmission owner’s ATRR.  PJM and SPP pay the transmission owners their ATRR for use of their facilities and bill
transmission customers taking service under the PJM and SPP OATTs, based on the terms and conditions in the
respective OATT for the service taken. Additionally, the State Transcos are subject to reliability standards promulgated
by the NERC, with the approval of the FERC.
Management continues to monitor the FERC’s 2019 Notice of Inquiry regarding base ROE policy, the FERC’s 2020
and 2021 supplemental Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NOPR) regarding transmission incentives policy, and various
other matters pending before the FERC with the potential to affect the transmission ROE methodology.
In April 2021, the FERC issued a supplemental NOPR proposing to modify its incentive for transmission owners that
join RTOs (RTO Incentive). Under the supplemental NOPR, the RTO Incentive would be modified such that a utility
would only be eligible for the RTO Incentive for the first three years after the utility joins a FERC-approved
Transmission Organization. This is a significant departure from a previous NOPR issued in 2020 seeking to increase the
RTO Incentive from 50 basis points to 100 basis points. The supplemental NOPR also required utilities that have
received the RTO Incentive for three or more years to submit, within 30 days of the effective date of a final rule, a
compliance filing to eliminate the incentive from its tariff prospectively. The supplemental NOPR was subject to a 60-
day comment period followed by a 30-day period for reply comments. In July 2021, AEP submitted reply comments.
AEP is awaiting a final rule from the FERC.
In the annual rate base filings described above, the State Transcos in aggregate filed rate base totals of $9.9 billion, $8.4
billion and $7 billion for 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.  The total filed transmission revenue requirements,
including prior year over/under-recovery of revenue and associated carrying charges were $1.7 billion, $1.4 billion and
$1.2 billion for 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
The rates of ETT, which is located in ERCOT, are determined by the PUCT.  ETT sets its rates through a combination
of base rate cases and interim Transmission Cost of Services (TCOS) filings.  ETT may file interim TCOS filings semi-
annually to update its rates to reflect changes in its net invested capital.
26
GENERATION & MARKETING
GENERAL
The AEP Generation & Marketing segment subsidiaries consist of a wholesale energy trading and marketing business, a
retail supply and energy management business and competitive generating assets.  
AEP Energy Supply, LLC is a holding company with several divisions, including AEP Renewables and AEP OnSite
Partners.
AEP Renewables develops, owns and operates utility scale renewable projects backed with long-term contracts with
creditworthy counterparties throughout the United States.  AEP Renewables works directly with stakeholders to ensure
that customers have clean, sustainable renewable energy to meet their environmental goals.  As of December 31,
2022, AEP Renewables owned projects operating in 11 states, including approximately 1,200 MWs of installed wind
capacity and 165 MWs of installed solar capacity.  In October 2019, AEP Renewables entered into an agreement to
construct Flat Ridge 3, a wind farm in Kansas.  The 128 MW facility was placed into service in December 2021. In
November 2020, AEP Renewables signed a Purchase and Sale Agreement to acquire 75% of the Dry Lake Solar
Project, a 100 MW solar facility in southern Nevada. This facility was placed into service in May 2021. In February
2022, AEP management announced the beginning of a process to sell all or a portion of AEP Renewables’ competitive
contracted renewables portfolio. For more information on the pending sale of the competitive contracted renewables
portfolio, see the “Contracted Renewable Generation Facilities” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis.
AEP OnSite Partners works directly with wholesale and large retail customers to provide tailored solutions to reduce
their energy costs based upon market knowledge, innovative applications of technology and deal
structuring capabilities.  AEP OnSite Partners targets opportunities in distributed solar, combined heat and power,
energy storage, waste heat recovery, energy efficiency, peaking generation and other energy solutions that create value
for customers.  AEP OnSite Partners pursues and develops behind the meter projects with creditworthy customers.  As
of December 31, 2022, AEP OnSite Partners owned projects located in 22 states, including approximately 168 MWs of
installed solar capacity, and approximately 26 MWs of solar projects under construction.
With respect to the wholesale energy trading and marketing business, AEP Generation & Marketing segment
subsidiaries enter into short-term and long-term transactions to buy or sell capacity, energy and ancillary services in
ERCOT, SPP, MISO and PJM.  These subsidiaries sell power into the market and engage in power, natural gas and
emissions allowances risk management and trading activities.  These activities primarily involve the purchase-and-sale
of electricity (and to a lesser extent, natural gas and emissions allowances) under forward contracts at fixed and
variable prices.  These contracts include physical transactions, exchange-traded futures, and to a lesser extent, OTC
swaps and options.  The majority of forward contracts are typically settled by entering into offsetting contracts.  These
transactions are executed with numerous counterparties or on exchanges.
With respect to the retail supply and energy management business, AEP Energy is a retail energy supplier that supplies
electricity and/or natural gas to residential, commercial, and industrial customers.  AEP Energy provides various energy
solutions in Illinois, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, Ohio and Washington, D.C.  AEP Energy had
approximately 736,000 customer accounts as of December 31, 2022. AEP has initiated a strategic evaluation of its
ownership in AEP Energy. Potential alternatives may include, but are not limited to, continued ownership or a sale of all
or a part of AEP Energy. Management has not made a decision regarding the potential alternatives, but expects to
complete the strategic evaluation in the first half of 2023.
The primary fossil generation subsidiary in the Generation & Marketing segment has historically been AGR. However,
in the third quarter 2022, AGR sold the 595 MW Cardinal Plant, its last remaining fossil generation. Other subsidiaries
in this segment own or have the right to receive power from additional generation assets. See Item 2 – Properties for
more information regarding the generation assets of the Generation & Marketing segment.
27
REGULATION
AGR is a public utility under the Federal Power Act, and is subject to the FERC’s exclusive rate-making jurisdiction
over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce. Under the Federal Power
Act, the FERC has the authority to grant or deny market-based rates for sales of energy, capacity and ancillary services
to ensure that such sales are just and reasonable.  The FERC granted AGR market-based rate authority in December
2013.  The FERC’s jurisdiction over rate-making also includes the authority to suspend the market-based rates of AGR
and set cost-based rates if the FERC subsequently determines that it can exercise market power, create barriers to entry
or engage in abusive affiliate transactions.  Periodically, AGR is required to file a market power update to show that it
continues to meet the FERC’s standards with respect to generation market power and other criteria used to evaluate
whether it continues to qualify for market-based rates.  Other matters subject to the FERC jurisdiction include, but are
not limited to, review of mergers, and dispositions of jurisdictional facilities and acquisitions of securities of another
public utility or an existing operational generating facility.
Specific operations of AGR are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other federal, state, regional and local
agencies, including federal and state environmental protection agencies.  AGR is also regulated by the PUCT for
transactions inside ERCOT.  Additionally, AGR is subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the NERC,
with the approval of the FERC.
COMPETITION
The AEP Generation & Marketing segment subsidiaries face competition for the sale of available power, capacity and
ancillary services.  The principal factors of impact are electricity and fuel prices, new market entrants, construction or
retirement of generating assets by others and technological advances in power generation. Other factors impacting
competitiveness include environmental regulation, transmission congestion or transportation constraints at or near
generation facilities, inoperability or inefficiencies, outages and deactivations and retirements at generation facilities.
Technology advancements, increased demand for clean energy, changing consumer behaviors, low-priced and abundant
natural gas, and regulatory and public policy reforms are among the catalysts for transformation within the industry that
impact competition for AEP’s Generation & Marketing segment. AGR also competes with self-generation and with
distributors of other energy sources, such as natural gas, fuel oil, renewables and coal, within their service areas.  The
primary factors in such competition are price, unit availability and the capability of customers to utilize sources of
energy other than electric power.
Changes in regulatory policies and advances in newer technologies for batteries or energy storage, fuel cells,
microturbines, wind turbines and photovoltaic solar cells are reducing costs of new technology to levels that are making
them competitive with some central station electricity production.  The ability to maintain relatively low cost, efficient
and reliable operations and to provide cost-effective programs and services to customers are significant determinants of
AGR’s competitiveness. The costs of photovoltaic solar cells in particular have continued to become increasingly
competitive.
This segment’s retail operations provide competitive electricity and natural gas in deregulated retail energy markets in
six states and Washington, D.C. Each such retail choice jurisdiction establishes its own laws and regulations governing
its competitive market, and public utility commission communications and utility default service pricing can affect
customer participation in retail competition. Sustained low natural gas and power prices, low market volatility and
maturing competitive environments can adversely affect this business.
This segment also engages in procuring and selling output from renewable generation sources under long-term
contracts to creditworthy counterparties.  New sources are not acquired without first securing a long-term placement of
such power.  Existing sources do not face competitive exposure.  Competitive nonaffiliated suppliers of renewable or
other generation could limit opportunities for future transactions for new sources and related output contracts.
28
SEASONALITY
The consumption of electric power is generally seasonal.  In many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during
the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time.  In other areas, power demand peaks during the
winter months.  The pattern of this fluctuation may change.
Fuel Supply
The following table shows the generation sources by type, on an actual net generation (MWhs) basis, used by the
Generation & Marketing segment:
2022 2021 2020
Coal 41% 38% 46%
Renewables 59% 62% 54%
Counterparty Risk Management
Counterparties and exchanges may require cash or cash related instruments to be deposited on these transactions as
margin against open positions.  As of December 31, 2022, counterparties posted approximately $498 million in cash,
cash equivalents or letters of credit with AEP for the benefit of AEP’s Generation & Marketing segment subsidiaries
(while, as of that date, AEP’s Generation & Marketing segment subsidiaries posted approximately $115 million with
counterparties and exchanges).  Since open trading contracts are valued based on market prices of various commodities,
exposures change daily.  See the “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” section of
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in the 2022 Annual
Report for additional information.
Certain Power Agreements
As of December 31, 2022, the assets utilized in this segment included approximately 1,200 MWs of company-owned
domestic wind power facilities and 177 MWs of domestic wind power from long-term purchase power agreements.
Additional long term purchased power agreements have been entered into for 77 MWs of wind that are operating and
an additional 640 MWs of wind and 1,659 MWs of solar capacity which are all seeking permits or under construction.
These agreements are all contingent on completion of construction which is expected by the end of 2025.
In March 2022, AGR entered into an Asset Purchase agreement with a nonaffiliated electric cooperative to sell Cardinal
Plant, Unit 1, a competitive generation asset totaling 595 MWs. The FERC approved the sale in May 2022 and the sale
closed in the third quarter of 2022. The proceeds from the sale were not material. Concurrent with the closing of the
sale, AGR executed a PPA with the nonaffiliated electric cooperative for rights to Unit 1’s power and capacity through
2028. AGR also retained certain obligations related to environmental remediation.
29
INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
The following persons are executive officers of AEP.  Their ages are given as of February 23, 2023.  The officers are
appointed annually for a one-year term by the board of directors of AEP.
Julia A. Sloat
President and Chief Executive Officer
Age 53
President since August 2022 and Chief Executive Officer since January 2023. Executive Vice President from January 2021 to
August 2022, Chief Financial Officer from January 2021 to November 2022. Senior Vice President, Treasury & Risk and Treasurer
from January 2019 to December 2020. President and Chief Operating Officer of OPCo from May 2016 to December 2018.
Nicholas K. Akins
Executive Chair of the Board of Directors
Age 62
Chairman of the Board from January 2014 to December 2022, President from January 2011 to August 2022 and Chief Executive
Officer from November 2011 to December 2022.
Christian T. Beam
Executive Vice President - Energy Services
Age 54
Executive Vice President - Energy Services since September 2022. President and Chief Operating Officer of APCo from January
2017 to September 2022. Vice President, Projects Controls & Construction from January 2013 to December 2016.
David M. Feinberg
Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
Age 53
Executive Vice President since January 2013. General Counsel and Secretary since January 2012.
Greg B. Hall
Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer
Age 50
Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer since September 2022. Executive Vice President - Energy Supply from
July 2021 to September 2022. President and Chief Operating Officer of AEP Energy Supply LLC since July 2021. President of AEP
Energy, Inc. since May 2017. President of AEP Energy Partners, Inc. since June 2007.
Ann P. Kelly
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Age 52
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since November 2022. Vice President - Finance and Chief Financial Officer
of AmeriGas Propane, Inc., a subsidiary of UGI Corporation since February 2019. Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting
Officer of UGI Corporation from March 2018 to February 2019. Assistant Treasurer of UGI Corporation from May 2016 to March
2018.
Therace M. Risch
Executive Vice President and Chief Information & Technology Officer
Age 49
Executive Vice President since July 2021. Chief Information & Technology Officer since May 2020. Senior Vice President from
April 2020 to July 2021.
Peggy I. Simmons
Executive Vice President - Utilities
Age 45
Executive Vice President - Utilities since September 2022. President and Chief Operating Officer of PSO from September 2018 to
September 2022.
30
Raja Sundararajan
Executive Vice President - External Affairs
Age 48
Executive Vice President - External Affairs since July 2022. Senior Vice President - Regulatory and Customer Solutions from July
2021 to July 2022. President and Chief Operating Officer of AEP Ohio from January 2019 to July 2021. Vice President-Regulatory
Services September 2016 to December 2018.
Phillip R. Ulrich
Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer
Age 52
Executive Vice President since January 2023. Chief Human Resources Officer since August 2021. Senior Vice President from
August 2021 to December 2022. Chief Human Resources Officer of Flex, LTD from May 2019 to July 2021. Senior Vice President,
Human Resources, Electrical Sector of Eaton from August 2016 to May 2019.
Charles E. Zebula
Executive Vice President - Portfolio Optimization
Age 62
Executive Vice President - Portfolio Optimization since July 2021. Executive Vice President - Energy Supply from January 2013 to
July 2021.
31
ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS
GENERAL RISKS OF REGULATED OPERATIONS
AEP may not be able to recover the costs of substantial planned investment in capital improvements and additions.
(Applies to all Registrants)
AEP’s business plan calls for extensive investment in capital improvements and additions, including the construction of
additional transmission and renewable generation facilities, modernizing existing infrastructure, installation of
environmental upgrades and retrofits as well as other initiatives.  AEP’s public utility subsidiaries currently provide
service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions.  If these regulatory commissions do not approve
adjustments to the rates charged, affected AEP subsidiaries would not be able to recover the costs associated with their
investments.  This would cause financial results to be diminished.
Regulated electric revenues and earnings are dependent on federal and state regulation that may limit AEP’s ability
to recover costs and other amounts. (Applies to all Registrants)
The rates customers pay to AEP regulated utility businesses are subject to approval by the FERC and the respective
state utility commissions of Arkansas, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Ohio, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas,
Virginia and West Virginia. In certain instances, AEP’s applicable regulated utility businesses may agree to negotiated
settlements related to various rate matters that are subject to regulatory approval. AEP cannot predict the ultimate
outcomes of any settlements or the actions by the FERC or the respective state commissions in establishing rates.
If regulated utility earnings exceed the returns established by the relevant commissions, retail electric rates may be
subject to review and possible reduction by the commissions, which may decrease future earnings. Additionally, if
regulatory bodies do not allow recovery of costs incurred in providing service on a timely basis, it could reduce future
net income and cash flows and negatively impact financial condition. Similarly, if recovery or other rate relief
authorized in the past is overturned or reversed on appeal, future earnings could be negatively impacted. Any regulatory
action or litigation outcome that triggers a reversal of a regulatory asset or deferred cost generally results in an
impairment to the balance sheet and a charge to the income statement of the company involved. See Note 4 – Rate
Matters included in the 2022 Annual Report for additional information.
AEP’s transmission investment strategy and execution are dependent on federal and state regulatory policy. (Applies
to all Registrants)
A significant portion of AEP’s earnings is derived from transmission investments and activities.  FERC policy currently
favors the expansion and updating of the transmission infrastructure within its jurisdiction.  If the FERC were to adopt
a different policy, if states were to limit or restrict such policies, or if transmission needs do not continue or develop as
projected, AEP’s strategy of investing in transmission could be impacted.  Management believes AEP’s experience with
transmission facilities construction and operation gives AEP an advantage over other competitors in securing
authorization to install, construct and operate new transmission lines and facilities.  However, there can be no assurance
that PJM, SPP, ERCOT or other RTOs will authorize new transmission projects or will award such projects to AEP.  
Certain elements of AEP’s transmission formula rates have been challenged, which could result in lowered rates
and/or refunds of amounts previously collected and thus have an adverse effect on AEP’s business, financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows. (Applies to all Registrants other than AEP Texas)
AEP provides transmission service under rates regulated by the FERC. The FERC has approved the cost-based formula
rate templates used by AEP to calculate its respective annual revenue requirements, but it has not expressly approved
the amount of actual capital and operating expenditures to be used in the formula rates. All aspects of AEP’s rates
accepted or approved by the FERC, including the formula rate templates, the rates of return on the
32
actual equity portion of its respective capital structures and the approved targeted capital structures, are subject to
challenge by interested parties at the FERC, or by the FERC on its own initiative. In addition, interested parties may
challenge the annual implementation and calculation by AEP of its projected rates and formula rate true-up pursuant to
its approved formula rate templates under AEP’s formula rate implementation protocols. If a challenger can establish
that any of these aspects are unjust, unreasonable, unduly discriminatory or preferential, then the FERC can make
appropriate prospective adjustments to them and/or disallow any of AEP’s inclusion of those aspects in the rate setting
formula.
Inquiries related to rates of return, as well as challenges to the formula rates of other utilities, are ongoing in other
proceedings at the FERC.  The results of these proceedings could potentially negatively impact AEP in any future
challenges to AEP’s formula rates.  If the FERC orders revenue reductions, including refunds, in any future cases
related to its formula rates, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.
End-use consumers and entities supplying electricity to end-use consumers may also attempt to influence government
and/or regulators to change the rate setting methodologies that apply to AEP, particularly if rates for delivered
electricity increase substantially.
AEP faces risks related to project siting, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals and the
negotiation of project development agreements that may impede their development and operating activities. (Applies
to all Registrants)
AEP owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities. A
key component of AEP's growth is its ability to construct and operate these facilities. As part of these operations AEP
must periodically apply for licenses and permits from various local, state, federal and other regulatory authorities and
abide by their respective conditions. Should AEP be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits on
acceptable terms or resolving third-party challenges to such licenses or permits, should there be a delay in obtaining or
renewing necessary licenses or permits or should regulatory authorities initiate any associated investigations or
enforcement actions or impose related penalties or disallowances, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and
impact financial condition. Any failure to negotiate successful project development agreements for new facilities with
third-parties could have similar results.
Changes in technology and regulatory policies may lower the value of electric utility facilities and franchises.
(Applies to all Registrants)
AEP primarily generates electricity at large central facilities and delivers that electricity to customers over its
transmission and distribution facilities to customers usually situated within an exclusive franchise. This method results
in economies of scale and generally lower costs than newer technologies such as fuel cells and microturbines, and
distributed generation using either new or existing technology.  Other technologies, such as light emitting diodes
(LEDs), increase the efficiency of electricity and, as a result, lower the demand for it.   Changes in regulatory policies
and advances in batteries or energy storage, wind turbines and photovoltaic solar cells are reducing costs of new
technology to levels that are making them competitive with some central station electricity production and delivery. 
These developments can challenge AEP’s competitive ability to maintain relatively low cost, efficient and reliable
operations, to establish fair regulatory mechanisms and to provide cost-effective programs and services to
customers.  Further, in the event that alternative generation resources are mandated, subsidized or encouraged through
legislation or regulation or otherwise are economically competitive and added to the available generation supply, such
resources could displace a higher marginal cost generating units, which could reduce the price at which market
participants sell their electricity.
33
AEP may not recover costs incurred to begin construction on projects that are canceled. (Applies to all Registrants)
AEP’s business plan for the construction of new projects involves a number of risks, including construction delays,
non-performance by equipment and other third-party suppliers and increases in equipment and labor costs.  To limit the
risks of these construction projects, AEP’s subsidiaries enter into equipment purchase orders and construction contracts
and incur engineering and design service costs in advance of receiving necessary regulatory approvals and/or siting or
environmental permits.  If any of these projects are canceled for any reason, including failure to receive necessary
regulatory approvals and/or siting or environmental permits, significant cancellation penalties under the equipment
purchase orders and construction contracts could occur.  In addition, if any construction work or investments have been
recorded as an asset, an impairment may need to be recorded in the event the project is canceled.
AEP is exposed to nuclear generation risk. (Applies to AEP and I&M)
I&M owns the Cook Plant, which consists of two nuclear generating units for a rated capacity of 2,296 MWs, or about
a tenth of the regulated generating capacity in the AEP System.  AEP and I&M are, therefore, subject to the risks of
nuclear generation, which include the following:
•The potential harmful effects on the environment and human health due to an adverse incident/event resulting
from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials such as
SNF.
•Limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in
connection with nuclear operations.
•Uncertainties with respect to contingencies and assessment amounts triggered by a loss event (federal law
requires owners of nuclear units to purchase the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance and
potentially contribute to the coverage for losses of others).
•Uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the
end of their licensed lives.
There can be no assurance that I&M’s preparations or risk mitigation measures will be adequate if these risks are
triggered.
The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of
nuclear generation facilities.  In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a
unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved.  Revised
safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants.  In
addition, although management has no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at the Cook Plant, if an incident
did occur, it could harm results of operations or financial condition.  A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in
the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit.  Moreover, a
major incident at any nuclear facility in the U.S. could require AEP or I&M to make material contributory payments.
Costs associated with the operation (including fuel), maintenance and retirement of nuclear plants continue to be more
significant and less predictable than costs associated with other sources of generation, in large part due to changing
regulatory requirements and safety standards, availability of nuclear waste disposal facilities and experience gained in
the operation of nuclear facilities.  Costs also may include replacement power, any unamortized investment at the end
of the useful life of the Cook Plant (whether scheduled or premature), the carrying costs of that investment and
retirement costs.  The ability to obtain adequate and timely recovery of costs associated with the Cook Plant is not
assured.
34
AEP subsidiaries are exposed to risks through participation in the market and transmission structures in various
regional power markets that are beyond their control. (Applies to all Registrants)
Results are likely to be affected by differences in the market and transmission structures in various regional power
markets.  The rules governing the various RTOs, including SPP and PJM, may also change from time to time which
could affect costs or revenues.  Existing, new or changed rules of these RTOs could result in significant additional fees
and increased costs to participate in those structures, including the cost of transmission facilities built by others due to
changes in transmission rate design. In addition, these RTOs may assess costs resulting from improved transmission
reliability, reduced transmission congestion and firm transmission rights. As members of these RTOs, AEP’s
subsidiaries are subject to certain additional risks, including the allocation among existing members, of losses caused
by unreimbursed defaults of other participants in these markets and resolution of complaint cases that may seek refunds
of revenues previously earned by members of these markets.
AEP could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards. (Applies to all
Registrants)
Owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated
by the NERC and enforced by the FERC.  The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure
the bulk power system operates reliably and are guided by reliability and market interface principles.  Compliance with
new reliability standards may subject AEP to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures.  While
management expects to recover costs and expenditures from customers through regulated rates, there can be no
assurance that the applicable commissions will approve full recovery in a timely manner.  If AEP were found not to be
in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, AEP could be subject to sanctions, including substantial
monetary penalties, which likely would not be recoverable from customers through regulated rates.
A substantial portion of the receivables of AEP Texas is concentrated in a small number of REPs, and any delay or
default in payment could adversely affect its cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. (Applies to
AEP and AEP Texas)
AEP Texas collects receivables from the distribution of electricity from REPs that supply the electricity it distributes to
its customers. As of December 31, 2022, AEP Texas did business with approximately 127 REPs. Adverse economic
conditions, structural problems in the market served by ERCOT or financial difficulties of one or more REPs could
impair the ability of these REPs to pay for these services or could cause them to delay such payments. AEP Texas
depends on these REPs to remit payments on a timely basis. Applicable regulatory provisions require that customers be
shifted to another REP or a provider of last resort if a REP cannot make timely payments. Applicable PUCT regulations
significantly limit the extent to which AEP Texas can apply normal commercial terms or otherwise seek credit
protection from firms desiring to provide retail electric service in its service territory, and AEP Texas thus remains at
risk for payments related to services provided prior to the shift to another REP or the provider of last resort. In 2022,
AEP Texas’ two largest REPs accounted for 45% of its operating revenue. Any delay or default in payment by REPs
could adversely affect cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. If a REP were unable to meet its
obligations, it could consider, among various options, restructuring under the bankruptcy laws, in which event such
REP might seek to avoid honoring its obligations, and claims might be made by creditors involving payments AEP
Texas had received from such REP.
Ohio House Bill 6 (HB 6), which provides for beneficial cost recovery for OPCo and for plants owned by OVEC, has
come under public scrutiny. (Applies to AEP and OPCo)
In 2019, Ohio adopted and implemented HB 6 which benefits OPCo by authorizing rate recovery for certain costs
including renewable energy contracts, OVEC’s coal-fired generating units and energy efficiency measures. AEP and
OPCo engaged in lobbying efforts and provided testimony during the legislative process in connection with HB 6. In
July 2020, an investigation led by the U.S. Attorney’s Office resulted in a federal grand jury indictment of an Ohio
legislator and associates in connection with an alleged racketeering conspiracy involving the adoption of HB
35
6. The outcome of the U.S. Attorney’s Office investigation and its impact on HB 6 is not known. If certain provisions of
HB 6 were to be eliminated, it is unclear whether new legislation addressing similar issues would be adopted. To the
extent that OPCo is unable to recover the costs currently authorized by HB 6, it could reduce future net income and
cash flows and impact financial condition. In addition, the impact of continued public scrutiny of HB 6 is not known,
and may have an adverse impact on AEP and OPCo, including their relationship with regulatory and legislative
authorities, customers and other stakeholders. AEP is a defendant in current litigation relating to HB 6 and AEP or
OPCo may be involved in future litigation.
RISKS RELATED TO MARKET, ECONOMIC OR FINANCIAL VOLATILITY AND OTHER RISKS
AEP’s financial performance may be adversely affected if AEP is unable to successfully operate facilities or perform
certain corporate functions. (Applies to all Registrants)
Performance is highly dependent on the successful operation of generation, transmission and/or distribution
facilities.  Operating these facilities involves many risks, including:
• Operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment or processes.
• Operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements.
• Labor disputes.
• Compliance with mandatory reliability standards, including mandatory cyber security standards.
• Information technology failure that impairs AEP’s information technology infrastructure or disrupts normal
business operations.
• Information technology failure that affects AEP’s ability to access customer information or causes loss of
confidential or proprietary data that materially and adversely affects AEP’s reputation or exposes AEP to
legal claims.
• Supply chain disruptions and inflation.
• Fuel or water supply interruptions caused by transportation constraints, adverse weather such as drought,
non-performance by suppliers and other factors.
• Catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, hurricanes, tornados, ice storms, terrorism
(including cyber-terrorism), floods or other similar occurrences.
• Fuel costs and related requirements triggered by financial stress in the coal industry.
Physical attacks or hostile cyber intrusions could severely impair operations, lead to the disclosure of
confidential information and damage AEP’s reputation. (Applies to all Registrants)
AEP and its regulated utility businesses face physical security and cybersecurity risks as the owner-operators of
generation, transmission and/or distribution facilities and as participants in commodities trading. AEP and its regulated
utility businesses own assets deemed as critical infrastructure, the operation of which is dependent on information
technology systems. Further, the computer systems that run these facilities are not completely isolated from external
networks. Parties that wish to disrupt the U.S. bulk power system or AEP operations could view these computer
systems, software or networks as targets for cyber-attack.  The Federal government has notified the owners and
operators of critical infrastructure, such as AEP, that the conflict between Russia and Ukraine has increased the
likelihood of a cyber-attack on such systems. In addition, the electric utility business requires the collection of sensitive
customer data, as well as confidential employee and shareholder information, which is subject to electronic theft or
loss.
A security breach of AEP or its regulated utility businesses’ physical assets or information systems, interconnected
entities in RTOs, or regulators could impact the operation of the generation fleet and/or reliability of the transmission
and distribution system. AEP and its regulated utility businesses could be subject to financial harm associated with
ransomware theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information, including sensitive customer, vendor,
employee, trading or other confidential data. A successful cyber-attack on the systems that control generation,
transmission, distribution or other assets could severely disrupt business operations, preventing service to customers or
collection of revenues. The breach of certain business systems could affect the ability to
36
correctly record, process and report financial information. A major cyber incident could result in significant expenses to
investigate and repair security breaches or system damage and could lead to litigation, fines, other remedial action,
heightened regulatory scrutiny and damage to AEP’s reputation. In addition, the misappropriation, corruption or loss of
personally identifiable information and other confidential data could lead to significant breach notification expenses
and mitigation expenses such as credit monitoring.  AEP and its third-party vendors have been subject, and will likely
continue to be subject, to attempts to gain unauthorized access to their technology systems and confidential data or to
attempts to disrupt utility and related business operations. While there have been immaterial incidents of phishing,
unauthorized access to technology systems, financial fraud, and disruption of remote access across the AEP System,
there has been no material impact on business or operations from these attacks. However, AEP cannot guarantee that
security efforts will detect or prevent breaches, operational incidents, or other breakdowns of technology systems and
network infrastructure and cannot provide any assurance that such incidents will not have a material adverse effect in
the future.
The amount of taxes imposed on AEP could change. (Applies to all Registrants)
AEP is subject to income taxation at the federal level and by certain states and municipalities. In determining AEP’s
income tax liability for these jurisdictions, management monitors changes to the applicable tax laws and related
regulations, including tax incentives and credits designed to support the sale of energy from utility scale renewable
energy facilities. While management believes AEP complies with current prevailing laws, one or more taxing
jurisdictions could seek to impose incremental or new taxes on the company. In addition, any adverse developments in
tax laws, incentives, credits or regulations, including legislative changes, judicial holdings or administrative
interpretations, could have a material and adverse effect on financial condition and results of operations.
If AEP is unable to access capital markets or insurance markets on reasonable terms, it could reduce future net
income and cash flows and negatively impact financial condition. (Applies to all Registrants)
AEP relies on access to capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by
operating cash flows or proceeds from the strategic sale of assets and investments, including subsidiaries such as the
planned sale of KPCo and KTCo and AEP Renewables’ competitive contracted renewable portfolio, and insurance
markets to assist in managing its risk and liability profile. Volatility, increased interest rates and reduced liquidity in the
financial markets could affect AEP’s ability to raise capital on reasonable terms to fund capital needs, including
construction costs and refinancing maturing indebtedness. Certain sources of insurance and debt and equity capital have
expressed increasing unwillingness to procure insurance for or to invest in companies, such as AEP, that rely on fossil
fuels. The public holds diverse and often conflicting views on the use of fossil fuels. AEP has multiple stakeholders,
including our shareholders, customers, associates, federal and state regulatory authorities, and the communities in
which AEP operates, and these stakeholders will often have differing priorities and expectations regarding issues
related to the use of fossil fuels. Any adverse publicity in connection with AEP’s use of fossil fuels could curtail
availability from certain sources of capital. If sources of capital for AEP are reduced and/or expected sale proceeds do
not become available, capital costs could increase materially. Restricted access to capital or insurance markets and/or
increased borrowing costs or insurance premiums could reduce future net income and cash flows and negatively impact
financial condition.
Our financial position may be adversely impacted if announced dispositions do not occur as planned or if assets
under strategic evaluation lose value. (Applies to AEP)
In October 2021, AEP entered into an agreement to sell KPCo and KTCo for approximately a $2.85 billion enterprise
value. In September 2022, the agreement was amended to reduce the purchase price to approximately $2.646 billion,
among other terms. The sale remains subject to regulatory approval and if it is not approved on terms acceptable to
AEP or if the sale does not occur for any reason, it could reduce future net income and cash flow and impact financial
condition. In February 2023, AEP signed an agreement to sell the AEP Renewables’ competitive contracted renewables
portfolio to a nonaffiliated party for $1.5 billion including the assumption of project debt. The sale is subject to
regulatory approval. Any announced sale of assets and investments, including subsidiaries, may not occur for any
number of reasons beyond our control, including regulatory approval on terms that are acceptable.
37
AEP has initiated a strategic evaluation for its ownership in AEP Energy, a wholly-owned retail energy supplier that
supplies electricity and/or natural gas to residential, commercial and industrial customers. AEP has not made a decision
regarding the potential alternatives and expects to complete the evaluation in the first half of 2023. Certain of these
alternatives could result in a loss which could reduce future net income and cash flow and impact financial condition.
Shareholder activism could cause AEP to incur significant expense, hinder execution of AEP’s business strategy
and impact AEP’s stock price. (Applies to all Registrants)
Shareholder activism, which can take many forms and arise in a variety of situations, could result in substantial costs
and divert management’s and AEP’s board’s attention and resources from AEP’s business. Additionally, such
shareholder activism could give rise to perceived uncertainties as to AEP’s future, adversely affect AEP’s relationships
with its employees, customers or service providers and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel.
Also, AEP may be required to incur significant fees and other expenses related to activist shareholder matters, including
for third-party advisors. AEP’s stock price could be subject to significant fluctuation or otherwise be adversely affected
by the events, risks and uncertainties of any shareholder activism.
Downgrades in AEP’s credit ratings could negatively affect its ability to access capital. (Applies to all Registrants)
The credit ratings agencies periodically review AEP’s capital structure and the quality and stability of earnings and cash
flows.  Any negative ratings actions could constrain the capital available to AEP and could limit access to funding for
operations.  AEP’s business is capital intensive, and AEP is dependent upon the ability to access capital at rates and on
terms management determines to be attractive.  If AEP’s ability to access capital becomes significantly constrained,
AEP’s interest costs will likely increase and could reduce future net income and cash flows and negatively impact
financial condition.
AEP and AEPTCo have no income or cash flow apart from dividends paid or other payments due from their
subsidiaries. (Applies to AEP and AEPTCo)
AEP and AEPTCo are holding companies and have no operations of their own.  Their ability to meet their financial
obligations associated with their indebtedness and to pay dividends is primarily dependent on the earnings and cash
flows of their operating subsidiaries, primarily their regulated utilities, and the ability of their subsidiaries to pay
dividends to, or repay loans from them.  Their subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities that have no
obligation (apart from loans from AEP or AEPTCo) to provide them with funds for their payment obligations, whether
by dividends, distributions or other payments.  Payments to AEP or AEPTCo by their subsidiaries are also contingent
upon their earnings and business considerations.  AEP and AEPTCo indebtedness and dividends are structurally
subordinated to all subsidiary indebtedness.
AEP’s operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal or quarterly basis and with general economic and weather
conditions. (Applies to all Registrants)
Electric power consumption is generally seasonal.  In many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the
hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time.  In other areas, power demand peaks during the
winter.  As a result, overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis.  In addition,
AEP has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are
milder.  Unusually mild weather in the future could reduce future net income and cash flows and negatively impact
financial condition.  In addition, unusually extreme weather conditions could impact AEP’s results of operations in a
manner that would not likely be sustainable.
Further, deteriorating economic conditions triggered by any cause, including international tariffs, generally result in
reduced consumption by customers, particularly industrial customers who may curtail operations or cease production
entirely, while an expanding economic environment generally results in increased revenues.  As a result, prevailing
economic conditions may reduce future net income and cash flows and negatively impact financial condition.
38
Volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors could substantially increase defined benefit
pension and other postretirement plan costs and the costs of nuclear decommissioning. (Applies to all Registrants
and to AEP and I&M with respect to the costs of nuclear decommissioning)
The costs of providing pension and other postretirement benefit plans are dependent on a number of factors, such as the
rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding
levels of the plan, changes in actuarial assumptions, future government regulation, changes in life expectancy and the
frequency and amount of AEP’s required or voluntary contributions made to the plans. Changes in actuarial
assumptions and differences between the assumptions and actual values, as well as a significant decline in the value of
investments that fund the pension and other postretirement plans, if not offset or mitigated by a decline in plan
liabilities, could increase pension and other postretirement expense, and AEP could be required from time to time to
fund the pension plan with significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on
liquidity by reducing cash flows and could negatively affect results of operations.
Additionally, I&M holds a significant amount of assets in its nuclear decommissioning trusts to satisfy obligations to
decommission its nuclear plant. The rate of return on assets held in those trusts can significantly impact both the costs
of decommissioning and the funding requirements for the trusts.
Supply chain disruptions and inflation could negatively impact our operations and corporate strategy. (Applies to all
Registrants)
AEP’s operations and business plans depend on the global supply chain to procure the equipment, materials and other
resources necessary to build and provide services in a safe and reliable manner. The delivery of components, materials,
equipment and other resources that are critical to AEP’s business operations and corporate strategy has been restricted
by domestic and global supply chain upheaval. This has resulted in the shortage of critical items. International tensions,
including the ramifications of regional conflict, could further exacerbate the global supply chain upheaval. These
disruptions and shortages could adversely impact business operations and corporate strategy. The constraints in the
supply chain could restrict the availability and delay the construction, maintenance or repair of items that are needed to
support normal operations or are required to execute on AEP’s corporate strategy for continued capital investment in
utility equipment. These disruptions and constraints could reduce future net income and cash flows and possibly harm
AEP’s financial condition.
Supply chain disruptions have contributed to higher prices of components, materials, equipment and other needed
commodities and these inflationary increases may continue in the future. The economy in the United States has
encountered a material level of inflation compared to the recent past and that has contributed to increased uncertainty in
the outlook of near-term economic activity, including the level of future inflation and the possibility of a recession. AEP
typically recovers increases in capital expenses from customers through rates in regulated jurisdictions. Failure to
recover increased capital costs could reduce future net income and cash flows and possibly harm AEP’s financial
condition. Increases in inflation raises our costs for labor, materials and services, and failure to secure these on
reasonable terms may adversely impact our financial condition.
AEP’s results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected by a lack of growth or slower growth in the
number of customers, a decline in customer demand or a recession. (Applies to all Registrants)
Growth in customer accounts and growth of customer usage each directly influence demand for electricity and the need
for additional power generation and delivery facilities.  Customer growth and customer usage are affected by a number
of factors outside the control of AEP, such as mandated energy efficiency measures, demand-side management goals,
distributed generation resources and economic and demographic conditions, such as population changes, job and
income growth, housing starts, new business formation and the overall level of economic activity, including changes
due to public health considerations.
Certain regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced or are considering requirements and/or incentives to further
reduce energy consumption.  Additionally, technological advances or other improvements in or applications of
technology could lead to declines in per capita energy consumption.  Some or all of these factors, could impact the
demand for electricity.
39
Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could harm results of operations. (Applies to all
Registrants)
Certain events, such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, mismatch of skillset or complement to
future needs, or unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges and increased costs. The
challenges include potential higher rates of existing employee departures, lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a
lengthy time period associated with skill development. In this case, costs, including costs for contractors to replace
employees, productivity costs and safety costs, may rise. Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees,
including the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future
availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect the ability to manage and operate the business. If AEP is
unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, future net income and cash flows may be
reduced.
Changes in the price of purchased power and commodities, the cost of procuring fuel, emission allowances for
criteria pollutants and the costs of transport may increase AEP’s cost of purchasing and producing power, impacting
financial performance. (Applies to all Registrants except AEP Texas, AEPTCo and OPCo)
AEP is exposed to changes in the price and availability of purchased power and fuel (including the cost to procure coal
and gas) and the price and availability to transport fuel.  AEP has existing contracts of varying durations for the supply
of fuel, but as these contracts end or if they are not honored, AEP may not be able to purchase fuel on terms as
favorable as the current contracts. AEP typically recovers increases in fuel expenses and purchased power from
customers in regulated jurisdictions. Failure to recover these costs could reduce future net income and cash flows and
possibly harm AEP’s financial condition. The inability to procure fuel at costs that are economical could cause AEP to
retire generating capacity prior to the end of its useful life, and while AEP typically recovers expenditures for
undepreciated plant balances, there can be no assurance in the future that AEP will recover such costs. Similarly, AEP is
exposed to changes in the price and availability of emission allowances.  AEP uses emission allowances based on the
amount of fuel used and reductions achieved through emission controls and other measures.  Based on current
environmental programs remaining in effect, AEP has sufficient emission allowances available through either EPA
original issuance or market purchases to cover projected needs for the next two years and beyond. Additional costs may
be incurred either to acquire additional allowances or to achieve further reductions in emissions.  If AEP needs to obtain
allowances, those purchases may not be on as favorable terms as those under the current environmental
programs.  AEP’s risks relative to the price and availability to transport coal include the volatility of the price of diesel
which is the primary fuel used in transporting coal by barge.
Prices for coal, natural gas and emission allowances have shown material swings in the past.  Changes in the cost of
purchased power, fuel or emission allowances and changes in the relationship between such costs and the market prices
of power could reduce future net income and cash flows and negatively impact financial condition.
In addition, actual power prices and fuel costs will differ from those assumed in financial projections used to value
trading and marketing transactions, and those differences may be material.  As a result, as those transactions are
marked-to-market, they may impact future results of operations and cash flows and impact financial condition.
AEP is subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. (Applies to all Registrants)
Climate change creates physical and financial risk.  Physical risks from climate change may include an increase in sea
level and changes in weather conditions, such as changes in precipitation and extreme weather events, such as
fires.  Customers’ energy needs vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity.  For residential
customers, heating and cooling represent their largest energy use.  To the extent weather conditions are affected by
climate change, customers’ energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of the
changes.
Increased energy use due to weather changes may require AEP to invest in additional generating assets, transmission
and other infrastructure to serve increased load.  Decreased energy use due to weather changes may affect financial
condition through decreased revenues.  Extreme weather conditions in general require more system
40
backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stress, including service interruptions.  Weather
conditions outside of the AEP service territory could also have an impact on revenues.  AEP buys and sells electricity
depending upon system needs and market opportunities.  Extreme weather conditions creating high energy demand on
AEP’s own and/or other systems may raise electricity prices as AEP buys short-term energy to serve AEP’s own
system, which would increase the cost of energy AEP provides to customers.
Severe weather and weather-related events impact AEP’s service territories, primarily when thunderstorms, tornadoes,
hurricanes, fires, floods and snow or ice storms occur.  To the extent the frequency and intensity of extreme weather
events and storms increase, AEP’s cost of providing service will increase, including the costs and the availability of
procuring insurance related to such impacts, and these costs may not be recoverable.  Changes in precipitation resulting
in droughts, water shortages or floods could adversely affect operations, principally the fossil fuel generating units.  A
negative impact to water supplies due to long-term drought conditions or severe flooding could adversely impact AEP’s
ability to provide electricity to customers, as well as increase the price they pay for energy.  AEP may not recover all
costs related to mitigating these physical and financial risks.
To the extent climate change impacts a region’s economic health, it may also impact revenues.  AEP’s financial
performance is tied to the health of the regional economies AEP serves.  The price of energy, as a factor in a region’s
cost of living as well as an important input into the cost of goods and services, has an impact on the economic health of
the communities within the AEP System.
Management cannot predict the outcome of the legal proceedings relating to AEP’s business activities. (Applies to
all Registrants)
AEP is involved in legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising out of its business operations, the most significant of
which are summarized in Note 6 - Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies included in the 2022 Annual
Report.  Adverse outcomes in these proceedings could require significant expenditures that could reduce future net
income and cash flows and negatively impact financial condition.
Disruptions at power generation facilities owned by third-parties could interrupt the sales of transmission and
distribution services. (Applies to AEP and AEP Texas)
AEP Texas transmits and distributes electric power that the REPs obtain from power generation facilities owned by
third-parties. If power generation is disrupted or if power generation capacity is inadequate, sales of transmission and
distribution services may be diminished or interrupted, and results of operations, financial condition and cash flows
could be adversely affected.
41
Management is unable to predict the course, results or impact, if any, of current or future litigation or investigations
relating to the extreme winter weather in Texas in February 2021. (Applies to AEP and AEP Texas)
As a result of the February 2021 severe winter weather in Texas which caused a shortage of electric generation,
ERCOT instructed AEP Texas and other Texas electric utilities to initiate power outages to avoid a sustained large-scale
outage and prevent long-term damage to the electric system. At its peak, approximately 468,000 (44%) AEP Texas
customers were without power.
AEP Texas and other AEP entities are named in approximately 100 lawsuits generally alleging the failure to exercise
reasonable care in maintaining and updating their generation, transmission and distribution facilities in order to prevent
cold weather failures and other related negligence. The complaints seek monetary damages among other forms of relief.
In February 2021, AEP Texas received a Civil Investigative Demand from the Office of the Attorney General of Texas
requesting, among other data, information about its communications to and from ERCOT, PUCT, retail electric
providers, utilities, or power generation companies, concerning power outages related to the February 2021 winter
storm. The company responded to the Civil Investigative Demand in March 2021. Management is unable to predict the
course or outcome of these or any future litigation or investigations or their impact, if any, on future results of
operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Hazards associated with high-voltage electricity transmission may result in suspension of AEP’s operations or the
imposition of civil or criminal penalties. (Applies to all Registrants)
AEP operations are subject to the usual hazards associated with high-voltage electricity transmission, including
explosions, fires, inclement weather, natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, equipment
interruptions, remediation, chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases and other
environmental risks. The hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property
and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or
criminal penalties. AEP maintains property and casualty insurance, but AEP is not fully insured against all potential
hazards incident to AEP’s business, such as damage to poles, towers and lines or losses caused by outages.
AEPTCo depends on its affiliates in the AEP System for a substantial portion of its revenues. (Applies to AEPTCo)
AEPTCo’s principal transmission service customers are its affiliates in the AEP System. Management expects that these
affiliates will continue to be AEPTCo’s principal transmission service customers for the foreseeable future. For the year
ended December 31, 2022, its affiliates were responsible for approximately 79% of the consolidated transmission
revenues of AEPTCo.
Most of the real property rights on which the assets of AEPTCo are situated result from affiliate license agreements
and are dependent on the terms of the underlying easements and other rights of its affiliates. (Applies to AEPTCo)
AEPTCo does not hold title to the majority of real property on which its electric transmission assets are located.
Instead, under the provisions of certain affiliate contracts, it is permitted to occupy and maintain its facilities upon real
property held by the respective AEP System utility affiliate that overlay its operations. The ability of AEPTCo to
continue to occupy such real property is dependent upon the terms of such affiliate contracts and upon the underlying
real property rights of these utility affiliates, which may be encumbered by easements, mineral rights and other similar
encumbrances that may affect the use of such real property. AEP can give no assurance that (a) the relevant AEP
System utility affiliates will continue to be affiliates of AEPTCo, (b) suitable replacement arrangements can be obtained
in the event that the relevant AEP System utility affiliates are not its affiliates and (c) the underlying easements and
other rights are sufficient to permit AEPTCo to operate its assets in a manner free from interruption.
42
Compliance with legislative and regulatory requirements may lead to increased costs and result in penalties.
(Applies to all Registrants)
Business activities of electric utilities and related companies are heavily regulated, primarily through national and state
laws and regulations of general applicability, including laws and regulations related to working conditions, health and
safety, equal employment opportunity, employee benefit and other labor and employment matters, laws and regulations
related to competition and antitrust matters. Many agencies employ mandatory civil penalty structures for regulatory
violations. Registrants are subject to the jurisdiction of many federal and state agencies, including the FERC, NERC,
Commodities Futures Trading Commission, Federal EPA, NRC, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the
SEC and the United States Department of Justice which may impose significant civil and criminal penalties to enforce
compliance requirements relative to AEP’s business, which could have a material adverse effect on financial operating
results including earnings, cash flow and liquidity.
The impact of new laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations, as well as changes in enforcement
practices or regulatory scrutiny generally cannot be predicted, and changes in applicable laws, regulations and policies
and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may require extensive system and operational changes, be
difficult to implement, increase AEP’s operating costs, require significant capital expenditures, or adversely impact the
cost or attractiveness of the products or services AEP offers, or result in adverse publicity and harm AEP’s reputation.
RISKS RELATED TO OWNING AND OPERATING GENERATION ASSETS AND SELLING POWER
Costs of compliance with existing and evolving environmental laws are significant. (Applies to all Registrants except
AEPTCo)
Operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air
quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources and health and safety.  A majority of the electricity
generated by the AEP System is produced by the combustion of fossil fuels.  Emissions of nitrogen and sulfur oxides,
mercury and particulates and the discharge and disposal of solid waste (including coal-combustion residuals or CCR)
resulting from fossil fueled generation plants are subject to increased regulations, controls and mitigation expenses. 
Compliance with these legal requirements (including any new and more stringent application of existing CCR
regulations) requires AEP to commit significant capital toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution
control equipment, emission fees, disposal, remediation and permits at AEP facilities and could cause AEP to retire
generating capacity prior to the end of its estimated useful life.  Costs of compliance with environmental statutes and
regulations could reduce future net income and negatively impact financial condition, especially if emission limits,
CCR waste discharge and/or discharge disposal obligations are tightened, more extensive operating and/or permitting
requirements are imposed or additional substances or facilities become regulated.  Although AEP typically recovers
expenditures for pollution control technologies, replacement generation, undepreciated plant balances and associated
operating costs from customers, there can be no assurance in the future that AEP will recover the remaining costs
associated with such plants.  Failure to recover these costs could reduce future net income and cash flows and possibly
harm financial condition. 
Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could materially increase costs to AEP and its customers or cause some
electric generating units to be uneconomical to operate or maintain. (Applies to all Registrants except AEP Texas,
AEPTCo and OPCo)
Federal or state laws or regulations may be adopted that would impose new or additional limits on the emissions of
greenhouse gases, including, but not limited to, carbon dioxide and methane, from electric generation units using fossil
fuels like coal. The potential effects of greenhouse gas emission limits on AEP's electric generation units are subject to
significant uncertainties based on, among other things, the timing of the implementation of any new requirements, the
required levels of emission reductions, the nature of any market-based or tax-based mechanisms adopted to facilitate
reductions, the relative availability of greenhouse gas emission reduction offsets, the development of cost-effective,
commercial-scale carbon capture and storage technology and supporting regulations and liability mitigation measures,
and the range of available compliance alternatives.
43
AEP’s results of operations could be materially adversely affected to the extent that new federal or state laws or
regulations impose any new greenhouse gas emission limits. Any future limits on greenhouse gas emissions could
create substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emissions allowances, require significant capital investment in
carbon capture and storage technology, fuel switching, or the replacement of high-emitting generation facilities with
lower-emitting generation facilities and/or could cause AEP to retire generating capacity prior to the end of its
estimated useful life. Although AEP typically recovers environmental expenditures, there can be no assurance in the
future that AEP can recover such costs which could reduce future net income and cash flows and possibly harm
financial condition.
Courts adjudicating nuisance and other similar claims in the future may order AEP to pay damages or to limit or
reduce emissions. (Applies to all Registrants except AEP Texas and AEPTCo)
In the past, there have been several cases seeking damages based on allegations of federal and state common law
nuisance in which AEP, among others, were defendants.  In general, the actions allege that emissions from the
defendants’ power plants constitute a public nuisance.  The plaintiffs in these actions generally seek recovery of
damages and other relief.  If future actions are resolved against AEP, substantial modifications or retirement of AEP’s
existing coal-fired power plants could be required, and AEP might be required to purchase power from third-parties to
fulfill AEP’s commitments to supply power to AEP customers.  This could have a material impact on revenues.  In
addition, AEP could be required to invest significantly in additional emission control equipment, accelerate the timing
of capital expenditures, pay damages or penalties and/or halt operations.  Unless recovered, those costs could reduce
future net income and cash flows and harm financial condition.  Moreover, results of operations and financial position
could be reduced due to the timing of recovery of these investments and the expense of ongoing litigation.
Commodity trading and marketing activities are subject to inherent risks which can be reduced and controlled but
not eliminated. (Applies to all Registrants except AEP Texas, AEPTCo and OPCo)
AEP routinely has open trading positions in the market, within guidelines set by AEP, resulting from the management
of AEP’s trading portfolio.  To the extent open trading positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can improve or
diminish financial results and financial position.
AEP’s power trading activities also expose AEP to risks of commodity price movements.  To the extent that AEP’s
power trading does not hedge the price risk associated with the generation it owns, or controls, AEP would be exposed
to the risk of rising and falling spot market prices.
In connection with these trading activities, AEP routinely enters into financial contracts, including futures and options,
OTC options, financially-settled swaps and other derivative contracts.  These activities expose AEP to risks from price
movements.  If the values of the financial contracts change in a manner AEP does not anticipate, it could harm financial
position or reduce the financial contribution of trading operations.
Parties with whom AEP has contracts may fail to perform their obligations, which could harm AEP’s results of
operations. (Applies to all Registrants)
AEP sells power from its generation facilities into the spot market and other competitive power markets on a
contractual basis. AEP also enters into contracts to purchase and sell electricity, natural gas, emission allowances,
renewable energy credits and coal as part of its power marketing and energy trading operations. AEP is exposed to the
risk that counterparties that owe AEP money or the delivery of a commodity, including power, could breach their
obligations.  Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, AEP may be forced to enter into
alternative hedging arrangements or honor underlying commitments at then-current market prices that may exceed
AEP’s contractual prices, which would cause financial results to be diminished and AEP might incur losses.  Although
estimates take into account the expected probability of default by a counterparty, actual exposure to a default by a
counterparty may be greater than the estimates predict.
44
AEP relies on electric transmission facilities that AEP does not own or control.  If these facilities do not provide
AEP with adequate transmission capacity, AEP may not be able to deliver wholesale electric power to the purchasers
of AEP’s power. (Applies to all Registrants)
AEP depends on transmission facilities owned and operated by other nonaffiliated power companies to deliver the
power AEP sells at wholesale.  This dependence exposes AEP to a variety of risks.  If transmission is disrupted, or
transmission capacity is inadequate, AEP may not be able to sell and deliver AEP wholesale power.  If a region’s power
transmission infrastructure is inadequate, AEP’s recovery of wholesale costs and profits may be limited.  If restrictive
transmission price regulation is imposed, the transmission companies may not have sufficient incentive to invest in
expansion of transmission infrastructure.
The FERC has issued electric transmission initiatives that require electric transmission services to be offered unbundled
from commodity sales.  Although these initiatives are designed to encourage wholesale market transactions, access to
transmission systems may not be available if transmission capacity is insufficient because of physical constraints or
because it is contractually unavailable.  Management also cannot predict whether transmission facilities will be
expanded in specific markets to accommodate competitive access to those markets.
OVEC may require additional liquidity and other capital support.  (Applies to AEP, APCo, I&M and OPCo)
AEP and several nonaffiliated utility companies own OVEC. The Inter-Company Power Agreement (ICPA) defines the
rights and obligations and sets the power participation ratio of the parties to it. Under the ICPA, parties are entitled to
receive and are obligated to pay for all OVEC capacity (approximately 2,400 MWs) in proportion to their respective
power participation ratios. The aggregate power participation ratio of APCo, I&M and OPCo is 43.47%. If a party fails
to make payments owed by it under the ICPA, OVEC may not have sufficient funds to honor its payment obligations,
including its ongoing operating expenses as well as its indebtedness. As of December 31, 2022, OVEC has outstanding
indebtedness of approximately $1.1 billion, of which APCo, I&M, and OPCo are collectively responsible for $478
million through the ICPA. Although they are not an obligor or guarantor, APCo, I&M, and OPCo are responsible for
their respective ratio of OVEC’s outstanding debt through the ICPA and if OVEC’s indebtedness is accelerated for any
reason, there is risk that APCo, I&M and/or OPCo may be required to pay some or all of such accelerated indebtedness
in amounts equal to their aggregate power participation ratio of 43.47%.
New climate disclosure rules proposed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission may increase our costs of
compliance and adversely impact our business. (Applies to all Registrants)
On March 21, 2022, the SEC proposed new rules relating to the disclosure of a range of climate-related risks. AEP is
currently assessing the proposed rule, but at this time AEP cannot predict the costs of implementation or any potential
adverse impacts resulting from the rule. To the extent this rule is finalized as proposed, AEP could incur increased costs
relating to the assessment and disclosure of climate-related risks. AEP may also face increased litigation risks related to
disclosures made pursuant to the rule if finalized as proposed. In addition, enhanced climate disclosure requirements
could accelerate the trend of certain stakeholders and lenders restricting or seeking more stringent conditions with
respect to their investments in certain carbon-intensive sectors.
ITEM 1B.   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.
ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES
GENERATION FACILITIES
As of December 31, 2022, the AEP System owned (or leased where indicated) generation plants, with locations and net
maximum power capabilities (winter rating), are shown in the following tables:
45
Vertically Integrated Utilities Segment
AEGCo      
Plant Name Units State Fuel TypeNet
Maximum
 Capacity
(MWs)Year Plant
 or First Unit
Commissioned
Rockport, Units 1 and 2 – 50% of each (a) 2 IN Steam - Coal 1,310 1984
(a) Rockport Plant, Unit 2 was subject to a finance lease with a nonaffiliated company. In December 2022, the
lease expired at which point I&M and AEGCo acquired 100% of the interests in Unit 2. See the “Rockport
Plant Litigation” section of Note 6 included in the 2022 Annual Report for additional information.
APCo      
Plant Name Units State Fuel TypeNet
Maximum
 Capacity
(MWs)Year Plant
 or First Unit
Commissioned
Buck 3 VA Hydro 11 1912
Byllesby 4 VA Hydro 19 1912
Claytor 4 VA Hydro 76 1939
Leesville 2 VA Hydro 50 1964
London 3 WV Hydro 14 1935
Marmet 3 WV Hydro 14 1935
Niagara 2 VA Hydro 1 1906
Winfield 3 WV Hydro 15 1938
Ceredo 6 WV Natural Gas 516 2001
Dresden 3 OH Natural Gas 665 2012
Smith Mountain 5 VA Pumped Storage 585 1965
Amos 3 WV Steam - Coal 2,930 1971
Mountaineer 1 WV Steam - Coal 1,320 1980
Clinch River 2 VA Steam - Natural Gas 465 1958
Total MWs    6,681  
46
I&M      
Plant Name Units State Fuel TypeNet
Maximum
Capacity
(MWs)Year Plant
 or First Unit
Commissioned
Berrien Springs 12 MI Hydro 7 1908
Buchanan 10 MI Hydro 3 1919
Constantine 4 MI Hydro 1 1921
Elkhart 3 IN Hydro 3 1913
Mottville 4 MI Hydro 2 1923
Twin Branch Hydro 8 IN Hydro 4 1904
Deer Creek Solar Farm NA IN Solar 3 2016
Olive Solar Farm NA IN Solar 5 2016
St. Joseph NA IN Solar 20 2021
Twin Branch Solar Farm NA IN Solar 3 2016
Watervliet NA MI Solar 5 2016
Rockport (Units 1 and 2, 50% of
each) (a) 2 IN Steam - Coal 1,310 1984
Cook 2 MI Steam - Nuclear 2,296 1975
Total MWs    3,662  
(a) Rockport Plant, Unit 2 was subject to a finance lease with a nonaffiliated company. In December 2022, the
lease expired at which point I&M and AEGCo acquired 100% of the interests in Unit 2. See the “Rockport
Plant Litigation” section of Note 6 included in the 2022 Annual Report for additional information.
NA    Not applicable.
The following table provides operating information related to the Cook Plant:
 Cook Plant
 Unit 1 Unit 2
Year Placed in Operation 1975 1978
Year of Expiration of NRC License 2034 2037
Nominal Net Electrical Rating in MWs 1,084 1,212
Annual Capacity Utilization   
2022 79.4 % 86.6 %
2021 96.0 % 84.2 %
2020 87.2 % 94.2 %
KPCo      
Plant Name Units State Fuel TypeNet
Maximum
Capacity
(MWs)Year Plant
 or First Unit
Commissioned
Mitchell (a)(b) 2 WV Steam - Coal 780 1971
Big Sandy 1 KY Steam - Natural Gas 295 1963
Total MWs    1,075  
(a) KPCo owns a 50% interest in the Mitchell Plant units.  WPCo owns the remaining 50%. Figures presented
reflect only the portion owned by KPCo.
(b) In September 2022, pursuant to resolutions under the existing Mitchell Plant agreement, WPCo replaced KPCo
as the operator of Mitchell Plant. See the “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 included in the
2022 Annual Report for additional information.
47
PSO      
Plant Name Units State Fuel TypeNet
Maximum
Capacity
(MWs)Year Plant
 or First Unit
Commissioned
Comanche 3 OK Natural Gas 248 1973
Northeastern, Unit 1 1 OK Natural Gas 470 1961
Riverside, Units 3 and 4 2 OK Natural Gas 160 2008
Southwestern, Units 4 and 5 2 OK Natural Gas 168 2008
Weleetka 2 OK Natural Gas 100 1975
Northeastern, Unit 3 1 OK Steam - Coal 465 1979
Northeastern, Unit 2 1 OK Steam - Natural Gas 434 1961
Riverside, Units 1 and 2 2 OK Steam - Natural Gas 896 1974
Southwestern, Units 1, 2 and 3 3 OK Steam - Natural Gas 446 1952
Tulsa 2 OK Steam - Natural Gas 318 1956
Maverick (a) NA OK Wind 131 2021
Sundance (a) NA OK Wind 90 2021
Traverse (a) NA OK Wind 454 2022
Total MWs    4,380  
(a) SWEPCo owns a 54.5% interest and PSO owns the remaining 45.5% interest in Sundance, Maverick and
Traverse.  
NA Not applicable.
48
SWEPCo      
Plant Name Units State Fuel TypeNet
Maximum
Capacity
(MWs)Year Plant
 or First Unit
Commissioned
Mattison 4 AR Natural Gas 314 2007
Stall 3 LA Natural Gas 534 2010
Flint Creek (a) 1 AR Steam - Coal 258 1978
Turk (a) 1 AR Steam - Coal 477 2012
Welsh (b) 2 TX Steam - Coal 1,053 1977
Pirkey (a)(c) 1 TX Steam - Lignite 580 1985
Arsenal Hill 1 LA Steam - Natural Gas 110 1960
Knox Lee 1 TX Steam - Natural Gas 344 1950
Lieberman 3 LA Steam - Natural Gas 217 1947
Wilkes 3 TX Steam - Natural Gas 889 1964
Maverick (d) NA OK Wind 156 2021
Sundance (d) NA OK Wind 109 2021
Traverse (d) NA OK Wind 544 2022
Total MWs    5,585  
(a) Jointly-owned with nonaffiliated entities.  Figures presented reflect only the portion owned by SWEPCo. The
Arkansas jurisdictional portion of SWEPCo’s interest in Turk Plant is not in rate base.
(b) In November 2020, management announced it will cease using coal at the Welsh Plant in 2028.
(c) In November 2020, management announced plans to retire the plant in 2023.
(d) SWEPCo owns a 54.5% interest and PSO owns the remaining 45.5% interest in Sundance, Maverick and
Traverse.
NA Not applicable.
WPCo      
Plant Name Units State Fuel TypeNet
Maximum
Capacity
(MWs)Year Plant
 or First Unit
Commissioned
Mitchell (a)(b) 2 WV Steam - Coal 780 1971
(a) WPCo owns 50% in the Mitchell Plant units. KPCo owns the remaining 50%. Figures presented reflect only
the portion owned by WPCo.
(b) In September 2022, pursuant to resolutions under the existing Mitchell Plant agreement, WPCo replaced KPCo
as the operator of Mitchell Plant. See the “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 included in the
2022 Annual Report for additional information.
49
Generation & Marketing Segment
Renewable Power
Size of Energy ResourceAEP Energy Supply, LLC
DivisionRenewable
Energy Resource LocationIn-Service or
Under Construction
1,200 MW AEP Renewables Wind Eight states (a) In-service
20 MW AEP Renewables Solar California In-service
20 MW AEP Renewables Solar Utah In-service
125 MW AEP Renewables Solar Nevada In-service
168 MW AEP OnSite Partners Solar Seventeen states (b)In-service
26 MW AEP OnSite Partners Solar Two states (c) Under Construction
(a)    Colorado, Hawaii, Indiana, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Pennsylvania and Texas.
(b)    California, Colorado, Florida, Hawaii, Illinois, Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Jersey,
New Mexico, New York, Ohio, Rhode Island, Texas, Vermont and Wisconsin.
(c)    Ohio and New Mexico.
50
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES
The following tables set forth the total overhead circuit miles of transmission and distribution lines of the AEP System
and its operating companies.
Vertically Integrated Utilities Segment
Total Overhead Circuit Miles
of Transmission and
Distribution Lines
APCo 51,620 
I&M 20,852 
KGPCo 1,406 
KPCo 11,182 
PSO 18,177 
SWEPCo 26,174 
WPCo 1,736 
Total Circuit Miles 131,147 
Transmission and Distribution Utilities Segment
Total Overhead Circuit Miles
of Transmission and
Distribution Lines
OPCo 44,576 
AEP Texas 46,492 
Total Circuit Miles 91,068 
AEP Transmission Holdco Segment
The following table sets forth the total overhead circuit miles of transmission lines of certain wholly-owned and joint
venture-owned entities:
Total Overhead Circuit
Miles of Transmission
Lines
ETT 1,884 
IMTCo 1,115 
OHTCo 1,215 
OKTCo 1,061 
WVTCo 344 
Pioneer 43 
Prairie Wind Transmission 216 
Transource Missouri 167 
Transource West Virginia 27 
Total Circuit Miles 6,072 
51
TITLE TO PROPERTY
The AEP System’s generating facilities are generally located on lands owned in fee simple.  The greater portion of the
transmission and distribution lines of the AEP System has been constructed over lands of private owners pursuant to
easements or along public highways and streets pursuant to appropriate statutory authority.  The rights of AEP’s public
utility subsidiaries in the realty on which their facilities are located are considered adequate for use in the conduct of
their business.  Minor defects and irregularities customarily found in title to properties of like size and character may
exist, but such defects and irregularities do not materially impair the use of the properties.  AEP’s public utility
subsidiaries generally have the right of eminent domain which permits them, if necessary, to acquire, perfect or secure
titles to or easements on privately held lands used or to be used in their utility operations.  
SYSTEM TRANSMISSION LINES AND FACILITY SITING
Laws in the states of Arkansas, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Ohio, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and West
Virginia require prior approval of sites of generating facilities and/or routes of high-voltage transmission lines.  AEP
has experienced delays and additional costs in constructing facilities as a result of proceedings conducted pursuant to
such statutes and in proceedings in which AEP’s operating companies have sought to acquire rights-of-way through
condemnation.  These proceedings may result in additional delays and costs in future years.
CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
With input from its state utility commissions, the AEP System continuously assesses the adequacy of its transmission,
distribution, generation and other facilities to plan and provide for the reliable supply of electric power and energy to its
customers.  In this assessment process, assumptions are continually being reviewed as new information becomes
available and assessments and plans are modified, as appropriate.  AEP forecasts approximately $6.8 billion of
construction expenditures for 2023. Estimated construction expenditures are subject to periodic review and
modification and may vary based on the ongoing effects of regulatory constraints, environmental regulations, business
opportunities, market volatility, economic trends, supply chain issues, weather, legal reviews and the ability to access
capital.  See the “Budgeted Capital Expenditures” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations included in the 2022 Annual Report for additional information.
POTENTIAL UNINSURED LOSSES
Some potential losses or liabilities may not be insurable or the amount of insurance carried may not be sufficient to
meet potential losses and liabilities, including liabilities relating to damage to AEP’s generation plants and costs of
replacement power.  Unless allowed to be recovered through rates, future losses or liabilities which are not completely
insured could reduce net income and impact the financial conditions of AEP and other AEP System companies.  For
risks related to owning a nuclear generating unit, see the “Nuclear Contingencies” section of Note 6 - Commitments,
Guarantees and Contingencies included in the 2022 Annual Report for additional information.
ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
For a discussion of material legal proceedings, see Note 6 - Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies included in
the 2022 Annual Report for additional information.
52
ITEM 4.   MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURE
The Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 (Mine Act) imposes stringent health and safety standards on various
mining operations. The Mine Act and its related regulations affect numerous aspects of mining operations, including
training of mine personnel, mining procedures, equipment used in mine emergency procedures, mine plans and other
matters. SWEPCo, through its ownership of DHLC, a wholly-owned lignite mining subsidiary of SWEPCo, is subject
to the provisions of the Mine Act.
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) requires companies that operate
mines to include in their periodic reports filed with the SEC, certain mine safety information covered by the Mine
Act.  Exhibit 95 “Mine Safety Disclosure Exhibit” contains the notices of violation and proposed assessments received
by DHLC under the Mine Act for the quarter ended December 31, 2022.
53
PART II
ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS’ COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
AEP
In addition to the AEP Common Stock Information section below, the remaining information required by this item is
incorporated herein by reference to the material under the “Dividend Policy and Restrictions” section of Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in the 2022 Annual Report.
During the quarter ended December 31, 2022, neither AEP nor its publicly-traded subsidiaries purchased equity
securities that are registered by AEP or its publicly-traded subsidiaries pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act.
AEP Texas, APCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo
The common stock of these companies is held solely by AEP.  For more information see the “Dividend Restrictions”
section of Note 14 - Financing Activities included in the 2022 Annual Report.
AEPTCo
AEP owns the entire interest in AEPTCo through its wholly-owned subsidiary AEP Transmission Holdco.
AEP COMMON STOCK INFORMATION
AEP common stock is principally traded using the trading symbol “AEP” on the NASDAQ Stock Market.  As of
December 31, 2022, AEP had 51,279 registered shareholders. The performance graph below compares the cumulative
total return among AEP, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Electric Utilities (SP833) Index over a five year period. The
performance graph assumes an initial investment of $100 on December 31, 2017 and that all dividends were reinvested.
Source: S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC. Data as of December 31, 2022. Past performance is no guarantee of future
results. Chart provided for illustrative purposes.
54
ITEM 6.         RESERVED
ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS
AEP
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the material under Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the 2022 Annual Report. Year-to-year
comparisons between 2021 and 2020 have been omitted from this Form 10-K but may be found in "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition" in Part II, Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2021, which specific discussion is incorporated herein by reference.
AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo
Omitted pursuant to Instruction I(2)(a).  Management’s narrative analysis of the results of operations and other
information required by Instruction I(2)(a) is incorporated herein by reference to the material under Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the 2022 Annual Report.
ITEM 7A.   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
AEP, AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the material under the “Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations in the 2022 Annual Report.
ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
55
2022 Annual Reports
American Electric Power Company, Inc. and Subsidiary Companies
AEP Texas Inc. and Subsidiaries
AEP Transmission Company, LLC and Subsidiaries
Appalachian Power Company and Subsidiaries
Indiana Michigan Power Company and Subsidiaries
Ohio Power Company and Subsidiaries
Public Service Company of Oklahoma
Southwestern Electric Power Company Consolidated
Audited Financial Statements and
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
56
AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
INDEX OF ANNUAL REPORTS
Page
Number
American Electric Power Company, Inc. and Subsidiary Companies:
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 58
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID 238) 127
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 131
Consolidated Financial Statements 132
AEP Texas Inc. and Subsidiaries:
Management’s Narrative Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations 139
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID 238) 142
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 144
Consolidated Financial Statements 145
AEP Transmission Company, LLC and Subsidiaries:
Management’s Narrative Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations 152
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID 238) 154
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 157
Consolidated Financial Statements 158
Appalachian Power Company and Subsidiaries:
Management’s Narrative Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations 164
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID 238) 167
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 169
Consolidated Financial Statements 170
Indiana Michigan Power Company and Subsidiaries:
Management’s Narrative Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations 177
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID 238) 180
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 182
Consolidated Financial Statements 183
Ohio Power Company and Subsidiaries:
Management’s Narrative Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations 190
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID 238) 193
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 196
Consolidated Financial Statements 197
Public Service Company of Oklahoma:
Management’s Narrative Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations 203
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID 238) 206
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 208
Financial Statements 209
Southwestern Electric Power Company Consolidated:
Management’s Narrative Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations 216
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID 238) 219
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 221
Consolidated Financial Statements 222
Index of Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants 228
57
AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES MANAGEMENT’S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW
Company Overview
AEP is one of the largest investor-owned electric public utility holding companies in the United States.  AEP’s electric
utility operating companies provide generation, transmission and distribution services to more than five million retail
customers in Arkansas, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Ohio, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and West
Virginia.
AEP’s subsidiaries operate an extensive portfolio of assets including:
•Approximately 225,000 circuit miles of distribution lines that deliver electricity to 5.6 million customers.
•Approximately 40,000 circuit miles of transmission lines, including approximately 2,200 circuit miles of 765
kV lines, the backbone of the electric interconnection grid in the eastern United States.
•Approximately 23,500 MWs of regulated owned generating capacity as of December 31, 2022, one of the
largest complements of generation in the United States.
Customer Demand
AEP’s weather-normalized retail sales volumes for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased by 2.8% from the year
ended December 31, 2021. Weather-normalized residential sales increased 0.1% for the year ended December 31, 2022
compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. Weather-normalized commercial sales increased by 4.2% in 2022
compared to 2021. The increase in commercial sales was spread across many sectors. AEP’s 2022 industrial sales
volumes increased 4.5% compared to 2021. The growth in industrial sales was spread across many industries.
In 2023, AEP anticipates weather-normalized retail sales volumes will increase by 0.7%. Weather-normalized
residential sales volumes are projected to decrease by 0.5% in 2023, while weather-normalized commercial sales
volumes are projected to increase by 0.6%. Finally, AEP projects the industrial class to increase by 2.1% in 2023.
(a) Percentage change for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021.
(b) Forecasted percentage change for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022.
58
Supply Chain Disruption and Inflation
The Registrants have experienced certain supply chain disruptions driven by several factors including staffing and
travel issues caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, international tensions including the ramifications of regional conflict,
increased demand due to the economic recovery from the pandemic, inflation, labor shortages in certain trades and
shortages in the availability of certain raw materials. These supply chain disruptions have not had a material impact on
the Registrants net income, cash flows and financial condition, but have extended lead times for certain goods and
services and have contributed to higher prices for fuel, materials, labor, equipment and other needed commodities.
Management has implemented risk mitigation strategies in an attempt to mitigate the impacts of these supply chain
disruptions.
The United States economy has experienced a significant level of inflation that has contributed to increased uncertainty
in the outlook of near-term economic activity, including whether inflation will continue and at what rate. A prolonged
continuation or a further increase in the severity of supply chain and inflationary disruptions could result in additional
increases in the cost of certain goods, services and cost of capital and further extend lead times which could reduce
future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.
Strategic Evaluation of AEP Energy
AEP has initiated a strategic evaluation for its ownership in AEP Energy, a wholly-owned retail energy supplier that
supplies electricity and/or natural gas to residential, commercial and industrial customers. AEP Energy provides various
energy solutions in Illinois, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, Ohio and Washington, D.C. AEP Energy
had approximately 736,000 customer accounts as of December 31, 2022. Potential alternatives may include, but are not
limited to, continued ownership or a sale of all or a part of AEP Energy. Management has not made a decision regarding
the potential alternatives, but expects to complete the strategic evaluation in the first half of 2023.
Regulatory Matters
AEP’s public utility subsidiaries are involved in rate and regulatory proceedings at the FERC and their state
commissions.  Depending on the outcomes, these rate and regulatory proceedings can have a material impact on results
of operations, cash flows and possibly financial condition. AEP is currently involved in the following key proceedings.
See Note 4 - Rate Matters for additional information.
•2017-2019 Virginia Triennial Review - In November 2020, the Virginia SCC issued an order on APCo’s 2017-
2019 Triennial Review filing concluding that APCo earned above its authorized ROE but within its ROE band
for the 2017-2019 period, resulting in no refund to customers and no change to APCo base rates on a
prospective basis. The Virginia SCC approved a prospective 9.2% ROE for APCo's 2020-2022 triennial review
period with the continuation of a statutory 140 basis point band (8.5% bottom, 9.2% midpoint, 9.9% top).
APCo appealed this order and a similar order on reconsideration to the Virginia Supreme Court in March 2021,
alleging the Virginia SCC erred in finding that costs associated with asset impairments related to APCo early
retirement determinations for certain generation facilities should not be attributed to the 2017-2019 test periods
under review and deemed fully recovered in the period recorded. In August 2022, the Virginia Supreme Court
agreed with this portion of APCo’s appeal and remanded this issue regarding the retired coal-fired plants back
to the Virginia SCC for further proceedings. In September 2022, as a result of the Virginia Supreme Court
ruling, APCo expensed the remaining $25 million closed coal plant regulatory asset that was previously
ordered by the Virginia SCC and recorded a $37 million regulatory asset for previously incurred costs that
APCo is expecting to recover as a result of earning below its 2017-2019 authorized ROE band.
In response to the Virginia Supreme Court’s August 2022 opinion, the Virginia SCC initiated remand
proceedings and, in December 2022, issued an order that: (a) approved APCo’s requested $37 million
regulatory asset related to previously incurred costs as a result of APCo earning below its 2017-2019
authorized ROE band, (b) authorized a $28 million annual increase in APCo Virginia base rates effective
59
October 2022 and (c) approved a rider to recover approximately $48 million related to this APCo Virginia base
rate increase for the period January 2021 through September 2022. APCo’s 2022 financial statements reflect
the impact of the Virginia SCC’s December 2022 order.
•2020-2022 Virginia Triennial Review - In March 2023, APCo will submit its required Virginia earnings test
calculation to the Virginia SCC for the 2020-2022 Triennial Review period. For Triennial Review periods in
which a Virginia utility earns below its authorized ROE band, the utility may file to recover expenses incurred,
up to the bottom of the authorized ROE band, related to major storms, the early retirement of fossil fuel
generating assets and certain projects necessary to comply with state and federal environmental legislation. As
of December 2022, APCo has deferred approximately $38 million related to previously incurred costs as a
result of the current estimate that APCo will earn below the bottom of its authorized ROE band during the
2020-2022 Triennial Review period.
APCo is also required to submit a depreciation study as part of its 2020-2022 Triennial Review filing based on
plant in service balances as of December 31, 2022. APCo is required to implement the impacts of this
depreciation study effective January 1, 2023 without a corresponding adjustment in customer rates until the
first quarter of 2024. While subject to review as part of APCo’s 2020-2022 Virginia Triennial Review, a
significant change in depreciation rates (either an increase or a decrease) without a corresponding adjustment in
Virginia retail rates would impact future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.
•2012 Texas Base Rate Case - In 2012, SWEPCo filed a request with the PUCT to increase annual base rates
primarily due to the completion of the Turk Plant. In 2013, the PUCT issued an order affirming the prudence of
the Turk Plant but determined that the Turk Plant’s Texas jurisdictional capital cost cap established in a
previous Certificate of Convenience and Necessity case also limited SWEPCo’s recovery of AFUDC in
addition to limits on its recovery of cash construction costs. Upon rehearing in 2014, the PUCT reversed its
initial ruling and determined that AFUDC was excluded from the Turk Plant’s Texas jurisdictional capital cost
cap. In 2017, the Texas District Court upheld the PUCT’s 2014 order and intervenors filed appeals with the
Texas Third Court of Appeals. In July 2018, the Texas Third Court of Appeals reversed the PUCT’s judgment
affirming the prudence of the Turk Plant and remanded the issue back to the PUCT. In January 2019, SWEPCo
and the PUCT filed petitions for review with the Texas Supreme Court.
In March 2021, the Texas Supreme Court issued an opinion reversing the July 2018 judgment of the Texas
Third Court of Appeals and agreeing with the PUCT’s judgment affirming the prudence of the Turk Plant. In
addition, the Texas Supreme Court remanded the AFUDC dispute back to the Texas Third Court of Appeals. No
parties filed a motion for rehearing with the Texas Supreme Court. In August 2021, the Texas Third Court of
Appeals reversed the Texas District Court judgment affirming the PUCT’s order on AFUDC, concluding that
the language of the PUCT’s original 2008 order intended to include AFUDC in the Texas jurisdictional capital
cost cap, and remanded the case to the PUCT for future proceedings. SWEPCo disagrees with the Court of
Appeals decision. SWEPCo and the PUCT submitted Petitions for Review with the Texas Supreme Court in
November 2021. In October 2022, the Texas Supreme Court denied the Petitions for Review submitted by
SWEPCo and the PUCT. In December 2022, SWEPCo and the PUCT filed requests for rehearing with the
Texas Supreme Court. The Texas Supreme Court requested comments on rehearing by March 1, 2023. If
SWEPCo’s request for rehearing is denied, the case will be remanded to the PUCT for future proceedings.
Management does not believe a disallowance of capitalized Turk Plant costs or a revenue refund is probable as
of December 31, 2022. However, if SWEPCo is ultimately unable to recover AFUDC in excess of the Texas
jurisdictional capital cost cap, it would be expected to result in a pretax net disallowance ranging from
$80 million to $90 million. In addition, if AFUDC is ultimately determined to be included in the Texas
jurisdictional capital cost cap, SWEPCo estimates it may be required to make customer refunds ranging from
$0 to $185 million related to revenues collected from February 2013 through December 2022 and such
determination may reduce SWEPCo’s future revenues by approximately $15 million on an annual basis.
60
•In July 2019, Ohio House Bill 6 (HB 6), which offered incentives for power-generating facilities with zero or
reduced carbon emissions, was signed into law by the Ohio Governor. HB 6 terminated energy efficiency
programs as of December 31, 2020, including OPCo’s shared savings revenues of $26 million annually and
phased out renewable mandates after 2026. HB 6 also provided for continued recovery of existing renewable
energy contracts on a bypassable basis through 2032 and included a provision for continued recovery of OVEC
costs through 2030 which is allocated to all electric distribution utility customers in Ohio on a non-bypassable
basis. OPCo’s Inter-Company Power Agreement for OVEC terminates in June 2040. In July 2020, an
investigation led by the U.S. Attorney’s Office resulted in a federal grand jury indictment of the Speaker of the
Ohio House of Representatives, Larry Householder, four other individuals, and Generation Now, an entity
registered as a 501(c)(4) social welfare organization, in connection with an alleged racketeering conspiracy
involving the adoption of HB 6. Certain defendants in that case have since pleaded guilty and a criminal trial is
proceeding against the other. In 2021, four AEP shareholders filed derivative actions purporting to assert claims
on behalf of AEP against certain AEP officers and directors. See “Litigation Related to Ohio House Bill 6”
section of Litigation below for additional information.
In March 2021, the Governor of Ohio signed legislation that, among other things, repealed the payments to the
nonaffiliated owner of Ohio’s nuclear power plants that were previously authorized under HB 6. The new
legislation, House Bill 128, went into effect in May 2021 and leaves unchanged other provisions of HB 6
regarding energy efficiency programs, recovery of renewable energy costs and recovery of OVEC costs. To the
extent that the law changes or OPCo is unable to recover the costs of renewable energy contracts on a
bypassable basis by the end of 2032, recover costs of OVEC after 2030 or incurs significant costs associated
with the derivative actions, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.
•In April 2021, the FERC issued a supplemental Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NOPR) proposing to modify
its incentive for transmission owners that join RTOs (RTO Incentive). Under the supplemental NOPR, the RTO
Incentive would be modified such that a utility would only be eligible for the RTO Incentive for the first three
years after the utility joins a FERC-approved Transmission Organization. This is a significant departure from a
previous NOPR issued in 2020 seeking to increase the RTO Incentive from 50 basis points to 100 basis points.
The supplemental NOPR also required utilities that have received the RTO Incentive for three or more years to
submit, within 30 days of the effective date of a final rule, a compliance filing to eliminate the incentive from
its tariff prospectively. The supplemental NOPR was subject to a 60-day comment period followed by a 30-day
period for reply comments. In July 2021, AEP submitted reply comments. AEP is awaiting a final rule from the
FERC.
In 2019, the FERC approved settlement agreements establishing base ROEs of 9.85% (10.35% inclusive of
RTO Incentive adder of 0.5%) and 10% (10.5% inclusive of RTO Incentive adder of 0.5%) for AEP’s PJM and
SPP transmission-owning subsidiaries, respectively. In 2020, the FERC determined the base ROE for MISO’s
transmission owning subsidiaries should be 10.02% (10.52% inclusive of RTO Incentive adder of 0.5%).
If the FERC modifies its RTO Incentive policy, it would be applied, as applicable, to AEP’s PJM, SPP and
MISO transmission owning subsidiaries on a prospective basis, and could affect future net income and cash
flows and impact financial condition. Based on management’s preliminary estimates, if a final rule is adopted
consistent with the April 2021 supplemental NOPR, it could reduce AEP’s pretax income by approximately $35
million to $50 million on an annual basis.
61
•FERC RTO Incentive Complaint - In February 2022, the Office of the Ohio Consumers’ Counsel (OCC) filed a
complaint against AEPSC, American Transmission Systems, Inc. and Duke Energy Ohio, alleging the 50-basis
point RTO incentive included in Ohio Transmission Owners’ respective transmission formula rates is not just
and reasonable and therefore should be eliminated on the basis that RTO participation is not voluntary, but
rather is required by Ohio law. In March 2022, AEPSC filed a motion to dismiss the OCC’s February 2022
complaint with the FERC on the basis of certain deficiencies, including that the complaint fails to request relief
that can be granted under FERC regulations because AEPSC is not a public utility nor does it have a
transmission rate on file with the FERC. In December 2022, the FERC issued an order removing the 0.5 basis
point RTO incentive from OPCo and OHTCo transmission formula rates effective the date of the February
2022 complaint filing and directed OPCo and OHTCo to provide refunds, with interest, within sixty days of the
date of its order. In January 2023, both AEPSC and the OCC filed requests for rehearing with the FERC. A
FERC order on rehearing is expected in 2023. Based on management’s preliminary estimates, the December
2022 FERC order is expected to reduce AEP’s pretax income by approximately $20 million on an annual basis.
In July 2021, the FERC issued an order denying Dayton Power and Light’s request for a 50 basis point RTO
incentive on the basis that its RTO participation was not voluntary, but rather is required by Ohio law. This
precedent could have an adverse impact on AEP’s Ohio transmission owning subsidiaries. In its February 2022
order on rehearing, the FERC affirmed the decision in its July 2021 order. The case is currently pending appeal
at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. In May 2022, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit
issued an order to hold the appeal in abeyance pending resolution of FERC proceedings on the Office of the
Ohio Consumers’ Counsels’ February 2022 RTO Incentive Complaint.
•2021 Louisiana Storm Cost Filing - In 2020, Hurricanes Laura and Delta caused power outages and extensive
damage to the SWEPCo service territories, primarily impacting the Louisiana jurisdiction. Following both
hurricanes, the LPSC issued orders allowing Louisiana utilities, including SWEPCo, to establish regulatory
assets to track and defer expenses associated with these storms. In February 2021, severe winter weather
impacted the Louisiana jurisdiction and in March 2021, the LPSC approved the deferral of incremental storm
restoration expenses related to the winter storm. In October 2021, SWEPCo filed a request with the LPSC for
recovery of $145 million in deferred storm costs associated with the three storms. As part of the filing,
SWEPCo requested recovery of the carrying charges on the deferred regulatory asset at a weighted average cost
of capital through a rider beginning in January 2022. In May 2022, LPSC staff testimony was submitted to the
LPSC. In July 2022, SWEPCo filed rebuttal testimony which agreed to make a request for securitization as the
LPSC staff had recommended in their testimony. An order is expected in the first quarter of 2023. If any of the
storm costs are not recoverable, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial
condition.
•In February 2021, severe winter weather had a significant impact in SPP, resulting in the declaration of Energy
Emergency Alert Levels 2 and 3 for the first time in SPP’s history. The winter storm increased the demand for
natural gas and restricted the available natural gas supply resulting in significantly increased market prices for
natural gas power plants to meet reliability needs for the SPP electric system. As a result of the severe winter
weather, PSO and SWEPCo incurred approximately $1.1 billion of extraordinary fuel costs and purchases of
electricity, which were deferred as regulatory assets.
In April 2021, the OCC approved a waiver for PSO allowing the deferral of the extraordinary fuel and
purchases of electricity as regulatory assets, including a carrying charge at an interim rate of 0.75%, over a
longer time period than what the FAC traditionally allows. Also in April 2021, legislation was enacted in
Oklahoma permitting securitized financing of qualified costs from extreme weather events. This legislation
provides certain authority to the OCC to approve amounts to be recovered from the issuance of ratepayer-
backed securitized bonds issued by the ODFA, an Oklahoma governmental agency. In January 2022, PSO,
OCC staff and certain intervenors filed a joint stipulation and settlement agreement with the OCC to approve
the securitization of PSO’s extraordinary fuel costs and purchases of electricity. In February 2022, the OCC
approved the joint stipulation and settlement agreement which included a determination that all of PSO’s
extraordinary fuel costs and purchases of electricity were prudent and reasonable and also provided a 0.75%
carrying charge related to those costs, subject to true-up based on actual financing costs.
62
In September 2022, PSO received proceeds of $687 million from the ODFA which issued ratepayer-backed
securitization bonds for the purpose of reimbursing PSO for extraordinary fuel costs and purchases of
electricity incurred during the February 2021 severe winter weather event, which were previously recorded as
Regulatory Assets on PSO’s balance sheet. The securitization bonds are the obligation of the ODFA and there is
no recourse against PSO in the event of a bond default, and therefore are not recorded as Long-term Debt on
PSO’s balance sheet. PSO will serve as the servicing agent of the bonds and is responsible for the routine
billing and collection of the securitization charges and remitting those collections back to the ODFA. The
securitization charges billed to and collected from customers are not included as revenue on PSO’s statement of
income. The collections from customers will occur over 20 years.
In March 2021, the APSC issued an order authorizing recovery of the Arkansas jurisdictional share of the retail
customer fuel costs over five years, with the appropriate carrying charge to be determined at a later date.
Subsequently, SWEPCo began recovery of these fuel costs. In April 2021, SWEPCo filed testimony supporting
a five-year recovery with a carrying charge of 6.05%. In June 2022, the APSC ordered SWEPCo to recover the
Arkansas jurisdictional share of the fuel costs over six years with a carrying charge equal to its weighted
average cost of capital, subject to a prudency review and true-up.
In March 2021, the LPSC approved a special order granting a temporary modification to the FAC and shortly
after SWEPCo began recovery of its Louisiana jurisdictional share of these fuel costs based on a five-year
recovery period inclusive of an interim carrying charge of 3.25%. SWEPCo will work with the LPSC to
finalize the actual recovery period and determine the appropriate carrying charge in future proceedings.
In August 2021, SWEPCo filed an application with the PUCT to implement a net interim fuel surcharge for the
Texas jurisdictional share of these retail fuel costs. The application requested a five-year recovery with a
carrying charge of 7.18%. In March 2022, the PUCT ordered SWEPCo to recover the Texas jurisdictional share
of the fuel costs over five years with a carrying charge of 1.65% and ordered SWEPCo to file a fuel
reconciliation addressing fuel costs from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2021.
If SWEPCo is unable to recover any of the costs relating to the extraordinary fuel and purchases of electricity,
or obtain authorization of a reasonable carrying charge on these costs, it could reduce future net income and
cash flows and impact financial condition.
•AEP transitioned to stand-alone treatment of NOLC in its PJM and SPP transmission formula rates beginning
with 2022 projected transmission revenue requirements and 2021 true-up to actual transmission revenue
requirements, and provided notice of this change in informational filings made with the FERC. Stand-alone
treatment of the NOLCs for transmission formula rates increased the 2021 and 2022 annual revenue
requirements by $78 million and $60 million, respectively. Through year-end 2022, the Registrants’ financial
statements reflect a provision for refund for certain NOLC revenues billed by PJM and SPP. Also, a certain
portion of the impact of inclusion of the NOLC in the 2021 annual formula rate true-up not yet billed by PJM
and SPP is not reflected in the Registrants’ revenues and expenses as the Registrants have not met the
requirements of alternative revenue recognition in accordance with the accounting guidance for “Regulated
Operations”.
AEP is also transitioning to stand-alone treatment of NOLC in retail jurisdiction base rate case filings.  As a
result of retail jurisdiction base rate cases in Arkansas, Indiana, Oklahoma and Texas, inclusion of NOLCs in
rates in those jurisdictions is contingent upon a supportive private letter ruling from the IRS. If the Registrant
Subsidiaries are successful in transitioning to stand-alone treatment of NOLC, it could have a material,
favorable impact on future net income.
•SPP Capacity Planning Reserve Margin - In July 2022, SPP approved a plan to increase its capacity planning
reserve margin from 12% to 15% starting in the summer of 2023. Compliance filings were made with SPP in
February 2023 and any deficiencies are required to be remedied by May 2023. SPP’s annual
63
non-compliance charge as a result of not meeting capacity requirements could range from approximately $86
thousand per MW to approximately $171 thousand per MW under the current SPP tariff. Non-compliance
could also result in a failure to meet NERC criteria. As of December 31, 2022, the increase in the capacity
planning reserve margin for PSO and SWEPCo to comply with this new SPP requirement was approximately
265 MWs.
Management has been taking actions and expects to comply with SPP’s 2023 capacity planning reserve margin
requirement. If PSO or SWEPCo incur charges or are unable to recover, or experience delays in recovering, the
costs of complying with SPP’s rule, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial
condition.
Utility Rates and Rate Proceedings
The Registrants file rate cases with their regulatory commissions in order to establish fair and appropriate electric
service rates to recover their costs and earn a fair return on their investments. The outcomes of these regulatory
proceedings impact the Registrants’ current and future results of operations, cash flows and financial position.
The following tables show the Registrants’ completed and pending base rate case proceedings in 2022. See Note 4 -
Rate Matters for additional information.
Completed Base Rate Case Proceedings
Approved Revenue Approved New Rates
Company Jurisdiction Requirement Increase ROE Effective
(in millions)
SWEPCo Texas $ 39.4 9.25% March 2021
I&M Indiana 61.4 (a) 9.7% February 2022
SWEPCo Arkansas 48.7 9.5% July 2022
KGPCo Tennessee 5.8 9.5% August 2022
SWEPCo Louisiana 21.0 9.5% February 2023
(a)See “2021 Indiana Base Rate Case” section of Note 4 - Rate Matters in the 2021 Annual Report
for additional information.
Pending Base Rate Case Proceedings
Requested Revenue Commission Staff/
Filing Requirement RequestedIntervenor Range of
Company Jurisdiction Date Increase ROE Recommended ROE
(in millions)
PSO Oklahoma November 2022$ 173.0 10.4% (a)
(a)Intervenor testimony is expected to be filed in the first quarter of 2023.
64
Deferred Fuel Costs
Increased fuel and purchased power prices in excess of amounts included in fuel-related revenues has led to an increase
in the under collection of fuel costs from customers in most jurisdictions. The table below illustrates the increase
(decrease) in the deferred fuel regulatory assets by company and jurisdiction, excluding the impacts of the February
2021 severe winter weather event. See the “February 2021 Severe Winter Weather Impacts in SPP” sections in Note 4
for additional information.
Traditional FAC As of As of Increase/
Company Jurisdiction Recovery Reset December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 (Decrease)
APCo Virginia (a) Annually $ 407.9 $ 128.6 $ 279.3 
APCo West Virginia Annually 288.5 72.7 215.8 
I&M Indiana Bi-Annually 38.1 — 38.1 
I&M Michigan Annually 9.0 6.4 2.6 
PSO Oklahoma (b) Annually 431.5 194.6 236.9 
SWEPCo Arkansas Annually 65.8 23.1 42.7 
SWEPCo Louisiana Monthly — 11.1 (11.1)
SWEPCo Texas Tri-Annually 191.4 47.0 144.4 
KPCo Kentucky Monthly 23.2 8.2 15.0 
WPCo West Virginia Annually 231.1 101.6 129.5 
Total (c) $ 1,686.5 $ 593.3 $ 1,093.2 
(a) Includes $223 million of noncurrent deferred fuel classified as a Regulatory Asset on APCo’s balance sheets as
of December 31, 2022.
(b) Includes $253 million of noncurrent deferred fuel classified as a Regulatory Asset on PSO’s balance sheets as of
December 31, 2022.
(c) Includes $23 million and $8 million as of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively, of deferred
fuel classified as Assets Held for Sale on the balance sheets. See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of
Note 7 for additional information.
The AEP utility subsidiaries are working with various state commissions on the timing of recovering deferred fuel
balances and have made the following recent filings:
In April 2022, APCo and WPCo submitted their 2022 annual ENEC filing with the WVPSC requesting a $297 million
annual increase in ENEC revenues, effective September 1, 2022. In February 2023, the WVPSC issued an order stating
that the commission will not grant additional rate increases for fuel costs until the WVPSC staff completes its prudency
review. See “2021 and 2022 ENEC Filings” section of Note 4 for additional information.
In August 2022, PSO requested an interim update to its annual Fuel Cost Adjustment (FCA) rates in accordance with
the terms of the established tariff which allows PSO or the OCC staff to request an interim FCA adjustment in the event
that the annual FCA over/under-recovered balance is $50 million or more on a cumulative basis. In September 2022,
the Director of the Public Utility Division of the OCC approved a FCA rate designed to collect a $402 million deferred
fuel balance over a 27-month period, effective with the first billing cycle of October 2022. PSO’s fuel and purchased
power expenses are subject to an annual prudency review by the OCC.
In September 2022, APCo submitted a request to the Virginia SCC to increase its annual fuel factor by approximately
$279 million. APCo implemented interim FAC rates effective November 2022 subject to Virginia SCC review. To help
mitigate the impact of rising fuel costs on customer bills, APCo proposed to recover its deferred fuel balance as of
October 31, 2022 over two years. An order from the Virginia SCC is expected in the first quarter of 2023.
65
In September 2022, SWEPCo filed a request with the APSC for an interim increase to its current Energy Cost Rate
(ECR) to recover $44 million of additional fuel costs incurred from April 2022 through August 2022, subsequent to the
last annual ECR rate change. The interim rate was effective with the first billing cycle of October 2022 and will be in
effect for six months until the ECR is reset in April 2023.
In October 2022, SWEPCo filed a request with the PUCT for an interim fuel surcharge to recover $83 million of
additional fuel costs incurred through August 2022. An interim rate is effective February 2023, subject to final approval
by the PUCT.
Dolet Hills Power Station and Related Fuel Operations
In 2020, management of SWEPCo and CLECO determined DHLC would not develop additional Oxbow Lignite
Company (Oxbow) mining areas for future lignite extraction and ceased extraction of lignite at the mine in May 2020.
In April 2020, SWEPCo and CLECO jointly filed a notification letter to the LPSC providing notice of the cessation of
lignite mining. In December 2021, the Dolet Hills Power Station was retired. While in operation, DHLC provided
100% of the fuel supply to Dolet Hills Power Station.
The remaining book value of Dolet Hills Power Station non-fuel related assets are recoverable by SWEPCo through
rate riders. As of December 31, 2022, SWEPCo’s share of the net investment in the Dolet Hills Power Station is
$112 million, including materials and supplies, net of cost of removal collected in rates.
Fuel costs incurred by the Dolet Hills Power Station are recoverable by SWEPCo through active fuel clauses and are
subject to prudency determinations by the various commissions. After closure of the DHLC mining operations and the
Dolet Hills Power Station, additional reclamation and other land-related costs incurred by DHLC and Oxbow will
continue to be billed to SWEPCo and included in existing fuel clauses. As of December 31, 2022, SWEPCo had a net
under-recovered fuel balance of $257 million, inclusive of costs related to Dolet Hills Power Station billed by DHLC,
but excluding impacts of the February 2021 severe winter weather event.
In March 2021, the LPSC issued an order allowing SWEPCo to recover up to $20 million of fuel costs in 2021 and
defer approximately $32 million of additional costs with a recovery period to be determined at a later date. In August
2022, the LPSC staff filed testimony recommending fuel disallowances of $72 million, including denial of recovery of
the $32 million deferral, with refunds to customers over five years. In September 2022, SWEPCo filed rebuttal
testimony addressing the LPSC staff recommendations.
In March 2021, the APSC approved fuel rates that provide recovery of $20 million for the Arkansas share of the 2021
Dolet Hills Power Station fuel costs over five years through the existing fuel clause.
In August 2022, SWEPCo filed a fuel reconciliation with the PUCT covering the fuel period of January 1, 2020 through
December 31, 2021. Intervenor testimony is due in the first quarter of 2023 and a decision from the PUCT is expected
in the third quarter of 2023.
If any of these costs are not recoverable, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial
condition.
Pirkey Plant and Related Fuel Operations
In 2020, management announced plans to retire the Pirkey Plant in 2023. The Pirkey Plant non-fuel costs are
recoverable by SWEPCo through base rates and rate riders. As part of the 2020 Louisiana Base Rate Case, the LPSC
authorized recovery of SWEPCo’s Louisiana share of the Pirkey Plant through a separate rider. Fuel costs are recovered
through active fuel clauses and are subject to prudency determinations by the various commissions. As of December 31,
2022, SWEPCo’s share of the net investment in the Pirkey Plant is $215 million, including CWIP, before cost of
removal. Sabine is a mining operator providing mining services to the Pirkey Plant. Under the provisions of the mining
agreement, SWEPCo is required to pay, as part of the cost of lignite delivered, an
66
amount equal to mining costs plus a management fee. SWEPCo expects fuel deliveries, including billings of all fixed
and operating costs, from Sabine to cease during the first quarter of 2023. Under the fuel agreements, SWEPCo’s fuel
inventory and unbilled fuel costs from mining related activities were $43 million as of December 31, 2022. As of
December 31, 2022, SWEPCo had a net under-recovered fuel balance of $257 million, inclusive of costs related to
Pirkey Plant billed by Sabine, but excluding impacts of the February 2021 severe winter weather event. Upon cessation
of lignite deliveries by Sabine to the Pirkey Plant, additional operational, reclamation and other land-related costs
incurred by Sabine will be billed to SWEPCo and included in existing fuel clauses. If any of these costs are not
recoverable, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.
Renewable Generation
The growth of AEP’s renewable generation portfolio reflects the company’s strategy to diversify generation resources
to provide clean energy options to customers that meet both their energy and capacity needs.
Contracted Renewable Generation Facilities
In recent years, AEP has developed its renewable portfolio within the Generation & Marketing segment. Activities have
included working directly with wholesale and large retail customers to provide tailored solutions based upon market
knowledge, technology innovations and deal structuring which may include distributed solar, wind, combined heat and
power, energy storage, waste heat recovery, energy efficiency, peaking generation and other forms of cost reducing
energy technologies. The Generation & Marketing segment also developed and/or acquired large scale renewable
generation projects that are backed with long-term contracts with creditworthy counterparties.
In February 2022, AEP management announced the initiation of a process to sell all or a portion of AEP Renewables’
competitive contracted renewables portfolio within the Generation & Marketing segment. Subsequently, AEP’s
investment in Flat Ridge 2 Wind LLC was removed from the competitive contracted renewables sale portfolio. In June
2022, as a result of deteriorating financial performance, sale negotiations and AEP’s ongoing evaluation and ultimate
decision to exit the investment in the near term, AEP determined a decline in the fair value of AEP’s investment in Flat
Ridge 2 was other than temporary and recorded a pretax other than temporary impairment charge of $186 million in
Equity Earnings (Losses) of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries on AEP’s statements of income. In the third quarter of 2022,
in accordance with the accounting guidance for “Investments - Equity Method and Joint Ventures”, AEP recorded an
additional $2 million pretax other than temporary impairment charge in Equity Earnings (Losses) of Unconsolidated
Subsidiaries on AEP’s statements of income. AEP has recorded a $188 million other than temporary impairment in its
investment in Flat Ridge 2 for the year ended December 31, 2022 in Equity Earnings (Losses) of Unconsolidated
Subsidiaries on AEP’s statements of income. AEP’s determination of fair value utilized the accounting guidance for
Fair Value Measurement market approach to valuation and was based on negotiations to sell the investment to a
nonaffiliate. In September 2022, AEP signed a Purchase and Sale Agreement with a nonaffiliate for AEP’s interest in
Flat Ridge 2. The transaction closed in the fourth quarter of 2022 and had an immaterial impact on the financial
statements at closing.
As of December 31, 2022, the competitive contracted renewable portfolio assets totaled 1.4 gigawatts of generation
resources representing consolidated solar and wind assets, with a net book value of $1.2 billion, and a 50% interest in
four joint venture wind farms, totaling $247 million, accounted for as equity method investments.
In late January 2023, AEP received final bids from interested parties. In February 2023, AEP’s Board of Directors
approved management’s plan to sell the competitive contracted renewables portfolio and AEP signed an agreement to
sell the competitive contracted renewables portfolio to a nonaffiliated party for $1.5 billion including the assumption of
project debt. As part of the sale agreement, AEP provided the acquirer an indemnification related to certain losses, not
to exceed $70 million, which could result from one of the joint venture wind farm’s inability to meet certain minimum
performance requirements.
The sale is subject to FERC approval, clearance from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States and
approval under applicable competition laws. AEP expects to close on the sale in the second quarter of 2023 and
67
receive cash proceeds, net of taxes, transaction fees and other customary closing adjustments, of approximately $1.2
billion.
Management concluded the consolidated assets within the competitive contracted renewables portfolio met the
accounting requirements to be presented as Held for Sale in the first quarter of 2023 based on the receipt of final bids,
Board of Director approval to consummate a sale transaction and the signing of the sale agreement. AEP anticipates
recording an estimated pretax loss ranging from $175 million to $225 million ($100 million to $150 million after-tax),
in the first quarter of 2023 as a result of reaching Held for Sale status. Management concluded the impact of any other
than temporary decline in the fair value of the four joint venture wind farms was not material to AEP’s December 31,
2022 financial statements. Any changes to the book value or carrying value of these assets, or the anticipated sale price,
could further reduce future net income and impact financial condition.
Regulated Renewable Generation Facilities
North Central Wind Facilities
In 2020, PSO and SWEPCo received regulatory approvals to acquire the NCWF, comprised of three Oklahoma wind
facilities totaling 1,484 MWs. PSO and SWEPCo own undivided interests of 45.5% and 54.5% of the NCWF,
respectively. Output from the NCWF serves retail load in PSO’s Oklahoma service territory and both retail and FERC
wholesale load in SWEPCo’s service territories in Arkansas and Louisiana. The Oklahoma and Louisiana portions of
the NCWF revenue requirement, net of PTC benefit, are recoverable through authorized riders beginning at commercial
operation and until such time as amounts are reflected in base rates. The Arkansas portion of the NCWF revenue
requirement was approved for recovery through base rates in the 2021 Arkansas base rate case. The table below
provides a summary of the facilities as of December 31, 2022:
ProjectIn-Service DateNet Book
ValueFederal PTC
Qualification % (a)Generating
Capacity
(in millions) (in MWs)
SundanceApril 2021 $ 282.3 100 % 199
MaverickSeptember 2021 398.3 80 % 287
Traverse March 2022 1,255.0 100 %(b) 998
(a) PTC benefits are available for a ten year period following the in-service date.
(b)The PTC for Traverse was increased to 100% in the third quarter of 2022 as a result of the
IRA legislation.
See “North Central Wind Energy Facilities” section of Note 7 for additional information.
68
Recent Renewable Generation Filings
In December 2021 and January 2022, APCo filed petitions with the Virginia SCC and WVPSC, respectively, for
prudency and cost recovery of several renewable projects. In July 2022, the Virginia SCC approved APCo’s December
2021 petition for prudency and cost recovery. In January 2023, the WVPSC issued an order approving the
remaining projects included in the petition. The table below provides a list of all remaining projects from the APCo
petitions.
Generation
TypeExpected Commercial
Operation Owned/PPAGenerating
Capacity
(in MWs)
Solar Second Quarter 2023 Owned 5
Solar Fourth Quarter 2025 PPA 20
Solar In Operation PPA 15
Wind Third Quarter 2025 Owned 204
Total Renewable Projects 244
In May 2022, SWEPCo submitted filings before the APSC, LPSC and PUCT requesting approval to acquire three
renewable energy projects totaling 999 MWs. In October 2022, SWEPCo also submitted the necessary filings with the
FERC. The projects are comprised of two wind facilities, totaling 799 MWs, and one solar facility, totaling 200 MWs.
One of the wind facilities, totaling approximately 201 MWs, is expected to reach commercial operation in December
2024 with the remaining facilities expected to reach commercial operation in December 2025. In January 2023, a
hearing was held at the PUCT. Additionally in January 2023, SWEPCo filed an unopposed joint settlement agreement
with the APSC that supported approval of the projects. An order from the APSC is expected in the second quarter of
2023. In December, 2022, an intervenor filed suit seeking injunctive relief to effectively halt SWEPCo’s regulatory
proceedings, among other relief; however, the magistrate judge for the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of Texas has recommended denial of intervenor’s request for injunctive relief.
In November 2022, PSO submitted filings with the OCC requesting approval of its fuel-free power plan to purchase
three new wind farms, totaling approximately 553 MWs, and three new solar facilities, totaling approximately 443
MWs. These projects are expected to reach commercial operation in 2025. This proposed plan will help meet projected
power needs while protecting customers from volatility in energy costs driven by high natural gas and power prices. In
addition, PSO has recently executed an agreement to purchase the 154 MW Rock Falls Wind Facility, and has requested
cost recovery in the 2022 Oklahoma Base Rate Case. In February 2023, the FERC approved PSO’s acquisition of the
Rock Falls Wind Facility under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act. See “2022 Oklahoma Base Rate Case” section of
Note 4 for additional information.
69
Significant Renewable Generation Requests for Proposal (RFP)
As part of AEP’s transition to diversify the company’s generation resources and build its renewable generation
portfolio, the Registrants file RFPs in an effort to identify potential wind and solar projects. The table below includes
RFPs recently issued for owned generation. These projects would be subject to regulatory approval.
Company Issuance DateGeneration
TypeGenerating
Capacity
(in MWs)
APCo January 2022 Wind 1,000 
APCo January 2022 Solar (a) 100 
I&M March 2022 Wind (a)(b) 800 
I&M March 2022 Solar (a)(b) 500 
SWEPCo September 2022 Wind (a) 1,900 
SWEPCo September 2022 Solar (a) 500 
Total Significant RFPs 4,800 
(a) Includes an option for battery storage.
(b)Includes solicitation of bids for both owned projects and PPAs.
Disposition of KPCo and KTCo
In October 2021, AEP entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement (SPA) to sell KPCo and KTCo to Liberty Utilities Co.,
a subsidiary of Algonquin Power & Utilities Corp. (Liberty), for approximately a $2.85 billion enterprise value. In May
2022, the KPSC approved the transfer of KPCo to Liberty subject to certain conditions contingent upon the closing of
the sale. AEP has received clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (HSR) and the
Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States during 2022. Clearance under the HSR expired in January 2023.
AEP and Liberty refiled a joint application seeking HSR clearance in February 2023. The sale is also contingent upon
FERC approval under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act. The parties to the SPA have certain termination rights if
the closing of the sale does not occur by April 26, 2023.
Transfer of Ownership
FERC Proceedings
In December 2021, Liberty, KPCo and KTCo (the applicants) requested FERC approval of the sale under Section 203
of the Federal Power Act. In February 2022, several intervenors in the case filed protests related to whether the sale will
negatively impact the wholesale transmission rates of applicants. In April 2022, the FERC issued a deficiency letter
stating that the Section 203 application is deficient and that additional information is required to process it. In May
2022, Liberty, KPCo and KTCo supplemented the application. In December 2022, the FERC issued an order denying,
without prejudice, authorization of the proposed sale stating the applicants failed to demonstrate the proposed
transaction will not have an adverse effect on rates.
In January 2023, AEP, AEPTCo, and Liberty entered into an amendment to the SPA that specified the applicants will
submit a new filing for approval under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act. The new filing was submitted to the
FERC on February 14, 2023. The applicants requested expedited treatment of the new filing, including an accelerated
comment period. In response, the FERC granted a shortened 45 day comment period. The applicants believe the new
Section 203 application addresses the concerns raised in the FERC’s December 2022 order. The application contains
several additional commitments by Liberty to mitigate potential adverse impacts on FERC jurisdictional rates over the
next five years, including: a) maintaining the current return on equity; b) maintaining the current cost cap on equity; c)
financing future investments at the current credit rating; and d) capping certain operating and administrative costs. The
sale remains subject to FERC approval. The statute requires an order from the FERC within 180 days of the February
14, 2023 filing date in accordance with Section 203 of the Federal Power Act.
70
KPSC Proceedings
In May 2022, the KPSC approved the transfer of KPCo to Liberty subject to conditions contingent upon the closing of
the sale, including establishment of regulatory liabilities to subsidize retail customer transmission and distribution
expenses, a fuel adjustment clause bill credit, and a three-year Big Sandy decommissioning rider rate holiday during
which KPCo’s carrying charge is reduced by 50%.
Mitchell Plant Operations and Maintenance Agreement and Ownership Agreement
KPCo and WPCo each own a 50% undivided interest in the 1,560 MW coal-fired Mitchell Plant. As of December 31,
2022 and 2021, the net book value of KPCo’s share of the Mitchell Plant, before cost of removal including CWIP and
inventory, was $577 million and $586 million, respectively. The SPA includes a condition precedent to closing
requiring the issuance of regulatory orders approving new Mitchell Plant agreements.
The KPSC and WVPSC issued orders proposing materially different modifications to the Mitchell Plant agreements
filed by AEP such that the new agreements could not be executed by the parties. In lieu of new agreements, in July
2022, KPCo and WPCo confirmed with the KPSC and WVPSC, respectively, that they will continue operating under
the existing Mitchell Agreement, utilizing the Mitchell Agreement Operating Committee’s authority under that
agreement to issue appropriate resolutions so the parties can operate in accordance with each state commission’s
directives related to CCR and ELG investment. In September 2022, pursuant to resolutions under the existing Mitchell
Plant agreement, WPCo replaced KPCo as the Operator of Mitchell Plant.
Summary
As a result of the conditions imposed by the KPSC’s May 2022 order, in the second quarter of 2022, AEP recorded a
$69 million loss on the expected sale of the Kentucky Operations in accordance with accounting guidance for Fair
Value Measurement.
In September 2022, AEP, AEPTCo and Liberty entered into an amendment to the SPA which reduced the purchase price
to approximately $2.646 billion and Liberty agreed to waive, upon FERC approval of the sale, the SPA condition
precedent to closing requiring the issuance of regulatory orders approving new proposed Mitchell Plant agreements.
Further, as a result of the reduced purchase price from the September Amendment and the change to the anticipated
timing of the completion of the transaction, AEP recorded an additional $194 million pretax loss ($149 million net of
tax) on the expected sale of the Kentucky Operations in the third quarter of 2022 in accordance with the accounting
guidance for Fair Value Measurement.
As a result of the December 2022 FERC order and resulting delay in the anticipated timing of the closing of the
transaction, AEP recorded an additional $100 million pretax loss ($79 million net of tax) on the expected sale of the
Kentucky Operations in December 2022 in accordance with the accounting guidance for Fair Value Measurement. In
total, AEP recorded a $363 million pretax loss of ($297 million net of tax) on the expected sale of the Kentucky
Operations for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022.
Management believes it is probable that FERC authorization under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act will be
received and closing will occur after receipt of the order. Therefore, the assets and liabilities of KPCo and KTCo were
classified as Held for Sale in the December 31, 2022 balance sheets of AEP and AEPTCo. Upon closing, Liberty will
acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of KPCo and KTCo, excluding pension and other post-retirement benefit
plan assets and liabilities. AEP expects to provide customary transition services to Liberty for a period of time after
closing of the transaction. AEP expects cash proceeds, net of taxes and transaction fees, from the sale of approximately
$1.2 billion. AEP plans to use the proceeds from the sale to fund its continued investment in regulated businesses,
including transmission and regulated renewables projects. If additional reductions in the fair value of the Kentucky
Operations occur, it would reduce future net income and cash flows.
71
Merchant Portion of Turk Plant
SWEPCo constructed the Turk Plant, a base load 600 MW (650 MW net maximum capacity) pulverized coal ultra-
supercritical generating unit in Arkansas, which was placed in-service in December 2012 and is included in the
Vertically Integrated Utilities segment. SWEPCo owns 73% (440 MWs/477 MWs) of the Turk Plant and operates the
facility.
Approximately 20% of the Turk Plant output is currently not subject to cost-based rate recovery in Arkansas. This
portion of the plant’s output is being sold into the wholesale market. Approximately 80% of the Turk Plant investment
is recovered under retail cost-based rate recovery in Texas, Louisiana and through SWEPCo’s wholesale customers
under FERC-approved rates. In November 2022, SWEPCo filed a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity
with the APSC for approval to operate the Turk plant to serve Arkansas customers and recover the associated costs
through a cost recovery rider. Cost-based recovery of the Turk Plant would aid SWEPCo’s near-term capacity needs
and support compliance with SPP’s 2023 increased capacity planning reserve margin requirements. As of December 31,
2022, the net book value of the Turk Plant was $1.4 billion, before cost of removal including CWIP and inventory. If
SWEPCo cannot ultimately recover its investment and expenses related to the Arkansas retail portion of the Turk Plant,
it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.
Winter Storm Elliott
In December 2022, severe winter weather and extreme cold temperatures resulted in an unusually high demand for
electricity and the declaration of an Energy Emergency Alert (EEA) in the PJM region. The EEA was in effect from
December 23, 2022 through December 25, 2022. During this time, all electric generating units located within the PJM
region were directed to operate up to their maximum generation output levels. The issuance of the EEA also triggered
PJM Performance Assessment Intervals (PAI) for each committed generation capacity resource. During a PAI event,
PJM evaluates the performance of each committed capacity resource against PJM performance standards. Generating
units that underperform during a PAI event are subject to non-performance charges while generating units that perform
above expectations are awarded performance bonuses. PJM awards and allocates the bonus performance payments
from the pool of non-performance charges collected during the PAI event. PJM provided preliminary performance
standards for each generating resource in January 2023 and additional preliminary generating unit performance data
was released by PJM in February 2023. PJM currently expects to invoice non-performance charges and bonus
payments in the month-end bill for March 2023 issued in early April 2023. As of December 31, 2022, based on
preliminary PJM performance standards and internal generation estimates, OPCo and APCo recorded $7 million and $2
million, respectively, of non-performance charges from the December PAI event in Electricity, Transmission and
Distribution revenues and Purchased Electricity, Fuel and Other Consumables Used for Electric Generation,
respectively, on the statements of income. The Registrants did not record estimated bonus performance payments as of
December 31, 2022 as those amounts were not reasonably estimable.
72
LITIGATION
In the ordinary course of business, AEP is involved in employment, commercial, environmental and regulatory
litigation. Since it is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, management cannot predict the eventual
resolution, timing or amount of any loss, fine or penalty. Management assesses the probability of loss for each
contingency and accrues a liability for cases that have a probable likelihood of loss if the loss can be
estimated.  Adverse results in these proceedings have the potential to reduce future net income and cash flows and
impact financial condition. See Note 4 – Rate Matters and Note 6 – Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies for
additional information.
Rockport Plant Litigation
In 2013, the Wilmington Trust Company filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
against AEGCo and I&M alleging that it would be unlawfully burdened by the terms of the modified NSR consent
decree after the Rockport Plant, Unit 2 lease expiration in December 2022.  The terms of the consent decree allow the
installation of environmental emission control equipment, repowering, refueling or retirement of the unit.  The plaintiffs
sought a judgment declaring that the defendants breached the lease, must satisfy obligations related to installation of
emission control equipment and indemnify the plaintiffs.  See “Obligations under the New Source Review Litigation
Consent Decree” section below for additional information.
After the litigation proceeded at the district court and appellate court, in April 2021, I&M and AEGCo reached an
agreement to acquire 100% of the interests in Rockport Plant, Unit 2 for $116 million from certain financial institutions
that own the unit through trusts established by Wilmington Trust, the nonaffiliated owner trustee of the ownership
interests in the unit. The transaction closed at the expiration of the Rockport Plant, Unit 2 lease in December 2022 and
also resulted in a final settlement of, and release of claims in, the lease litigation.
Subsequent to the end of the Rockport Plant, Unit 2 lease in December 2022, AEGCo’s 50% ownership share of
Rockport Plant, Unit 2 is being billed to I&M under a FERC-approved UPA. I&M’s purchased power from AEGCo and
I&M’s 50% ownership share of Rockport Plant, Unit 2 electricity generated represent a merchant resource for I&M
until Rockport Plant, Unit 2 is retired in 2028. A 2021 IURC order approved a settlement agreement addressing the
future use of Rockport Plant, Unit 2 as a short-term capacity resource through the June 2023 - May 2024 PJM planning
year. The MPSC issued an order in February 2023 approving the settlement agreement on I&M’s 2022 Integrated
Resource Plan (IRP) filing, which included certain cost recovery for the remaining net book value of leasehold
improvements made during the term of the Rockport Plant, Unit 2 lease and future use of Rockport Plant, Unit 2 as a
capacity resource. If I&M cannot recover its future investment and expenses related to the merchant share of Rockport
Plant Unit 2, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.
Claims Challenging Transition of American Electric Power System Retirement Plan to Cash Balance Formula
Four participants in The American Electric Power System Retirement Plan (the Plan) filed a class action complaint in
December 2021 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio against AEPSC and the Plan. When the
Plan’s benefit formula was changed in the year 2000, AEP provided a special provision for employees hired before
January 1, 2001, allowing them to continue benefit accruals under the then benefit formula for a full 10 years alongside
of the new cash balance benefit formula then being implemented.  Employees who were hired on or after January 1,
2001 accrued benefits only under the new cash balance benefit formula.  The plaintiffs assert a number of claims on
behalf of themselves and the purported class, including that: (a) the Plan violates the requirements under the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) intended to preclude back-loading the accrual of benefits to the end of a
participant’s career, (b) the Plan violates the age discrimination prohibitions of ERISA and the Age Discrimination in
Employment Act and (c) AEP failed to provide required notice regarding the changes to the Plan. Among other relief,
the Complaint seeks reformation of the Plan to provide additional benefits and the recovery of plan benefits for former
employees under such reformed plan. The plaintiffs previously had submitted claims for additional plan benefits to
AEP, which were denied. On February 15, 2022, AEPSC and the Plan filed a motion to
73
dismiss the complaint for failure to state a claim. On August 16, 2022, the district court granted the motion to dismiss
the complaint without prejudice. The plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to file an amended complaint, which the Court
denied on December 1, 2022. The plaintiffs did not file an appeal by the deadline of January 3, 2023.
Litigation Related to Ohio House Bill 6 (HB 6)
In 2019, Ohio adopted and implemented HB 6 which benefits OPCo by authorizing rate recovery for certain costs
including renewable energy contracts and OVEC’s coal-fired generating units. OPCo engaged in lobbying efforts and
provided testimony during the legislative process in connection with HB 6. In July 2020, an investigation led by the
U.S. Attorney’s Office resulted in a federal grand jury indictment of an Ohio legislator and associates in connection
with an alleged racketeering conspiracy involving the adoption of HB 6. After AEP learned of the criminal allegations
against the Ohio legislator and others relating to HB 6, AEP, with assistance from outside advisors, conducted a review
of the circumstances surrounding the passage of the bill. Management does not believe that AEP was involved in any
wrongful conduct in connection with the passage of HB 6.
In August 2020, an AEP shareholder filed a putative class action lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of Ohio against AEP and certain of its officers for alleged violations of securities laws. The amended complaint
alleged misrepresentations or omissions by AEP regarding: (a) its alleged participation in or connection to public
corruption with respect to the passage of HB 6 and (b) its regulatory, legislative, political contribution, 501(c)(4)
organization contribution and lobbying activities in Ohio. The complaint sought monetary damages, among other forms
of relief. In December 2021, the district court issued an opinion and order dismissing the securities litigation complaint
with prejudice, determining that the complaint failed to plead any actionable misrepresentations or omissions. The
plaintiffs did not appeal the ruling.
In January 2021, an AEP shareholder filed a derivative action in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
Ohio purporting to assert claims on behalf of AEP against certain AEP officers and directors. In February 2021, a
second AEP shareholder filed a similar derivative action in the Court of Common Pleas of Franklin County, Ohio. In
April 2021, a third AEP shareholder filed a similar derivative action in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District
of Ohio and a fourth AEP shareholder filed a similar derivative action in the Supreme Court for the State of New York,
Nassau County. These derivative complaints allege the officers and directors made misrepresentations and omissions
similar to those alleged in the putative securities class action lawsuit filed against AEP. The derivative complaints
together assert claims for: (a) breach of fiduciary duty, (b) waste of corporate assets, (c) unjust enrichment, (d) breach
of duty for insider trading and (e) contribution for violations of sections 10(b) and 21D of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934; and seek monetary damages and changes to AEP’s corporate governance and internal policies among other
forms of relief. The court entered a scheduling order in the New York state court derivative action staying the case other
than with respect to briefing the motion to dismiss. AEP filed substantive and forum-based motions to dismiss on April
29, 2022. On September 13, 2022, the New York state court granted the forum-based motion to dismiss with prejudice
and the plaintiffs subsequently filed a notice of appeal with the New York appellate court. On January 20, 2023, the
New York plaintiff filed a motion to intervene in the pending Ohio federal court action and withdrew his appeal in New
York on January 24, 2023. AEP filed a brief in opposition to intervention on February 3, 2023. The two derivative
actions pending in federal district court in Ohio have been consolidated and the plaintiffs in the consolidated action
filed an amended complaint. AEP filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint on May 3, 2022 and briefing on the
motion to dismiss has been completed. Discovery remains stayed pending the district court’s ruling on the motion to
dismiss. The plaintiff in the Ohio state court case advised that they no longer agreed to stay the proceedings, therefore,
AEP filed a motion to continue the stays of proceedings on May 20, 2022 and the plaintiff filed an amended complaint
on June 2, 2022. On June 15, 2022, the Ohio state court entered an order continuing the stays of that case until the
resolution of the consolidated derivative actions pending in Ohio federal district court. The defendants will continue to
defend against the claims. Management is unable to determine a range of potential losses that is reasonably possible of
occurring.
In March 2021, AEP received a litigation demand letter from counsel representing a purported AEP shareholder. The
litigation demand letter is directed to the Board of Directors of AEP and contains factual allegations involving HB 6
that are generally consistent with those in the derivative litigation filed in state and federal court. The letter demands,
among other things, that the AEP Board undertake an independent investigation into alleged legal violations by
directors and officers, and that, following such investigation, AEP commence a civil action for breaches of fiduciary
duty and related claims and take appropriate disciplinary action against those individuals who
74
allegedly harmed the company. The shareholder that sent the letter has since withdrawn the litigation demand, which is
now terminated and of no further effect.
In May 2021, AEP received a subpoena from the SEC’s Division of Enforcement seeking various documents, including
documents relating to the passage of HB 6 and documents relating to AEP’s policies and financial processes and
controls. In August 2022, AEP received a second subpoena from the SEC seeking various additional documents relating
to its ongoing investigation. AEP is cooperating fully with the SEC’s investigation, which has included taking
testimony from certain individuals. Although the outcome of the SEC’s investigation cannot be predicted, management
does not believe the results of this investigation will have a material impact on financial condition, results of operations
or cash flows.
Claims for Indemnification Related to Damages Resulting from the Federal EPA’s Denial of Alternative Closure
Deadline for Gavin Plant and Associated Findings of Compliance
In November 2022, the Federal EPA issued a final decision denying Gavin Power LLC’s requested extension to allow a
CCR surface impoundment at the Gavin Power Station to continue to receive CCR and non-CCR waste streams after
April 11, 2021 until May 4, 2023 (the Gavin Denial). As part of the Gavin Denial, the Federal EPA made several
determinations related to the CCR Rule (see “Coal Combustion Residual (CCR) Rule” section below for additional
information), including a determination that the closure of the 300 acre unlined fly ash reservoir (FAR) is noncompliant
with the CCR Rule in multiple respects. The Gavin Power Station was formerly owned and operated by AEP and was
sold to Gavin Power LLC and Lightstone Generation LLC in 2017. Pursuant to the PSA, AEP maintained responsibility
to complete closure of the FAR in accordance with the closure plan approved by the Ohio EPA which was completed in
July 2021. The PSA contains indemnification provisions, pursuant to which the owners of the Gavin Power Station
have notified AEP they believe they are entitled to indemnification for any damages that may result from the Gavin
Denial, as well as any future enforcement or litigation resulting from the Federal EPA’s determinations of
noncompliance with various aspects of the CCR Rule as part of the Gavin Denial. Management does not believe that
the owners of the Gavin Power Station have any valid claim for indemnity or otherwise against AEP under the PSA. In
addition, Gavin Power LLC, several AEP subsidiaries, and other parties have filed Petitions for Review of the Gavin
Denial with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Management is unable to determine a range
of potential losses that is reasonably possible of occurring.
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
AEP has a substantial capital investment program and incurs additional operational costs to comply with environmental
control requirements.  Additional investments and operational changes will be made in response to existing and
anticipated requirements to reduce emissions from fossil generation and in response to rules governing the beneficial
use and disposal of coal combustion by-products, clean water and renewal permits for certain water discharges.
AEP is engaged in litigation about environmental issues, was notified of potential responsibility for the clean-up of
contaminated sites and incurred costs for disposal of SNF and future decommissioning of the nuclear
units.  Management is engaged in the development of possible future requirements including the items discussed
below. 
AEP will seek recovery of expenditures for pollution control technologies and associated costs from customers through
rates in regulated jurisdictions.  Environmental rules could result in accelerated depreciation, impairment of assets or
regulatory disallowances.  If AEP cannot recover the costs of environmental compliance, it would reduce future net
income and cash flows and impact financial condition.
Environmental Controls Impact on the Generating Fleet
The rules and proposed environmental controls discussed below will have a material impact on AEP System generating
units.  Management continues to evaluate the impact of these rules, project scope and technology available to achieve
compliance.  As of December 31, 2022, the AEP System owned generating capacity of approximately 25,000 MWs, of
which approximately 11,300 MWs were coal-fired.  Management continues to
75
refine the cost estimates of complying with these rules and other impacts of the environmental proposals on fossil
generation. Based upon management estimates, AEP’s future investment to meet these existing and proposed
requirements ranges from approximately $125 million to $200 million through 2026.
The cost estimates will change depending on the timing of implementation and whether the Federal EPA provides
flexibility in finalizing proposed rules or revising certain existing requirements.  The cost estimates will also change
based on: (a) potential state rules that impose more stringent standards, (b) additional rulemaking activities in response
to court decisions, (c) actual performance of the pollution control technologies installed, (d) changes in costs for new
pollution controls, (e) new generating technology developments, (f) total MWs of capacity retired and replaced,
including the type and amount of such replacement capacity, (g) compliance with the Federal EPA’s revised coal
combustion residual rules and (h) other factors.  In addition, management continues to evaluate the economic feasibility
of environmental investments on regulated and competitive plants.
Obligations under the New Source Review Litigation Consent Decree
In 2007, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio approved a consent decree between AEP subsidiaries
in the eastern area of the AEP System and the Department of Justice, the Federal EPA, eight northeastern states and
other interested parties to settle claims that the AEP subsidiaries violated the NSR provisions of the CAA when they
undertook various equipment repair and replacement projects over a period of nearly 20 years.  The consent decree’s
terms include installation of environmental control equipment on certain generating units, a declining cap on SO and
NO emissions from the AEP System and various mitigation projects. The consent decree has been modified seven
times, for various reasons, most recently in 2022. All of the environmental control equipment required by the consent
decree has been installed.
Clean Air Act Requirements
The CAA establishes a comprehensive program to protect and improve the nation’s air quality and control sources of
air emissions. The states implement and administer many of these programs and could impose additional or more
stringent requirements. The primary regulatory programs that continue to drive investments in AEP’s existing
generating units include: (a) periodic revisions to NAAQS and the development of SIPs to achieve more stringent
standards, (b) implementation of the regional haze program by the states and the Federal EPA, (c) regulation of
hazardous air pollutant emissions under MATS, (d) implementation and review of CSAPR and (e) the Federal EPA’s
regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from fossil generation under Section 111 of the CAA. Notable developments in
significant CAA regulatory requirements affecting AEP’s operations are discussed in the following sections.
National Ambient Air Quality Standards
The Federal EPA periodically reviews and revises the NAAQS for criteria pollutants under the CAA. Revisions tend to
increase the stringency of the standards, which in turn may require AEP to make investments in pollution control
equipment at existing generating units, or, since most units are already well controlled, to make changes in how units
are dispatched and operated. In January 2023, the Federal EPA announced its proposed decision to strengthen the
primary (health-based) annual PM2.5 standard. The Biden administration has previously indicated that it is likely to
revisit the NAAQS for ozone, which were left unchanged by the prior administration following its review. Management
cannot currently predict if any changes to either standard are likely to be finalized or what such changes may be, but
will continue to monitor this issue and any future rulemakings.
Regional Haze
The Federal EPA issued a Clean Air Visibility Rule (CAVR) in 2005, which could require power plants and other
facilities to install best available retrofit technology to address regional haze in federal parks and other protected areas.
CAVR is implemented by the states, through SIPs, or by the Federal EPA, through FIPs. In 2017, the Federal EPA
revised the rules governing submission of SIPs to implement the visibility programs, including a provision that
postponed the due date for the next comprehensive SIP revisions until 2021. Petitions for review of the final rule
revisions have been filed in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.2
X
76
Arkansas has an approved regional haze SIP and all of SWEPCo's affected units are in compliance with the relevant
requirements.
In Texas, the Federal EPA disapproved portions of the Texas regional haze SIP and finalized a FIP that allows
participation in the CSAPR ozone season program to satisfy the NO regional haze obligations for electric generating
units in Texas. Additionally, the Federal EPA finalized an intrastate SO emissions trading program based on CSAPR
allowance allocations. Legal challenges to these various rulemakings are pending in both the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Management cannot predict the
outcome of that litigation, although management supports the intrastate trading program as a compliance alternative to
source-specific controls and has intervened in the litigation in support of the Federal EPA.
Cross-State Air Pollution Rule
CSAPR is a regional trading program designed to address interstate transport of emissions that contribute significantly
to non-attainment and maintenance of the 1997 ozone and PM NAAQS in downwind states.  CSAPR relies on SO and
NO allowances and individual state budgets to compel further emission reductions from electric utility generating
units.  Interstate trading of allowances is allowed on a restricted basis.
In January 2021, the Federal EPA finalized a revised CSAPR rule, which substantially reduces the ozone season NO
budgets in 2021-2024. Several utilities and other entities potentially subject to the Federal EPA’s NO regulations have
challenged that final rule in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit and oral arguments were
held in September 2022. Management cannot predict the outcome of that litigation, but believes it can meet the
requirements of the rule in the near term, and is evaluating its compliance options for later years, when the budgets are
further reduced. In addition, in February 2023, the EPA Administrator finalized the denial of 2015 Ozone NAAQS SIPs
for 19 states. A FIP that further revises the ozone season NO budgets under the existing CSAPR program in those
states is expected to be finalized in the spring of 2023 and will likely take effect for the 2023 ozone season.
Management is evaluating the impacts of the rule changes.
Climate Change, CO Regulation and Energy Policy
In 2019, the Affordable Clean Energy (ACE) rule established a framework for states to adopt standards of performance
for utility boilers based on heat rate improvements for such boilers. However, in January 2021, the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit vacated the ACE rule and remanded it to the Federal EPA. In October
2021, the United States Supreme Court granted certiorari and combined four separate petitions seeking review of the
District of Columbia Circuit Court decisions. Oral arguments were held in February 2022 and on June 30, 2022, the
United States Supreme Court reversed the District of Columbia Circuit Court’s decision and remanded for further
proceedings. The Federal EPA must take some action before anything is required of the utilities as a result of this
decision. At a minimum, if the Federal EPA intends to implement the ACE rule, it must conduct additional rulemaking
to update its applicable deadlines, which have all passed. Alternatively, the Federal EPA may abandon the ACE rule and
proceed to regulate greenhouse gases through a new rule, the scope of which is unknown. The Federal EPA has
announced it expects to propose a new rule in 2023. Management is unable to predict how the Federal EPA will
respond to the Court’s remand.
In 2018, the Federal EPA filed a proposed rule revising the standards for new sources and determined that partial
carbon capture and storage is not the best system of emission reduction because it is not available throughout the U.S.
and is not cost-effective. That rule has not been finalized. The Federal EPA has indicated that it intends to conduct a
comprehensive review of the existing standards and, if appropriate, amend the emission standards for new fossil fuel-
fired generating units. A proposed rule is expected in 2023. Management continues to actively monitor these
rulemaking activities.X
2
2
X
X
X
X
2
77
While no federal regulatory requirements to reduce CO emissions are in place, AEP has taken action to reduce and
offset CO emissions from its generating fleet. AEP expects CO emissions from its operations to continue to decline
due to the retirement of some of its coal-fired generation units, and actions taken to diversify the generation fleet and
increase energy efficiency where there is regulatory support for such activities. The majority of the states where AEP
has generating facilities passed legislation establishing renewable energy, alternative energy and/or energy efficiency
requirements that can assist in reducing carbon emissions.  In April 2020, Virginia enacted clean energy legislation to
allow the state to participate in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI), require the retirement of all fossil-
fueled generation by 2045 and require 100% renewable energy to be provided to Virginia customers by 2050.
Management is taking steps to comply with these requirements, including increasing wind and solar installations,
purchasing renewable power and broadening AEP System’s portfolio of energy efficiency programs. In early 2022,
Virginia’s governor issued an executive order directing his administration to end Virginia’s participation in RGGI. In
December 2022, the Virginia Air Pollution Control Board voted in support of the proposed regulations to withdraw
Virginia from RGGI. These regulations have not been finalized. Management will continue to monitor these rulemaking
activities.
In October 2022, AEP announced new intermediate and long-term CO emission reduction goals, based on the output of
the company’s integrated resource plans, which take into account economics, customer demand, grid reliability and
resiliency, regulations and the company’s current business strategy. AEP adjusted its near-term carbon dioxide emission
reduction target from a 2000 baseline to a 2005 baseline, upgraded its 80% reduction by 2030 target to include full
Scope 1 emissions and accelerated its net-zero goal by five years to 2045. AEP’s total Scope 1 GHG emissions in 2022
were approximately 52.5 million metric tons COe, approximately a 65% reduction from AEP’s 2005 Scope 1 GHG
emissions (inclusive of emission reductions that result from plants that have been sold). AEP has made significant
progress in reducing CO emissions from its power generation fleet and expects its emissions to continue to decline.
Technological advances, including energy storage, will determine how quickly AEP can achieve zero emissions while
continuing to provide reliable, affordable power for customers.
Excessive costs to comply with future legislation or regulations have led to the announcement of early plant closures
and could force AEP to close additional coal-fired generation facilities earlier than their estimated useful life. If AEP is
unable to recover the costs of its investments, it would reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial
condition.
Coal Combustion Residual (CCR) Rule
The Federal EPA’s CCR rule regulates the disposal and beneficial re-use of CCR, including fly ash and bottom ash
created from coal-fired generating units and FGD gypsum generated at some coal-fired plants.  The rule applies to
active and inactive CCR landfills and surface impoundments at facilities of active electric utility or independent power
producers.
In 2020, the Federal EPA revised the CCR rule to include a requirement that unlined CCR storage ponds cease
operations and initiate closure by April 11, 2021. The revised rule provides two options that allow facilities to extend
the date by which they must cease receipt of coal ash and close the ponds.2
2 2
2
2
2
78
The first option provides an extension to cease receipt of CCR no later than October 15, 2023 for most units, and
October 15, 2024 for a narrow subset of units; however, the Federal EPA’s grant of such an extension will be based
upon a satisfactory demonstration of the need for additional time to develop alternative ash disposal capacity and will
be limited to the soonest timeframe technically feasible to cease receipt of CCR. Additionally, each request must
undergo formal review, including public comments, and be approved by the Federal EPA. AEP filed applications for
additional time to develop alternative disposal capacity at the following plants:
Company Plant NameGenerating
Capacity Net Book Value (a)Projected
 Retirement Date
(in MWs) (in millions)
AEGCo Rockport Plant, Unit 1 655 $ 226.0 2028
APCo Amos 2,930 2,140.2 2040
APCo Mountaineer 1,320 980.8 2040
I&M Rockport Plant, Unit 1 655 449.2 (b) 2028
KPCo Mitchell Plant 780 576.7 2040
SWEPCo Flint Creek Plant 258 265.4 2038
WPCo Mitchell Plant 780 638.3 2040
(a) Net book value as of December 31, 2022, before cost of removal including CWIP and inventory.
(b) Amount includes a $147 million regulatory asset related to the retired Tanners Creek Plant. The IURC and MPSC
authorized recovery of the Tanners Creek Plant regulatory asset over the useful life of Rockport Plant, Unit 1 in 2015
and 2014, respectively.
In January 2022, the Federal EPA proposed to deny several extension requests filed by the other utilities based on
allegations that those utilities are not in compliance with the CCR Rule (the January Actions). In November 2022, the
Federal EPA finalized one of these denials. The Federal EPA’s allegations of noncompliance rely on new interpretations
of the CCR Rule requirements. The January Actions of the Federal EPA have been challenged in the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit as unlawful rulemaking that revises the existing CCR Rule requirements
without proper notice and without opportunity for comment. Management is unable to predict the outcome of that
litigation.
In July 2022, the Federal EPA proposed conditional approval of the pending extension request for the Mountaineer
Plant. The Federal EPA alleged that the Mountaineer Plant was not fully compliant with the CCR Rule. In December
2022, AEP withdrew the pending extension request for the Mountaineer Plant as work to construct new CCR disposal
facilities was completed and the extension was no longer needed. The Federal EPA has not yet proposed any action on
the other pending extension requests submitted by AEP. However, statements made by the Federal EPA in the context of
the proposed and final decisions on extension requests issued to date indicate that there is a risk that the Federal EPA
may conclude that AEP is not eligible for an extension of time to cease use of those CCR impoundments for which
extension requests are pending and/or that one or more of AEP’s facilities is not in compliance with the CCR Rule. If
that occurs, AEP may incur material additional costs to change its plans for complying with the CCR Rule, including
the potential to have to temporarily cease operation of one or more facilities until an acceptable compliance alternative
can be implemented. Such temporary cessation of operation could materially impact the cost of serving customers of
the affected utility. Further, actions by the Federal EPA could require AEP to remove coal ash from CCR units that have
already been closed in accordance with state law programs or could require AEP to incur costs related to CCR units at
various active and legacy facilities.
Closure and post-closure costs have been included in ARO in accordance with the requirements in the Federal EPA’s
final CCR rule. Additional ARO revisions will occur on a site-by-site basis if groundwater monitoring activities
conclude that corrective actions are required to mitigate groundwater impacts. AEP may incur significant additional
costs complying with the Federal EPA’s CCR Rule, including costs to upgrade or close and replace surface
impoundments and landfills used to manage CCR and to conduct any required remedial actions including removal of
coal ash. If additional costs are incurred and AEP is unable to obtain cost recovery, it would reduce future net income
and cash flows and impact financial condition. Management will continue to participate in rulemaking activities and
make adjustments based on new federal and state requirements affecting its ash disposal units.
79
The second option to obtain an extension of the April 11, 2021 deadline to cease operation of unlined impoundments
allows a generating facility to continue operating its existing impoundments without developing alternative CCR
disposal, provided the facility commits to cease combustion of coal by a date certain. Under this option, a generating
facility would have until October 17, 2023 to cease coal-fired operations and to close CCR storage ponds 40 acres or
less in size, or through October 17, 2028 for facilities with CCR storage ponds greater than 40 acres in size. Pursuant to
this option, AEP informed the Federal EPA of its intent to retire the Pirkey Plant and cease using coal at the Welsh
Plant. The table below summarizes the net book value of the Pirkey Plant and Welsh Plant, Units 1 and 3 as of
December 31, 2022.
Company Plant Name and UnitGenerating
CapacityNet Investment
(a)Accelerated
Depreciation
Regulatory AssetProjected
 Retirement Date
(in MWs) (in millions)
SWEPCo Pirkey Plant 580$ 35.1 $ 179.5 2023(b)
SWEPCo Welsh Plant, Units 1 & 3 1,053 416.8 85.6 2028(c)(d)
(a)Net book value as of December 31, 2022, including CWIP and excluding cost of removal and materials and supplies.
(b)In January 2023, the LPSC authorized the recovery of SWEPCo’s Louisiana share of the Pirkey Plant through a separate
rider through 2032. See Note 4 - Rate Matters for additional information. The Pirkey Plant is currently being recovered
through 2045 in the Arkansas and Texas jurisdictions.
(c)In November 2020, management announced it will cease using coal at the Welsh Plant in 2028.
(d)Unit 1 is currently being recovered through 2027 in the Louisiana jurisdiction and through 2037 in the Arkansas and Texas
jurisdictions. Unit 3 is currently being recovered through 2032 in the Louisiana jurisdiction and through 2042 in the
Arkansas and Texas jurisdictions.
To date, the Federal EPA has not taken any action on these pending extension requests. Under the second option
above, AEP may need to recover remaining depreciation and estimated closure costs associated with these plants over
a shorter period. If AEP cannot ultimately recover the costs of environmental compliance and/or the remaining
depreciation and estimated closure costs associated with these plants in a timely manner, it would reduce future net
income and cash flows and impact financial condition.
Clean Water Act Regulations
The Federal EPA’s ELG rule for generating facilities establishes limits for FGD wastewater, fly ash and bottom ash
transport water and flue gas mercury control wastewater, which are to be implemented through each facility’s
wastewater discharge permit. A revision to the ELG rule, published in October 2020, establishes additional options for
reusing and discharging small volumes of bottom ash transport water, provides an exception for retiring units and
extends the compliance deadline to a date as soon as possible beginning one year after the rule was published but no
later than December 2025. Management has assessed technology additions and retrofits to comply with the rule and the
impacts of the Federal EPA’s recent actions on facilities’ wastewater discharge permitting for FGD wastewater and
bottom ash transport water. For affected facilities that must install additional technologies to meet the ELG rule limits,
permit modifications were filed in January 2021 that reflect the outcome of that assessment. AEP continues to work
with state agencies to finalize permit terms and conditions. Other facilities opted to file Notices of Planned
Participation (NOPP), pursuant to which the facilities are not required to install additional controls to meet ELG limits
provided they make commitments to cease coal combustion by a date certain. The Federal EPA has announced its
intention to reconsider the 2020 rule and to further revise limits applicable to discharges of landfill and impoundment
leachate. A proposed rule is expected in 2023. Management cannot predict whether the Federal EPA will actually
finalize further revisions or what such revisions might be, but will continue to monitor this issue and will participate in
further rulemaking activities as they arise.
In January 2023, the Federal EPA finalized a new rule revising the definition of “waters of the United States,” which
will become effective in March 2023. The new rule expands the scope of the definition, which means that permits may
be necessary where none were previously required and issued permits may need to be reopened to impose additional
obligations. Management is evaluating what impacts the revised rule will have on operations.
80
In October 2022, the United States Supreme Court heard an appeal related to the scope of “waters of the United States,”
specifically which wetlands can be regulated as waters of the United States. Management cannot predict the outcome of
that litigation.
Impact of Environmental Regulation on Coal-Fired Generation
Compliance with extensive environmental regulations requires significant capital investment in environmental
monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, emission fees, disposal, remediation and permits. Management
continuously evaluates cost estimates of complying with these regulations which may result in a decision to retire coal-
fired generating facilities earlier than their currently estimated useful lives.
Previously, management retired or announced early closure plans for Welsh Plant, Unit 2, Dolet Hills Power Station
and Northeastern Plant, Unit 3.
The table below summarizes the net book value, as of December 31, 2022, of generating facilities retired or planned for
early retirement in advance of the retirement date currently authorized for ratemaking purposes:
Company PlantNet
Investment (a)Accelerated
Depr eciation
Regulatory AssetActual/Pr ojected
Retir ement
DateCurr ent
Authorized
Recovery
PeriodAnnual
Depr eciation (b)
(in millions) (in millions)
PSO Northeastern Plant, Unit 3 $ 136.3 $ 145.8 2026 (c) $ 14.9 
SWEPCo Dolet Hills Power Station — 54.8 2021 (d) — 
SWEPCo Pirkey Plant 35.1 179.5 2023 (e) 11.7 
SWEPCoWelsh Plant, Units 1 and
3 416.8 85.6 2028 (f) (g) 37.9 
SWEPCo Welsh Plant, Unit 2 — 35.2 2016 (h) — 
(a) Net book value including CWIP  excluding cost of removal and materials and supplies.
(b) These amounts represent the amount of annual depreciation that has been collected from customers over the prior 12-month period.
(c) Northeastern Plant, Unit 3 is currently being recovered through 2040.
(d) In January 2023, the LPSC  authorized the recovery of SWEPCo’ s Louisiana share of the Dolet Hills Power Station through a separate
rider through  2032. In May 2022, the APSC authorized recovery of SWEPCo’ s Arkansas jurisdictional share of the Dolet Hills Power
Station through 2027, but denied SWEPCo the ability to earn a return on this investment resulting in a disallowance of $2 million. In
December 2021, the PUCT  authorized the recovery of SWEPCo’ s Texas jurisdictional share of the Dole t Hills Power Station through
2046 without providing a return on the investment which resulted in a disallowance of $12 million. See Note 4 - Rate Matters for
additional information.
(e) In January 2023, the LPSC authorized the recovery of SWEPCo’ s Louisiana share of the Pirkey Plant through a separate rider through
2032. See Note 4 - Rate Matters for additional information. The Pirkey Plant is currently being recovered  through 2045 in the Arkansas
and Texas jurisdictions.
(f) In November 2020, management announced it will cease using coal at the Welsh Plant in 2028.
(g) Welsh Plant, Unit 1 is being recovered through 2027 in the Louisiana jurisdiction and through 2037 in the Arkansas and Texas
jurisdictions. Welsh Plant, Unit 3 is being recovered  through 2032 in the Louisiana jurisdiction and through 2042 in the Arkansas and
Texas jurisdictions.
(h) In January 2023, the LPSC  approved a settlement agreement which provided recovery of Welsh Plant, Unit 2 over the blended useful life
of Welsh Plant, Units 1 and 3.
Management is seeking or will seek regulatory recovery, as necessary, for any net book value remaining when the
plants are retired. To the extent the net book value of these generation assets is not deemed recoverable, it could
materially reduce future net income, cash flows and impact financial condition.
81
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
SEGMENTS
AEP’s primary business is the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity.  Within its Vertically Integrated
Utilities segment, AEP centrally dispatches generation assets and manages its overall utility operations on an integrated
basis because of the substantial impact of cost-based rates and regulatory oversight.  Intersegment sales and transfers
are generally based on underlying contractual arrangements and agreements.
AEP’s reportable segments and their related business activities are outlined below:
Vertically Integrated Utilities
•Generation, transmission and distribution of electricity for sale to retail and wholesale customers through assets
owned and operated by AEGCo, APCo, I&M, KGPCo, KPCo, PSO, SWEPCo and WPCo.
Transmission and Distribution Utilities
•Transmission and distribution of electricity for sale to retail and wholesale customers through assets owned and
operated by AEP Texas and OPCo.
•OPCo purchases energy and capacity at auction to serve standard service offer customers and provides
transmission and distribution services for all connected load.
AEP Transmission Holdco
•Development, construction and operation of transmission facilities through investments in AEPTCo. These
investments have FERC-approved ROE.
•Development, construction and operation of transmission facilities through investments in AEP’s transmission-
only joint ventures. These investments have PUCT-approved or FERC-approved ROE.
Generation & Marketing
•Contracted renewable energy investments and management services.
•Marketing, risk management and retail activities in ERCOT, MISO, PJM and SPP.
•Competitive generation in PJM.
The remainder of AEP’s activities are presented as Corporate and Other. While not considered a reportable segment,
Corporate and Other primarily includes the purchasing of receivables from certain AEP utility subsidiaries, Parent’s
guarantee revenue received from affiliates, investment income, interest income and interest expense and other
nonallocated costs.
The following discussion of AEP’s results of operations by operating segment includes an analysis of Gross Margin,
which is a non-GAAP financial measure. Gross Margin includes Total Revenues less the costs of Fuel and Other
Consumables Used for Electric Generation, as well as Purchased Electricity for Resale, as presented in the Registrants’
statements of income as applicable. Under the various state utility rate making processes, these expenses are generally
reimbursable directly from and billed to customers. As a result, they do not typically impact Operating Income or
Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders. Management believes that Gross Margin provides a useful
measure for investors and other financial statement users to analyze AEP’s financial performance in that it excludes the
effect on Total Revenues caused by volatility in these expenses. Operating Income, which is presented in accordance
with GAAP in AEP’s statements of income, is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure to the
presentation of Gross Margin. AEP’s definition of Gross Margin may not be directly comparable to similarly titled
financial measures used by other companies.
82
A detailed discussion of AEP’s 2021 results of operations by operating segment can be found in Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation section included in the 2021 Annual Report
on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 24, 2022.
The following table presents Earnings (Loss) Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders by segment:
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Vertically Integrated Utilities $ 1,292.0 $ 1,113.6 $ 1,061.6 
Transmission and Distribution Utilities 595.7 543.4 496.4 
AEP Transmission Holdco 673.5 677.8 504.8 
Generation & Marketing 283.6 217.5 226.9 
Corporate and Other (537.6) (64.2) (89.6)
Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders $ 2,307.2 $ 2,488.1 $ 2,200.1 
Note: 2022 Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders by Segment excludes Corporate and Other which is
not considered a reportable segment.
AEP CONSOLIDATED
2022 Compared to 2021
Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders decreased from $2.5 billion in 2021 to $2.3 billion in 2022.
AEP’s Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders in 2022 were positively impacted by favorable rate
proceedings in various jurisdictions, higher earnings driven by continued transmission investment and increased sales
volumes driven by favorable weather and load. In June 2022, AEP also recognized a gain on the sale of mineral rights
which contributed to AEP’s Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders.
The favorable items discussed above were more than offset by a loss on the expected sale of the Kentucky Operations,
an impairment of AEP’s equity investment in Flat Ridge 2, increases in interest expense due to higher interest rates and
debt balances and a charitable contribution to the AEP Foundation.
AEP’s results of operations by reportable segment are discussed below.
83
VERTICALLY INTEGRATED UTILITIES
 
(a) Other AEP Segments excludes Corporate and Other which is not considered a reportable segment.
Years Ended December 31,
Vertically Integrated Utilities 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Revenues $ 11,477.5 $ 9,998.5 $ 8,879.4 
Fuel and Purchased Electricity 4,007.9 3,144.2 2,544.9 
Gross Margin 7,469.6 6,854.3 6,334.5 
Other Operation and Maintenance 3,287.2 3,043.1 2,754.3 
Asset Impairments and Other Related Charges 24.9 11.6 — 
Establishment of 2017-2019 Virginia Triennial Review Regulatory
Asset (37.0) — — 
Depreciation and Amortization 2,007.2 1,747.6 1,600.5 
Taxes Other Than Income Taxes 504.9 497.3 472.6 
Operating Income 1,682.4 1,554.7 1,507.1 
Other Income 30.2 13.5 2.4 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction 29.5 40.2 42.2 
Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost 109.8 67.9 67.9 
Interest Expense (650.9) (574.2) (565.0)
Income Before Income Tax Benefit and Equity Earnings 1,201.0 1,102.1 1,054.6 
Income Tax Benefit (93.8) (11.2) (7.0)
Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiary 1.4 3.4 2.9 
Net Income 1,296.2 1,116.7 1,064.5 
Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 4.2 3.1 2.9 
Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders $ 1,292.0 $ 1,113.6 $ 1,061.6 
84
Summary of KWh Energy Sales for Vertically Integrated Utilities
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions of KWhs)
Retail:
Residential 32,835 32,149 31,526 
Commercial 23,770 22,833 22,225 
Industrial 34,532 33,181 32,860 
Miscellaneous 2,316 2,214 2,185 
Total Retail 93,453 90,377 88,796 
Wholesale (a) 16,099 19,025 16,987 
Total KWhs 109,552 109,402 105,783 
(a) Includes Off-system Sales, municipalities and cooperatives, unit power and other wholesale customers.
85
Heating degree days and cooling degree days are metrics commonly used in the utility industry as a measure of the
impact of weather on revenues.  In general, degree day changes in the eastern region have a larger effect on revenues
than changes in the western region due to the relative size of the two regions and the number of customers within each
region.
Summary of Heating and Cooling Degree Days for Vertically Integrated Utilities
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in degree days)
Eastern Region
Actual – Heating (a) 2,709 2,438 2,295 
Normal – Heating (b) 2,717 2,720 2,727 
Actual – Cooling (c) 1,187 1,268 1,222 
Normal – Cooling (b) 1,106 1,110 1,104 
Western Region
Actual – Heating (a) 1,523 1,241 1,160 
Normal – Heating (b) 1,455 1,461 1,464 
Actual – Cooling (c) 2,695 2,370 2,117 
Normal – Cooling (b) 2,247 2,246 2,253 
(a) Heating degree days are calculated on a 55 degree temperature base.
(b) Normal Heating/Cooling represents the thirty-year average of degree days.
(c) Cooling degree days are calculated on a 65 degree temperature base.
86
2022 Compared to 2021
Reconciliation of Year Ended December 31, 2021 to Year Ended December 31, 2022
Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders from Vertically Integrated Utilities
(in millions)
Year Ended December 31, 2021 $ 1,113.6 
Changes in Gross Margin:
Retail Margins 492.6 
Margins from Off-system Sales 9.6 
Transmission Revenues 81.9 
Other Revenues 31.2 
Total Change in Gross Margin 615.3 
Changes in Expenses and Other:
Other Operation and Maintenance (244.1)
Asset Impairments and Other Related Charges (13.3)
Establishment of 2017-2019 Virginia Triennial Review Regulatory Asset 37.0 
Depreciation and Amortization (259.6)
Taxes Other Than Income Taxes (7.6)
Other Income 16.7 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction (10.7)
Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Pension Cost 41.9 
Interest Expense (76.7)
Total Change in Expenses and Other (516.4)
Income Tax Benefit 82.6 
Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiary (2.0)
Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests (1.1)
Year Ended December 31, 2022 $ 1,292.0 
The major components of the increase in Gross Margin, defined as revenues less the related direct cost of fuel,
including consumption of chemicals and emissions allowances, and purchased electricity were as follows:
•Retail Margins increased $493 million primarily due to the following:
•A $127 million increase at APCo and WPCo due to an increase in rider revenues in Virginia and West Virginia.
This increase was partially offset in other expense items below.
•A $110 million increase at PSO due to a $61 million increase in base rate revenues and a $49 million increase
in rider revenues. These increases were partially offset in other expense items below.
•A $102 million increase at SWEPCo primarily due to base rate revenue increases in Texas and Arkansas and
rider increases in all retail jurisdictions. These increases were partially offset in other expense items below.
•An $87 million increase in rider revenues at I&M partially offset by lower wholesale true-ups. This increase
was partially offset in other expense items below.
•A $69 million increase in weather-related usage primarily in the residential class.
•A $30 million increase in weather-normalized retail margins primarily in the commercial class.
•A $17 million increase at APCo due to a base rate increase in Virginia implemented in October 2022 following
the Virginia Supreme Court remand. This increase was partially offset in Other Operation and Maintenance
expense below.
87
These increases were partially offset by:
•A $73 million decrease at PSO and SWEPCo due to the NCWF PTC benefits provided to customers through
fuel clause mechanisms. This decrease was partially offset in Income Tax Benefit below.
•A $6 million decrease in municipal and cooperative revenues at SWEPCo primarily due to the February 2021
severe winter weather event.
•Margins from Off-system Sales increased $10 million primarily due to the following:
•A $32 million increase at I&M primarily due to Rockport Plant, Unit 2 Merchant sales beginning in December
2022 in addition to higher market prices driven by winter storm Elliott.
These increases were partially offset by:
•An $11 million decrease at SWEPCo due to a decrease in Turk Plant merchant sales primarily driven by the
February 2021 severe winter weather event.
•A $9 million decrease at KPCo due to a change in the OSS sharing arrangement.
•A $4 million decrease at APCo due to decreased generation.
•Transmission Revenues increased $82 million primarily due to the following:
•A $61 million increase due to continued investment in transmission assets and increased load.
•A $16 million increase in formula rate true-up activity.
•Other Revenues increased $31 million primarily due to the following:
•A $12 million increase due to pole attachment revenue primarily at APCo. This increase was partially offset in
Other Operation and Maintenance Expense below.
•A $10 million increase due to business development revenue primarily at APCo. This increase was partially
offset in Other Operation and Maintenance Expense below.
•A $4 million increase due to a gain on sale of allowances primarily at I&M. The gain on sale of allowances
was partially offset in Retail Margins above.
•A $4 million increase at I&M due to an increase in barging revenues by River Transportation Division (RTD).
The increase in barging revenues was partially offset in Other Operation and Maintenance expenses below.
Expenses and Other and Income Tax Benefit changed between years as follows:
•Other Operation and Maintenance expenses increased $244 million primarily due to the following:
•A $131 million increase in PJM transmission services. This increase was partially offset in Retail Margins
above.
•A $69 million increase in generation expenses primarily due to outages and maintenance at APCo, I&M and
PSO.
•A $40 million increase due to a charitable contribution to the AEP Foundation.
•A $29 million increase in storm restoration expenses.
•A $25 million increase in distribution expenses primarily related to vegetation management, pole inspections
and distribution overhead costs.
•A $22 million increase in SPP transmission services. This increase was partially offset in Retail Margins
above.
•A $17 million increase in Energy Efficiency/Demand Response expenses. This increase was offset in Retail
Margins above.
•A $14 million increase in accounts receivable factoring expenses as a result of increased interest rates.
These increases were partially offset by:
•A $132 million decrease due to the modification of the Rockport Plant, Unit 2 lease which resulted in a change
in lease classification from an operating lease to a finance lease in December 2021 at AEGCo and I&M. This
decrease was offset in Depreciation and Amortization expense below.
•Asset Impairments and Other Related Charges increased $13 million primarily due to:
•A $25 million increase at APCo due to the write-off of a regulatory asset in accordance with the August 2022
Virginia Supreme Court opinion related to the 2017-2019 Virginia Triennial review.
This increase was partially offset by:
•A $12 million decrease due to a partial regulatory disallowance of SWEPCo’s investment in the Dolet Hills
Power Station as a result of an order received in the 2020 Texas Base Rate Case.
88
•Establishment of 2017-2019 Virginia Triennial Review Regulatory Asset increased $37 million at APCo due to
the establishment of a regulatory asset in accordance with the August 2022 Virginia Supreme Court opinion and
resulting from under-earning during the 2017-2019 Triennial Review.
•Depreciation and Amortization expenses increased $260 million primarily due to the following:
•A $132 million increase due to the modification of the Rockport Plant, Unit 2 lease which resulted in a change
in lease classification from an operating lease to a finance lease in December 2021 at AEGCo and I&M. This
increase was partially offset in Other Operation and Maintenance expenses above.
•A $128 million increase due to a higher depreciable base primarily at APCo, I&M, PSO and SWEPCo, the
implementation of new rates and the timing of refunds to customers under rate rider mechanisms at PSO and
in Arkansas and Texas for SWEPCo. The increase due to implementation of new rates and the timing of
refunds to customers under rate rider mechanisms at PSO was partially offset in Retail Margins above.
•Taxes Other Than Income Taxes increased $8 million primarily due to the following:
•A $17 million increase at PSO and SWEPCo primarily due to increased property taxes and a new
infrastructure fee at PSO implemented by the City of Tulsa in March 2022. This increase was partially offset
in Retail Margins above.
•A $4 million increase at APCo primarily due to an increase in property taxes driven by additional investments
in transmission and distribution assets and higher tax rates.
These increases were partially offset by:
•A $14 million decrease at I&M primarily due to the repeal of the Indiana Utility Receipts Tax in July 2022.
This decrease was partially offset in Retail Margins above.
•Other Income increased $17 million primarily due to carrying charges on regulatory assets resulting from the
February 2021 severe winter weather event at PSO and SWEPCo.
•Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction decreased $11 million primarily due to a lower
AFUDC base at APCo and SWEPCo and a decrease in AFUDC equity rates primarily at APCo and I&M.
•Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost decreased $42 million primarily due to an increase
in discount rates, an increase in the expected return on plan assets and favorable plan returns in 2021.
•Interest Expense increased $77 million primarily due to higher long-term debt balances at APCo, PSO and
SWEPCo, higher interest rates at APCo and increased Advances from Affiliates at PSO and SWEPCo.
•Income Tax Benefit increased $83 million primarily due to the following:
•A $92 million increase in PTCs related to enacted legislation under the IRA and additional capital investment
in tax-credit eligible property. This increase was partially offset in Retail Margins above.
•A $16 million increase due to favorable tax return to provision adjustments recorded in the current year.
•A $15 million increase due to a decrease in flow through depreciation expense.
•A $7 million increase due to an unfavorable out of period adjustment recorded in the prior year related to
deferred income taxes.
These increases were partially offset by:
•A $21 million decrease due to an increase in pretax book income.
•A $19 million decrease due to a decrease in amortization of Excess ADIT. The decrease in amortization of
Excess ADIT was partially offset in Gross Margin above.
89
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION UTILITIES
 
(a) Other AEP Segments excludes Corporate and Other which is not considered a reportable segment.
Years Ended December 31,
Transmission and Distribution Utilities 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Revenues $ 5,512.0 $ 4,492.9 $ 4,345.9 
Purchased Electricity 1,287.3 729.9 682.7 
Gross Margin 4,224.7 3,763.0 3,663.2 
Other Operation and Maintenance 1,864.2 1,573.9 1,575.4 
Depreciation and Amortization 746.7 690.3 751.1 
Taxes Other Than Income Taxes 659.9 640.9 586.7 
Operating Income 953.9 857.9 750.0 
Other Income 4.9 2.6 4.0 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction 33.6 32.3 31.9 
Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost 47.6 29.0 29.4 
Interest Expense (328.0) (300.9) (289.2)
Income Before Income Tax Expense and Equity Earnings 712.0 620.9 526.1 
Income Tax Expense 116.9 77.5 29.7 
Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiary 0.6 — — 
Net Income 595.7 543.4 496.4 
Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests — — — 
Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders $ 595.7 $ 543.4 $ 496.4 
90
Summary of KWh Energy Sales for Transmission and Distribution Utilities
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions of KWhs)
Retail:
Residential 27,479 26,830 26,518 
Commercial 27,448 25,514 23,998 
Industrial 25,435 23,919 22,432 
Miscellaneous 753 737 749 
Total Retail (a) 81,115 77,000 73,697 
Wholesale (b) 2,198 2,018 1,859 
Total KWhs 83,313 79,018 75,556 
(a) Represents energy delivered to distribution customers.
(b) Primarily Ohio’s contractually obligated purchases of OVEC power sold into PJM.
91
Heating degree days and cooling degree days are metrics commonly used in the utility industry as a measure of the
impact of weather on revenues.  In general, degree day changes in the eastern region have a larger effect on revenues
than changes in the western region due to the relative size of the two regions and the number of customers within each
region.
Summary of Heating and Cooling Degree Days for Transmission and Distribution Utilities
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in degree days)
Eastern Region
Actual – Heating (a) 3,116 2,815 2,743 
Normal – Heating (b) 3,185 3,190 3,202 
Actual – Cooling (c) 1,121 1,222 1,140 
Normal – Cooling (b) 1,011 1,016 1,006 
Western Region
Actual – Heating (a) 450 341 189 
Normal – Heating (b) 312 310 313 
Actual – Cooling (d) 2,984 2,653 2,846 
Normal – Cooling (b) 2,714 2,712 2,711 
(a)Heating degree days are calculated on a 55 degree temperature base.
(b)Normal Heating/Cooling represents the thirty-year average of degree days.
(c)Eastern Region cooling degree days are calculated on a 65 degree temperature base.
(d)Western Region cooling degree days are calculated on a 70 degree temperature base.
92
2022 Compared to 2021
 
Reconciliation of Year Ended December 31, 2021 to Year Ended December 31, 2022
Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders from Transmission and Distribution Utilities
(in millions)
Year Ended December 31, 2021 $ 543.4 
Changes in Gross Margin:
Retail Margins 362.3 
Margins from Off-system Sales 61.9 
Transmission Revenues 72.6 
Other Revenues (35.1)
Total Change in Gross Margin 461.7 
Changes in Expenses and Other:
Other Operation and Maintenance (290.3)
Depreciation and Amortization (56.4)
Taxes Other Than Income Taxes (19.0)
Other Income 2.3 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction 1.3 
Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost 18.6 
Interest Expense (27.1)
Total Change in Expenses and Other (370.6)
Income Tax Expense (39.4)
Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries 0.6 
Year Ended December 31, 2022 $ 595.7 
The major components of the increase in Gross Margin, defined as revenues less the related direct cost of purchased
electricity were as follows:
•Retail Margins increased $362 million primarily due to the following:
•A $111 million increase in Basic Transmission Cost Rider revenues and recoverable PJM expenses in Ohio.
This increase was partially offset in Other Operation and Maintenance expenses below.
•A $105 million increase due to interim rate increases driven by increased distribution and transmission
investment in Texas.
•A $42 million increase due to various rider revenues in Ohio. This increase was partially offset in Margins
from Off-system Sales, Other Revenues and other expense items below.
•A $30 million increase due to prior year refunds of Excess ADIT to customers in Texas. This increase was
partially offset in Income Tax Expense below.
•A $23 million increase in weather-related usage in Texas primarily due to a 12% increase in cooling degree
days and a 32% increase in heating degree days.
•A $19 million increase in revenue from rate riders in Texas. This increase was partially offset in other expense
items below.
•An $18 million increase in weather-normalized margins primarily in the commercial and industrial classes,
partially offset by the residential class.
•A $10 million increase in weather-related usage in Ohio primarily due to the end of decoupling.
93
•Margins from Off-system Sales increased $62 million primarily due to the following:
•A $52 million increase in off-system sales at OVEC due to higher market prices and volume, partially offset
by an increase in PJM expenses driven by winter storm Elliott. This increase was offset in Retail Margins
above and Other Revenues below.
•A $10 million increase in deferrals of OVEC costs. This increase was offset in Retail Margins above and Other
Revenues below.
•Transmission Revenues increased $73 million primarily due to the following:
•A $65 million increase due to interim rate increases driven by increased transmission investment.
•A $7 million increase due to prior year refunds to customers in Texas associated with the last base rate case.
This increase was offset in Other Revenues below.
•Other Revenues decreased $35 million primarily due to the following:
•A $38 million decrease in Ohio primarily due to third-party Legacy Generation Resource Rider revenue
related to the recovery of OVEC costs. This decrease was offset in Retail Margins and Margins from Off-
system Sales above.
•A $12 million decrease in Texas due to the prior year amortization of a provision for refund recorded
associated with the last base rate case. This decrease was offset in Retail Margins and Transmission Revenues
above.
•A $7 million decrease in energy efficiency revenues in Texas.
These decreases were partially offset by:
•A $26 million increase in securitization revenues primarily due to the AEP Texas Central Transition Funding II
LLC bonds that matured in July 2020 and final refunds that were completed in 2021. This increase was offset
in Depreciation and Amortization expenses and Interest Expense below.
Expenses and Other and Income Tax Expense changed between years as follows:
•Other Operation and Maintenance expenses increased $290 million primarily due to the following:
•An $87 million increase in transmission expenses in Ohio primarily due to the following:
•An $88 million increase in recoverable PJM expenses. This increase was offset in Retail Margins above.
•A $3 million increase in transmission vegetation management expenses.
These increases were partially offset by:
•A $6 million decrease in transmission formula rate true-up activity.
•A $76 million increase in ERCOT transmission expenses. This increase was partially offset in Retail Margins
and Transmission Revenues above.
•A $21 million increase in bad debt related expenses in Ohio, including $8 million in 2022 related to Bad Debt
Rider over-recovery. This increase was offset in Retail Margins above.
•A $19 million increase in remitted Universal Service Fund surcharge payments to the Ohio Department of
Development to fund an energy assistance program for qualified Ohio customers. This increase was offset in
Retail Margins above.
•An $18 million increase due to a charitable contribution to the AEP Foundation.
•A $17 million increase in recoverable distribution expenses in Ohio primarily related to vegetation
management. This increase was offset in Retail Margins above.
•A $17 million increase in employee-related expenses.
•An $11 million increase in distribution-related expenses in Texas.
•Depreciation and Amortization expenses increased $56 million primarily due to the following:
•A $29 million increase due to a higher depreciable base in Texas.
•A $27 million increase in securitization amortizations in Texas primarily related to the AEP Texas Central
Transition Funding II LLC bonds that matured in July 2020 and final refunds that were completed in 2021.
This increase was offset in Other Revenues above.
•A $7 million increase in recoverable advanced metering system depreciable expenses in Texas.
These increases were partially offset by:
•A $9 million decrease in recoverable smart grid and Distribution Investment Rider depreciable expenses in
Ohio. This decrease was offset in Retail Margins above.
94
•Taxes Other Than Income Taxes increased $19 million primarily due to an increase in Ohio in property taxes
driven by additional investments in transmission and distribution assets and higher tax rates.
•Non-Service Cost Components of Net Period Benefit Cost decreased $19 million primarily due to an increase
in discount rates, an increase in the expected return on plan assets and favorable plan returns in 2021.
•Interest Expense increased $27 million primarily due to the following:
•A $32 million increase in Texas primarily due to higher long-term debt balances and higher interest rates.
This increase was partially offset by:
•A $5 million decrease in Ohio primarily due to the retirement of a higher rate bond, partially offset by the
issuance of a lower rate bond in 2021.
•Income Tax Expense increased $39 million primarily due to the following:
•A $21 million decrease in amortization of Excess ADIT. This decrease was partially offset in Gross Margin
above.
•A $19 million increase due to an increase in pretax book income.
•A $4 million increase due to a current year change in the accounting policy for the parent company loss
benefit.
These increases were partially offset by:
•A $9 million decrease due to an unfavorable out of period adjustment recorded in the prior year related to
deferred income taxes.
95
AEP TRANSMISSION HOLDCO
 
(a) Other AEP Segments excludes Corporate and Other which is not considered a reportable segment.
Years Ended December 31,
AEP Transmission Holdco 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Transmission Revenues $ 1,677.0 $ 1,526.2 $ 1,198.8 
Other Operation and Maintenance 165.7 132.3 119.0 
Depreciation and Amortization 355.0 306.0 257.6 
Taxes Other Than Income Taxes 277.6 245.0 211.0 
Operating Income 878.7 842.9 611.2 
Interest and Investment Income 2.0 0.7 2.9 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction 70.6 67.2 74.0 
Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost 5.0 2.1 2.0 
Interest Expense (169.3) (146.3) (133.2)
Income Before Income Tax Expense and Equity Earnings 787.0 766.6 556.9 
Income Tax Expense 193.6 159.6 130.8 
Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiary 83.4 75.0 82.4 
Net Income 676.8 682.0 508.5 
Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 3.3 4.2 3.7 
Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders $ 673.5 $ 677.8 $ 504.8 
96
Summary of Investment in Transmission Assets for AEP Transmission Holdco
December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Plant in Service $ 13,040.2 $ 11,718.0 $ 10,327.5 
Construction Work in Progress 1,659.9 1,495.0 1,499.7 
Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization 1,047.6 801.8 595.7 
Total Transmission Property, Net $ 13,652.5 $ 12,411.2 $ 11,231.5 
97
2022 Compared to 2021
 
Reconciliation of Year Ended December 31, 2021 to Year Ended December 31, 2022
Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders from AEP Transmission Holdco
(in millions)
Year Ended December 31, 2021 $ 677.8 
Changes in Transmission Revenues:
Transmission Revenues 150.8 
Total Change in Transmission Revenues 150.8 
Changes in Expenses and Other:
Other Operation and Maintenance (33.4)
Depreciation and Amortization (49.0)
Taxes Other Than Income Taxes (32.6)
Interest and Investment Income 1.3 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction 3.4 
Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Pension Cost 2.9 
Interest Expense (23.0)
Total Change in Expenses and Other (130.4)
Income Tax Expense (34.0)
Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiary 8.4 
Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 0.9 
Year Ended December 31, 2022 $ 673.5 
The major components of the increase in transmission revenues, which consists of wholesale sales to affiliates and
nonaffiliates were as follows:
•Transmission Revenues increased $151 million primarily due to the following:
•A $180 million increase due to continued investment in transmission assets.
This increase was partially offset by:
•A $14 million decrease due to affiliated transmission formula rate true-up activity. This decrease was offset in
Other Operation and Maintenance expense across the other Registrant Subsidiaries.
•A $5 million decrease due to nonaffiliated transmission formula rate true-up activity.
Expenses and Other, Income Tax Expense and Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiary changed between years as
follows:
•Other Operation and Maintenance expenses increased $33 million primarily due to the following:
•A $12 million increase in employee-related expenses.
•An $11 million increase due to a charitable contribution to the AEP Foundation.
•A $5 million increase due to cancelled capital projects.
•Depreciation and Amortization expenses increased $49 million primarily due to a higher depreciable base.
•Taxes Other Than Income Taxes increased $33 million primarily due to higher property taxes as a result of
increased transmission investment.
•Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction increased $3 million primarily due to higher CWIP.
•Interest Expense increased $23 million primarily due to higher long-term debt balances.
•Income Tax Expense increased $34 million primarily due to the following:
•A $21 million increase due to a current year change in the accounting policy for the parent company loss
benefit.
•A $7 million increase due to an increase in pretax book income.
•Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiary increased $8 million primarily due to higher pretax equity
earnings for ETT and PATH-WV, partially offset by lower pretax equity earnings for Pioneer.
98
GENERATION & MARKETING
 
(a) Other AEP Segments excludes Corporate and Other which is not considered a reportable segment.
Years Ended December 31,
Generation & Marketing 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Revenues $ 2,466.9 $ 2,163.7 $ 1,725.6 
Fuel, Purchased Electricity and Other 1,984.3 1,806.8 1,403.6 
Gross Margin 482.6 356.9 322.0 
Other Operation and Maintenance 118.7 97.5 124.9 
Gain on Sale of Mineral Rights (116.3) — — 
Depreciation and Amortization 93.0 80.9 72.8 
Taxes Other Than Income Taxes 11.1 10.5 13.2 
Operating Income 376.1 168.0 111.1 
Interest and Investment Income 38.9 4.2 3.2 
Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost 20.6 15.4 15.4 
Interest Expense (51.8) (15.6) (24.0)
Income Before Income Tax Benefit and Equity Earnings (Loss) 383.8 172.0 105.7 
Income Tax Benefit (83.1) (48.8) (108.0)
Equity Earnings (Loss) of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries (192.4) (10.6) 3.2 
Net Income 274.5 210.2 216.9 
Net Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests (9.1) (7.3) (10.0)
Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders $ 283.6 $ 217.5 $ 226.9 
99
Summary of MWhs Generated for Generation & Marketing
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions of MWhs)
Fuel Type:
Coal 4 3 4 
Renewables 4 4 3 
Total MWhs 8 7 7 
100
2022 Compared to 2021
 
Reconciliation of Year Ended December 31, 2021 to Year Ended December 31, 2022
Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders from Generation & Marketing
(in millions)
Year Ended December 31, 2021 $ 217.5 
Changes in Gross Margin:
Merchant Generation 31.6 
Renewable Generation 38.7 
Retail, Trading and Marketing 55.4 
Total Change in Gross Margin 125.7 
Changes in Expenses and Other:
Other Operation and Maintenance (21.2)
Gain on Sale of Mineral Rights 116.3 
Depreciation and Amortization (12.1)
Taxes Other Than Income Taxes (0.6)
Interest and Investment Income 34.7 
Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost 5.2 
Interest Expense (36.2)
Total Change in Expenses and Other 86.1 
Income Tax Benefit 34.3 
Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries (181.8)
Net Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 1.8 
Year Ended December 31, 2022 $ 283.6 
The major components of the increase in Gross Margin, defined as revenues less the related direct cost of fuel,
including consumption of chemicals and emissions allowances, purchased electricity and certain cost-of-service for
retail operations were as follows:
•Merchant Generation increased $32 million primarily due to higher market prices.
•Renewable Generation increased $39 million primarily due to higher market prices at Texas wind facilities and
new solar projects placed in service.
•Retail, Trading and Marketing increased $55 million primarily due to higher retail power and gas margins.
Expenses and Other, Income Tax Benefit and Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries changed between years
as follows:
•Other Operation and Maintenance expenses increased $21 million primarily due to the following:
•A $39 million increase due to the sale of Racine Hydro in 2021.
•A $14 million increase due to newly placed in service renewable projects in 2022.
These increases were partially offset by:
•A $33 million decrease due to higher land sales and sale of renewable development projects in 2022.
•Gain on Sale of Mineral Rights increased $116 million due to the current year sale of mineral rights.
•Depreciation and Amortization expenses increased $12 million primarily due to a higher depreciable base from
increased investments in renewable energy assets.
•Interest and Investment Income increased $35 million primarily due to an increase in advances to affiliates and
higher interest rates in 2022.
•Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost decreased $5 million primarily due to an increase
in discount rates, an increase in the expected return on plan assets and favorable plan returns in 2021.
101
•Interest Expense increased $36 million primarily due to higher interest rates in 2022.
•Income Tax Benefit increased $34 million primarily due to the following:
•A $22 million increase due to a change in state apportionment impacting deferred state taxes.
•A $14 million increase due to an unfavorable out of period adjustment recorded in the prior year related to
deferred income taxes.
•A $10 million increase due to a decrease in state taxes.
•A $7 million increase due to an increase in PTCs related to enacted legislation under the IRA and additional
capital investment in tax-credit eligible property.
These increases were partially offset by:
•A $10 million decrease due to a current year change in the accounting policy for the parent company loss
benefit.
•An $8 million decrease due to an increase in pretax book income.
•Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries decreased $182 million primarily due to the impairment of
AEP’s investment in Flat Ridge 2 Wind LLC.
102
CORPORATE AND OTHER
2022 Compared to 2021
Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders from Corporate and Other decreased from a loss of $64 million in
2021 to a loss of $538 million in 2022 primarily due to:
•A $363 million pretax loss related to the anticipated sale of Kentucky operations.
•A $128 million increase in interest expense due to higher interest rates on short-term debt, an increase in
advances from affiliates and an increase in long-term debt outstanding.
•A $42 million decrease at EIS, primarily due to lower returns on investments and an increase in reserves.
•A $26 million decrease in equity earnings.
•A $24 million decrease due to asset impairments and other related charges.
•An $18 million decrease due to unfavorable changes in gains and losses from AEP’s investment in
ChargePoint. As of August 2022, AEP no longer has a direct investment in ChargePoint.
These items were partially offset by:
•A $60 million increase in interest income, primarily due to higher interest income from affiliates.
•A $67 million decrease in Income Tax Expense primarily due to the following:
•A $66 million decrease due to a loss on the anticipated sale of Kentucky operations.
•A $40 million decrease due to a current year change in the accounting policy for the parent company loss
benefit.
•A $38 million decrease due to a change in pretax book income.
These items were partially offset by:
•A $79 million increase due to an out of period adjustment related to deferred taxes in 2021.
AEP SYSTEM INCOME TAXES
2022 Compared to 2021
•Income Tax Expense decreased $110 million primarily due to the following:
•An $88 million increase in tax credits primarily due to an increase in PTCs related to enacted legislation under
the IRA and additional capital investment in tax-credit eligible property.
•A $61 million decrease due to a decrease in pretax book income.
•A $42 million decrease due to a change in state apportionment and statutory rates related to deferred taxes.
•A $17 million decrease in state income taxes primarily due to state return to provision adjustments.
These decreases were partially offset by:
•A $55 million increase due to an out of period adjustment recorded in 2021 related to deferred taxes.
•A $41 million decrease in the amortization of Excess ADIT.
103
FINANCIAL CONDITION
AEP measures financial condition by the strength of its balance sheet and the liquidity provided by its cash flows.
SIGNIFICANT CASH REQUIREMENTS
AEP’s contractual cash obligations include amounts reported on the balance sheets and other obligations disclosed in
the footnotes. It is anticipated that these obligations will be satisfied through a combination of cash flows from
operations, long-term debt issuances, short-term debt through AEP’s Commercial Paper Program or bank term loans,
proceeds from the Kentucky operations sale, proceeds from the sale of competitive contracted renewables and the use
of the ATM Program or other equity issuances.
Capital Expenditures
Continued capital investments reflect AEP’s commitment to enhance service and deliver reliable, clean energy and
advanced technologies that exceed customer expectations. See “Budgeted Capital Expenditures” herein, for additional
information.
Long-term Debt
Long-term debt maturities, including interest, represent a significant cash requirement for AEP and the Registrant
Subsidiaries. See Note 14 - Financing Activities for additional information relating to the Registrant Subsidiaries’ long-
term debt outstanding as of December 31, 2022, the weighted-average interest rate applicable to each debt category and
a schedule of debt maturities over the next five years.
Other Significant Cash Requirements
Operating and finance leases represent a significant component of funding requirements for AEP and the Registrant
Subsidiaries. See Note 13 - Leases for additional information.
The AEP System has substantial commitments for fuel, energy and capacity contracts as part of the normal course of
business. See Note 6 - Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies for additional information.
As of December 31, 2022, AEP expected to make contributions to the pension plans totaling $6 million in 2023. Based
upon the projected benefit obligation and fair value of assets available to pay pension benefits, the pension plans were
101% funded as of December 31, 2022. See “Estimated Future Benefit Payments and Contributions” section of Note 8
for additional information.
Standby letters of credit are entered into with third-parties. These letters of credit are issued in the ordinary course of
business and cover items such as natural gas and electricity risk management contracts, construction contracts,
insurance programs, security deposits and debt security reserves. There is no collateral held in relation to any
guarantees in excess of the ownership percentages. In the event any letters of credit are drawn, there is no recourse to
third-parties. See “Letters of Credit” section of Note 6 for additional information.
104
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Debt and Equity Capitalization
December 31,
2022 2021
(dollars in millions)
Long-term Debt, including amounts due within one year
(a) $35,622.6 55.8 %$33,454.5 57.0 %
Short-term Debt 4,112.2 6.4 2,614.0 4.4 
Total Debt 39,734.8 62.2 36,068.5 61.4 
AEP Common Equity 23,893.4 37.4 22,433.2 38.2 
Noncontrolling Interests 229.0 0.4 247.0 0.4 
Total Debt and Equity Capitalization $63,857.2 100.0 %$58,748.7 100.0 %
(a)    Amount excludes $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion of Total Long-term Debt Outstanding classified as Liabilities Held for Sale on
the balance sheet as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note
7 for additional information.
AEP’s ratio of debt-to-total capital increased from 61.4% to 62.2% as of December 31, 2021 and 2022, respectively,
primarily due to an increase in debt to support distribution, transmission and renewable investment growth in addition
to working capital needs due to an increase in deferred fuel costs.
Liquidity
Liquidity, or access to cash, is an important factor in determining AEP’s financial stability.  Management believes AEP
has adequate liquidity under its existing credit facilities. As of December 31, 2022, AEP had $5 billion in revolving
credit facilities to support its commercial paper program. Additional liquidity is available from cash from operations
and a receivables securitization agreement.  Management is committed to maintaining adequate liquidity.  AEP
generally uses short-term borrowings to fund working capital needs, property acquisitions and construction until long-
term funding is arranged. Sources of long-term funding include issuance of long-term debt, leasing agreements, hybrid
securities or common stock. AEP and its utilities finance its operations with commercial paper and other variable rate
instruments that are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. To the extent that the Federal Reserve continues to raise
short-term interest rates, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition. In February
2021, severe winter weather impacted certain AEP service territories resulting in disruptions to SPP market conditions.
See Note 4 - Rate Matters for additional information. In March 2021, AEP entered into a $500 million 364-day Term
Loan and borrowed the full amount to help address the cash flow implications resulting from the February 2021 severe
winter weather event. In August 2022, AEP paid off the $500 million Term Loan. In 2022, increased fuel and purchased
power prices continue to lead to an increase in under collection of fuel costs. As a result, in July 2022, APCo and KPCo
entered into term loans of $100 million and $75 million, respectively, to help address the cash flow implications of the
increased fuel and purchased power costs. See “Deferred Fuel Costs” section of Executive Overview for additional
information on how the registrants are addressing the increase in deferred fuel regulatory assets. In September 2022, the
ODFA issued ratepayer-backed securitization bonds for the purpose of reimbursing PSO for $687 million of
extraordinary fuel costs and purchases of electricity incurred during the February 2021 severe winter weather event.
See Note 4 - Rate Matters for additional information. In December 2022, AEP entered into four individual Term Loans,
including three 364-day Term Loans, totaling $500 million to further address the cash flow implications of increased
fuel and purchased power prices. In February 2023, AEP entered into a $500 million term loan to address short-term
liquidity needs, made a capital contribution to SWEPCo, totaling $25 million, for general corporate business purposes
and made a capital contribution to AEPTCo, totaling $25 million, to manage short-term borrowing capacity under the
Money Pool.
105
Net Available Liquidity
AEP manages liquidity by maintaining adequate external financing commitments.  As of December 31, 2022, available
liquidity was approximately $2.6 billion as illustrated in the table below:
Amount Maturity
(in millions)
Commercial Paper Backup:
Revolving Credit Facility $ 4,000.0 March 2027 (a)
Revolving Credit Facility 1,000.0 March 2024 (a)
Cash and Cash Equivalents 509.4 
Total Liquidity Sources 5,509.4 
Less: AEP Commercial Paper Outstanding 2,862.2 
Net Available Liquidity $ 2,647.2 
(a) In April 2022, AEP extended the maturity dates of the Revolving Credit Facilities from March 2026 to March
2027 and from March 2023 to March 2024, respectively.
AEP uses its commercial paper program to meet the short-term borrowing needs of its subsidiaries.  The program funds
a Utility Money Pool, which funds AEP’s utility subsidiaries; a Nonutility Money Pool, which funds certain AEP
nonutility subsidiaries; and the short-term debt requirements of subsidiaries that are not participating in either money
pool for regulatory or operational reasons, as direct borrowers.  The maximum amount of commercial paper
outstanding during 2022 was $2.9 billion.  The weighted-average interest rate for AEP’s commercial paper during 2022
was 2.74%.
Other Credit Facilities
An uncommitted facility gives the issuer of the facility the right to accept or decline each request made under the
facility. AEP issues letters of credit on behalf of subsidiaries under five uncommitted facilities totaling, as of December
31, 2022, $400 million.  The Registrants’ maximum future payments for letters of credit issued under the uncommitted
facilities, as of December 31, 2022, was $287 million with maturities ranging from January 2023 to December 2023.
Financing Plan
As of December 31, 2022, AEP had $2 billion of long-term debt due within one year, excluding $490 million classified
as Liabilities Held for Sale on the balance sheet. This also included $250 million of Pollution Control Bonds with
mandatory tender dates and credit support for variable interest rates that requires the debt be classified as current and
$210 million of securitization bonds and DCC Fuel notes.  Management plans to refinance the majority of the
maturities due within one year on a long-term basis.
Securitized Accounts Receivables
AEP Credit’s receivables securitization agreement provides a commitment of $750 million from bank conduits to
purchase receivables and was amended in September 2021 to include a $125 million and a $625 million facility. The
$125 million facility was renewed in September 2022 and amended to extend the expiration date to September 2024.
The $625 million facility also expires in September 2024. As of December 31, 2022, the affiliated utility subsidiaries,
with the exception of SWEPCo, were in compliance with all requirements under the agreement. SWEPCo temporarily
eased credit policies from August 2022 through October 2022 to assist customers with higher than normal bills driven
by increased fuel costs and, in turn, experienced higher than normal aged receivables. In response, in January 2023,
AEP Credit amended its receivables securitization agreement to increase the eligibility criteria related to their aged
receivables requirements to bring SWEPCo back into compliance.
106
Debt Covenants and Borrowing Limitations
AEP’s credit agreements contain certain covenants and require it to maintain a percentage of debt-to-total capitalization
at a level that does not exceed 67.5%.  The method for calculating outstanding debt and capitalization is contractually-
defined in AEP’s credit agreements.  Debt as defined in the revolving credit agreement excludes securitization bonds
and debt of AEP Credit. As of December 31, 2022, this contractually-defined percentage was 59.1%. Non-performance
under these covenants could result in an event of default under these credit agreements.  In addition, the acceleration of
AEP’s payment obligations, or the obligations of certain of AEP’s major subsidiaries, prior to maturity under any other
agreement or instrument relating to debt outstanding in excess of $50 million, would cause an event of default under
these credit agreements.  This condition also applies in a majority of AEP’s non-exchange-traded commodity contracts
and would similarly allow lenders and counterparties to declare the outstanding amounts payable.  However, a default
under AEP’s non-exchange-traded commodity contracts would not cause an event of default under its credit
agreements.
The revolving credit facility does not permit the lenders to refuse a draw on any facility if a material adverse change
occurs.
Utility Money Pool borrowings and external borrowings may not exceed amounts authorized by regulatory orders and
AEP manages its borrowings to stay within those authorized limits.
ATM Program
AEP participates in an ATM offering program that allows AEP to issue, from time to time, up to an aggregate of $1
billion of its common stock, including shares of common stock that may be sold pursuant to an equity forward sales
agreement. There were no issuances under the ATM program for the year ended December 31, 2022. As of
December 31, 2022, approximately $511 million of equity is available for issuance under the ATM offering program.
See Note 14 - Financing Activities for additional information.
Equity Units
In August 2020, AEP issued 17 million Equity Units initially in the form of corporate units, at a stated amount of $50
per unit, for a total stated amount of $850 million. Net proceeds from the issuance were approximately $833 million.
Each corporate unit represents a 1/20 undivided beneficial ownership interest in $1,000 principal amount of AEP’s
1.30% Junior Subordinated Notes due in 2025 and a forward equity purchase contract which settles after three years in
August 2023. The proceeds were used to support AEP’s overall capital expenditure plan.
In March 2019, AEP issued 16.1 million Equity Units initially in the form of corporate units, at a stated amount of $50
per unit, for a total stated amount of $805 million. Net proceeds from the issuance were approximately $785 million.
Each corporate unit represents a 1/20 undivided beneficial ownership interest in $1,000 principal amount of AEP’s
3.40% Junior Subordinated Notes due in 2024 and a forward equity purchase contract which settled after three years in
2022. The proceeds from this issuance were used to support AEP’s overall capital expenditure plans including the
acquisition of Sempra Renewables LLC. In January 2022, AEP successfully remarketed the notes on behalf of holders
of the corporate units and did not directly receive any proceeds therefrom. Instead, the holders of the corporate units
used the debt remarketing proceeds to settle the forward equity purchase contract with AEP. The interest rate on the
notes was reset to 2.031% with the maturity remaining in 2024. In March 2022, AEP issued 8,970,920 shares of AEP
common stock and received proceeds totaling $805 million under the settlement of the forward equity purchase
contract. AEP common stock held in treasury was used to settle the forward equity purchase contract.
See Note 14 - Financing Activities for additional information.
107
Dividend Policy and Restrictions
The Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.83 per share in January 2023.  Future dividends may vary
depending upon AEP’s profit levels, operating cash flow levels and capital requirements, as well as financial and other
business conditions existing at the time. Parent’s income primarily derives from common stock equity in the earnings of
its utility subsidiaries. Various financing arrangements and regulatory requirements may impose certain restrictions on
the ability of the subsidiaries to transfer funds to Parent in the form of dividends. Management does not believe these
restrictions will have any significant impact on its ability to access cash to meet the payment of dividends on its
common stock. See “Dividend Restrictions” section of Note 14 for additional information.
Credit Ratings
AEP and its utility subsidiaries do not have any credit arrangements that would require material changes in payment
schedules or terminations as a result of a credit downgrade, but its access to the commercial paper market may depend
on its credit ratings.  In addition, downgrades in AEP’s credit ratings by one of the rating agencies could increase its
borrowing costs.  Counterparty concerns about the credit quality of AEP or its utility subsidiaries could subject AEP to
additional collateral demands under adequate assurance clauses under its derivative and non-derivative energy
contracts.
CASH FLOW
AEP relies primarily on cash flows from operations, debt issuances and its existing cash and cash equivalents to fund its
liquidity and investing activities. AEP’s investing and capital requirements are primarily capital expenditures, repaying
of long-term debt and paying dividends to shareholders. AEP uses short-term debt, including commercial paper, as a
bridge to long-term debt financing. The levels of borrowing may vary significantly due to the timing of long-term debt
financings and the impact of fluctuations in cash flows.
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash at Beginning of Period $ 451.4 $ 438.3 $ 432.6 
Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities 5,288.0 3,839.9 3,832.9 
Net Cash Flows Used for Investing Activities (7,751.8) (6,433.9) (6,233.9)
Net Cash Flows from Financing Activities 2,568.9 2,607.1 2,406.7 
Net Increase in Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash 105.1 13.1 5.7 
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash at End of Period $ 556.5 $ 451.4 $ 438.3 
108
Operating Activities
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Net Income $ 2,305.6 $ 2,488.1 $ 2,196.7 
Non-Cash Adjustments to Net Income (a) 3,461.6 3,025.9 2,954.8 
Mark-to-Market of Risk Management Contracts 15.5 112.3 66.5 
Pension Contributions to Qualified Plan Trust — — (110.3)
Property Taxes (41.2) (68.0) (43.3)
Deferred Fuel Over/Under Recovery, Net (319.2) (1,647.9) (31.8)
Change in Regulatory Assets (46.7) (238.9) (337.9)
Change in Other Noncurrent Assets (187.7) (126.6) (151.0)
Change in Other Noncurrent Liabilities 337.8 206.4 (54.5)
Change in Certain Components of Working Capital (237.7) 88.6 (656.3)
Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities $ 5,288.0 $ 3,839.9 $ 3,832.9 
(a)Non-Cash Adjustments to Net Income includes Depreciation and Amortization, Rockport Plant, Unit 2 Lease Amortization,
Deferred Income Taxes, Loss on the Expected Sale of the Kentucky Operations, Asset Impairments and Other Related
Charges, Impairment of Equity Method Investment, Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction, Amortization of
Nuclear Fuel, Gain on Sale of Mineral Rights and Establishment of 2017-2019 Virginia Triennial Review Regulatory Asset.
2022 Compared to 2021
Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities increased by $1.4 billion primarily due to the following:
•A $1.3 billion increase in cash primarily due to the timing of fuel and purchased power revenues and expenses.
PSO and SWEPCo were impacted by the February 2021 severe winter weather event in SPP which led to
significantly higher fuel and purchased power expenses which were deferred as regulatory assets in 2021. In
September 2022, the ODFA issued ratepayer-backed securitization bonds and provided PSO proceeds of $687
million as reimbursement of the extraordinary fuel costs and purchased electricity incurred during the severe
winter weather event. See Note 4 - Rate Matters for additional information. In 2022, increased fuel and
purchased power prices in excess of amounts included in fuel-related revenues has resulted in an increase in the
under collection of fuel costs in most jurisdictions, offsetting the proceeds received by PSO in September 2022.
See the “Deferred Fuel Costs” section of Executive Overview for additional information.
•A $253 million increase in cash from Net Income, after non-cash adjustments. See Results of Operations for
further detail.
•A $192 million increase in cash from Changes in Regulatory Assets primarily due to incremental other
operation and maintenance storm restoration expenses incurred in 2021 by APCo, SWEPCo and KPCo as a
result of the February 2021 severe winter weather event. The increase due to the February 2021 severe winter
weather event was partially offset by the deferral of incremental other operation and maintenance storm
restoration expenses incurred in June 2022 by APCo, KPCo, OPCo and WPCo. See Note 4 - Rate Matters for
additional information.
•A $131 million increase in cash from Changes in Other Noncurrent Liabilities. The increase is primarily due to
changes in provisions for refunds and regulatory liabilities driven by timing differences between collections
from and refunds to customers under rate rider mechanisms. See Note 5 - Effects of Regulation for additional
information.
•A $97 million increase primarily due to collateral held against risk management contracts due to pricing
movement in the commodities market.
109
These increases in cash were offset by:
•A $326 million decrease in cash from the Change in Certain Components of Working Capital. The decrease is
primarily due to fuel, material and supplies driven by current year increases in coal inventory and material and
supplies in addition to prior year decreases in coal and lignite inventory on hand, an increase in estimated
federal income taxes paid and the timing of accounts receivables. These decreases were partially offset by the
timing of accounts payable and a return of margin deposits from PJM originally paid in 2021.
Investing Activities
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Construction Expenditures $ (6,671.7)$ (5,659.6)$ (6,246.3)
Acquisitions of Nuclear Fuel (100.7) (104.5) (69.7)
Acquisition of the Dry Lake Solar Project — (114.4) — 
Acquisition of the North Central Wind Energy Facilities (1,207.3) (652.8) — 
Proceeds on Sale of Assets 218.0 118.9 71.1 
Other 9.9 (21.5) 11.0 
Net Cash Flows Used for Investing Activities $ (7,751.8)$ (6,433.9)$ (6,233.9)
2022 Compared to 2021
Net Cash Flows Used for Investing Activities increased by $1.3 billion primarily due to the following:
•A $1 billion increase in construction expenditures, primarily due to increases in Vertically Integrated and
Transmission and Distribution segments of $647 million and $411 million, respectively.
•A $440 million increase due to the 2022 acquisition of Traverse, partially offset by the 2021 acquisitions of the
Dry Lake Solar Project, Sundance and Maverick. See Note 7 - Acquisitions, Assets and Liabilities Held for
Sale, Dispositions and Impairments for additional information.
These increases in cash used were partially offset by:
•A $99 million increase in Proceeds from Sale of Assets, primarily due to the 2022 sale of certain mineral rights.
See Note 7 - Acquisitions, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Dispositions and Impairments for additional
information.
Financing Activities
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Issuance of Common Stock $ 826.5 $ 600.5 $ 155.0 
Issuance/Retirement of Debt, Net 3,802.5 3,631.7 3,927.3 
Dividends Paid on Common Stock (1,645.2) (1,519.5) (1,424.9)
Principal Payments for Finance Lease Obligations (309.5) (64.0) (61.7)
Redemption of Noncontrolling Interests — — (100.2)
Other (105.4) (41.6) (88.8)
Net Cash Flows from Financing Activities $ 2,568.9 $ 2,607.1 $ 2,406.7 
2022 Compared to 2021
Net Cash Flows from Financing Activities decreased by $38 million primarily due to the following:
•A $1.8 billion decrease in issuances of long-term debt. See Note 14 - Financing Activities for additional
information.
•A $246 million decrease due to an increase in Principal Payments for Finance Lease Obligations primarily
driven by Rockport Plant, Unit 2 final lease payments.
•A $126 million decrease due to an increase in dividends paid on common stock.
110
These decreases in cash were partially offset by:
•A $1.4 billion increase in short-term debt primarily due to increased draws under the commercial paper
program. See Note 14 - Financing Activities for additional information.
•A $644 million increase due to decreased retirements of long-term debt. See Note 14 - Financing Activities for
additional information.
•A $226 million increase in issuances of common stock primarily due to the settlement of the 2019 equity units.
See “Equity Units” section of Note 14 for additional information.
The following financing activities occurred during 2022:
AEP Common Stock:
•During 2022, AEP issued 683 thousand shares of common stock under the incentive compensation, employee
saving and dividend reinvestment plans. Additionally in 2022, AEP reissued 9 million shares of treasury stock
to fulfill share commitments related to AEP’s Equity Units. See “Common Stock” and “Equity Units” section
of Note 14 for additional information. AEP received net proceeds of $827 million related to these issuances.
Debt:
•During 2022, AEP issued approximately $4.7 billion of long-term debt, including $3.1 billion of senior
unsecured notes at interest rates ranging from 4.5% to 5.95%, $1.3 billion of other debt at various interest rates
and $214 million of pollution control bonds at interest rates ranging from 3% to 3.75%.  The proceeds from
these issuances were primarily used to fund long-term debt maturities, construction programs and to help
address working capital needs.
•During 2022, AEP entered into interest rate derivatives with notional amounts totaling $700 million that were
designated as cash flow hedges.  During 2022, settlements of AEP’s interest rate derivatives resulted in net cash
paid of $7 million for derivatives designated as fair hedges.  As of December 31, 2022, AEP had a total notional
amount of $950 million of outstanding interest rate derivatives designated as fair value hedges and $700
million designated as cash flow hedges.
See “Long-term Debt Subsequent Events” section of Note 14 for Long-term debt and other securities issued, retired and
principal payments made after December 31, 2022 through February 23, 2023, the date that the 10-K was issued.
111
BUDGETED CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
Management forecasts approximately $6.8 billion of capital expenditures in 2023.  For the four year period, 2024
through 2027, management forecasts capital expenditures of $32.9 billion. The expenditures are generally for
transmission, generation, distribution, regulated renewables and required environmental investment to comply with the
Federal EPA rules.  Estimated capital expenditures are subject to periodic review and modification and may vary based
on the ongoing effects of regulatory constraints, environmental regulations, business opportunities, market volatility,
economic trends, supply chain issues, weather, legal reviews and the ability to access capital.  Management expects to
fund these capital expenditures through cash flows from operations, proceeds from the sale of Kentucky operations,
proceeds from the sale of competitive contracted renewables and financing activities.  Generally, the Registrant
Subsidiaries use cash or short-term borrowings under the money pool to fund these expenditures until long-term
funding is arranged. The 2023 estimated capital expenditures include generation, transmission and distribution related
investments, as well as expenditures for compliance with environmental regulations as follows:
2023 Budgeted Capital Expenditur es
Segment Envir onmental Generation Renewables Transmission Distribution Other  (a) Total
(in millions)
Vertically Integrated
Utilities $ 150.7 $ 345.5 $ 106.1 $ 817.3 $ 1,310.7 $426.3 $3,156.6 (b)
Transmission and
Distribution Utilities — — — 999.0 993.1 287.5 2,279.6 
AEP Transmission Holdco — — — 1,290.6 — 19.1 1,309.7 (b)
Generation & Marketing — 43.9 4.7 — — 21.5 70.1 
Corporate and Other — — — — — 30.6 30.6 
Total $ 150.7 $ 389.4 $ 110.8 $ 3,106.9 $ 2,303.8 $785.0 $6,846.6 
(a)Amount primarily consists of facilities, software and telecommunications.
(b)2023 budgeted capital expenditures do not include any amounts for KPCo or KTCo.
112
The table below represents estimated capital investments by business segment for the years 2024 to 2027:
Segment 2024 2025 2026 2027
Vertically Integrated Utilities (a) $ 5,103.6 $ 6,417.2 $ 3,824.9 $ 3,306.3 
Transmission and Distribution Utilities 2,509.8 2,280.0 2,289.3 2,226.5 
AEP Transmission Holdco (a) 1,225.5 964.5 1,107.1 1,246.4 
Generation & Marketing 76.6 72.4 76.4 103.6 
Corporate and Other 27.4 14.0 15.4 2.1 
Total $ 8,942.9 $ 9,748.1 $ 7,313.1 $ 6,884.9 
(a) 2024-2027 estimated capital investments do not include any amounts for KPCo or KTCo.
The 2023 estimated capital expenditures by Registrant Subsidiary include distribution, transmission and generation-
related investments, as well as expenditures for compliance with environmental regulations as follows:
2023 Budgeted Capital Expenditur es
Company Envir onmental Generation Renewables Transmission Distribution Other  (a) Total
(in millions)
AEP Texas $ — $ — $ — $ 683.3 $ 509.1 $ 125.6 $ 1,318.0 
AEPTCo — — — 1,290.6 — 19.1 1,309.7 
APCo 65.9 122.8 25.3 324.9 432.8 146.7 1,118.4 
I&M — 100.8 2.0 74.6 297.1 105.5 580.0 
OPCo — — — 315.7 484.0 161.9 961.6 
PSO 0.2 27.4 57.7 119.2 305.7 54.1 564.3 
SWEPCo 4.8 48.1 21.2 290.0 221.3 110.4 695.8 
(a) Amount primarily consists of facilities, software and telecommunications.
113
CYBER SECURITY
The electric utility industry is an identified critical infrastructure function with mandatory cyber security requirements
under the authority of FERC. The NERC, which FERC certified as the nation’s Electric Reliability Organization,
developed mandatory critical infrastructure protection cyber security reliability standards. AEP’s service territory
covers multiple NERC regions and is audited at least annually by one or more of the regions. AEP has participated in
the NERC grid security and emergency response exercises, GridEx, for the past ten years and continues to participate in
the bi-yearly exercises. These NERC-led efforts test and further develop the coordination, threat sharing and interaction
between utilities and various government agencies relative to potential cyber and physical threats against the nation’s
electric grid. AEP also conducts internal exercises to test and further develop AEP’s cyber response plans. These
internal scenarios are chosen based on real world events and often include coordination with and communication to
AEP’s Chief Executive Officer and executive team.
The operations of AEP’s electric utility subsidiaries are subject to extensive and rigorous mandatory cyber and physical
security requirements that are developed and enforced by NERC to protect grid security and reliability. AEP’s
enterprise-wide security program includes cyber and physical security and incorporates many of the guidelines set forth
in the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework. AEP’s Chief Security Officer (CSO)
is also its NERC Critical Infrastructure Protection Senior Manager, ensuring alignment of compliance with the
enterprise-wide security program.
Critical cyber assets, such as data centers, power plants, transmission operations centers and business networks are
protected using multiple layers of cyber security controls and authentication. Cyber hackers and other malicious actors
have caused material disruption by successfully breaching a number of very secure facilities, including federal agencies
and financial institutions. As understanding of these events develop, AEP has adopted a defense in depth approach to
cyber security and continually assesses its cyber security tools and processes to determine where to strengthen its
defenses. These strategies include monitoring, alerting and emergency response, forensic analysis, disaster recovery,
threat sharing and criminal activity reporting. This approach has allowed AEP to deal with cyber and related threats,
intrusions and attempted breaches in real-time and to limit their impact to levels that would be expected in the ordinary
course of business in the absence of such malicious activity.
AEP has undertaken a variety of actions to monitor and address cyber-related risks. Cyber security and the effectiveness
of AEP’s cyber security processes are reviewed annually with the Board of Directors and at several meetings
throughout the year with the Technology Committee of the Board, the principal committee that exercises oversight with
respect to these matters. AEP’s Chief Executive Officer and executive team participate in interactive threat briefings
from AEP’s CSO and the security leadership team on a regular basis. AEP’s strategy and procedure for managing
cyber-related risks is integrated within its enterprise risk management processes. These procedures are designed to
ensure that any material information regarding potentially relevant cyber incidents is elevated in a timely manner both
to the appropriate leadership and, where applicable, to our external financial reporting and disclosure team. AEP’s
enterprise-wide security program continually adjusts staff and resources in response to the evolving threat landscape.
The costs for such investments are material and have remained constant over time, a pattern that is expected to
continue. In addition, AEP maintains cyber liability insurance to cover certain damages caused by cyber incidents.
AEP’s CSO leads the cyber security and physical security teams and is responsible for the design, implementation and
execution of AEP’s security risk management strategy, which includes cyber security. AEP’s cyber security team
operates a 24/7 Cyber Security Intelligence and Response Center responsible for monitoring the AEP System for cyber
risks and threats. The cyber security team constantly scans the AEP System for risks and threats. In addition, under the
direction of the CSO, the cyber security team actively monitors best practices, performs penetration testing, leads
response exercises and internal awareness campaigns and provides training and communication across the organization.
AEP’s security awareness training is mandatory for all employees and includes regular phish email testing to train
employees to identify malicious emails that could put AEP at risk.
114
AEP also continually reviews its business continuity plan to develop an effective recovery strategy that seeks to
decrease response times, limit financial impacts and maintain customer confidence during any business interruption.
The cyber security team administers a third-party risk governance program that identifies potential risks introduced
through third-party relationships, such as vendors, software and hardware manufacturers or professional service
providers. As warranted, AEP obtains certain contractual security guarantees and assurances with these third-party
relationships to help ensure the security and safety of its information. The cyber security team works closely with a
broad range of departments, including legal, regulatory, corporate communications, audit services, information
technology and operational technology functions critical to the power grid.
The cyber security team collaborates with partners from both industry and government, and routinely participates in
industry-wide programs that exchange knowledge of threats with utility peers, industry and federal agencies. AEP is an
active member of a number of industry-specific threat and information sharing communities including the Department
of Homeland Security’s Joint Cyber Defense Collaborative, the Electricity Information Sharing and Analysis Center
and the National Defense Information Sharing and Analysis Center. AEP continues to work with nonaffiliated entities to
do penetration testing and to design and implement appropriate remediation strategies. There can be no assurance,
however, that these efforts will be effective to prevent material interruption of services or other damages to AEP's
business or operations in connection with any cyber-related incident.
115
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES AND ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures, including amounts related to legal matters and
contingencies.  Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if:
•It requires assumptions to be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made; and
•Changes in the estimate or different estimates that could have been selected could have a material effect on net
income or financial condition.
Management discusses the development and selection of critical accounting estimates as presented below with the
Audit Committee of AEP’s Board of Directors and the Audit Committee reviews the disclosures relating to them.
Management believes that the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in the
financial statements are appropriate.  However, actual results can differ significantly from those estimates.
The sections that follow present information about critical accounting estimates, as well as the effects of hypothetical
changes in the material assumptions used to develop each estimate.
Regulatory Accounting
Nature of Estimates Required
The Registrants’ financial statements reflect the actions of regulators that can result in the recognition of revenues and
expenses in different time periods than enterprises that are not rate-regulated.
The Registrants recognize regulatory assets (deferred expenses to be recovered in the future) and regulatory liabilities
(deferred future revenue reductions or refunds) for the economic effects of regulation.  Specifically, the timing of
expense and income recognition is matched with regulated revenues.  Liabilities are also recorded for refunds, or
probable refunds, to customers that have not been made.
Assumptions and Approach Used
When incurred costs are probable of recovery through regulated rates, regulatory assets are recorded on the balance
sheets.  Management reviews the probability of recovery at each balance sheet date and whenever new events
occur.  Similarly, regulatory liabilities are recorded when a determination is made that a refund is probable or when
ordered by a commission.  Examples of new events that affect probability include changes in the regulatory
environment, issuance of a regulatory commission order or passage of new legislation.  The assumptions and judgments
used by regulatory authorities continue to have an impact on the recovery of costs as well as the return of revenues, rate
of return earned on invested capital and timing and amount of assets to be recovered through regulated rates.  If
recovery of a regulatory asset is no longer probable, that regulatory asset is written-off as a charge against earnings.  A
write-off of regulatory assets or establishment of a regulatory liability may also reduce future cash flows since there
will be no recovery through regulated rates.
Effect if Different Assumptions Used
A change in the above assumptions may result in a material impact on net income.  See Note 5 - Effects of Regulation
for additional information related to regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities.
116
Revenue Recognition – Unbilled Revenues
Nature of Estimates Required
AEP recognizes revenues from customers as the performance obligations of delivering energy to customers are
satisfied.  The determination of sales to individual customers is based on the reading of their meters, which is
performed on a systematic basis throughout the month.  At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to
customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue accrual is
recorded.  This estimate is reversed in the following month and actual revenue is recorded based on meter
readings.  PSO and SWEPCo do not include the fuel portion in unbilled revenue in accordance with the applicable state
commission regulatory treatment in Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Texas.
Accrued unbilled revenues for the Vertically Integrated Utilities segment were $354 million and $246 million as of
December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The changes in unbilled electric utility revenues for AEP’s Vertically
Integrated Utilities segment were $108 million, $(42) million and $40 million for the years ended December 31, 2022,
2021 and 2020, respectively.  The changes in unbilled electric revenues are primarily due to changes in weather and
rates.  
Accrued unbilled revenues for the Transmission and Distribution Utilities segment were $221 million and $172 million
as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The changes in unbilled electric utility revenues for AEP’s
Transmission and Distribution Utilities segment were $49 million, $1 million and $5 million for the years ended
December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.  The changes in unbilled electric revenues are primarily due to
changes in weather and rates.  
Accrued unbilled revenues for the Generation & Marketing segment were $109 million and $110 million as of
December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The changes in unbilled electric utility revenues for AEP’s Generation &
Marketing segment were $(1) million, $24 million and $11 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and
2020, respectively.  
Assumptions and Approach Used
For each Registrant except AEPTCo, the monthly estimate for unbilled revenues is based upon a primary computation
of net generation (generation plus purchases less sales) less the current month’s billed KWhs and estimated line losses,
plus the prior month’s unbilled KWhs. However, due to the potential for meter reading issues, meter drift and other
anomalies, a secondary computation is made, based upon an allocation of billed KWhs to the current month and
previous month, on a billing cycle-by-cycle basis, and by dividing the current month aggregated result by the billed
KWhs. The two methodologies are evaluated to confirm that they are not statistically different.
For AEP’s Generation & Marketing segment, management calculates unbilled revenues based on a primary
computation of load as provided by PJM less the current month’s billed KWhs and estimated line losses, plus the prior
month’s unbilled KWhs. However, due to the potential for meter reading issues, meter drift and other anomalies, a
secondary computation is made, based upon using the most recent historic daily activity on a per contract basis. The
two methodologies are evaluated to confirm that they are not statistically different.
Effect if Different Assumptions Used
If the two methodologies used to estimate unbilled revenue are statistically different, a limiter adjustment is made to
bring the primary computation within one standard deviation of the secondary computation. Additionally, significant
fluctuations in energy demand for the unbilled period, weather, line losses or changes in the composition of customer
classes could impact the estimate of unbilled revenue.  
117
Accounting for Derivative Instruments
Nature of Estimates Required
Management considers fair value techniques, valuation adjustments related to credit and liquidity and judgments related
to the probability of forecasted transactions occurring within the specified time period to be critical accounting
estimates.  These estimates are considered significant because they are highly susceptible to change from period to
period and are dependent on many subjective factors.
Assumptions and Approach Used
The Registrants measure the fair values of derivative instruments and hedge instruments accounted for using MTM
accounting based primarily on exchange prices and broker quotes.  If a quoted market price is not available, the fair
value is estimated based on the best market information available including valuation models that estimate future
energy prices based on existing market and broker quotes and other assumptions.  Fair value estimates, based upon the
best market information available, involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment.  These uncertainties
include forward market price assumptions.
The Registrants reduce fair values by estimated valuation adjustments for items such as discounting, liquidity and credit
quality.  Liquidity adjustments are calculated by utilizing bid/ask spreads to estimate the potential fair value impact of
liquidating open positions over a reasonable period of time.  Credit adjustments on risk management contracts are
calculated using estimated default probabilities and recovery rates relative to the counterparties or counterparties with
similar credit profiles and contractual netting agreements.
With respect to hedge accounting, management assesses hedge effectiveness and evaluates a forecasted transaction’s
probability of occurrence within the specified time period as provided in the original hedge documentation.
Effect if Different Assumptions Used
There is inherent risk in valuation modeling given the complexity and volatility of energy markets.  Therefore, it is
possible that results in future periods may be materially different as contracts settle.
The probability that hedged forecasted transactions will not occur by the end of the specified time period could change
operating results by requiring amounts currently classified in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) to be
classified into Operating Income.
For additional information see Note 10 - Derivatives and Hedging and Note 11 - Fair Value Measurements.  See “Fair
Value Measurements of Assets and Liabilities” section of Note 1 for AEP’s fair value calculation policy.
118
Long-Lived Assets
Nature of Estimates Required
In accordance with the requirements of “Property, Plant and Equipment” accounting guidance and “Regulated
Operations” accounting guidance, the Registrants evaluate long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any such assets may not be recoverable. Such events or
changes in circumstance include planned abandonments, probable disallowances for rate-making purposes of assets
determined to be recently completed plant and assets that meet the held-for-sale criteria.  The Registrants utilize a group
composite method of depreciation to estimate the useful lives of long-lived assets.  
An impairment evaluation of a long-lived, held and used asset may result from an abandonment, significant decreases
in the market price of an asset, a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is being used or in
its physical condition, a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value
of an asset, as well as other economic or operations analyses.  If the book value of the asset is not recoverable through
estimated, future undiscounted cash flows, the Registrants record an impairment to the extent that the fair value of the
asset is less than its book value.  Performing an impairment evaluation involves a significant degree of estimation and
judgment in areas such as identifying circumstances that indicate an impairment may exist, identifying and grouping
affected assets and developing the non-discounted and discounted future cash flows (used to estimate fair value in the
absence of market-based value, in some instances) associated with the asset.  Assets held for sale must be measured at
the lower of the book value or fair value less cost to sell. An impairment is recognized if an asset’s fair value less costs
to sell is less than its book value. Any impairment charge is recorded as a reduction to earnings.
Assumptions and Approach Used
The fair value of an asset is the amount at which that asset could be bought or sold in a current transaction between
willing parties other than in a forced or liquidation sale.  Quoted market prices in active markets are the best evidence
of fair value and are used as the basis for the measurement, if available.  In the absence of quoted prices for identical or
similar assets in active markets, the Registrants estimate fair value using various internal and external valuation
methods including cash flow projections or other market indicators of fair value such as bids received, comparable
sales or independent appraisals.  Cash flow estimates are based on relevant information available at the time the
estimates are made.  Estimates of future cash flows are, by nature, highly uncertain and may vary significantly from
actual results.  Also, when measuring fair value, management evaluates the characteristics of the asset or liability to
determine if market participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the
measurement date.  Such characteristics include, for example, the condition and location of the asset or restrictions on
the use of the asset.  The Registrants perform depreciation studies that include a review of any external factors that may
affect the useful life to determine composite depreciation rates and related lives which are subject to periodic review by
state regulatory commissions for regulated assets.  The fair value of the asset could be different using different
estimates and assumptions in these valuation techniques.
Effect if Different Assumptions Used
In connection with the evaluation of long-lived assets in accordance with the requirements of “Property, Plant and
Equipment” accounting guidance, the fair value of the asset can vary if different estimates and assumptions are used in
the applied valuation techniques.  Estimates for depreciation rates contemplate the history of interim capital
replacements and the amount of salvage expected.  In cases of impairment, the best estimate of fair value was made
using valuation methods based on the most current information at that time.  Differences in realized sales proceeds
versus the estimated fair value of the asset are generally due to a variety of factors including, but not limited to,
differences in subsequent market conditions, the level of bidder interest, the timing and terms of the transactions and
management’s analysis of the benefits of the transaction.
119
Pension and OPEB
AEP maintains a qualified, defined benefit pension plan (Qualified Plan), which covers substantially all nonunion and
certain union employees, and unfunded, non-qualified supplemental plans (Nonqualified Plans) to provide benefits in
excess of amounts permitted under the provisions of the tax law for participants in the Qualified Plan (collectively the
Pension Plans).  AEP also sponsors OPEB plans to provide health and life insurance benefits for retired
employees.  The Pension Plans and OPEB plans are collectively referred to as the Plans.
For a discussion of investment strategy, investment limitations, target asset allocations and the classification of
investments within the fair value hierarchy, see “Investments Held in Trust for Future Liabilities” and “Fair Value
Measurements of Assets and Liabilities” sections of Note 1.  See Note 8 - Benefit Plans for information regarding costs
and assumptions for the Plans.
The following table shows the net periodic cost (credit) of the Plans:
Years Ended December 31,
Net Periodic Cost (Credit) 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Pension Plans $ 80.9 $ 138.2 $ 108.6 
OPEB (144.8) (122.0) (109.7)
The net periodic benefit cost is calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including expected long-term
rates of return on the Plans’ assets.  In developing the expected long-term rate of return assumption for 2023,
management evaluated input from actuaries and investment consultants, including their reviews of asset class return
expectations as well as long-term inflation assumptions.  Management also considered historical returns of the
investment markets and tax rates which affect a portion of the OPEB plans’ assets.  Management anticipates that the
investment managers employed for the Plans will invest the assets to generate future returns averaging 7.5% for the
Qualified Plan and 7.25% for the OPEB plans.
The expected long-term rate of return on the Plans’ assets is based on management’s targeted asset allocation and
expected investment returns for each investment category.  Assumptions for the Plans are summarized in the following
table:
Pension Plans OPEB
Assumed/ Assumed/
2023 Expected 2023 Expected
Target Long-Term Target Long-Term
Asset Rate of Asset Rate of
Allocation Return Allocation Return
Equity 30 % 9.28 % 59 % 8.30 %
Fixed Income 54 5.92 40 5.71 
Other Investments 15 9.06 — — 
Cash and Cash Equivalents 1 2.67 1 2.67 
Total 100 % 100 %
Management regularly reviews the actual asset allocation and periodically rebalances the investments to the targeted
allocation.  Management believes that 7.5% for the Qualified Plan and 7.25% for the OPEB plans are reasonable
estimates of the long-term rate of return on the Plans’ assets.  The Pension Plans’ assets had an actual loss of 16.88%
and a gain of 5.41% for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.  The OPEB plans’ assets had an
actual loss of 19.53% and a gain of 8.67% for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021,
respectively.  Management will continue to evaluate the actuarial assumptions, including the expected rate of return, at
least annually, and will adjust the assumptions as necessary.
120
AEP bases the determination of pension expense or income on a market-related valuation of assets, which reduces year-
to-year volatility.  This market-related valuation recognizes investment gains or losses over a five-year period from the
year in which they occur.  Investment gains or losses for this purpose are the difference between the expected return
calculated using the market-related value of assets and the actual return based on the market-related value of
assets.  Since the market-related value of assets recognizes gains or losses over a five-year period, the future value of
assets will be impacted as previously deferred gains or losses are recorded.  As of December 31, 2022, AEP had
cumulative gains of approximately $523 million for the Qualified Plan that remain to be recognized in the calculation
of the market-related value of assets.  These unrecognized market-related net actuarial gains may result in decreases in
the future pension costs depending on several factors, including whether such gains at each measurement date exceed
the corridor in accordance with “Compensation – Retirement Benefits” accounting guidance.
The method used to determine the discount rate that AEP utilizes for determining future obligations is a duration-based
method in which a hypothetical portfolio of high quality corporate bonds is constructed with cash flows matching the
benefit plan liability.  The composite yield on the hypothetical bond portfolio is used as the discount rate for the
plan.  The discount rate as of December 31, 2022 under this method was 5.5% for the Qualified Plan, 5.6% for the
Nonqualified Plans and 5.5% for the OPEB plans.  Due to the effect of the unrecognized net actuarial losses and based
on an expected rate of return on the Pension Plans’ assets of 7.5%, discount rates of 5.5% and 5.6% and various other
assumptions, management estimates credits for the Pension Plans will approximate $24 million and $20 million in 2023
and 2024, respectively. Management estimates that the pension costs for the Pension Plans will approximate $8 million
in 2025.  Based on an expected rate of return on the OPEB plans’ assets of 7.25%, a discount rate of 5.5% and various
other assumptions, management estimates OPEB plan credits will approximate $107 million, $65 million and $62
million in 2023, 2024 and 2025, respectively. Future actual costs will depend on future investment performance,
changes in future discount rates and various other factors related to the populations participating in the Plans.  The
actuarial assumptions used may differ materially from actual results.  The effects of a 50 basis point change to selective
actuarial assumptions are included in the “Effect if Different Assumptions Used” section below.
The value of AEP’s Pension Plans’ assets decreased to $4.1 billion as of December 31, 2022 from $5.4 billion as of
December 31, 2021 primarily due to negative investment returns.  During 2022, the Qualified Plan paid $395 million
and the Nonqualified Plans paid $7 million in benefits to plan participants.  The value of AEP’s OPEB plans’ assets
decreased to $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2022 from $2.0 billion as of December 31, 2021 primarily due to negative
investment returns.  During 2022, the OPEB plans paid $140 million in benefits to plan participants.
Nature of Estimates Required
AEP sponsors pension and OPEB plans in various forms covering all employees who meet eligibility
requirements.  These benefits are accounted for under “Compensation” and “Plan Accounting” accounting
guidance.  The measurement of pension and OPEB obligations, costs and liabilities is dependent on a variety of
assumptions.
Assumptions and Approach Used
The critical assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors:
•Discount rate
•Compensation increase rate
•Cash balance crediting rate
•Health care cost trend rate
•Expected return on plan assets
121
Other assumptions, such as retirement, mortality and turnover, are evaluated periodically and updated to reflect actual
experience.
Effect if Different Assumptions Used
The actuarial assumptions used may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic
conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates, longer or shorter life spans of participants or higher or lower lump sum
versus annuity payout elections by plan participants.  These differences may result in a significant impact to the amount
of pension and OPEB expense recorded.  If a 50 basis point change were to occur for the following assumptions, the
approximate effect on the financial statements would be as follows:
Pension Plans OPEB
+0.5% -0.5% +0.5% -0.5%
(in millions)
Effect on December 31, 2022 Benefit Obligations
Discount Rate $ (170.2)$ 184.9 $ (37.1)$ 40.3 
Compensation Increase Rate 19.7 (18.3) NA NA
Cash Balance Crediting Rate 57.2 (54.2) NA NA
Health Care Cost Trend Rate NA NA 6.1 (5.4)
Effect on 2022 Periodic Cost
Discount Rate $ (12.7)$ 14.0 $ 3.0 $ (2.9)
Compensation Increase Rate 7.4 (6.8) NA NA
Cash Balance Crediting Rate 14.3 (13.4) NA NA
Health Care Cost Trend Rate NA NA 0.6 (0.2)
Expected Return on Plan Assets (24.1) 24.1 (10.1) 10.1 
NA    Not applicable.
SIGNIFICANT TAX LEGISLATION
In August 2022, President Biden signed H.R. 5376 into law, commonly known as the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022
or IRA. Most notably this budget reconciliation legislation creates a 15% minimum tax on adjusted financial statement
income (Corporate Alternative Minimum Tax or CAMT), extends and increases the value of PTCs and ITCs, adds a
nuclear and clean hydrogen PTC, an energy storage ITC and allows the sale or transfer of tax credits to third parties for
cash. The IRS has since released interim guidance in the form of Notices addressing the Prevailing Wage and
Apprenticeship Requirements tied to full value PTCs and ITCs for projects that begin construction on or after January
29, 2023, and time-sensitive issues related to the CAMT. As further significant guidance from Treasury and the IRS is
expected on the tax provisions in the IRA, AEP will continue to monitor any issued guidance and evaluate the impact
on future net income, cash flows and financial condition.
The enactment of the IRA will have future cash flow and income tax reporting considerations. AEP and subsidiaries
expect to be applicable CAMT corporations beginning in 2023 and AEP expects to have CAMT cash tax payments
beginning in 2024. CAMT cash taxes are expected to be offset by regulatory recovery, the utilization of tax credits and
additionally, the cash inflow generated by the sale of tax credits. The sale of tax credits will be presented in the
operating section of the cash flow statement consistent with the presentation of cash taxes paid. AEP will present the
gain or loss on sale of tax credits through income tax expense on the statement of income. Management believes this
presentation provides consistency in financial statement reporting as it matches the originating income tax benefit of
the tax credit.
ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
See Note 2 - New Accounting Standards for information related to accounting standards. There are no new standards
expected to have a material impact to the Registrants’ financial statements.
122
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
Market Risks
The Vertically Integrated Utilities segment is exposed to certain market risks as a major power producer and through
transactions in power, coal, natural gas and marketing contracts. These risks include commodity price risks which may
be subject to capacity risk, credit risk as well as interest rate risk. These risks represent the risk of loss that may impact
this segment due to changes in the underlying market prices or rates.
The Transmission and Distribution Utilities segment is exposed to energy procurement risk and interest rate risk.
The Generation & Marketing segment conducts marketing, risk management and retail activities in ERCOT, PJM, SPP
and MISO. This segment is exposed to certain market risks as a marketer of wholesale and retail electricity. These risks
include commodity price risks which may be subject to capacity risk, credit risk as well as interest rate risk. These risks
represent the risk of loss that may impact this segment due to changes in the underlying market prices or rates. In
addition, the Generation & Marketing segment is also exposed to certain market risks as a power producer and through
transactions in wholesale electricity, natural gas and marketing contracts.
Management employs risk management contracts including physical forward and financial forward purchase-and-sale
contracts.  Management engages in risk management of power, capacity, coal, natural gas and, to a lesser extent,
heating oil, gasoline and other commodity contracts to manage the risk associated with the energy business.  As a result,
AEP is subject to price risk.  The amount of risk taken is determined by the Commercial Operations, Energy Supply and
Finance groups in accordance with established risk management policies as approved by the Finance Committee of the
Board of Directors.  AEPSC’s market risk oversight staff independently monitors risk policies, procedures and risk
levels and provides members of the Regulated Risk Committee and the Energy Supply Risk Committee (Competitive
Risk Committee) various reports regarding compliance with policies, limits and procedures.  The Regulated Risk
Committee consists of AEPSC’s Chief Financial Officer, Chief Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President Utilities,
Senior Vice President of Regulated Commercial Operations, Senior Vice President of Grid Solutions, Senior Vice
President of Treasury and Risk and Chief Risk Officer.  The Competitive Risk Committee consists of AEPSC’s Chief
Financial Officer, Chief Commercial Officer, Senior Vice President of Treasury and Risk, Senior Vice President of
Competitive Commercial Operations and Chief Risk Officer.  When commercial activities exceed predetermined limits,
positions are modified to reduce the risk to be within the limits unless specifically approved by the respective
committee.
Due to multiple defaults of market participants, ERCOT had a large outstanding unpaid balance associated with the
February 2021 winter storm. A certain portion of this balance has been securitized and disbursed to impacted market
participants. A recovery plan has been reached by ERCOT for the remaining portion of the outstanding balance. In both
cases, financial costs are allocated to certain market participants and in the role AEPEP is exposed, but not materially. If
the market rules were to change on how socialized losses are allocated this could affect AEPEP’s exposure. Regardless
of the approach of how socialized losses are allocated there are potential downstream impacts that could push
counterparties into financial distress and or bankruptcy, affecting AEPEP, AEP Texas and ETT.
123
The following table summarizes the reasons for changes in total MTM value as compared to December 31, 2021:
MTM Risk Management Contract Net Assets (Liabilities)
Year Ended December 31, 2022
Vertically
Integrated
UtilitiesTransmission
and
Distribution
UtilitiesGeneration
&
Marketing Total
(in millions)
Total MTM Risk Management Contract Net Assets
(Liabilities) as of December 31, 2021 $ 59.8 $ (91.4)$ 275.9 $ 244.3 
(Gain)/Loss from Contracts Realized/Settled During the
Period and Entered in a Prior Period (75.5) 5.7 (66.0) (135.8)
Fair Value of New Contracts at Inception When Entered
During the Period (a) — — 0.9 0.9 
Changes in Fair Value Due to Market Fluctuations
During the Period (b) 10.7 — 149.7 160.4 
Changes in Fair Value Allocated to Regulated
Jurisdictions (c) 133.7 45.7 — 179.4 
MTM Risk Management Contract Net Assets Held for
Sale Related to KPCo (d) (2.5) — — (2.5)
Total MTM Risk Management Contract Net Assets
(Liabilities) as of December 31, 2022 $ 126.2 $ (40.0)$ 360.5 446.7 
Commodity Cash Flow Hedge Contracts 283.3 
Interest Rate Cash Flow Hedge Contracts 11.0 
Fair Value Hedge Contracts (127.4)
Collateral Deposits (479.6)
Total MTM Derivative Contract Net Assets as of
December 31, 2022 $ 134.0 
(a) Reflects fair value on primarily long-term structured contracts which are typically with customers that seek fixed pricing
to limit their risk against fluctuating energy prices.  The contract prices are valued against market curves associated with
the delivery location and delivery term.  A significant portion of the total volumetric position has been economically
hedged.
(b) Market fluctuations are attributable to various factors such as supply/demand, weather, etc.
(c) Relates to the net gains (losses) of those contracts that are not reflected on the statements of income.  These net gains
(losses) are recorded as regulatory liabilities/assets or accounts payable on the balance sheet.
(d) MTM risk management contract net assets relating to KPCo are classified as Assets Held for Sale on the balance sheet.
See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional information.
See Note 10 – Derivatives and Hedging and Note 11 – Fair Value Measurements for additional information related to
risk management contracts.  The following tables and discussion provide information on credit risk and market
volatility risk.
Credit Risk
Credit risk is mitigated in wholesale marketing and trading activities by assessing the creditworthiness of potential
counterparties before entering into transactions with them and continuing to evaluate their creditworthiness on an
ongoing basis.  Management uses credit agency ratings and current market-based qualitative and quantitative data as
well as financial statements to assess the financial health of counterparties on an ongoing basis.
AEP has risk management contracts (includes non-derivative contracts) with numerous counterparties.  Since open risk
management contracts are valued based on changes in market prices of the related commodities, exposures change
daily.  As of December 31, 2022, credit exposure net of collateral to sub investment grade counterparties was
approximately 0.6%, expressed in terms of net MTM assets, net receivables and the net open positions for contracts not
subject to MTM (representing economic risk even though there may not be risk of accounting loss). 
124
As of December 31, 2022, the following table approximates AEP’s counterparty credit quality and exposure based on
netting across commodities, instruments and legal entities where applicable:
Counterparty Credit QualityExposure
Before
Credit
CollateralCredit
CollateralNet
ExposureNumber of
Counterparties
>10% of
Net ExposureNet Exposure
of
Counterparties
>10%
(in millions, except number of counterparties)
Investment Grade $ 691.0 $ 236.7 $ 454.3 2 $ 131.2 
Split Rating 9.0 — 9.0 1 9.0 
Noninvestment Grade 2.3 2.2 0.1 1 0.1 
No External Ratings:
Internal Investment Grade 41.2 — 41.2 2 24.8 
Internal Noninvestment Grade 5.2 2.5 2.7 3 2.5 
Total as of December 31, 2022$ 748.7 $ 241.4 $ 507.3 
All exposure in the table above relates to AEPSC and AEPEP as AEPSC is agent for and transacts on behalf of certain
AEP subsidiaries, including the Registrant Subsidiaries and AEPEP is agent for and transacts on behalf of other AEP
subsidiaries.
In addition, AEP is exposed to credit risk related to participation in RTOs.  For each of the RTOs in which AEP
participates, this risk is generally determined based on the proportionate share of member gross activity over a specified
period of time.
Value at Risk (VaR) Associated with Risk Management Contracts
Management uses a risk measurement model, which calculates VaR, to measure AEP’s commodity price risk in the risk
management portfolio.  The VaR is based on the variance-covariance method using historical prices to estimate
volatilities and correlations and assumes a 95% confidence level and a one-day holding period.  Based on this VaR
analysis, as of December 31, 2022, a near term typical change in commodity prices is not expected to materially impact
net income, cash flows or financial condition.
Management calculates the VaR for both a trading and non-trading portfolio. The trading portfolio consists primarily of
contracts related to energy trading and marketing activities. The non-trading portfolio consists primarily of economic
hedges of generation and retail supply activities.
125
The following tables show the end, high, average and low market risk as measured by VaR for the periods indicated:
VaR Model
Trading Portfolio
Twelve Months Ended Twelve Months Ended
December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
End High Average Low End High Average Low
(in millions) (in millions)
$ 0.5 $ 4.5 $ 0.7 $ 0.1 $ 0.4 $ 3.6 $ 0.4 $ 0.1 
VaR Model
Non-Trading Portfolio
Twelve Months Ended Twelve Months Ended
December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
End High Average Low End High Average Low
(in millions) (in millions)
$ 17.7 $ 76.9 $ 24.7 $ 6.7 $ 8.3 $ 14.9 $ 3.7 $ 0.7 
Management back-tests VaR results against performance due to actual price movements.  Based on the assumed 95%
confidence interval, the performance due to actual price movements would be expected to exceed the VaR at least once
every 20 trading days.
As the VaR calculation captures recent price movements, management also performs regular stress testing of the trading
portfolio to understand AEP’s exposure to extreme price movements.  A historical-based method is employed whereby
the current trading portfolio is subjected to actual, observed price movements from the last several years in order to
ascertain which historical price movements translated into the largest potential MTM loss.  Management then
researches the underlying positions, price movements and market events that created the most significant exposure and
reports the findings to the Risk Executive Committee, Regulated Risk Committee or Competitive Risk Committee as
appropriate.
Interest Rate Risk
AEP is exposed to interest rate market fluctuations in the normal course of business operations. Prior to 2022, interest
rates remained at low levels and the Federal Reserve maintained the federal funds target range at 0.0% to 0.25% for
much of 2021. However, during 2022, the Federal Reserve approved rate increases totaling 4.25%. The Federal Reserve
has indicated that, in light of continued signs of inflation, it foresees further increases in interest rates in 2023. AEP has
outstanding short and long-term debt which is subject to variable rates. AEP manages interest rate risk by limiting
variable-rate exposures to a percentage of total debt, by entering into interest rate derivative instruments and by
monitoring the effects of market changes in interest rates. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and
2020, a 100 basis point change in the benchmark rate on AEP’s variable rate debt would impact pretax interest expense
annually by $47 million, $33 million and $32 million, respectively.
126
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
American Electric Power Company, Inc.
Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of American Electric Power Company, Inc. and its
subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 and the related consolidated statements of income, of
comprehensive income (loss), of changes in equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2022, including the related notes and financial statement schedules listed in the index appearing under
Item 15(a)(2) (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). We also have audited the Company's
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control -
Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO).
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 and the results of its operations and its cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022 in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal
Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO.
Basis for Opinions
The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our
responsibility is to express opinions on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and on the Company's internal
control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the
Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities
and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of
material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material
misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that
respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used
and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated
financial statements. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of
internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide
a reasonable basis for our opinions.
127
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies
and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on
the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the consolidated
financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relate
to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (ii) involved our especially
challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way
our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical
audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which
they relate.
Accounting for the Effects of Cost-Based Regulation
As described in Notes 1 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company's consolidated financial statements
reflect the actions of regulators that result in the recognition of certain revenues and expenses in different time periods
than enterprises that are not rate-regulated. As of December 31, 2022, there were $5.6 billion of deferred costs included
in regulatory assets, $0.8 billion of which were pending final regulatory approval, and $8.0 billion of regulatory
liabilities awaiting potential refund or future rate reduction, $0.2 billion of which were pending final regulatory
determination. Regulatory assets (deferred expenses) and regulatory liabilities (deferred future revenue reductions or
refunds) are recorded to reflect the economic effects of regulation in the same accounting period by matching expenses
with their recovery through regulated revenues and matching income with its passage to customers in cost-based
regulated rates. Management reviews the probability of recovery of regulatory assets and refund of regulatory liabilities
at each balance sheet date and whenever new events occur, such as changes in the regulatory environment, issuance of
regulatory commission orders, or passage of new legislation.
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the accounting for the effects
of cost-based regulation is a critical audit matter are the significant judgment by management in the ongoing evaluation
of the recovery of regulatory assets and refund of regulatory liabilities, and in applying guidance contained in rate
orders and other relevant evidence; this in turn led to a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity and effort in
performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence related to the probability of recovery of regulatory assets and
refund of regulatory liabilities.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our
overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls
relating to management's evaluation of new events, such as changes in the regulatory environment, issuance of
regulatory commission orders, or passage of new legislation, including the probability of recovery of regulatory
128
assets and refund of regulatory liabilities. These procedures also included, among others, evaluating the reasonableness
of management's assessment of probability of future recovery for regulatory assets and refund of regulatory liabilities.
Testing of regulatory assets and liabilities, involved evaluating the provisions and formulas outlined in rate orders, other
regulatory correspondence, application of relevant regulatory precedents, and other relevant evidence.
Valuation of Level 3 Risk Management Commodity Contracts
As described in Notes 1, 10 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company employs risk management
commodity contracts including physical and financial forward purchase and sale contracts and, to a lesser extent, over-
the-counter swaps and options to accomplish its risk management strategies. Certain over-the-counter and bilaterally
executed derivative instruments are executed in less active markets with a lower availability of pricing information. As
disclosed by management, the fair value of these risk management commodity contracts is estimated based on the best
market information available, including valuation models that estimate future energy prices based on existing market
and broker quotes, and other assumptions. Fair value estimates, based upon the best market information available,
involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment including forward market price assumptions. The main driver
of contracts being classified as Level 3 is the inability to substantiate energy price curves in the market. Management
utilized such unobservable pricing inputs to value its Level 3 risk management commodity contract assets and
liabilities, which totaled $332.5 million and $180.6 million, as of December 31, 2022, respectively.
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the valuation of Level 3 risk
management commodity contracts is a critical audit matter are the significant judgment by management when
developing the fair value of the commodity contracts; this in turn led to a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity
and effort in performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence relating to the forward market price assumptions
used in management's valuation models. In addition, the audit effort involved the use of professionals with specialized
skill and knowledge.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our
overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls
relating to management's valuation of the risk management commodity contracts, including controls over the
assumptions used to value the Level 3 risk management commodity contracts. These procedures also included, among
others, testing management's process for developing the fair value of the Level 3 risk management commodity
contracts, evaluating the appropriateness of the valuation models, evaluating the reasonableness of the forward market
price assumptions, and testing the data used by management in the valuation models. Professionals with specialized
skill and knowledge were used to assist in evaluating the reasonableness of the forward market price assumptions.
Classification of the Assets and Liabilities of KPCo and KTCo as Held for Sale
As described in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, in October 2021 the Company entered into a Stock
Purchase Agreement (SPA) to sell Kentucky Power Company (KPCo) and Kentucky Transmission Company (KTCo) to
Liberty Utilities Co. (Liberty) for $2.85 billion. In September 2022, the Company and Liberty entered into an
amendment to the SPA which reduced the purchase price to approximately $2.646 billion. The sale is subject to several
regulatory approvals, including approval from the Kentucky Public Service Commission (KPSC) and from the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). In May 2022, the KPSC approved the transfer of KPCo to Liberty subject to
conditions contingent upon the closing of the sale. In December 2022, the FERC issued an order denying, without
prejudice, authorization of the proposed sale stating the applicants failed to demonstrate the proposed transaction will
not have adverse effect on rates. In January 2023, the Company and Liberty entered into an amendment to the SPA that
specified the applicants will submit a new filing for approval under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act. The new
filing was submitted to the FERC on February 14, 2023. Management believes it is probable that FERC authorization
under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act will be received and closing will
129
occur in 2023. Therefore, the assets and liabilities of KPCO and KTCo will continue to be classified as held for sale as
of December 31, 2022.
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the classification of the assets
and liabilities of KPCo and KTCo is a critical audit matter are the significant judgment by management in determining
the classification of the assets and liabilities as held for sale, and in assessing the impact of regulatory orders and other
relevant evidence; this in turn led to a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity and effort in performing procedures
and evaluating audit evidence related to the probability that a sale of the assets and liabilities of KPCO and KTCo will
occur resulting in held for sale classification as of December 31, 2022.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our
overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls
relating to management's determination of the classification of the assets and liabilities of KPCo and KTCo as held for
sale. These procedures also included, among others, evaluating management’s determination of the classification of
KPCo and KTCo as held for sale which involved i) evaluating the reasonableness of management's assessment of
probability of the sale to occur resulting in held for sale classification as of the balance sheet date ii) evaluating the
commitment of both parties to the sale as supported by public statements and other representations, iii) evaluating
guidance in applicable regulatory orders and other regulatory correspondence, iv) consideration of relevant regulatory
and legal precedents, and v) reviewing written agreements in place between the parties related to the sale.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Columbus, Ohio
February 23, 2023
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2017.
130
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
The management of American Electric Power Company, Inc. and Subsidiary Companies (AEP) is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f)
and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  AEP’s internal control is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.
Management assessed the effectiveness of AEP’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022.  In
making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013).  Based on management’s
assessment, management concluded AEP’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31,
2022.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, AEP’s independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on the
effectiveness of AEP’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022.  The Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm appears on the previous page.
131
AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
 (in millions, except per-share and share amounts)
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
REVENUES
Vertically Integrated Utilities $ 11,292.8 $ 9,852.2 $ 8,753.2 
Transmission and Distribution Utilities 5,489.6 4,464.1 4,238.7 
Generation & Marketing 2,448.9 2,108.3 1,621.0 
Other Revenues 408.2 367.4 305.6 
TOTAL REVENUES 19,639.5 16,792.0 14,918.5 
EXPENSES
Purchased Electricity, Fuel and Other Consumables Used for Electric Generation 7,097.9 5,466.3 4,369.7 
Other Operation 2,878.1 2,547.7 2,572.4 
Maintenance 1,249.4 1,121.8 1,010.4 
Loss on the Expected Sale of the Kentucky Operations 363.3 — — 
Asset Impairments and Other Related Charges 48.8 11.6 — 
Establishment of 2017-2019 Virginia Triennial Review Regulatory Asset (37.0) — — 
Gain on Sale of Mineral Rights (116.3) — — 
Depreciation and Amortization 3,202.8 2,825.7 2,682.8 
Taxes Other Than Income Taxes 1,469.8 1,407.6 1,295.5 
TOTAL EXPENSES 16,156.8 13,380.7 11,930.8 
OPERATING INCOME 3,482.7 3,411.3 2,987.7 
Other Income (Expense):
Other Income 11.6 41.4 57.0 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction 133.7 139.7 148.1 
Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost 188.5 118.6 119.0 
Interest Expense (1,396.1) (1,199.1) (1,165.7)
INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAX EXPENSE AND EQUITY EARNINGS (LOSS) 2,420.4 2,511.9 2,146.1 
Income Tax Expense 5.4 115.5 40.5 
Equity Earnings (Loss) of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries (109.4) 91.7 91.1 
NET INCOME 2,305.6 2,488.1 2,196.7 
Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests (1.6) — (3.4)
EARNINGS ATTRIBUTABLE TO AEP COMMON SHAREHOLDERS $ 2,307.2 $ 2,488.1 $ 2,200.1 
WEIGHTED AVERAGE NUMBER OF BASIC AEP COMMON SHARES OUTSTANDING 511,841,946 500,522,177 495,718,223 
TOTAL BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE ATTRIBUTABLE TO AEP COMMON
SHAREHOLDERS $ 4.51 $ 4.97 $ 4.44 
WEIGHTED AVERAGE NUMBER OF DILUTED AEP COMMON SHARES OUTSTANDING 513,484,609 501,784,032 497,226,867 
TOTAL DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE ATTRIBUTABLE TO AEP COMMON
SHAREHOLDERS $ 4.49 $ 4.96 $ 4.42 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
132
AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
Net Income $ 2,305.6 $ 2,488.1 $ 2,196.7 
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS), NET OF TAXES
Cash Flow Hedges, Net of Tax of $21.6, $66.6 and $1.8 in 2022, 2021 and 2020,
Respectively 81.4 250.5 6.9 
Amortization of Pension and OPEB Deferred Costs, Net of Tax of $(2.8), $(2.2) and
$(1.9) in 2022, 2021 and 2020, Respectively (10.4) (8.1) (7.0)
Pension and OPEB Funded Status, Net of Tax of $(41.3), $7.3 and $16.7 in 2022,
2021 and 2020, Respectively (155.4) 27.5 62.7 
Reclassifications of KPCo Pension and OPEB Regulatory Assets, Net of Tax of
$(4.4), $0 and $0 in 2022, 2021 and 2020, Respectively (16.7) — — 
TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) (101.1) 269.9 62.6 
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 2,204.5 2,758.0 2,259.3 
Total Comprehensive Loss Attributable To Noncontrolling Interests (1.6) — (3.4)
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO AEP COMMON
SHAREHOLDERS $ 2,206.1 $ 2,758.0 $ 2,262.7 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
133
AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
AEP Common Shareholders
Common Stock Accumulated
Other
Comprehensive
Income (Loss) Shares AmountPaid-in
CapitalRetained
EarningsNoncontrolling
Interests Total
TOTAL EQUITY – DECEMBER 31, 2019 514.4 $3,343.4 $6,535.6 $9,900.9 $ (147.7)$ 281.0 $19,913.2 
Issuance of Common Stock 2.4 15.9 139.1 155.0 
Common Stock Dividends (1,415.0)(a) (9.9) (1,424.9)
Other Changes in Equity (85.8)(b) (0.4) (86.2)
ASU 2016-13 Adoption 1.8 1.8 
Acquisition of Incremental Interest in Santa
Rita East (43.7) (43.7)
Net Income (Loss) 2,200.1 (3.4) 2,196.7 
Other Comprehensive Income 62.6 62.6 
TOTAL EQUITY – DECEMBER 31, 2020 516.8 3,359.3 6,588.9 10,687.8 (85.1) 223.6 20,774.5 
Issuance of Common Stock 7.6 49.4 551.1 600.5 
Common Stock Dividends (1,507.7)(a) (11.8) (1,519.5)
Other Changes in Equity 32.6 (1.1) 16.3 47.8 
Acquisition of Dry Lake Solar Project 18.9 18.9 
Net Income 2,488.1 — 2,488.1 
Other Comprehensive Income 269.9 269.9 
TOTAL EQUITY – DECEMBER 31, 2021 524.4 3,408.7 7,172.6 11,667.1 184.8 247.0 22,680.2 
Issuance of Common Stock 0.7 4.4 822.1 826.5 
Common Stock Dividends (1,628.7)(a) (16.5) (1,645.2)
Other Changes in Equity 56.3 0.1 56.4 
Net Income (Loss) 2,307.2 (1.6) 2,305.6 
Other Comprehensive Loss (101.1) (101.1)
TOTAL EQUITY – DECEMBER 31, 2022 525.1 $3,413.1 $8,051.0 $12,345.6 $ 83.7 $ 229.0 $24,122.4 
(a)    Cash dividends declared per AEP common share were $3.17, $3.00 and $2.84 for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
(b)    Includes $(121) million related to a forward equity purchase contract associated with the issuance of Equity Units. See “Equity Units” section of Note 14 for
additional information.
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
134
AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
ASSETS
December 31, 2022 and 2021
(in millions)
December 31,
2022 2021
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 509.4 $ 403.4 
Restricted Cash
(December 31, 2022 and 2021 Amounts Include $47.1 and $48, Respectively, Related to Transition Funding,
Restoration Funding, Appalachian Consumer Rate Relief Funding and Santa Rita East) 47.1 48.0 
Other Temporary Investments
(December 31, 2022 and 2021 Amounts Include $182.9 and $214.8, Respectively, Related to EIS and Transource
Energy) 187.5 220.4 
Accounts Receivable:
Customers 1,081.5 720.9 
Accrued Unbilled Revenues 287.9 204.4 
Pledged Accounts Receivable – AEP Credit 1,207.4 1,038.0 
Miscellaneous 49.6 33.9 
Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts (56.1) (55.6)
Total Accounts Receivable 2,570.3 1,941.6 
Fuel 413.2 307.9 
Materials and Supplies 888.9 681.3 
Risk Management Assets 340.4 194.4 
Accrued Tax Benefits 99.4 121.5 
Regulatory Asset for Under-Recovered Fuel Costs 1,286.8 647.8 
Margin Deposits 81.9 193.4 
Assets Held for Sale 2,823.5 2,919.7 
Prepayments and Other Current Assets 170.3 129.8 
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 9,418.7 7,809.2 
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Electric:
Generation 24,597.7 23,088.1 
Transmission 32,312.9 29,911.1 
Distribution 26,077.2 24,440.0 
Other Property, Plant and Equipment (Including Coal Mining and Nuclear Fuel) 6,142.1 5,682.9 
Construction Work in Progress 4,664.1 3,684.3 
Total Property, Plant and Equipment 93,794.0 86,806.4 
Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization 22,511.1 20,805.1 
TOTAL PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT – NET 71,282.9 66,001.3 
OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS
Regulatory Assets 4,281.2 4,142.3 
Securitized Assets 446.0 552.8 
Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Trusts 3,341.2 3,867.0 
Goodwill 52.5 52.5 
Long-term Risk Management Assets 284.1 267.0 
Operating Lease Assets 645.0 578.3 
Deferred Charges and Other Noncurrent Assets 3,717.8 4,398.3 
TOTAL OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS 12,767.8 13,858.2 
TOTAL ASSETS $ 93,469.4 $ 87,668.7 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
135
AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
December 31, 2022 and 2021
(dollars in millions)
December 31,
2022 2021
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable $ 2,613.0 $ 2,054.6 
Short-term Debt:
Securitized Debt for Receivables – AEP Credit 750.0 750.0 
Other Short-term Debt 3,362.2 1,864.0 
Total Short-term Debt 4,112.2 2,614.0 
Long-term Debt Due Within One Year
(December 31, 2022 and 2021 Amounts Include $218.2 and $190.5, Respectively, Related to Sabine, DCC
Fuel, Transition Funding, Restoration Funding, Appalachian Consumer Rate Relief Funding and Transource
Energy) 1,996.4 2,153.8 
Risk Management Liabilities 145.2 75.4 
Customer Deposits 370.0 321.6 
Accrued Taxes 1,672.8 1,586.4 
Accrued Interest 327.6 273.2 
Obligations Under Operating Leases 113.4 97.6 
Liabilities Held for Sale 1,955.7 1,880.9 
Other Current Liabilities 1,261.1 1,369.2 
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 14,567.4 12,426.7 
NONCURRENT LIABILITIES
Long-term Debt
(December 31, 2022 and 2021 Amounts Include $755.3 and $840.5, Respectively, Related to Sabine, DCC
Fuel, Transition Funding, Restoration Funding, Appalachian Consumer Rate Relief Funding and Transource
Energy) 33,626.2 31,300.7 
Long-term Risk Management Liabilities 345.3 230.3 
Deferred Income Taxes 8,493.3 8,202.5 
Regulatory Liabilities and Deferred Investment Tax Credits 7,999.6 8,686.3 
Asset Retirement Obligations 2,860.8 2,676.2 
Employee Benefits and Pension Obligations 257.3 328.4 
Obligations Under Operating Leases 552.1 492.8 
Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities 599.1 601.3 
TOTAL NONCURRENT LIABILITIES 54,733.7 52,518.5 
TOTAL LIABILITIES 69,301.1 64,945.2 
Rate Matters (Note 4)
Commitments and Contingencies (Note 6)
MEZZANINE EQUITY
Contingently Redeemable Performance Share Awards 45.9 43.3 
TOTAL MEZZANINE EQUITY 45.9 43.3 
EQUITY
Common Stock – Par Value – $6.50 Per Share:
2022 2021
Shares Authorized 600,000,000 600,000,000
Shares Issued 525,099,321 524,416,175
(11,233,240 and 20,204,160 Shares were Held in Treasury as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, Respectively) 3,413.1 3,408.7 
Paid-in Capital 8,051.0 7,172.6 
Retained Earnings 12,345.6 11,667.1 
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 83.7 184.8 
TOTAL AEP COMMON SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 23,893.4 22,433.2 
Noncontrolling Interests 229.0 247.0 
TOTAL EQUITY 24,122.4 22,680.2 
TOTAL LIABILITIES, MEZZANINE EQUITY AND EQUITY $ 93,469.4 $ 87,668.7 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
136
AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net Income $ 2,305.6 $ 2,488.1 $ 2,196.7 
Adjustments to Reconcile Net Income to Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities:
Depreciation and Amortization 3,202.8 2,825.7 2,682.8 
Rockport Plant, Unit 2 Lease Amortization — 135.4 136.5 
Deferred Income Taxes (137.2) 107.6 196.1 
Loss on the Expected Sale of the Kentucky Operations 363.3 — — 
Asset Impairments and Other Related Charges 48.8 11.6 — 
Impairment of Equity Method Investment 188.0 — — 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction (133.7) (139.7) (148.1)
Mark-to-Market of Risk Management Contracts 15.5 112.3 66.5 
Amortization of Nuclear Fuel 82.9 85.3 87.5 
Pension Contributions to Qualified Plan Trust — — (110.3)
Property Taxes (41.2) (68.0) (43.3)
Deferred Fuel Over/Under-Recovery, Net (319.2) (1,647.9) (31.8)
Gain on Sale of Mineral Rights (116.3) — — 
Establishment of 2017-2019 Virginia Triennial Review Regulatory Asset (37.0) — — 
Change in Regulatory Assets (46.7) (238.9) (337.9)
Change in Other Noncurrent Assets (187.7) (126.6) (151.0)
Change in Other Noncurrent Liabilities 337.8 206.4 (54.5)
Changes in Certain Components of Working Capital:
Accounts Receivable, Net (681.7) (119.7) (129.3)
Fuel, Materials and Supplies (313.9) 300.2 (142.9)
Accounts Payable 489.2 200.6 (35.3)
Accrued Taxes, Net 105.4 218.7 20.1 
Rockport Plant, Unit 2 Operating Lease Payments — (147.7) (147.7)
Other Current Assets 109.0 (151.3) 34.3 
Other Current Liabilities 54.3 (212.2) (255.5)
Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities 5,288.0 3,839.9 3,832.9 
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Construction Expenditures (6,671.7) (5,659.6) (6,246.3)
Purchases of Investment Securities (2,784.2) (1,955.1) (1,678.8)
Sales of Investment Securities 2,743.8 1,901.4 1,644.3 
Acquisitions of Nuclear Fuel (100.7) (104.5) (69.7)
Acquisition of the Dry Lake Solar Project — (114.4) — 
Acquisition of the North Central Wind Energy Facilities (1,207.3) (652.8) — 
Proceeds from Sales of Assets 218.0 118.9 71.1 
Other Investing Activities 50.3 32.2 45.5 
Net Cash Flows Used for Investing Activities (7,751.8) (6,433.9) (6,233.9)
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Issuance of Common Stock, Net 826.5 600.5 155.0 
Issuance of Long-term Debt 4,649.7 6,486.3 5,626.1 
Issuance of Short-term Debt with Original Maturities greater than 90 Days 833.9 1,393.3 1,396.5 
Change in Short-term Debt with Original Maturities less than 90 Day, Net 1,650.4 (487.3) (448.4)
Retirement of Long-term Debt (2,345.4) (2,989.3) (1,339.8)
Redemption of Short-term Debt with Original Maturities greater than 90 Days (986.1) (771.3) (1,307.1)
Principal Payments for Finance Lease Obligations (309.5) (64.0) (61.7)
Dividends Paid on Common Stock (1,645.2) (1,519.5) (1,424.9)
Redemption of Noncontrolling Interests — — (100.2)
Other Financing Activities (105.4) (41.6) (88.8)
Net Cash Flows from Financing Activities 2,568.9 2,607.1 2,406.7 
Net Increase in Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash 105.1 13.1 5.7 
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash at Beginning of Period 451.4 438.3 432.6 
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash at End of Period $ 556.5 $ 451.4 $ 438.3 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
137
AEP TEXAS INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES
138
AEP TEXAS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
MANAGEMENT’S NARRATIVE DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
KWh Sales/Degree Days
Summary of KWh Energy Sales
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions of KWhs)
Retail:
Residential 13,049 12,284 12,163 
Commercial 11,435 10,477 10,065 
Industrial 11,347 9,598 9,085 
Miscellaneous 643 625 636 
Total Retail 36,474 32,984 31,949 
Heating degree days and cooling degree days are metrics commonly used in the utility industry as a measure of the
impact of weather on revenues.
Summary of Heating and Cooling Degree Days
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in degree days)
Actual – Heating (a) 450 341 189 
Normal – Heating (b) 312 310 313 
Actual – Cooling (c) 2,984 2,653 2,846 
Normal – Cooling (b) 2,714 2,712 2,711 
(a)Heating degree days are calculated on a 55 degree temperature base.
(b)Normal Heating/Cooling represents the thirty-year average of degree days.
(c)Cooling degree days are calculated on a 70 degree temperature base.
139
2022 Compared to 2021
AEP Texas Inc. and Subsidiaries
Reconciliation of Year Ended December 31, 2021 to Year Ended December 31, 2022
Net Income
(in millions)
Year Ended December 31, 2021 $ 289.8 
Changes in Revenues:
Retail Revenues 184.3 
Transmission Revenues 66.3 
Other Revenues 2.4 
Total Change in Revenues 253.0 
Changes in Expenses and Other:
Other Operation and Maintenance (112.0)
Depreciation and Amortization (65.4)
Taxes Other Than Income Taxes (2.4)
Interest Income 2.8 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction (1.8)
Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost 5.6 
Interest Expense (32.2)
Total Change in Expenses and Other (205.4)
Income Tax Expense (29.5)
Year Ended December 31, 2022 $ 307.9 
The major components of the increase in revenues were as follows:
•Retail Revenues increased $184 million primarily due to the following:
•A $72 million increase due to interim rate increases driven by increased transmission investment.
•A $33 million increase in interim rate due to increased distribution investment.
•A $30 million increase due to prior year refunds of Excess ADIT to customers. This increase was partially
offset in Income Tax Expense below.
•A $23 million increase in weather-related usage primarily due to a 12% increase in cooling degree days and a
32% increase in heating degree days.
•A $19 million increase in revenue from rate riders. This increase was partially offset in other expense items
below.
•An $8 million increase in weather-normalized revenues in all retail classes.
•Transmission Revenues increased $66 million primarily due to the following:
•A $59 million increase due to interim rate increases driven by increased transmission investment.
•A $7 million increase due to prior year refunds to customers associated with the last base rate case. This
impact was offset in Other Revenues below.
140
•Other Revenues increased $2 million primarily due to the following:
•A $26 million increase primarily due to securitization revenues driven by the AEP Texas Central Transition
Funding II LLC bonds that matured in July 2020 and final refunds that were completed in 2021. This increase
was offset in Depreciation and Amortization expenses and Interest Expense below.
This increase was partially offset by:
•A $12 million decrease due to the prior year amortization of a provision for refund recorded associated with
the last base rate case. This decrease was offset in Retail Revenues and Transmission Revenues above.
•A $7 million decrease in energy efficiency revenues.
•A $4 million decrease in pole attachment revenue primarily due to provision for refund.
Expenses and Other and Income Tax Expense changed between years as follows:
•Other Operation and Maintenance expenses increased $112 million primarily due to the following:
•A $76 million increase in ERCOT transmission expenses. This increase was partially offset in Retail Revenues
and Transmission Revenues above.
•An $11 million increase in distribution-related expenses.
•A $10 million increase due to a charitable contribution to the AEP Foundation.
•A $7 million increase in employee-related expenses.
•A $5 million increase in vegetation management expenses.
•Depreciation and Amortization expenses increased $65 million primarily due to the following:
•A $29 million increase due to a higher depreciable base.
•A $27 million increase in securitization amortizations primarily due to prior year AEP Texas Central
Transition Funding II LLC bonds that matured in July 2020 and final refunds that were completed in 2021.
This increase was offset in Other Revenues above.
•A $7 million increase in recoverable advanced metering system depreciable expenses.
•Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost decreased $6 million primarily due to an increase
in discount rates, an increase in the expected return on plan assets and favorable plan returns in 2021.
•Interest Expense increased $32 million primarily due to higher long-term debt balances and higher interest rates.
•Income Tax Expense increased $30 million primarily due to a decrease in amortization of Excess ADIT and an
increase in pretax book income. The decrease in amortization of Excess ADIT was partially offset in Retail
Revenues above.
141
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Shareholder of
AEP Texas Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AEP Texas Inc and its subsidiaries (the “Company”)
as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income (loss),
of changes in common shareholder’s equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 2022, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our
opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the
Company as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2022 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America.
Basis for Opinion
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the Company’s consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting
firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be
independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules
and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. The Company is not
required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. As part of
our audits we are required to obtain an understanding of internal control over financial reporting but not for the purpose
of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly,
we express no such opinion.
Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial
statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures
included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial
statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated
financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relates
to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (ii) involved our especially
challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way
our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical
audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it
relates.
142
Accounting for the Effects of Cost-Based Regulation
As described in Notes 1 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company's consolidated financial statements
reflect the actions of regulators that result in the recognition of certain revenues and expenses in different time periods
than enterprises that are not rate-regulated. As of December 31, 2022, there were $298 million of deferred costs
included in regulatory assets, $67 million of which were pending final regulatory approval, and $1,260 million of
regulatory liabilities awaiting potential refund or future rate reduction, $15 million of which were pending final
regulatory determination. Regulatory assets (deferred expenses) and regulatory liabilities (deferred future revenue
reductions or refunds) are recorded to reflect the economic effects of regulation in the same accounting period by
matching expenses with their recovery through regulated revenues and matching income with its passage to customers
in cost-based regulated rates. Management reviews the probability of recovery of regulatory assets and refund of
regulatory liabilities at each balance sheet date and whenever new events occur, such as changes in the regulatory
environment, issuance of regulatory commission orders, or passage of new legislation.
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the accounting for the effects
of cost-based regulation is a critical audit matter are the significant judgment by management in the ongoing evaluation
of the recovery of regulatory assets and refund of regulatory liabilities, and in applying guidance contained in rate
orders and other relevant evidence; this in turn led to a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity and effort in
performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence related to the probability of recovery of regulatory assets and
refund of regulatory liabilities.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our
overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls
relating to management's evaluation of new events, such as changes in the regulatory environment, issuance of
regulatory commission orders, or passage of new legislation, including the probability of recovery of regulatory assets
and refund of regulatory liabilities. These procedures also included, among others, evaluating the reasonableness of
management's assessment of probability of future recovery for regulatory assets and refund of regulatory liabilities.
Testing of regulatory assets and liabilities, involved evaluating the provisions and formulas outlined in rate orders, other
regulatory correspondence, application of relevant regulatory precedents, and other relevant evidence.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Columbus, Ohio
February 23, 2023
We have served as the Company's auditor since 2017.
143
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
The management of AEP Texas Inc. and Subsidiaries (AEP Texas) is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  AEP Texas’ internal control is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls
may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.
Management assessed the effectiveness of AEP Texas’ internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2022.  In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013).  Based on
management’s assessment, management concluded AEP Texas’ internal control over financial reporting was effective as
of December 31, 2022.
This annual report does not include an audit report from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, AEP Texas’ registered public
accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting pursuant to the Securities and Exchange
Commission rules that permit AEP Texas to provide only management’s report in this annual report.
144
AEP TEXAS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
Years Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
REVENUES   
Electric Transmission and Distribution $ 1,839.7 $ 1,586.4 $ 1,524.9 
Sales to AEP Affiliates 3.5 3.9 90.8 
Other Revenues 3.6 3.5 3.2 
TOTAL REVENUES 1,846.8 1,593.8 1,618.9 
 
EXPENSES    
Fuel and Other Consumables Used for Electric Generation — — 13.7 
Other Operation 594.2 489.5 488.9 
Maintenance 93.5 86.2 80.5 
Depreciation and Amortization 452.4 387.0 529.8 
Taxes Other Than Income Taxes 157.5 155.1 136.4 
TOTAL EXPENSES 1,297.6 1,117.8 1,249.3 
 
OPERATING INCOME 549.2 476.0 369.6 
 
Other Income (Expense):    
Interest Income 3.6 0.8 1.4 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction 19.7 21.5 19.4 
Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost 16.7 11.1 11.2 
Interest Expense (208.7) (176.5) (171.8)
 
INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAX EXPENSE (BENEFIT) 380.5 332.9 229.8 
 
Income Tax Expense (Benefit) 72.6 43.1 (11.2)
NET INCOME $ 307.9 $ 289.8 $ 241.0 
The common stock of AEP Texas is wholly-owned by Parent.
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
145
AEP TEXAS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
  Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
Net Income $ 307.9 $ 289.8 $ 241.0 
 
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS), NET OF TAXES    
Cash Flow Hedges, Net of Tax of $0.3, $0.3 and $0.3 in 2022, 2021 and 2020,
Respectively 1.0 1.0 1.1 
Amortization of Pension and OPEB Deferred Costs, Net of Tax of $0, $0 and
$0 in 2022, 2021 and 2020, Respectively 0.1 0.2 0.2 
Pension and OPEB Funded Status, Net of Tax of $(0.9), $0.3 and $0.7 in 2022,
2021 and 2020, Respectively (3.2) 1.2 2.6 
TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) (2.1) 2.4 3.9 
 
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME $ 305.8 $ 292.2 $ 244.9 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
146
AEP TEXAS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
Paid-in
CapitalRetained
EarningsAccumulated
Other
Comprehensive
Income (Loss) Total
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY –
DECEMBER 31, 2019 $ 1,457.9 $ 1,516.0 $ (12.8)$ 2,961.1 
Net Income 241.0 241.0 
Other Comprehensive Income 3.9 3.9 
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY –
DECEMBER 31, 2020 1,457.9 1,757.0 (8.9) 3,206.0 
    
Capital Contribution from Parent 96.0 96.0 
Net Income 289.8 289.8 
Other Comprehensive Income 2.4 2.4 
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY –
DECEMBER 31, 2021 1,553.9 2,046.8 (6.5) 3,594.2 
Capital Contribution from Parent 4.3 4.3 
Net Income 307.9 307.9 
Other Comprehensive Loss (2.1) (2.1)
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY –
DECEMBER 31, 2022 $ 1,558.2 $ 2,354.7 $ (8.6)$ 3,904.3 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
147
AEP TEXAS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
ASSETS
December 31, 2022 and 2021
(in millions)
December 31,
 2022 2021
CURRENT ASSETS   
Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 0.1 $ 0.1 
Restricted Cash
(December 31, 2022 and 2021 Amounts Include $32.7 and $30.4, Respectively, Related to
Transition Funding and Restoration Funding) 32.7 30.4 
Advances to Affiliates 6.9 6.9 
Accounts Receivable:   
Customers 150.9 123.4 
Affiliated Companies 11.9 7.9 
Accrued Unbilled Revenues 91.4 77.9 
Miscellaneous 0.2 — 
Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts (4.2) (4.0)
Total Accounts Receivable 250.2 205.2 
Materials and Supplies 138.8 73.9 
Accrued Tax Benefits 12.2 24.8 
Prepayments and Other Current Assets 6.0 5.9 
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 446.9 347.2 
 
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT   
Electric:   
Transmission 6,301.5 5,849.9 
Distribution 5,312.8 4,917.2 
Other Property, Plant and Equipment 1,022.8 961.1 
Construction Work in Progress 805.2 551.3 
Total Property, Plant and Equipment 13,442.3 12,279.5 
Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization 1,760.7 1,644.1 
TOTAL PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT – NET 11,681.6 10,635.4 
 
OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS   
Regulatory Assets 298.3 275.2 
Securitized Assets
(December 31, 2022 and 2021 Amounts Include $286.4 and $367.6, Respectively, Related
to Transition Funding and Restoration Funding) 286.4 367.6 
Deferred Charges and Other Noncurrent Assets 179.0 211.3 
TOTAL OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS 763.7 854.1 
TOTAL ASSETS $ 12,892.2 $ 11,836.7 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
148
AEP TEXAS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
LIABILITIES AND COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY
December 31, 2022 and 2021
(in millions)
December 31,
  2022  2021
CURRENT LIABILITIES   
Advances from Affiliates $ 96.5 $ 26.9 
Accounts Payable:
General 331.0 306.3 
Affiliated Companies 34.7 32.5 
Long-term Debt Due Within One Year – Nonaffiliated
(December 31, 2022 and 2021 Amounts Include $93.5 and $91, Respectively, Related to
Transition Funding and Restoration Funding) 278.5 716.0 
Accrued Taxes 95.5 93.3 
Accrued Interest
(December 31, 2022 and 2021 Amounts Include $2.2 and $2.3, Respectively, Related to
Transition Funding and Restoration Funding) 48.3 44.7 
Obligations Under Operating Leases 28.6 14.0 
Other Current Liabilities 130.7 78.0 
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 1,043.8 1,311.7 
NONCURRENT LIABILITIES  
Long-term Debt – Nonaffiliated
(December 31, 2022 and 2021 Amounts Include $221 and $313.7, Respectively, Related to
Transition Funding and Restoration Funding) 5,379.3 4,464.8 
Deferred Income Taxes 1,144.2 1,088.9 
Regulatory Liabilities and Deferred Investment Tax Credits 1,259.6 1,242.0 
Obligations Under Operating Leases 67.8 61.3 
Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities 93.2 73.8 
TOTAL NONCURRENT LIABILITIES 7,944.1 6,930.8 
TOTAL LIABILITIES 8,987.9 8,242.5 
Rate Matters (Note 4)
Commitments and Contingencies (Note 6)  
  
COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY    
Paid-in Capital  1,558.2 1,553.9 
Retained Earnings  2,354.7 2,046.8 
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (8.6) (6.5)
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY  3,904.3 3,594.2 
  
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND COMMON SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY  $ 12,892.2 $ 11,836.7 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
149
AEP TEXAS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
 Years Ended December  31,
  2022 2021 2020
OPERA TING ACTIVITIES    
Net Income  $ 307.9  $ 289.8  $ 241.0  
Adjustments to Reconcile Net Income to Net Cash Flows fr om Operating Activities:  
Depreciation and Amortization  452.4  387.0  529.8  
Deferred Income Taxes  42.2 43.0 (15.2)
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction (19.7) (21.5) (19.4)
Pension Contributions to Qualified Plan Trust — — (11.3)
Change in Other Noncurrent Assets  (36.2) (78.2) (74.0)
Change in Other Noncurrent Liabilities  57.6 26.4 (24.7)
Changes in Certain Components of Working Capital:  
Accounts Receivable, Net  (45.0) (21.6) 9.8 
Fuel, Materials and Supplies  (64.9) (3.9) (7.4)
Accounts Payable  25.0 8.9 30.2 
Accrued Taxes, Net 14.8 7.0 42.7 
Other Current Assets  2.2 (0.9) 0.8 
Other Current Liabilities  (4.4) (39.4) (88.1)
Net Cash Flows fr om Operating Activities  731.9  596.6  614.2  
 
INVESTING ACTIVITIES  
Construction Expenditures (1,305.0 ) (1,033.3 ) (1,295.0 )
Change in Advances to Affiliates, Net  — 0.2 200.1  
Other Investing Activities 35.1 32.3 29.5 
Net Cash Flows Used for  Investing Activities  (1,269.9 ) (1,000.8 ) (1,065.4 )
 
FINANCING ACTIVITIES  
Capital Contribution from Parent 4.3 96.0 — 
Issuance of Long-term Debt – Nonaf filiated 1,188.6  444.2  652.7  
Change in Advances from Affiliates, Net  69.6 (40.2) 67.1 
Retirement of Long-term Debt – Nonaf filiated  (716.0 ) (88.7) (392.1 )
Principal Payments for Finance Lease Obligations  (6.8) (6.7) (6.3)
Other Financing Activities 0.6 1.3 0.8 
Net Cash Flows fr om Financing Activities  540.3  405.9  322.2  
Net Incr ease (Decr ease) in Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash 2.3 1.7 (129.0 )
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash at Beginning of Period 30.5 28.8 157.8  
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash at End of Period $ 32.8 $ 30.5 $ 28.8 
 
SUPPLEMENT ARY INFORMA TION  
Cash Paid for Interest, Net of Capitalized Amounts  $ 198.9  $ 168.9  $ 153.2  
Net Cash Paid (Received) for Income Taxes  11.0 5.7 (42.9)
Noncash Acquisitions Under Finance Leases  6.1 4.4 5.6 
Construction Expenditures Included in Current Liabilities as of December 31,  235.4  230.0  177.8  
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
150
AEP TRANSMISSION COMPANY, LLC
AND SUBSIDIARIES
151
AEP TRANSMISSION COMPANY, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES
MANAGEMENT’S NARRATIVE DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Summary of Investment in Transmission Assets for AEPTCo
As of December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Plant In Service $ 12,635.1 $ 11,313.7 $ 9,923.0 
CWIP 1,547.1 1,394.8 1,422.6 
Accumulated Depreciation 1,012.1 772.8 572.8 
Total Transmission Property, Net$ 13,170.1 $ 11,935.7 $ 10,772.8 
2022 Compared to 2021
AEP Transmission Company, LLC and Subsidiaries
Reconciliation of Year Ended December 31, 2021 to Year Ended December 31, 2022
Net Income
(in millions)
Year Ended December 31, 2021 $ 591.7 
Changes in Transmission Revenues:
Transmission Revenues 155.2 
Total Change in Transmission Revenues 155.2 
Changes in Expenses and Other:
Other Operation and Maintenance (29.6)
Depreciation and Amortization (48.9)
Taxes Other Than Income Taxes (32.3)
Interest Income - Affiliated 1.1 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction 3.5 
Interest Expense (21.5)
Total Change in Expenses and Other (127.7)
Income Tax Expense (25.0)
Year Ended December 31, 2022 $ 594.2 
The major components of the increase in transmission revenues, which consists of wholesale sales to affiliates and
nonaffiliates were as follows:
•Transmission Revenues increased $155 million primarily due to the following:
•A $185 million increase due to continued investment in transmission assets.
This increase was partially offset by:
•A $14 million decrease due to affiliated transmission formula rate true-up activity. This decrease was offset in
Other Operation and Maintenance expense across the other Registrant Subsidiaries.
•A $5 million decrease due to non-affiliated transmission formula rate true-up activity.
Expenses and Other and Income Tax Expense changed between years as follows:
•Other Operation and Maintenance expenses increased $30 million primarily due to:
•An $11 million increase due to a charitable contribution to the AEP Foundation.
•A $9 million increase in employee-related expenses.
•A $5 million increase due to cancelled capital projects.
152
•Depreciation and Amortization expenses increased $49 million primarily due to a higher depreciable base.
•Taxes Other Than Income Taxes increased $32 million primarily due to higher property taxes as a result of
increased transmission investment.
•Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction increased $4 million primarily due to higher CWIP.
•Interest Expense increased $22 million primarily due to higher long-term debt balances.
•Income Tax Expense increased $25 million primarily due to the following:
•An $18 million increase due to a current year change in the accounting policy for the parent company loss
benefit.
•A $6 million increase due to an increase in pretax book income.
153
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Member of
AEP Transmission Company, LLC
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AEP Transmission Company, LLC and its
subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 and the related consolidated statements of income, of
changes in member's equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022,
including the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2)
(collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2022 and
2021, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2022 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Basis for Opinion
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the Company’s consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting
firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be
independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules
and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. The Company is not
required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. As part of
our audits we are required to obtain an understanding of internal control over financial reporting but not for the purpose
of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly,
we express no such opinion.
Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial
statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures
included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial
statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the consolidated
financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relate
to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (ii) involved our especially
challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way
our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical
audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which
they relate.
154
Accounting for the Effects of Cost-Based Regulation
As described in Notes 1 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company's consolidated financial statements
reflect the actions of regulators that result in the recognition of certain revenues and expenses in different time periods
than enterprises that are not rate-regulated. As of December 31, 2022, there were $6.8 million of deferred costs
included in regulatory assets and $715 million of regulatory liabilities awaiting potential refund or future rate reduction,
$8.7 million of which were pending final regulatory determination. Regulatory assets (deferred expenses) and
regulatory liabilities (deferred future revenue reductions or refunds) are recorded to reflect the economic effects of
regulation in the same accounting period by matching expenses with their recovery through regulated revenues and
matching income with its passage to customers in cost-based regulated rates. Management reviews the probability of
recovery of regulatory assets and refund of regulatory liabilities at each balance sheet date and whenever new events
occur, such as changes in the regulatory environment, issuance of regulatory commission orders, or passage of new
legislation.
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the accounting for the effects
of cost-based regulation is a critical audit matter are the significant judgment by management in the ongoing evaluation
of the recovery of regulatory assets and refund of regulatory liabilities, and in applying guidance contained in rate
orders and other relevant evidence; this in turn led to a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity and effort in
performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence related to the probability of recovery of regulatory assets and
refund of regulatory liabilities.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our
overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls
relating to management's evaluation of new events, such as changes in the regulatory environment, issuance of
regulatory commission orders, or passage of new legislation, including the probability of recovery of regulatory assets
and refund of regulatory liabilities. These procedures also included, among others, evaluating the reasonableness of
management's assessment of probability of future recovery for regulatory assets and refund of regulatory liabilities.
Testing of regulatory assets and liabilities, involved evaluating the provisions and formulas outlined in rate orders, other
regulatory correspondence, application of relevant regulatory precedents, and other relevant evidence.
Classification of the Assets and Liabilities of KTCo as Held For Sale
As described in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, in October 2021 the Company entered into a Stock
Purchase Agreement (SPA) to sell Kentucky Power Company (KPCo) and Kentucky Transmission Company (KTCo) to
Liberty Utilities Co. (Liberty) for $2.85 billion. In September 2022, the Company and Liberty entered into an
amendment to the SPA which reduced the purchase price to approximately $2.646 billion. The sale is subject to several
regulatory approvals, including approval from the Kentucky Public Service Commission (KPSC) and from the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). In May 2022, the KPSC approved the transfer of KPCo to Liberty subject to
conditions contingent upon the closing of the sale. In December 2022, the FERC issued an order denying, without
prejudice, authorization of the proposed sale stating the applicants failed to demonstrate the proposed transaction will
not have adverse effect on rates. In January 2023, the Company and Liberty entered into an amendment to the SPA that
specified the applicants will submit a new filing for approval under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act. The new
filing was submitted to the FERC on February 14, 2023. Management believes it is probable that FERC authorization
under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act will be received and closing will occur in 2023. Therefore, the assets and
liabilities of KTCo will continue to be classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2022.
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the classification of the assets
and liabilities of KTCo is a critical audit matter are the significant judgment by management in determining the
classification of the assets and liabilities as held for sale, and in assessing the impact of regulatory orders and other
relevant evidence; this in turn led to a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity and effort in performing
155
procedures and evaluating audit evidence related to the probability that a sale of the assets and liabilities of KTCo will
occur resulting in held for sale classification as of December 31, 2022.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our
overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls
relating to management's determination of the classification of the assets and liabilities of KTCo as held for sale. These
procedures also included, among others, evaluating management’s determination of the classification of KTCo as held
for sale which involved i) evaluating the reasonableness of management's assessment of probability of the sale to occur
resulting in held for sale classification as of the balance sheet date ii) evaluating the commitment of both parties to the
sale as supported by public statements and other representations, iii) evaluating guidance in applicable regulatory
orders and other regulatory correspondence, iv) consideration of relevant regulatory and legal precedents, and v)
reviewing written agreements in place between the parties related to the sale.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Columbus, Ohio
February 23, 2023
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2017.
156
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
The management of AEP Transmission Company, LLC and Subsidiaries (AEPTCo) is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  AEPTCo’s internal control is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls
may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.
Management assessed the effectiveness of AEPTCo’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2022.  In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013).  Based on
management’s assessment, management concluded AEPTCo’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as
of December 31, 2022.
This annual report does not include an audit report from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, AEPTCo’s registered public
accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting pursuant to the Securities and Exchange
Commission rules that permit AEPTCo to provide only management’s report in this annual report.
157
AEP TRANSMISSION COMPANY, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
REVENUES
Transmission Revenues $ 354.9 $ 317.8 $ 265.4 
Sales to AEP Affiliates 1,354.5 1,171.5 954.6 
Provision for Refund – Affiliated (70.7) (17.6) (58.3)
Provision for Refund – Nonaffiliated (14.2) (2.4) (16.0)
TOTAL REVENUES 1,624.5 1,469.3 1,145.7 
EXPENSES
Other Operation 136.3 105.5 99.8 
Maintenance 17.2 18.4 10.2 
Depreciation and Amortization 346.2 297.3 249.0 
Taxes Other Than Income Taxes 271.1 238.8 205.2 
TOTAL EXPENSES 770.8 660.0 564.2 
OPERATING INCOME 853.7 809.3 581.5 
Other Income (Expense):
Interest Income - Affiliated 1.6 0.5 2.4 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction 70.7 67.2 74.0 
Interest Expense (162.7) (141.2) (127.8)
INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAX EXPENSE 763.3 735.8 530.1 
Income Tax Expense 169.1 144.1 106.7 
NET INCOME $ 594.2 $ 591.7 $ 423.4 
AEPTCo is wholly-owned by AEP Transmission Holdco.
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
158
AEP TRANSMISSION COMPANY, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN MEMBER’S EQUITY
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
Paid-in
CapitalRetained
EarningsTotal
Member’s
Equity
TOTAL MEMBER'S EQUITY - DECEMBER 31, 2019 $ 2,480.6 $ 1,528.9 $ 4,009.5 
Capital Contribution from Member 335.0 335.0 
Capital Distribution of Radial Assets to Member (50.0) (50.0)
Dividends Paid to Member (5.0) (5.0)
Net Income 423.4 423.4 
TOTAL MEMBER'S EQUITY - DECEMBER 31, 2020 2,765.6 1,947.3 4,712.9 
Capital Contribution from Member 184.0 184.0 
Dividends Paid to Member (112.5) (112.5)
Net Income 591.7 591.7 
TOTAL MEMBER'S EQUITY - DECEMBER 31, 2021 2,949.6 2,426.5 5,376.1 
Capital Contribution from Member 72.7 72.7 
Dividends Paid to Member (170.0) (170.0)
Net Income 594.2 594.2 
TOTAL MEMBER'S EQUITY - DECEMBER 31, 2022 $ 3,022.3 $ 2,850.7 $ 5,873.0 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
159
AEP TRANSMISSION COMPANY, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
ASSETS
December 31, 2022 and 2021
(in millions)
December 31,
2022 2021
CURRENT ASSETS
Advances to Affiliates $ — $ 27.2 
Accounts Receivable:
Customers 46.7 22.5 
Affiliated Companies 117.9 96.1 
Total Accounts Receivable 164.6 118.6 
Materials and Supplies 10.7 9.3 
Accrued Tax Benefits 4.2 5.6 
Assets Held for Sale 178.0 167.9 
Prepayments and Other Current Assets 3.0 2.7 
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 360.5 331.3 
TRANSMISSION PROPERTY
Transmission Property 12,183.2 10,886.3 
Other Property, Plant and Equipment 451.9 427.4 
Construction Work in Progress 1,547.1 1,394.8 
Total Transmission Property 14,182.2 12,708.5 
Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization 1,012.1 772.8 
TOTAL TRANSMISSION PROPERTY – NET 13,170.1 11,935.7 
OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS
Regulatory Assets 6.8 8.5 
Deferred Property Taxes 266.6 245.7 
Deferred Charges and Other Noncurrent Assets 10.2 3.2 
TOTAL OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS 283.6 257.4 
TOTAL ASSETS $ 13,814.2 $ 12,524.4 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
160
AEP TRANSMISSION COMPANY, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
LIABILITIES AND MEMBER’S EQUITY
December 31, 2022 and 2021
December 31,
2022 2021
(in millions)
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Advances from Affiliates $ 229.3 $ 124.0 
Accounts Payable:
General 427.0 460.1 
Affiliated Companies 81.9 69.9 
Long-term Debt Due Within One Year – Nonaffiliated 60.0 104.0 
Accrued Taxes 528.3 479.0 
Accrued Interest 28.4 28.4 
Obligations Under Operating Leases 1.3 0.9 
Liabilities Held for Sale 28.6 27.6 
Other Current Liabilities 8.4 3.0 
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 1,393.2 1,296.9 
NONCURRENT LIABILITIES
Long-term Debt – Nonaffiliated 4,722.8 4,239.9 
Deferred Income Taxes 1,040.4 962.9 
Regulatory Liabilities 715.0 644.1 
Obligations Under Operating Leases 1.5 1.3 
Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities 68.3 3.2 
TOTAL NONCURRENT LIABILITIES 6,548.0 5,851.4 
TOTAL LIABILITIES 7,941.2 7,148.3 
Rate Matters (Note 4)
Commitments and Contingencies (Note 6)
MEMBER’S EQUITY
Paid-in Capital 3,022.3 2,949.6 
Retained Earnings 2,850.7 2,426.5 
TOTAL MEMBER’S EQUITY 5,873.0 5,376.1 
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND MEMBER’S EQUITY $ 13,814.2 $ 12,524.4 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
161
AEP TRANSMISSION COMPANY, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
Years Ended December  31,
2022 2021 2020
OPERA TING ACTIVITIES
Net Income $ 594.2  $ 591.7  $ 423.4  
Adjustments to Reconcile Net Income to Net Cash Flows fr om Operating Activities:
Depreciation and Amortization 346.2  297.3  249.0  
Deferred Income Taxes 62.3 68.5 81.6 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction (70.7) (67.2) (74.0)
Property Taxes (20.9) (25.6) (26.6)
Change in Other Noncurrent Assets (7.4) 7.5 (8.2)
Change in Other Noncurrent Liabilities 68.7 3.7 8.3 
Changes in Certain Components of Working Capital:
Accounts Receivable, Net (46.3) (16.0) (19.0)
Materials and Supplies (1.4) (0.8) 5.3 
Accounts Payable 18.5 (2.2) 77.8 
Accrued Taxes, Net 50.2 67.2 62.7 
Other Current Assets (1.1) 6.0 5.4 
Other Current Liabilities 3.0 (4.4) (14.5)
Net Cash Flows fr om Operating Activities 995.3  925.7  771.2  
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Construction Expenditures (1,458.5 ) (1,424.8 ) (1,615.9 )
Change in Advances to Affiliates, Net 22.8 81.9 (23.7)
Acquisitions of Assets (9.8) (17.9) (6.0)
Other Investing Activities 6.3 1.8 5.2 
Net Cash Flows Used for  Investing Activities (1,439.2 ) (1,359.0 ) (1,640.4 )
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Capital Contribution from Member 72.7 184.0  335.0  
Issuance of Long-term Debt – Nonaf filiated 540.8  443.7  519.5  
Change in Advances from Affiliates, Net 104.4  (31.9) 19.7 
Retirement of Long-term Debt – Nonaf filiated (104.0 ) (50.0) — 
Dividends Paid to Member (170.0 ) (112.5) (5.0)
Net Cash Flows fr om Financing Activities 443.9  433.3  869.2  
Net Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents — — — 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Period — — — 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Period $ — $ — $ — 
SUPPLEMENT ARY INFORMA TION
Cash Paid for Interest, Net of Capitalized Amounts $ 158.8  $ 132.9  $ 119.7 
Net Cash Paid for Income Taxes 95.5 65.7 22.9 
Construction Expenditures Included in Current Liabilities as of December 31, 320.7  358.7  311.9 
Noncash Distribution of Radial Assets to Member — — (50.0)
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
162
APPALACHIAN POWER COMPANY
AND SUBSIDIARIES
163
APPALACHIAN POWER COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
MANAGEMENT’S NARRATIVE DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
KWh Sales/Degree Days
Summary of KWh Energy Sales
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions of KWhs)
Retail:
Residential 11,159 11,207 10,916 
Commercial 6,066 5,949 5,887 
Industrial 8,849 8,879 8,873 
Miscellaneous 843 810 794 
Total Retail 26,917 26,845 26,470 
Wholesale 1,585 4,285 3,281 
Total KWhs 28,502 31,130 29,751 
Heating degree days and cooling degree days are metrics commonly used in the utility industry as a measure of the
impact of weather on revenues.
Summary of Heating and Cooling Degree Days
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in degree days)
Actual – Heating (a) 2,182 1,969 1,764 
Normal – Heating (b) 2,209 2,210 2,216 
Actual – Cooling (c) 1,314 1,389 1,379 
Normal – Cooling (b) 1,238 1,242 1,236 
(a)Heating degree days are calculated on a 55 degree temperature base.
(b)Normal Heating/Cooling represents the thirty-year average of degree days.
(c)Cooling degree days are calculated on a 65 degree temperature base.
164
2022 Compared to 2021
Appalachian Power Company and Subsidiaries
Reconciliation of Year Ended December 31, 2021 to Year Ended December 31, 2022
Net Income
(in millions)
Year Ended December 31, 2021 $ 348.9 
Changes in Gross Margin:
Retail Margins 183.3 
Margins from Off-system Sales (4.4)
Transmission Revenues 26.2 
Other Revenues 15.6 
Total Change in Gross Margin 220.7 
Changes in Expenses and Other:
Other Operation and Maintenance (146.4)
Asset Impairments and Other Related Charges - Coal Fired Generation (24.9)
Establishment of 2017-2019 Virginia Triennial Review Regulatory Asset 37.0 
Depreciation and Amortization (29.7)
Taxes Other Than Income Taxes (4.0)
Interest Income 2.5 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction (3.9)
Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost 10.0 
Interest Expense (19.9)
Total Change in Expenses and Other (179.3)
Income Tax Expense 3.9 
Year Ended December 31, 2022 $ 394.2 
The major components of the increase in Gross Margin, defined as revenues less the related direct cost of fuel,
including consumption of chemicals and emissions allowances, and purchased electricity were as follows:
•Retail Margins increased $183 million primarily due to the following:
•A $121 million increase due to rider revenues in Virginia and West Virginia. This increase was partially
offset in other expense items below.
•A $29 million increase in weather-normalized margins primarily driven by increases in the residential and
commercial classes.
•An $18 million increase due to lower customer refunds related to Tax Reform. This increase was offset in
Income Tax Expense below.
•A $17 million increase due to a base rate increase in Virginia implemented in October 2022 following the
Virginia Supreme Court remand. This increase was partially offset in Other Operation and Maintenance
expense below.
•A $9 million increase in weather-related usage primarily driven by a 11% increase in heating degree days
partially offset by a 5% decrease in cooling degree days.
•Margins from Off-system Sales decreased $4 million due to decreased generation.
•Transmission Revenues increased $26 million primarily due to the following:
•A $17 million increase due to continued investment in transmission assets.
•A $9 million increase due to transmission formula rate true-up activity.
•Other Revenues increased $16 million primarily due to the following:
•An $8 million increase due to pole attachment revenue. This increase was partially offset in Other
Operation and Maintenance Expense below.
•A $7 million increase due to business development revenue. This increase was partially offset in Other
Operation and Maintenance Expense below.
165
Expenses and Other and Income Tax Expense changed between years as follows:
 
•Other Operation and Maintenance expenses increased $146 million primarily due to the following:
•A $75 million increase in transmission expenses primarily due to:
•A $95 million increase in recoverable PJM expenses. This increase was offset in Retail Margins above.
This increase was partially offset by:
•A $12 million decrease in vegetation management expenses.
•A $9 million decrease in transmission formula rate true-up activity. This decrease was partially offset in
Retail Margins above.
•A $33 million increase in distribution expenses primarily related to storm restoration costs.
•A $20 million increase in maintenance expenses at various generation plants.
•A $12 million increase due to a charitable contribution to the AEP Foundation.
•A $9 million increase in employee-related expenses.
•A $7 million increase due to the amortization of the regulatory asset established in the current year in
accordance with the August 2022 Virginia Supreme Court opinion related to under-earnings during the
2017-2019 Triennial Review. This increase was offset in Retail Margins above.
These increases were partially offset by:
•A $14 million decrease due to gains from the sale of land in 2022.
•Asset Impairments and Other Related Charges - Coal Fired Generation increased $25 million due to a
write-off of a regulatory asset in accordance with the August 2022 Virginia Supreme Court opinion related to
the 2017-2019 Virginia Triennial Review.
•Establishment of 2017-2019 Virginia Triennial Review Regulatory Asset increased $37 million due to the
establishment of a regulatory asset in accordance with the August 2022 Virginia Supreme Court opinion related
to under-earning during the 2017-2019 Triennial Review.
•Depreciation and Amortization expenses increased $30 million primarily due to a higher depreciable base.
•Taxes Other Than Income Taxes increased $4 million primarily due to the following:
•A $4 million increase in Virginia state minimum taxes primarily due to prior year refunds and increased
projected minimum tax liability.
•A $4 million increase in property taxes driven by additional investments in transmission and distribution
assets and higher tax rates.
These increases were partially offset by:
•A $5 million decrease due to regulatory fees that are now required to be recorded to Other Operation and
Maintenance Expense.
•Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction decreased $4 million primarily due to a lower
AFUDC base and a decrease in AFUDC equity rates.
•Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost decreased $10 million primarily due to an
increase in discount rates, an increase in the expected return on plan assets and favorable plan returns in 2021.
•Interest Expense increased $20 million primarily due to higher long-term debt balances and higher interest
rates.
•Income Tax Expense decreased $4 million primarily due to the following:
•A $10 million decrease in flow through depreciation expense.
•An $8 million decrease in state taxes.
•A $5 million decrease due to an unfavorable out of period adjustment recorded in the prior year related to
deferred income taxes.
These decreases were partially offset by:
•A $10 million decrease in amortization of Excess ADIT. This decrease was partially offset by a decrease in
Retail Margins.
•A $9 million increase due to an increase in pretax book income.
166
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Shareholder of
Appalachian Power Company
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Appalachian Power Company and its subsidiaries
(the “Company”) as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 and the related consolidated statements of income, of
comprehensive income (loss), of changes in common shareholder’s equity and of cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 2022, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated
financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its operations and its cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022 in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.
Basis for Opinion
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the Company’s consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting
firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be
independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules
and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. The Company is not
required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. As part of
our audits we are required to obtain an understanding of internal control over financial reporting but not for the purpose
of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly,
we express no such opinion.
Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial
statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures
included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial
statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated
financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relates
to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (ii) involved our especially
challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way
our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical
audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it
relates.
167
Accounting for the Effects of Cost-Based Regulation
As described in Notes 1 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company's consolidated financial statements
reflect the actions of regulators that result in the recognition of certain revenues and expenses in different time periods
than enterprises that are not rate-regulated. As of December 31, 2022, there were $1,532 million of deferred costs
included in regulatory assets, $145 million of which were pending final regulatory approval, and $1,144 million of
regulatory liabilities awaiting potential refund or future rate reduction, $31 million of which were pending final
regulatory determination. Regulatory assets (deferred expenses) and regulatory liabilities (deferred future revenue
reductions or refunds) are recorded to reflect the economic effects of regulation in the same accounting period by
matching expenses with their recovery through regulated revenues and matching income with its passage to customers
in cost-based regulated rates. Management reviews the probability of recovery of regulatory assets and refund of
regulatory liabilities at each balance sheet date and whenever new events occur, such as changes in the regulatory
environment, issuance of regulatory commission orders, or passage of new legislation.
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the accounting for the effects
of cost-based regulation is a critical audit matter are the significant judgment by management in the ongoing evaluation
of the recovery of regulatory assets and refund of regulatory liabilities, and in applying guidance contained in rate
orders and other relevant evidence; this in turn led to a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity and effort in
performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence related to the probability of recovery of regulatory assets and
refund of regulatory liabilities.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our
overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls
relating to management's evaluation of new events, such as changes in the regulatory environment, issuance of
regulatory commission orders, or passage of new legislation, including the probability of recovery of regulatory assets
and refund of regulatory liabilities. These procedures also included, among others, evaluating the reasonableness of
management's assessment of probability of future recovery for regulatory assets and refund of regulatory liabilities.
Testing of regulatory assets and liabilities, involved evaluating the provisions and formulas outlined in rate orders, other
regulatory correspondence, application of relevant regulatory precedents, and other relevant evidence.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Columbus, Ohio
February 23, 2023
We have served as the Company's auditor since 2017.
168
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
The management of Appalachian Power Company and Subsidiaries (APCo) is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  APCo’s internal control is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls
may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.
Management assessed the effectiveness of APCo’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2022.  In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013).  Based on
management’s assessment, management concluded APCo’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of
December 31, 2022.
This annual report does not include an audit report from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, APCo’s registered public
accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting pursuant to the Securities and Exchange
Commission rules that permit APCo to provide only management’s report in this annual report.
169
APPALACHIAN POWER COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
REVENUES
Electric Generation, Transmission and Distribution $ 3,245.5 $ 2,895.5 $ 2,610.9 
Sales to AEP Affiliates 256.1 197.9 174.7 
Other Revenues 18.3 11.8 10.6 
TOTAL REVENUES 3,519.9 3,105.2 2,796.2 
EXPENSES
Purchased Electricity, Fuel and Other Consumables Used for Electric
Generation 1,173.9 979.9 873.6 
Other Operation 724.1 610.0 530.5 
Maintenance 297.8 265.5 226.8 
Asset Impairments and Other Related Charges - Coal Fired Generation 24.9 — — 
Establishment of 2017-2019 Virginia Triennial Review Regulatory Asset (37.0) — — 
Re-Establishment of Regulatory Asset - Coal Fired Generation — — (49.0)
Depreciation and Amortization 575.9 546.2 507.5 
Taxes Other Than Income Taxes 158.2 154.2 150.2 
TOTAL EXPENSES 2,917.8 2,555.8 2,239.6 
OPERATING INCOME 602.1 549.4 556.6 
Other Income (Expense):
Interest Income 3.5 1.0 1.6 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction 11.7 15.6 14.6 
Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost 29.0 19.0 18.8 
Interest Expense (233.9) (214.0) (217.6)
INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAX EXPENSE 412.4 371.0 374.0 
Income Tax Expense 18.2 22.1 4.3 
NET INCOME $ 394.2 $ 348.9 $ 369.7 
The common stock of APCo is wholly-owned by Parent.
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
170
APPALACHIAN POWER COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
 (in millions)
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
Net Income $ 394.2 $ 348.9 $ 369.7 
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS), NET OF TAXES
Cash Flow Hedges, Net of Tax of $(0.2), $2.2 and $(0.5) in 2022, 2021 and
2020, Respectively (0.8) 8.3 (1.7)
Amortization of Pension and OPEB Deferred Costs, Net of Tax of $(1.1), $(1.1)
and $(1.0) in 2022, 2021 and 2020, Respectively (4.3) (4.2) (3.8)
Pension and OPEB Funded Status, Net of Tax of $(6.4), $3.5 and $2.0 in 2022,
2021 and 2020, Respectively (24.1) 13.1 7.7 
TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) (29.2) 17.2 2.2 
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME $ 365.0 $ 366.1 $ 371.9 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
171
APPALACHIAN POWER COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
Common
StockPaid-in
CapitalRetained
EarningsAccumulated
Other
Comprehensive
Income (Loss) Total
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S
EQUITY – DECEMBER 31, 2019 $ 260.4 $ 1,828.7 $ 2,078.3 $ 5.0 $ 4,172.4 
Common Stock Dividends (200.0) (200.0)
Net Income 369.7 369.7 
Other Comprehensive Income 2.2 2.2 
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S
EQUITY – DECEMBER 31, 2020 260.4 1,828.7 2,248.0 7.2 4,344.3 
Common Stock Dividends (62.5) (62.5)
Net Income 348.9 348.9 
Other Comprehensive Income 17.2 17.2 
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S
EQUITY – DECEMBER 31, 2021 260.4 1,828.7 2,534.4 24.4 4,647.9 
Common Stock Dividends (37.5) (37.5)
Net Income 394.2 394.2 
Other Comprehensive Loss (29.2) (29.2)
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S
EQUITY – DECEMBER 31, 2022 $ 260.4 $ 1,828.7 $ 2,891.1 $ (4.8)$ 4,975.4 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
172
APPALACHIAN POWER COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
ASSETS
December 31, 2022 and 2021
(in millions)
December 31,
2022 2021
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 7.5 $ 2.5 
Restricted Cash for Securitized Funding 14.4 17.6 
Advances to Affiliates 19.8 20.8 
Accounts Receivable:
Customers 168.9 158.5 
Affiliated Companies 94.0 129.9 
Accrued Unbilled Revenues 91.3 54.0 
Miscellaneous 0.3 0.2 
Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts (1.7) (1.6)
Total Accounts Receivable 352.8 341.0 
Fuel 158.9 67.1 
Materials and Supplies 130.6 109.8 
Risk Management Assets 69.1 42.0 
Regulatory Asset for Under-Recovered Fuel Costs 473.1 201.3 
Margin Deposits 7.4 71.8 
Prepayments and Other Current Assets 26.0 51.4 
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 1,259.6 925.3 
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Electric:
Generation 6,776.8 6,683.9 
Transmission 4,482.8 4,322.4 
Distribution 4,933.0 4,683.3 
Other Property, Plant and Equipment 883.3 696.6 
Construction Work in Progress 705.3 469.9 
Total Property, Plant and Equipment 17,781.2 16,856.1 
Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization 5,402.0 5,051.8 
TOTAL PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT – NET 12,379.2 11,804.3 
OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS
Regulatory Assets 1,058.6 757.6 
Securitized Assets 159.6 185.1 
Employee Benefits and Pension Assets 152.9 220.5 
Operating Lease Assets 73.6 66.9 
Deferred Charges and Other Noncurrent Assets 138.7 129.2 
TOTAL OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS 1,583.4 1,359.3 
TOTAL ASSETS $ 15,222.2 $ 14,088.9 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
173
APPALACHIAN POWER COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
LIABILITIES AND COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY
December 31, 2022 and 2021
December 31,
2022 2021
(in millions)
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Advances from Affiliates $ 182.2 $ 199.3 
Accounts Payable:
General 451.2 262.2 
Affiliated Companies 142.7 118.6 
Long-term Debt Due Within One Year - Nonaffiliated 251.8 480.7 
Customer Deposits 75.1 73.9 
Accrued Taxes 101.0 119.7 
Obligations Under Operating Leases 15.0 15.1 
Other Current Liabilities 171.2 146.4 
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 1,390.2 1,415.9 
NONCURRENT LIABILITIES
Long-term Debt – Nonaffiliated 5,158.7 4,458.2 
Deferred Income Taxes 1,992.2 1,804.7 
Regulatory Liabilities and Deferred Investment Tax Credits 1,143.6 1,238.8 
Asset Retirement Obligations 419.2 394.9 
Employee Benefits and Pension Obligations 34.2 41.5 
Obligations Under Operating Leases 59.1 52.4 
Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities 49.6 34.6 
TOTAL NONCURRENT LIABILITIES 8,856.6 8,025.1 
TOTAL LIABILITIES 10,246.8 9,441.0 
Rate Matters (Note 4)
Commitments and Contingencies (Note 6)
COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY
Common Stock – No Par Value:
Authorized – 30,000,000 Shares
Outstanding – 13,499,500 Shares 260.4 260.4 
Paid-in Capital 1,828.7 1,828.7 
Retained Earnings 2,891.1 2,534.4 
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (4.8) 24.4 
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY 4,975.4 4,647.9 
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY $ 15,222.2 $ 14,088.9 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
174
APPALACHIAN POWER COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net Income $ 394.2 $ 348.9 $ 369.7 
Adjustments to Reconcile Net Income to Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities:
Depreciation and Amortization 575.9 546.2 507.5 
Deferred Income Taxes 79.6 15.0 (26.2)
Asset Impairments and Other Related Charges - Coal Fired Generation 24.9 — — 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction (11.7) (15.6) (14.6)
Mark-to-Market of Risk Management Contracts (24.4) (22.3) 18.8 
Pension Contributions to Qualified Plan Trust — — (7.0)
Deferred Fuel Over/Under-Recovery, Net (501.8) (196.0) 37.2 
Establishment of 2017-2019 Virginia Triennial Review Regulatory Asset (37.0) — — 
Re-Establishment of Regulatory Asset - Coal Fired Generation — — (49.0)
Change in Other Noncurrent Assets (75.2) (68.8) (40.4)
Change in Other Noncurrent Liabilities 31.4 35.6 11.2 
Changes in Certain Components of Working Capital:
Accounts Receivable, Net (8.5) (53.3) (30.2)
Fuel, Materials and Supplies (113.5) 116.1 (38.2)
Margin Deposits 64.4 (70.0) 2.8 
Accounts Payable 190.1 36.8 (48.1)
Accrued Taxes, Net 6.7 (16.2) 31.3 
Other Current Assets 0.2 (2.4) 15.5 
Other Current Liabilities 5.9 (42.3) (28.3)
Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities 601.2 611.7 712.0 
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Construction Expenditures (1,048.6) (841.6) (767.4)
Change in Advances to Affiliates, Net 1.0 0.6 0.7 
Other Investing Activities 42.4 14.5 8.8 
Net Cash Flows Used for Investing Activities (1,005.2) (826.5) (757.9)
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Issuance of Long-term Debt – Nonaffiliated 698.0 494.0 606.9 
Change in Advances from Affiliates, Net (17.1) 180.7 (218.1)
Retirement of Long-term Debt – Nonaffiliated (230.4) (393.0) (140.3)
Principal Payments for Finance Lease Obligations (7.9) (7.7) (7.4)
Dividends Paid on Common Stock (37.5) (62.5) (200.0)
Other Financing Activities 0.7 0.7 0.7 
Net Cash Flows from Financing Activities 405.8 212.2 41.8 
Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash for Securitized Funding 1.8 (2.6) (4.1)
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash for Securitized Funding at Beginning of Period 20.1 22.7 26.8 
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash for Securitized Funding at End of Period $ 21.9 $ 20.1 $ 22.7 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
Cash Paid for Interest, Net of Capitalized Amounts $ 215.1 $ 207.5 $ 207.1 
Net Cash Paid (Received) for Income Taxes (88.6) 32.8 — 
Noncash Acquisitions Under Finance Leases 1.6 1.7 7.2 
Construction Expenditures Included in Current Liabilities as of December 31, 164.6 139.1 105.6 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
175
INDIANA MICHIGAN POWER COMPANY
AND SUBSIDIARIES
176
INDIANA MICHIGAN POWER COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
MANAGEMENT’S NARRATIVE DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
KWh Sales/Degree Days
Summary of KWh Energy Sales
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions of KWhs)
Retail:
Residential 5,507 5,463 5,464 
Commercial 4,740 4,600 4,475 
Industrial 7,492 7,373 7,225 
Miscellaneous 56 58 67 
Total Retail 17,795 17,494 17,231 
Wholesale 6,772 6,618 7,135 
Total KWhs 24,567 24,112 24,366 
Heating degree days and cooling degree days are metrics commonly used in the utility industry as a measure of the
impact of weather on revenues.
Summary of Heating and Cooling Degree Days
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in degree days)
Actual – Heating (a) 3,804 3,396 3,352 
Normal – Heating (b) 3,725 3,730 3,742 
Actual – Cooling (c) 935 1,055 928 
Normal – Cooling (b) 857 861 854 
(a)Heating degree days are calculated on a 55 degree temperature base.
(b)Normal Heating/Cooling represents the thirty-year average of degree days.
(c)Cooling degree days are calculated on a 65 degree temperature base.
177
2022 Compared to 2021
Indiana Michigan Power Company and Subsidiaries
Reconciliation of Year Ended December 31, 2021 to Year Ended December 31, 2022
Net Income
(in millions)
Year Ended December 31, 2021 $ 279.8 
Changes in Gross Margin:
Retail Margins 65.2 
Margins from Off-system Sales 32.2 
Transmission Revenues 17.1 
Other Revenues 7.9 
Total Change in Gross Margin 122.4 
Changes in Expenses and Other:
Other Operation and Maintenance 7.0 
Depreciation and Amortization (81.2)
Taxes Other Than Income Taxes 13.8 
Other Income (2.4)
Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost 8.5 
Interest Expense (8.4)
Total Change in Expenses and Other (62.7)
Income Tax Expense (14.8)
Year Ended December 31, 2022 $ 324.7 
The major components of the increase in Gross Margin, defined as revenues less the related direct cost of fuel,
including consumption of chemicals and emissions allowances, and purchased electricity were as follows:
•Retail Margins increased $65 million primarily due to the following:
•An $87 million increase in rider revenues partially offset by lower wholesale true-ups. This increase was
partially offset in other expense items below.
•An $8 million decrease in costs for power acquired under the Unit Power Agreement between AEGCo and
I&M, primarily due to the expiration of the Rockport Plant, Unit 2 lease in December 2022.
These increases were partially offset by:
•A $29 million decrease in weather-normalized retail margins in all retail classes.
•Margins from Off-system Sales increased $32 million primarily due to Rockport Plant, Unit 2 Merchant sales
beginning in December 2022 in addition to higher market prices driven by winter storm Elliott.
•Transmission Revenues increased $17 million primarily due to the following:
•A $10 million increase due to transmission formula rate true-up activity.
•A $7 million increase due to continued investment in transmission assets.
• Other Revenues increased $8 million primarily due to the following:
•A $4 million increase due to a gain on sale of allowances. The gain on sale of allowances was partially offset
in Retail Margins above.
•A $4 million increase in barging revenues by River Transportation Division (RTD). The increase in barging
revenues was partially offset in Other Operation and Maintenance expenses below.
178
Expenses and Other and Income Tax Expense changed between years as follows:
•Other Operation and Maintenance expenses decreased $7 million primarily due to the following:
•A $66 million decrease in steam generation expenses primarily due to the modification of the Rockport Plant,
Unit 2 lease, which resulted in a change in lease classification from an operating lease to a finance lease in
December 2021. This decrease was partially offset in Depreciation and Amortization expenses below.
•A $4 million decrease due to an increased Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited distribution in 2022.
These decreases were partially offset by:
•A $25 million increase in transmission expenses primarily due to the following:
•A $42 million increase in recoverable PJM expenses. These expenses were offset in Retail Margins above.
This increase was partially offset by:
•A $7 million decrease in transmission vegetation management expenses.
•A $7 million decrease in transmission formula rate true-up activity.
•A $22 million increase in nuclear expenses at Cook Plant primarily due to refueling outage expenses.
•An $11 million increase due to a charitable contribution to the AEP Foundation.
•A $6 million increase in vegetation management expenses.
•Depreciation and Amortization expenses increased $81 million primarily due to the modification of the
Rockport Plant, Unit 2 lease, which resulted in a change in lease classification from an operating lease to a finance
lease in December 2021, and a higher depreciable base. The increase resulting from the lease modification was
partially offset in Other Operation and Maintenance expenses above.
•Taxes Other Than Income Taxes decreased $14 million primarily due to the repeal of the Indiana Utility
Receipts Tax in July 2022. This decrease was partially offset in Retail Margins above.
•Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost decreased $9 million primarily due to an increase
in discount rates, an increase in the expected return on plan assets and favorable plan returns in 2021.
•Interest Expense increased $8 million primarily due to a debt issuance in April 2021.
•Income Tax Expense increased $15 million primarily due to the following:
•A $13 million increase due to an increase in pretax book income.
•An $11 million increase in state taxes.
These increases were partially offset by:
•An $8 million increase in amortization of Excess ADIT.
179
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Shareholder of
Indiana Michigan Power Company
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Indiana Michigan Power Company and its
subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 and the related consolidated statements of income, of
comprehensive income (loss), of changes in common shareholder’s equity and of cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 2022, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated
financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its operations and its cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022 in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.
Basis for Opinion
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the Company’s consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting
firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be
independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules
and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. The Company is not
required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. As part of
our audits we are required to obtain an understanding of internal control over financial reporting but not for the purpose
of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly,
we express no such opinion.
Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial
statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures
included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial
statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated
financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relates
to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (ii) involved our especially
challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way
our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical
audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it
relates.
180
Accounting for the Effects of Cost-Based Regulation
As described in Notes 1 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company's consolidated financial statements
reflect the actions of regulators that result in the recognition of certain revenues and expenses in different time periods
than enterprises that are not rate-regulated. As of December 31, 2022, there were $507 million of deferred costs
included in regulatory assets, $111 million of which were pending final regulatory approval, and $1,702 million of net
regulatory liabilities awaiting potential refund or future rate reduction. Regulatory assets (deferred expenses) and
regulatory liabilities (deferred future revenue reductions or refunds) are recorded to reflect the economic effects of
regulation in the same accounting period by matching expenses with their recovery through regulated revenues and
matching income with its passage to customers in cost-based regulated rates. Management reviews the probability of
recovery of regulatory assets and refund of regulatory liabilities at each balance sheet date and whenever new events
occur, such as changes in the regulatory environment, issuance of regulatory commission orders, or passage of new
legislation.
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the accounting for the effects
of cost-based regulation is a critical audit matter are the significant judgment by management in the ongoing evaluation
of the recovery of regulatory assets and refund of regulatory liabilities, and in applying guidance contained in rate
orders and other relevant evidence; this in turn led to a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity and effort in
performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence related to the probability of recovery of regulatory assets and
refund of regulatory liabilities.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our
overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls
relating to management's evaluation of new events, such as changes in the regulatory environment, issuance of
regulatory commission orders, or passage of new legislation, including the probability of recovery of regulatory assets
and refund of regulatory liabilities. These procedures also included, among others, evaluating the reasonableness of
management's assessment of probability of future recovery for regulatory assets and refund of regulatory liabilities.
Testing of regulatory assets and liabilities, involved evaluating the provisions and formulas outlined in rate orders, other
regulatory correspondence, application of relevant regulatory precedents, and other relevant evidence.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Columbus, Ohio
February 23, 2023
We have served as the Company's auditor since 2017.
181
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
The management of Indiana Michigan Power Company and Subsidiaries (I&M) is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  I&M’s internal control is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls
may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.
Management assessed the effectiveness of I&M’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022.  In
making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013).  Based on management’s
assessment, management concluded I&M’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31,
2022.
This annual report does not include an audit report from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, I&M’s registered public
accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting pursuant to the Securities and Exchange
Commission rules that permit I&M to provide only management’s report in this annual report.
182
INDIANA MICHIGAN POWER COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
REVENUES
Electric Generation, Transmission and Distribution $ 2,588.3 $ 2,261.2 $ 2,165.3 
Sales to AEP Affiliates 15.3 3.8 10.5 
Other Revenues – Affiliated 54.3 54.0 60.8 
Other Revenues – Nonaffiliated 11.7 7.7 5.2 
TOTAL REVENUES 2,669.6 2,326.7 2,241.8 
EXPENSES
Purchased Electricity, Fuel and Other Consumables Used for Electric
Generation 535.5 338.9 344.2 
Purchased Electricity from AEP Affiliates 241.8 217.9 172.8 
Other Operation 621.0 645.2 650.0 
Maintenance 227.2 210.0 193.2 
Depreciation and Amortization 527.2 446.0 411.6 
Taxes Other Than Income Taxes 97.0 110.8 107.1 
TOTAL EXPENSES 2,249.7 1,968.8 1,878.9 
OPERATING INCOME 419.9 357.9 362.9 
Other Income (Expense):
Other Income 9.3 11.7 10.0 
Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost 24.9 16.4 16.7 
Interest Expense (125.2) (116.8) (112.3)
INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAX EXPENSE (BENEFIT) 328.9 269.2 277.3 
Income Tax Expense (Benefit) 4.2 (10.6) (7.5)
NET INCOME $ 324.7 $ 279.8 $ 284.8 
The common stock of I&M is wholly-owned by Parent.
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
183
INDIANA MICHIGAN POWER COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
 (in millions)
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
Net Income $ 324.7 $ 279.8 $ 284.8 
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS), NET OF TAXES
Cash Flow Hedges, Net of Tax of $0.4, $0.4 and $0.4 in 2022, 2021 and 2020,
Respectively 1.6 1.6 1.6 
Amortization of Pension and OPEB Deferred Costs, Net of Tax of $(0.1), $0
and $0 in 2022, 2021 and 2020, Respectively (0.3) (0.1) (0.1)
Pension and OPEB Funded Status, Net of Tax of $(0.1), $1.1 and $0.8 in 2022,
2021 and 2020, Respectively (0.3) 4.2 3.1 
TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 1.0 5.7 4.6 
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME $ 325.7 $ 285.5 $ 289.4 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
184
INDIANA MICHIGAN POWER COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
Common
StockPaid-in
CapitalRetained
EarningsAccumulated
Other
Comprehensive
Income (Loss) Total
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S
EQUITY – DECEMBER 31, 2019 $ 56.6 $ 980.9 $ 1,518.5 $ (11.6)$ 2,544.4 
Common Stock Dividends (85.0) (85.0)
ASU 2016-13 Adoption 0.4 0.4 
Net Income 284.8 284.8 
Other Comprehensive Income 4.6 4.6 
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S
EQUITY – DECEMBER 31, 2020 56.6 980.9 1,718.7 (7.0) 2,749.2 
Common Stock Dividends (250.0) (250.0)
Net Income 279.8 279.8 
Other Comprehensive Income 5.7 5.7 
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S
EQUITY – DECEMBER 31, 2021 56.6 980.9 1,748.5 (1.3) 2,784.7 
Capital Contribution from Parent 7.9 7.9 
Common Stock Dividends (110.0) (110.0)
Net Income 324.7 324.7 
Other Comprehensive Income 1.0 1.0 
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S
EQUITY – DECEMBER 31, 2022 $ 56.6 $ 988.8 $ 1,963.2 $ (0.3)$ 3,008.3 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
185
INDIANA MICHIGAN POWER COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
ASSETS
December 31, 2022 and 2021
(in millions)
December 31,
2022 2021
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 4.2 $ 1.3 
Advances to Affiliates 23.0 21.5 
Accounts Receivable:
Customers 96.6 40.6 
Affiliated Companies 104.0 78.2 
Accrued Unbilled Revenues 0.6 — 
Miscellaneous 4.7 2.5 
Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts (0.1) (0.1)
Total Accounts Receivable 205.8 121.2 
Fuel 46.5 56.8 
Materials and Supplies 188.1 175.2 
Risk Management Assets 15.2 3.3 
Regulatory Asset for Under-Recovered Fuel Costs 47.1 6.4 
Prepayments and Other Current Assets 41.9 53.7 
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 571.8 439.4 
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Electric:
Generation 5,585.1 5,531.8 
Transmission 1,842.2 1,783.1 
Distribution 3,024.7 2,800.1 
Other Property, Plant and Equipment (Including Coal Mining and Nuclear Fuel) 839.3 792.9 
Construction Work in Progress 253.0 302.8 
Total Property, Plant and Equipment 11,544.3 11,210.7 
Accumulated Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization 4,132.8 3,899.8 
TOTAL PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT – NET 7,411.5 7,310.9 
OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS
Regulatory Assets 459.6 410.9 
Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Trusts 3,341.2 3,867.0 
Operating Lease Assets 64.3 63.5 
Deferred Charges and Other Noncurrent Assets 270.5 316.5 
TOTAL OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS 4,135.6 4,657.9 
TOTAL ASSETS $ 12,118.9 $ 12,408.2 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
186
INDIANA MICHIGAN POWER COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
LIABILITIES AND COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY
December 31, 2022 and 2021
(dollars in millions)
December 31,
2022 2021
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Advances from Affiliates $ 249.9 $ 93.3 
Accounts Payable:
General 173.4 174.4 
Affiliated Companies 121.5 94.9 
Long-term Debt Due Within One Year – Nonaffiliated
(December 31, 2022 and 2021 Amounts Include $89.6 and $65 Respectively, Related to
DCC Fuel) 341.8 67.0 
Risk Management Liabilities — 5.0 
Customer Deposits 48.6 45.2 
Accrued Taxes 103.2 106.5 
Accrued Interest 36.9 37.0 
Obligations Under Finance Leases 6.9 130.5 
Obligations Under Operating Leases 16.0 15.5 
Regulatory Liability for Over-Recovered Fuel Costs — 1.5 
Other Current Liabilities 98.9 123.2 
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 1,197.1 894.0 
NONCURRENT LIABILITIES
Long-term Debt – Nonaffiliated 2,919.0 3,128.0 
Deferred Income Taxes 1,157.0 1,100.2 
Regulatory Liabilities and Deferred Investment Tax Credits 1,702.2 2,447.9 
Asset Retirement Obligations 2,027.6 1,946.2 
Obligations Under Operating Leases 48.9 48.9 
Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities 58.8 58.3 
TOTAL NONCURRENT LIABILITIES 7,913.5 8,729.5 
TOTAL LIABILITIES 9,110.6 9,623.5 
Rate Matters (Note 4)
Commitments and Contingencies (Note 6)
COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY
Common Stock – No Par Value:
Authorized – 2,500,000 Shares
Outstanding  – 1,400,000 Shares 56.6 56.6 
Paid-in Capital 988.8 980.9 
Retained Earnings 1,963.2 1,748.5 
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (0.3) (1.3)
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY 3,008.3 2,784.7 
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND COMMON SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY $ 12,118.9 $ 12,408.2 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
187
INDIANA MICHIGAN POWER COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
Years Ended December  31,
2022 2021 2020
OPERA TING ACTIVITIES
Net Income $ 324.7  $ 279.8  $ 284.8  
Adjustments to Reconcile Net Income to Net Cash Flows fr om Operating Activities:
Depreciation and Amortization 527.2  446.0  411.6 
Rockport Plant, Unit 2 Operating Lease Amortization — 62.4 69.2 
Deferred Income Taxes (45.1) (38.0) (16.2)
Amortization (Deferral) of Incremental Nuclear Refueling Outage Expenses, Net (49.2) 7.5 24.4 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction (9.8) (12.8) (11.5)
Mark-to-Market of Risk Management Contracts (16.9) 5.2 5.9 
Amortization of Nuclear Fuel 82.9 85.3 87.5 
Pension Contributions to Qualified Plan Trust — — (6.4)
Deferred Fuel Over/Under -Recovery , Net (42.2) (20.2) 12.4 
Change in Other Noncurrent Assets (47.3) (54.1) 6.1 
Change in Other Noncurrent Liabilities 62.4 7.5 45.0 
Changes in Certain Components of Working Capital:
Accounts Receivable, Net (82.7) (22.3) 14.5 
Fuel, Materials and Supplies (2.6) 30.1 (34.7)
Accounts Payable 37.3 42.3 (10.8)
Accrued Taxes, Net 9.4 1.6 (20.2)
Rockport Plant, Unit 2 Operating Lease Payments — (73.9) (73.9)
Other Current Assets 19.5 (15.2) 14.3 
Other Current Liabilities (46.9) 2.5 (25.7)
Net Cash Flows fr om Operating Activities 720.7  733.7  776.3  
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Construction Expenditures (557.8 ) (500.9 ) (544.7 )
Change in Advances to Affiliates, Net (1.5) (8.2) (0.1)
Purchases of Investment Securities (2,765.4 ) (1,928.2 ) (1,637.2 )
Sales of Investment Securities 2,713.6  1,886.4  1,593.4  
Acquisitions of Nuclear Fuel (100.7 ) (104.5 ) (69.7)
Other Investing Activities 10.3 22.3 9.4 
Net Cash Flows Used for  Investing Activities (701.5 ) (633.1 ) (648.9 )
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Capital Contribution from Parent 7.9 — — 
Issuance of Long-term Debt - Nonaf filiated 142.7  546.7  69.5 
Change in Advances from Affiliates, Net 156.6  (9.7) (11.4)
Retirement of Long-term Debt - Nonaf filiated (83.4) (383.5 ) (93.2)
Principal Payments for Finance Lease Obligations (130.7 ) (6.8) (6.5)
Dividends Paid on Common Stock (110.0) (250.0 ) (85.0)
Other Financing Activities 0.6 0.7 0.5 
Net Cash Flows Used for  Financing Activities (16.3) (102.6 ) (126.1 )
Net Incr ease (Decr ease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 2.9 (2.0) 1.3 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Period 1.3 3.3 2.0 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Period $ 4.2 $ 1.3 $ 3.3 
SUPPLEMENT ARY INFORMA TION
Cash Paid for Interest, Net of Capitalized Amounts $ 120.9  $ 110.9 $ 107.6  
Net Cash Paid for Income Taxes 10.1 29.3 42.1 
Noncash Acquisitions Under Finance Leases 2.2 132.3  3.0 
Construction Expenditures Included in Current Liabilities as of December 31, 71.9 87.8 62.8 
Acquisition of Nuclear Fuel Included in Current Liabilities as of December 31, — — 33.4 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
188
OHIO POWER COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
189
OHIO POWER COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
MANAGEMENT’S NARRATIVE DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
KWh Sales/Degree Days
Summary of KWh Energy Sales
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions of KWhs)
Retail:
Residential 14,430 14,547 14,355 
Commercial 16,013 15,036 13,933 
Industrial 14,088 14,321 13,347 
Miscellaneous 110 112 113 
Total Retail (a) 44,641 44,016 41,748 
Wholesale (b) 2,198 2,018 1,859 
Total KWhs 46,839 46,034 43,607 
(a)Represents energy delivered to distribution customers.
(b)Primarily Ohio’s contractually obligated purchases of OVEC power sold into PJM.
Heating degree days and cooling degree days are metrics commonly used in the utility industry as a measure of the
impact of weather on revenues.
Summary of Heating and Cooling Degree Days
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in degree days)
Actual – Heating (a) 3,116 2,815 2,743 
Normal – Heating (b) 3,185 3,190 3,202 
Actual – Cooling (c) 1,121 1,222 1,140 
Normal – Cooling (b) 1,011 1,016 1,006 
(a)Heating degree days are calculated on a 55 degree temperature base.
(b)Normal Heating/Cooling represents the thirty-year average of degree days.
(c)Cooling degree days are calculated on a 65 degree temperature base.
190
2022 Compared to 2021
Ohio Power Company and Subsidiaries
Reconciliation of Year Ended December 31, 2021 to Year Ended December 31, 2022
Net Income
(in millions)
Year Ended December 31, 2021 $ 253.6 
Changes in Gross Margin:
Retail Margins 177.9 
Margins from Off-system Sales 61.9 
Transmission Revenues 6.4 
Other Revenues (37.5)
Total Change in Gross Margin 208.7 
Changes in Expenses and Other:
Other Operation and Maintenance (172.5)
Depreciation and Amortization 9.0 
Taxes Other Than Income Taxes (16.7)
Interest Income 0.3 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction 3.1 
Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost 7.5 
Other Income (0.8)
Interest Expense 4.8 
Total Change in Expenses and Other (165.3)
Income Tax Expense (9.8)
Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries 0.6 
Year Ended December 31, 2022 $ 287.8 
The major components of the increase in Gross Margin, defined as revenues less the related direct cost of purchased
electricity were as follows:
•Retail Margins increased $178 million primarily due to the following:
•A $111 million net increase in Basic Transmission Cost Rider revenues and recoverable PJM expenses. This
increase was partially offset in Other Operation and Maintenance expenses below.
•A $42 million increase due to various rider revenues. This increase was partially offset in Margins from Off-
system Sales, Other Revenues and other expense items below.
•A $10 million increase in weather-normalized margins primarily from the industrial and commercial classes,
partially offset by the residential class.
•A $10 million increase in weather-related usage primarily due to the end of decoupling.
•Margins from Off-system Sales increased $62 million primarily due to the following:
•A $52 million increase in off-system sales at OVEC due to higher market prices and volume, partially offset
by an increase in PJM expenses driven by winter storm Elliott. This increase was offset in Retail Margins
above and Other Revenues below.
•A $10 million increase in deferrals of OVEC costs. This increase was offset in Retail Margins above and Other
Revenues below.
•Transmission Revenues increased $6 million primarily due to continued investment in transmission assets.
•Other Revenues decreased $38 million primarily due to third-party Legacy Generation Resource Rider revenue
related to the recovery of OVEC costs. This decrease was offset in Retail Margins and Margins from Off-system
Sales above.
191
Expenses and Other and Income Tax Expense changed between years as follows:
•Other Operation and Maintenance expenses increased $173 million primarily due to the following:
•An $87 million increase in transmission expenses, primarily due to an $88 million increase in recoverable
PJM expenses and a $3 million increase in vegetation management, partially offset by a $6 million decrease in
transmission formula rate true-up activity. The recoverable PJM expenses are offset in Retail Margins above.
•A $21 million increase in bad debt related expenses including $8 million in 2022 related to Bad Debt Rider
over-recovery. This increase was offset in Retail Margins above.
•A $19 million increase in remitted Universal Service Fund surcharge payments to the Ohio Department of
Development to fund an energy assistance program for qualified Ohio customers. This increase was offset in
Retail Margins above.
•A $17 million increase in recoverable distribution expenses primarily related to vegetation management. This
increase was offset in Retail Margins above.
•A $10 million increase in employee-related expenses.
•An $8 million increase due to a charitable contribution to the AEP Foundation.
•Depreciation and Amortization expenses decreased $9 million primarily due to a decrease in recoverable smart
grid and Distribution Investment Rider depreciable expenses. This decrease was offset in Retail Margins above.
•Taxes Other Than Income Taxes increased $17 million primarily due to an increase in property taxes driven by
additional investments in transmission and distribution assets and higher tax rates.
•Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction increased $3 million primarily due to an increase in
AFUDC base.
•Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost decreased $8 million primarily due to an increase
in discount rates, an increase in the expected return on plan assets and favorable plan returns in 2021.
•Interest Expense decreased $5 million primarily due to the retirement of a higher rate bond partially offset by the
issuance of a lower rate bond in 2021.
•Income Tax Expense increased $10 million primarily due to the following:
•A $9 million increase due to an increase in pretax book income.
•A $5 million decrease in amortization of Excess ADIT.
•A $5 million increase due to 2021 return to provision adjustments.
These increases were partially offset by:
•A $9 million decrease due to an unfavorable out of period adjustment recorded in the prior year related to
deferred income taxes.
192
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Shareholder of
Ohio Power Company
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Ohio Power Company and its subsidiaries (the
“Company”) as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 and the related consolidated statements of income, of changes in
common shareholder’s equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022,
including the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the
consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of
December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2022 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.
Basis for Opinion
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the Company’s consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting
firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be
independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules
and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. The Company is not
required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. As part of
our audits we are required to obtain an understanding of internal control over financial reporting but not for the purpose
of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly,
we express no such opinion.
Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial
statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures
included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial
statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the consolidated
financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relate
to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (ii) involved our especially
challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way
our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical
audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which
they relate.
193
Accounting for the Effects of Cost-Based Regulation
As described in Notes 1 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company's consolidated financial statements
reflect the actions of regulators that result in the recognition of certain revenues and expenses in different time periods
than enterprises that are not rate-regulated. As of December 31, 2022, there were $331 million of deferred costs
included in regulatory assets, $34 million of which were pending final regulatory approval, and $1,044 million of
regulatory liabilities awaiting potential refund or future rate reduction. Regulatory assets (deferred expenses) and
regulatory liabilities (deferred future revenue reductions or refunds) are recorded to reflect the economic effects of
regulation in the same accounting period by matching expenses with their recovery through regulated revenues and
matching income with its passage to customers in cost-based regulated rates. Management reviews the probability of
recovery of regulatory assets and refund of regulatory liabilities at each balance sheet date and whenever new events
occur, such as changes in the regulatory environment, issuance of regulatory commission orders, or passage of new
legislation.
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the accounting for the effects
of cost-based regulation is a critical audit matter are the significant judgment by management in the ongoing evaluation
of the recovery of regulatory assets and refund of regulatory liabilities, and in applying guidance contained in rate
orders and other relevant evidence; this in turn led to a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity and effort in
performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence related to the probability of recovery of regulatory assets and
refund of regulatory liabilities.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our
overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls
relating to management's evaluation of new events, such as changes in the regulatory environment, issuance of
regulatory commission orders, or passage of new legislation, including the probability of recovery of regulatory assets
and refund of regulatory liabilities. These procedures also included, among others, evaluating the reasonableness of
management's assessment of probability of future recovery for regulatory assets and refund of regulatory liabilities.
Testing of regulatory assets and liabilities, involved evaluating the provisions and formulas outlined in rate orders, other
regulatory correspondence, application of relevant regulatory precedents, and other relevant evidence.
Valuation of Level 3 Risk Management Commodity Contracts
As described in Notes 1, 10 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company employs risk management
commodity contracts including physical and financial forward purchase and sale contracts and, to a lesser extent, over-
the-counter swaps and options to accomplish its risk management strategies. Certain over-the-counter and bilaterally
executed derivative instruments are executed in less active markets with a lower availability of pricing information. As
disclosed by management, the fair value of these risk management commodity contracts is estimated based on the best
market information available, including valuation models that estimate future energy prices based on existing market
and broker quotes, and other assumptions. Fair value estimates, based upon the best market information available,
involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment including forward market price assumptions. The main driver
of contracts being classified as Level 3 is the inability to substantiate energy price curves in the market. Management
utilized such unobservable pricing inputs to value its Level 3 risk management commodity contract liabilities, which
totaled $40 million, as of December 31, 2022.
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the valuation of Level 3 risk
management commodity contracts is a critical audit matter are the significant judgment by management when
developing the fair value of the commodity contracts; this in turn led to a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity
and effort in performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence relating to the forward market price assumptions
used in management’s valuation models. In addition, the audit effort involved the use of professionals with specialized
skill and knowledge.
194
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our
overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls
relating to management’s valuation of the risk management commodity contracts, including controls over the
assumptions used to value the Level 3 risk management commodity contracts. These procedures also included, among
others, testing management’s process for developing the fair value of the Level 3 risk management commodity
contracts, evaluating the appropriateness of the valuation models, evaluating the reasonableness of the forward market
price assumptions, and testing the data used by management in the valuation models. Professionals with specialized
skill and knowledge were used to assist in evaluating the reasonableness of the forward market price assumptions.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Columbus, Ohio
February 23, 2023
We have served as the Company's auditor since 2017.
195
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
The management of Ohio Power Company and Subsidiaries (OPCo) is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  OPCo’s internal control is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.
Management assessed the effectiveness of OPCo’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2022.  In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013).  Based on
management’s assessment, management concluded OPCo’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of
December 31, 2022.
This annual report does not include an audit report from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, OPCo’s registered public
accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting pursuant to the Securities and Exchange
Commission rules that permit OPCo to provide only management’s report in this annual report.
196
OHIO POWER COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
REVENUES
Electricity, Transmission and Distribution $ 3,635.3 $ 2,863.7 $ 2,698.6 
Sales to AEP Affiliates 18.8 24.8 41.5 
Other Revenues 11.0 10.6 9.0 
TOTAL REVENUES 3,665.1 2,899.1 2,749.1 
EXPENSES
Purchased Electricity for Resale 1,277.4 678.0 549.2 
Purchased Electricity from AEP Affiliates 9.8 51.9 119.7 
Other Operation 982.0 836.8 822.6 
Maintenance 185.5 158.2 127.1 
Depreciation and Amortization 294.3 303.3 276.6 
Taxes Other Than Income Taxes 502.4 485.7 450.2 
TOTAL EXPENSES 3,251.4 2,513.9 2,345.4 
OPERATING INCOME 413.7 385.2 403.7 
Other Income (Expense):
Interest Income 0.9 0.6 1.0 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction 13.9 10.8 12.5 
Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost 22.1 14.6 15.0 
Interest Expense (119.6) (124.4) (117.2)
Other Income 0.4 1.2 1.6 
INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAX EXPENSE 331.4 288.0 316.6 
Income Tax Expense 44.2 34.4 45.2 
Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries 0.6 — — 
NET INCOME $ 287.8 $ 253.6 $ 271.4 
The common stock of OPCo is wholly-owned by Parent.
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
197
OHIO POWER COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
Common
StockPaid-in
CapitalRetained
Earnings Total
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY –
DECEMBER 31, 2019 $ 321.2 $ 838.8 $ 1,348.5 $ 2,508.5 
Common Stock Dividends (87.5) (87.5)
ASU 2016-13 Adoption 0.3 0.3 
Net Income 271.4 271.4 
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY –
DECEMBER 31, 2020 321.2 838.8 1,532.7 2,692.7 
Common Stock Dividends (100.0) (100.0)
Net Income 253.6 253.6 
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY –
DECEMBER 31, 2021 321.2 838.8 1,686.3 2,846.3 
Capital Contribution from Parent 1.0 1.0 
Return of Capital to Parent (2.0) (2.0)
Common Stock Dividends (45.0) (45.0)
Net Income 287.8 287.8 
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY –
DECEMBER 31, 2022 $ 321.2 $ 837.8 $ 1,929.1 $ 3,088.1 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
198
OHIO POWER COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
ASSETS
December 31, 2022 and 2021
(in millions)
December 31,
2022 2021
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 9.6 $ 3.0 
Advances to Affiliates — 42.0 
Accounts Receivable:
Customers 119.9 71.6 
Affiliated Companies 100.9 71.8 
Accrued Unbilled Revenues 17.8 1.3 
Miscellaneous 0.1 5.9 
Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts (0.1) (0.6)
Total Accounts Receivable 238.6 150.0 
Materials and Supplies 109.5 74.1 
Renewable Energy Credits 35.0 30.5 
Prepayments and Other Current Assets 21.7 27.9 
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 414.4 327.5 
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Electric:
Transmission 3,198.6 2,992.8 
Distribution 6,450.3 6,070.6 
Other Property, Plant and Equipment 1,051.4 992.9 
Construction Work in Progress 474.3 365.0 
Total Property, Plant and Equipment 11,174.6 10,421.3 
Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization 2,565.3 2,458.3 
TOTAL PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT – NET 8,609.3 7,963.0 
OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS
Regulatory Assets 327.3 293.0 
Operating Lease Assets 73.8 81.2 
Deferred Charges and Other Noncurrent Assets 578.3 601.1 
TOTAL OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS 979.4 975.3 
TOTAL ASSETS $ 10,003.1 $ 9,265.8 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
199
OHIO POWER COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
LIABILITIES AND COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY
December 31, 2022 and 2021
(dollars in millions)
December 31,
2022 2021
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Advances from Affiliates $ 172.9 $ — 
Accounts Payable:
General 337.3 213.5 
Affiliated Companies 126.1 125.4 
Long-term Debt Due Within One Year – Nonaffiliated 0.1 0.1 
Risk Management Liabilities 1.8 6.7 
Customer Deposits 96.5 66.4 
Accrued Taxes 733.1 702.4 
Obligations Under Operating Leases 13.5 13.1 
Other Current Liabilities 154.2 118.1 
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 1,635.5 1,245.7 
NONCURRENT LIABILITIES
Long-term Debt – Nonaffiliated 2,970.2 2,968.4 
Long-term Risk Management Liabilities 37.9 85.8 
Deferred Income Taxes 1,101.1 1,000.9 
Regulatory Liabilities and Deferred Investment Tax Credits 1,044.0 1,020.9 
Obligations Under Operating Leases 60.3 68.6 
Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities 66.0 29.2 
TOTAL NONCURRENT LIABILITIES 5,279.5 5,173.8 
TOTAL LIABILITIES 6,915.0 6,419.5 
Rate Matters (Note 4)
Commitments and Contingencies (Note 6)
COMMON SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY
Common Stock – No Par Value:
Authorized – 40,000,000 Shares
Outstanding  – 27,952,473 Shares 321.2 321.2 
Paid-in Capital 837.8 838.8 
Retained Earnings 1,929.1 1,686.3 
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY 3,088.1 2,846.3 
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND COMMON SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY $ 10,003.1 $ 9,265.8 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
200
OHIO POWER COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net Income $ 287.8 $ 253.6 $ 271.4 
Adjustments to Reconcile Net Income to Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities:
Depreciation and Amortization 294.3 303.3 276.6 
Deferred Income Taxes 71.5 30.7 77.2 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction (13.9) (10.8) (12.5)
Mark-to-Market of Risk Management Contracts (52.8) (17.8) 6.7 
Property Taxes (20.0) (35.3) (16.6)
Change in Regulatory Assets 30.4 38.3 (69.4)
Change in Other Noncurrent Assets (87.1) (40.7) (49.4)
Change in Other Noncurrent Liabilities 91.1 6.9 (66.4)
Changes in Certain Components of Working Capital:
Accounts Receivable, Net (83.7) (11.8) 4.2 
Materials and Supplies (23.4) (2.5) (23.9)
Accounts Payable 112.7 19.1 10.3 
Accrued Taxes, Net 27.8 78.2 43.3 
Other Current Assets 11.2 (15.7) 1.9 
Other Current Liabilities 40.2 (19.9) (42.5)
Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities 686.1 575.6 410.9 
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Construction Expenditures (872.4) (732.8) (813.2)
Change in Advances to Affiliates, Net 42.0 (42.0) — 
Other Investing Activities 27.9 21.5 22.2 
Net Cash Flows Used for Investing Activities (802.5) (753.3) (791.0)
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Capital Contribution from Parent 1.0 — — 
Return of Capital to Parent (2.0) — — 
Issuance of Long-term Debt – Nonaffiliated — 1,037.1 347.0 
Change in Advances from Affiliates, Net 172.9 (259.2) 128.2 
Retirement of Long-term Debt – Nonaffiliated (0.1) (500.1) (0.1)
Principal Payments for Finance Lease Obligations (4.9) (4.9) (4.7)
Dividends Paid on Common Stock (45.0) (100.0) (87.5)
Other Financing Activities 1.1 0.4 0.9 
Net Cash Flows from Financing Activities 123.0 173.3 383.8 
Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 6.6 (4.4) 3.7 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Period 3.0 7.4 3.7 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Period $ 9.6 $ 3.0 $ 7.4 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
Cash Paid for Interest, Net of Capitalized Amounts $ 113.4 $ 119.5 $ 111.2 
Net Cash Paid (Received) for Income Taxes (19.7) (7.9) (26.9)
Noncash Acquisitions Under Finance Leases 3.0 2.5 6.1 
Construction Expenditures Included in Current Liabilities as of December 31, 109.7 97.1 76.7 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
201
PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY OF OKLAHOMA
202
PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY OF OKLAHOMA
MANAGEMENT’S NARRATIVE DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
KWh Sales/Degree Days
Summary of KWh Energy Sales
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions of KWhs)
Retail:
Residential 6,618 6,243 6,117 
Commercial 5,153 4,911 4,673 
Industrial 6,073 5,830 5,713 
Miscellaneous 1,297 1,222 1,199 
Total Retail 19,141 18,206 17,702 
Wholesale 734 669 345 
Total KWhs 19,875 18,875 18,047 
Heating degree days and cooling degree days are metrics commonly used in the utility industry as a measure of the
impact of weather on revenues.
Summary of Heating and Cooling Degree Days
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in degree days)
Actual – Heating (a) 1,893 1,499 1,454 
Normal – Heating (b) 1,736 1,742 1,744 
Actual – Cooling (c) 2,559 2,198 2,069 
Normal – Cooling (b) 2,161 2,165 2,174 
(a)Heating degree days are calculated on a 55 degree temperature base.
(b)Normal Heating/Cooling represents the thirty-year average of degree days.
(c)Cooling degree days are calculated on a 65 degree temperature base.
203
2022 Compared to 2021
Public Service Company of Oklahoma
Reconciliation of Year Ended December 31, 2021 to Year Ended December 31, 2022
Net Income
(in millions)
Year Ended December 31, 2021 $ 141.1 
Changes in Gross Margin:
Retail Margins (a) 91.6 
Transmission Revenues (0.1)
Other Revenues 1.6 
Total Change in Gross Margin 93.1 
Changes in Expenses and Other:
Other Operation and Maintenance (63.8)
Depreciation and Amortization (33.5)
Taxes Other Than Income Taxes (7.9)
Interest Income 3.1 
Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (0.9)
Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost 4.0 
Interest Expense (20.9)
Total Change in Expenses and Other (119.9)
Income Tax Expense 53.3 
Year Ended December 31, 2022 $ 167.6 
(a)Includes firm wholesale sales to municipals and cooperatives.
The major components of the increase in Gross Margin, defined as revenues less the related direct cost of fuel,
including consumption of chemicals and emissions allowances, and purchased electricity were as follows:
•Retail Margins increased $92 million primarily due to the following:
•A $110 million increase due to a $61 million increase in base rate revenues and a $49 million increase in rider
revenues. These increases were partially offset in other expense items below.
•A $26 million increase in weather-related usage due to a 16% increase in cooling degree days and a 26%
increase in heating degree days.
•A $9 million increase in weather-normalized margins primarily in the commercial class.
These increases were partially offset by:
•A $54 million decrease due to the NCWF PTC benefits provided to customers through fuel clause
mechanisms. This decrease was partially offset in Income Tax Expense below.
Expenses and Other and Income Tax Expense changed between years as follows:
•Other Operation and Maintenance expenses increased $64 million primarily due to the following:
•An $18 million increase in generating expenses primarily due to an increase in maintenance expenses at the
NCWF and Northeastern.
•A $12 million increase in transmission expenses primarily due to the following:
•A $103 million increase due to a change in rider recovery, increased transmission investment and load.
This increase was partially offset by:
•An $82 million decrease in recoverable SPP transmission expenses. This decrease was offset in Retail
Margins above.
•A $7 million decrease in transmission formula rate true-up activity. This decrease was partially offset in
Retail Margins above.
204
•A $14 million increase in distribution expenses primarily due to an increase in overhead line maintenance.
•A $6 million increase due to a charitable contribution to the AEP Foundation.
•A $4 million increase due to pre-construction costs associated with various renewable projects.
•Depreciation and Amortization expenses increased $34 million primarily due to a higher depreciable base,
implementation of new rates and the timing of refunds to customers under rate rider mechanisms.
•Taxes Other Than Income Taxes increased $8 million primarily due to a new infrastructure fee implemented by
the City of Tulsa in March 2022 and increased property taxes. This increase was partially offset in Retail Margins
above.
•Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost decreased $4 million primarily due to an increase
in discount rates, an increase in the expected return on plan assets and favorable plan returns in 2021.
•Interest Expense increased $21 million primarily due to an increase in long-term debt balances and Advances
from Affiliates.
•Income Tax Expense decreased $53 million primarily due to a $42 million increase in PTCs related to enacted
legislation under the IRA and additional capital investment in tax-credit eligible property and a $6 million
decrease due to a decrease in pretax book income. The increase in PTCs was partially offset in Retail Margins
above.
205
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Shareholder of
Public Service Company of Oklahoma
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Public Service Company of Oklahoma (the “Company”) as of
December 31, 2022 and 2021 and the related statements of income, of comprehensive income (loss), of changes in
common shareholder’s equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022,
including the related notes (collectively referred to as the “financial statements”). In our opinion, the financial
statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2022 and
2021, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2022 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with
respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of
the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits of these financial statements in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. The Company is not required to have, nor were we
engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. As part of our audits we are required to
obtain an understanding of internal control over financial reporting but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on
the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion.
Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements,
whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included
examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also
included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for
our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the financial
statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relates to
accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (ii) involved our especially challenging,
subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on
the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing
a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.
206
Accounting for the Effects of Cost-Based Regulation
As described in Notes 1 and 5 to the financial statements, the Company's financial statements reflect the actions of
regulators that result in the recognition of certain revenues and expenses in different time periods than enterprises that
are not rate-regulated. As of December 31, 2022, there were $832 million of deferred costs included in regulatory
assets, $26 million of which were pending final regulatory approval, and $809 million of regulatory liabilities awaiting
potential refund or future rate reduction, $51 million of which were pending final regulatory determination. Regulatory
assets (deferred expenses) and regulatory liabilities (deferred future revenue reductions or refunds) are recorded to
reflect the economic effects of regulation in the same accounting period by matching expenses with their recovery
through regulated revenues and matching income with its passage to customers in cost-based regulated rates.
Management reviews the probability of recovery of regulatory assets and refund of regulatory liabilities at each balance
sheet date and whenever new events occur, such as changes in the regulatory environment, issuance of regulatory
commission orders, or passage of new legislation.
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the accounting for the effects
of cost-based regulation is a critical audit matter are the significant judgment by management in the ongoing evaluation
of the recovery of regulatory assets and refund of regulatory liabilities, and in applying guidance contained in rate
orders and other relevant evidence; this in turn led to a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity and effort in
performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence related to the probability of recovery of regulatory assets and
refund of regulatory liabilities.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our
overall opinion on the financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls relating to
management's evaluation of new events, such as changes in the regulatory environment, issuance of regulatory
commission orders, or passage of new legislation, including the probability of recovery of regulatory assets and refund
of regulatory liabilities. These procedures also included, among others, evaluating the reasonableness of management's
assessment of probability of future recovery for regulatory assets and refund of regulatory liabilities. Testing of
regulatory assets and liabilities, involved evaluating the provisions and formulas outlined in rate orders, other
regulatory correspondence, application of relevant regulatory precedents, and other relevant evidence.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Columbus, Ohio
February 23, 2023
We have served as the Company's auditor since 2017.
207
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
The management of Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  PSO’s internal control is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.
Management assessed the effectiveness of PSO’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022.  In
making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013).  Based on management’s
assessment, management concluded PSO’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31,
2022.
This annual report does not include an audit report from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, PSO’s registered public
accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting pursuant to the Securities and Exchange
Commission rules that permit PSO to provide only management’s report in this annual report.
208
PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY OF OKLAHOMA
STATEMENTS OF INCOME
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
REVENUES
Electric Generation, Transmission and Distribution $ 1,865.6 $ 1,465.3 $ 1,246.1 
Sales to AEP Affiliates 2.9 4.2 5.2 
Other Revenues 6.2 4.9 14.8 
TOTAL REVENUES 1,874.7 1,474.4 1,266.1 
EXPENSES
Purchased Electricity, Fuel and Other Consumables Used for Electric
Generation 891.5 584.3 443.5 
Other Operation 400.4 353.8 327.3 
Maintenance 114.4 97.2 98.4 
Depreciation and Amortization 230.1 196.6 173.5 
Taxes Other Than Income Taxes 57.5 49.6 47.5 
TOTAL EXPENSES 1,693.9 1,281.5 1,090.2 
OPERATING INCOME 180.8 192.9 175.9 
Other Income (Expense):
Interest Income 7.4 4.3 0.1 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction 1.5 2.4 4.0 
Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost 12.5 8.5 8.5 
Interest Expense (83.8) (62.9) (60.3)
INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAX EXPENSE (BENEFIT) 118.4 145.2 128.2 
Income Tax Expense (Benefit) (49.2) 4.1 5.2 
NET INCOME $ 167.6 $ 141.1 $ 123.0 
The common stock of PSO is wholly-owned by Parent.
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
209
PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY OF OKLAHOMA
STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
 (in millions)
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
Net Income $ 167.6 $ 141.1 $ 123.0 
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS), NET OF TAXES
Cash Flow Hedges, Net of Tax of $0.3, $0 and $(0.3) in 2022, 2021 and 2020,
Respectively 1.3 (0.1) (1.0)
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME $ 168.9 $ 141.0 $ 122.0 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
210
PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY OF OKLAHOMA
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
Common
StockPaid-in
CapitalRetained
EarningsAccumulated
Other
Compr ehensive
Income (Loss) Total
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S
EQUITY  – DECEMBER 31, 2019 $ 157.2  $ 364.0  $ 851.0  $ 1.1 $ 1,373.3  
Capital Contribution of Radial Assets from Parent 50.0 50.0 
ASU 2016-13 Adoption 0.3 0.3 
Net Income 123.0  123.0  
Other Comprehensive Loss (1.0) (1.0)
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S
EQUITY  – DECEMBER 31, 2020 157.2  414.0  974.3  0.1 1,545.6  
Capital Contribution from Parent 625.0  625.0  
Common Stock Dividends (20.0) (20.0)
Net Income 141.1  141.1  
Other Comprehensive Loss (0.1) (0.1)
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S
EQUITY  – DECEMBER 31, 2021 157.2  1,039.0  1,095.4  — 2,291.6  
Capital Contribution from Parent 3.6 3.6 
Common Stock Dividends (45.0) (45.0)
Net Income 167.6  167.6  
Other Comprehensive Income 1.3 1.3 
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S
EQUITY  – DECEMBER 31, 2022 $ 157.2  $ 1,042.6  $ 1,218.0  $ 1.3 $ 2,419.1  
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
211
PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY OF OKLAHOMA
BALANCE SHEETS
ASSETS
December 31, 2022 and 2021
(in millions)
December 31,
2022 2021
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 4.0 $ 1.3 
Accounts Receivable:
Customers 70.1 41.5 
Affiliated Companies 52.2 35.0 
Miscellaneous 0.8 0.6 
Total Accounts Receivable 123.1 77.1 
Fuel 11.6 14.5 
Materials and Supplies 111.1 56.2 
Risk Management Assets 25.3 12.1 
Accrued Tax Benefits 16.1 17.6 
Regulatory Asset for Under-Recovered Fuel Costs 178.7 194.6 
Prepayments and Other Current Assets 21.6 13.4 
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 491.5 386.8 
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Electric:
Generation 2,394.8 1,802.4 
Transmission 1,164.4 1,107.7 
Distribution 3,216.4 3,004.9 
Other Property, Plant and Equipment 469.3 437.0 
Construction Work in Progress 219.3 156.0 
Total Property, Plant and Equipment 7,464.2 6,508.0 
Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization 1,837.7 1,705.2 
TOTAL PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT – NET 5,626.5 4,802.8 
OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS
Regulatory Assets 653.7 1,037.4 
Employee Benefits and Pension Assets 67.3 95.2 
Operating Lease Assets 106.1 68.9 
Deferred Charges and Other Noncurrent Assets 20.8 7.9 
TOTAL OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS 847.9 1,209.4 
TOTAL ASSETS $ 6,965.9 $ 6,399.0 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
212
PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY OF OKLAHOMA
BALANCE SHEETS
LIABILITIES AND COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY
December 31, 2022 and 2021
December 31,
2022 2021
(in millions)
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Advances from Affiliates $ 364.2 $ 72.3 
Accounts Payable:
General 202.9 157.4 
Affiliated Companies 76.7 51.0 
Long-term Debt Due Within One Year – Nonaffiliated 0.5 125.5 
Customer Deposits 59.0 56.2 
Accrued Taxes 28.7 27.0 
Obligations Under Operating Leases 8.9 6.9 
Other Current Liabilities 101.8 66.4 
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 842.7 562.7 
NONCURRENT LIABILITIES
Long-term Debt – Nonaffiliated 1,912.3 1,788.0 
Deferred Income Taxes 788.6 782.3 
Regulatory Liabilities and Deferred Investment Tax Credits 809.1 835.3 
Asset Retirement Obligations 73.5 57.5 
Obligations Under Operating Leases 99.3 62.2 
Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities 21.3 19.4 
TOTAL NONCURRENT LIABILITIES 3,704.1 3,544.7 
TOTAL LIABILITIES 4,546.8 4,107.4 
Rate Matters (Note 4)
Commitments and Contingencies (Note 6)
COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY
Common Stock – Par Value – $15 Per Share:
Authorized – 11,000,000 Shares
Issued – 10,482,000 Shares
Outstanding – 9,013,000 Shares 157.2 157.2 
Paid-in Capital 1,042.6 1,039.0 
Retained Earnings 1,218.0 1,095.4 
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 1.3 — 
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY 2,419.1 2,291.6 
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY $ 6,965.9 $ 6,399.0 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
213
PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY OF OKLAHOMA
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net Income $ 167.6 $ 141.1 $ 123.0 
Adjustments to Reconcile Net Income to Net Cash Flows from (Used for)
Operating Activities:
Depreciation and Amortization 230.1 196.6 173.5 
Deferred Income Taxes (59.4) 113.9 17.0 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction (1.5) (2.4) (4.0)
Mark-to-Market of Risk Management Contracts (13.7) 1.9 5.5 
Deferred Fuel Over/Under-Recovery, Net 442.4 (843.8) (94.0)
Change in Other Noncurrent Assets (35.4) (18.3) (17.9)
Change in Other Noncurrent Liabilities 29.9 4.4 1.6 
Changes in Certain Components of Working Capital:
Accounts Receivable, Net (46.0) (28.7) 1.4 
Fuel, Materials and Supplies (51.1) 1.4 (14.1)
Accounts Payable 57.5 34.2 (29.5)
Accrued Taxes, Net 3.2 (6.5) 3.6 
Other Current Assets (6.3) (6.3) 4.6 
Other Current Liabilities 30.4 (20.8) (13.7)
Net Cash Flows from (Used for) Operating Activities 747.7 (433.3) 157.0 
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Construction Expenditures (447.0) (332.1) (337.9)
Change in Advances to Affiliates, Net — — 38.8 
Acquisition of the North Central Wind Energy Facilities (549.3) (297.0) — 
Other Investing Activities 4.3 2.4 4.0 
Net Cash Flows Used for Investing Activities (992.0) (626.7) (295.1)
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Capital Contribution from Parent 3.6 625.0 — 
Issuance of Long-term Debt – Nonaffiliated 499.7 1,290.0 — 
Change in Advances from Affiliates, Net 291.9 (83.1) 155.4 
Retirement of Long-term Debt – Nonaffiliated (500.5) (750.5) (13.2)
Principal Payments for Finance Lease Obligations (3.2) (3.2) (3.5)
Dividends Paid on Common Stock (45.0) (20.0) — 
Other Financing Activities 0.5 0.5 0.5 
Net Cash Flows from Financing Activities 247.0 1,058.7 139.2 
Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 2.7 (1.3) 1.1 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Period 1.3 2.6 1.5 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Period $ 4.0 $ 1.3 $ 2.6 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
Cash Paid for Interest, Net of Capitalized Amounts $ 79.7 $ 57.0 $ 59.1 
Net Cash Paid (Received) for Income Taxes (12.5) (102.9) (11.8)
Noncash Acquisitions Under Finance Leases 2.8 3.6 3.2 
Construction Expenditures Included in Current Liabilities as of December 31, 69.8 56.8 35.5 
Noncash Contribution of Radial Assets from Parent — — 50.0 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
214
SOUTHWESTERN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY CONSOLIDATED
215
SOUTHWESTERN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY CONSOLIDATED
MANAGEMENT’S NARRATIVE DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
KWh Sales/Degree Days
Summary of KWh Energy Sales
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions of KWhs)
Retail:
Residential 6,538 6,205 5,988 
Commercial 5,732 5,489 5,296 
Industrial 5,174 4,682 4,891 
Miscellaneous 75 77 79 
Total Retail 17,519 16,453 16,254 
Wholesale 6,714 6,704 5,838 
Total KWhs 24,233 23,157 22,092 
Heating degree days and cooling degree days are metrics commonly used in the utility industry as a measure of the
impact of weather on revenues.
Summary of Heating and Cooling Degree Days
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in degree days)
Actual – Heating (a) 1,149 981 862 
Normal – Heating (b) 1,170 1,177 1,181 
Actual – Cooling (c) 2,833 2,543 2,165 
Normal – Cooling (b) 2,333 2,328 2,333 
(a)Heating degree days are calculated on a 55 degree temperature base.
(b)Normal Heating/Cooling represents the thirty-year average of degree days.
(c)Cooling degree days are calculated on a 65 degree temperature base.
216
2022 Compared to 2021
Reconciliation of Year Ended December 31, 2021 to Year Ended December 31, 2022
Earnings Attributable to SWEPCo Common Shareholder
(in millions)
Year Ended December 31, 2021 $ 239.0 
Changes in Gross Margin:
Retail Margins (a) 122.5 
Margins from Off-system Sales (10.5)
Transmission Revenues 21.6 
Other Revenues 0.5 
Total Change in Gross Margin 134.1 
Changes in Expenses and Other:
Other Operation and Maintenance (76.3)
Asset Impairments and Other Related Charges 11.6 
Depreciation and Amortization (29.8)
Taxes Other Than Income Taxes (9.1)
Interest Income 8.5 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction (2.1)
Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost 4.2 
Interest Expense (11.5)
Total Change in Expenses and Other (104.5)
Income Tax Benefit 24.6 
Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiary (2.0)
Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest (1.1)
Year Ended December 31, 2022 $ 290.1 
(a) Includes firm wholesale sales to municipals and cooperatives.
The major components of the increase in Gross Margin, defined as revenues less the related direct cost of fuel,
including consumption of chemicals and emissions allowances, and purchased electricity were as follows:
•Retail Margins increased $123 million primarily due to the following:
•A $102 million increase primarily due to base rate revenue increases in Texas and Arkansas and rider
increases in all retail jurisdictions. These increases were partially offset in other expense items below.
•A $31 million increase in weather-related usage primarily due to an 11% increase in cooling degree days
and a 17% increase in heating degree days.
•A $15 million increase in weather-normalized margins primarily in the residential and commercial classes,
partially offset by the industrial class.
These increases were partially offset by:
•A $19 million decrease due to the NCWF PTC benefits provided to customers through fuel clause
mechanisms. This decrease was partially offset in Income Tax Benefit below.
•A $6 million decrease in municipal and cooperative revenues primarily due to the February 2021 severe
winter weather event.
•Margins from Off-system Sales decreased $11 million due to a decrease in Turk Plant merchant sales
primarily driven by the February 2021 severe winter weather event.
•Transmission Revenues increased $22 million primarily due to continued investment in transmission assets
and increased load.
217
Expenses and Other and Income Tax Benefit changed between years as follows:
•Other Operation and Maintenance expenses increased $76 million primarily due to the following:
•A $12 million increase in transmission expenses primarily due to the following:
•A $13 million increase due to increased transmission investment and load.
•A $9 million increase in recoverable SPP transmission expenses. This increase was offset in Retail
Margins above.
•A $3 million increase in employee-related expenses.
These increases were partially offset by:
•An $8 million decrease due to the implementation of a rider mechanism in Arkansas.
•A $5 million decrease in transmission formula rate true-up activity.
•A $12 million increase in generation expenses primarily driven by the NCWF.
•A $10 million increase in distribution expenses primarily due to vegetation management and storm
restoration expenses.
•A $9 million increase due to a charitable contribution to the AEP Foundation.
•An $8 million increase in administrative and general expenses primarily due to regulatory fees and
employee-related expenses.
•A $7 million increase due to pre-construction costs associated with various renewable projects.
•A $6 million increase due to energy efficiency programs. This increase was offset in Retail Margins above.
•Asset Impairments and Other Related Charges decreased $12 million due to the prior year partial regulatory
disallowance of SWEPCo’s investment in the Dolet Hills Power Station as a result of an order received in the
2020 Texas Base Rate Case.
•Depreciation and Amortization expenses increased $30 million primarily due to the implementation of new
rates in Arkansas and Texas and a higher depreciable base. This increase was partially offset in Retail Margins
above.
•Taxes Other Than Income Taxes increased $9 million primarily due to increased property taxes driven by the
investment in the NCWF.
•Interest Income increased $9 million primarily related to carrying charges on regulatory assets resulting from
the February 2021 severe winter weather event.
•Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost decreased $4 million primarily due to an
increase in discount rates, an increase in the expected return on plan assets and favorable plan returns in 2021.
•Interest Expense increased $12 million primarily due to an increase in long-term debt balances and Advances
from Affiliates.
•Income Tax Benefit increased $25 million primarily due to the following:
•A $50 million increase in PTCs related to enacted legislation under the IRA and additional capital
investment in tax-credit eligible property. This increase was partially offset in Retail Margins above.
These increases were partially offset by:
•A $16 million decrease in amortization of Excess ADIT.
•A $6 million decrease due to an increase in pretax book income.
218
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Shareholder of
Southwestern Electric Power Company
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Southwestern Electric Power Company and its
subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 and the related consolidated statements of income, of
comprehensive income (loss), of changes in equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2022, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In
our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the
Company as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2022 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America.
Basis for Opinion
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the Company’s consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting
firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be
independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules
and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. The Company is not
required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. As part of
our audits we are required to obtain an understanding of internal control over financial reporting but not for the purpose
of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly,
we express no such opinion.
Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial
statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures
included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial
statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated
financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relates
to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (ii) involved our especially
challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way
our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical
audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it
relates.
219
Accounting for the Effects of Cost-Based Regulation
As described in Notes 1 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company's consolidated financial statements
reflect the actions of regulators that result in the recognition of certain revenues and expenses in different time periods
than enterprises that are not rate-regulated. As of December 31, 2022, there were $1,395 million of deferred costs
included in regulatory assets, $510 million of which were pending final regulatory approval, and $827 million of
regulatory liabilities awaiting potential refund or future rate reduction, $7 million of which were pending final
regulatory determination. Regulatory assets (deferred expenses) and regulatory liabilities (deferred future revenue
reductions or refunds) are recorded to reflect the economic effects of regulation in the same accounting period by
matching expenses with their recovery through regulated revenues and matching income with its passage to customers
in cost-based regulated rates. Management reviews the probability of recovery of regulatory assets and refund of
regulatory liabilities at each balance sheet date and whenever new events occur, such as changes in the regulatory
environment, issuance of regulatory commission orders, or passage of new legislation.
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the accounting for the effects
of cost-based regulation is a critical audit matter are the significant judgment by management in the ongoing evaluation
of the recovery of regulatory assets and refund of regulatory liabilities, and in applying guidance contained in rate
orders and other relevant evidence; this in turn led to a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity and effort in
performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence related to the probability of recovery of regulatory assets and
refund of regulatory liabilities.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our
overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls
relating to management's evaluation of new events, such as changes in the regulatory environment, issuance of
regulatory commission orders, or passage of new legislation, including the probability of recovery of regulatory assets
and refund of regulatory liabilities. These procedures also included, among others, evaluating the reasonableness of
management's assessment of probability of future recovery for regulatory assets and refund of regulatory liabilities.
Testing of regulatory assets and liabilities, involved evaluating the provisions and formulas outlined in rate orders, other
regulatory correspondence, application of relevant regulatory precedents, and other relevant evidence.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Columbus, Ohio
February 23, 2023
We have served as the Company's auditor since 2017.
220
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
The management of Southwestern Electric Power Company Consolidated (SWEPCo) is responsible for establishing
and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-
15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  SWEPCo’s internal control is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.
Management assessed the effectiveness of SWEPCo’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2022.  In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013).  Based on
management’s assessment, management concluded SWEPCo’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as
of December 31, 2022.
This annual report does not include an audit report from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, SWEPCo’s registered public
accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting pursuant to the Securities and Exchange
Commission rules that permit SWEPCo to provide only management’s report in this annual report.
221
SOUTHWESTERN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY CONSOLIDATED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
REVENUES
Electric Generation, Transmission and Distribution $ 2,228.6 $ 2,088.9 $ 1,696.6 
Sales to AEP Affiliates 59.5 41.4 41.0 
Provision for Refund - Affiliated (5.6) (0.4) (2.0)
Other Revenues 1.9 1.9 2.9 
TOTAL REVENUES 2,284.4 2,131.8 1,738.5 
EXPENSES
Purchased Electricity, Fuel and Other Consumables Used for Electric Generation 889.5 871.0 604.5 
Other Operation 424.7 360.3 338.3 
Maintenance 148.6 136.7 129.7 
Asset Impairments and Other Related Charges — 11.6 — 
Depreciation and Amortization 324.8 295.0 272.7 
Taxes Other Than Income Taxes 126.8 117.7 102.8 
TOTAL EXPENSES 1,914.4 1,792.3 1,448.0 
OPERATING INCOME 370.0 339.5 290.5 
Other Income (Expense):
Interest Income 17.7 9.2 2.1 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction 4.9 7.0 7.7 
Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost 12.5 8.3 8.4 
Interest Expense (137.4) (125.9) (118.5)
INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAX EXPENSE (BENEFIT) AND EQUITY
EARNINGS 267.7 238.1 190.2 
Income Tax Expense (Benefit) (25.2) (0.6) 9.4 
Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiary 1.4 3.4 2.9 
NET INCOME 294.3 242.1 183.7 
Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest 4.2 3.1 2.9 
EARNINGS ATTRIBUTABLE TO SWEPCo COMMON SHAREHOLDER $ 290.1 $ 239.0 $ 180.8 
The common stock of SWEPCo is wholly-owned by Parent.
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
222
SOUTHWESTERN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY CONSOLIDATED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
 (in millions)
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
Net Income $ 294.3 $ 242.1 $ 183.7 
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS), NET OF TAXES
Cash Flow Hedges, Net of Tax of $0, $0.4 and $0.4 in 2022, 2021 and
2020, Respectively (0.1) 1.5 1.5 
Amortization of Pension and OPEB Deferred Costs, Net of Tax of $(0.4),
$(0.4) and $(0.4) in 2022, 2021 and 2020, Respectively (1.6) (1.6) (1.5)
Pension and OPEB Funded Status, Net of Tax of $(2.5), $1.3 and $0.9 in
2022, 2021 and 2020, Respectively (9.2) 4.9 3.2 
TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) (10.9) 4.8 3.2 
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 283.4 246.9 186.9 
Total Comprehensive Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest 4.2 3.1 2.9 
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO
SWEPCo COMMON SHAREHOLDER $ 279.2 $ 243.8 $ 184.0 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
223
SOUTHWESTERN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY CONSOLIDATED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
SWEPCo Common Shar eholder
Common
StockPaid-in
CapitalRetained
EarningsAccumulated
Other
Compr ehensive
Income (Loss)Noncontr olling
Inter est Total
TOTAL EQUITY  – DECEMBER 31, 2019 $ 135.7  $ 676.6  $ 1,629.5  $ (1.3)$ 0.6 $ 2,441.1  
Reverse Common Stock Split (a) (135.6 ) 135.6  — 
Common Stock Dividends – Nonaf filiated (1.9) (1.9)
ASU 2016-03 Adoption 1.6 1.6 
Net Income 180.8  2.9 183.7  
Other Comprehensive Income 3.2 3.2 
TOTAL EQUITY  – DECEMBER 31, 2020 0.1 812.2  1,811.9 1.9 1.6 2,627.7  
Capital Contribution from Parent 280.0  280.0  
Common Stock Dividends – Nonaf filiated (4.8) (4.8)
Net Income 239.0  3.1 242.1  
Other Comprehensive Income 4.8 4.8 
TOTAL EQUITY  – DECEMBER 31, 2021 0.1 1,092.2  2,050.9  6.7 (0.1) 3,149.8  
Capital Contribution from Parent 350.0  350.0  
Common Stock Dividends (105.0 ) (105.0 )
Common Stock Dividends – Nonaf filiated (3.4) (3.4)
Net Income 290.1  4.2 294.3  
Other Comprehensive Loss (10.9) (10.9)
TOTAL EQUITY  – DECEMBER 31, 2022 $ 0.1 $1,442.2  $ 2,236.0  $ (4.2)$ 0.7 $ 3,674.8  
(a) In August 2020, SWEPCo executed a reverse stock split with each 2,048 shares of common stock issued and outstanding being combined
into one share of common stock. The common stock of SWEPCo is wholly-owned by Parent.
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
224
SOUTHWESTERN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY CONSOLIDATED
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
ASSETS
December 31, 2022 and 2021
(in millions)
December 31,
2022 2021
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and Cash Equivalents
(December 31, 2022 and 2021 Amounts Include $84.2 and $49.9, Respectively, Related to
Sabine) $ 88.4 $ 51.2 
Advances to Affiliates 2.1 155.9 
Accounts Receivable:
Customers 38.8 35.8 
Affiliated Companies 65.4 38.3 
Miscellaneous 10.4 12.3 
Total Accounts Receivable 114.6 86.4 
Fuel
(December 31, 2022 and 2021 Amounts Include $14.2 and $13.1, Respectively, Related to
Sabine) 81.3 82.2 
Materials and Supplies
(December 31, 2022 and 2021 Amounts Include $4.2 and $12, Respectively, Related to
Sabine) 92.1 81.9 
Risk Management Assets 16.4 9.8 
Accrued Tax Benefits 16.5 17.8 
Regulatory Asset for Under-Recovered Fuel Costs 353.0 143.9 
Prepayments and Other Current Assets 47.8 39.4 
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 812.2 668.5 
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Electric:
Generation 5,476.2 4,734.5 
Transmission 2,479.8 2,316.9 
Distribution 2,659.6 2,514.3 
Other Property, Plant and Equipment
(December 31, 2022 and 2021 Amounts Include $219.8 and $219.9, Respectively, Related
to Sabine) 804.4 764.0 
Construction Work in Progress 369.5 240.7 
Total Property, Plant and Equipment 11,789.5 10,570.4 
Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization
(December 31, 2022 and 2021 Amounts Include $212.5 and $168.1, Respectively, Related
to Sabine) 3,527.3 3,170.3 
TOTAL PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT – NET 8,262.2 7,400.1 
OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS
Regulatory Assets 1,042.4 1,005.3 
Deferred Charges and Other Noncurrent Assets 262.0 251.8 
TOTAL OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS 1,304.4 1,257.1 
TOTAL ASSETS $ 10,378.8 $ 9,325.7 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
225
SOUTHWESTERN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY CONSOLIDATED
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
December 31, 2022 and 2021
December 31,
2022 2021
(in millions)
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Advances from Affiliates $ 310.7 $ — 
Accounts Payable:
General 213.1 163.6 
Affiliated Companies 81.7 61.4 
Long-term Debt Due Within One Year – Nonaffiliated 6.2 6.2 
Risk Management Liabilities 1.4 2.1 
Customer Deposits 65.4 62.4 
Accrued Taxes 52.8 44.3 
Accrued Interest 36.0 36.0 
Obligations Under Operating Leases 8.4 8.1 
Other Current Liabilities 172.0 154.6 
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 947.7 538.7 
NONCURRENT LIABILITIES
Long-term Debt – Nonaffiliated 3,385.4 3,389.0 
Deferred Income Taxes 1,089.7 1,087.6 
Regulatory Liabilities and Deferred Investment Tax Credits 825.7 806.9 
Asset Retirement Obligations 237.2 192.7 
Employee Benefits and Pension Obligations 29.7 20.3 
Obligations Under Operating Leases 120.2 77.7 
Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities 68.4 63.0 
TOTAL NONCURRENT LIABILITIES 5,756.3 5,637.2 
TOTAL LIABILITIES 6,704.0 6,175.9 
Rate Matters (Notes 4)
Commitments and Contingencies (Note 6)
EQUITY
Common Stock – Par Value – $18 Per Share:
Authorized – 3,680 Shares
Outstanding – 3,680 Shares 0.1 0.1 
Paid-in Capital 1,442.2 1,092.2 
Retained Earnings 2,236.0 2,050.9 
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (4.2) 6.7 
TOTAL COMMON SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY 3,674.1 3,149.9 
Noncontrolling Interest 0.7 (0.1)
TOTAL EQUITY 3,674.8 3,149.8 
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY $ 10,378.8 $ 9,325.7 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
226
SOUTHWESTERN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY CONSOLIDATED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
Years Ended December  31,
2022 2021 2020
OPERA TING ACTIVITIES
Net Income $ 294.3  $ 242.1  $ 183.7  
Adjustments to Reconcile Net Income to Net Cash Flows fr om Operating Activities:
Depreciation and Amortization 324.8  295.0  272.7  
Deferred Income Taxes 9.4 16.6 32.4 
Asset Impairments and Other Related Char ges — 11.6 — 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction (4.9) (7.0) (7.7)
Mark-to-Market of Risk Management Contracts (6.2) (7.3) (0.1)
Pension Contributions to Qualified Plan Trust — — (8.9)
Deferred Fuel Over/Under -Recovery , Net (86.4) (546.4 ) 26.3 
Change in Regulatory Assets 7.6 (95.6) (108.4 )
Change in Other Noncurrent Assets 42.9 41.9 16.1 
Change in Other Noncurrent Liabilities 18.3 (1.1) 25.2 
Changes in Certain Components of Working Capital:
Accounts Receivable, Net (28.2) (21.5) 7.3 
Fuel, Materials and Supplies (9.3) 126.5  (46.4)
Accounts Payable 34.1 22.0 11.1 
Accrued Taxes, Net 9.8 15.4 (23.1)
Other Current Assets (9.8) (3.6) (2.8)
Other Current Liabilities (9.8) 8.2 (21.1)
Net Cash Flows fr om Operating Activities 586.6  96.8 356.3  
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Construction Expenditures (586.4 ) (414.6 ) (402.7 )
Change in Advances to Affiliates, Net 153.8  (153.8 ) — 
Acquisition of the North Central Wind Ener gy Facilities (658.0 ) (355.8 ) — 
Other Investing Activities 5.5 3.5 10.1 
Net Cash Flows Used for  Investing Activities (1,085.1 ) (920.7 ) (392.6 )
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Capital Contribution from Parent 350.0  280.0  — 
Issuance of Long-term Debt – Nonaf filiated — 1,137.6  — 
Change in Short-term Debt – Nonaf filiated — (35.0) 16.7 
Change in Advances from Affiliates, Net 310.7  (124.6 ) 64.7 
Retirement of Long-term Debt – Nonaf filiated (6.2) (381.2 ) (21.2)
Principal Payments for Finance Lease Obligations (10.8) (10.9) (10.9)
Dividends Paid on Common Stock (105.0 ) — — 
Dividends Paid on Common Stock – Nonaf filiated (3.4) (4.8) (1.9)
Other Financing Activities 0.4 0.8 0.5 
Net Cash Flows fr om Financing Activities 535.7  861.9  47.9 
Net Incr ease in Cash and Cash Equivalents 37.2 38.0 11.6 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Period 51.2 13.2 1.6 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Period $ 88.4 $ 51.2 $ 13.2 
SUPPLEMENT ARY INFORMA TION
Cash Paid for Interest, Net of Capitalized Amounts $ 131.2  $ 116.5 $ 110.7 
Net Cash Paid (Received) for Income Taxes (29.1) (28.8) 4.3 
Noncash Acquisitions Under Finance Leases 3.6 4.8 8.9 
Construction Expenditures Included in Current Liabilities as of December 31, 105.6  69.0 46.0 
See Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants beginning on page 228.
227
INDEX OF NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF REGISTRANTS
The notes to financial statements are a combined presentation for the Registrants. The following list indicates
Registrants to which the notes apply. Specific disclosures within each note apply to all Registrants unless indicated
otherwise.
Note RegistrantPage
Number
Organization and Summary of Significant
Accounting PoliciesAEP, AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M,
OPCo, PSO, SWEPCo229
New Accounting Standards AEP, AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M,
OPCo, PSO, SWEPCo246
Comprehensive Income AEP, AEP Texas, APCo, I&M, PSO, SWEPCo 247
Rate Matters AEP, AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M,
OPCo, PSO, SWEPCo254
Effects of Regulation AEP, AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M,
OPCo, PSO, SWEPCo265
Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies AEP, AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M,
OPCo, PSO, SWEPCo284
Acquisitions, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale,
Dispositions and ImpairmentsAEP, AEP Texas, AEPTCo, PSO, SWEPCo 292
Benefit Plans AEP, AEP Texas, APCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO,
SWEPCo299
Business Segments AEP, AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M,
OPCo, PSO, SWEPCo322
Derivatives and Hedging AEP, AEP Texas, APCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO,
SWEPCo327
Fair Value Measurements AEP, AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M,
OPCo, PSO, SWEPCo342
Income Taxes AEP, AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M,
OPCo, PSO, SWEPCo357
Leases AEP, AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M,
OPCo, PSO, SWEPCo369
Financing Activities AEP, AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M,
OPCo, PSO, SWEPCo375
Stock-based Compensation AEP 386
Related Party Transactions AEP, AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M,
OPCo, PSO, SWEPCo391
Variable Interest Entities and Equity Method
InvestmentsAEP, AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M,
OPCo, PSO, SWEPCo399
Property, Plant and Equipment AEP, AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M,
OPCo, PSO, SWEPCo410
Revenue from Contracts with Customers AEP, AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M,
OPCo, PSO, SWEPCo417
Goodwill AEP 426
Subsequent Events AEP 427
228
1.  ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The disclosures in this note apply to all Registrants unless indicated otherwise.
ORGANIZATION
The Registrants engage in the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power.  The Registrant Subsidiaries
that conduct most of these activities are regulated by the FERC under the Federal Power Act and the Energy Policy Act
of 2005 and maintain accounts in accordance with the FERC and other regulatory guidelines.  Most of these companies
are subject to further regulation with regard to rates and other matters by state regulatory commissions.
AEP provides competitive electric and gas supply for residential, commercial and industrial customers in deregulated
electricity markets and also provides energy management solutions throughout the United States, including energy
efficiency services through its independent retail electric supplier.
The Registrants also engage in wholesale electricity, natural gas and other commodity marketing and risk management
activities in the United States and provide various energy-related services.  In addition, AEP operates competitive wind
and solar farms. I&M provides barging services to both affiliated and nonaffiliated companies.  SWEPCo, through
Sabine, conducts lignite mining operations to fuel the Pirkey Plant.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Rates and Service Regulation
AEP’s public utility subsidiaries’ rates are regulated by the FERC and state regulatory commissions in the eleven state
operating territories in which they operate.  The FERC also regulates the Registrants’ affiliated transactions, including
AEPSC intercompany service billings which are generally at cost, under the 2005 Public Utility Holding Company Act
and the Federal Power Act.  The FERC also has jurisdiction over certain issuances and acquisitions of securities of the
public utility subsidiaries, the acquisition or sale of certain utility assets and mergers with another electric utility or
holding company.  The state regulatory commissions also regulate certain intercompany transactions under various
orders and affiliate statutes.  Both the FERC and state regulatory commissions are permitted to review and audit the
relevant books and records of companies within a public utility holding company system.
The FERC regulates wholesale power markets and wholesale power transactions.  The Registrants’ wholesale power
transactions are generally market-based.  Wholesale power transactions are cost-based regulated when a cost-based
contract is negotiated and filed with the FERC or the FERC determines that the Registrants have “market power” in the
region where the transaction occurs.  Wholesale power supply contracts have been entered into with various
municipalities and cooperatives that are FERC-regulated, cost-based contracts.  These contracts are generally formula
rate mechanisms, which are trued-up to actual costs annually.  
The state regulatory commissions regulate all of the retail distribution operations and rates of the Registrants’ retail
public utility subsidiaries on a cost basis.  The state regulatory commissions also regulate the retail generation/power
supply operations and rates except in Ohio and the ERCOT region of Texas.  For generation in Ohio, customers who
have not switched to a CRES provider for generation pay market-based auction rates.  In addition, all OPCo
distribution customers continue to pay for certain legacy deferred generation-related costs through PUCO approved
riders.  In the ERCOT region of Texas, the generation/supply business is under customer choice and market pricing is
conducted by REPs. AEP has one active REP in ERCOT. AEP’s nonregulated subsidiaries enter into short and long-
term wholesale transactions to buy or sell capacity, energy and ancillary services in the ERCOT market. In addition,
these nonregulated subsidiaries control certain wind assets, the power from which is marketed and sold in ERCOT.
229
The FERC also regulates the Registrants’ wholesale transmission operations and rates.  Retail transmission rates are
based upon the FERC OATT rate when retail rates are unbundled in connection with restructuring.  Retail transmission
rates are based on formula rates included in the PJM OATT that are cost-based and are unbundled in Ohio for OPCo, in
Virginia for APCo and in Michigan for I&M. AEP Texas’ retail transmission rates in Texas are unbundled but the retail
transmission rates are regulated, on a cost basis, by the PUCT. Bundled retail transmission rates are regulated, on a cost
basis, by the state commissions. Transmission rates for AEPTCo’s seven wholly-owned transmission subsidiaries
within the AEP Transmission Holdco segment are based on formula rates included in the applicable RTO’s OATT that
are cost-based.
In West Virginia, APCo and WPCo provide retail electric service at bundled rates approved by the WVPSC, with rates
set on a combined cost-of-service basis.
In addition, the FERC regulates the SIA, Operating Agreement, TA and TCA, all of which allocate shared system costs
and revenues among the utility subsidiaries that are parties to each agreement.  The FERC also regulates the PCA. See
Note 16 - Related Party Transactions for additional information.
Principles of Consolidation
AEP’s consolidated financial statements include its wholly-owned subsidiaries and VIEs, of which AEP is the primary
beneficiary. The consolidated financial statements for AEP Texas include the Registrant Subsidiary, its wholly-owned
subsidiaries, Transition Funding (consolidated VIEs) and Restoration Funding (a consolidated VIE). The consolidated
financial statements for APCo include the Registrant Subsidiary, its wholly-owned subsidiaries and Appalachian
Consumer Rate Relief Funding (a consolidated VIE).  The consolidated financial statements for I&M include the
Registrant Subsidiary, its wholly-owned subsidiaries and DCC Fuel (consolidated VIEs).  The consolidated financial
statements for SWEPCo include the Registrant Subsidiary, its wholly-owned subsidiary and Sabine (a consolidated
VIE).  Intercompany items are eliminated in consolidation.  
The equity method of accounting is used for equity investments where the Registrants exercise significant influence but
do not hold a controlling financial interest.  Such investments are initially recorded at cost in Deferred Charges and
Other Noncurrent Assets on the balance sheets. The proportionate share of the investee’s equity earnings or losses is
included in Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries on the statements of income.
AEP, I&M, PSO and SWEPCo have undivided ownership interests in generating units that are jointly-owned.  The
proportionate share of the operating costs associated with such facilities is included on the income statements and the
assets and liabilities are reflected on the balance sheets.  See Note 17 - Variable Interest Entities and Equity Method
Investments and Note 18 - Property, Plant and Equipment for additional information. In October 2020, AEP Texas, PSO
and a nonaffiliated joint-owner executed an Environmental Liability and Property Transfer and Asset Purchase
Agreement with a nonaffiliated third-party related to the Oklaunion Power Station site. See “Oklaunion Power Station”
section of Note 7 for additional information.
Accounting for the Effects of Cost-Based Regulation
The Registrants’ financial statements reflect the actions of regulators that result in the recognition of certain revenues
and expenses in different time periods than enterprises that are not rate-regulated.  In accordance with accounting
guidance for “Regulated Operations,” regulatory assets (deferred expenses) and regulatory liabilities (deferred revenue
reductions or refunds) are recorded to reflect the economic effects of regulation in the same accounting period by
matching expenses with their recovery through regulated revenues and by matching income with its passage to
customers in cost-based regulated rates.
230
Use of Estimates
The preparation of these financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.  These estimates
include, but are not limited to, inventory valuation, allowance for doubtful accounts, goodwill, intangible and long-
lived asset impairment, unbilled electricity revenue, valuation of long-term energy contracts, the effects of regulation,
long-lived asset recovery, storm costs, the effects of contingencies and certain assumptions made in accounting for
pension and postretirement benefits.  The estimates and assumptions used are based upon management’s evaluation of
the relevant facts and circumstances as of the date of the financial statements.  Actual results could ultimately differ
from those estimates.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and Cash Equivalents include temporary cash investments with original maturities of three months or less.
AEP System Tax Allocation
AEP and subsidiaries join in the filing of a consolidated federal income tax return. Historically, the allocation of the
AEP System’s current consolidated federal income tax to the AEP System companies allocated the benefit of current
tax loss of the parent company (Parent Company Loss Benefit) to the AEP System subsidiaries through a reduction of
current tax expense. In the first quarter of 2022, AEP and subsidiaries changed accounting for the Parent Company Loss
Benefit from a reduction of current tax expense to an allocation through equity. The impact of this change was
immaterial to the Registrant Subsidiaries’ financial statements. The consolidated NOL of the AEP System is allocated to
each company in the consolidated group with taxable loss. With the exception of the allocation of the consolidated AEP
System NOL, the loss of the Parent and tax credits, the method of allocation reflects a separate return result for each
company in the consolidated group.
Restricted Cash (Applies to AEP, AEP Texas and APCo)
Restricted Cash primarily includes funds held by trustees for the payment of securitization bonds.
Reconciliation of Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash
The following tables provide a reconciliation of Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash reported within the
balance sheets that sum to the total of the same amounts shown on the statement of cash flows:
December 31, 2022
AEP AEP Texas APCo
(in millions)
Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 509.4 $ 0.1 $ 7.5 
Restricted Cash 47.1 32.7 14.4 
Total Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash $ 556.5 $ 32.8 $ 21.9 
December 31, 2021
AEP AEP Texas APCo
(in millions)
Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 403.4 $ 0.1 $ 2.5 
Restricted Cash 48.0 30.4 17.6 
Total Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash $ 451.4 $ 30.5 $ 20.1 
231
Other Temporary Investments (Applies to AEP)
Other Temporary Investments primarily include marketable securities and investments by its protected cell of EIS.
These securities have readily determinable fair values and are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized
in net income.  The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification or weighted-average cost method. See
“Fair Value Measurements of Other Temporary Investments” section of Note 11 for additional information.
Inventory
Fossil fuel inventories are carried at average cost with the exception of AGR, which carries these inventories at the
lower of average cost or net realizable value.  Materials and supplies inventories are carried at average cost.
Accounts Receivable
Customer accounts receivable primarily include receivables from wholesale and retail energy customers, receivables
from energy contract counterparties related to risk management activities and customer receivables primarily related to
other revenue-generating activities.
Revenue is recognized over time as the performance obligations of delivering energy to customers are satisfied.  To the
extent that deliveries have occurred but a bill has not been issued, the Registrants accrue and recognize, as Accrued
Unbilled Revenues on the balance sheets, an estimate of the revenues for energy delivered since the last billing.
AEP Credit factors accounts receivable on a daily basis, excluding receivables from risk management activities,
through purchase agreements with I&M, KGPCo, OPCo, PSO, SWEPCo and a portion of APCo.  Since APCo does not
have regulatory authority to sell accounts receivable in its West Virginia regulatory jurisdiction, only a portion of
APCo’s accounts receivable are sold to AEP Credit.  AEP Credit has a receivables securitization agreement with bank
conduits. Under the securitization agreement, AEP Credit receives financing from bank conduits for the interest in the
billed and unbilled receivables they acquire from affiliated utility subsidiaries. See “Securitized Accounts Receivable –
AEP Credit” section of Note 14 for additional information.
Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts
Generally, AEP Credit records bad debt expense based upon a 12-month rolling average of bad debt write-offs in
proportion to gross accounts receivable purchased from participating AEP subsidiaries. The assessment is performed
separately by each participating AEP subsidiary, which inherently contemplates any differences in geographical risk
characteristics for the allowance. KPCo terminated selling accounts receivable to AEP Credit in the first quarter of
2022, based on the pending sale to Liberty. As a result of the termination, in the first quarter of 2022, KPCo recorded an
allowance for uncollectible accounts on its balance sheet for those receivables no longer sold to AEP Credit. For
receivables related to KPCo and APCo’s West Virginia operations, the bad debt reserve is calculated based on a rolling
two-year average write-off in proportion to gross accounts receivable. For customer accounts receivables relating to
risk management activities, accounts receivables are reviewed for bad debt reserves at a specific counterparty level
basis. For AEP Texas, bad debt reserves are calculated using the specific identification of receivable balances greater
than 120 days delinquent, and for those balances less than 120 days where the collection is doubtful. For miscellaneous
accounts receivable, bad debt expense is recorded based upon a 12-month rolling average of bad debt write-offs in
proportion to gross accounts receivable, unless specifically identified. In addition to these processes, management
contemplates available current information, as well as any reasonable and supportable forecast information, to
determine if allowances for uncollectible accounts should be further adjusted in accordance with the accounting
guidance for “Credit Losses.” Management’s assessments contemplate expected losses over the life of the accounts
receivable.
232
Concentrations of Credit Risk and Significant Customers (Applies to Registrant Subsidiaries)
APCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo do not have any significant customers that comprise 10% or more of their
operating revenues. AEP Texas had significant transactions with REPs which on a combined basis account for the
following percentages of Total Revenues for the years ended December 31 and Accounts Receivable – Customers as of
December 31:
Significant Customers of AEP Texas:   
Reliant Energy, Direct Energy and TXU Energy (a) 2022  2021  2020
Percentage of Total Revenues  45 % 43 % 46 %
Percentage of Accounts Receivable – Customers  42 % 41 % 40 %
(a)In January 2021, NRG Energy, parent company of Reliant Energy, completed a deal to purchase Direct
Energy from Centrica.
AEPTCo had significant transactions with AEP Subsidiaries which on a combined basis account for the following
percentages of Total Revenues for the years ended December 31 and Total Accounts Receivable as of December 31:
Significant Customers of AEPTCo:
AEP Subsidiaries 2022  2021 2020
Percentage of Total Revenues 79 % 79 % 78 %
Percentage of Total Accounts Receivable 72 % 81 % 78 %
The Registrant Subsidiaries monitor credit levels and the financial condition of their customers on a continuous basis to
minimize credit risk.  The regulatory commissions allow recovery in rates for a reasonable level of bad debt
costs.  Management believes adequate provisions for credit loss have been made in the accompanying Registrant
Subsidiary financial statements.
Renewable Energy Credits (Applies to all Registrants except AEP Texas and AEPTCo)
In regulated jurisdictions, the Registrants record renewable energy credits (RECs) at cost.  For AEP’s competitive
generation business, management records RECs at the lower of cost or net realizable value.  The Registrants follow the
inventory model for these RECs.  RECs expected to be consumed within one year are reported in Materials and
Supplies on the balance sheets.  RECs with expected consumption beyond one year are included in Deferred Charges
and Other Noncurrent Assets on the balance sheets. The purchases and sales of RECs are reported in the Operating
Activities section of the statements of cash flows. RECs that are consumed to meet applicable state renewable portfolio
standards are recorded in Fuel and Other Consumables Used for Electric Generation at an average cost on the
statements of income.  The net margin on sales of RECs affects the determination of deferred fuel and REC costs.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Regulated
Electric utility property, plant and equipment for rate-regulated operations are stated at original cost. Additions, major
replacements and betterments are added to the plant accounts.  Under the group composite method of depreciation,
continuous interim routine replacements of items such as boiler tubes, pumps, motors, etc. result in original cost
retirements, less salvage, being charged to accumulated depreciation.  The group composite method of depreciation
assumes that on average, asset components are retired at the end of their useful lives and thus there is no gain or
loss.  The equipment in each primary electric plant account is identified as a separate group.  The depreciation rates that
are established take into account the past history of interim capital replacements and the amount of removal cost
incurred and salvage received.  These rates and the related lives are subject to periodic review.  Removal costs accrued
are typically recorded as regulatory liabilities when the revenue received for
233
removal costs accrued exceeds actual removal costs incurred. The asset removal costs liability is relieved as removal
costs are incurred. A regulatory asset balance will occur if actual removal costs incurred exceed accumulated removal
costs accrued.
The costs of labor, materials and overhead incurred to operate and maintain plant and equipment are included in
operating expenses.
Nuclear fuel, including nuclear fuel in the fabrication phase, is included in Other Property, Plant and Equipment on the
balance sheets.
Long-lived assets are required to be tested for impairment when it is determined that the carrying value of the assets
may no longer be recoverable or when the assets meet the held-for-sale criteria under the accounting guidance for
“Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.”  When it becomes probable that an asset in-service or an asset under
construction will be abandoned and regulatory cost recovery has been disallowed or is not probable, the cost of that
asset shall be written down to its then current estimated fair value, with the change charged to expense, and the asset is
removed from plant-in-service or CWIP. The fair value of an asset is the amount at which that asset could be bought or
sold in a current transaction between willing parties, as opposed to a forced or liquidation sale.  Quoted market prices in
active markets are the best evidence of fair value and are used as the basis for the measurement, if available.  In the
absence of quoted prices for identical or similar assets in active markets, fair value is estimated using various internal
and external valuation methods including cash flow analysis and appraisals.
Nonregulated
Nonregulated operations generally follow the policies of rate-regulated operations listed above but with the following
exceptions.  Property, plant and equipment of nonregulated operations are stated at original cost (or as adjusted for any
applicable impairments) plus the original cost of property acquired or constructed since the acquisition, less
disposals.  Normal and routine retirements from the plant accounts, net of salvage, are charged to accumulated
depreciation for most nonregulated operations under the group composite method of depreciation.  A gain or loss would
be recorded if the retirement is not considered an interim routine replacement.  Removal costs are charged to expense.
Allowance for Funds Used During Construction and Interest Capitalization
For regulated operations, AFUDC represents the estimated cost of borrowed and equity funds used to finance
construction projects that is capitalized and recovered through depreciation over the service life of regulated electric
utility plant.  The Registrants record the equity component of AFUDC in Allowance for Equity Funds Used During
Construction and the debt component of AFUDC as a reduction to Interest Expense on the statements of income.  For
nonregulated operations, including certain generating assets, interest is capitalized during construction in accordance
with the accounting guidance for “Capitalization of Interest.”
Asset Retirement Obligations (Applies to all Registrants except AEPTCo)
The Registrants record ARO in accordance with the accounting guidance for “Asset Retirement and Environmental
Obligations” for legal obligations for asbestos removal and for the retirement of certain ash disposal facilities, wind
farms, solar farms and certain coal-mining facilities. I&M records ARO for the decommissioning of the Cook Plant.
AROs are computed as the present value of the estimated costs associated with the future retirement of an asset and are
recorded in the period in which the liability is incurred. Estimates of the timing and amounts of future cash outlays are
based on projections of when and how the assets will be decommissioned, inflation, and discount rate, which may
change significantly over time. The estimated costs are capitalized as part of the related long-lived asset and
depreciated over the asset's useful life. The Registrants have identified, but not recognized, ARO liabilities related to
electric transmission and distribution assets as a result of certain easements on property on which assets are owned.
Generally, such easements are perpetual and require only the retirement and removal of assets upon the cessation of the
property’s use. The retirement obligation is not estimable for such easements since
234
the Registrants plan to use their facilities indefinitely. The retirement obligation would only be recognized if and when
the Registrants abandon or cease the use of specific easements, which is not expected.
Valuation of Nonderivative Financial Instruments
The book values of Cash and Cash Equivalents, Advances to/from Affiliates, Accounts Receivable, Accounts Payable
and Short-term Debt approximate fair value because of the short-term maturity of these instruments.
Fair Value Measurements of Assets and Liabilities (Applies to all Registrants except AEPTCo)
The accounting guidance for “Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures” establishes a fair value hierarchy that
prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value.  The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in
active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurement) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs
(Level 3 measurement).  Where observable inputs are available for substantially the full term of the asset or liability,
the instrument is categorized in Level 2.  When quoted market prices are not available, pricing may be completed using
comparable securities, dealer values, operating data and general market conditions to determine fair value.  Valuation
models utilize various inputs such as commodity, interest rate and, to a lesser degree, volatility and credit that include
quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities
in inactive markets, market corroborated inputs (i.e. inputs derived principally from, or correlated to, observable market
data) and other observable inputs for the asset or liability.
For commercial activities, exchange-traded derivatives, namely futures contracts, are generally fair valued based on
unadjusted quoted prices in active markets and are classified as Level 1.  Level 2 inputs primarily consist of OTC
broker quotes in moderately active or less active markets, as well as exchange-traded derivatives where there is
insufficient market liquidity to warrant inclusion in Level 1.  Management verifies price curves using these broker
quotes and classifies these fair values within Level 2 when substantially all of the fair value can be
corroborated.  Management typically obtains multiple broker quotes, which are nonbinding in nature but are based on
recent trades in the marketplace.  When multiple broker quotes are obtained, the quoted bid and ask prices are
averaged.  In certain circumstances, a broker quote may be discarded if it is a clear outlier.  Management uses a
historical correlation analysis between the broker quoted location and the illiquid locations.  If the points are highly
correlated, these locations are included within Level 2 as well.  Certain OTC and bilaterally executed derivative
instruments are executed in less active markets with a lower availability of pricing information.  Illiquid transactions,
complex structured transactions, FTRs and counterparty credit risk may require nonmarket-based inputs.  Some of these
inputs may be internally developed or extrapolated and utilized to estimate fair value.  When such inputs have a
significant impact on the measurement of fair value, the instrument is categorized as Level 3.  The main driver of
contracts being classified as Level 3 is the inability to substantiate energy price curves in the market.  A portion of the
Level 3 instruments have been economically hedged which limits potential earnings volatility.
AEP utilizes its trustee’s external pricing service to estimate the fair value of the underlying investments held in the
benefit plan and nuclear trusts.  AEP’s investment managers review and validate the prices utilized by the trustee to
determine fair value.  AEP’s management performs its own valuation testing to verify the fair values of the
securities.  AEP receives audit reports of the trustee’s operating controls and valuation processes.  
Assets in the benefits and nuclear trusts, cash and cash equivalents, other temporary investments and restricted cash for
securitized funding are classified using the following methods.  Equities are classified as Level 1 holdings if they are
actively traded on exchanges.  Items classified as Level 1 are investments in money market funds, fixed income and
equity mutual funds and equity securities.  They are valued based on observable inputs, primarily unadjusted quoted
prices in active markets for identical assets.  Items classified as Level 2 are primarily investments in individual fixed
income securities.  Fixed income securities generally do not trade on exchanges and do not have an official closing
price but their valuation inputs are based on observable market data.  Pricing vendors calculate bond valuations using
financial models and matrices.  The models use observable inputs including yields on benchmark securities, quotes by
securities brokers, rating agency actions, discounts or premiums on securities
235
compared to par prices, changes in yields for U.S. Treasury securities, corporate actions by bond issuers, prepayment
schedules and histories, economic events and, for certain securities, adjustments to yields to reflect changes in the rate
of inflation.  Other securities with model-derived valuation inputs that are observable are also classified as Level 2
investments.  Investments with unobservable valuation inputs are classified as Level 3 investments.  Investments
classified as Other are valued using Net Asset Value as a practical expedient. Items classified as Other are primarily
cash equivalent funds, common collective trusts, commingled funds, structured products, private equity, real estate,
infrastructure and alternative credit investments. These investments do not have a readily determinable fair value or
they contain redemption restrictions which may include the right to suspend redemptions under certain circumstances.
Redemption restrictions may also prevent certain investments from being redeemed at the reporting date for the
underlying value.
Deferred Fuel Costs (Applies to all Registrants except AEP Texas, AEPTCo and OPCo)
The cost of purchased electricity, fuel and related emission allowances and emission control chemicals/consumables is
charged to Purchased Electricity, Fuel and Other Consumables Used for Electric Generation expense when the fuel is
burned or the allowance or consumable is utilized. The cost of fuel also includes the cost of nuclear fuel burned which
is computed primarily using the units-of-production method. In regulated jurisdictions with an active FAC, fuel cost
over-recoveries (the excess of fuel-related revenues over applicable fuel costs incurred) are generally deferred as
current regulatory liabilities and under-recoveries (the excess of applicable fuel costs incurred over fuel-related
revenues) are generally deferred as current regulatory assets. Fuel cost over-recovery and under-recovery balances are
classified as noncurrent when there is an expectation that refunds or recoveries will extend beyond a one year period,
based on a company’s filing with a commission or a commission directive. These deferrals are incorporated into the
development of future fuel rates billed to or refunded to customers. The amount of an over-recovery or under-recovery
can also be affected by actions of the state regulatory commissions. On a routine basis, state regulatory commissions
review and/or audit the Registrants’ fuel procurement policies and practices, the fuel cost calculations and FAC
deferrals. FAC deferrals are adjusted when costs are no longer probable of recovery or when refunds of fuel reserves
are probable. The Registrants share the majority of their Off-system Sales margins to customers either through an active
FAC or other rate mechanisms. Where the FAC or Off-system Sales sharing mechanism is capped, frozen, non-existent
or not applicable to merchant operations, changes in fuel costs or sharing of Off-system Sales impact earnings.
Revenue Recognition
Regulatory Accounting
The Registrants’ financial statements reflect the actions of regulators that can result in the recognition of revenues and
expenses in different time periods than enterprises that are not rate-regulated.  Regulatory assets (deferred expenses or
alternative revenues recognized in accordance with the guidance for “Regulated Operations”) and regulatory liabilities
(deferred revenue reductions or refunds) are recorded to reflect the economic effects of regulation in the same
accounting period by matching expenses with their recovery through regulated revenues and by matching revenue with
its passage to customers in cost-based regulated rates.
When regulatory assets are probable of recovery through regulated rates, assets are recorded on the balance
sheets.  Regulatory assets are reviewed for probability of recovery at each balance sheet date or whenever new events
occur.  Examples of new events include the issuance of a regulatory commission order or passage of new legislation.  If
it is determined that recovery of a regulatory asset is no longer probable, the regulatory asset is derecognized as a
charge against income.
Retail and Wholesale Supply and Delivery of Electricity
The Registrants recognize revenues from customers for retail and wholesale electricity sales and electricity
transmission and distribution delivery services.  The Registrants recognize such revenues on the statements of income
as the performance obligations of delivering energy to customers are satisfied. Recognized revenues include both billed
and unbilled amounts.  In accordance with the applicable state commission’s regulatory
236
treatment, PSO and SWEPCo do not include the fuel portion in unbilled revenue, but rather recognize such revenues
when billed to customers.
Wholesale transmission revenue is based on FERC-approved formula rate filings made for each calendar year using
estimated costs. Revenues initially recognized per the annual rate filing are compared to actual costs, resulting in the
subsequent recognition of an over or under-recovered amount, with interest, that is refunded or recovered, respectively,
in a future year’s rates. These annual true-ups meet the definition of alternative revenues in accordance with the
accounting guidance for “Regulated Operations”. An estimated annual true-up is recorded by the Registrants in the
fourth quarter of each calendar year and a final annual true-up is recognized by the Registrants in the second quarter of
each calendar year following the filing of annual FERC reports. Any portion of the true-ups applicable to an affiliated
company is recorded as Accounts Receivable - Affiliated Companies or Accounts Payable - Affiliated Companies on
the balance sheets. Any portion of the true-ups applicable to third-parties is recorded as Regulatory Assets or
Regulatory Liabilities on the balance sheets. See Note 19 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers for additional
information.
Gross versus Net Presentation of Certain Electricity Supply and Delivery Activities
Most of the power produced at the generation plants is sold to PJM or SPP.  The Registrants also purchase power from
PJM and SPP to supply power to customers.  Generally, these power sales and purchases are reported on a net basis as
revenues on the statements of income.  However, purchases of power in excess of sales to PJM or SPP, on an hourly net
basis, used to serve retail load are recorded gross as Purchased Electricity for Resale on the statements of income. With
the exception of certain dedicated load bilateral power supply contracts, the transactions of AEP’s nonregulated
subsidiaries are reported as gross purchases or sales.
Physical energy purchases arising from non-derivative contracts are accounted for on a gross basis in Purchased
Electricity for Resale on the statements of income.  Energy purchases arising from non-trading derivative contracts are
recorded based on the transaction’s facts and circumstances.  Purchases under non-trading derivatives used to serve
accrual based obligations are recorded in Purchased Electricity for Resale on the statements of income.  All other non-
trading derivative purchases are recorded net in revenues.
In general, the Registrants record expenses when purchased electricity is received and when expenses are incurred, with
the exception of certain power purchase contracts that are derivatives and accounted for using MTM accounting where
generation/supply rates are not cost-based regulated.  In jurisdictions where the generation/supply business is subject to
cost-based regulation, the unrealized MTM amounts are deferred as regulatory assets (for losses) and regulatory
liabilities (for gains).
Energy Marketing and Risk Management Activities (Applies to all Registrants except AEPTCo)
The Registrants engage in power, capacity and, to a lesser extent, natural gas marketing as major power producers and
participants in electricity and natural gas markets. The Registrants also engage in power, capacity, coal, natural gas and,
to a lesser extent, heating oil, gasoline and other commodity risk management activities focused on markets where the
AEP System owns assets and on adjacent markets.  These activities include the purchase-and-sale of energy under
forward contracts at fixed and variable prices.  These contracts include physical transactions, exchange-traded futures,
and to a lesser extent, OTC swaps and options.  Certain energy marketing and risk management transactions are with
RTOs.
The Registrants recognize revenues from marketing and risk management transactions that are not derivatives as the
performance obligation of delivering the commodity is satisfied. Expenses from marketing and risk management
transactions that are not derivatives are also recognized upon delivery of the commodity.
The Registrants use MTM accounting for marketing and risk management transactions that are derivatives unless the
derivative is designated in a qualifying cash flow hedge relationship or elected normal under the normal purchase
normal sale election. Unrealized MTM gains and losses are included on the balance sheets as Risk
237
Management Assets or Liabilities, as appropriate, and on the statements of income in Total Revenues. Realized gains
and losses on marketing and risk management transactions are included in revenues or expenses based on the
transaction’s facts and circumstances. However, in regulated jurisdictions subject to cost-based regulation, unrealized
MTM amounts and some realized gains and losses are deferred as regulatory assets (for losses) and regulatory liabilities
(for gains).
Certain qualifying marketing and risk management derivatives transactions are designated as hedges of variability in
future cash flows as a result of forecasted transactions (cash flow hedge).  In the event the Registrants designate a cash
flow hedge, the cash flow hedge’s gain or loss is initially recorded as a component of AOCI.  When the forecasted
transaction is realized and affects net income, the Registrants subsequently reclassify the gain or loss on the hedge from
AOCI into revenues or expenses within the same financial statement line item as the forecasted transaction on their
statements of income. See “Accounting for Cash Flow Hedging Strategies” section of Note 10 for additional
information.
Levelization of Nuclear Refueling Outage Costs (Applies to AEP and I&M)
In accordance with regulatory orders, I&M defers incremental operation and maintenance costs associated with
periodic refueling outages at its Cook Plant and amortizes the costs over approximately 18 months, beginning with the
month following the start of each unit’s refueling outage and lasting until the end of the month in which the same unit’s
next scheduled refueling outage begins.
Maintenance
The Registrants expense maintenance costs as incurred.  If it becomes probable that the Registrants will recover
specifically-incurred costs through future rates, a regulatory asset is established to match the expensing of those
maintenance costs with their recovery in cost-based regulated revenues.  In certain regulated jurisdictions, the
Registrants defer costs above the level included in base rates and amortize those deferrals commensurate with recovery
through rate riders.
Income Taxes and Investment and Production Tax Credits
The Registrants use the liability method of accounting for income taxes.  Under the liability method, deferred income
taxes are provided for all temporary differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities which will
result in a future tax consequence. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to
apply to taxable income in the years in which the temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled.
When the flow-through method of accounting for temporary differences is required by a regulator to be reflected in
regulated revenues (that is, when deferred taxes are not included in the cost-of-service for determining regulated rates
for electricity), deferred income taxes are recorded and related regulatory assets and liabilities are established to match
the regulated revenues and tax expense.
AEP and subsidiaries apply the deferral methodology for the recognition of ITCs. Deferred ITCs are amortized to
income tax expense over the life of the asset that generated the credit. Amortization of deferred ITCs begins when the
asset is placed in-service, except where regulatory commissions reflect ITCs in the rate-making process, then
amortization begins when the utility is able to utilize the ITC on a stand-alone basis. Alternatively, PTCs reduce income
tax expense as they are earned. PTCs are earned when electricity is produced.
The Registrants account for uncertain tax positions in accordance with the accounting guidance for “Income
Taxes.”  The Registrants classify interest expense or income related to uncertain tax positions as interest expense or
income as appropriate and classify penalties as Other Operation expense on the statements of income.
238
Excise Taxes (Applies to all Registrants except AEPTCo)
As agents for some state and local governments, the Registrants collect from customers certain excise taxes levied by
those state or local governments on customers.  The Registrants do not record these taxes as revenue or expense.
Debt
Gains and losses from the reacquisition of debt used to finance regulated electric utility plants are deferred and
amortized over the remaining term of the reacquired debt in accordance with their rate-making treatment unless the
debt is refinanced.  If the reacquired debt associated with the regulated business is refinanced, the reacquisition costs
attributable to the portions of the business that are subject to cost-based regulatory accounting are generally deferred
and amortized over the term of the replacement debt consistent with its recovery in rates.  Operations not subject to
cost-based rate regulation report gains and losses on the reacquisition of debt in Interest Expense on the statements of
income upon reacquisition.
Debt discount or premium and debt issuance expenses are deferred and amortized generally utilizing the straight-line
method over the term of the related debt.  The straight-line method approximates the effective interest method and is
consistent with the treatment in rates for regulated operations.  The net amortization expense is included in Interest
Expense on the statements of income.
Goodwill (Applies to AEP)
When the Registrants acquire a business, as defined by the accounting guidance for “Business Combinations,”
management recognizes all acquired assets and liabilities at their fair value.  To the extent that consideration exceeds
the net fair value of the identified assets and liabilities, goodwill is recognized on the balance sheets.  Goodwill is not
amortized.  Management tests acquired goodwill at the reporting unit level for impairment at least annually at its
estimated fair value. Fair value is the amount at which an asset or liability could be bought or sold in a current
transaction between willing parties other than in a forced or liquidation sale.  Quoted market prices in active markets
are the best evidence of fair value and are used as the basis for the measurement, if available.  In the absence of quoted
prices for identical or similar assets in active markets, management estimates fair value using various internal and
external valuation methods.  
Pension and OPEB Plans (Applies to all Registrants except AEPTCo)
AEP sponsors a qualified pension plan and two unfunded non-qualified pension plans.  Substantially all AEP
employees are covered by the qualified plan or both the qualified and a non-qualified pension plan.  AEP also sponsors
OPEB plans to provide health and life insurance benefits for retired employees.  The Registrant Subsidiaries account
for their participation in the AEP sponsored pension and OPEB plans using multiple-employer accounting.  See Note 8
- Benefit Plans for additional information including significant accounting policies associated with the plans.
Investments Held in Trust for Future Liabilities (Applies to all Registrants except AEPTCo)
AEP has several trust funds with significant investments intended to provide for future payments of pension and OPEB
benefits, nuclear decommissioning and SNF disposal.  All of the trust funds’ investments are diversified and managed
in compliance with all laws and regulations.  The investment strategy for the trust funds is to use a diversified portfolio
of investments to achieve an acceptable rate of return while managing the investment risk of the assets relative to the
associated liabilities.  To minimize investment risk, the trust funds are broadly diversified among classes of assets,
investment strategies and investment managers.  Management regularly reviews the actual asset allocations and
periodically rebalances the investments to targeted allocations when appropriate.  Investment policies and guidelines
allow investment managers in approved strategies to use financial derivatives to obtain or manage market exposures
and to hedge assets and liabilities.  The investments are reported at fair value under the “Fair Value Measurements and
Disclosures” accounting guidance.
239
Benefit Plans
All benefit plan assets are invested in accordance with each plan’s investment policy.  The investment policy outlines
the investment objectives, strategies and target asset allocations by plan.
The investment philosophies for AEP’s benefit plans support the allocation of assets to minimize risks and optimize net
returns.  Strategies used include:
•Maintaining a long-term investment horizon.
•Diversifying assets to help control volatility of returns at acceptable levels.
•Managing fees, transaction costs and tax liabilities to maximize investment earnings.
•Using active management of investments where appropriate risk/return opportunities exist.
•Keeping portfolio structure style-neutral to limit volatility compared to applicable benchmarks.
•Using alternative asset classes such as real estate and private equity to maximize return and provide additional
portfolio diversification.
The objective of the investment policy for the pension fund is to maintain the funded status of the plan while providing
for growth in the plan assets to offset the growth in the plan liabilities.  The current target asset allocations are as
follows:
Pension Plan Assets Target
Equity 30 %
Fixed Income 54 %
Other Investments 15 %
Cash and Cash Equivalents 1 %
OPEB Plans Assets Target
Equity 59 %
Fixed Income 40 %
Cash and Cash Equivalents 1 %
The investment policy for each benefit plan contains various investment limitations.  The investment policies establish
concentration limits for securities and prohibit the purchase of securities issued by AEP (with the exception of
proportionate and immaterial holdings of AEP securities in passive index strategies or certain commingled
funds).  However, the investment policies do not preclude the benefit trust funds from receiving contributions in the
form of AEP securities, provided that the AEP securities acquired by each plan may not exceed the limitations imposed
by law.
For equity investments, the concentration limits are generally as follows:
•No security in excess of 5% of all equities.
•Cash equivalents must be less than 10% of an investment manager’s equity portfolio.
•No individual stock may be more than 10% and 7% for pension and OPEB investments, respectively, of each
manager’s equity portfolio.
•No securities may be bought or sold on margin or other use of leverage.
For fixed income investments, each investment manager’s portfolio is compared to investment grade, diversified long
and intermediate benchmark indices.
A portion of the pension assets is invested in real estate funds to provide diversification, add return and hedge against
inflation.  Real estate properties are illiquid, difficult to value and not actively traded.  The pension plan uses external
real estate investment managers to invest in commingled funds that hold real estate properties.  To mitigate investment
risk in the real estate portfolio, commingled real estate funds are used to ensure that holdings are
240
diversified by region, property type and risk classification.  Real estate holdings include core, value-added and
opportunistic classifications.
A portion of the pension assets is invested in private equity.  Private equity investments add return and provide
diversification and typically require a long-term time horizon to evaluate investment performance.  Private equity is
classified as an alternative investment because it is illiquid, difficult to value and not actively traded.  The pension plan
uses limited partnerships to invest across the private equity investment spectrum.   The private equity holdings are with
multiple general partners who help monitor the investments and provide investment selection expertise.  The holdings
are currently comprised of venture capital, buyout and hybrid debt and equity investments.  
AEP participates in a securities lending program with BNY Mellon to provide incremental income on idle assets and to
provide income to offset custody fees and other administrative expenses.  AEP lends securities to borrowers approved
by BNY Mellon in exchange for collateral.  All loans are collateralized by at least 102% of the loaned asset’s market
value and the collateral is invested.  The difference between the rebate owed to the borrower and the collateral rate of
return determines the earnings on the loaned security.  The securities lending program’s objective is to provide modest
incremental income with a limited increase in risk. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the fair value of securities on
loan as part of the program was $83 million and $137 million, respectively. Cash and securities obtained as collateral
exceeded the fair value of the securities loaned as of December 31, 2022 and 2021.
Trust owned life insurance (TOLI) underwritten by The Prudential Insurance Company is held in the OPEB plan
trusts.  The strategy for holding life insurance contracts in the taxable Voluntary Employees’ Beneficiary Association
trust is to minimize taxes paid on the asset growth in the trust.  Earnings on plan assets are tax-deferred within the TOLI
contract and can be tax-free if held until claims are paid.  Life insurance proceeds remain in the trust and are used to
fund future retiree medical benefit liabilities.  With consideration to other investments held in the trust, the cash value
of the TOLI contracts is invested in two diversified funds.  A portion is invested in a commingled fund with underlying
investments in stocks that are actively traded on major international equity exchanges.  The other portion of the TOLI
cash value is invested in a diversified, commingled fixed income fund with underlying investments in government
bonds, corporate bonds and asset-backed securities.
Cash and cash equivalents are held in each trust to provide liquidity and meet short-term cash needs. Cash equivalent
funds are used to provide diversification and preserve principal.  The underlying holdings in the cash funds are
investment grade money market instruments including commercial paper, certificates of deposit, treasury bills and other
types of investment grade short-term debt securities.  The cash funds are valued each business day and provide daily
liquidity.
Nuclear Trust Funds (Applies to AEP and I&M)
Nuclear decommissioning and SNF trust funds represent funds that regulatory commissions allow I&M to collect
through rates to fund future decommissioning and SNF disposal liabilities.  By rules or orders, the IURC, the MPSC
and the FERC established investment limitations and general risk management guidelines.  In general, limitations
include:
•Acceptable investments (rated investment grade or above when purchased).
•Maximum percentage invested in a specific type of investment.
•Prohibition of investment in obligations of AEP, I&M or their affiliates.
•Withdrawals permitted only for payment of decommissioning costs and trust expenses.
I&M maintains trust funds for each regulatory jurisdiction.  Regulatory approval is required to withdraw
decommissioning funds.  These funds are managed by an external investment manager that must comply with the
guidelines and rules of the applicable regulatory authorities. The trust assets are invested to optimize the net of tax
earnings of the trust giving consideration to liquidity, risk, diversification and other prudent investment objectives.
241
I&M records securities held in these trust funds in Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Trusts on its balance
sheets.  I&M records these securities at fair value.  I&M classifies debt securities in the trust funds as available-for-sale
due to their long-term purpose.
Other-than-temporary impairments for investments in debt securities are considered realized losses as a result of
securities being managed by an external investment management firm.  The external investment management firm
makes specific investment decisions regarding the debt and equity investments held in these trusts and generally
intends to sell debt securities in an unrealized loss position as part of a tax optimization strategy.  Impairments reduce
the cost basis of the securities which will affect any future unrealized gain or realized gain or loss due to the adjusted
cost of investment.  I&M records unrealized gains, unrealized losses and other-than-temporary impairments from
securities in these trust funds as adjustments to the regulatory liability account for the nuclear decommissioning trust
funds and to regulatory assets or liabilities for the SNF disposal trust funds in accordance with their treatment in
rates.  Consequently, changes in fair value of trust assets do not affect earnings or AOCI.  See the “Nuclear
Contingencies” section of Note 6 for additional discussion of nuclear matters.  See “Fair Value Measurements of Trust
Assets for Decommissioning and SNF Disposal” section of Note 11 for disclosure of the fair value of assets within the
trusts.
Comprehensive Income (Loss) (Applies to all Registrants except AEPTCo and OPCo)
Comprehensive income (loss) is defined as the change in equity (net assets) of a business enterprise during a period
from transactions and other events and circumstances from non-owner sources.  It includes all changes in equity during
a period except those resulting from investments by owners and distributions to owners.  Comprehensive income (loss)
has two components: net income (loss) and other comprehensive income (loss).
Stock-Based Compensation Plans
As of December 31, 2022, AEP had performance shares and restricted stock units outstanding under the American
Electric Power System 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan (2015 LTIP).  Upon vesting, all outstanding performance shares
and restricted stock units settle in AEP common stock. All performance units awarded prior to 2017 and restricted stock
units granted after January 1, 2013 and prior to January 1, 2017 that vested to executive officers were settled in cash.
During 2019, all of the remaining performance units and restricted stock units that settle in cash were settled. The
impact of AEP’s stock-based compensation plans are insignificant to the financial statements of the Registrant
Subsidiaries.
AEP maintains a variety of tax qualified and non-qualified deferred compensation plans for employees and non-
employee directors that include, among other options, an investment in or an investment return equivalent to that of
AEP common stock.  This includes AEP career shares maintained under the American Electric Power System Stock
Ownership Requirement Plan (SORP), which facilitates executives in meeting minimum stock ownership requirements
assigned to them by the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors.  AEP career shares are derived from
vested performance shares granted to employees under the 2015 LTIP and previous long-term incentive plans. AEP
career shares accrue additional dividend shares in an amount equal to dividends paid on AEP common shares at the
closing market price on the dividend payments date. All AEP career shares are settled in shares of AEP common stock
after the executive’s service with AEP ends.
Performance shares awarded after January 1, 2017 are classified as temporary equity in the Mezzanine Equity section
of the balance sheets until the awards vest. Upon vesting, the performance shares are classified as permanent equity.
These awards may be settled in cash upon an employee’s qualifying termination due to a change in control. Because
such event is not solely within the control of the company, these awards are classified outside of permanent equity until
the awards vest.
AEP compensates their non-employee directors, in part, with stock units under the American Electric Power Company,
Inc. Stock Unit Accumulation Plan for Non-Employee Directors.  These stock units were payable in cash
242
to directors after their service ends. Effective in June 2022, these stock units became payable in AEP common stock
rather than cash.
Management measures and recognizes compensation expense for all share-based payment awards to employees and
directors based on estimated fair values. For share-based payment awards with service only vesting conditions,
management recognizes compensation expense on a straight-line basis.  Stock-based compensation expense recognized
on the statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 is based on the number of
outstanding awards at the end of each period without a reduction for estimated forfeitures. AEP accounts for forfeitures
in the period in which they occur.
For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, compensation costs are included in Net Income for the
performance shares, career shares, restricted stock units and the non-employee director stock units. Compensation costs
may also be capitalized. See Note 15 - Stock-based Compensation for additional information.
Equity Method Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Applies to AEP and SWEPCo)
The equity method of accounting is used for equity investments where either AEP or SWEPCo exercise significant
influence but do not hold a controlling financial interest. Such investments are initially recorded at cost in Deferred
Charges and Other Noncurrent Assets on the balance sheets. The proportionate share of the investee’s equity earnings
or losses is included in Equity Earnings (Loss) of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries on the statements of income. AEP and
SWEPCo regularly monitor and evaluate equity method investments to determine whether they are impaired. An
impairment is recognized when the investment has experienced a loss in value that is other-than-temporary in nature.
AEP’s significant equity method investments include ETT, DHLC and four joint venture interests which own distinct
wind generation facilities. See Note 17 - Variable Interest Entities and Equity Method Investments for additional
information.
Earnings Per Share (EPS) (Applies to AEP)
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing net earnings available to common shareholders by the weighted-average number of
common shares outstanding during the period.  Diluted EPS is calculated by adjusting the weighted-average
outstanding common shares, assuming conversion of all potentially dilutive stock awards.
The following table presents AEP’s basic and diluted EPS calculations included on the statements of income:
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions, except per-share data)
$/share $/share $/share
Earnings Attributable to AEP Common
Shareholders $2,307.2 $2,488.1 $2,200.1 
Weighted-Average Number of Basic AEP
Common Shares Outstanding 511.8 $4.51 500.5 $4.97 495.7 $ 4.44 
Weighted-Average Dilutive Effect of Stock-
Based Awards 1.7 (0.02) 1.3 (0.01) 1.5 (0.02)
Weighted-Average Number of Diluted
AEP Common Shares Outstanding 513.5 $4.49 501.8 $4.96 497.2 $ 4.42 
Equity Units are potentially dilutive securities but were excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS for the years
ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, as the dilutive stock price thresholds were not met. See Note 14 - Financing
Activities for additional information related to Equity Units.
243
There were no antidilutive shares outstanding as of December 31, 2022 and 2021. There were 128 thousand antidilutive
shares outstanding as of December 31, 2020.
Supplementary Income Statement Information
The following tables provide the components of Depreciation and Amortization for the years ended December 31,
2022, 2021 and 2020:
2022
Depreciation and Amortization AEP AEP Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Depreciation and Amortization of
Property, Plant and Equipment$3,072.8 $ 363.5 $ 346.2 $ 576.1 $ 511.9 $ 293.1 $ 226.2 $ 319.3 
Amortization of Certain Securitized
Assets 93.3 93.3 — — — — — — 
Amortization of Regulatory Assets
and Liabilities 36.7 (4.4) — (0.2) 15.3 1.2 3.9 5.5 
Total Depreciation and
Amortization $3,202.8 $ 452.4 $ 346.2 $ 575.9 $ 527.2 $ 294.3 $ 230.1 $ 324.8 
2021
Depreciation and Amortization AEP AEP Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Depreciation and Amortization of
Property, Plant and Equipment$2,717.1 $ 327.2 $ 297.3 $ 547.0 $ 424.9 $ 301.1 $ 185.9 $ 292.9 
Amortization of Certain Securitized
Assets 64.2 64.2 — — — — — — 
Amortization of Regulatory Assets
and Liabilities 44.4 (4.4) — (0.8) 21.1 2.2 10.7 2.1 
Total Depreciation and
Amortization $2,825.7 $ 387.0 $ 297.3 $ 546.2 $ 446.0 $ 303.3 $ 196.6 $ 295.0 
2020
Depreciation and Amortization AEP AEP Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Depreciation and Amortization of
Property, Plant and Equipment$2,487.5 $ 364.2 $ 249.0 $ 507.8 $ 393.3 $ 275.0 $ 171.9 $ 271.2 
Amortization of Certain Securitized
Assets 171.3 171.3 — — — — — — 
Amortization of Regulatory Assets
and Liabilities 24.0 (5.7) — (0.3) 18.3 1.6 1.6 1.5 
Total Depreciation and
Amortization $2,682.8 $ 529.8 $ 249.0 $ 507.5 $ 411.6 $ 276.6 $ 173.5 $ 272.7 
244
Supplementary Cash Flow Information (Applies to AEP)
Years Ended December 31,
Cash Flow Information 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Cash Paid (Received) for:
Interest, Net of Capitalized Amounts $ 1,286.3 $ 1,137.2 $ 1,029.1 
Income Taxes 116.8 13.2 (49.1)
Noncash Investing and Financing Activities:
Acquisitions Under Finance Leases 31.8 287.6 44.2 
Construction Expenditures Included in Current Liabilities as of
December 31, 1,258.9 1,180.4 975.4 
Construction Expenditures Included in Noncurrent Liabilities as
of December 31, — — 5.5 
Acquisition of Nuclear Fuel Included in Current Liabilities as of
December 31, — — 33.4 
Noncash Contribution of Assets to Cedar Creek Project — (9.3) — 
Noncontrolling Interest Assumed - Dry Lake Solar Project — 35.3 — 
Forward Equity Purchase Contracts Included in Current and
Noncurrent Liabilities as of December 31, — — 110.6 
245
2. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
The disclosures in this note apply to all Registrants unless indicated otherwise.
During the FASB’s standard-setting process and upon issuance of final standards, management reviews the new
accounting literature to determine its relevance, if any, to the Registrants’ business. There are no new standards
expected to have a material impact on the Registrants’ financial statements.
246
3.  COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
The disclosures in this note apply to all Registrants except AEPTCo and OPCo.
Presentation of Comprehensive Income
The following tables provide the components of changes in AOCI and details of reclassifications from AOCI for the
years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020.  The amortization of pension and OPEB AOCI components are
included in the computation of net periodic pension and OPEB costs. See Note 8 - Benefit Plans for additional
information.
AEP
Cash Flow Hedges Pension and OPEB  
For the Year Ended December 31, 2022 Commodity Interest RateAmortization of
Deferred CostsChanges in
Funded Status Total
 (in millions)
Balance in AOCI as of December 31, 2021 $ 163.7 $ (21.3) $ 115.6 $ (73.2)$ 184.8 
Change in Fair Value Recognized in AOCI, Net of Tax 477.3 18.4 (a) — (155.4) 340.3 
Amount of (Gain) Loss Reclassified from AOCI
Generation & Marketing Revenues (b) 0.1 — — — 0.1 
Purchased Electricity for Resale (b) (528.6) — — — (528.6)
Interest Expense (b) — 4.0 — — 4.0 
Amortization of Prior Service Cost (Credit) — — (21.8) — (21.8)
Amortization of Actuarial (Gains) Losses — — 8.6 — 8.6 
Reclassifications from AOCI, before Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (528.5) 4.0 (13.2) — (537.7)
Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (111.0) 0.8 (2.8) — (113.0)
Reclassifications from AOCI, Net of Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (417.5) 3.2 (10.4) — (424.7)
Reclassifications of KPCo Pension and OPEB Regulatory Assets to
AOCI — — — (21.1) (21.1)
Income Tax (Expense) Benefit — — — (4.4) (4.4)
Reclassifications of KPCo Pension and OPEB Regulatory Assets to
AOCI, Net of Income Tax (Expense) Benefit — — — (16.7) (16.7)
Net Current Period Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 59.8 21.6 (10.4) (172.1) (101.1)
Balance in AOCI as of December 31, 2022 $ 223.5 $ 0.3 $ 105.2 $ (245.3)$ 83.7 
247
AEP
 Cash Flow Hedges Pension and OPEB  
For the Year Ended December 31, 2021 CommodityInterest
RateAmortization
of Deferred
CostsChanges in
Funded
Status Total
 (in millions)
Balance in AOCI as of December 31, 2020 $ (60.6)$ (47.5) $ 123.7 $ (100.7)$ (85.1)
Change in Fair Value Recognized in AOCI, Net of Tax 488.2 21.1 (a) — 27.5 536.8 
Amount of (Gain) Loss Reclassified from AOCI
Generation & Marketing Revenues (b) 0.7 — — — 0.7 
Purchased Electricity for Resale (b) (334.8) — — — (334.8)
Interest Expense (b) — 6.5 — — 6.5 
Amortization of Prior Service Cost (Credit) — — (19.4) — (19.4)
Amortization of Actuarial (Gains) Losses — — 9.1 — 9.1 
Reclassifications from AOCI, before Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (334.1) 6.5 (10.3) — (337.9)
Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (70.2) 1.4 (2.2) — (71.0)
Reclassifications from AOCI, Net of Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (263.9) 5.1 (8.1) — (266.9)
Net Current Period Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 224.3 26.2 (8.1) 27.5 269.9 
Balance in AOCI as of December 31, 2021 $ 163.7 $ (21.3) $ 115.6 $ (73.2)$ 184.8 
 Cash Flow Hedges Pension and OPEB  
For the Year Ended December 31, 2020 CommodityInterest
RateAmortization
of Deferred
CostsChanges in
Funded
Status Total
 (in millions)
Balance in AOCI as of December 31, 2019 $ (103.5)$ (11.5) $ 130.7 $ (163.4)$ (147.7)
Change in Fair Value Recognized in AOCI, Net of Tax (89.2) (39.9)(a) — 62.7 (66.4)
Amount of (Gain) Loss Reclassified from AOCI
Generation & Marketing Revenues (b) (0.4) — — — (0.4)
Purchased Electricity for Resale (b) 167.6 — — — 167.6 
Interest Expense (b) — 4.9 — — 4.9 
Amortization of Prior Service Cost (Credit) — — (19.2) — (19.2)
Amortization of Actuarial (Gains) Losses — — 10.3 — 10.3 
Reclassifications from AOCI, before Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 167.2 4.9 (8.9) — 163.2 
Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 35.1 1.0 (1.9) — 34.2 
Reclassifications from AOCI, Net of Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 132.1 3.9 (7.0) — 129.0 
Net Current Period Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 42.9 (36.0) (7.0) 62.7 62.6 
Balance in AOCI as of December 31, 2020 $ (60.6)$ (47.5) $ 123.7 $ (100.7)$ (85.1)
248
AEP  Texas
Pension and OPEB
Amortization Changes in
Cash Flow Hedge – of Deferr ed Funded
For the Year Ended December  31, 2022 Inter est Rate Costs Status Total
(in millions)
Balance in AOCI as of December  31, 2021 $ (1.3)$ 5.3 $ (10.5)$ (6.5)
Change in Fair Value Recognized in AOCI, Net of Tax — — (3.2) (3.2)
Amount of (Gain) Loss Reclassified from AOCI
Interest Expense (b) 1.3 — — 1.3 
Amortization of Prior Service Cost (Credit) — (0.1) — (0.1)
Amortization of Actuarial (Gains) Losses — 0.2 — 0.2 
Reclassifications from AOCI, before Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 1.3 0.1 — 1.4 
Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 0.3 — — 0.3 
Reclassifications from AOCI, Net of Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 1.0 0.1 — 1.1 
Net Current Period Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 1.0 0.1 (3.2) (2.1)
Balance in AOCI as of December  31, 2022 $ (0.3)$ 5.4 $ (13.7)$ (8.6)
Pension and OPEB
Amortization Changes in
Cash Flow Hedge – of Deferr ed Funded
For the Year Ended December  31, 2021 Inter est Rate Costs Status Total
(in millions)
Balance in AOCI as of December  31, 2020 $ (2.3)$ 5.1 $ (11.7)$ (8.9)
Change in Fair Value Recognized in AOCI, Net of Tax 0.1 — 1.2 1.3 
Amount of (Gain) Loss Reclassified from AOCI
Interest Expense (b) 1.2 — — 1.2 
Amortization of Prior Service Cost (Credit) — (0.1) — (0.1)
Amortization of Actuarial (Gains) Losses — 0.3 — 0.3 
Reclassifications from AOCI, before Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 1.2 0.2 — 1.4 
Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 0.3 — — 0.3 
Reclassifications from AOCI, Net of Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 0.9 0.2 — 1.1 
Net Current Period Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 1.0 0.2 1.2 2.4 
Balance in AOCI as of December  31, 2021 $ (1.3)$ 5.3 $ (10.5)$ (6.5)
Pension and OPEB
Amortization Changes in
Cash Flow Hedge – of Deferr ed Funded
For the Year Ended December  31, 2020 Inter est Rate Costs Status Total
(in millions)
Balance in AOCI as of December  31, 2019 $ (3.4)$ 4.9 $ (14.3)$(12.8)
Change in Fair Value Recognized in AOCI, Net of Tax 0.1 — 2.6 2.7 
Amount of (Gain) Loss Reclassified from AOCI
Interest Expense (b) 1.3 — — 1.3 
Amortization of Prior Service Cost (Credit) — (0.1) — (0.1)
Amortization of Actuarial (Gains) Losses — 0.3 — 0.3 
Reclassifications from AOCI, before Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 1.3 0.2 — 1.5 
Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 0.3 — — 0.3 
Reclassifications from AOCI, Net of Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 1.0 0.2 — 1.2 
Net Current Period Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 1.1 0.2 2.6 3.9 
Balance in AOCI as of December  31, 2020 $ (2.3)$ 5.1 $ (11.7)$ (8.9)
249
APCo
Pension and OPEB  
Amortization Changes in
Cash Flow Hedge – of Deferred Funded
For the Year Ended December 31, 2022 Interest Rate Costs Status Total
(in millions)
Balance in AOCI as of December 31, 2021 $ 7.5 $ 1.2 $ 15.7 $ 24.4 
Change in Fair Value Recognized in AOCI, Net of Tax — — (24.1) (24.1)
Amount of (Gain) Loss Reclassified from AOCI
Interest Expense (b) (1.0) — — (1.0)
Amortization of Prior Service Cost (Credit) — (5.4) — (5.4)
Reclassifications from AOCI, before Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (1.0) (5.4) — (6.4)
Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (0.2) (1.1) — (1.3)
Reclassifications from AOCI, Net of Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (0.8) (4.3) — (5.1)
Net Current Period Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (0.8) (4.3) (24.1) (29.2)
Balance in AOCI as of December 31, 2022 $ 6.7 $ (3.1)$ (8.4)$ (4.8)
Pension and OPEB
Amortization Changes in
Cash Flow Hedges - of Deferred Funded
For the Year Ended December 31, 2021 Interest Rate Costs Status Total
(in millions)
Balance in AOCI as of December 31, 2020 $ (0.8)$ 5.4 $ 2.6 $ 7.2 
Change in Fair Value Recognized in AOCI, Net of Tax 9.2 — 13.1 22.3 
Amount of (Gain) Loss Reclassified from AOCI
Interest Expense (b) (1.1) — — (1.1)
Amortization of Prior Service Cost (Credit) — (5.3) — (5.3)
Reclassifications from AOCI, before Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (1.1) (5.3) — (6.4)
Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (0.2) (1.1) — (1.3)
Reclassifications from AOCI, Net of Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (0.9) (4.2) — (5.1)
Net Current Period Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 8.3 (4.2) 13.1 17.2 
Balance in AOCI as of December 31, 2021 $ 7.5 $ 1.2 $ 15.7 $ 24.4 
Pension and OPEB
Amortization Changes in
Cash Flow Hedges - of Deferred Funded
For the Year Ended December 31, 2020 Interest Rate Costs Status Total
(in millions)
Balance in AOCI as of December 31, 2019 $ 0.9 $ 9.2 $ (5.1)$ 5.0 
Change in Fair Value Recognized in AOCI, Net of Tax (0.7) — 7.7 7.0 
Amount of (Gain) Loss Reclassified from AOCI
Interest Expense (b) (1.3) — — (1.3)
Amortization of Prior Service Cost (Credit) — (5.3) — (5.3)
Amortization of Actuarial (Gains) Losses — 0.5 — 0.5 
Reclassifications from AOCI, before Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (1.3) (4.8) — (6.1)
Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (0.3) (1.0) — (1.3)
Reclassifications from AOCI, Net of Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (1.0) (3.8) — (4.8)
Net Current Period Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (1.7) (3.8) 7.7 2.2 
Balance in AOCI as of December 31, 2020 $ (0.8)$ 5.4 $ 2.6 $ 7.2 
250
I&M
Pension and OPEB
Amortization Changes in
Cash Flow Hedge – of Deferr ed Funded
For the Year Ended December  31, 2022 Inter est Rate Costs Status Total
(in millions)
Balance in AOCI as of December  31, 2021 $ (6.7)$ 4.7 $ 0.7 $ (1.3)
Change in Fair Value Recognized in AOCI, Net of Tax — — (0.3) (0.3)
Amount of (Gain) Loss Reclassified from AOCI
Interest Expense (b) 2.0 — — 2.0 
Amortization of Prior Service Cost (Credit) — (0.8) — (0.8)
Amortization of Actuarial (Gains) Losses — 0.4 — 0.4 
Reclassifications from AOCI, before Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 2.0 (0.4) — 1.6 
Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 0.4 (0.1) — 0.3 
Reclassifications from AOCI, Net of Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 1.6 (0.3) — 1.3 
Net Current Period Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 1.6 (0.3) (0.3) 1.0 
Balance in AOCI as of December  31, 2022 $ (5.1)$ 4.4 $ 0.4 $ (0.3)
Pension and OPEB
Amortization Changes in
Cash Flow Hedge – of Deferr ed Funded
For the Year Ended December  31, 2021 Inter est Rate Costs Status Total
(in millions)
Balance in AOCI as of December  31, 2020 $ (8.3)$ 4.8 $ (3.5)$ (7.0)
Change in Fair Value Recognized in AOCI, Net of Tax — — 4.2 4.2 
Amount of (Gain) Loss Reclassified from AOCI
Interest Expense (b) 2.0 — — 2.0 
Amortization of Prior Service Cost (Credit) — (0.8) — (0.8)
Amortization of Actuarial (Gains) Losses — 0.7 — 0.7 
Reclassifications from AOCI, before Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 2.0 (0.1) — 1.9 
Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 0.4 — — 0.4 
Reclassifications from AOCI, Net of Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 1.6 (0.1) — 1.5 
Net Current Period Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 1.6 (0.1) 4.2 5.7 
Balance in AOCI as of December  31, 2021 $ (6.7)$ 4.7 $ 0.7 $ (1.3)
Pension and OPEB
Amortization Changes in
Cash Flow Hedge – of Deferr ed Funded
For the Year Ended December  31, 2020 Inter est Rate Costs Status Total
(in millions)
Balance in AOCI as of December  31, 2019 $ (9.9)$ 4.9 $ (6.6)$(11.6)
Change in Fair Value Recognized in AOCI, Net of Tax — — 3.1 3.1 
Amount of (Gain) Loss Reclassified from AOCI
Interest Expense (b) 2.0 — — 2.0 
Amortization of Prior Service Cost (Credit) — (0.8) — (0.8)
Amortization of Actuarial (Gains) Losses — 0.7 — 0.7 
Reclassifications from AOCI, before Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 2.0 (0.1) — 1.9 
Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 0.4 — — 0.4 
Reclassifications from AOCI, Net of Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 1.6 (0.1) — 1.5 
Net Current Period Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 1.6 (0.1) 3.1 4.6 
Balance in AOCI as of December  31, 2020 $ (8.3)$ 4.8 $ (3.5)$ (7.0)
251
PSO
Cash Flow Hedge –
For the Year Ended December  31, 2022 Inter est Rate
(in millions)
Balance in AOCI as of December  31, 2021 $ — 
Change in Fair Value Recognized in AOCI, Net of Tax 1.3 
Amount of (Gain) Loss Reclassified from AOCI
Interest Expense (b) — 
Reclassifications from AOCI, before Income Tax (Expense) Benefit — 
Income Tax (Expense) Benefit — 
Reclassifications from AOCI, Net of Income Tax (Expense) Benefit — 
Net Current Period Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 1.3 
Balance in AOCI as of December  31, 2022 $ 1.3 
Cash Flow Hedge –
For the Year Ended December  31, 2021 Inter est Rate
(in millions)
Balance in AOCI as of December  31, 2020 $ 0.1 
Change in Fair Value Recognized in AOCI, Net of Tax — 
Amount of (Gain) Loss Reclassified from AOCI
Interest Expense (b) (0.1)
Reclassifications from AOCI, before Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (0.1)
Income Tax (Expense) Benefit — 
Reclassifications from AOCI, Net of Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (0.1)
Net Current Period Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (0.1)
Balance in AOCI as of December  31, 2021 $ — 
Cash Flow Hedge –
For the Year Ended December  31, 2020 Inter est Rate
(in millions)
Balance in AOCI as of December  31, 2019 $ 1.1 
Change in Fair Value Recognized in AOCI, Net of Tax — 
Amount of (Gain) Loss Reclassified from AOCI
Interest Expense (b) (1.3)
Reclassifications from AOCI, before Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (1.3)
Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (0.3)
Reclassifications from AOCI, Net of Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (1.0)
Net Current Period Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (1.0)
Balance in AOCI as of December  31, 2020 $ 0.1 
252
SWEPCo
Pension and OPEB
Amortization Changes in
Cash Flow Hedge – of Deferr ed Funded
For the Year Ended December  31, 2022 Inter est Rate Costs Status Total
(in millions)
Balance in AOCI as of December  31, 2021 $ 1.2 $ (4.4)$ 9.9 $ 6.7 
Change in Fair Value Recognized in AOCI, Net of Tax — — (9.2) (9.2)
Amount of (Gain) Loss Reclassified from AOCI
Interest Expense (b) (0.1) — — (0.1)
Amortization of Prior Service Cost (Credit) — (2.0) — (2.0)
Reclassifications from AOCI, before Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (0.1) (2.0) — (2.1)
Income Tax (Expense) Benefit — (0.4) — (0.4)
Reclassifications from AOCI, Net of Income Tax (Expense) Benefit (0.1) (1.6) — (1.7)
Net Current Period Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (0.1) (1.6) (9.2) (10.9)
Balance in AOCI as of December  31, 2022 $ 1.1 $ (6.0)$ 0.7 $ (4.2)
Pension and OPEB
Amortization Changes in
Cash Flow Hedge – of Deferr ed Funded
For the Year Ended December  31, 2021 Inter est Rate Costs Status Total
(in millions)
Balance in AOCI as of December  31, 2020 $ (0.3)$ (2.8)$ 5.0 $ 1.9 
Change in Fair Value Recognized in AOCI, Net of Tax — — 4.9 4.9 
Amount of (Gain) Loss Reclassified from AOCI
Interest Expense (b) 1.9 — — 1.9 
Amortization of Prior Service Cost (Credit) — (2.0) — (2.0)
Reclassifications from AOCI, before Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 1.9 (2.0) — (0.1)
Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 0.4 (0.4) — — 
Reclassifications from AOCI, Net of Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 1.5 (1.6) — (0.1)
Net Current Period Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 1.5 (1.6) 4.9 4.8 
Balance in AOCI as of December  31, 2021 $ 1.2 $ (4.4)$ 9.9 $ 6.7 
Pension and OPEB
Amortization Changes in
Cash Flow Hedge – of Deferr ed Funded
For the Year Ended December  31, 2020 Inter est Rate Costs Status Total
(in millions)
Balance in AOCI as of December  31, 2019 $ (1.8)$ (1.3)$ 1.8 $ (1.3)
Change in Fair Value Recognized in AOCI, Net of Tax — — 3.2 3.2 
Amount of (Gain) Loss Reclassified from AOCI
Interest Expense (b) 1.9 — — 1.9 
Amortization of Prior Service Cost (Credit) — (2.0) — (2.0)
Amortization of Actuarial (Gains) Losses — 0.1 — 0.1 
Reclassifications from AOCI, before Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 1.9 (1.9) — — 
Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 0.4 (0.4) — — 
Reclassifications from AOCI, Net of Income Tax (Expense) Benefit 1.5 (1.5) — — 
Net Current Period Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 1.5 (1.5) 3.2 3.2 
Balance in AOCI as of December  31, 2020 $ (0.3)$ (2.8)$ 5.0 $ 1.9 
(a) The change in fair value includes $(10) million, $(7) million and $6 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020,
respectively , related to AEP's investment in joint venture wind farms acquired as part of the purchase of Sempra Renewables LLC.
(b) Amounts reclassified to the referenced line item on the statements of income.
253
4.  RATE MATTERS
The disclosures in this note apply to all Registrants unless indicated otherwise.
The Registrants are involved in rate and regulatory proceedings at the FERC and their state commissions.  Rate matters
can have a material impact on net income, cash flows and possibly financial condition.  The Registrants’ recent
significant rate orders and pending rate filings are addressed in this note.
AEP Texas Rate Matters (Applies to AEP and AEP Texas)
AEP Texas Interim Transmission and Distribution Rates
Through December 31, 2022, AEP Texas’ cumulative revenues from interim base rate increases that are subject to
review is approximately $614 million. A base rate review could result in a refund to customers if AEP Texas incurs a
disallowance of the transmission or distribution investment on which an interim increase was based. Management is
unable to determine a range of potential losses, if any, that are reasonably possible of occurring. A revenue decrease,
including a refund of interim transmission and distribution rates, could reduce future net income and cash flows and
impact financial condition. AEP Texas is required to file for a comprehensive rate review no later than April 5, 2024.
APCo and WPCo Rate Matters (Applies to AEP and APCo)
2017-2019 Virginia Triennial Review
In November 2020, the Virginia SCC issued an order on APCo’s 2017-2019 Triennial Review filing concluding that
APCo earned above its authorized ROE but within its ROE band for the 2017-2019 period, resulting in no refund to
customers and no change to APCo base rates on a prospective basis. The Virginia SCC approved a prospective 9.2%
ROE for APCo's 2020-2022 triennial review period with the continuation of a statutory 140 basis point band (8.5%
bottom, 9.2% midpoint, 9.9% top). APCo appealed this order and a similar order on reconsideration to the Virginia
Supreme Court in March 2021, alleging the Virginia SCC erred in finding that costs associated with asset impairments
related to APCo early retirement determinations for certain generation facilities should not be attributed to the 2017-
2019 test periods under review and deemed fully recovered in the period recorded. In August 2022, the Virginia
Supreme Court agreed with this portion of APCo’s appeal and remanded this issue regarding the retired coal-fired
plants back to the Virginia SCC for further proceedings. In September 2022, as a result of the Virginia Supreme Court
ruling, APCo expensed the remaining $25 million closed coal plant regulatory asset that was previously ordered by the
Virginia SCC and recorded a $37 million regulatory asset for previously incurred costs that APCo is expecting to
recover as a result of earning below its 2017-2019 authorized ROE band.
In response to the Virginia Supreme Court’s August 2022 opinion, the Virginia SCC initiated remand proceedings and,
in December 2022, issued an order that: (a) approved APCo’s requested $37 million regulatory asset related to
previously incurred costs as a result of APCo earning below its 2017-2019 authorized ROE band, (b) authorized a
$28 million annual increase in APCo Virginia base rates effective October 2022 and (c) approved a rider to recover
approximately $48 million related to this APCo Virginia base rate increase for the period January 2021 through
September 2022. APCo’s 2022 financial statements reflect the impact of the Virginia SCC’s December 2022 order.
2020-2022 Virginia Triennial Review
In March 2023, APCo will submit its required Virginia earnings test calculation to the Virginia SCC for the 2020-2022
Triennial Review period. For Triennial Review periods in which a Virginia utility earns below its authorized ROE band,
the utility may file to recover expenses incurred, up to the bottom of the authorized ROE band, related to major storms,
the early retirement of fossil fuel generating assets and certain projects necessary to comply with state and federal
environmental legislation. As of December 31, 2022, APCo has deferred approximately $38 million related to
previously incurred costs as a result of the current estimate that APCo will earn below the bottom of its authorized ROE
band during the 2020-2022 Triennial Review period. If it is determined
254
that APCo has earned above the bottom of its authorized ROE band for the 2020-2022 Triennial Review period it could
reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.
CCR/ELG Compliance Plan Filings
In December 2020, APCo submitted filings with the Virginia SCC and WVPSC requesting approvals necessary to
implement CCR/ELG compliance plans at the Amos and Mountaineer Plants. In August 2021, the Virginia SCC issued
an order approving recovery of CCR-related operation and maintenance expenses and investments at the Amos and
Mountaineer Plants through an active rider. The order also denied APCo’s request to recover the cost of ELG
investments and denied recovery of previously incurred ELG costs, but did not preclude APCo from refiling for
approval. Also in August 2021, the WVPSC approved the request to construct CCR/ELG investments at the Amos and
Mountaineer Plants and approved recovery of the West Virginia jurisdictional share of these costs through an active
rider.
In March 2022, APCo refiled for approval to recover the Virginia jurisdictional share of ELG investments at the Amos
and Mountaineer Plants. The Virginia SCC issued a November 2022 order approving this request.
2021 and 2022 ENEC (Expanded Net Energy Cost) Filings
In April 2021, APCo and WPCo (the Companies) requested a $73 million annual increase in ENEC rates based on a
cumulative combined $55 million ENEC under-recovery as of February 28, 2021 and a combined $18 million increase
in projected ENEC costs for the period September 2021 through August 2022. In September 2021, the WVPSC issued
an order approving a $7 million overall increase in ENEC rates, including an approval for recovery of the Companies’
cumulative $55 million ENEC under-recovery balance and a $48 million reduction in projected costs for the period
September 2021 through August 2022. Subsequently, the Companies submitted a request for reconsideration of this
order, identifying flaws in the WVPSC’s calculation of forecasted future year fuel expense and purchased power costs.
In March 2022, the WVPSC issued an order granting the Companies’ request for reconsideration, in part, and approving
$31 million in projected costs for the period September 2021 through August 2022. The order also reopened the 2021
ENEC case to require the Companies to explain the significant growth in the reported under-recovery of ENEC costs
and to provide various other information including revised projected costs for the period March 2022 through August
2022. Also, in March 2022, the Companies filed testimony providing the information requested in the WVPSC’s order
and requested a $155 million annual increase in ENEC rates effective May 1, 2022. In May 2022, the WVPSC issued
an order approving a $93 million overall increase to ENEC rates to recover projected annual ENEC costs. However, the
WVPSC stated that actual and projected ENEC costs are still subject to a prudency review.
In April 2022, the Companies submitted their 2022 annual ENEC filing with the WVPSC requesting a $297 million
annual increase in ENEC revenues, inclusive of the previously requested $155 million increase, effective September 1,
2022.
In September 2022, following an agreed upon delay in the proceedings of the Companies’ 2022 ENEC case, certain
intervenors submitted testimony recommending disallowances of at least $83 million to the Companies’ historical
period ENEC under-recovery balance along with proposals to either securitize the Companies’ remaining ENEC
balance or defer recovery of this balance beyond the traditional one-year period. West Virginia Staff recommended a
$13 million increase in ENEC rates pending the outcome of the ENEC prudency review. In February 2023, the WVPSC
issued an order stating that the commission will not grant additional rate increases for fuel costs until the WVPSC staff
completes its prudency review. As of December 31, 2022, the Companies’ cumulative ENEC under-recovery was
$520 million. If any deferred ENEC costs are not recoverable, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and
impact financial condition.
255
June 2022 West Virginia Storm Costs
In June 2022, the West Virginia service territories of APCo and WPCo (the Companies) were impacted by strong winds
from multiple storms resulting in system damages and power outages. As of December 31, 2022, the Companies
incurred and deferred an estimated $17 million in incremental distribution operation and maintenance expenses related
to service restoration efforts. The Companies will seek recovery of these deferrals in future filings. If any of the storm
restoration costs are not recoverable, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.
ETT Rate Matters (Applies to AEP)
ETT Interim Transmission Rates
AEP has a 50% equity ownership interest in ETT. Predominantly all of ETT’s revenues are based on interim rate
changes that can be filed twice annually and are subject to review and possible true-up in the next base rate proceeding.
Through December 31, 2022, AEP’s share of ETT’s cumulative revenues that are subject to review is approximately
$1.5 billion. A base rate review could produce a refund if ETT incurs a disallowance of the transmission investment on
which an interim increase was based. A revenue decrease, including a refund of interim transmission rates, could reduce
future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition. Management is unable to determine a range of
potential losses, if any, that are reasonably possible of occurring.
In December 2022, ETT and various intervenors filed a stipulation and settlement agreement with the PUCT. The
agreement maintains ETT’s previously allowed ROE and capital structure and includes: (a) a $14 million decrease to
the current annual revenue requirement effective February 1, 2023, (b) a provision that ETT must make an interim
transmission cost of service filing by June 1, 2023, (c) a $2 million line item decrease to the revenue requirement
determined in each interim transmission cost of service filing until the filing of the next comprehensive base rate
review and (d) no determination of prudence on any transmission investment added since ETT’s last comprehensive
base rate review, which would leave the $1.5 billion of cumulative revenues above subject to review in the next
comprehensive base rate review. In February 2023, the PUCT approved the stipulation and settlement agreement. As
part of the approved agreement, new rates will be implemented in February 2023 and ETT is required to file for a
comprehensive base rate review no later than February 1, 2025.
I&M Rate Matters (Applies to AEP and I&M)
Michigan Power Supply Cost Recovery (PSCR) Reconciliation
In April 2022, an ALJ issued a PFD for I&M’s PSCR reconciliation for the 12-month period ending December 31,
2020, recommending the MPSC disallow approximately $8 million of purchased power costs that I&M incurred under
the Inter-Company Power Agreement with OVEC and the Unit Power Agreement with AEGCo. In February 2023, the
MPSC issued an order resulting in a $1 million disallowance of 2020 OVEC costs.
Indiana Earnings Test Filings
I&M is required by Indiana law to submit an earnings test evaluation for the most recent one-year and five-year periods
as part of I&M’s semi-annual Indiana FAC filings. These earnings test evaluations require I&M to include a credit in
the FAC factor computation for periods in which I&M earned above its authorized return for both the one-year and
five-year periods. The credit is determined as 50% of the lower of the one-year or five-year earnings above the
authorized level. In August 2022, I&M submitted its FAC filing and earnings test evaluation for the period ended May
2022, which calculated a credit due to customers of $14 million. In October 2022, the IURC approved the FAC filing
and earnings test evaluation, with the credit to customers starting in November 2022 through the FAC. As of December
31, 2022, I&M’s financial statements adequately reflect the estimated impact of I&M’s upcoming Indiana earnings test
filings. If it is determined that I&M’s over-earnings exceed what has been recorded, it could reduce future net income
and cash flows and impact financial condition.
256
2022 Michigan Integrated Resource Plan (IRP) Filing
In February 2022, I&M filed a request with the MPSC for approval of its 2022 IRP. Included in that filing were
requests for approval and deferral of costs associated with resources commencing construction within three years of the
Commission’s order in the filing. These resources include the new generation resources expected to be in-service by
2028 and demand-side resources, including load management programs and conservation voltage reduction
investments. I&M is also requesting MPSC approval of I&M’s Rockport Plant, Unit 2 transition plan consistent with
that approved by the IURC, including certain cost recovery related to remaining net book value of leasehold
improvements made during the term of the Rockport Unit 2 lease and future use of Rockport Plant, Unit 2 as a capacity
resource. In addition, I&M has made requests for approval of a financial incentive on certain power purchase
agreements and load management programs. As of December 31, 2022, I&M’s total net book value for these Rockport
Plant, Unit 2 leasehold improvements was approximately $17 million on a Michigan jurisdictional basis.
In November 2022, I&M filed a settlement agreement, which included a Rockport Plant, Unit 2 transition plan. Under
this plan, I&M Michigan ratepayers will receive a jurisdictional share of post-lease revenues in excess of costs from
Rockport Plant, Unit 2’s operations as a merchant facility. In addition, I&M will continue to recover the remaining net
book value of Rockport Plant, Unit 2 leasehold improvements through 2028, including a pretax return. In February
2023, the MPSC issued an order approving the settlement agreement without modification.
KPCo Rate Matters (Applies to AEP)
CCR/ELG Compliance Plan Filings
KPCo and WPCo each own a 50% interest in the Mitchell Plant. As of December 31, 2022, the net book value of
KPCo’s share of the Mitchell Plant, before cost of removal including CWIP and inventory, was $577 million. In
December 2020 and February 2021, WPCo and KPCo filed requests with the WVPSC and KPSC, respectively, to
obtain the regulatory approvals necessary to implement CCR and ELG compliance plans and seek recovery of the
estimated $132 million investment for the Mitchell Plant that would allow the plant to continue operating beyond 2028.
Within those requests, WPCo and KPCo also filed a $25 million alternative to implement only the CCR-related
investments with the WVPSC and KPSC, respectively, which would allow the Mitchell Plant to continue operating only
through 2028.
In July 2021, the KPSC issued an order approving the CCR only alternative and rejecting the full CCR and ELG
compliance plan. In May 2022, the KPSC approved recovery of the Kentucky jurisdictional share of ELG costs
incurred at the Mitchell Plant prior to July 15, 2021.
In August 2021, the WVPSC approved the full CCR and ELG compliance plan for the WPCo share of the Mitchell
Plant. In September 2021, WPCo submitted a filing with the WVPSC to reopen the CCR/ELG case that was approved
by the WVPSC in August 2021. Due to the rejection by the KPSC of the KPCo share of the ELG investments, WPCo
requested the WVPSC consider approving the construction and recovery of all ELG costs at the plant. In October 2021,
the WVPSC affirmed its August 2021 order approving the construction of CCR/ELG investments and directed WPCo
to proceed with CCR/ELG compliance plans that would allow the plant to continue operating beyond 2028. The
WVPSC also ordered that WPCo will be given the opportunity to recover, from its customers, the ELG and new capital
and operating costs arising solely from the WVPSC's directive to operate the plant beyond 2028 if the WVPSC finds
that the costs are reasonably and prudently incurred. The WVPSC’s order further states that unless KPCo pays for its
share of costs for ELG improvements and costs necessary to continue operations beyond 2028, the benefit of the
capacity and energy made possible by those improvements and operating Mitchell Plant beyond 2028 should benefit
only West Virginia jurisdictional customers who have shared in paying for those costs.
257
OPCo Rate Matters (Applies to AEP and OPCo)
OVEC Cost Recovery Audits
In December 2021, as part of OVEC cost recovery audits pending before the PUCO, intervenors filed positions
claiming that costs incurred by OPCo during the 2018-2019 audit period were imprudent and should be disallowed. In
May 2022, intervenors filed for rehearing on the 2016-2017 OVEC cost recovery audit period claiming the PUCO’s
April 2022 order to adopt the findings of the audit report were unjust, unlawful and unreasonable for multiple reasons,
including the position that OPCo recovered imprudently incurred costs. In June 2022, the PUCO granted rehearing on
the 2016-2017 audit period for purposes of further consideration. Management disagrees with these claims and is
unable to predict the impact of these disputes; however, if any costs are disallowed or refunds are ordered it could
reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition. See "OVEC" section of Note 17 for additional
information on AEP and OPCo’s investment in OVEC.
June 2022 Storm Costs
In June 2022, the service territory of OPCo was impacted by strong winds from multiple storms resulting in power
outages and damage to the transmission and distribution infrastructures. As of December 31, 2022, OPCo had incurred
approximately $20 million in incremental operation and maintenance costs related to service restoration efforts. The
incremental storm restoration costs have been deferred as regulatory assets and OPCo is expected to seek recovery in a
future filing. In July 2022, intervenors filed a motion requesting the PUCO open a formal investigation into the power
outages that occurred as a result of the June storms and determine if OPCo was negligent and liable to consumers for
damages incurred as a result of the power outages. Separately, in July 2022, the PUCO directed its staff to conduct an
after-action review to examine the circumstances of the event and OPCo’s response to determine if OPCo adhered to
the laws and rules in the state, followed its PUCO-approved emergency plan and responded appropriately to the event
in an effort to mitigate the negative effects. In January 2023, the PUCO Staff issued a report which concluded OPCo
was required to proactively shut down parts of its distribution system in order to avoid damages to the system and
further outages and that OPCo adhered to its emergency plan. The report also directed OPCo to revise its vegetation
programs around high voltage transmission lines and recommended that it make improvements to its emergency
communications procedures. If any of the storm restoration costs are not recoverable, it could reduce future net income
and cash flows and impact financial condition.
Ohio ESP Filings
In January 2023, OPCo filed an application with the PUCO to approve an ESP that included proposed rate adjustments,
proposed new riders and the continuation and modification of certain existing riders, including the DIR, effective June
2024 through May 2030. The proposal includes a return on common equity of 10.65% on capital costs for certain
riders. If OPCo is ultimately not permitted to fully collect its ESP rates it could reduce future net income and cash flows
and impact financial condition.
PSO Rate Matters (Applies to AEP and PSO)
2022 Oklahoma Base Rate Case
In November 2022, PSO filed a request with the OCC for a $173 million annual increase in rates based upon a 10.4%
ROE with a capital structure of 45.4% debt and 54.6% common equity, net of existing rider revenues and certain
incremental renewable facility benefits expected to be provided to customers through riders. The requested annual
revenue increase includes a $47 million annual depreciation expense increase related to the accelerated depreciation
recovery of the Northeastern Plant, Unit 3 through 2026, and a $16 million annual amortization expense increase to
recover intangible plant over a 5-year useful life instead of a 10-year useful life. PSO’s request also includes recovery
of the 154 MW Rock Falls Wind Facility through base rates to aid PSO’s near-term capacity needs and support
compliance with SPP’s 2023 increased capacity planning reserve margin requirements. In
258
November 2022, PSO entered into an agreement to acquire the Rock Falls Wind Facility. In February 2023, the FERC
approved PSO’s acquisition of the Rock Falls Wind Facility under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act. PSO expects
to close on the acquisition and place the Rock Falls Wind Facility in-service during the first quarter of 2023. OCC
approval is not a condition precedent to closing on the acquisition of the Rock Falls Wind Facility. In addition, PSO
requested an annual formula based rate tariff, with an initial one-year pilot term. In the event the requested formula
based rate tariff is denied, PSO has requested an expanded rider to recover certain distribution investments and related
expenses as well as an expanded transmission cost recovery rider. If any of these costs are not recoverable, it could
reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.
February 2021 Severe Winter Weather Impacts in SPP
In February 2021, severe winter weather had a significant impact in SPP, resulting in the declaration of Energy
Emergency Alert Levels 2 and 3 for the first time in SPP’s history. The winter storm increased the demand for natural
gas and restricted the available natural gas supply resulting in significantly increased market prices for natural gas
power plants to meet reliability needs for the SPP electric system.
In April 2021, the OCC approved a waiver for PSO allowing the deferral of the extraordinary fuel and purchases of
electricity as regulatory assets, including a carrying charge at an interim rate of 0.75%, over a longer time period than
what the FAC traditionally allows. Also in April 2021, legislation was enacted in Oklahoma permitting securitized
financing of qualified costs from extreme weather events. This legislation provides certain authority to the OCC to
approve amounts to be recovered from the issuance of ratepayer-backed securitized bonds issued by the ODFA, an
Oklahoma governmental agency. In January 2022, PSO, OCC staff and certain intervenors filed a joint stipulation and
settlement agreement with the OCC to approve the securitization of PSO’s extraordinary fuel costs and purchases of
electricity. In February 2022, the OCC approved the joint stipulation and settlement agreement which included a
determination that all of PSO’s extraordinary fuel costs and purchases of electricity were prudent and reasonable and
also provided a 0.75% carrying charge related to those costs, subject to true-up based on actual financing costs.
In September 2022, PSO received proceeds of $687 million from the ODFA which issued ratepayer-backed
securitization bonds for the purpose of reimbursing PSO for extraordinary fuel costs and purchases of electricity
incurred during the February 2021 severe winter weather event, which were previously recorded as Regulatory Assets
on PSO’s balance sheet. The securitization bonds are the obligation of the ODFA and there is no recourse against PSO
in the event of a bond default, and therefore are not recorded as Long-term Debt on PSO’s balance sheet. PSO will
serve as the servicing agent of the bonds and is responsible for the routine billing and collection of the securitization
charges and remitting those collections back to the ODFA. The securitization charges billed to and collected from
customers are not included as revenue on PSO’s statement of income. The collections from customers will occur over
20 years.
SWEPCo Rate Matters (Applies to AEP and SWEPCo)
2012 Texas Base Rate Case
In 2012, SWEPCo filed a request with the PUCT to increase annual base rates primarily due to the completion of the
Turk Plant. In 2013, the PUCT issued an order affirming the prudence of the Turk Plant but determined that the Turk
Plant’s Texas jurisdictional capital cost cap established in a previous Certificate of Convenience and Necessity case also
limited SWEPCo’s recovery of AFUDC in addition to limits on its recovery of cash construction costs.
Upon rehearing in 2014, the PUCT reversed its initial ruling and determined that AFUDC was excluded from the Turk
Plant’s Texas jurisdictional capital cost cap. As a result, SWEPCo reversed $114 million of a previously recorded
regulatory disallowance in 2013. In 2017, the Texas District Court upheld the PUCT’s 2014 order and intervenors filed
appeals with the Texas Third Court of Appeals.
259
In July 2018, the Texas Third Court of Appeals reversed the PUCT’s judgment affirming the prudence of the Turk Plant
and remanded the issue back to the PUCT. In January 2019, SWEPCo and the PUCT filed petitions for review with the
Texas Supreme Court. In March 2021, the Texas Supreme Court issued an opinion reversing the July 2018 judgment of
the Texas Third Court of Appeals and agreeing with the PUCT’s judgment affirming the prudence of the Turk Plant. In
addition, the Texas Supreme Court remanded the AFUDC dispute back to the Texas Third Court of Appeals. No parties
filed a motion for rehearing with the Texas Supreme Court. In August 2021, the Texas Third Court of Appeals reversed
the Texas District Court judgment affirming the PUCT’s order on AFUDC, concluding that the language of the PUCT’s
original 2008 order intended to include AFUDC in the Texas jurisdictional capital cost cap, and remanded the case to
the PUCT for future proceedings. SWEPCo disagrees with the Court of Appeals decision. SWEPCo and the PUCT
submitted Petitions for Review with the Texas Supreme Court in November 2021. In October 2022, the Texas Supreme
Court denied the Petitions for Review submitted by SWEPCo and the PUCT. In December 2022, SWEPCo and the
PUCT filed requests for rehearing with the Texas Supreme Court. The Texas Supreme Court requested comments on
rehearing by March 1, 2023. If SWEPCo’s request for rehearing is denied, the case will be remanded to the PUCT for
future proceedings.
Management does not believe a disallowance of capitalized Turk Plant costs or a revenue refund is probable as of
December 31, 2022. However, if SWEPCo is ultimately unable to recover AFUDC in excess of the Texas jurisdictional
capital cost cap, it would be expected to result in a pretax net disallowance ranging from $80 million to $90 million. In
addition, if AFUDC is ultimately determined to be included in the Texas jurisdictional capital cost cap, SWEPCo
estimates it may be required to make customer refunds ranging from $0 to $185 million related to revenues collected
from February 2013 through December 2022 and such determination may reduce SWEPCo’s future revenues by
approximately $15 million on an annual basis.
2016 Texas Base Rate Case
In 2016, SWEPCo filed a request with the PUCT for a net increase in Texas annual revenues of $69 million based upon
a 10% ROE. In January 2018, the PUCT issued a final order approving a net increase in Texas annual revenues of
$50 million based upon a ROE of 9.6%, effective May 2017. The final order also included: (a) approval to recover the
Texas jurisdictional share of environmental investments placed in- service, as of June 30, 2016, at various plants,
including Welsh Plant, Units 1 and 3, (b) approval of recovery of, but no return on, the Texas jurisdictional share of the
net book value of Welsh Plant, Unit 2, (c) approval of $2 million in additional vegetation management expenses and (d)
the rejection of SWEPCo’s proposed transmission cost recovery mechanism.
As a result of the final order, in 2017 SWEPCo: (a) recorded an impairment charge of $19 million, which included
$7 million associated with the lack of return on Welsh Plant, Unit 2 and $12 million related to other disallowed plant
investments, (b) recognized $32 million of additional revenues, for the period of May 2017 through December 2017,
that was surcharged to customers in 2018 and (c) recognized an additional $7 million of expenses consisting primarily
of depreciation expense and vegetation management expense, offset by the deferral of rate case expense. SWEPCo
implemented new rates in February 2018 billings. The $32 million of additional 2017 revenues was collected during
2018. In March 2018, the PUCT clarified and corrected portions of the final order, without changing the overall
decision or amounts of the rate change. The order has been appealed by various intervenors related to limiting
SWEPCo’s recovery of AFUDC on Turk Plant and recovery of Welsh Plant, Unit 2. The appeal will move forward
following the conclusion of the 2012 Texas Base Rate Case. If certain parts of the PUCT order are overturned, it could
reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.
2020 Texas Base Rate Case
In October 2020, SWEPCo filed a request with the PUCT for a $105 million annual increase in Texas base rates based
upon a proposed 10.35% ROE. The request would move transmission and distribution interim revenues recovered
through riders into base rates. Eliminating these riders would result in a net annual requested base rate increase of
$90 million primarily due to increased investments. SWEPCo subsequently filed a request with the PUCT lowering the
requested annual increase in Texas base rates to $100 million which would result in an $85 million net annual base rate
increase after moving the proposed riders to rate base.
260
In January 2022, the PUCT issued a final order approving an annual revenue increase of $39 million based upon a
9.25% ROE. The order also includes: (a) rates implemented retroactively back to March 18, 2021, (b) $5 million of the
proposed increase related to vegetation management, (c) $2 million annually to establish a storm catastrophe reserve
and (d) the creation of a rider to recover the Dolet Hills Power Station as if it were in rate base until its retirement at the
end of 2021 and starting in 2022 the remaining net book value to be recovered as a regulatory asset through 2046. As a
result of the final order, SWEPCo recorded a disallowance of $12 million in 2021 associated with the lack of return on
the Dolet Hills Power Station. In February 2022, SWEPCo filed a motion for rehearing with the PUCT challenging
several errors in the order, which include challenges of the approved ROE, the denial of a reasonable return or carrying
costs on the Dolet Hills Power Station and the calculation of the Texas jurisdictional share of the storm catastrophe
reserve. In April 2022, the PUCT denied the motion for rehearing. In May 2022, SWEPCo filed a petition for review
with the Texas District Court seeking a judicial review of the several errors challenged in the PUCT’s final order.
2020 Louisiana Base Rate Case
In December 2020, SWEPCo filed a request with the LPSC for a $134 million annual increase in Louisiana base rates
based upon a proposed 10.35% ROE. SWEPCo’s requested annual increase includes accelerated depreciation related to
the Dolet Hills Power Station, Pirkey Power Plant and Welsh Plant, all of which were or are expected to be retired
early. SWEPCo also included recovery of Welsh Plant, Unit 2 over the blended useful life of Welsh Plant, Units 1 and
3. SWEPCo subsequently revised the requested annual increase to $95 million to reflect removing hurricane storm
restoration costs from the base case filing, to modify the proposed recovery of the Dolet Hills Power Station and
revisions to various proposed amortizations. The hurricane costs have been requested in a separate storm filing. See
“2021 Louisiana Storm Cost Filing” below for more information.
In January 2023, the LPSC approved a settlement which provides for an annual revenue increase of $27 million based
upon a 9.5% ROE and includes: (a) a $21 million increase in base rates effective February 2023, (b) a $14 million rider
to recover costs of the Dolet Hills Power Station and Pirkey Plant including a return, (c) an $8 million reduction in fuel
rates, (d) an adoption of a 3-year formula rate term subject to an earnings band and (e) the recovery of certain
incremental SPP charges net of associated revenue and the LA jurisdictional share of the return on and of projected
transmission capital investment outside of the earnings band. The settlement agreement did not rule on the prudency of
the early retirement of the Dolet Hills Power Station, which is being addressed in a separate proceeding.
The primary differences between SWEPCo’s requested annual rate increase and the agreed upon settlement increase are
primarily due to: (a) a reduction in the requested ROE, (b) recovery of the Dolet Hills Power Station and Pirkey Plant
over ten years in a separate rider mechanism as opposed to base rates with accelerated depreciation rates, (c)
maintaining existing depreciation rates for Welsh Plant, Units 1 and 3 and (d) the severing of SWEPCo’s proposed
adjustment to include a stand-alone NOLC deferred tax asset in rate base. In January 2023, a hearing was held related
to the inclusion of a stand-alone NOLC deferred tax asset in rate base and an order from the LPSC is expected in 2023.
2021 Arkansas Base Rate Case
In July 2021, SWEPCo filed a request with the APSC for an $85 million annual increase in Arkansas base rates based
upon a proposed 10.35% ROE with a capital structure of 48.7% debt and 51.3% common equity. The proposed annual
increase includes: (a) a $41 million revenue requirement for the North Central Wind Facilities, (b) a $14 million annual
depreciation increase primarily due to recovery of the Dolet Hills Power Station through 2026 and Pirkey Plant and
Welsh Plant, Units 1 and 3 through 2037 and (c) a $6 million increase due to SPP costs. In January 2022, SWEPCo
filed testimony revising the requested annual increase in Arkansas base rates to $81 million. SWEPCo requested that
rates become effective in June 2022.
In May 2022, the APSC issued a final order approving an annual revenue increase of $49 million based upon a 9.5%
ROE. The order also includes: (a) a capital structure of 55% debt and 45% common equity, (b) approval to recover the
Dolet Hills Power Station as a regulatory asset over five years without a return on this investment
261
resulting in an immaterial disallowance in the second quarter of 2022, (c) the denial of accelerated depreciation for
Pirkey Plant and Welsh Plant, Units 1 and 3 and (d) approval of a rider to recover SPP costs and revenues. The final
order also denied the inclusion of the stand-alone NOLC in SWEPCo’s deferred tax assets, but included approval of the
deferral of the forgone revenue requirement associated with the NOLC and excess NOLC, with recovery of the deferral
contingent upon receipt of a supportive private letter ruling from the IRS. Rates were implemented with the first billing
cycle of July 2022.
2021 Louisiana Storm Cost Filing
In 2020, Hurricanes Laura and Delta caused power outages and extensive damage to the SWEPCo service territories,
primarily impacting the Louisiana jurisdiction. Following both hurricanes, the LPSC issued orders allowing Louisiana
utilities, including SWEPCo, to establish regulatory assets to track and defer expenses associated with these storms. In
February 2021, severe winter weather impacted the Louisiana jurisdiction and in March 2021, the LPSC approved the
deferral of incremental storm restoration expenses related to the winter storm. In October 2021, SWEPCo filed a
request with the LPSC for recovery of $145 million in deferred storm costs associated with the three storms. As part of
the filing, SWEPCo requested recovery of the carrying charges on the deferred regulatory asset at a weighted average
cost of capital through a rider beginning in January 2022. In May 2022, LPSC staff testimony was submitted to the
LPSC. In July 2022, SWEPCo filed rebuttal testimony which agreed to make a request for securitization as the LPSC
staff had recommended in their testimony. An order is expected in 2023. If any of the storm costs are not recoverable, it
could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.
February 2021 Severe Winter Weather Impacts in SPP
As discussed in the “PSO Rate Matters” section above, severe winter weather had a significant impact in SPP, resulting
in significantly increased market prices for natural gas power plants to meet reliability needs for the SPP electric
system. For the time period of February 9, 2021, to February 20, 2021, SWEPCo’s natural gas expenses and purchases
of electricity still to be recovered from customers are $329 million as of December 31, 2022, of which $75 million,
$122 million and $132 million is related to the Arkansas, Louisiana and Texas jurisdictions, respectively.
In March 2021, the APSC issued an order authorizing recovery of the Arkansas jurisdictional share of the retail
customer fuel costs over five years, with the appropriate carrying charge to be determined at a later date. Subsequently,
SWEPCo began recovery of these fuel costs. In April 2021, SWEPCo filed testimony supporting a five-year recovery
with a carrying charge of 6.05%. In June 2022, the APSC ordered SWEPCo to recover the Arkansas jurisdictional share
of the fuel costs over six years with a carrying charge equal to its weighted average cost of capital, subject to a
prudency review and true-up.
In March 2021, the LPSC approved a special order granting a temporary modification to the FAC and shortly after
SWEPCo began recovery of its Louisiana jurisdictional share of these fuel costs based on a five-year recovery period
inclusive of an interim carrying charge of 3.25%. SWEPCo will work with the LPSC to finalize the actual recovery
period and determine the appropriate carrying charge in future proceedings.
In August 2021, SWEPCo filed an application with the PUCT to implement a net interim fuel surcharge for the Texas
jurisdictional share of these retail fuel costs. The application requested a five-year recovery with a carrying charge of
7.18%. In March 2022, the PUCT ordered SWEPCo to recover the Texas jurisdictional share of the fuel costs over five
years with a carrying charge of 1.65% and ordered SWEPCo to file a fuel reconciliation addressing fuel costs from
January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2021.
If SWEPCo is unable to recover any of the costs relating to the extraordinary fuel and purchases of electricity, or obtain
authorization of a reasonable carrying charge on these costs, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and
impact financial condition.
262
FERC Rate Matters
FERC SPP Transmission Formula Rate Challenge (Applies to AEP, AEPTCo, PSO and SWEPCo)
In May 2021, certain joint customers submitted a formal challenge at the FERC related to the 2020 Annual Update of
the 2019 SPP Transmission Formula Rates of the AEP transmission owning subsidiaries within SPP. In March 2022, the
FERC issued an order on the formal challenge which ruled in favor of the joint customers on several issues.
Management has determined that the result of the order will have an immaterial impact to the financial statements of
AEP, AEPTCo, PSO and SWEPCo. In November 2022, certain joint customers appealed the FERC decision to the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.
Independence Energy Connection Project (Applies to AEP)
In 2016, PJM approved the Independence Energy Connection Project (IEC) and included it in its Regional
Transmission Expansion Plan to alleviate congestion. Transource Energy has an ownership interest in the IEC, which is
located in Maryland and Pennsylvania. In June 2020, the Maryland Public Service Commission approved a Certificate
of Public Convenience and Necessity to construct the portion of the IEC in Maryland. In May 2021, the Pennsylvania
Public Utility Commission (PAPUC) denied the IEC certificate for siting and construction of the portion in
Pennsylvania. Transource Energy appealed the PAPUC ruling in Pennsylvania state court and challenged the ruling
before the United States District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania. In May 2022, the Pennsylvania state
court issued an order affirming the PAPUC decision. The PAPUC decision remains subject to the jurisdiction and
review of the United States District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania, which had stayed review of the
PAPUC decision until the Pennsylvania state court had ordered. The procedural schedule for this case states that a
decision by the United States District Court for the Middle of Pennsylvania will not be reached until 2023.
In September 2021, PJM notified Transource Energy that the IEC was suspended to allow for the regulatory and related
appeals process to proceed in an orderly manner without breaching milestone dates in the project agreement. At that
time, PJM stated that the IEC has not been cancelled and remains necessary to alleviate congestion. PJM continues to
evaluate reliability and market efficiency in the area. As of December 31, 2022, AEP’s share of IEC capital
expenditures was approximately $87 million, located in Total Property, Plant and Equipment - Net on AEP’s balance
sheets. The FERC has previously granted abandonment benefits for this project, allowing the full recovery of prudently
incurred costs if the project is cancelled for reasons outside the control of Transource Energy. If any of the IEC costs
are not recoverable, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.
FERC RTO Incentive Complaint (Applies to AEP, AEPTCo and OPCo)
In February 2022, the Office of the Ohio Consumers’ Counsel (OCC) filed a complaint against AEPSC, American
Transmission Systems, Inc. and Duke Energy Ohio, alleging the 50 basis point RTO incentive included in Ohio
Transmission Owners’ respective transmission formula rates is not just and reasonable and therefore should be
eliminated on the basis that RTO participation is not voluntary, but rather is required by Ohio law. In March 2022,
AEPSC filed a motion to dismiss the OCC’s February 2022 complaint with the FERC on the basis of certain
deficiencies, including that the complaint fails to request relief that can be granted under FERC regulations because
AEPSC is not a public utility nor does it have a transmission rate on file with the FERC. In December 2022, the FERC
issued an order removing the 50 basis point RTO incentive from OPCo and OHTCo transmission formula rates
effective the date of the February 2022 complaint filing and directed OPCo and OHTCo to provide refunds, with
interest, within sixty days of the date of its order. In January 2023, both AEPSC and the OCC filed requests for
rehearing with the FERC. A FERC order on rehearing is expected in 2023. Based on management’s preliminary
estimates, the December 2022 FERC order is expected to reduce AEP’s pretax income by approximately $20 million on
an annual basis.
263
Request to Update AEGCo Depreciation Rates (Applies to AEP and I&M)
In October 2022, AEP, on behalf of AEGCo, submitted proposed revisions to AEGCo’s depreciation rates for its 50%
ownership interest in Rockport Plant, Unit 1 and Unit 2, reflected in AEGCo’s unit power agreement with I&M. The
proposed depreciation rates for these assets reflect an estimated 2028 retirement date for the Rockport Plant. AEGCo’s
previous FERC-approved depreciation rates for Rockport Plant, Unit 1 were based upon a December 31, 2028
estimated retirement date while AEGCo’s previous FERC-approved depreciation rates for Rockport Plant, Unit 2
leasehold improvements were based upon a December 31, 2022 estimated retirement date in conjunction with the
termination of the Rockport Plant, Unit 2 lease.
In December 2022, the FERC issued an order approving the proposed AEGCo Rockport depreciation rates effective
January 1, 2023, subject to further review and a potential refund. The FERC established a separate proceeding to
review: (a) AEGCo’s acquisition value for the Rockport Plant, Unit 2 base generating asset (original cost and
accumulated depreciation), (b) the appropriateness of including future capital additions as stated components in
proposed depreciation rates, in light of the UPA’s formula rate mechanism, (c) the appropriateness of applying two
different depreciation rates to a single asset common to both units and (d) the accounting and regulatory treatment of
Rockport Plant, Unit 2 costs of removal and related AROs. It is expected that the FERC will issue an order on this
review in the second half of 2023. This FERC review and subsequent order on these issues could reduce future net
income and cash flows and impact financial conditions.
264
5.  EFFECTS OF REGULATION
The disclosures in this note apply to all Registrants unless indicated otherwise.
Coal-Fired Generation Plants (Applies to AEP, PSO and SWEPCo)
Compliance with extensive environmental regulations requires significant capital investment in environmental
monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, emission fees, disposal costs and permits. Management
continuously evaluates cost estimates of complying with these regulations which has resulted in, and in the future may
result in, a decision to retire coal-fired generating facilities earlier than their currently estimated useful lives.
Management is seeking or will seek regulatory recovery, as necessary, for any net book value remaining when the
plants are retired. To the extent the net book value of these generation assets is not deemed recoverable, it could
materially reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.
Regulated Generating Units that have been Retired
SWEPCo
In April 2016, Welsh Plant, Unit 2 was retired. As part of the 2016 Texas Base Rate Case, the PUCT authorized
recovery of SWEPCo’s Texas jurisdictional share of Welsh Plant, Unit 2, but denied SWEPCo the ability to earn a
return on this investment resulting in a disallowance of $7 million in 2017. See “2016 Texas Base Rate Case” section of
Note 4 for additional information. As part of the 2019 Arkansas Base Rate Case, SWEPCo received approval from the
APSC to recover the Arkansas jurisdictional share of Welsh Plant, Unit 2. In December 2020, SWEPCo filed a request
with the LPSC to recover the Louisiana jurisdictional share of Welsh Plant, Unit 2. In January 2023, the LPSC
approved a settlement agreement which provided recovery of Welsh Plant, Unit 2 as requested. See “2020 Louisiana
Base Rate Case” section of Note 4 for additional information.
In December 2021, the Dolet Hills Power Station was retired. As part of the 2020 Texas Base Rate Case, the PUCT
authorized recovery of SWEPCo’s Texas jurisdictional share of the Dolet Hills Power Station through 2046, but denied
SWEPCo the ability to earn a return on this investment resulting in a disallowance of $12 million in 2021. As part of
the 2021 Arkansas Base Rate Case, the APSC authorized recovery of SWEPCo’s Arkansas jurisdictional share of the
Dolet Hills Power Station through 2027, but denied SWEPCo the ability to earn a return on this investment resulting in
a disallowance of $2 million in the second quarter of 2022. Also, the APSC did not rule on the prudency of the early
retirement of the Dolet Hills Power Station, which will be addressed in a future proceeding. As part of the 2020
Louisiana Base Rate Case, the LPSC authorized the recovery of SWEPCo’s Louisiana share of the Dolet Hills Power
Station, through a separate rider, through 2032, but did not rule on the prudency of the early retirement of the plant,
which is being addressed in a separate proceeding. See “2020 Texas Base Rate Case”, “2020 Louisiana Base Rate
Case” and “2021 Arkansas Base Rate Case” sections of Note 4 for additional information.
Regulated Generating Units to be Retired
PSO
In 2014, PSO received final approval from the Federal EPA to close Northeastern Plant, Unit 3, in 2026. The plant was
originally scheduled to close in 2040. As a result of the early retirement date, PSO revised the useful life of
Northeastern Plant, Unit 3, to the projected retirement date of 2026 and the incremental depreciation is being deferred
as a regulatory asset. As part of the 2021 Oklahoma Base Rate Case, PSO will continue to recover Northeastern Plant,
Unit 3 through 2040.
265
SWEPCo
In November 2020, management announced plans to retire Pirkey Plant in 2023 and that it will cease using coal at the
Welsh Plant in 2028. As a result of the announcement, SWEPCo began recording a regulatory asset for accelerated
depreciation.
The table below summarizes the net book value including CWIP, before cost of removal and materials and supplies, as
of December 31, 2022, of generating facilities planned for early retirement:
PlantNet Book
ValueAccelerated
Depreciation
Regulatory AssetCost of Removal
Regulatory LiabilityProjected
Retirement DateCurrent Authorized
Recovery PeriodAnnual
Depreciation (a)
(dollars in millions)
Northeastern Plant, Unit 3$ 136.3 $ 145.8 $ 20.2 (b) 2026 (c) $ 14.9 
Pirkey Plant 35.1 179.5 39.8 2023 (d) 11.7 
Welsh Plant, Units 1 and 3 416.8 85.6 58.3 (e) 2028 (f) 37.9 
(a) Represents the amount of annual depreciation that has been collected from customers over the prior 12-month period.
(b) Includes Northeastern Plant, Unit 4, which was retired in 2016. Removal of Northeastern Plant, Unit 4, will be performed with Northeastern Plant, Unit 3,
after retirement.
(c) Northeastern Plant, Unit 3 is currently being recovered through 2040.
(d) Pirkey Plant is currently being recovered through 2032 in the Louisiana jurisdiction and through 2045 in the Arkansas and Texas jurisdictions.
(e) Includes Welsh Plant, Unit 2, which was retired in 2016. Removal of Welsh Plant, Unit 2, will be performed with Welsh Plant, Units 1 and 3, after
retirement.
(f) Unit 1 is being recovered through 2027 in the Louisiana jurisdiction and through 2037 in the Arkansas and Texas jurisdictions. Unit 3 is being recovered
through 2032 in the Louisiana jurisdiction and through 2042 in the Arkansas and Texas jurisdictions.
Dolet Hills Power Station and Related Fuel Operations (Applies to AEP and SWEPCo)
In 2020, management of SWEPCo and CLECO determined DHLC would not develop additional Oxbow Lignite
Company (Oxbow) mining areas for future lignite extraction and ceased extraction of lignite at the mine in May 2020.
In April 2020, SWEPCo and CLECO jointly filed a notification letter to the LPSC providing notice of the cessation of
lignite mining. In December 2021, the Dolet Hills Power Station was retired. While in operation, DHLC provided
100% of the fuel supply to Dolet Hills Power Station.
The remaining book value of Dolet Hills Power Station non-fuel related assets are recoverable by SWEPCo through
rate riders. As of December 31, 2022, SWEPCo’s share of the net investment in the Dolet Hills Power Station is
$112 million, including materials and supplies, net of cost of removal collected in rates.
Fuel costs incurred by the Dolet Hills Power Station are recoverable by SWEPCo through active fuel clauses and are
subject to prudency determinations by the various commissions. After closure of the DHLC mining operations and the
Dolet Hills Power Station, additional reclamation and other land-related costs incurred by DHLC and Oxbow will
continue to be billed to SWEPCo and included in existing fuel clauses. As of December 31, 2022, SWEPCo had a net
under-recovered fuel balance of $257 million, inclusive of costs related to Dolet Hills Power Station billed by DHLC,
but excluding impacts of the February 2021 severe winter weather event.
In March 2021, the LPSC issued an order allowing SWEPCo to recover up to $20 million of fuel costs in 2021 and
defer approximately $32 million of additional costs with a recovery period to be determined at a later date. In August
2022, the LPSC staff filed testimony recommending fuel disallowances of $72 million, including denial of recovery of
the $32 million deferral, with refunds to customers over five years. In September 2022, SWEPCo filed rebuttal
testimony addressing the LPSC staff recommendations.
In March 2021, the APSC approved fuel rates that provide recovery of $20 million for the Arkansas share of the 2021
Dolet Hills Power Station fuel costs over five years through the existing fuel clause.
In August 2022, SWEPCo filed a fuel reconciliation with the PUCT covering the fuel period of January 1, 2020 through
December 31, 2021. Intervenor testimony is due in the first quarter of 2023 and a decision from the PUCT is expected
in the third quarter of 2023.
266
If any of these costs are not recoverable, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial
condition.
Pirkey Power Plant and Related Fuel Operations (Applies to AEP and SWEPCo)
In 2020, management announced plans to retire the Pirkey Plant in 2023. The Pirkey Plant non-fuel costs are
recoverable by SWEPCo through base rates and rate riders. As part of the 2020 Louisiana Base Rate Case, the LPSC
authorized recovery of SWEPCo’s Louisiana share of the Pirkey Plant through a separate rider. Fuel costs are recovered
through active fuel clauses and are subject to prudency determinations by the various commissions. As of December 31,
2022, SWEPCo’s share of the net investment in the Pirkey Plant is $215 million, including CWIP, before cost of
removal. Sabine is a mining operator providing mining services to the Pirkey Plant. Under the provisions of the mining
agreement, SWEPCo is required to pay, as part of the cost of lignite delivered, an amount equal to mining costs plus a
management fee. SWEPCo expects fuel deliveries, including billings of all fixed and operating costs, from Sabine to
cease during the first quarter of 2023. Under the fuel agreements, SWEPCo’s fuel inventory and unbilled fuel costs
from mining related activities were $43 million as of December 31, 2022. As of December 31, 2022, SWEPCo had a
net under-recovered fuel balance of $257 million, inclusive of costs related to Pirkey Plant billed by Sabine, but
excluding impacts of the February 2021 severe winter weather event. Upon cessation of lignite deliveries by Sabine to
the Pirkey Plant, additional operational, reclamation and other land-related costs incurred by Sabine will be billed to
SWEPCo and included in existing fuel clauses. If any of these costs are not recoverable, it could reduce future net
income and cash flows and impact financial condition.
267
Regulatory Assets and Liabilities
Regulatory assets and liabilities are comprised of the following items:
AEP
December 31,Remaining
Recovery Period 2022 2021
Current Regulatory Assets (in millions)
Under-recovered Fuel Costs - earns a return $ 625.7 $ 409.4 1 year
Under-recovered Fuel Costs - does not earn a return 565.3 175.7 1 year
Unrecovered Winter Storm Fuel Costs - earns a return (a) 95.8 62.7 1 year
Total Current Regulatory Assets (b) $ 1,286.8 $ 647.8 
Noncurrent Regulatory Assets
Regulatory assets pending final regulatory approval:
Regulatory Assets Currently Earning a Return
Pirkey Plant Accelerated Depreciation $ 116.5 $ 87.0 
Welsh Plant, Units 1 and 3 Accelerated Depreciation 85.6 45.9 
Unrecovered Winter Storm Fuel Costs 84.6 367.5 
Dolet Hills Power Station Fuel Costs - Louisiana 32.0 30.9 
Dolet Hills Power Station Accelerated Depreciation (c) 9.7 72.3 
Plant Retirement Costs - Unrecovered Plant, Louisiana — 35.2 
Other Regulatory Assets Pending Final Regulatory Approval 27.2 9.2 
Total Regulatory Assets Currently Earning a Return 355.6 648.0 
Regulatory Assets Currently Not Earning a Return
Storm-Related Costs 332.7 241.8 
2020-2022 Virginia Triennial Under-Earnings 37.9 15.1 
Plant Retirement Costs - Asset Retirement Obligation Costs 25.9 25.9 
Other Regulatory Assets Pending Final Regulatory Approval 53.9 55.1 
Total Regulatory Assets Currently Not Earning a Return 450.4 337.9 
Total Regulatory Assets Pending Final Regulatory Approval 806.0 985.9 
Regulatory assets approved for recovery:
Regulatory Assets Currently Earning a Return
Plant Retirement Costs - Unrecovered Plant (d) 511.4 522.2 24 years
Long-term Under-recovered Fuel Costs - Oklahoma 252.7 — 2 years
Long-term Under-recovered Fuel Costs - Virginia 223.3 — 2 years
Unrecovered Winter Storm Fuel Costs (e) 148.6 679.3 5 years
Pirkey Plant Accelerated Depreciation - Louisiana 63.0 — 10 years
Rockport Plant Dry Sorbent Injection System and Selective Catalytic Reduction 56.6 66.6 6 years
Plant Retirement Costs - Unrecovered Plant, Dolet Hills Power Station, Louisiana 45.1 — 10 years
Meter Replacement Costs 34.2 44.9 5 years
Environmental Control Projects 33.9 36.2 18 years
Cook Plant Uprate Project 25.3 27.7 11 years
Ohio Distribution Decoupling 19.5 41.6 2 years
Other Regulatory Assets Approved for Recovery 99.5 116.6 various
Total Regulatory Assets Currently Earning a Return 1,513.1 1,535.1 
Regulatory Assets Currently Not Earning a Return
Pension and OPEB Funded Status 975.4 677.0 12 years
Plant Retirement Costs - Asset Retirement Obligation Costs 303.2 293.2 20 years
Unamortized Loss on Reacquired Debt 103.8 111.2 26 years
Cook Plant Nuclear Refueling Outage Levelization 81.2 32.0 3 years
Plant Retirement Costs - Unrecovered Plant, Texas 51.7 51.9 24 years
Peak Demand Reduction/Energy Efficiency 41.7 40.8 4 years
Unrealized Loss on Forward Commitments 40.1 100.8 10 years
Fuel and Purchased Power Adjustment Rider 38.1 12.1 2 years
Ohio Enhanced Service Reliability Plan 33.3 9.5 2 years
2017-2019 Virginia Triennial Under-Earnings 30.1 — 2 years
Postemployment Benefits 27.7 29.1 3 years
Vegetation Management 25.8 29.3 3 years
Smart Grid Costs 25.4 19.3 2 years
Plant Retirement Costs - Unrecovered Plant, Arkansas 21.1 — 5 years
PJM/SPP Annual Formula Rate True-up 20.3 17.6 2 years
Virginia Transmission Rate Adjustment Clause 18.7 37.2 2 years
Storm-Related Costs 11.9 25.4 2 years
Texas Transmission Cost Recovery Factor 3.8 30.6 2 years
Other Regulatory Assets Approved for Recovery 108.8 104.3 various
Total Regulatory Assets Currently Not Earning a Return 1,962.1 1,621.3 
Total Regulatory Assets Approved for Recovery 3,475.2 3,156.4 
Total Noncurrent Regulatory Assets (f) $ 4,281.2 $ 4,142.3 
268
(a)In 2022, Unrecovered Winter Storm Costs in the Arkansas and Texas jurisdictions were approved for recovery by the APSC and PUCT. As of December 31,
2022, Unrecovered Winter Storm Fuel Costs in the Louisiana jurisdiction are pending final regulatory approval with the LPSC. The current asset balance
represents amounts expected to be recovered in the Arkansas, Louisiana and Texas jurisdiction over the next 12 months. See “February 2021 Severe Winter
Weather Impacts in SPP” section of SWEPCo Rate Matters in Note 4 for additional information.
(b)Amounts exclude $23 million and $8 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, of Regulatory Asset for Under-Recovered Fuel Costs assets
classified as Assets Held for Sale on the balance sheet. See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional information.
(c)2022 amount includes the FERC jurisdiction. 2021 amounts include Arkansas, Louisiana and FERC jurisdictions.
(d)Northeastern Plant, Unit 3 is approved for recovery through 2040, but expected to retire in 2026. PSO records a regulatory asset for accelerated
depreciation. See “Regulated Generating Units to be Retired” section above for additional information.
(e)In February 2022, the OCC approved PSO’s securitization of the Unrecovered Winter Storm Fuel Costs. In September 2022, PSO received proceeds of
$687 million from the ODFA which issued ratepayer-backed securitization bonds for the purpose of reimbursing PSO for extraordinary fuel costs and
purchases of electricity incurred during the February 2021 severe winter weather event, which were previously recorded as Regulatory Assets on PSO’s
balance sheet. See “February 2021 Severe Winter Weather Impacts in SPP” section of PSO Rate Matters in Note 4 for additional information.
(f)Amounts exclude $481 million and $477 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, of Regulatory Assets classified as Assets Held for Sale on
the balance sheet. See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional information.
269
AEP
December  31, Remaining
2022 2021 Refund Period
Curr ent Regulatory Liabilities (in millions)
Over -recovered Fuel Costs - pays a return $ 1.4 $ — 1 year
Over -recovered Fuel Costs - does not pay a return — 1.5 
Total Curr ent Regulatory Liabilities $ 1.4 $ 1.5 
Noncurr ent Regulatory Liabilities and
Deferr ed Investment Tax Cr edits
Regulatory liabilities pending final r egulatory determination:
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Paying a Return
Income Taxes, Net (a) $ 148.6  $ 262.2  
Total Regulatory Liabilities Curr ently Paying a Return 148.6  262.2  
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Not Paying a Return
Other Regulatory Liabilities Pending Final Regulatory Determination 2.0 0.2 
Total Regulatory Liabilities Curr ently Not Paying a Return 2.0 0.2 
Total Regulatory Liabilities Pending Final Regulatory Determination 150.6  262.4  
Regulatory liabilities appr oved for  payment:
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Paying a Return
Asset Removal Costs 3,315.3  3,172.1  (b)
Income Taxes, Net (a) 2,479.3  2,711.4 (c)
Rockport Plant, Unit 2 Accelerated Depreciation for Leasehold Improvements 53.8 4.2 6 years
Renewable Ener gy Surchar ge - Michigan 23.2 14.9 2 years
Other Regulatory Liabilities Approved for Payment 9.5 16.1 various
Total Regulatory Liabilities Curr ently Paying a Return 5,881.1  5,918.7  
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Not Paying a Return
Excess Nuclear Decommissioning Funding 1,318.5  1,939.7  (d)
Deferred Investment Tax Credits 237.3  248.5  34 years
OVEC Purchased Power 47.1 14.8 2 years
Spent Nuclear Fuel 45.8 49.5 (d)
Unrealized Gain on Forward Commitments 41.2 37.2 2 years
2017-2019 Virginia Triennial Revenue Provision 39.1 41.6 26 years
PJM Costs and Of f-system Sales Mar gin Sharing - Indiana 34.2 — 2 years
Over -recovered Fuel Costs - Ohio 32.2 15.2 10 years
PJM Transmission Enhancement Refund 32.1 42.9 3 years
Transition and Restoration Char ges - Texas 29.4 26.3 7 years
Peak Demand Reduction/Ener gy Ef ficiency 28.6 28.6 2 years
Other Regulatory Liabilities Approved for Payment 82.4 60.9 various
Total Regulatory Liabilities Curr ently Not Paying a Return 1,967.9  2,505.2  
Total Regulatory Liabilities Appr oved for  Payment 7,849.0  8,423.9  
Total Noncurr ent Regulatory Liabilities and Deferr ed Investment Tax Cr edits
(e) $ 7,999.6  $ 8,686.3  
(a) Predominately pays a return due to the inclusion of Excess ADIT in rate base.
(b) Relieved as removal costs are incurred.
(c) Refunded over the period for which the related deferred income tax reverse, which is generally based on the expected life for the underlying assets. Excess
ADIT Associated with Certain Depreciable Property is refunded over the remaining depreciable life of the underlying assets. Excess ADIT that is Not
Subject to Rate Normalization Requirements were $237 million and $387 million for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The
remaining balance of Excess ADIT that is Not Subject to Rate Normalization Requirements as of December 31, 2022 is to be refunded over 6 years.
(d) Relieved when plant is decommissioned.
(e) Amounts exclude $116 million and $148 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, of Regulatory Liabilities and Deferred Investment Tax
Credits classified as Liabilities Held for Sale on the balance sheet. See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional information.
270
AEP  Texas
December  31,Remaining
Recovery
Period Regulatory Assets: 2022 2021
(in millions)
Noncurr ent Regulatory Assets
Regulatory assets pending final r egulatory appr oval:
Regulatory Assets Currently Earning a Return
Texas Mobile Generation Lease Payments $ 17.6 $ — 
Total Regulatory Assets Curr ently Earning a Return 17.6 — 
Regulatory Assets Currently Not Earning a Return
Storm-Related Costs 26.7 22.4 
Vegetation Management Program 5.2 5.2 
Texas Retail Electric Provider Bad Debt Expense 4.1 4.1 
Other Regulatory Assets Pending Final Regulatory Approval 13.4 9.5 
Total Regulatory Assets Curr ently Not Earning a Return 49.4 41.2 
Total Regulatory Assets Pending Final Regulatory Appr oval 67.0 41.2 
Regulatory assets appr oved for  recovery:
Regulatory Assets Currently Earning a Return
Meter Replacement Costs 16.1 22.7 4 years
Advanced Metering System — 10.6 
Other Regulatory Assets Approved for Recovery 1.4 2.1 various
Total Regulatory Assets Curr ently Earning a Return 17.5 35.4 
Regulatory Assets Currently Not Earning a Return
Pension and OPEB Funded Status 173.2  119.0 12 years
Vegetation Management Program 12.1 17.4 3 years
Peak Demand Reduction/Ener gy Ef ficiency 11.9 14.5 2 years
Storm-Related Costs 8.5 12.8 2 years
Texas Transmission Cost Recovery Factor 3.8 30.6 2 years
Other Regulatory Assets Approved for Recovery 4.3 4.3 various
Total Regulatory Assets Curr ently Not Earning a Return 213.8  198.6  
Total Regulatory Assets Appr oved for  Recovery 231.3  234.0  
Total Noncurr ent Regulatory Assets $ 298.3  $ 275.2  
271
AEP  Texas
December  31,Remaining
Refund
Period Regulatory Liabilities: 2022 2021
(in millions)
Noncurr ent Regulatory Liabilities and
Deferr ed Investment Tax Cr edits
Regulatory liabilities pending final r egulatory determination:
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Paying a Return
Income Taxes, Net (a) $ 13.0 $ 13.0 
Total Regulatory Liabilities Curr ently Paying a Return 13.0 13.0 
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Not Paying a Return
Other Regulatory Liabilities Pending Final Regulatory Determination 1.8 — 
Total Regulatory Liabilities Curr ently Not Paying a Return 1.8 — 
Total Regulatory Liabilities Pending Final Regulatory Determination 14.8 13.0 
Regulatory liabilities appr oved for  payment:
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Paying a Return
Asset Removal Costs 766.8  744.7  (b)
Income Taxes, Net (a) 431.6  445.3  (c)
Other Regulatory Liabilities Approved for Payment 4.3 4.8 various
Total Regulatory Liabilities Curr ently Paying a Return 1,202.7  1,194.8  
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Not Paying a Return
Transition and Restoration Char ges 29.4 26.3 7 years
Other Regulatory Liabilities Approved for Payment 12.7 7.9 various
Total Regulatory Liabilities Curr ently Not Paying a Return 42.1 34.2 
Total Regulatory Liabilities Appr oved for  Payment 1,244.8  1,229.0  
Total Noncurr ent Regulatory Liabilities and Deferr ed Investment Tax Cr edits $ 1,259.6  $ 1,242.0  
(a) Predominately pays a return due to the inclusion of Excess ADIT  in rate base.
(b) Relieved as removal costs are incurred.
(c) Refunded over the period for which the related deferred income tax reverse, which is generally based on the expected life for the
underlying assets. Excess ADIT  Associated with Certain Depreciable Property is refunded over the remaining depreciable life of the
underlying assets.
272
AEPTCo
December  31,Remaining
Recovery
Period Regulatory Assets: 2022 2021
(in millions)
Noncurr ent Regulatory Assets
Regulatory assets appr oved for  recovery:
Regulatory Assets Currently Not Earning a Return
PJM/SPP  Annual Formula Rate True-up $ 6.8 $ 8.5 2 years
Total Regulatory Assets Appr oved for  Recovery 6.8 8.5 
Total Noncurr ent Regulatory Assets (a) $ 6.8 $ 8.5 
AEPTCo
December  31,Remaining
Refund
Period Regulatory Liabilities: 2022 2021
(in millions)
Noncurr ent Regulatory Liabilities
Regulatory liabilities pending final r egulatory determination:
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Paying a Return
Income Taxes, Net (b) $ 8.7 $ 8.7 
Total Regulatory Liabilities Pending Final Regulatory Determination 8.7 8.7 
Regulatory liabilities appr oved for  payment:
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Paying a Return
Asset Removal Costs 356.1  271.4  (c)
Income Taxes, Net (b) 350.2  364.0  (d)
Total Regulatory Liabilities Appr oved for  Payment 706.3  635.4  
Total Noncurr ent Regulatory Liabilities (e) $ 715.0  $ 644.1  
(a) Amounts exclude $346 thousand and $0 as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively , of Regulatory Assets classified as Assets Held
for Sale on the balance sheet. See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional information.
(b) Predominately pays a return due to the inclusion of Excess ADIT  in rate base.
(c) Relieved as removal costs are incurred.
(d) Refunded over the period for which the related deferred income tax reverse, which is generally based  on the expected life for the
underlying assets. Excess ADIT  Associated with Certain Depreciable Property is refunded over the remaining depreciable life of the
underlying assets. Excess ADIT  that is Not Subject to Rate Normalization Requirements were $16 million and $26 million for the years
ended December 31, 2022  and 2021, respectively . The remaining balance of Excess ADIT  that is Not Subject to Rate Normalization
Requirements as of December 31, 2022 is to be refunded over 6 years.
(e) Amounts exclude $8 million and $8 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respec tively , of Regulatory Liabilities classified as
Liabilities Held for Sale on the balance sheet. See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional information.
273
APCo
December  31,Remaining
Recovery
Period Regulatory Assets: 2022 2021
(in millions)
Curr ent Regulatory Assets
Under -recovered Fuel Costs - earns a return $ 180.7  $ 127.2  1 year
Under -recovered Fuel Costs - does not earn a return 292.4  74.1 1 year
Total Curr ent Regulatory Assets $ 473.1  $ 201.3  
Noncurr ent Regulatory Assets
Regulatory assets pending final r egulatory appr oval:
Regulatory Assets Currently Earning a Return
COVID-19 - Virginia $ 7.0 $ 6.8 
Total Regulatory Assets Curr ently Earning a Return 7.0 6.8 
Regulatory Assets Currently Not Earning a Return
Storm-Related Costs - West Virginia 72.6 53.7 
2020-2022 Virginia Triennial Under -Earnings 37.9 15.1 
Plant Retirement Costs - Asset Retirement Obligation Costs 25.9 25.9 
Other Regulatory Assets Pending Final Regulatory Approval 1.1 3.6 
Total Regulatory Assets Curr ently Not Earning a Return 137.5  98.3 
Total Regulatory Assets Pending Final Regulatory Appr oval 144.5  105.1  
Regulatory assets appr oved for  recovery:
Regulatory Assets Currently Earning a Return
Long-term Under -recovered Fuel Costs - Virginia 223.3  — 2 years
Plant Retirement Costs - Unrecovered Plant 75.6 110.0 21 years
Other Regulatory Assets Approved for Recovery 0.4 0.4 various
Total Regulatory Assets Curr ently Earning a Return 299.3  110.4 
Regulatory Assets Currently Not Earning a Return
Plant Retirement Costs - Asset Retirement Obligation Costs 303.1  293.1  15 years
Pension and OPEB Funded Status 108.3  62.7 12 years
Unamortized Loss on Reacquired Debt 74.4 78.2 23 years
2017-2019 Virginia Triennial Under -Earnings 30.1 — 2 years
Virginia Transmission Rate Adjustment Clause 18.7 37.2 2 years
Virginia Clean Economy Act 16.7 — 2 years
Peak Demand Reduction/Ener gy Ef ficiency 15.8 17.8 4 years
Postemployment Benefits 13.7 13.3 3 years
Vegetation Management Program - West Virginia 13.7 11.9 2 years
Environmental Compliance Costs 4.3 13.7 2 years
Other Regulatory Assets Approved for Recovery 16.0 14.2 various
Total Regulatory Assets Curr ently Not Earning a Return 614.8  542.1  
Total Regulatory Assets Appr oved for  Recovery 914.1  652.5  
Total Noncurr ent Regulatory Assets $ 1,058.6  $ 757.6  
274
APCo
December  31,Remaining
Refund
Period Regulatory Liabilities: 2022 2021
(in millions)
Noncurr ent Regulatory Liabilities and
Deferr ed Investment Tax Cr edits
Regulatory liabilities pending final r egulatory determination:
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Paying a Return
Income Taxes, Net (a) $ 30.5 $ 4.5 
Total Regulatory Liabilities Pending Final Regulatory Determination 30.5 4.5 
Regulatory liabilities appr oved for  payment:
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Paying a Return
Asset Removal Costs 713.5  703.3  (b)
Income Taxes, Net (a) 291.3  432.9  (c)
Deferred Investment Tax Credits 0.3 0.3 31 years
Total Regulatory Liabilities Curr ently Paying a Return 1,005.1  1,136.5  
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Not Paying a Return
2017-2019 Virginia Triennial Revenue Provision 39.1 41.6 26 years
Unrealized Gain on Forward Commitments 34.5 28.2 2 years
Over -recovered Deferred Wind Power Costs - Virginia 13.6 8.4 2 years
PJM Transmission Enhancement Refund 9.8 13.0 3 years
Other Regulatory Liabilities Approved for Payment 11.0 6.6 various
Total Regulatory Liabilities Curr ently Not Paying a Return 108.0  97.8 
Total Regulatory Liabilities Appr oved for  Payment 1,113.1 1,234.3  
Total Noncurr ent Regulatory Liabilities and Deferr ed Investment Tax Cr edits $ 1,143.6  $ 1,238.8  
(a) Predominately pays a return due to the inclusion of Excess ADIT  in rate base.
(b) Relieved as removal costs are incurred.
(c) Refunded over the period for which the related deferred income tax reverse, which is generally based  on the expected life for the
underlying assets. Excess ADIT  Associated with Certain Depreciable Property is refunded over the remaining depreciable life of the
underlying assets. Excess ADIT  that is Not Subject to Rate Normalization Requirements were $19 million and $84 million for the years
ended December 31, 2022  and 2021, respectively . The remaining balance of Excess ADIT  that is Not Subject to Rate Normalization
Requirements as of December 31, 2022 is to be refunded over 6 years.
275
I&M
December  31,Remaining
Recovery
Period Regulatory Assets: 2022 2021
(in millions)
Curr ent Regulatory Assets
Under -recovered Fuel Costs, Michigan - earns a return $ 9.0 $ 6.4 1 year
Under -recovered Fuel Costs, Indiana - does not earn a return 38.1 — 1 year
Total Curr ent Regulatory Assets $ 47.1 $ 6.4 
Noncurr ent Regulatory Assets
Regulatory assets pending final r egulatory appr oval:
Regulatory Assets Currently Earning a Return
Other Regulatory Assets Pending Final Regulatory Approval $ 0.1 $ 0.1 
Total Regulatory Assets Curr ently Earning a Return 0.1 0.1 
Regulatory Assets Currently Not Earning a Return
Storm-Related Costs - Indiana 21.6 — 
Other Regulatory Assets Pending Final Regulatory Approval 2.0 3.6 
Total Regulatory Assets Curr ently Not Earning a Return 23.6 3.6 
Total Regulatory Assets Pending Final Regulatory Appr oval 23.7 3.7 
Regulatory assets appr oved for  recovery:
Regulatory Assets Currently Earning a Return
Plant Retirement Costs - Unrecovered Plant 147.0  170.8  6 years
Rockport Plant Dry Sorbent Injection System and Selective Catalytic Reduction 56.6 66.6 6 years
Cook Plant Uprate Project 25.3 27.7 11 years
Deferred Cook Plant Life Cycle Management Project Costs - Michigan, FERC 12.1 13.1 12 years
Cook Plant Turbine - Indiana 9.0 9.7 16 years
Cook Plant Study Costs 8.7 9.4 13 years
Other Regulatory Assets Approved for Recovery 11.9 6.0 various
Total Regulatory Assets Curr ently Earning a Return 270.6  303.3  
Regulatory Assets Currently Not Earning a Return
Cook Plant Nuclear Refueling Outage Levelization 81.2 32.0 3 years
Pension and OPEB Funded Status 26.9 — 12 years
Unamortized Loss on Reacquired Debt 12.9 14.2 26 years
Peak Demand Ener gy Ef ficiency 10.3 2.8 2 years
Postemployment Benefits 7.7 9.0 3 years
Storm-Related Costs - Indiana 3.4 12.6 2 years
PJM Costs and Of f-system Sales Mar gin Sharing - Indiana — 15.1 
Other Regulatory Assets Approved for Recovery 22.9 18.2 various
Total Regulatory Assets Curr ently Not Earning a Return 165.3  103.9  
Total Regulatory Assets Appr oved for  Recovery 435.9  407.2  
Total Noncurr ent Regulatory Assets $ 459.6  $ 410.9  
276
I&M
December  31,Remaining
Refund
Period Regulatory Liabilities: 2022 2021
(in millions)
Curr ent Regulatory Liabilities
Over -recovered Fuel Costs, Indiana - does not pay a return $ — $ 1.5 
Total Curr ent Regulatory Liabilities $ — $ 1.5 
Noncurr ent Regulatory Liabilities and
Deferr ed Investment Tax Cr edits
Regulatory liabilities pending final r egulatory determination:
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Paying a Return
Income Taxes, Net (a) (b) $ (87.7)$ — 
Total Regulatory Liabilities Pending Final Regulatory Determination (87.7) — 
Regulatory liabilities appr oved for  payment:
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Paying a Return
Asset Removal Costs 170.7  179.7  (c)
Income Taxes, Net (a) 168.6  182.6  (d)
Renewable Ener gy Surchar ge - Michigan 23.2 14.9 2 years
Other Regulatory Liabilities Approved for Payment 3.0 7.0 various
Total Regulatory Liabilities Curr ently Paying a Return 365.5  384.2  
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Not Paying a Return
Excess Nuclear Decommissioning Funding 1,318.5  1,939.7  (e)
Spent Nuclear Fuel 45.8 49.5 (e)
PJM Costs and Of f-system Sales Mar gin Sharing - Indiana 34.2 — 2 years
Deferred Investment Tax Credits 17.4 22.4 28 years
Pension OPEB Funded Status — 27.6 
Environmental Cost Rider - Indiana — 10.6 
Other Regulatory Liabilities Approved for Payment 8.5 13.9 various
Total Regulatory Liabilities Curr ently Not Paying a Return 1,424.4  2,063.7  
Total Regulatory Liabilities Appr oved for  Payment 1,789.9  2,447.9  
Total Noncurr ent Regulatory Liabilities and Deferr ed Investment Tax Cr edits $ 1,702.2  $ 2,447.9  
(a) Predominately pays a return due to the inclusion of Excess ADIT  in rate base.
(b) Represents an income tax related regulatory asset, which is presented within net regulatory liabilities on the balance sheet.
(c) Relieved as removal costs are incurred.
(d) Refunded over the period for which the related deferred income tax reverse, which is generally based  on the expected life for the
underlying assets. Excess ADIT  Associated with Certain Depreciable Property is refunded over the remaining depreciable life of the
underlying assets. Excess ADIT  that is Not Subject to Rate Normalization Requirements were $42 million and $90 million for the years
ended December 31, 2022  and 2021, respectively . The remaining balance of Excess ADIT  that is Not Subject to Rate Normalization
Requirements as of December 31, 2022 is to be refunded over 6 years.
(e) Relieved when plant is decommissioned.
277
OPCo
December  31,Remaining
Recovery
Period Regulatory Assets: 2022 2021
(in millions)
Curr ent Regulatory Assets
Under -recovered Fuel Costs - does not earn a return $ 3.8 $ — 1 year
Total Curr ent Regulatory Assets $ 3.8 $ — 
Noncurr ent Regulatory Assets
Regulatory assets pending final r egulatory appr oval:
Regulatory Assets Currently Not Earning a Return
Storm-Related Costs $ 33.8 $ 3.8 
Total Regulatory Assets Pending Final Regulatory Appr oval 33.8 3.8 
Regulatory assets appr oved for  recovery:
Regulatory Assets Currently Earning a Return
Ohio Distribution Decoupling 19.5 41.6 2 years
Ohio Basic Transmission Cost Rider 14.3 5.2 2 years
Ohio Economic Development Rider 1.1 10.1 2 years
Total Regulatory Assets Curr ently Earning a Return 34.9 56.9 
Regulatory Assets Currently Not Earning a Return
Pension and OPEB Funded Status 142.7  83.3 12 years
Unrealized Loss on Forward Commitments 40.0 92.1 10 years
Ohio Enhanced Service Reliability Plan 33.3 9.5 2 years
Smart Grid Costs 25.4 19.3 2 years
Postemployment Benefits 6.2 6.2 3 years
PJM Load Service Entity Formula Rate True-up — 7.5 
Other Regulatory Assets Approved for Recovery 11.0 14.4 various
Total Regulatory Assets Curr ently Not Earning a Return 258.6  232.3  
Total Regulatory Assets Appr oved for  Recovery 293.5  289.2  
Total Noncurr ent Regulatory Assets $ 327.3  $ 293.0  
278
OPCo
December  31,Remaining
Refund
Period 2022 2021
Regulatory Liabilities: (in millions)
Noncurr ent Regulatory Liabilities and
Deferr ed Investment Tax Cr edits
Regulatory liabilities pending final r egulatory determination:
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Not Paying a Return
Other Regulatory Liabilities Pending Final Regulatory Determination $ 0.2 $ 0.2 
Total Regulatory Liabilities Pending Final Regulatory Determination 0.2 0.2 
Regulatory liabilities appr oved for  payment:
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Paying a Return
Asset Removal Costs 466.5  467.6  (a)
Income Taxes, Net (b) 451.9  480.6  (c)
Total Regulatory Liabilities Curr ently Paying a Return 918.4  948.2  
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Not Paying a Return
OVEC Purchased Power 47.1 14.8 2 years
Over -recovered Fuel Costs 32.2 15.2 10 years
Peak Demand Reduction/Ener gy Ef ficiency 23.6 22.5 2 years
PJM Transmission Enhancement Refund 14.7 19.6 3 years
Other Regulatory Liabilities Approved for Payment 7.8 0.4 various
Total Regulatory Liabilities Curr ently Not Paying a Return 125.4  72.5 
Total Regulatory Liabilities Appr oved for  Payment 1,043.8  1,020.7  
Total Noncurr ent Regulatory Liabilities and Deferr ed Investment Tax Cr edits $ 1,044.0  $ 1,020.9  
(a) Relieved as removal costs are incurred.
(b) Predominately pays a return due to the inclusion of Excess ADIT  in rate base.
(c) Refunded over the period for which the related deferred income tax reverse, which is generally based  on the expected life for the
underlying assets. Excess ADIT  Associated with Certain Depreciable Property is refunded over the remaining depreciable life of the
underlying assets. Excess ADIT that is Not Subject to Rate Normalization Requirements were $162 millio n and $191 millio n for the
years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respe ctively . The remaining balance of Excess ADIT  that is Not Subject to Rate
Normalization Requirements as of December 31, 2022 is to be refunded over 6 years.
    
279
PSO
December  31,Remaining
Recovery
Period 2022 2021
Regulatory Assets: (in millions)
Curr ent Regulatory Assets
Under -recovered Fuel Costs - earns a return $ 178.7  $ 194.6  1 year
Total Curr ent Regulatory Assets $ 178.7  $ 194.6  
Noncurr ent Regulatory Assets
Regulatory assets pending final r egulatory appr oval:
Regulatory Assets Currently Not Earning a Return
Storm-Related Costs $ 25.5 $ 13.9 
Other Regulatory Assets Pending Final Regulatory Approval 0.1 0.3 
Total Regulatory Assets Pending Final Regulatory Appr oval 25.6 14.2 
Regulatory assets appr oved for  recovery:
Regulatory Assets Currently Earning a Return
Long-term Under -recovered Fuel Costs - Oklahoma 252.7  — 2 years
Plant Retirement Costs - Unrecovered Plant (a) 240.6  227.6  24 years
Environmental Control Projects 23.9 25.2 18 years
Meter Replacement Costs 18.1 22.2 5 years
Storm-Related Costs 8.4 17.4 2 years
Unrecovered Winter Storm Fuel Costs — 679.3  (b)
Other Regulatory Assets Approved for Recovery 9.1 9.8 various
Total Regulatory Assets Curr ently Earning a Return 552.8  981.5  
Regulatory Assets Currently Not Earning a Return
Pension and OPEB Funded Status 55.2 22.9 12 years
Other Regulatory Assets Approved for Recovery 20.1 18.8 various
Total Regulatory Assets Curr ently Not Earning a Return 75.3 41.7 
Total Regulatory Assets Appr oved for  Recovery 628.1  1,023.2  
Total Noncurr ent Regulatory Assets $ 653.7  $ 1,037.4  
(a) Northeastern Plant, Unit 3 is approved for recovery  through 2040, but expected to retire in 2026. PSO records a regulatory asset for
accelerated depreciation. See “Regulated Generating Units to be Retired” section above for additional information.
(b) In February 2022, the OCC  approved PSO’ s securitization of the Unrecovered Winter Storm Fuel Costs. In September 2022, PSO received
proceeds of $687 millio n from  the ODF A which issued ratepayer -backed securitization bonds for the purpose of reimbu rsing PSO for
extraordinary fuel costs and purchases of electricity incurred during the February 2021 severe winter weat her event, which were previously
recorded as Regulatory Assets on PSO’ s balance sheet. See “February 2021 Severe Winter Weather Impa cts in SPP” section of PSO Rate
Matters in Note 4 for additional information.
280
PSO
December  31,Remaining
Refund
Period 2022 2021
Regulatory Liabilities: (in millions)
Noncurr ent Regulatory Liabilities and
Deferr ed Investment Tax Cr edits
Regulatory liabilities pending final r egulatory determination:
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Paying a Return
Income Taxes, Net (a) $ 51.3 $ 56.2 
Total Regulatory Liabilities Pending Final Regulatory Determination 51.3 56.2 
Regulatory liabilities appr oved for  payment:
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Paying a Return
Income Taxes, Net (a) 380.1  423.8  (b)
Asset Removal Costs 316.3  300.2  (c)
Total Regulatory Liabilities Curr ently Paying a Return 696.4  724.0  
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Not Paying a Return
Deferred Investment Tax Credits 48.2 50.8 22 years
Other Regulatory Liabilities Approved for Payment 13.2 4.3 various
Total Regulatory Liabilities Curr ently Not Paying a Return 61.4 55.1 
Total Regulatory Liabilities Appr oved for  Payment 757.8  779.1  
Total Noncurr ent Regulatory Liabilities and Deferr ed Investment Tax Cr edits $ 809.1  $ 835.3  
(a) Predominately pays a return due to the inclusion of Excess ADIT  in rate base.
(b) Refunded over the period for which the related deferred income tax reverse, which is generally based  on the expected life for the
underlying assets. Excess ADIT  Associated with Certain Depreciable Property is refunded over the remaining depreciable life of the
underlying assets. Excess ADIT  that is Not Subject to Rate Normalization Requirements were $21 million and $46 million for the years
ended December 31, 2022  and 2021, respectively . The remaining balance of Excess ADIT  that is Not Subject to Rate Normalization
Requirements as of December 31, 2022 is to be refunded over 2 years.
(c) Relieved as removal costs are incurred.
281
SWEPCo
December  31,Remaining
Recovery
Period 2022 2021
Regulatory Assets: (in millions)
Curr ent Regulatory Assets
Under -recovered Fuel Costs - earns a return (a) $ 257.2  $ 81.2 1 year
Unrecovered Winter Storm Fuel Costs - earns a return (b) 95.8 62.7 1 year
Total Curr ent Regulatory Assets $ 353.0  $ 143.9  
Noncurr ent Regulatory Assets
Regulatory assets pending final r egulatory appr oval:
Regulatory Assets Currently Earning a Return
Pirkey Plant Accelerated Depreciation $ 116.5 $ 87.0 
Welsh Plant, Units 1 and 3 Accelerated Depreciation 85.6 45.9 
Unrecovered Winter Storm Fuel Costs (b) 84.6 367.5  
Dolet Hills Power Station Fuel Costs - Louisiana 32.0 30.9 
Dolet Hills Power Station Accelerated Depreciation (c) 9.7 72.3 
Plant Retirement Costs - Unrecovered Plant, Louisiana — 35.2 
Other Regulatory Assets Pending Final Regulatory Approval 2.5 2.4 
Total Regulatory Assets Curr ently Earning a Return 330.9  641.2  
Regulatory Assets Currently Not Earning a Return
Storm-Related Costs - Louisiana 151.5  148.0  
Asset Retirement Obligation - Louisiana 11.8 10.3 
Other Regulatory Assets Pending Final Regulatory Approval 16.0 18.4 
Total Regulatory Assets Curr ently Not Earning a Return 179.3  176.7  
Total Regulatory Assets Pending Final Regulatory Appr oval 510.2  817.9  
Regulatory assets appr oved for  recovery:
Regulatory Assets Currently Earning a Return
Unrecovered Winter Storm Fuel Costs (b) 148.6  — 5 years
Pirkey Plant Accelerated Depreciation - Louisiana 63.0 — 10 years
Plant Retirement Costs - Unrecovered Plant, Dolet Hills Power Station - Louisiana 45.1 — 10 years
Plant Retirement Costs - Unrecovered Plant, Welsh Plant, Unit 2 - Louisiana 35.2 — 10 years
Plant Retirement Costs - Unrecovered Plant, Arkansas 13.1 13.7 20 years
Environmental Controls Projects 10.0 11.0 10 years
Other Regulatory Assets Approved for Recovery 6.8 5.2 various
Total Regulatory Assets Curr ently Earning a Return 321.8  29.9 
Regulatory Assets Currently Not Earning a Return
Pension and OPEB Funded Status 96.2 73.8 12 years
Plant Retirement Costs - Unrecovered Plant, Texas 51.7 51.9 24 years
Plant Retirement Costs - Unrecovered Plant, Arkansas 21.1 — 5 years
Dolet Hills Power Station Fuel Costs - Arkansas 8.9 13.0 4 years
Other Regulatory Assets Approved for Recovery 32.5 18.8 various
Total Regulatory Assets Curr ently Not Earning a Return 210.4  157.5  
Total Regulatory Assets Appr oved for  Recovery 532.2  187.4  
Total Noncurr ent Regulatory Assets $ 1,042.4  $ 1,005.3  
(a) 2022 amount includes Arkansas and Texas jurisdictions. 2021 amount includes Arkansas, Louisiana and Texas jurisdictions.
(b) In 2022, Unrecovered Winter Storm Costs in the Arkansas and Texas jurisdictions were approved for recovery by the APSC and PUCT. As of December
31, 2022, Unrecovered Winter Storm Fuel Costs in the Louisiana jurisdiction are pending final regulatory approval with the LPSC. The current asset
balance represents amounts expected to be recovered in the Arkansas, Louisiana and Texas jurisdiction over the next 12 months. See “February 2021
Severe Winter Weather Impacts in SPP” section of SWEPCo Rate Matters in Note 4 for additional information.
(c) 2022 amount includes the FERC jurisdiction. 2021 amounts include Arkansas, Louisiana and FERC jurisdictions.
282
SWEPCo
December  31,Remaining
Refund
Period 2022 2021
Regulatory Liabilities: (in millions)
Curr ent Regulatory Liabilities
Over -recovered Fuel Costs - pays a return (a) $ 1.4 $ — 
Total Curr ent Regulatory Liabilities $ 1.4 $ — 
Noncurr ent Regulatory Liabilities and
Deferr ed Investment Tax Cr edits
Regulatory liabilities pending final r egulatory determination:
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Paying a Return
Income Taxes, Net (b) $ 7.0 $ — 
Total Regulatory Liabilities Pending Final Regulatory Determination 7.0 — 
Regulatory liabilities appr oved for  payment:
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Paying a Return
Asset Removal Costs 481.2  461.3  (c)
Income Taxes, Net (b) 327.6  330.2  (d)
Other Regulatory Liabilities Approved for Payment 2.2 2.4 various
Total Regulatory Liabilities Curr ently Paying a Return 811.0 793.9  
Regulatory Liabilities Currently Not Paying a Return
Other Regulatory Liabilities Approved for Payment 7.7 13.0 various
Total Regulatory Liabilities Curr ently Not Paying a Return 7.7 13.0 
Total Regulatory Liabilities Appr oved for  Payment 818.7  806.9  
Total Noncurr ent Regulatory Liabilities and Deferr ed Investment Tax Cr edits $ 825.7  $ 806.9  
(a) 2022 amount includes Louisiana jurisdiction.
(b) Predominately pays a return due to the inclusion of Excess ADIT  in rate base.
(c) Relieved as removal costs are incurred.
(d) Refunded over the period for which the related deferred income tax reverse, which is generally based  on the expected life for the
underlying assets. Excess ADIT  Associated with Certain Depreciable Property is refunded over the remaining depreciable life of the
underlying assets. Excess ADIT that is Not Subject to Rate Normalization Requirements were $7 millio n and $7 millio n for the years
ended December 31, 2022  and 2021, respectively . The remaining balance of Excess ADIT  that is Not Subject to Rate Normalization
Requirements as of December 31, 2022 is to be refunded over 1 year .
283
6.  COMMITMENTS, GUARANTEES AND CONTINGENCIES
The disclosures in this note apply to all Registrants unless indicated otherwise.
The Registrants are subject to certain claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business.  In addition,
the Registrants’ business activities are subject to extensive governmental regulation related to public health and the
environment.  The ultimate outcome of such pending or potential litigation against the Registrants cannot be
predicted.  Management accrues contingent liabilities only when management concludes that it is both probable that a
liability has been incurred at the date of the financial statements and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated.
When management determines that it is not probable, but rather reasonably possible that a liability has been incurred at
the date of the financial statements, management discloses such contingencies and the possible loss or range of loss if
such estimate can be made. Any estimated range is based on currently available information and involves elements of
judgment and significant uncertainties. Any estimated range of possible loss may not represent the maximum possible
loss exposure. Circumstances change over time and actual results may vary significantly from estimates.
For current proceedings not specifically discussed below, management does not anticipate that the liabilities, if any,
arising from such proceedings would have a material effect on the financial statements.
COMMITMENTS (Applies to all Registrants except AEP Texas and AEPTCo)
The AEP System has substantial commitments for fuel, energy and capacity contracts as part of the normal course of
business. Certain contracts contain penalty provisions for early termination.
In accordance with the accounting guidance for “Commitments”, the following tables summarize the Registrants’ actual
contractual commitments as of December 31, 2022:
Contractual Commitments - AEPLess Than
1 Year 2-3 Years 4-5 YearsAfter
5 Years Total
(in millions)
Fuel Purchase Contracts (a) $ 1,499.8 $1,711.8 $ 345.4 $ 252.0 $ 3,809.0 
Energy and Capacity Purchase Contracts 167.8 377.7 349.1 570.5 1,465.1 
Total $ 1,667.6 $2,089.5 $ 694.5 $ 822.5 $ 5,274.1 
Contractual Commitments - APCoLess Than
1 Year 2-3 Years 4-5 YearsAfter
5 Years Total
(in millions)
Fuel Purchase Contracts (a) $ 840.9 $1,102.9 $ 263.2 $ 9.2 $ 2,216.2 
Energy and Capacity Purchase Contracts 40.5 82.7 79.9 127.0 330.1 
Total $ 881.4 $1,185.6 $ 343.1 $ 136.2 $ 2,546.3 
Contractual Commitments - I&MLess Than
1 Year 2-3 Years 4-5 YearsAfter
5 Years Total
(in millions)
Fuel Purchase Contracts (a) $ 200.9 $ 235.2 $ 53.3 $ 222.4 $ 711.8 
Energy and Capacity Purchase Contracts 140.9 290.0 273.8 276.8 981.5 
Total $ 341.8 $ 525.2 $ 327.1 $ 499.2 $ 1,693.3 
Contractual Commitments - OPCoLess Than
1 Year 2-3 Years 4-5 YearsAfter
5 Years Total
(in millions)
Energy and Capacity Purchase Contracts $ 34.4 $ 66.5 $ 63.7 $ 169.8 $ 334.4 
284
Contractual Commitments - PSOLess Than
1 Year 2-3 Years 4-5 YearsAfter
5 Years Total
(in millions)
Fuel Purchase Contracts (a) $ 35.8 $ 14.5 $ — $ — $ 50.3 
Energy and Capacity Purchase Contracts 47.1 116.3 122.8 91.4 377.6 
Total $ 82.9 $ 130.8 $ 122.8 $ 91.4 $ 427.9 
Contractual Commitments - SWEPCoLess Than
1 Year 2-3 Years 4-5 YearsAfter
5 Years Total
(in millions)
Fuel Purchase Contracts (a) $ 133.7 $ 84.7 $ — $ — $ 218.4 
Energy and Capacity Purchase Contracts 10.1 31.6 13.2 — 54.9 
Total $ 143.8 $ 116.3 $ 13.2 $ — $ 273.3 
(a) Represents contractual commitments to purchase coal, natural gas, uranium and other consumables as fuel for
electric generation along with related transportation of the fuel.
GUARANTEES
Liabilities for guarantees are recorded in accordance with the accounting guidance for “Guarantees.”  There is no
collateral held in relation to any guarantees.  In the event any guarantee is drawn, there is no recourse to third-parties
unless specified below.
Letters of Credit (Applies to AEP and AEP Texas)
Standby letters of credit are entered into with third-parties.  These letters of credit are issued in the ordinary course of
business and cover items such as natural gas and electricity risk management contracts, construction contracts,
insurance programs, security deposits and debt service reserves.
AEP has $4 billion and $1 billion revolving credit facilities due in March 2027 and 2024, respectively, under which up
to $1.2 billion may be issued as letters of credit on behalf of subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2022, no letters of credit
were issued under the revolving credit facility.
An uncommitted facility gives the issuer of the facility the right to accept or decline each request made under the
facility. AEP issues letters of credit on behalf of subsidiaries under five uncommitted facilities totaling, as of
December 31, 2022, $400 million. The Registrants’ maximum future payments for letters of credit issued under the
uncommitted facilities as of December 31, 2022 were as follows:
Company Amount Maturity
(in millions)
AEP $ 287.4 January 2023 to December 2023
AEP Texas 1.8 July 2023
285
Guarantees of Equity Method Investees (Applies to AEP)
In 2019, AEP acquired a 50% ownership interest in five non-consolidated renewable joint ventures and two renewable
tax equity partnerships. Parent issued guarantees over the performance of the joint ventures. If a joint venture were to
default on payments or performance, Parent would be required to make payments on behalf of the joint venture. In
September 2022, AEP signed a PSA with a nonaffiliate for AEP’s interest in Flat Ridge 2, one of the five non-
consolidated joint ventures. The transaction closed in the fourth quarter of 2022. As of December 31, 2022, the
maximum potential amount of future payments associated with the remaining guarantees was $59 million, with the last
guarantee expiring in December 2035. The non-contingent liability recorded associated with these guarantees was
$5 million, with an additional $1 million expected credit loss liability for the contingent portion of the guarantees. In
accordance with the accounting guidance for guarantees, the initial recognition of the non-contingent liabilities
increased AEP’s carrying values of the respective equity method investees. Management considered historical losses,
economic conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts in the calculation of the expected credit loss. As the
joint ventures generate cash flows through PPAs, the measurement of the contingent portion of the guarantee liability is
based upon assessments of the credit quality and default probabilities of the respective PPA counterparties.
Indemnifications and Other Guarantees
Contracts
The Registrants enter into certain types of contracts which require indemnifications.  Typically these contracts include,
but are not limited to, sale agreements, lease agreements, purchase agreements and financing agreements.  Generally,
these agreements may include, but are not limited to, indemnifications around certain tax, contractual and
environmental matters.  With respect to sale agreements, exposure generally does not exceed the sale price.  As of
December 31, 2022, there were no material liabilities recorded for any indemnifications.
AEPSC conducts power purchase-and-sale activity on behalf of APCo, I&M, KPCo and WPCo, who are jointly and
severally liable for activity conducted on their behalf.  AEPSC also conducts power purchase-and-sale activity on
behalf of PSO and SWEPCo, who are jointly and severally liable for activity conducted on their behalf.
Lease Obligations
Certain Registrants lease equipment under master lease agreements.  See “Master Lease Agreements” and “AEPRO
Boat and Barge Leases” sections of Note 13 for additional information.
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTINGENCIES (Applies to All Registrants except AEPTCo)
The Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund) and State Remediation
By-products from the generation of electricity include materials such as ash, slag, sludge, low-level radioactive waste
and SNF.  Coal combustion by-products, which constitute the overwhelming percentage of these materials, are typically
treated and deposited in captive disposal facilities or are beneficially utilized.  In addition, the generation plants and
transmission and distribution facilities have used asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls and other hazardous and non-
hazardous materials.  The Registrants currently incur costs to dispose of these substances safely.
Superfund addresses clean-up of hazardous substances that are released to the environment.  The Federal EPA
administers the clean-up programs.  Several states enacted similar laws.  As of December 31, 2022, AGR, APCo, OPCo
and SWEPCo are named as a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) for one, one, two and one sites, respectively, by the
Federal EPA for which alleged liability is unresolved.  There are 11 additional sites for which APCo, I&M, KPCo,
OPCo and SWEPCo received information requests which could lead to PRP designation.  I&M
286
has also been named potentially liable at two sites under state law and AEP Texas and SWEPCo share potential liability
under state law at another site. In those instances where a PRP or defendant has been named, disposal or recycling
activities were in accordance with the then-applicable laws and regulations. Superfund does not recognize compliance
as a defense, but imposes strict liability on parties who fall within its broad statutory categories.  Liability has been
resolved for a number of sites with no significant effect on net income.
Management evaluates the potential liability for each Superfund site separately, but several general statements can be
made about potential future liability.  Allegations that materials were disposed at a particular site are often
unsubstantiated and the quantity of materials deposited at a site can be small and often non-hazardous.  Although
Superfund liability has been interpreted by the courts as joint and several, typically many parties are named as PRPs for
each site and several of the parties are financially sound enterprises.  As of December 31, 2022, management’s
estimates do not anticipate material clean-up costs for identified Superfund sites.
NUCLEAR CONTINGENCIES (APPLIES TO AEP AND I&M)
I&M owns and operates the two-unit 2,296 MW Cook Plant under licenses granted by the NRC.  I&M has a significant
future financial commitment to dispose of SNF and to safely decommission and decontaminate the plant.  The licenses
to operate the two nuclear units at the Cook Plant expire in 2034 and 2037. Management is currently evaluating
applying for license extensions for both units.  The operation of a nuclear facility also involves special risks, potential
liabilities and specific regulatory and safety requirements.  By agreement, I&M is partially liable, together with all
other electric utility companies that own nuclear generation units, for a nuclear power plant incident at any nuclear
plant in the U.S.  Should a nuclear incident occur at any nuclear power plant in the U.S., the resultant liability could be
substantial.
Decommissioning and Low-Level Waste Accumulation Disposal
The costs to decommission a nuclear plant are affected by NRC regulations and the SNF disposal
program.  Decommissioning costs are accrued over the service life of Cook Plant.  The most recent decommissioning
cost study was performed in 2021.  According to that study, the estimated cost of decommissioning and disposal of low-
level radioactive waste was $2.2 billion in 2021 non-discounted dollars, with additional ongoing costs of $7 million per
year for post decommissioning storage of SNF and an eventual cost of $33 million for the subsequent decommissioning
of the SNF storage facility, also in 2021 non-discounted dollars. I&M recovers estimated decommissioning costs for the
Cook Plant in its rates.  The amounts recovered in rates were $2 million, $4 million and $4 million for the years ended
December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.  Decommissioning costs recovered from customers are deposited in
external trusts.
As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the total decommissioning trust fund balances were $3 billion and $3.5 billion,
respectively.  The decrease in the trust fund balance was driven by unfavorable investment performance in 2022. Trust
fund earnings increase the fund assets and may decrease the amount remaining to be recovered from customers. Trust
fund losses decrease the fund assets and may increase the amount remaining to be recovered from customers.  The
decommissioning costs (including unrealized gains and losses, interest and trust funds expenses) increase or decrease
the recorded liability.
I&M continues to work with regulators and customers to establish rates designed to collect the estimated costs of
decommissioning the Cook Plant.  However, future net income and cash flows would be reduced and financial
condition could be impacted if the cost of SNF disposal and decommissioning increases and cannot be recovered.
Spent Nuclear Fuel Disposal
The federal government is responsible for permanent SNF disposal and assesses fees to nuclear plant owners for SNF
disposal.  A fee of one-mill per KWh for fuel consumed after April 6, 1983 at the Cook Plant was collected from
customers and remitted to the DOE through May 14, 2014. In May 2014, pursuant to court order from the U.S Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, the DOE adjusted the fee to $0. As of December 31, 2022
287
and 2021, fees and related interest of $286 million and $281 million, respectively, for fuel consumed prior to April 7,
1983 were recorded as Long-term Debt and funds collected from customers along with related earnings totaling $330
million and $329 million, respectively, to pay the fee, were recorded as part of Spent Nuclear Fuel and
Decommissioning Trusts on the balance sheets.  I&M has not paid the government the pre-April 1983 fees due to
continued delays and uncertainties related to the federal disposal program.
In 2011, I&M signed a settlement agreement with the federal government which permits I&M to make annual filings to
recover certain SNF storage costs incurred as a result of the government’s delay in accepting SNF for permanent
storage.  Under the settlement agreement, I&M received $3 million, $14 million and $24 million in 2022, 2021 and
2020, respectively, to recover costs and will be eligible to receive additional payment of annual claims for allowed costs
that are incurred through December 31, 2022.  The proceeds reduced costs for dry cask storage.  As of December 31,
2022 and 2021, I&M deferred $21 million and $3 million, respectively, in Prepayments and Other Current Assets and
$3 million and $21 million, respectively, in Deferred Charges and Other Noncurrent Assets on the balance sheets for
dry cask storage and related operation and maintenance costs for recovery under this agreement. See “Fair Value
Measurements of Trust Assets for Decommissioning and SNF Disposal” section of Note 11 for additional information.
Nuclear Insurance
I&M carries nuclear property insurance of $2.7 billion to cover a nuclear incident at Cook Plant including coverage for
decontamination and stabilization, as well as premature decommissioning caused by a nuclear incident.  Insurance
coverage for a nonnuclear property incident at Cook Plant is $500 million.  Additional insurance provides coverage for
a weekly indemnity payment resulting from an insured accidental outage.  I&M utilizes industry mutual insurers for the
placement of this insurance coverage.  Coverage from these industry mutual insurance programs require a contingent
financial obligation of up to $41 million for I&M, which is assessable if the insurer’s financial resources would be
inadequate to pay for industry losses.
The Price-Anderson Act, extended through December 31, 2025, establishes insurance protection for public nuclear
liability arising from a nuclear incident of $13.7 billion and applies to any incident at a licensed reactor in the
U.S.  Commercially available insurance, which must be carried for each licensed reactor, provides $450 million of
primary coverage.  In the event of a nuclear incident at any nuclear plant in the U.S., the remainder of the liability
would be provided by a deferred premium assessment of $275 million per nuclear incident on Cook Plant’s reactors
payable in annual installments of $41 million.  The number of incidents for which payments could be required is not
limited.
In the event of an incident of a catastrophic nature, I&M is covered for public nuclear liability for the first $450 million
through commercially available insurance.  The next level of liability coverage of up to $13.2 billion would be covered
by claim premium assessments made under the Price-Anderson Act. In the event nuclear losses or liabilities are
underinsured or exceed accumulated funds, I&M would seek recovery of those amounts from customers through a rate
increase. If recovery from customers is not possible, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact
financial condition.
288
OPERATIONAL CONTINGENCIES
Insurance and Potential Losses
The Registrants maintain insurance coverage normal and customary for electric utilities, subject to various
deductibles.  The Registrants also maintain property and casualty insurance that may cover certain physical damage or
third-party injuries caused by cyber security incidents. Insurance coverage includes all risks of physical loss or damage
to nonnuclear assets, subject to insurance policy conditions and exclusions.  Covered property generally includes power
plants, substations, facilities and inventories.  Excluded property generally includes transmission and distribution lines,
poles and towers.  The insurance programs also generally provide coverage against loss arising from certain claims
made by third-parties and are in excess of retentions absorbed by the Registrants.  Coverage is generally provided by a
combination of the protected cell of EIS and/or various industry mutual and/or commercial insurance carriers. See
“Nuclear Contingencies” section above for additional information.
Some potential losses or liabilities may not be insurable or the amount of insurance carried may not be sufficient to
meet potential losses and liabilities, including, but not limited to, liabilities relating to a cyber security incident or
damage to the Cook Plant and costs of replacement power in the event of an incident at the Cook Plant.  Future losses
or liabilities, if they occur, which are not completely insured, unless recovered from customers, could reduce future net
income and cash flows and impact financial condition.
Rockport Plant Litigation (Applies to AEP and I&M)
In 2013, the Wilmington Trust Company filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
against AEGCo and I&M alleging that it would be unlawfully burdened by the terms of the modified NSR consent
decree after the Rockport Plant, Unit 2 lease expiration in December 2022.  The terms of the consent decree allow the
installation of environmental emission control equipment, repowering, refueling or retirement of the unit.  The plaintiffs
sought a judgment declaring that the defendants breached the lease, must satisfy obligations related to installation of
emission control equipment and indemnify the plaintiffs.  
After the litigation proceeded at the district court and appellate court, in April 2021, I&M and AEGCo reached an
agreement to acquire 100% of the interests in Rockport Plant, Unit 2 for $116 million from certain financial institutions
that own the unit through trusts established by Wilmington Trust, the nonaffiliated owner trustee of the ownership
interests in the unit. The transaction closed at the expiration of the Rockport Plant, Unit 2 lease in December 2022 and
also resulted in a final settlement of, and release of claims in, the lease litigation.
Subsequent to the end of the Rockport Plant, Unit 2 lease in December 2022, AEGCo’s 50% ownership share of
Rockport Plant, Unit 2 is being billed to I&M under a FERC-approved UPA. I&M’s purchased power from AEGCo and
I&M’s 50% ownership share of Rockport Plant, Unit 2 electricity generated represent a merchant resource for I&M
until Rockport Plant, Unit 2 is retired in 2028. A 2021 IURC order approved a settlement agreement addressing the
future use of Rockport Plant, Unit 2 as a short-term capacity resource through the June 2023 - May 2024 PJM planning
year. The MPSC issued an order in February 2023 approving the settlement agreement on I&M’s 2022 Integrated
Resource Plan (IRP) filing, which included certain cost recovery for the remaining net book value of leasehold
improvements made during the term of the Rockport Plant, Unit 2 lease and future use of Rockport Plant, Unit 2 as a
capacity resource. If I&M cannot recover its future investment and expenses related to the merchant share of Rockport
Plant Unit 2, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.
289
Claims Challenging Transition of American Electric Power System Retirement Plan to Cash Balance Formula 
Four participants in The American Electric Power System Retirement Plan (the Plan) filed a class action complaint in
December 2021 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio against AEPSC and the Plan. When the
Plan’s benefit formula was changed in the year 2000, AEP provided a special provision for employees hired before
January 1, 2001, allowing them to continue benefit accruals under the then benefit formula for a full 10 years alongside
of the new cash balance benefit formula then being implemented.  Employees who were hired on or after January 1,
2001 accrued benefits only under the new cash balance benefit formula.  The plaintiffs assert a number of claims on
behalf of themselves and the purported class, including that: (a) the Plan violates the requirements under the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) intended to preclude back-loading the accrual of benefits to the end of a
participant’s career, (b) the Plan violates the age discrimination prohibitions of ERISA and the Age Discrimination in
Employment Act and (c) AEP failed to provide required notice regarding the changes to the Plan. Among other relief,
the Complaint seeks reformation of the Plan to provide additional benefits and the recovery of plan benefits for former
employees under such reformed plan. The plaintiffs previously had submitted claims for additional plan benefits to
AEP, which were denied. On February 15, 2022, AEPSC and the Plan filed a motion to dismiss the complaint for
failure to state a claim. On August 16, 2022, the district court granted the motion to dismiss the complaint without
prejudice. The plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to file an amended complaint, which the Court denied on December 1,
2022. The plaintiffs did not file an appeal by the deadline of January 3, 2023.
Litigation Related to Ohio House Bill 6 (HB 6) (Applies to AEP and OPCo)
In 2019, Ohio adopted and implemented HB 6 which benefits OPCo by authorizing rate recovery for certain costs
including renewable energy contracts and OVEC’s coal-fired generating units. OPCo engaged in lobbying efforts and
provided testimony during the legislative process in connection with HB 6. In July 2020, an investigation led by the
U.S. Attorney’s Office resulted in a federal grand jury indictment of an Ohio legislator and associates in connection
with an alleged racketeering conspiracy involving the adoption of HB 6. After AEP learned of the criminal allegations
against the Ohio legislator and others relating to HB 6, AEP, with assistance from outside advisors, conducted a review
of the circumstances surrounding the passage of the bill. Management does not believe that AEP was involved in any
wrongful conduct in connection with the passage of HB 6.
In August 2020, an AEP shareholder filed a putative class action lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of Ohio against AEP and certain of its officers for alleged violations of securities laws. The amended complaint
alleged misrepresentations or omissions by AEP regarding: (a) its alleged participation in or connection to public
corruption with respect to the passage of HB 6 and (b) its regulatory, legislative, political contribution, 501(c)(4)
organization contribution and lobbying activities in Ohio. The complaint sought monetary damages, among other forms
of relief. In December 2021, the district court issued an opinion and order dismissing the securities litigation complaint
with prejudice, determining that the complaint failed to plead any actionable misrepresentations or omissions. The
plaintiffs did not appeal the ruling.
In January 2021, an AEP shareholder filed a derivative action in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
Ohio purporting to assert claims on behalf of AEP against certain AEP officers and directors. In February 2021, a
second AEP shareholder filed a similar derivative action in the Court of Common Pleas of Franklin County, Ohio. In
April 2021, a third AEP shareholder filed a similar derivative action in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District
of Ohio and a fourth AEP shareholder filed a similar derivative action in the Supreme Court for the State of New York,
Nassau County. These derivative complaints allege the officers and directors made misrepresentations and omissions
similar to those alleged in the putative securities class action lawsuit filed against AEP. The derivative complaints
together assert claims for: (a) breach of fiduciary duty, (b) waste of corporate assets, (c) unjust enrichment, (d) breach
of duty for insider trading and (e) contribution for violations of sections 10(b) and 21D of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934; and seek monetary damages and changes to AEP’s corporate governance and internal policies among other
forms of relief. The court entered a scheduling order in the New York state court derivative action staying the case other
than with respect to briefing the motion to dismiss. AEP filed substantive and forum-based motions to dismiss on April
29, 2022. On September 13, 2022, the New York state court granted the forum-based motion to dismiss with prejudice
and the plaintiffs subsequently filed a notice of appeal with the New York appellate court. On January 20, 2023, the
New York plaintiff filed a motion to intervene in the pending Ohio federal court action and withdrew his appeal in New
York on January 24, 2023. AEP filed a
290
brief in opposition to intervention on February 3, 2023. The two derivative actions pending in federal district court in
Ohio have been consolidated and the plaintiffs in the consolidated action filed an amended complaint. AEP filed a
motion to dismiss the amended complaint on May 3, 2022 and briefing on the motion to dismiss has been completed.
Discovery remains stayed pending the district court’s ruling on the motion to dismiss. The plaintiff in the Ohio state
court case advised that they no longer agreed to stay the proceedings, therefore, AEP filed a motion to continue the
stays of proceedings on May 20, 2022 and the plaintiff filed an amended complaint on June 2, 2022. On June 15, 2022,
the Ohio state court entered an order continuing the stays of that case until the resolution of the consolidated derivative
actions pending in Ohio federal district court. The defendants will continue to defend against the claims. Management
is unable to determine a range of potential losses that is reasonably possible of occurring.
In March 2021, AEP received a litigation demand letter from counsel representing a purported AEP shareholder. The
litigation demand letter is directed to the Board of Directors of AEP and contains factual allegations involving HB 6
that are generally consistent with those in the derivative litigation filed in state and federal court. The letter demands,
among other things, that the AEP Board undertake an independent investigation into alleged legal violations by
directors and officers, and that, following such investigation, AEP commence a civil action for breaches of fiduciary
duty and related claims and take appropriate disciplinary action against those individuals who allegedly harmed the
company. The shareholder that sent the letter has since withdrawn the litigation demand, which is now terminated and
of no further effect.
In May 2021, AEP received a subpoena from the SEC’s Division of Enforcement seeking various documents, including
documents relating to the passage of HB 6 and documents relating to AEP’s policies and financial processes and
controls. In August 2022, AEP received a second subpoena from the SEC seeking various additional documents relating
to its ongoing investigation. AEP is cooperating fully with the SEC’s investigation, which has included taking
testimony from certain individuals. Although the outcome of the SEC’s investigation cannot be predicted, management
does not believe the results of this investigation will have a material impact on financial condition, results of operations
or cash flows.
Claims for Indemnification Related to Damages Resulting from the Federal EPA’s Denial of Alternative Closure
Deadline for Gavin Plant and Associated Findings of Compliance
In November 2022, the Federal EPA issued a final decision denying Gavin Power LLC’s requested extension to allow a
CCR surface impoundment at the Gavin Power Station to continue to receive CCR and non-CCR waste streams after
April 11, 2021 until May 4, 2023 (the Gavin Denial). As part of the Gavin Denial, the Federal EPA made several
determinations related to the CCR Rule (see “Environmental Issues - Coal Combustion Residual (CCR) Rule” section
of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional
information), including a determination that the closure of the 300 acre unlined fly ash reservoir (FAR) is noncompliant
with the CCR Rule in multiple respects. The Gavin Power Station was formerly owned and operated by AEP and was
sold to Gavin Power LLC and Lightstone Generation LLC in 2017. Pursuant to the PSA, AEP maintained responsibility
to complete closure of the FAR in accordance with the closure plan approved by the Ohio EPA which was completed in
July 2021. The PSA contains indemnification provisions, pursuant to which the owners of the Gavin Power Station
have notified AEP they believe they are entitled to indemnification for any damages that may result from the Gavin
Denial, as well as any future enforcement or litigation resulting from the Federal EPA’s determinations of
noncompliance with various aspects of the CCR Rule as part of the Gavin Denial. Management does not believe that
the owners of the Gavin Power Station have any valid claim for indemnity or otherwise against AEP under the PSA. In
addition, Gavin Power LLC, several AEP subsidiaries, and other parties have filed Petitions for Review of the Gavin
Denial with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Management is unable to determine a range
of potential losses that is reasonably possible of occurring.
291
7. ACQUISITIONS, ASSETS AND LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE, DISPOSITIONS AND IMPAIRMENTS
The disclosures in this note apply to AEP unless indicated otherwise.
ACQUISITIONS
2021
Dry Lake Solar Project (Generation & Marketing Segment) (Applies to AEP)
In November 2020, AEP signed a Purchase and Sale Agreement with a nonaffiliate to acquire a 75% ownership interest
in the entity that owns the 100 MW Dry Lake Solar Project (collectively referred to as Dry Lake) located in southern
Nevada for approximately $114 million. In March 2021, AEP closed the transaction and the solar project was placed in-
service in May 2021. Approximately $103 million of the purchase price was paid upon closing of the transaction and
the remaining $11 million was paid when the project was placed in-service. In accordance with the accounting guidance
for “Business Combinations,” management determined that the acquisition of Dry Lake represents an asset acquisition.
Additionally, and in accordance with the accounting guidance for “Consolidation,” management concluded that Dry
Lake is a VIE and that AEP is the primary beneficiary based on its power as managing member to direct the activities
that most significantly impact Dry Lake’s economic performance. As the primary beneficiary of Dry Lake, AEP
consolidates Dry Lake into its financial statements. As a result, to account for the initial consolidation of Dry Lake,
management applied the acquisition method by allocating the purchase price based on the relative fair value of the
assets acquired and noncontrolling interest assumed.  The fair value of the primary assets acquired and the
noncontrolling interest assumed was determined using the market approach.  The key input assumptions were the
transaction price paid for AEP’s interest in Dry Lake and recent third-party market transactions for similar solar
generation facilities. See Note 17 - Variable Interest Entities and Equity Method Investments for additional information.
North Central Wind Energy Facilities (Vertically Integrated Utilities Segment) (Applies to AEP, PSO and
SWEPCo)
In 2020, PSO and SWEPCo received regulatory approvals to acquire the NCWF, comprised of three Oklahoma wind
facilities totaling 1,484 MWs, on a fixed cost turn-key basis. PSO and SWEPCo own undivided interests of 45.5% and
54.5% of the NCWF, respectively. In total, the three wind facilities cost approximately $2 billion and consist of
Traverse (998 MW), Maverick (287 MW) and Sundance (199 MW). Output from the NCWF serves retail load in PSO’s
Oklahoma service territory and both retail and FERC wholesale load in SWEPCo’s service territories in Arkansas and
Louisiana. The Oklahoma and Louisiana portions of the NCWF revenue requirement, net of PTC benefit, are
recoverable through authorized riders until the amounts are reflected in base rates. Recovery of the Arkansas portion of
the NCWF revenue requirement through base rates was approved by the APSC in May 2022. The NCWF are subject to
various regulatory performance requirements. If these performance requirements are not met, PSO and SWEPCo would
recognize a regulatory liability to refund retail customers.
In April 2021, PSO and SWEPCo acquired respective undivided ownership interests in the entity that owned Sundance
during its development and construction for $270 million, the first of the three NCWF acquisitions. Immediately
following the acquisition, PSO and SWEPCo liquidated the entity and simultaneously distributed the Sundance assets
in proportion to their undivided ownership interests. Sundance was placed in-service in April 2021.
In September 2021, PSO and SWEPCo acquired respective undivided ownership interests in the entity that owned
Maverick during its development and construction for $383 million, the second of the three NCWF acquisitions.
Immediately following the acquisition, PSO and SWEPCo liquidated the entity and simultaneously distributed the
Maverick assets in proportion to their undivided ownership interests. Maverick was placed in-service in September
2021.
292
In March 2022, PSO and SWEPCo acquired respective undivided ownership interests in the entity that owned Traverse
during its development and construction for $1.2 billion, the third of the three NCWF acquisitions. Immediately
following the acquisition, PSO and SWEPCo liquidated the entity and simultaneously distributed the Traverse assets in
proportion to their undivided ownership interests. Traverse was placed in-service in March 2022.
In accordance with the guidance for “Business Combinations,” management determined that the acquisitions of the
NCWF projects represent asset acquisitions.  As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, PSO had approximately $901 million
and $316 million and SWEPCo had approximately $1.1 billion and $378 million, respectively, of gross Property, Plant
and Equipment on the balance sheets related to the NCWF projects. On an ongoing basis, management further
determined that PSO and SWEPCo should apply the joint plant accounting model to account for their respective
undivided interests in the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of the NCWF projects.
The respective Purchase and Sale Agreements (PSAs) include collective interests in numerous land contracts, as
originally executed between the nonaffiliated party and the respective owners of the properties as defined in the
contracts. These contracts provide for easement and access rights to the land that Sundance, Maverick and Traverse
were built upon. The lessee interests in the land contracts were transferred to Sundance, Maverick and Traverse (and
subsequently to PSO and SWEPCo) as a part of the closings of the respective PSAs. The current Obligations Under
Operating Leases related to the NCWF projects were not material as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 for PSO and
SWEPCo. See the table below for the noncurrent Obligations Under Operating Leases for the NCWF projects for PSO
and SWEPCo:
PSO SWEPCo
December 31,
2022December 31,
2021December 31,
2022December 31,
2021
(in millions)
Project
Sundance $ 12.6 $ 12.6 $ 15.1 $ 15.1 
Maverick 18.0 18.0 21.6 21.6 
Traverse 39.8 — 47.7 — 
Total $ 70.4 $ 30.6 $ 84.4 $ 36.7 
2020
Desert Sky Wind Farm and Trent Wind Farm (Generation & Marketing Segment) (Applies to AEP)
In August 2020, AEP exercised its call right which required the nonaffiliated member of Desert Sky Wind Farm LLC
and Trent Wind Farm LLC (collectively the LLCs) to sell its noncontrolling interest to AEP. The exercise price for the
call right was determined using a discounted cash flow model with agreed input assumptions as well as updates to
certain assumptions reasonably expected based on the actual results of the LLCs. As a result, the LLCs are wholly-
owned by AEP and management has concluded that the LLCs are no longer VIEs. AEP paid $57 million in cash,
derecognized $63 million of Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest within Mezzanine Equity and recorded an increase of
$6 million of Paid-In Capital on the balance sheets. See Note 17 - Variable Interest Entities and Equity Method
Investments for additional information.
Santa Rita East (Generation & Marketing Segment) (Applies to AEP)
In November 2020, AEP acquired an additional 10% interest in Santa Rita East for approximately $44 million resulting
in AEP having a total interest of 85%. The acquisition of the incremental ownership interest was accounted for as an
equity transaction in accordance with the accounting guidance for "Consolidation" and reduced Noncontrolling
Interests on the balance sheets by approximately $44 million. See Note 17 - Variable Interest Entities and Equity
Method Investments for additional information.
293
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE
2022
Disposition of KPCo and KTCo (Vertically Integrated Utilities and AEP Transmission Holdco Segments) (Applies to
AEP and AEPTCo)
In October 2021, AEP entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement (SPA) to sell KPCo and KTCo to Liberty Utilities Co.,
a subsidiary of Algonquin Power & Utilities Corp. (Liberty), for approximately a $2.85 billion enterprise value. In May
2022, the KPSC approved the transfer of KPCo to Liberty subject to certain conditions contingent upon the closing of
the sale. AEP has received clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (HSR) and the
Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States during 2022. Clearance under the HSR expired in January 2023.
AEP and Liberty refiled a joint application seeking HSR clearance in February 2023. The sale is also contingent upon
FERC approval under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act. The parties to the SPA have certain termination rights if
the closing of the sale does not occur by April 26, 2023.
Transfer of Ownership
FERC Proceedings
In December 2021, Liberty, KPCo and KTCo (the applicants) requested FERC approval of the sale under Section 203
of the Federal Power Act. In February 2022, several intervenors in the case filed protests related to whether the sale will
negatively impact the wholesale transmission rates of applicants. In April 2022, the FERC issued a deficiency letter
stating that the Section 203 application is deficient and that additional information is required to process it. In May
2022, Liberty, KPCo and KTCo supplemented the application. In December 2022, the FERC issued an order denying,
without prejudice, authorization of the proposed sale stating the applicants failed to demonstrate the proposed
transaction will not have an adverse effect on rates.
In January 2023, AEP, AEPTCo, and Liberty entered into an amendment to the SPA that specified the applicants will
submit a new filing for approval under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act. The new filing was submitted to the
FERC on February 14, 2023. The applicants requested expedited treatment of the new filing, including an accelerated
comment period. In response, the FERC granted a shortened 45 day comment period. The applicants believe the new
Section 203 application addresses the concerns raised in the FERC’s December 2022 order. The application contains
several additional commitments by Liberty to mitigate potential adverse impacts on FERC jurisdictional rates over the
next five years, including: a) maintaining the current return on equity; b) maintaining the current cost cap on equity; c)
financing future investments at the current credit rating; and d) capping certain operating and administrative costs. The
sale remains subject to FERC approval. The statute requires an order from the FERC within 180 days of the February
14, 2023 filing date in accordance with Section 203 of the Federal Power Act.
KPSC Proceedings
In May 2022, the KPSC approved the transfer of KPCo to Liberty subject to conditions contingent upon the closing of
the sale, including establishment of regulatory liabilities to subsidize retail customer transmission and distribution
expenses, a fuel adjustment clause bill credit, and a three-year Big Sandy decommissioning rider rate holiday during
which KPCo’s carrying charge is reduced by 50%.
Mitchell Plant Operations and Maintenance Agreement and Ownership Agreement
KPCo and WPCo each own a 50% undivided interest in the 1,560 MW coal-fired Mitchell Plant. As of December 31,
2022 and 2021, the net book value of KPCo’s share of the Mitchell Plant, before cost of removal including CWIP and
inventory, was $577 million and $586 million, respectively. The SPA includes a condition precedent to closing
requiring the issuance of regulatory orders approving new Mitchell Plant agreements.
294
The KPSC and WVPSC issued orders proposing materially different modifications to the Mitchell Plant agreements
filed by AEP such that the new agreements could not be executed by the parties. In lieu of new agreements, in July
2022, KPCo and WPCo confirmed with the KPSC and WVPSC, respectively, that they will continue operating under
the existing Mitchell Agreement, utilizing the Mitchell Agreement Operating Committee’s authority under that
agreement to issue appropriate resolutions so the parties can operate in accordance with each state commission’s
directives related to CCR and ELG investment. In September 2022, pursuant to resolutions under the existing Mitchell
Plant agreement, WPCo replaced KPCo as the Operator of Mitchell Plant.
Summary
As a result of the conditions imposed by the KPSC’s May 2022 order, in the second quarter of 2022, AEP recorded a
$69 million loss on the expected sale of the Kentucky Operations in accordance with accounting guidance for Fair
Value Measurement.
In September 2022, AEP, AEPTCo and Liberty entered into an amendment to the SPA which reduced the purchase price
to approximately $2.646 billion and Liberty agreed to waive, upon FERC approval of the sale, the SPA condition
precedent to closing requiring the issuance of regulatory orders approving new proposed Mitchell Plant agreements.
Further, as a result of the reduced purchase price from the September Amendment and the change to the anticipated
timing of the completion of the transaction, AEP recorded an additional $194 million pretax loss ($149 million net of
tax) on the expected sale of the Kentucky Operations in the third quarter of 2022 in accordance with the accounting
guidance for Fair Value Measurement.
As a result of the December 2022 FERC order and resulting delay in the anticipated timing of the closing of the
transaction, AEP recorded an additional $100 million pretax loss ($79 million net of tax) on the expected sale of the
Kentucky Operations in December 2022 in accordance with the accounting guidance for Fair Value Measurement. In
total, AEP recorded a $363 million pretax loss of ($297 million net of tax) on the expected sale of the Kentucky
Operations for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022.
Management believes it is probable that FERC authorization under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act will be
received and closing will occur after receipt of the order. Therefore, the assets and liabilities of KPCo and KTCo were
classified as Held for Sale in the December 31, 2022 balance sheets of AEP and AEPTCo. Upon closing, Liberty will
acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of KPCo and KTCo, excluding pension and other post-retirement benefit
plan assets and liabilities. AEP expects to provide customary transition services to Liberty for a period of time after
closing of the transaction. AEP expects cash proceeds, net of taxes and transaction fees, from the sale of approximately
$1.2 billion. AEP plans to use the proceeds from the sale to fund its continued investment in regulated businesses,
including transmission and regulated renewables projects. If additional reductions in the fair value of the Kentucky
Operations occur, it would reduce future net income and cash flows.
Because the depreciation of Kentucky assets will continue to be reflected in revenues through customer rates until the
expected closing of the transaction and will be reflected in the carryover basis of the rate-regulated assets once sold,
AEP and AEPTCo will continue to recognize depreciation on those assets through the close of the transaction.
Depreciation expense of $99 million and $4 million associated with KPCo and KTCo was recognized for the year
ended December 31, 2022.
The Income Before Income Tax Expense (Benefit) of KPCo and KTCo were not material to AEP and AEPTCo on their
respective statements of income for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022 and 2021.
The major classes of KPCo and KTCo’s assets and liabilities presented in Assets Held for Sale and Liabilities Held for
Sale on the balance sheets of AEP and AEPTCo are shown in the table below:
295
AEP AEPTCo
December 31,
2022December 31,
2021December 31,
2022December 31,
2021
(in millions)
ASSETS
Accounts Receivable and Accrued Unbilled
Revenues $ 97.7 $ 33.2 $ 1.8 $ 1.5 
Fuel, Materials and Supplies 48.2 30.6 — — 
Property, Plant and Equipment, Net 2,419.4 2,302.7 169.8 165.3 
Regulatory Assets 504.1 484.7 0.3 — 
Other Classes of Assets that are not Major 51.3 68.5 6.1 1.1 
Total Major Classes of Assets Held for Sale 3,120.7 2,919.7 178.0 167.9 
Loss on the Expected Sale of Kentucky Operations
(net of $66.1 million of Income Taxes) (297.2) — — — 
Assets Held for Sale $ 2,823.5 $ 2,919.7 $ 178.0 $ 167.9 
LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable $ 57.8 $ 53.4 $ 1.5 $ 1.1 
Long-term Debt Due Within One Year 490.0 200.0 — — 
Customer Deposits 38.8 32.4 — — 
Deferred Income Taxes 469.7 441.6 16.1 15.4 
Long-term Debt 688.4 903.1 — — 
Regulatory Liabilities and Deferred Investment Tax
Credits 116.0 148.1 8.2 7.6 
Other Classes of Liabilities that are not Major 95.0 102.3 2.8 3.5 
Liabilities Held for Sale $ 1,955.7 $ 1,880.9 $ 28.6 $ 27.6 
296
DISPOSITIONS
2022
Disposition of Cardinal Plant (Generation & Marketing Segment) (Applies to AEP)
In March 2022, AGR entered into an Asset Purchase agreement with a nonaffiliated electric cooperative to sell Cardinal
Plant, Unit 1, a competitive generation asset totaling 595 MWs. The FERC approved the sale in May 2022 and the sale
closed in the third quarter of 2022. The proceeds from the sale were not material. Concurrent with the closing of the
sale, AGR executed a PPA with the nonaffiliated electric cooperative for rights to Unit 1’s power and capacity through
2028. AGR also retained certain obligations related to environmental remediation.
Subsequent to the closing of the sale, AGR continues to recognize Cardinal Plant, Unit 1 on its balance sheet due to
continuing involvement through the PPA. As of December 31, 2022, the net book value of Cardinal Plant, Unit 1 was
not material.
Disposition of Mineral Rights (Generation & Marketing Segment) (Applies to AEP)
In June 2022, AEP closed on the sale of certain mineral rights to a nonaffiliated third-party and received $120 million
of proceeds. The sale resulted in a pretax gain of $116 million in the second quarter of 2022.
2021
Disposition of Racine (Generation & Marketing Segment) (Applies to AEP)
In February 2021, AEP signed an agreement to sell Racine to a nonaffiliated party. The sale of Racine closed in the
fourth quarter of 2021 resulting in an immaterial gain which is recorded in Other Operation on AEP’s statements of
income.
2020
Conesville Plant (Generation & Marketing Segment) (Applies to AEP)
In June 2020, AEP and a nonaffiliated joint-owner executed an Environmental Liability and Property Transfer and
Asset Purchase Agreement with a nonaffiliated third-party related to the merchant Conesville Plant site. The purchaser
took ownership of the assets and assumed responsibility for environmental liabilities, including ash pond closure,
asbestos abatement and decommissioning and demolition of the Conesville Plant site. In consideration of the transfer of
the acquired assets to the purchaser and the purchaser’s assumption of liabilities, AEP paid approximately $98 million
over three years, derecognized $106 million in ARO and recorded an immaterial gain on the transaction which is
recorded in Other Operation on the statements of income. AEP paid approximately $26 million at closing in June 2020
and made additional payments totaling $72 million in quarterly installments from October 2020 to June 2022.
Oklaunion Power Station (Transmission and Distribution Segment and Vertically Integrated Utilities Segment)
(Applies to AEP, AEP Texas and PSO)
In October 2020, AEP Texas, PSO and a nonaffiliated joint-owner executed an Environmental Liability and Property
Transfer and Asset Purchase Agreement with a nonaffiliated third-party related to the Oklaunion Power Station site.
The purchaser took ownership of the assets and assumed responsibility for environmental liabilities, including ash pond
closure, asbestos abatement and decommissioning and demolition of the Oklaunion Power Station site. The sale had an
immaterial impact on the financial statements in the fourth quarter of 2020.
297
IMPAIRMENTS
2022
Flat Ridge 2 Wind LLC (Generation & Marketing Segment) (Applies to AEP)
In 2019, AEP acquired a 50% ownership interest in five non-consolidated joint ventures, including Flat Ridge 2 Wind
LLC (Flat Ridge 2), and two tax equity partnerships. The five non-consolidated joint ventures are jointly owned and
operated by BP Wind Energy. Flat Ridge 2 sells electricity to three counterparties through long-term PPAs.
Regarding AEP’s investment in Flat Ridge 2, in June 2022, as a result of deteriorating financial performance, sale
negotiations and AEP’s ongoing evaluation and ultimate decision to exit the investment in the near term, AEP
determined a decline in the fair value of AEP’s investment in Flat Ridge 2 was other than temporary. In accordance
with the accounting guidance for “Investments - Equity Method and Joint Ventures”, in the second quarter of 2022 AEP
recorded a pretax other than temporary impairment charge of $186 million which is presented in Equity Earnings
(Losses) of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries on AEP’s Statement of Income. AEP’s determination of fair value utilized the
accounting guidance for Fair Value Measurement market approach to valuation and was based on negotiations to sell
the investment to a non-affiliate. In the third quarter of 2022, AEP recorded an additional $2 million pretax other than
temporary impairment charge which is presented in Equity Earnings (Losses) of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries on AEP’s
Statement of Income. In September 2022, AEP signed a Purchase and Sale Agreement with a nonaffiliate for AEP’s
interest in Flat Ridge 2. The transaction closed in the fourth quarter of 2022 and had an immaterial impact on the
financial statements at closing.
2021
2020 Texas Base Rate Case (Vertically Integrated Utilities Segment) (Applies to AEP and SWEPCo)
In January 2022, the PUCT issued a final order which included a return of investment only for the recovery of the Dolet
Hills Power Station. As a result of the final order, SWEPCo recorded a disallowance of $12 million associated with the
lack of return on the Dolet Hills Power Station. In February 2022, SWEPCo filed a motion for rehearing with the
PUCT challenging denial of a reasonable return or carrying costs on the Dolet Hills Power Station among other items.
In April 2022, the PUCT denied the motion for rehearing. In May 2022, SWEPCo filed a petition for review with the
Texas District Court seeking a judicial review of the several errors challenged in the PUCT’s final order. See “2020
Texas Base Rate Case” section of Note 4 for additional information.
298
8.  BENEFIT PLANS
The disclosures in this note apply to all Registrants except AEPTCo unless indicated otherwise.
For a discussion of investment strategy, investment limitations, target asset allocations and the classification of
investments within the fair value hierarchy, see “Fair Value Measurements of Assets and Liabilities” and “Investments
Held in Trust for Future Liabilities” sections of Note 1.
AEP sponsors a qualified pension plan and two unfunded non-qualified pension plans.  Substantially all AEP
employees are covered by the qualified plan or both the qualified and a non-qualified pension plan.  AEP also sponsors
OPEB plans to provide health and life insurance benefits for retired employees.
Due to the Registrant Subsidiaries’ participation in AEP’s benefit plans, the assumptions used by the actuary, with the
exception of the rate of compensation increase, and the accounting for the plans by each subsidiary are the same.  This
section details the assumptions that apply to all Registrants and the rate of compensation increase for each Registrant.
The Registrants recognize the funded status associated with defined benefit pension and OPEB plans on the balance
sheets.  Disclosures about the plans are required by the “Compensation – Retirement Benefits” accounting
guidance.  The Registrants recognize an asset for a plan’s overfunded status or a liability for a plan’s underfunded
status, and recognize, as a component of other comprehensive income, the changes in the funded status of the plan that
arise during the year that are not recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost.  The Registrants record a
regulatory asset instead of other comprehensive income for qualifying benefit costs of regulated operations that for
rate-making purposes are deferred for future recovery.  The cumulative funded status adjustment is equal to the
remaining unrecognized deferrals for unamortized actuarial losses or gains, prior service costs and transition
obligations, such that remaining deferred costs result in an AOCI equity reduction or regulatory asset and deferred
gains result in an AOCI equity addition or regulatory liability.
Actuarial Assumptions for Benefit Obligations
The weighted-average assumptions used in the measurement of the Registrants’ benefit obligations are shown in the
following tables:
Pension Plans OPEB
December 31,
Assumption 2022 2021 2022 2021
Discount Rate 5.50 % 2.90 % 5.50 % 2.90 %
Interest Crediting Rate 4.25 % 4.00 % NA NA
NA    Not applicable.
Pension Plans
December 31,
Assumption – Rate of Compensation Increase (a) 2022 2021
AEP 5.05 % 5.10 %
AEP Texas 5.15 % 5.10 %
APCo 4.90 % 4.85 %
I&M 5.00 % 5.00 %
OPCo 5.35 % 5.30 %
PSO 5.15 % 5.10 %
SWEPCo 5.00 % 4.95 %
(a)Rates are for base pay only.  In addition, an amount is added to reflect target incentive
compensation for exempt employees and overtime and incentive pay for nonexempt employees.
299
A duration-based method is used to determine the discount rate for the plans.  A hypothetical portfolio of high quality
corporate bonds is constructed with cash flows matching the benefit plan liability.  The composite yield on the
hypothetical bond portfolio is used as the discount rate for the plan.  The discount rate is the same for each Registrant.
For 2022, the rate of compensation increase assumed varies with the age of the employee, ranging from 3% per year to
11.5% per year, with the average increase shown in the table above.  The compensation increase rates reflect variations
in each Registrants’ population participating in the pension plan.
Actuarial Assumptions for Net Periodic Benefit Costs
The weighted-average assumptions used in the measurement of each Registrants’ benefit costs are shown in the
following tables:
Pension Plans OPEB
Year Ended December 31,
Assumption 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
Discount Rate 2.90 % 2.50 % 3.25 % 2.90 % 2.55 % 3.30 %
Interest Crediting Rate 4.00 % 4.00 % 4.00 % NA NA NA
Expected Return on Plan Assets 5.25 % 4.75 % 5.75 % 5.50 % 4.75 % 5.50 %
NA    Not applicable.
Pension Plans
Year Ended December 31,
Assumption – Rate of Compensation Increase (a) 2022 2021 2020
AEP 5.05 % 5.10 % 5.00 %
AEP Texas 5.15 % 5.10 % 5.05 %
APCo 4.90 % 4.85 % 4.85 %
I&M 5.00 % 5.00 % 5.00 %
OPCo 5.35 % 5.30 % 5.25 %
PSO 5.15 % 5.10 % 5.05 %
SWEPCo 5.00 % 4.95 % 4.90 %
(a)Rates are for base pay only.  In addition, an amount is added to reflect target incentive compensation
for exempt employees and overtime and incentive pay for nonexempt employees.
The expected return on plan assets was determined by evaluating historical returns, the current investment climate
(yield on fixed income securities and other recent investment market indicators), rate of inflation, third-party forecasts
and current prospects for economic growth.  The expected return on plan assets is the same for each Registrant.
The health care trend rate assumptions used for OPEB plans measurement purposes are shown below:
December 31,
Health Care Trend Rates 2022 2021
Initial 7.50 % 6.25 %
Ultimate 4.50 % 4.50 %
Year Ultimate Reached 2029 2029
300
Significant Concentrations of Risk within Plan Assets
In addition to establishing the target asset allocation of plan assets, the investment policy also places restrictions on
securities to limit significant concentrations within plan assets.  The investment policy establishes guidelines that
govern maximum market exposure, security restrictions, prohibited asset classes, prohibited types of transactions,
minimum credit quality, average portfolio credit quality, portfolio duration and concentration limits.  The guidelines
were established to mitigate the risk of loss due to significant concentrations in any investment.  Management monitors
the plans to control security diversification and ensure compliance with the investment policy.  As of December 31,
2022, the assets were invested in compliance with all investment limits.  See “Investments Held in Trust for Future
Liabilities” section of Note 1 for limit details.
Benefit Plan Obligations, Plan Assets, Funded Status and Amounts Recognized on the Balance Sheets
For the year ended December 31, 2022, the pension plans had an actuarial gain primarily due to an increase in the
discount rate and was partially offset by increases in the assumed lump sum conversion rate and cash balance account
interest crediting rate. For the year ended December 31, 2022, the OPEB plans had an actuarial gain primarily due to an
increase in the discount rate and updated per capita cost assumptions. The OPEB plans gains were partially offset by a
projected reduction in the Employer Group Waiver Program catastrophic reinsurance offset provided to AEP, resulting
from the Inflation Reduction Act as well as an increase in the health care cost trend assumption. For the year ended
December 31, 2021, the pension plans had an actuarial gain primarily due to an increase in the discount rate, partially
offset by less favorable demographic experience than expected, resulting from the updated census information as of
January 1, 2021. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the OPEB plans had an actuarial gain primarily due to an
increase in the discount rate and an update of the projected reimbursements from the Employer Group Waiver Program
under Medicare Part D. The following tables provide a reconciliation of the changes in the plans’ benefit obligations,
fair value of plan assets, funded status and the presentation on the balance sheets.  The benefit obligation for the defined
benefit pension and OPEB plans are the projected benefit obligation and the accumulated benefit obligation,
respectively.
AEP Pension Plans OPEB
2022 2021 2022 2021
Change in Benefit Obligation (in millions)
Benefit Obligation as of January 1, $ 5,187.0 $ 5,544.5 $ 1,041.3 $ 1,210.9 
Service Cost 123.1 129.2 7.4 9.5 
Interest Cost 148.2 137.2 29.2 30.5 
Actuarial Gain (983.4) (173.9) (109.8) (120.1)
Plan Amendments — — — (5.4)
Benefit Payments (402.2) (450.0) (140.1) (126.0)
Participant Contributions — — 44.1 41.3 
Medicare Subsidy — — 0.5 0.6 
Benefit Obligation as of December 31, $ 4,072.7 $ 5,187.0 $ 872.6 $ 1,041.3 
Change in Fair Value of Plan Assets
Fair Value of Plan Assets as of January 1, $ 5,352.9 $ 5,556.6 $ 2,044.3 $ 1,946.7 
Actual Gain (Loss) on Plan Assets (833.7) 239.2 (403.6) 176.5 
Company Contributions (a) 7.7 7.1 4.6 5.8 
Participant Contributions — — 44.1 41.3 
Benefit Payments (402.2) (450.0) (140.1) (126.0)
Fair Value of Plan Assets as of December 31, $ 4,124.7 $ 5,352.9 $ 1,549.3 $ 2,044.3 
Funded Status as of December 31, $ 52.0 $ 165.9 $ 676.7 $ 1,003.0 
(a)No contributions were made to the qualified pension plan for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021,
respectively. Contributions to the non-qualified pension plans were $8 million and $7 million for the years
ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
301
Pension Plans OPEB
December 31,
AEP 2022 2021 2022 2021
(in millions)
Deferred Charges and Other Noncurrent Assets –
Prepaid Benefit Costs $ 113.4 $ 244.3 $ 699.5 $ 1,040.8 
Other Current Liabilities – Accrued Short-term
Benefit Liability (6.3) (7.6) (2.5) (2.7)
Employee Benefits and Pension Obligations –
Accrued Long-term Benefit Liability (55.1) (70.8) (20.3) (35.1)
Funded Status $ 52.0 $ 165.9 $ 676.7 $ 1,003.0 
AEP Texas Pension Plans OPEB
2022 2021 2022 2021
Change in Benefit Obligation (in millions)
Benefit Obligation as of January 1, $ 419.8 $ 453.2 $ 80.5 $ 96.3 
Service Cost 11.1 11.8 0.5 0.7 
Interest Cost 12.1 11.2 2.2 2.4 
Actuarial Gain (67.8) (10.9) (7.1) (12.3)
Plan Amendments — — — (0.5)
Benefit Payments (41.1) (45.5) (10.9) (9.3)
Participant Contributions — — 3.4 3.2 
Benefit Obligation as of December 31, $ 334.1 $ 419.8 $ 68.6 $ 80.5 
Change in Fair Value of Plan Assets
Fair Value of Plan Assets as of January 1, $ 444.9 $ 474.0 $ 168.8 $ 162.3 
Actual Gain (Loss) on Plan Assets (69.2) 16.0 (33.0) 12.5 
Company Contributions 0.5 0.4 — 0.1 
Participant Contributions — — 3.4 3.2 
Benefit Payments (41.1) (45.5) (10.9) (9.3)
Fair Value of Plan Assets as of December 31, $ 335.1 $ 444.9 $ 128.3 $ 168.8 
Funded Status as of December 31, $ 1.0 $ 25.1 $ 59.7 $ 88.3 
Pension Plans OPEB
December 31,
AEP Texas 2022 2021 2022 2021
(in millions)
Deferred Charges and Other Noncurrent Assets –
Prepaid Benefit Costs $ 3.7 $ 28.7 $ 59.7 $ 88.3 
Other Current Liabilities – Accrued Short-term
Benefit Liability (0.4) (0.3) — — 
Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities –
Accrued Long-term Benefit Liability (2.3) (3.3) — — 
Funded Status $ 1.0 $ 25.1 $ 59.7 $ 88.3 
302
APCo Pension Plans OPEB
2022 2021 2022 2021
Change in Benefit Obligation (in millions)
Benefit Obligation as of January 1, $ 621.7 $ 670.8 $ 167.3 $ 198.2 
Service Cost 11.4 11.9 0.8 1.0 
Interest Cost 17.5 16.4 4.7 4.9 
Actuarial Gain (123.1) (28.5) (16.2) (21.4)
Plan Amendments — — — (0.9)
Benefit Payments (41.8) (48.9) (23.0) (21.3)
Participant Contributions — — 7.0 6.6 
Medicare Subsidy — — 0.1 0.2 
Benefit Obligation as of December 31, $ 485.7 $ 621.7 $ 140.7 $ 167.3 
Change in Fair Value of Plan Assets
Fair Value of Plan Assets as of January 1, $ 683.3 $ 701.3 $ 302.3 $ 293.0 
Actual Gain (Loss) on Plan Assets (109.8) 30.9 (59.3) 21.9 
Company Contributions — — 1.6 2.1 
Participant Contributions — — 7.0 6.6 
Benefit Payments (41.8) (48.9) (23.0) (21.3)
Fair Value of Plan Assets as of December 31, $ 531.7 $ 683.3 $ 228.6 $ 302.3 
Funded Status as of December 31, $ 46.0 $ 61.6 $ 87.9 $ 135.0 
Pension Plans OPEB
December 31,
APCo 2022 2021 2022 2021
(in millions)
Employee Benefits and Pension Assets – Prepaid
Benefit Costs $ 46.6 $ 62.4 $ 106.3 $ 158.1 
Other Current Liabilities – Accrued Short-term
Benefit Liability — — (1.6) (1.8)
Employee Benefits and Pension Obligations –
Accrued Long-term Benefit Liability (0.6) (0.8) (16.8) (21.3)
Funded Status $ 46.0 $ 61.6 $ 87.9 $ 135.0 
303
I&M Pension Plans OPEB
2022 2021 2022 2021
Change in Benefit Obligation (in millions)
Benefit Obligation as of January 1, $ 612.1 $ 653.3 $ 118.6 $ 141.4 
Service Cost 16.2 17.5 0.9 1.3 
Interest Cost 17.0 16.2 3.4 3.5 
Actuarial Gain (138.0) (29.5) (8.7) (16.8)
Plan Amendments — — — (0.7)
Benefit Payments (40.5) (45.4) (18.3) (15.3)
Participant Contributions — — 6.0 5.2 
Benefit Obligation as of December 31, $ 466.8 $ 612.1 $ 101.9 $ 118.6 
Change in Fair Value of Plan Assets
Fair Value of Plan Assets as of January 1, $ 681.5 $ 698.1 $ 248.7 $ 238.2 
Actual Gain (Loss) on Plan Assets (107.4) 28.8 (45.9) 20.6 
Company Contributions 0.1 — — — 
Participant Contributions — — 6.0 5.2 
Benefit Payments (40.5) (45.4) (18.3) (15.3)
Fair Value of Plan Assets as of December 31, $ 533.7 $ 681.5 $ 190.5 $ 248.7 
Funded Status as of December 31, $ 66.9 $ 69.4 $ 88.6 $ 130.1 
Pension Plans OPEB
December 31,
I&M 2022 2021 2022 2021
(in millions)
Deferred Charges and Other Noncurrent Assets –
Prepaid Benefit Costs $ 68.5 $ 71.4 $ 88.6 $ 130.1 
Other Current Liabilities – Accrued Short-term
Benefit Liability (0.1) (0.1) — — 
Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities –
Accrued Long-term Benefit Liability (1.5) (1.9) — — 
Funded Status $ 66.9 $ 69.4 $ 88.6 $ 130.1 
 
304
OPCo Pension Plans OPEB
2022 2021 2022 2021
Change in Benefit Obligation (in millions)
Benefit Obligation as of January 1, $ 470.7 $ 510.3 $ 104.9 $ 126.4 
Service Cost 11.2 11.4 0.6 0.8 
Interest Cost 13.3 12.5 3.0 3.0 
Actuarial Gain (97.9) (24.1) (8.9) (15.6)
Plan Amendments — — — (0.6)
Benefit Payments (33.7) (39.4) (15.5) (13.6)
Participant Contributions — — 4.8 4.5 
Benefit Obligation as of December 31, $ 363.6 $ 470.7 $ 88.9 $ 104.9 
Change in Fair Value of Plan Assets
Fair Value of Plan Assets as of January 1, $ 524.8 $ 543.1 $ 220.0 $ 213.0 
Actual Gain (Loss) on Plan Assets (84.8) 21.1 (43.1) 16.1 
Company Contributions 0.1 — — — 
Participant Contributions — — 4.8 4.5 
Benefit Payments (33.7) (39.4) (15.5) (13.6)
Fair Value of Plan Assets as of December 31, $ 406.4 $ 524.8 $ 166.2 $ 220.0 
Funded Status as of December 31, $ 42.8 $ 54.1 $ 77.3 $ 115.1 
Pension Plans OPEB
December 31,
OPCo 2022 2021 2022 2021
(in millions)
Deferred Charges and Other Noncurrent Assets –
Prepaid Benefit Costs $ 43.1 $ 54.8 $ 77.3 $ 115.1 
Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities –
Accrued Long-term Benefit Liability (0.3) (0.7) — — 
Funded Status $ 42.8 $ 54.1 $ 77.3 $ 115.1 
305
PSO Pension Plans OPEB
2022 2021 2022 2021
Change in Benefit Obligation (in millions)
Benefit Obligation as of January 1, $ 252.6 $ 279.9 $ 54.4 $ 64.0 
Service Cost 7.4 8.0 0.4 0.6 
Interest Cost 7.0 6.7 1.5 1.6 
Actuarial Gain (52.9) (17.2) (5.2) (6.8)
Plan Amendments — — — (0.3)
Benefit Payments (21.8) (24.8) (7.9) (7.0)
Participant Contributions — — 2.5 2.3 
Benefit Obligation as of December 31, $ 192.3 $ 252.6 $ 45.7 $ 54.4 
Change in Fair Value of Plan Assets
Fair Value of Plan Assets as of January 1, $ 286.2 $ 299.8 $ 114.0 $ 107.8 
Actual Gain (Loss) on Plan Assets (46.0) 11.1 (23.2) 10.9 
Company Contributions 0.1 0.1 — — 
Participant Contributions — — 2.5 2.3 
Benefit Payments (21.8) (24.8) (7.9) (7.0)
Fair Value of Plan Assets as of December 31, $ 218.5 $ 286.2 $ 85.4 $ 114.0 
Funded Status as of December 31, $ 26.2 $ 33.6 $ 39.7 $ 59.6 
Pension Plans OPEB
December 31,
PSO 2022 2021 2022 2021
(in millions)
Employee Benefits and Pension Assets – Prepaid
Benefit Costs $ 27.6 $ 35.5 $ 39.7 $ 59.6 
Other Current Liabilities – Accrued Short-term
Benefit Liability (0.1) (0.1) — — 
Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities –
Accrued Long-term Benefit Liability (1.3) (1.8) — — 
Funded Status $ 26.2 $ 33.6 $ 39.7 $ 59.6 
306
SWEPCo Pension Plans OPEB
2022 2021 2022 2021
Change in Benefit Obligation (in millions)
Benefit Obligation as of January 1, $ 317.7 $ 334.5 $ 65.2 $ 77.1 
Service Cost 10.6 11.2 0.6 0.8 
Interest Cost 9.1 8.5 1.8 1.9 
Actuarial Gain (57.9) (3.5) (6.6) (9.2)
Plan Amendments — — — (0.4)
Benefit Payments (28.8) (33.0) (8.8) (7.6)
Participant Contributions — — 2.9 2.6 
Benefit Obligation as of December 31, $ 250.7 $ 317.7 $ 55.1 $ 65.2 
Change in Fair Value of Plan Assets
Fair Value of Plan Assets as of January 1, $ 308.3 $ 326.9 $ 136.6 $ 129.9 
Actual Gain (Loss) on Plan Assets (48.3) 14.3 (27.7) 11.7 
Company Contributions 0.1 0.1 — — 
Participant Contributions — — 2.9 2.6 
Benefit Payments (28.8) (33.0) (8.8) (7.6)
Fair Value of Plan Assets as of December 31, $ 231.3 $ 308.3 $ 103.0 $ 136.6 
Funded (Underfunded) Status as of December 31,$ (19.4)$ (9.4) $ 47.9 $ 71.4 
Pension Plans OPEB
December 31,
SWEPCo 2022 2021 2022 2021
(in millions)
Deferred Charges and Other Noncurrent Assets –
Prepaid Benefit Costs $ — $ — $ 47.9 $ 71.4 
Other Current Liabilities – Accrued Short-term
Benefit Liability (0.1) (0.1) — — 
Employee Benefits and Pension Obligations –
Accrued Long-term Benefit Liability (19.3) (9.3) — — 
Funded (Underfunded) Status $ (19.4)$ (9.4) $ 47.9 $ 71.4 
307
Amounts Included in Regulatory Assets, Deferred Income Taxes and AOCI
The following tables show the components of the plans included in Regulatory Assets, Deferred Income Taxes and
AOCI and the items attributable to the change in these components:
AEP Pension Plans OPEB
December 31,
2022 2021 2022 2021
Components (in millions)
Net Actuarial (Gain) Loss $ 935.6 $ 894.7 $ 300.0 $ (103.6)
Prior Service Cost (Credit) 0.2 0.2 (90.5) (161.9)
Recorded as
Regulatory Assets $ 841.8 $ 878.0 $ 126.0 $ (195.1)
Deferred Income Taxes 19.9 3.6 17.5 (14.7)
Net of Tax AOCI 74.1 13.3 66.0 (55.7)
AEP Pension Plans OPEB
2022 2021 2022 2021
Components (in millions)
Actuarial (Gain) Loss During the Year $ 103.9 $ (183.4)$ 403.6 $ (205.5)
Amortization of Actuarial Loss (63.0) (101.5) — — 
Prior Service Credit — — — (5.5)
Amortization of Prior Service Credit — — 71.4 70.9 
Change for the Year Ended December 31, $ 40.9 $ (284.9)$ 475.0 $ (140.1)
AEP Texas Pension Plans OPEB
December 31,
2022 2021 2022 2021
Components (in millions)
Net Actuarial (Gain) Loss $ 161.9 $ 144.7 $ 29.7 $ (5.2)
Prior Service Credit — — (7.6) (13.7)
Recorded as
Regulatory Assets $ 151.2 $ 136.7 $ 22.0 $ (17.7)
Deferred Income Taxes 2.4 1.8 0.1 (0.2)
Net of Tax AOCI 8.3 6.2 — (1.0)
AEP Texas Pension Plans OPEB
2022 2021 2022 2021
Components (in millions)
Actuarial (Gain) Loss During the Year $ 22.4 $ (7.5)$ 34.9 $ (17.5)
Amortization of Actuarial Loss (5.2) (8.3) — — 
Prior Service Credit — — — (0.4)
Amortization of Prior Service Credit — — 6.1 6.0 
Change for the Year Ended December 31, $ 17.2 $ (15.8)$ 41.0 $ (11.9)
308
APCo Pension Plans OPEB
December 31,
2022 2021 2022 2021
Components (in millions)
Net Actuarial (Gain) Loss $ 95.6 $ 83.9 $ 40.5 $ (18.9)
Prior Service Credit — — (13.4) (23.8)
Recorded as
Regulatory Assets $ 93.6 $ 82.5 $ 14.7 $ (19.8)
Deferred Income Taxes 0.4 0.3 2.5 (4.9)
Net of Tax AOCI 1.6 1.1 9.9 (18.0)
APCo Pension Plans OPEB
2022 2021 2022 2021
Components (in millions)
Actuarial (Gain) Loss During the Year $ 19.1 $ (30.4)$ 59.4 $ (30.0)
Amortization of Actuarial Loss (7.4) (12.0) — — 
Prior Service Credit — — — (0.9)
Amortization of Prior Service Credit — — 10.4 10.3 
Change for the Year Ended December 31, $ 11.7 $ (42.4)$ 69.8 $ (20.6)
I&M Pension Plans OPEB
December 31,
2022 2021 2022 2021
Components (in millions)
Net Actuarial (Gain) Loss $ (6.9)$ (1.6)$ 40.2 $ (10.7)
Prior Service Credit — — (12.4) (22.1)
Recorded as
Regulatory Assets/Liabilities (a) $ 4.8 $ 3.1 $ 22.1 $ (30.7)
Deferred Income Taxes (2.4) (1.0) 1.2 (0.4)
Net of Tax AOCI (9.3) (3.7) 4.5 (1.7)
(a)Recorded as a Regulatory Asset as of December 31, 2022 and recorded as a Regulatory Liability as of December 31, 2021.
I&M Pension Plans OPEB
2022 2021 2022 2021
Components (in millions)
Actuarial (Gain) Loss During the Year $ 1.8 $ (29.4)$ 50.9 $ (26.3)
Amortization of Actuarial Loss (7.1) (11.7) — — 
Prior Service Credit — — — (0.7)
Amortization of Prior Service Credit — — 9.7 9.6 
Change for the Year Ended December 31, $ (5.3)$ (41.1)$ 60.6 $ (17.4)
309
OPCo Pension Plans OPEB
December 31,
2022 2021 2022 2021
Components (in millions)
Net Actuarial (Gain) Loss $ 124.3 $ 118.1 $ 27.6 $ (18.5)
Prior Service Credit — — (9.2) (16.3)
Recorded as
Regulatory Assets $ 124.3 $ 118.1 $ 18.4 $ (34.8)
OPCo Pension Plans OPEB
2022 2021 2022 2021
Components (in millions)
Actuarial (Gain) Loss During the Year $ 11.7 $ (22.8)$ 46.1 $ (22.1)
Amortization of Actuarial Loss (5.5) (9.1) — — 
Prior Service Credit — — — (0.6)
Amortization of Prior Service Credit — — 7.1 7.2 
Change for the Year Ended December 31, $ 6.2 $ (31.9)$ 53.2 $ (15.5)
PSO Pension Plans OPEB
December 31,
2022 2021 2022 2021
Components (in millions)
Net Actuarial (Gain) Loss $ 38.8 $ 35.0 $ 22.0 $ (2.1)
Prior Service Credit — — (5.6) (10.0)
Recorded as
Regulatory Assets $ 38.8 $ 35.0 $ 16.4 $ (12.1)
PSO Pension Plans OPEB
2022 2021 2022 2021
Components (in millions)
Actuarial (Gain) Loss During the Year $ 6.7 $ (16.0)$ 24.1 $ (12.6)
Amortization of Actuarial Loss (2.9) (4.9) — — 
Prior Service Credit — — — (0.3)
Amortization of Prior Service Credit — — 4.4 4.4 
Change for the Year Ended December 31, $ 3.8 $ (20.9)$ 28.5 $ (8.5)
310
SWEPCo Pension Plans OPEB
December 31,
2022 2021 2022 2021
Components (in millions)
Net Actuarial (Gain) Loss $ 77.6 $ 76.4 $ 25.0 $ (3.5)
Prior Service Credit — — (7.0) (12.3)
Recorded as
Regulatory Assets $ 77.6 $ 76.4 $ 11.2 $ (8.9)
Deferred Income Taxes — — 1.5 (1.4)
Net of Tax AOCI — — 5.3 (5.5)
SWEPCo Pension Plans OPEB
2022 2021 2022 2021
Components (in millions)
Actuarial (Gain) Loss During the Year $ 5.0 $ (4.3)$ 28.5 $ (15.0)
Amortization of Actuarial Loss (3.8) (6.2) — — 
Prior Service Credit — — — (0.4)
Amortization of Prior Service Credit — — 5.3 5.3 
Change for the Year Ended December 31, $ 1.2 $ (10.5)$ 33.8 $ (10.1)
Determination of Pension Expense
The determination of pension expense or income is based on a market-related valuation of assets which reduces year-
to-year volatility.  This market-related valuation recognizes investment gains or losses over a five-year period from the
year in which they occur.  Investment gains or losses for this purpose are the difference between the expected return
calculated using the market-related value of assets and the actual return.
Pension and OPEB Assets
The fair value tables within Pension and OPEB Assets present the classification of assets for AEP within the fair value
hierarchy. All Level 1, 2, 3 and Other amounts can be allocated to the Registrant Subsidiaries using the percentages in
the table below:
Pension Plan OPEB
December 31,
Company 2022 2021 2022 2021
AEP Texas 8.1 % 8.3 % 8.3 % 8.3 %
APCo 12.9 % 12.8 % 14.8 % 14.8 %
I&M 12.9 % 12.7 % 12.3 % 12.2 %
OPCo 9.9 % 9.8 % 10.7 % 10.8 %
PSO 5.3 % 5.3 % 5.5 % 5.6 %
SWEPCo 5.6 % 5.8 % 6.6 % 6.7 %
311
The following table presents the classification of pension plan assets for AEP within the fair value hierarchy as of
December 31, 2022:
Asset Class Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Other TotalYear End
Allocation
(in millions)
Equities (a):
Domestic $ 347.6 $ — $ — $ — $ 347.6 8.4 %
International 398.4 — — — 398.4 9.7 %
Common Collective Trusts (b) — — — 379.9 379.9 9.2 %
Subtotal – Equities 746.0 — — 379.9 1,125.9 27.3 %
Fixed Income (a):
United States Government and
Agency Securities (0.6) 1,071.4 — — 1,070.8 26.0 %
Corporate Debt — 891.7 — — 891.7 21.6 %
Foreign Debt — 140.2 — — 140.2 3.4 %
State and Local Government — 37.0 — — 37.0 0.9 %
Other – Asset Backed — 0.8 — — 0.8 — %
Subtotal – Fixed Income (0.6) 2,141.1 — — 2,140.5 51.9 %
Infrastructure (b) — — — 109.2 109.2 2.6 %
Real Estate (b) — — — 276.9 276.9 6.7 %
Alternative Investments (b) — — — 319.7 319.7 7.8 %
Cash and Cash Equivalents (b) — 64.9 — 58.3 123.2 3.0 %
Other – Pending Transactions and
Accrued Income (c) — — — 29.3 29.3 0.7 %
Total $ 745.4 $2,206.0 $ — $1,173.3 $4,124.7 100.0 %
(a)Includes investment securities loaned to borrowers under the securities lending program. See the “Investments
Held in Trust for Future Liabilities” section of Note 1 for additional information.
(b)Amounts in “Other” column represent investments for which fair value is measured using net asset value per-
share.
(c)Amounts in “Other” column primarily represent accrued interest, dividend receivables and transactions pending
settlement.
312
The following table presents the classification of OPEB plan assets for AEP within the fair value hierarchy as of
December 31, 2022:
Asset Class Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Other TotalYear End
Allocation
(in millions)
Equities:
Domestic $ 414.1 $ — $ — $ — $ 414.1 26.7 %
International 265.0 — — — 265.0 17.1 %
Common Collective Trusts (a) — — — 169.1 169.1 10.9 %
Subtotal – Equities 679.1 — — 169.1 848.2 54.7 %
Fixed Income:
Common Collective Trust – Debt
(a) — — — 120.3 120.3 7.8 %
United States Government and
Agency Securities 0.1 155.8 — — 155.9 10.1 %
Corporate Debt — 141.5 — — 141.5 9.1 %
Foreign Debt — 21.0 — — 21.0 1.4 %
State and Local Government 62.9 7.8 — — 70.7 4.6 %
Subtotal – Fixed Income 63.0 326.1 — 120.3 509.4 33.0 %
Trust Owned Life Insurance:
International Equities — 46.7 — — 46.7 3.0 %
United States Bonds — 110.3 — — 110.3 7.1 %
Subtotal – Trust Owned Life
Insurance — 157.0 — — 157.0 10.1 %
Cash and Cash Equivalents (a) 23.2 — — 6.7 29.9 1.9 %
Other – Pending Transactions and
Accrued Income (b) — — — 4.8 4.8 0.3 %
Total $ 765.3 $ 483.1 $ — $ 300.9 $1,549.3 100.0 %
 
(a)Amounts in “Other” column represent investments for which fair value is measured using net asset value per-
share.
(b)Amounts in “Other” column primarily represent accrued interest, dividend receivables and transactions pending
settlement.
313
The following table presents the classification of pension plan assets for AEP within the fair value hierarchy as of
December 31, 2021:
Asset Class Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Other TotalYear End
Allocation
(in millions)
Equities (a):
Domestic $ 388.9 $ — $ — $ — $ 388.9 7.2 %
International 465.7 — — — 465.7 8.7 %
Common Collective Trusts (b) — — — 463.9 463.9 8.7 %
Subtotal – Equities 854.6 — — 463.9 1,318.5 24.6 %
Fixed Income (a):
United States Government and
Agency Securities 0.1 1,557.6 — — 1,557.7 29.1 %
Corporate Debt — 1,295.9 — — 1,295.9 24.2 %
Foreign Debt — 259.4 — — 259.4 4.8 %
State and Local Government — 57.1 — — 57.1 1.1 %
Other – Asset Backed — 1.3 — — 1.3 — %
Subtotal – Fixed Income 0.1 3,171.3 — — 3,171.4 59.2 %
Infrastructure (b) — — — 92.1 92.1 1.7 %
Real Estate (b) — — — 232.6 232.6 4.4 %
Alternative Investments (b) — — — 448.8 448.8 8.4 %
Cash and Cash Equivalents (b) — 64.3 — 53.4 117.7 2.2 %
Other – Pending Transactions and
Accrued Income (c) — — — (28.2) (28.2) (0.5)%
Total $ 854.7 $3,235.6 $ — $1,262.6 $5,352.9 100.0 %
(a)Includes investment securities loaned to borrowers under the securities lending program. See the “Investments
Held in Trust for Future Liabilities” section of Note 1 for additional information.
(b)Amounts in “Other” column represent investments for which fair value is measured using net asset value per-
share.
(c)Amounts in “Other” column primarily represent accrued interest, dividend receivables and transactions pending
settlement.
314
The following table presents the classification of OPEB plan assets for AEP within the fair value hierarchy as of
December 31, 2021:
Asset Class Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Other TotalYear End
Allocation
(in millions)
Equities:
Domestic $ 474.0 $ — $ — $ — $ 474.0 23.2 %
International 296.3 — — — 296.3 14.5 %
Common Collective Trusts (a) — — — 265.0 265.0 13.0 %
Subtotal – Equities 770.3 — — 265.0 1,035.3 50.7 %
Fixed Income:
Common Collective Trust – Debt
(a) — — — 167.7 167.7 8.2 %
United States Government and
Agency Securities — 222.4 — — 222.4 10.9 %
Corporate Debt — 233.2 — — 233.2 11.4 %
Foreign Debt — 39.8 — — 39.8 2.0 %
State and Local Government 91.9 13.6 — — 105.5 5.1 %
Subtotal – Fixed Income 91.9 509.0 — 167.7 768.6 37.6 %
Trust Owned Life Insurance:
International Equities — 23.4 — — 23.4 1.1 %
United States Bonds — 171.3 — — 171.3 8.4 %
Subtotal – Trust Owned Life Insurance — 194.7 — — 194.7 9.5 %
Cash and Cash Equivalents (a) 33.0 — — 6.7 39.7 1.9 %
Other – Pending Transactions and
Accrued Income (b) — — — 6.0 6.0 0.3 %
Total $ 895.2 $ 703.7 $ — $ 445.4 $2,044.3 100.0 %
(a)Amounts in “Other” column represent investments for which fair value is measured using net asset value per-
share.
(b)Amounts in “Other” column primarily represent accrued interest, dividend receivables and transactions pending
settlement.
Accumulated Benefit Obligation
The accumulated benefit obligation for the pension plans is as follows:
Accumulated Benefit Obligation AEP AEP  Texas APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Qualified Pension Plan $ 3,827.4  $ 315.4  $ 470.1  $ 443.8  $ 344.1  $ 179.1  $ 234.0  
Nonqualified Pension Plans 55.6 2.5 0.3 1.2 0.1 1.2 1.1 
Total as of December  31, 2022 $ 3,883.0  $ 317.9  $ 470.4  $ 445.0  $ 344.2  $ 180.3  $ 235.1  
Accumulated Benefit Obligation AEP AEP  Texas APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Qualified Pension Plan $ 4,822.5  $ 391.4  $ 597.0  $ 575.2  $ 440.0  $ 232.1  $ 291.4  
Nonqualified Pension Plans 69.7 3.3 0.4 1.2 0.3 1.5 1.3 
Total as of December  31, 2021 $ 4,892.2  $ 394.7  $ 597.4  $ 576.4  $ 440.3  $ 233.6  $ 292.7  
315
Obligations in Excess of Fair Values
The tables below show the underfunded pension plans that had obligations in excess of plan assets.
Projected Benefit Obligation
AEP AEP  Texas APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Projected Benefit Obligation $ 61.5 $ 2.7 $ 0.6 $ 1.6 $ 0.3 $ 1.5 $ 250.7  
Fair Value of Plan Assets — — — — — — 231.3  
Underfunded Pr ojected Benefit
Obligation as of December  31, 2022 $ (61.5)$ (2.7)$ (0.6)$ (1.6)$ (0.3)$ (1.5)$ (19.4)
AEP AEP  Texas APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Projected Benefit Obligation $ 78.4 $ 3.6 $ 0.8 $ 1.9 $ 0.7 $ 1.9 $ 317.7  
Fair Value of Plan Assets — — — — — — 308.3  
Underfunded Pr ojected Benefit
Obligation as of December  31, 2021 $ (78.4)$ (3.6)$ (0.8)$ (1.9)$ (0.7)$ (1.9)$ (9.4)
Accumulated Benefit Obligation
AEP AEP  Texas APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Accumulated Benefit Obligation $ 55.6 $ 2.5 $ 0.3 $ 1.2 $ 0.1 $ 1.2 $ 235.1  
Fair Value of Plan Assets — — — — — — 231.3  
Underfunded Accumulated Benefit
Obligation as of December  31, 2022 $ (55.6)$ (2.5)$ (0.3)$ (1.2)$ (0.1)$ (1.2)$ (3.8)
AEP AEP  Texas APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Accumulated Benefit Obligation $ 69.7 $ 3.3 $ 0.4 $ 1.2 $ 0.3 $ 1.5 $ 1.3 
Fair Value of Plan Assets — — — — — — — 
Underfunded Accumulated Benefit
Obligation as of December  31, 2021 $ (69.7)$ (3.3)$ (0.4)$ (1.2)$ (0.3)$ (1.5)$ (1.3)
Estimated Future Benefit Payments and Contributions
The estimated pension benefit payments and contributions to the trust are at least the minimum amount required by the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act plus payment of unfunded non-qualified benefits.  For the qualified pension
plan, additional discretionary contributions may also be made to maintain the funded status of the plan.   For OPEB
plans, expected payments include the payment of unfunded benefits.  The following table provides the estimated
contributions and payments by Registrant for 2023:
Company Pension Plans OPEB
(in millions)
AEP $ 6.3 $ 3.1 
AEP Texas 0.4 0.1 
APCo — 1.6 
I&M 0.1 — 
PSO 0.1 — 
SWEPCo 0.1 — 
316
The tables below reflect the total benefits expected to be paid from the plan or from the Registrants’ assets.  The
payments include the participants’ contributions to the plan for their share of the cost.  Future benefit payments are
dependent on the number of employees retiring, whether the retiring employees elect to receive pension benefits as
annuities or as lump sum distributions, future integration of the benefit plans with changes to Medicare and other
legislation, future levels of interest rates and variances in actuarial results.  The estimated payments for the pension
benefits and OPEB are as follows:
Pension Plans AEP AEP  Texas APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
2023 $ 369.0  $ 35.4 $ 43.7 $ 38.1 $ 32.3 $ 19.2 $ 24.2 
2024 373.6  36.3 43.6 39.8 31.9 18.9 25.1 
2025 368.8  35.2 42.5 40.7 32.4 19.0 25.3 
2026 369.6  35.0 43.0 40.4 32.0 19.2 25.5 
2027 364.3  32.6 41.8 41.0 31.6 18.4 25.4 
Years 2028 to 2032, in Total 1,702.3  138.9  202.1  196.4  146.0  81.1 107.9  
 
OPEB Benefit Payments AEP AEP  Texas APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
2023 $ 116.0 $ 9.1 $ 19.0 $ 14.9 $ 12.6 $ 6.7 $ 7.5 
2024 117.6 9.5 19.3 15.0 12.6 6.9 7.8 
2025 126.9  10.4 20.5 16.1 13.5 7.4 8.5 
2026 127.4  10.6 20.4 16.3 13.4 7.3 8.6 
2027 126.8  10.6 20.3 16.1 13.3 7.1 8.5 
Years 2028 to 2032, in Total 604.0  48.5 95.8 75.1 62.3 32.2 41.2 
OPEB Medicar e
Subsidy Receipts AEP AEP  Texas APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
2023 $ 0.2 $ — $ 0.1 $ — $ — $ — $ — 
2024 0.3 — 0.1 — — — — 
2025 0.3 — 0.1 — — — — 
2026 0.3 — 0.1 — — — — 
2027 0.3 — 0.1 — — — — 
Years 2028 to 2032, in Total 1.6 — 0.5 — — — — 
Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost
The following tables provide the components of net periodic benefit cost (credit) by Registrant for the plans:
AEP Pension Plans OPEB
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Service Cost $ 123.1 $ 129.2 $ 111.9 $ 7.4 $ 9.5 $ 10.0 
Interest Cost 148.2 137.2 167.9 29.2 30.5 39.8 
Expected Return on Plan Assets (253.4) (229.7) (264.9) (110.0) (91.1) (95.6)
Amortization of Prior Service Credit — — — (71.4) (70.9) (69.8)
Amortization of Net Actuarial Loss 63.0 101.5 93.7 — — 5.9 
Settlements — — — — — — 
Net Periodic Benefit Cost (Credit) 80.9 138.2 108.6 (144.8) (122.0) (109.7)
Capitalized Portion (53.8) (55.7) (47.0) (3.2) (4.1) (4.2)
Net Periodic Benefit Cost (Credit)
Recognized in Expense $ 27.1 $ 82.5 $ 61.6 $(148.0)$(126.1)$(113.9)
317
AEP Texas Pension Plans OPEB
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Service Cost $ 11.1 $ 11.8 $ 10.0 $ 0.5 $ 0.7 $ 0.8 
Interest Cost 12.1 11.2 13.9 2.2 2.4 3.2 
Expected Return on Plan Assets (21.0) (19.5) (22.7) (9.1) (7.5) (8.0)
Amortization of Prior Service Credit — — — (6.1) (6.0) (5.9)
Amortization of Net Actuarial Loss 5.2 8.3 7.8 — — 0.5 
Net Periodic Benefit Cost (Credit) 7.4 11.8 9.0 (12.5) (10.4) (9.4)
Capitalized Portion (6.2) (6.6) (5.5) (0.3) (0.4) (0.4)
Net Periodic Benefit Cost (Credit)
Recognized in Expense $ 1.2 $ 5.2 $ 3.5 $ (12.8)$ (10.8)$ (9.8)
APCo Pension Plans OPEB
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Service Cost $ 11.4 $ 11.9 $ 10.5 $ 0.8 $ 1.0 $ 1.0 
Interest Cost 17.5 16.4 20.3 4.7 4.9 6.6 
Expected Return on Plan Assets (32.3) (29.1) (33.6) (16.3) (13.5) (14.4)
Amortization of Prior Service Credit — — — (10.4) (10.3) (10.2)
Amortization of Net Actuarial Loss 7.4 12.0 11.2 — — 0.9 
Net Periodic Benefit Cost (Credit) 4.0 11.2 8.4 (21.2) (17.9) (16.1)
Capitalized Portion (5.0) (5.2) (4.5) (0.4) (0.4) (0.4)
Net Periodic Benefit Cost (Credit)
Recognized in Expense $ (1.0)$ 6.0 $ 3.9 $ (21.6)$ (18.3)$ (16.5)
I&M Pension Plans OPEB
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Service Cost $ 16.2 $ 17.5 $ 15.4 $ 0.9 $ 1.3 $ 1.4 
Interest Cost 17.0 16.2 19.7 3.4 3.5 4.7 
Expected Return on Plan Assets (32.4) (28.9) (33.3) (13.7) (11.1) (11.7)
Amortization of Prior Service Credit — — — (9.7) (9.6) (9.5)
Amortization of Net Actuarial Loss 7.1 11.7 10.8 — — 0.7 
Net Periodic Benefit Cost (Credit) 7.9 16.5 12.6 (19.1) (15.9) (14.4)
Capitalized Portion (4.6) (4.9) (4.3) (0.3) (0.4) (0.4)
Net Periodic Benefit Cost (Credit)
Recognized in Expense $ 3.3 $ 11.6 $ 8.3 $ (19.4)$ (16.3)$ (14.8)
318
OPCo Pension Plans OPEB
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Service Cost $ 11.2 $ 11.4 $ 9.7 $ 0.6 $ 0.8 $ 0.9 
Interest Cost 13.3 12.5 15.4 3.0 3.0 4.2 
Expected Return on Plan Assets (24.8) (22.3) (26.3) (12.0) (9.7) (10.5)
Amortization of Prior Service Credit — — — (7.1) (7.2) (7.0)
Amortization of Net Actuarial Loss 5.5 9.1 8.5 — — 0.7 
Net Periodic Benefit Cost (Credit) 5.2 10.7 7.3 (15.5) (13.1) (11.7)
Capitalized Portion (6.1) (6.2) (5.0) (0.3) (0.4) (0.5)
Net Periodic Benefit Cost (Credit)
Recognized in Expense $ (0.9)$ 4.5 $ 2.3 $ (15.8)$ (13.5)$ (12.2)
PSO Pension Plans OPEB
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Service Cost $ 7.4 $ 8.0 $ 7.3 $ 0.4 $ 0.6 $ 0.7 
Interest Cost 7.0 6.7 8.5 1.5 1.6 2.1 
Expected Return on Plan Assets (13.4) (12.3) (14.5) (6.1) (5.0) (5.2)
Amortization of Prior Service Credit — — — (4.4) (4.4) (4.4)
Amortization of Net Actuarial Loss 2.9 4.9 4.7 — — 0.3 
Net Periodic Benefit Cost (Credit) 3.9 7.3 6.0 (8.6) (7.2) (6.5)
Capitalized Portion (3.2) (3.4) (2.8) (0.2) (0.3) (0.3)
Net Periodic Benefit Cost (Credit)
Recognized in Expense $ 0.7 $ 3.9 $ 3.2 $ (8.8)$ (7.5)$ (6.8)
SWEPCo Pension Plans OPEB
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Service Cost $ 10.6 $ 11.2 $ 9.9 $ 0.6 $ 0.8 $ 0.8 
Interest Cost 9.1 8.5 10.2 1.8 1.9 2.5 
Expected Return on Plan Assets (14.6) (13.5) (15.7) (7.3) (6.1) (6.3)
Amortization of Prior Service Credit — — — (5.3) (5.3) (5.2)
Amortization of Net Actuarial Loss 3.8 6.2 5.7 — — 0.4 
Net Periodic Benefit Cost (Credit) 8.9 12.4 10.1 (10.2) (8.7) (7.8)
Capitalized Portion (4.0) (4.1) (3.4) (0.2) (0.3) (0.3)
Net Periodic Benefit Cost (Credit)
Recognized in Expense $ 4.9 $ 8.3 $ 6.7 $ (10.4)$ (9.0)$ (8.1)
American Electric Power System Retirement Savings Plan
AEP sponsors the American Electric Power System Retirement Savings Plan, a defined contribution retirement savings
plan for substantially all employees who are not covered by a retirement savings plan of the UMWA.  This qualified
plan offers participants an opportunity to contribute a portion of their pay, includes features under Section 401(k) of the
Internal Revenue Code and provides for company matching contributions.  The matching contributions to the plan are
100% of the first 1% of eligible employee contributions and 70% of the next 5% of contributions.
319
The following table provides the cost for matching contributions to the retirement savings plans by Registrant:
Year Ended December 31,
Company 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
AEP $ 81.9 $ 79.9 $ 81.8 
AEP Texas 6.5 6.4 6.4 
APCo 7.8 7.6 7.7 
I&M 11.1 10.9 11.3 
OPCo 7.7 7.2 7.3 
PSO 4.7 4.6 4.9 
SWEPCo 6.4 6.4 6.7 
UMWA Benefits
Health and Welfare Benefits (Applies to AEP and APCo)
AEP provides health and welfare benefits negotiated with the UMWA for certain unionized employees, retirees and
their survivors who meet eligibility requirements. APCo also provides the same UMWA health and welfare benefits for
certain unionized mining retirees and their survivors who meet eligibility requirements.  AEP and APCo administer the
health and welfare benefits and pay them from their general assets.
Multiemployer Pension Benefits (Applies to AEP)
UMWA pension benefits are provided through the United Mine Workers of America 1974 Pension Plan (Employer
Identification Number: 52-1050282, Plan Number 002), a multiemployer plan. The UMWA pension benefits are
administered by a board of trustees appointed in equal numbers by the UMWA and the Bituminous Coal Operators’
Association (BCOA), an industry bargaining association. AEP makes contributions to the United Mine Workers of
America 1974 Pension Plan based on provisions in its labor agreement and the plan documents. The UMWA pension
plan is different from single-employer plans as an employer’s contributions may be used to provide benefits to
employees of other participating employers.  A withdrawing employer may be subject to a withdrawal liability, which is
calculated based upon that employer’s share of the plan’s unfunded benefit obligations.  If an employer fails to make
required contributions or if its payments in connection with its withdrawal liability fall short of satisfying its share of
the plan’s unfunded benefit obligations, the remaining employers may be allocated a greater share of the remaining
unfunded plan obligations. Under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA), the UMWA pension plan is in Critical
Status for the plan year beginning July 1, 2022 and was in Critical Status for the plan year beginning July 1, 2021.  As
required under the PPA, the Plan adopted a Rehabilitation Plan in 2015. The Rehabilitation Plan has been updated
annually, most recently in April 2022.
The amount contributed in 2022 was $329 thousand and represented 12.5% of the total contributions in the plan's latest
annual report based on the plan year ended June 30, 2021. The amounts contributed in 2021 and 2020 were immaterial
and represented less than 5% of the total contributions in the plan years ended June 30, 2020 and June 30, 2019.  The
contributions in 2022, 2021 and 2020 did not include surcharges.
Under the terms of the UMWA pension plan, contributions will be required to continue beyond the March 31, 2023
expiration of the current collective bargaining agreement between the Cook Coal Terminal (CCT) facility and the
UMWA, whether or not the term of that agreement is extended or a subsequent agreement is entered, so long as both
the UMWA pension plan remains in effect and an AEP affiliate continues to operate the facility covered by the current
collective bargaining agreement. The contribution rate applicable would be determined in accordance with the terms of
the UMWA pension plan by reference to the National Bituminous Coal Wage Agreement, subject to periodic revisions,
between the UMWA and the BCOA. If the UMWA pension plan would terminate or an AEP affiliate would cease
operation of the facility without arranging for a successor operator to assume its liability, the withdrawal liability
obligation would be triggered.
320
AEP records a UMWA pension withdrawal liability on the balance sheet that is re-measured annually and is the
estimated value of the company’s anticipated contributions toward its proportionate share of the plan’s unfunded vested
liabilities. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the liability balance was $12 million and $22 million, respectively. AEP
recovers the estimated value of its UMWA pension withdrawal liability through fuel clauses in certain regulated
jurisdictions. AEP records a regulatory asset on the balance sheets when the UMWA pension withdrawal liability
exceeds the cumulative billings collected and a regulatory liability on the balance sheets when the cumulative billings
collected exceed the withdrawal liability. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, AEP recorded a regulatory asset on the
balance sheets for $0 and $1 million, respectively. If any portion of the UMWA pension withdrawal liability is not
recoverable, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.
321
9.  BUSINESS SEGMENTS
The disclosures in this note apply to all Registrants unless indicated otherwise.
AEP’s Reportable Segments
AEP’s primary business is the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity.  Within its Vertically Integrated
Utilities segment, AEP centrally dispatches generation assets and manages its overall utility operations on an integrated
basis because of the substantial impact of cost-based rates and regulatory oversight.  Intersegment sales and transfers
are generally based on underlying contractual arrangements and agreements.
AEP’s reportable segments and their related business activities are outlined below:
Vertically Integrated Utilities
•Generation, transmission and distribution of electricity for sale to retail and wholesale customers through assets
owned and operated by AEGCo, APCo, I&M, KGPCo, KPCo, PSO, SWEPCo and WPCo.
Transmission and Distribution Utilities
•Transmission and distribution of electricity for sale to retail and wholesale customers through assets owned and
operated by AEP Texas and OPCo.
•OPCo purchases energy and capacity to serve standard service offer customers and provides transmission and
distribution services for all connected load.
AEP Transmission Holdco
•Development, construction and operation of transmission facilities through investments in AEPTCo. These
investments have FERC-approved ROEs.
•Development, construction and operation of transmission facilities through investments in AEP’s transmission-
only joint ventures. These investments have PUCT-approved or FERC-approved ROEs.
Generation & Marketing
•Contracted renewable energy investments and management services.
•Marketing, risk management and retail activities in ERCOT, MISO, PJM and SPP.
•Competitive generation in PJM.
The remainder of AEP’s activities are presented as Corporate and Other. While not considered a reportable segment,
Corporate and Other primarily includes the purchasing of receivables from certain AEP utility subsidiaries, Parent’s
guarantee revenue received from affiliates, investment income, interest income and interest expense, income tax
expense and other nonallocated costs.
322
The tables below present AEP’s reportable segment income statement information for the years ended December 31,
2022, 2021 and 2020 and reportable segment balance sheet information as of December 31, 2022 and 2021.  
Vertically
Integrated
UtilitiesTransmission
and
Distribution
UtilitiesAEP
Transmission
HoldcoGeneration &
MarketingCorporate and
Other (a)Reconciling
Adjustments Consolidated
(in millions)
2022
Revenues from:
External Customers $11,292.8 $ 5,489.6 $ 357.5 $ 2,448.9 $ 50.7 $ — $ 19,639.5 
Other Operating Segments 184.7 22.4 1,319.5 18.0 59.2 (1,603.8) — 
Total Revenues $11,477.5 $ 5,512.0 $ 1,677.0 $ 2,466.9 $ 109.9 $ (1,603.8) $ 19,639.5 
Loss on the Expected Sale of
the Kentucky Operations $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 363.3 $ — $ 363.3 
Asset Impairments and Other
Related Charges 24.9 — — — 23.9 — 48.8 
Establishment of 2017-2019
Virginia Triennial Review
Regulatory Asset (37.0) — — — — — (37.0)
Gain on Sale of Mineral
Rights — — — (116.3) — — (116.3)
Depreciation and Amortization 2,007.2 746.7 355.0 93.0 0.9 — 3,202.8 
Interest Expense 650.9 328.0 169.3 51.8 308.9 (112.8) 1,396.1 
Income Tax Expense (Benefit) (93.8) 116.9 193.6 (83.1) (128.2) — 5.4 
Equity Earnings (Loss) of
Unconsolidated
Subsidiaries 1.4 0.6 83.4 (192.4) (2.4) — (109.4)
Net Income (Loss) $ 1,296.2 $ 595.7 $ 676.8 $ 274.5 $ (537.6) $ — $ 2,305.6 
Gross Property Additions $ 4,164.6 $ 2,177.3 $ 1,470.8 $ 69.2 $ 25.9 $ (28.8) $ 7,879.0 
Total Assets (d) $49,761.8 $ 22,920.2 $ 15,215.8 $ 4,520.1 $ 6,834.5 (b)$ (5,783.0)(c) $ 93,469.4 
Investments in Equity
Method Investees $ 10.1 $ 3.0 $ 858.3 $ 337.6 $ 67.7 $ — $ 1,276.7 
Vertically
Integrated
UtilitiesTransmission
and
Distribution
UtilitiesAEP
Transmission
HoldcoGeneration &
MarketingCorporate and
Other (a)Reconciling
Adjustments Consolidated
(in millions)
2021
Revenues from:
External Customers $ 9,852.2 $ 4,464.1 $ 351.1 $ 2,108.3 $ 16.3 $ — $ 16,792.0 
Other Operating Segments 146.3 28.8 1,175.1 55.4 55.9 (1,461.5) — 
Total Revenues $ 9,998.5 $ 4,492.9 $ 1,526.2 $ 2,163.7 $ 72.2 $ (1,461.5) $ 16,792.0 
Asset Impairments and Other
Related Charges $ 11.6 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 11.6 
Depreciation and Amortization 1,747.6 690.3 306.0 80.9 0.9 — 2,825.7 
Interest Expense 574.2 300.9 146.3 15.6 180.8 (18.7) 1,199.1 
Income Tax Expense (Benefit) (11.2) 77.5 159.6 (48.8) (61.6) — 115.5 
Equity Earnings (Loss) of
Unconsolidated
Subsidiaries 3.4 — 75.0 (10.6) 23.9 — 91.7 
Net Income (Loss) $ 1,116.7 $ 543.4 $ 682.0 $ 210.2 $ (64.2) $ — $ 2,488.1 
Gross Property Additions $ 2,963.1 $ 1,766.0 $ 1,468.6 $ 232.8 $ 25.5 $ (29.2) $ 6,426.8 
Total Assets (d) $46,974.2 $ 21,120.2 $ 13,873.3 $ 4,263.6 $ 5,846.5 (b)$ (4,409.1)(c) $ 87,668.7 
Investments in Equity
Method Investees $ 33.5 $ 2.5 $ 830.4 $ 487.8 $ 93.3 $ — $ 1,447.5 
323
Vertically
Integrated
UtilitiesTransmission
and
Distribution
UtilitiesAEP
Transmission
HoldcoGeneration &
MarketingCorporate and
Other (a)Reconciling
Adjustments Consolidated
(in millions)
2020
Revenues from:
External Customers $ 8,753.2 $ 4,238.7 $ 297.4 $ 1,621.0 $ 8.2 $ — $ 14,918.5 
Other Operating Segments 126.2 107.2 901.4 104.6 88.6 (1,328.0) — 
Total Revenues $ 8,879.4 $ 4,345.9 $ 1,198.8 $ 1,725.6 $ 96.8 $ (1,328.0) $ 14,918.5 
Depreciation and Amortization$ 1,600.5 $ 751.1 $ 257.6 $ 72.8 $ 0.8 $ — $ 2,682.8 
Interest Expense 565.0 289.2 133.2 24.0 196.4 (42.1) 1,165.7 
Income Tax Expense (Benefit) (7.0) 29.7 130.8 (108.0) (5.0) — 40.5 
Equity Earnings of
Unconsolidated
Subsidiaries 2.9 — 82.4 3.2 2.6 — 91.1 
Net Income (Loss) $ 1,064.5 $ 496.4 $ 508.5 $ 216.9 $ (89.6) $ — $ 2,196.7 
Gross Property Additions $ 2,291.2 $ 2,108.1 $ 1,649.3 $ 197.0 $ 16.0 $ (15.3) $ 6,246.3 
Investments in Equity
Method Investees $ 37.1 $ 2.1 $ 831.3 $ 467.0 $ 68.8 $ — $ 1,406.3 
(a) Corporate and Other primarily includes the purchasing of receivables from certain AEP utility subsidiaries. This segment also includes Parent’s
guarantee revenue received from affiliates, investment income, interest income, interest expense and other nonallocated costs.
(b) Includes elimination of AEP Parent’s investments in wholly-owned subsidiary companies.
(c) Reconciling Adjustments for Total Assets primarily include elimination of intercompany advances to affiliates and intercompany accounts receivable.
(d) Amount includes Assets Held for Sale on the balance sheet. See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional information.
324
Registrant Subsidiaries’ Reportable Segments (Applies to all Registrant Subsidiaries except AEPTCo)
The Registrant Subsidiaries each have one reportable segment, an integrated electricity generation, transmission and
distribution business for APCo, I&M, PSO and SWEPCo, and an integrated electricity transmission and distribution
business for AEP Texas and OPCo.  Other activities are insignificant.  The Registrant Subsidiaries’ operations are
managed on an integrated basis because of the substantial impact of cost-based rates and regulatory oversight on the
business process, cost structures and operating results.
AEPTCo’s Reportable Segments
AEPTCo Parent is the holding company of seven FERC-regulated transmission-only electric utilities. The seven State
Transcos have been identified as operating segments of AEPTCo under the accounting guidance for “Segment
Reporting.” The State Transcos business consists of developing, constructing and operating transmission facilities at the
request of the RTOs in which they operate and in replacing and upgrading facilities, assets and components of the
existing AEP transmission system as needed to maintain reliability standards and provide service to AEP’s wholesale
and retail customers. The State Transcos are regulated for rate-making purposes exclusively by the FERC and earn
revenues through tariff rates charged for the use of their electric transmission systems.
AEPTCo’s Chief Operating Decision Maker makes operating decisions, allocates resources to and assesses
performance-based on these operating segments. The State Transcos operating segments all have similar economic
characteristics and meet all of the criteria under the accounting guidance for “Segment Reporting” to be aggregated into
one operating segment. As a result, AEPTCo has one reportable segment. The remainder of AEPTCo’s activity is
presented in AEPTCo Parent. While not considered a reportable segment, AEPTCo Parent represents the activity of the
holding company which primarily relates to debt financing activity and general corporate activities.
The tables below present AEPTCo’s reportable segment income statement information for the years ended December
31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 and reportable segment balance sheet information as of December 31, 2022 and 2021.
State TranscosAEPTCo
ParentReconciling
AdjustmentsAEPTCo
Consolidated
2022 (in millions)
Revenues from:
External Customers $ 340.9  $ — $ — $ 340.9  
Sales to AEP Affiliates 1,283.8  — — 1,283.8  
Other Revenues (0.2) — — (0.2)
Total Revenues $ 1,624.5  $ — $ — $ 1,624.5  
Depreciation and Amortization $ 346.2  $ — $ — $ 346.2  
Interest Income 0.7 177.8  (176.9 )(a) 1.6 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction 70.7 — — 70.7 
Interest Expense 162.5  177.1  (176.9 )(a) 162.7  
Income Tax Expense 169.1  — — 169.1  
Net Income $ 594.2  $ — (b) $ — $ 594.2  
Gross Pr operty Additions $ 1,468.3  $ — $ — $ 1,468.3  
Total Assets (e) $ 13,875.6  $ 4,817.4  (c) $ (4,878.8 )(d)$ 13,814.2  
325
State TranscosAEPTCo
ParentReconciling
AdjustmentsAEPTCo
Consolidated
2021 (in millions)
Revenues from:
External Customers $ 315.1  $ — $ — $ 315.1  
Sales to AEP Affiliates 1,153.9  — — 1,153.9  
Other Revenues 0.3 — — 0.3 
Total Revenues $ 1,469.3  $ — $ — $ 1,469.3  
Depreciation and Amortization $ 297.3  $ — $ — $ 297.3  
Interest Income 0.1 158.1  (157.7 )(a) 0.5 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction 67.2 — — 67.2 
Interest Expense 141.2  157.7  (157.7 )(a) 141.2  
Income Tax Expense 144.1  — — 144.1  
Net Income $ 591.5  $ 0.2 (b) $ — $ 591.7  
Gross Pr operty Additions $ 1,442.7  $ — $ — $ 1,442.7  
Total Assets (e) $ 12,564.3  $ 4,389.5  (c) $ (4,429.4 )(d)$ 12,524.4  
State TranscosAEPTCo
ParentReconciling
AdjustmentsAEPTCo
Consolidated
2020 (in millions)
Revenues from:
External Customers $ 248.8  $ — $ — $ 248.8  
Sales to AEP Affiliates 896.3  — — 896.3  
Other Revenue 0.6 — — 0.6 
Total Revenues $ 1,145.7  $ — $ — $ 1,145.7  
Depreciation and Amortization $ 249.0  $ — $ — $ 249.0  
Interest Income 0.9 149.6  (148.1 )(a) 2.4 
Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction 74.0 — — 74.0 
Interest Expense 127.8  148.1  (148.1 )(a) 127.8  
Income Tax Expense 106.5  0.2 — 106.7  
Net Income $ 422.3  $ 1.1 (b)$ — $ 423.4  
Gross Pr operty Additions $ 1,621.9  $ — $ — $ 1,621.9  
(a)    Elimination of intercompany interest income/interest expense on af filiated debt arrangement.
(b)    Includes elimination of AEPTCo Parent’ s equity earnings in the State Transcos.
(c)    Primarily relates to Notes Receivable from the State Transcos.
(d)    Primarily relates to elimination of Notes Receivable from the State Transcos.
(e)    Amount includes Assets Held for Sale on the balan ce sheet. See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional
information.
326
10.  DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING
The disclosures in this note apply to all Registrants unless indicated otherwise. For the periods presented, AEPTCo did
not have any derivative and hedging activity.
OBJECTIVES FOR UTILIZATION OF DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS
AEPSC is agent for and transacts on behalf of certain AEP subsidiaries, including the Registrant Subsidiaries. AEPEP is
agent for and transacts on behalf of other AEP subsidiaries.
The Registrants are exposed to certain market risks as major power producers and participants in the electricity,
capacity, natural gas, coal and emission allowance markets.  These risks include commodity price risks which may be
subject to capacity risk, interest rate risk and credit risk.  These risks represent the risk of loss that may impact the
Registrants due to changes in the underlying market prices or rates.  Management utilizes derivative instruments to
manage these risks.
STRATEGIES FOR UTILIZATION OF DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS TO ACHIEVE OBJECTIVES
Risk Management Strategies
The strategy surrounding the use of derivative instruments primarily focuses on managing risk exposures, future cash
flows and creating value utilizing both economic and formal hedging strategies.  The risk management strategies also
include the use of derivative instruments for trading purposes which focus on seizing market opportunities to create
value driven by expected changes in the market prices of the commodities.  To accomplish these objectives, the
Registrants primarily employ risk management contracts including physical and financial forward purchase-and-sale
contracts and, to a lesser extent, OTC swaps and options.  Not all risk management contracts meet the definition of a
derivative under the accounting guidance for “Derivatives and Hedging.”  Derivative risk management contracts
elected normal under the normal purchases and normal sales scope exception are not subject to the requirements of this
accounting guidance.
The Registrants utilize power, capacity, coal, natural gas, interest rate and, to a lesser extent, heating oil, gasoline and
other commodity contracts to manage the risk associated with the energy business. The Registrants utilize interest rate
derivative contracts in order to manage the interest rate exposure associated with the commodity portfolio. For
disclosure purposes, such risks are grouped as “Commodity,” as these risks are related to energy risk management
activities. The Registrants also utilize derivative contracts to manage interest rate risk associated with debt financing.
For disclosure purposes, these risks are grouped as “Interest Rate.” The amount of risk taken is determined by the
Commercial Operations, Energy Supply and Finance groups in accordance with established risk management policies
as approved by the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors.
327
The following tables represent the gross notional volume of the Registrants’ outstanding derivative contracts:
Notional Volume of Derivative Instruments
December 31, 2022
Primary Risk
ExposureUnit of
Measure AEPAEP
Texas APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Commodity:
Power MWhs 226.8 — 17.9 4.2 2.5 2.9 2.2 
Natural Gas MMBtus 77.1 — 1.9 — — 1.9 2.1 
Heating Oil and GasolineGallons 6.9 1.9 1.0 0.7 1.4 0.9 1.0 
Interest Rate USD $ 99.9 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — 
Interest Rate on Long-term
Debt USD $1,650.0 $ — $ — $ — $ — $200.0 $ — 
December 31, 2021
Primary Risk
ExposureUnit of
Measure AEPAEP
Texas APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Commodity:
Power MWhs 287.9 — 33.1 13.6 2.7 11.9 3.4 
Natural Gas MMBtus 34.1 — — — — 1.3 5.1 
Heating Oil and GasolineGallons 7.4 1.9 1.1 0.7 1.5 0.8 1.0 
Interest Rate USD $116.5 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — 
Interest Rate on Long-term
Debt USD $950.0 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — 
Fair Value Hedging Strategies (Applies to AEP)
Parent enters into interest rate derivative transactions as part of an overall strategy to manage the mix of fixed-rate and
floating-rate debt.  Certain interest rate derivative transactions effectively modify exposure to interest rate risk by
converting a portion of fixed-rate debt to a floating-rate.  Provided specific criteria are met, these interest rate
derivatives may be designated as fair value hedges.
Cash Flow Hedging Strategies
The Registrants utilize cash flow hedges on certain derivative transactions for the purchase and sale of power
(“Commodity”) in order to manage the variable price risk related to forecasted purchases and sales.  Management
monitors the potential impacts of commodity price changes and, where appropriate, enters into derivative transactions
to protect profit margins for a portion of future electricity sales and purchases.  The Registrants do not hedge all
commodity price risk.
The Registrants utilize a variety of interest rate derivative transactions in order to manage interest rate risk
exposure.  The Registrants also utilize interest rate derivative contracts to manage interest rate exposure related to
future borrowings of fixed-rate debt.  The Registrants do not hedge all interest rate exposure.
328
ACCOUNTING FOR DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND THE IMPACT ON THE FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
The accounting guidance for “Derivatives and Hedging” requires recognition of all qualifying derivative instruments as
either assets or liabilities on the balance sheets at fair value.  The fair values of derivative instruments accounted for
using MTM accounting or hedge accounting are based on exchange prices and broker quotes.  If a quoted market price
is not available, the estimate of fair value is based on the best information available including valuation models that
estimate future energy prices based on existing market and broker quotes and other assumptions.  In order to determine
the relevant fair values of the derivative instruments, the Registrants apply valuation adjustments for discounting,
liquidity and credit quality.
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will fail to perform on the contract or fail to pay amounts due.  Liquidity risk
represents the risk that imperfections in the market will cause the price to vary from estimated fair value based upon
prevailing market supply and demand conditions.  Since energy markets are imperfect and volatile, there are inherent
risks related to the underlying assumptions in models used to fair value risk management contracts.  Unforeseen events
may cause reasonable price curves to differ from actual price curves throughout a contract’s term and at the time a
contract settles.  Consequently, there could be significant adverse or favorable effects on future net income and cash
flows if market prices are not consistent with management’s estimates of current market consensus for forward prices in
the current period.  This is particularly true for longer term contracts.  Cash flows may vary based on market
conditions, margin requirements and the timing of settlement of risk management contracts.
According to the accounting guidance for “Derivatives and Hedging,” the Registrants reflect the fair values of
derivative instruments subject to netting agreements with the same counterparty net of related cash collateral.  For
certain risk management contracts, the Registrants are required to post or receive cash collateral based on third-party
contractual agreements and risk profiles.  AEP netted cash collateral received from third-parties against short-term and
long-term risk management assets in the amounts of $481 million and $263 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021,
respectively. The amount of cash collateral from third-parties netted against short-term and long-term risk management
assets were immaterial for the Registrant Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2022 and 2021. The amount of cash
collateral paid to third-parties netted against short-term and long-term risk management liabilities were immaterial for
the Registrants as of December 31, 2022 and 2021.
329
The following tables represent the gross fair value of the Registrants’ derivative activity on the balance sheets. Unless
shown as a separate line on the balance sheets due to materiality, Current Risk Management Assets are included in
Prepayments and Other Current Assets, Long-term Risk Management Assets are included in Deferred Charges and
Other Noncurrent Assets, Current Risk Management Liabilities are included in Other Current Liabilities and Long-term
Risk Management Liabilities are included in Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities on the balance sheets.
AEP
December 31, 2022
Risk
Management
Contracts Hedging ContractsGross Amounts
of Risk
Management
Assets/
Liabilities
RecognizedGross
Amounts
Offset in the
Statement of
Financial
Position (b)Net Amounts of
Assets/Liabilities
Presented in the
Statement of
Financial
Position (c) Balance Sheet Location Commodity (a) Commodity (a) Interest Rate (a)
(in millions)
Current Risk Management Assets (d) $ 956.9 $ 212.2 $ 1.8 $ 1,170.9 $ (830.5)$ 340.4 
Long-term Risk Management Assets 565.5 148.9 14.3 728.7 (444.6) 284.1 
Total Assets 1,522.4 361.1 16.1 1,899.6 (1,275.1) 624.5 
Current Risk Management Liabilities
(e) 663.7 60.4 41.4 765.5 (620.3) 145.2 
Long-term Risk Management
Liabilities 412.0 17.4 91.1 520.5 (175.2) 345.3 
Total Liabilities 1,075.7 77.8 132.5 1,286.0 (795.5) 490.5 
Total MTM Derivative Contract Net
Assets (Liabilities) (f) $ 446.7 $ 283.3 $ (116.4)$ 613.6 $ (479.6)$ 134.0 
December 31, 2021
Risk
Management
Contracts Hedging ContractsGross Amounts
of Risk
Management
Assets/
Liabilities
RecognizedGross
Amounts
Offset in the
Statement of
Financial
Position (b)Net Amounts of
Assets/Liabilities
Presented in the
Statement of
Financial
Position (c) Balance Sheet Location Commodity (a) Commodity (a)Interest Rate (a)
(in millions)
Current Risk Management Assets (d) $ 513.4 $ 176.0 $ 1.2 $ 690.6 $ (496.2)$ 194.4 
Long-term Risk Management Assets 370.5 89.1 — 459.6 (192.6) 267.0 
Total Assets 883.9 265.1 1.2 1,150.2 (688.8) 461.4 
Current Risk Management Liabilities
(e) 395.7 40.9 — 436.6 (361.2) 75.4 
Long-term Risk Management Liabilities 243.9 16.7 38.1 298.7 (68.4) 230.3 
Total Liabilities 639.6 57.6 38.1 735.3 (429.6) 305.7 
Total MTM Derivative Contract Net
Assets (Liabilities) $ 244.3 $ 207.5 $ (36.9)$ 414.9 $ (259.2)$ 155.7 
330
AEP Texas
December 31, 2022
Risk Management Gross Amounts Offset Net Amounts of Assets/Liabilities
Contracts - in the Statement of Presented in the Statement of
Balance Sheet Location Commodity (a) Financial Position (b) Financial Position (c)
(in millions)
Current Risk Management Assets $ — $ — $ — 
Long-term Risk Management Assets — — — 
Total Assets — — — 
Current Risk Management Liabilities — — — 
Long-term Risk Management Liabilities — — — 
Total Liabilities — — — 
Total MTM Derivative Contract Net Assets $ — $ — $ — 
December 31, 2021
Risk Management Gross Amounts Offset Net Amounts of Assets/Liabilities
Contracts - in the Statement of Presented in the Statement of
Balance Sheet Location Commodity (a) Financial Position (b) Financial Position (c)
(in millions)
Current Risk Management Assets $ 0.6 $ (0.6)$ — 
Long-term Risk Management Assets — — — 
Total Assets 0.6 (0.6) — 
Current Risk Management Liabilities — — — 
Long-term Risk Management Liabilities — — — 
Total Liabilities — — — 
Total MTM Derivative Contract Net Assets (Liabilities) $ 0.6 $ (0.6)$ — 
331
APCo
December 31, 2022
Risk Management Gross Amounts Offset Net Amounts of Assets/Liabilities
Contracts - in the Statement of Presented in the Statement of
Balance Sheet Location Commodity (a) Financial Position (b) Financial Position (c)
(in millions)
Current Risk Management Assets $ 69.3 $ (0.2)$ 69.1 
Long-term Risk Management Assets 0.7 (0.7) — 
Total Assets 70.0 (0.9) 69.1 
Current Risk Management Liabilities 4.1 (0.5) 3.6 
Long-term Risk Management Liabilities 0.7 (0.6) 0.1 
Total Liabilities 4.8 (1.1) 3.7 
Total MTM Derivative Contract Net Assets (f) $ 65.2 $ 0.2 $ 65.4 
December 31, 2021
Risk Management Gross Amounts Offset Net Amounts of Assets/Liabilities
Contracts - in the Statement of Presented in the Statement of
Balance Sheet Location Commodity (a) Financial Position (b) Financial Position (c)
(in millions)
Current Risk Management Assets $ 47.5 $ (5.5)$ 42.0 
Long-term Risk Management Assets 0.2 (0.2) — 
Total Assets 47.7 (5.7) 42.0 
Current Risk Management Liabilities 7.2 (6.4) 0.8 
Long-term Risk Management Liabilities 0.2 (0.2) — 
Total Liabilities 7.4 (6.6) 0.8 
Total MTM Derivative Contract Net Assets $ 40.3 $ 0.9 $ 41.2 
332
I&M
December 31, 2022
Risk Management Gross Amounts Offset Net Amounts of Assets/Liabilities
Contracts - in the Statement of Presented in the Statement of
Balance Sheet Location Commodity (a) Financial Position (b) Financial Position (c)
(in millions)
Current Risk Management Assets $ 16.0 $ (0.8)$ 15.2 
Long-term Risk Management Assets 0.5 (0.3) 0.2 
Total Assets 16.5 (1.1) 15.4 
Current Risk Management Liabilities 0.9 (0.9) — 
Long-term Risk Management Liabilities 0.3 (0.3) — 
Total Liabilities 1.2 (1.2) — 
Total MTM Derivative Contract Net Assets (f) $ 15.3 $ 0.1 $ 15.4 
December 31, 2021
Risk Management Gross Amounts Offset Net Amounts of Assets/Liabilities
Contracts - in the Statement of Presented in the Statement of
Balance Sheet Location Commodity (a) Financial Position (b) Financial Position (c)
(in millions)
Current Risk Management Assets $ 11.1 $ (7.8)$ 3.3 
Long-term Risk Management Assets 0.2 (0.2) — 
Total Assets 11.3 (8.0) 3.3 
Current Risk Management Liabilities 14.8 (9.8) 5.0 
Long-term Risk Management Liabilities 0.2 (0.2) — 
Total Liabilities 15.0 (10.0) 5.0 
Total MTM Derivative Contract Net Assets (Liabilities) $ (3.7)$ 2.0 $ (1.7)
333
OPCo
December 31, 2022
Risk Management Gross Amounts Offset Net Amounts of Assets/Liabilities
Contracts - in the Statement of Presented in the Statement of
Balance Sheet Location Commodity (a) Financial Position (b) Financial Position (c)
(in millions)
Current Risk Management Assets $ — $ — $ — 
Long-term Risk Management Assets — — — 
Total Assets — — — 
Current Risk Management Liabilities 2.1 (0.3) 1.8 
Long-term Risk Management Liabilities 37.9 — 37.9 
Total Liabilities 40.0 (0.3) 39.7 
Total MTM Derivative Net Assets (Liabilities) (f) $ (40.0)$ 0.3 $ (39.7)
December 31, 2021
Risk Management Gross Amounts Offset Net Amounts of Assets/Liabilities
Contracts - in the Statement of Presented in the Statement of
Balance Sheet Location Commodity (a) Financial Position (b) Financial Position (c)
(in millions)
Current Risk Management Assets $ 0.5 $ (0.5)$ — 
Long-term Risk Management Assets — — — 
Total Assets 0.5 (0.5) — 
Current Risk Management Liabilities 6.7 — 6.7 
Long-term Risk Management Liabilities 85.8 — 85.8 
Total Liabilities 92.5 — 92.5 
Total MTM Derivative Contract Net Liabilities $ (92.0)$ (0.5)$ (92.5)
334
PSO
December 31, 2022
Risk Management
Contracts Hedging ContractsGross Amounts of
Risk Management
Assets/Liabilities
RecognizedGross Amounts
Offset in the
Statement of
Financial Position
(b)Net Amounts of
Assets/Liabilities
Presented in the
Statement of Financial
Position (c) Balance Sheet Location Commodity (a) Interest Rate (a)
(in millions)
Current Risk Management Assets $ 24.1 $ 1.6 $ 25.7 $ (0.4)$ 25.3 
Long-term Risk Management Assets — — — — — 
Total Assets 24.1 1.6 25.7 (0.4) 25.3 
Current Risk Management Liabilities 2.1 — 2.1 (0.5) 1.6 
Long-term Risk Management Liabilities — — — — — 
Total Liabilities 2.1 — 2.1 (0.5) 1.6 
Total MTM Derivative Contract Net
Assets (f) $ 22.0 $ 1.6 $ 23.6 $ 0.1 $ 23.7 
December 31, 2021
Risk Management Gross Amounts Offset Net Amounts of Assets/Liabilities
Contracts - in the Statement of Presented in the Statement of
Balance Sheet Location Commodity (a) Financial Position (b) Financial Position (c)
(in millions)
Current Risk Management Assets $ 12.4 $ (0.3)$ 12.1 
Long-term Risk Management Assets — — — 
Total Assets 12.4 (0.3) 12.1 
Current Risk Management Liabilities 3.7 — 3.7 
Long-term Risk Management Liabilities — — — 
Total Liabilities 3.7 — 3.7 
Total MTM Derivative Contract Net Assets
(Liabilities) $ 8.7 $ (0.3)$ 8.4 
335
SWEPCo
December 31, 2022
Risk Management Gross Amounts Offset Net Amounts of Assets/Liabilities
Contracts - in the Statement of Presented in the Statement of
Balance Sheet Location Commodity (a) Financial Position (b) Financial Position (c)
(in millions)
Current Risk Management Assets $ 16.8 $ (0.4)$ 16.4 
Long-term Risk Management Assets — — — 
Total Assets 16.8 (0.4) 16.4 
Current Risk Management Liabilities 2.0 (0.6) 1.4 
Long-term Risk Management Liabilities — — — 
Total Liabilities 2.0 (0.6) 1.4 
Total MTM Derivative Contract Net Assets (f) $ 14.8 $ 0.2 $ 15.0 
December 31, 2021
Risk Management Gross Amounts Offset Net Amounts of Assets/Liabilities
Contracts - in the Statement of Presented in the Statement of
Balance Sheet Location Commodity (a) Financial Position (b) Financial Position (c)
(in millions)
Current Risk Management Assets $ 10.1 $ (0.3)$ 9.8 
Long-term Risk Management Assets 1.1 — 1.1 
Total Assets 11.2 (0.3) 10.9 
Current Risk Management Liabilities 2.1 — 2.1 
Long-term Risk Management Liabilities — — — 
Total Liabilities 2.1 — 2.1 
Total MTM Derivative Contract Net Assets (Liabilities) $ 9.1 $ (0.3)$ 8.8 
(a)Derivative instruments within these categories are disclosed as gross.  These instruments are subject to master netting agreements and are presented on the
balance sheets on a net basis in accordance with the accounting guidance for “Derivatives and Hedging.”
(b)Amounts include counterparty netting of risk management and hedging contracts and associated cash collateral in accordance with the accounting
guidance for “Derivatives and Hedging.”
(c)All derivative contracts subject to a master netting arrangement or similar agreement are offset in the statement of financial position.
(d)Amount excludes Risk Management Assets of $8.5 million and $6 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, classified as Assets Held for
Sale on the balance sheets. See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional information.
(e)Amount excludes Risk Management Liabilities of $0 and $0.1 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, classified as Liabilities Held for
Sale on the balance sheets. See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional information.
(f)Increase in amounts as of December 31, 2022 are primarily due to increases in commodity prices for power and natural gas and an increase in value of
FTRs.
336
The tables below present the Registrants’ amount of gain (loss) recognized on risk management contracts:
Amount of Gain (Loss) Recognized on
Risk Management Contracts
Year Ended December  31, 2022
Location of Gain (Loss) AEP AEP  Texas APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Vertically Integrated Utilities Revenues $ 11.1 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — 
Generation & Marketing Revenues 313.8  — — — — — — 
Electric Generation, Transmission and
Distribution Revenues — — 0.5 10.6 — — — 
Purchased Electricity for Resale 5.0 — 4.5 0.1 — 0.2 — 
Other Operation 4.8 1.5 0.4 0.5 0.8 0.6 0.8 
Maintenance 6.7 1.8 0.9 0.6 1.2 0.8 1.1 
Regulatory Assets (a) 52.6 0.1 (0.1) (0.8) 52.1 3.6 (2.1)
Regulatory Liabilities (a) 299.7  (0.6) 82.4 8.6 3.7 98.5 77.9 
Total Gain on Risk Management
Contracts (b) $ 693.7  $ 2.8 $ 88.6 $ 19.6 $ 57.8 $ 103.7  $ 77.7 
Year Ended December  31, 2021
Location of Gain (Loss) AEP AEP  Texas APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Vertically Integrated Utilities Revenues $ (0.6)$ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — 
Generation & Marketing Revenues 169.1  — — — — — — 
Electric Generation, Transmission and
Distribution Revenues — — (0.5) (0.1) — — — 
Purchased Electricity for Resale 2.0 — 1.8 — — — — 
Other Operation 2.8 0.8 0.3 0.3 0.5 0.3 0.4 
Maintenance 3.4 1.0 0.5 0.3 0.6 0.4 0.5 
Regulatory Assets (a) (9.1) — (2.7) (14.8) 10.0 (3.6) 3.6 
Regulatory Liabilities (a) 156.4  0.2 55.9 (3.9) — 48.9 37.0 
Total Gain (Loss) on Risk
Management Contracts $ 324.0  $ 2.0 $ 55.3 $ (18.2)$ 11.1 $ 46.0 $ 41.5 
Year Ended December  31, 2020
Location of Gain (Loss) AEP AEP  Texas APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Vertically Integrated Utilities Revenues $ 0.8 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — 
Generation & Marketing Revenues 9.5 — — — — — — 
Electric Generation, Transmission and
Distribution Revenues — — 0.4 0.1 — — 0.1 
Purchased Electricity for Resale 1.4 — 1.2 0.1 — — — 
Other Operation (2.0) (0.6) (0.2) (0.2) (0.3) (0.2) (0.3)
Maintenance (2.9) (0.8) (0.4) (0.3) (0.5) (0.3) (0.4)
Regulatory Assets (a) (4.8) — — (0.1) (6.6) — 1.4 
Regulatory Liabilities (a) 114.9 0.4 20.3 12.4 12.4 39.1 20.2 
Total Gain (Loss) on Risk
Management Contracts $ 116.9 $ (1.0)$ 21.3 $ 12.0 $ 5.0 $ 38.6 $ 21.0 
(a) Represents realized and unrealized gains and losses subject to regulatory accounting treatment recorded as either current or noncurrent
on the balance sheets.
(b) Increase in amounts for the year ended December 31, 2022 are primarily due to increases in commodity prices for power and natural gas
and an increase in value of FTRs.
337
Certain qualifying derivative instruments have been designated as normal purchase or normal sale contracts, as
provided in the accounting guidance for “Derivatives and Hedging.”  Derivative contracts that have been designated as
normal purchases or normal sales under that accounting guidance are not subject to MTM accounting treatment and are
recognized on the statements of income on an accrual basis.
The accounting for the changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on whether it qualifies for and has
been designated as part of a hedging relationship and further, on the type of hedging relationship.  Depending on the
exposure, management designates a hedging instrument as a fair value hedge or a cash flow hedge.
For contracts that have not been designated as part of a hedging relationship, the accounting for changes in fair value
depends on whether the derivative instrument is held for trading purposes. Unrealized and realized gains and losses on
derivative instruments held for trading purposes are included in revenues on a net basis on the statements of income.
Unrealized and realized gains and losses on derivative instruments not held for trading purposes are included in
revenues or expenses on the statements of income depending on the relevant facts and circumstances. Certain
derivatives that economically hedge future commodity risk are recorded in the same line item on the statements of
income as that of the associated risk being hedged. However, unrealized and some realized gains and losses in regulated
jurisdictions for both trading and non-trading derivative instruments are recorded as regulatory assets (for losses) or
regulatory liabilities (for gains) in accordance with the accounting guidance for “Regulated Operations.”
Accounting for Fair Value Hedging Strategies (Applies to AEP)
For fair value hedges (i.e. hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset, liability or an identified portion
thereof attributable to a particular risk), the gain or loss on the derivative instrument as well as the offsetting gain or
loss on the hedged item associated with the hedged risk impacts net income during the period of change.
AEP records realized and unrealized gains or losses on interest rate swaps that are designated and qualify for fair value
hedge accounting treatment and any offsetting changes in the fair value of the debt being hedged in Interest Expense on
the statements of income.
The following table shows the impacts recognized on the balance sheets related to the hedged items in fair value
hedging relationships:
Carrying Amount of the Hedged LiabilitiesCumulative Amount of Fair  Value Hedging
Adjustment Included in the Carrying
Amount of the Hedged Liabilities
December  31, 2022 December  31, 2021 December  31, 2022 December  31, 2021
(in millions)
Long-term Debt (a) (b) $ (855.5 )$ (952.3 )$ 89.7 $ (8.5)
(a) Amounts included on the Balance Sheet within Curre nt and Noncurrent Liabilities line items Long-term Debt Due within One
Year and Long-term Debt, respectively .
(b) Amounts include $(38) million and $(46) million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively , for the fair value hedge
adjustment of hedged debt obligations for which hedge accounting has been discontinued.
The pretax effects of fair value hedge accounting on income were as follows:
Years Ended December  31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Gain (Loss) on Interest Rate Contracts:
Fair Value Hedging Instruments (a) $ (90.4)$ (35.5)$ 41.1 
Fair Value Portion of Long-term Debt (a) 90.4 35.5 (41.1)
(a) Gain (Loss) is included in Interest Expense on the statements of income.
338
In June 2020, AEP terminated a $500 million notional amount interest rate swap resulting in the discontinuance of the
hedging relationship. A gain of $57 million on the fair value of the hedging instrument was settled in cash and recorded
within operating activities on the statements of cash flows. Subsequent to the discontinuation of hedge accounting, the
remaining adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item of $57 million will be amortized on a straight line
basis through November 2027 in Interest Expense on the statements of income.
Accounting for Cash Flow Hedging Strategies (Applies to AEP, AEP Texas, APCo, I&M, PSO and SWEPCo)
For cash flow hedges (i.e. hedging the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows that is attributable to a
particular risk), the Registrants initially report the gain or loss on the derivative instrument as a component of
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) on the balance sheets until the period the hedged item affects net
income.  
Realized gains and losses on derivative contracts for the purchase and sale of power designated as cash flow hedges are
included in Total Revenues or Purchased Electricity for Resale on the statements of income or in Regulatory Assets or
Regulatory Liabilities on the balance sheets, depending on the specific nature of the risk being hedged.  During the
years ended 2022, 2021 and 2020, AEP applied cash flow hedging to outstanding power derivatives and the Registrant
Subsidiaries did not.
The Registrants reclassify gains and losses on interest rate derivative hedges related to debt financings from
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) on the balance sheets into Interest Expense on the statements of
income in those periods in which hedged interest payments occur.  During the years ended 2022, 2021 and 2020, AEP
applied cash flow hedging to outstanding interest rate derivatives. During the years ended 2021 and 2020, APCo
applied cash flow hedging to outstanding interest rate derivatives.  During the year ended 2022, PSO applied cash flow
hedging to outstanding interest rate derivatives. During the years ended 2022, 2021 and 2020, the other Registrant
Subsidiaries did not have outstanding interest rate derivatives.
For details on effective cash flow hedges included in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) on the balance
sheets and the reasons for changes in cash flow hedges, see Note 3 - Comprehensive Income.
Cash flow hedges included in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) on the balance sheets were:
Impact of Cash Flow Hedges on AEP’ s Balance Sheets
December  31, 2022 December  31, 2021
Commodity Inter est Rate Commodity Inter est Rate
(in millions)
AOCI Gain (Loss) Net of Tax $ 223.5  $ 0.3 $ 163.7  $ (21.3)
Portion Expected to be Reclassed to Net Income
During the Next Twelve Months 119.9 0.3 106.7  (3.3)
As of December 31, 2022 the maximum length of time that AEP is hedging its exposure to variability in future cash
flows related to forecasted transactions is 99 months and 96 months for commodity and interest rate hedges,
respectively.
339
Impact of Cash Flow Hedges on the Registrant Subsidiaries’  Balance Sheets
December  31, 2022 December  31, 2021
Inter est Rate
Expected to be Expected to be
Reclassified to Reclassified to
Net Income During Net Income During
AOCI Gain (Loss) the Next AOCI Gain (Loss) the Next
Company Net of Tax Twelve Months Net of Tax Twelve Months
(in millions)
AEP Texas $ (0.3)$ (0.2)$ (1.3)$ (1.1)
APCo 6.7 0.8 7.5 0.8 
I&M (5.1) (0.6) (6.7) (1.6)
PSO 1.3 0.1 — — 
SWEPCo 1.1 0.2 1.2 0.1 
The actual amounts reclassified from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) to Net Income can differ from
the estimate above due to market price changes.
Credit Risk
Management mitigates credit risk in wholesale marketing and trading activities by assessing the creditworthiness of
potential counterparties before entering into transactions with them and continuing to evaluate their creditworthiness on
an ongoing basis. Management uses credit agency ratings and current market-based qualitative and quantitative data as
well as financial statements to assess the financial health of counterparties on an ongoing basis.
Master agreements are typically used to facilitate the netting of cash flows associated with a single counterparty and
may include collateral requirements. Collateral requirements in the form of cash, letters of credit and parental/affiliate
guarantees may be obtained as security from counterparties in order to mitigate credit risk. Some master agreements
include margining, which requires a counterparty to post cash or letters of credit in the event exposure exceeds the
established threshold. The threshold represents an unsecured credit limit which may be supported by a parental/affiliate
guaranty, as determined in accordance with AEP’s credit policy. In addition, master agreements allow for termination
and liquidation of all positions in the event of a default including a failure or inability to post collateral when required.
Credit-Risk-Related Contingent Features
Credit Downgrade Triggers (Applies to AEP, APCo, I&M, PSO and SWEPCo)
A limited number of derivative contracts include collateral triggering events, which include a requirement to maintain
certain credit ratings. On an ongoing basis, AEP’s risk management organization assesses the appropriateness of these
collateral triggering events in contracts. The Registrants have not experienced a downgrade below a specified credit
rating threshold that would require the posting of additional collateral. AEP had derivative contracts with collateral
triggering events in a net liability position with a total exposure of $2 million and $9 million as of December 31, 2022
and 2021, respectively. The Registrant Subsidiaries had no derivative contracts with collateral triggering events in a net
liability position as of December 31, 2022 and 2021.
340
Cross-Acceleration Triggers
Certain interest rate derivative contracts contain cross-acceleration provisions that, if triggered, would permit the
counterparty to declare a default and require settlement of the outstanding payable. These cross-acceleration provisions
could be triggered if there was a non-performance event by the Registrants under any of their outstanding debt of at
least $50 million and the lender on that debt has accelerated the entire repayment obligation. On an ongoing basis,
AEP’s risk management organization assesses the appropriateness of these cross-acceleration provisions in contracts.
AEP had derivative contracts with cross-acceleration provisions in a net liability position of $127 million and
$40 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. There was no cash collateral posted as of December 31,
2022 and 2021, respectively. If a cross-acceleration provision would have been triggered, settlement at fair value would
have been required. The Registrant Subsidiaries had no derivative contracts with cross-acceleration provisions
outstanding as of December 31, 2022 and 2021.
Cross-Default Triggers (Applies to AEP, APCo, I&M, PSO and SWEPCo)
In addition, a majority of non-exchange traded commodity contracts contain cross-default provisions that, if triggered,
would permit the counterparty to declare a default and require settlement of the outstanding payable. These cross-
default provisions could be triggered if there was a non-performance event by Parent or the obligor under outstanding
debt or a third-party obligation that is $50 million or greater.  On an ongoing basis, AEP’s risk management
organization assesses the appropriateness of these cross-default provisions in the contracts. AEP had derivative
liabilities subject to cross-default provisions in a net liability position of $217 million and $76 million as of December
31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, after considering contractual netting arrangements. There was no cash collateral
posted as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. If a cross-default provision would have been triggered,
settlement at fair value would have been required. The Registrant Subsidiaries’ derivative contracts with cross-default
provisions outstanding as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 were not material.
341
11.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
The disclosures in this note apply to all Registrants except AEPTCo unless indicated otherwise.
Fair Value Measurements of Long-term Debt (Applies to all Registrants)
The fair values of Long-term Debt are based on quoted market prices, without credit enhancements, for the same or
similar issues and the current interest rates offered for instruments with similar maturities classified as Level 2
measurement inputs.  These instruments are not marked-to-market.  The estimates presented are not necessarily
indicative of the amounts that could be realized in a current market exchange. The fair value of AEP’s Equity Units
(Level 1) are valued based on publicly-traded securities issued by AEP.
The book values and fair values of Long-term Debt are summarized in the following table:
December 31,
2022 2021
Company Book Value Fair Value Book Value Fair Value
(in millions)
AEP (a)(b)(c) $35,622.6 $31,767.1 $33,454.5 $37,564.7 
AEP Texas 5,657.8 5,045.8 5,180.8 5,663.8 
AEPTCo 4,782.8 3,940.5 4,343.9 4,968.2 
APCo 5,410.5 5,079.2 4,938.9 6,037.1 
I&M 3,260.8 2,929.0 3,195.0 3,748.0 
OPCo 2,970.3 2,516.6 2,968.5 3,437.5 
PSO 1,912.8 1,635.8 1,913.5 2,163.7 
SWEPCo 3,391.6 2,870.9 3,395.2 3,792.9 
(a) The fair value amounts include debt related to AEP’s Equity Units and had a fair value of $877 million and
$1.7 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. See “Equity Units” section of Note 14 for
additional information.
(b) The 2022 and 2021 book value amounts exclude Long-term Debt of $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion,
respectively, classified as Liabilities Held for Sale on the balance sheets. See “Disposition of KPCo and
KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional information.
(c) The 2022 and 2021 fair value amounts exclude Long-term Debt of $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion,
respectively, related to KPCo. See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional
information.
342
Fair Value Measurements of Other Temporary Investments (Applies to AEP)
Other Temporary Investments include marketable securities that management intends to hold for less than one year and
investments by AEP’s protected cell of EIS.  See “Other Temporary Investments” section of Note 1 for additional
information.
The following is a summary of Other Temporary Investments and Restricted Cash:
December 31, 2022
Gross Gross
Unrealized Unrealized Fair
Other Temporary Investments and Restricted Cash Cost Gains Losses Value
(in millions)
Restricted Cash (a) $ 47.1 $ — $ — $ 47.1 
Other Cash Deposits 9.0 — — 9.0 
Fixed Income Securities – Mutual Funds (b) 152.4 — (8.3) 144.1 
Equity Securities – Mutual Funds 15.0 19.4 — 34.4 
Total Other Temporary Investments and Restricted
Cash $ 223.5 $ 19.4 $ (8.3)$ 234.6 
December 31, 2021
Gross Gross
Unrealized Unrealized Fair
Other Temporary Investments and Restricted Cash Cost Gains Losses Value
(in millions)
Restricted Cash (a) $ 48.0 $ — $ — $ 48.0 
Other Cash Deposits 10.0 — — 10.0 
Fixed Income Securities – Mutual Funds (b) 154.3 0.5 — 154.8 
Equity Securities – Mutual Funds 19.7 35.9 — 55.6 
Total Other Temporary Investments and Restricted
Cash $ 232.0 $ 36.4 $ — $ 268.4 
(a)Primarily represents amounts held for the repayment of debt.
(b)Primarily short and intermediate maturities which may be sold and do not contain maturity dates.
The following table provides the activity for fixed income and equity securities within Other Temporary Investments:
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Proceeds from Investment Sales $ 30.2 $ 15.0 $ 50.9 
Purchases of Investments 18.8 26.9 41.6 
Gross Realized Gains on Investment Sales 6.1 3.6 3.8 
Gross Realized Losses on Investment Sales 1.3 — 0.2 
343
Fair Value Measurements of Trust Assets for Decommissioning and SNF Disposal (Applies to AEP and I&M)
Securities held in trust funds for decommissioning nuclear facilities and for the disposal of SNF are recorded at fair
value.  See “Nuclear Trust Funds” section of Note 1 for additional information.
The following is a summary of nuclear trust fund investments:
December  31,
2022 2021
Gross Other -Than- Gross Other -Than-
Fair Unrealized Temporary Fair Unrealized Temporary
Value Gains Impairments Value Gains Impairments
(in millions)
Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 21.2 $ — $ — $ 84.7 $ — $ — 
Fixed Income Securities:
United States Government 1,123.8  (3.1) (18.8) 1,156.4  66.3 (7.9)
Corporate Debt 61.6 (7.0) (9.6) 76.7 6.7 (2.1)
State and Local Government 3.3 0.1 (0.1) 7.3 0.4 (0.1)
Subtotal Fixed Income Securities 1,188.7  (10.0) (28.5) 1,240.4  73.4 (10.1)
Equity Securities - Domestic (a) 2,131.3  1,477.3  — 2,541.9  1,901.3  — 
Spent Nuclear  Fuel and
Decommissioning Trusts $ 3,341.2  $ 1,467.3  $ (28.5)$ 3,867.0  $ 1,974.7  $ (10.1)
(a) Amount reported as Gross Unrealized Gains includes unrealized gains of $1.5 billion and $1.9 billion and unrealized losses of $6
million and $ 4 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively .
he following table provides the securities activity within the decommissioning and SNF trusts:
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Proceeds from Investment Sales $ 2,713.6 $ 1,886.4 $ 1,593.4 
Purchases of Investments 2,765.4 1,928.2 1,637.2 
Gross Realized Gains on Investment Sales 52.4 103.2 26.4 
Gross Realized Losses on Investment Sales 42.6 16.5 26.1 
The base cost of fixed income securities was $1.2 billion and $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2021,
respectively.  The base cost of equity securities was $654 million and $641 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021,
respectively.
The fair value of fixed income securities held in the nuclear trust funds, summarized by contractual maturities, as of
December 31, 2022 was as follows:
Fair Value of Fixed
Income Securities
(in millions)
Within 1 year $ 365.2 
After 1 year through 5 years 425.4 
After 5 years through 10 years 203.0 
After 10 years 195.1 
Total $ 1,188.7 
344
Fair Value Measurements of Financial Assets and Liabilities
For a discussion of fair value accounting and the classification of assets and liabilities within the fair value hierarchy,
see the “Fair Value Measurements of Assets and Liabilities” section of Note 1.
The following tables set forth, by level within the fair value hierarchy, the Registrants’ financial assets and liabilities
that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis.  As required by the accounting guidance for “Fair Value
Measurements and Disclosures,” financial assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level
of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.  Management’s assessment of the significance of a particular
input to the fair value measurement requires judgment and may affect the valuation of fair value assets and liabilities
and their placement within the fair value hierarchy levels.  There have not been any significant changes in
management’s valuation techniques.
AEP
December 31, 2022
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Other Total
Assets: (in millions)
Other Temporary Investments and Restricted Cash
Restricted Cash $ 47.1 $ — $ — $ — $ 47.1 
Other Cash Deposits (a) — — — 9.0 9.0 
Fixed Income Securities – Mutual Funds 144.1 — — — 144.1 
Equity Securities – Mutual Funds (b) 34.4 — — — 34.4 
Total Other Temporary Investments and Restricted Cash 225.6 — — 9.0 234.6 
Risk Management Assets
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) (d) (i) 15.0 1,197.4 305.8 (1,211.3) 306.9 
Cash Flow Hedges:
Commodity Hedges (c) — 332.7 26.7 (52.8) 306.6 
Interest Rate Hedges — 11.0 — — 11.0 
Total Risk Management Assets 15.0 1,541.1 332.5 (1,264.1) 624.5 
Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Trusts
Cash and Cash Equivalents (e) 11.3 — — 9.9 21.2 
Fixed Income Securities:
United States Government — 1,123.8 — — 1,123.8 
Corporate Debt — 61.6 — — 61.6 
State and Local Government — 3.3 — — 3.3 
Subtotal Fixed Income Securities — 1,188.7 — — 1,188.7 
Equity Securities – Domestic (b) 2,131.3 — — — 2,131.3 
Total Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Trusts 2,142.6 1,188.7 — 9.9 3,341.2 
Total Assets $2,383.2 $2,729.8 $ 332.5 $(1,245.2)$4,200.3 
Liabilities:
Risk Management Liabilities
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) (d) (j) $ 21.8 $ 870.7 $ 178.9 $(731.6)$ 339.8 
Cash Flow Hedges:
Commodity Hedges (c) — 74.4 1.7 (52.8) 23.3 
Fair Value Hedges — 127.4 — — 127.4 
Total Risk Management Liabilities $ 21.8 $1,072.5 $ 180.6 $(784.4)$ 490.5 
345
AEP
December 31, 2021
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Other Total
Assets: (in millions)
Other Temporary Investments and Restricted Cash
Restricted Cash $ 48.0 $ — $ — $ — $ 48.0 
Other Cash Deposits (a) — — — 10.0 10.0 
Fixed Income Securities – Mutual Funds 154.8 — — — 154.8 
Equity Securities – Mutual Funds (b) 55.6 — — — 55.6 
Total Other Temporary Investments and Restricted Cash 258.4 — — 10.0 268.4 
Risk Management Assets
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) (f) (i) 7.4 648.5 226.3 (642.4) 239.8 
Cash Flow Hedges:
Commodity Hedges (c) — 242.9 19.2 (41.7) 220.4 
Fair Value Hedges — 1.2 — — 1.2 
Total Risk Management Assets 7.4 892.6 245.5 (684.1) 461.4 
Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Trusts
Cash and Cash Equivalents (e) 77.7 — — 7.0 84.7 
Fixed Income Securities:
United States Government — 1,156.4 — — 1,156.4 
Corporate Debt — 76.7 — — 76.7 
State and Local Government — 7.3 — — 7.3 
Subtotal Fixed Income Securities — 1,240.4 — — 1,240.4 
Equity Securities – Domestic (b) 2,541.9 — — — 2,541.9 
Total Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Trusts 2,619.6 1,240.4 — 7.0 3,867.0 
Other Investments (h) 28.8 14.9 — — 43.7 
Total Assets $2,914.2 $2,147.9 $ 245.5 $(667.1)$4,640.5 
Liabilities:
Risk Management Liabilities
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) (f) (j) $ 5.3 $ 485.0 $ 147.6 $(383.2)$ 254.7 
Cash Flow Hedges:
Commodity Hedges (c) — 54.0 0.6 (41.7) 12.9 
Fair Value Hedges — 38.1 — — 38.1 
Total Risk Management Liabilities $ 5.3 $ 577.1 $ 148.2 $(424.9)$ 305.7 
346
AEP Texas
December 31, 2022
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Other Total
Assets: (in millions)
Restricted Cash for Securitized Funding $ 32.7 $ — $ — $ — $ 32.7 
December 31, 2021
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Other Total
Assets: (in millions)
Restricted Cash for Securitized Funding $ 30.4 $ — $ — $ — $ 30.4 
Risk Management Assets
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) — 0.6 — (0.6) — 
Total Assets $ 30.4 $ 0.6 $ — $ (0.6)$ 30.4 
APCo
December 31, 2022
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Other Total
Assets: (in millions)
Restricted Cash for Securitized Funding $ 14.4 $ — $ — $ — $ 14.4 
Risk Management Assets
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) (g) — 0.7 69.4 (1.0) 69.1 
Total Assets $ 14.4 $ 0.7 $ 69.4 $ (1.0)$ 83.5 
Liabilities:
Risk Management Liabilities
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) (g) $ — $ 4.6 $ 0.3 $ (1.4)$ 3.5 
December 31, 2021
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Other Total
Assets: (in millions)
Restricted Cash for Securitized Funding $ 17.6 $ — $ — $ — $ 17.6 
Risk Management Assets
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) (g) — 5.8 42.0 (5.8) 42.0 
Total Assets $ 17.6 $ 5.8 $ 42.0 $ (5.8)$ 59.6 
Liabilities:
Risk Management Liabilities
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) (g) $ — $ 7.2 $ 0.3 $ (6.7)$ 0.8 
347
I&M
December 31, 2022
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Other Total
Assets: (in millions)
Risk Management Assets
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) (g) $ — $ 11.3 $ 5.3 $ (1.2)$ 15.4 
Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Trusts
Cash and Cash Equivalents (e) 11.3 — — 9.9 21.2 
Fixed Income Securities:
United States Government — 1,123.8 — — 1,123.8 
Corporate Debt — 61.6 — — 61.6 
State and Local Government — 3.3 — — 3.3 
Subtotal Fixed Income Securities — 1,188.7 — — 1,188.7 
Equity Securities - Domestic (b) 2,131.3 — — — 2,131.3 
Total Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Trusts 2,142.6 1,188.7 — 9.9 3,341.2 
Total Assets $2,142.6 $1,200.0 $ 5.3 $ 8.7 $3,356.6 
Liabilities:
Risk Management Liabilities
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) (g) $ — $ 0.6 $ 0.7 $ (1.3)$ — 
December 31, 2021
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Other Total
Assets: (in millions)
Risk Management Assets
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) (g) $ — $ 3.8 $ 7.6 $ (8.1)$ 3.3 
Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Trusts
Cash and Cash Equivalents (e) 77.7 — — 7.0 84.7 
Fixed Income Securities:
United States Government — 1,156.4 — — 1,156.4 
Corporate Debt — 76.7 — — 76.7 
State and Local Government — 7.3 — — 7.3 
Subtotal Fixed Income Securities — 1,240.4 — — 1,240.4 
Equity Securities - Domestic (b) 2,541.9 — — — 2,541.9 
Total Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Trusts 2,619.6 1,240.4 — 7.0 3,867.0 
Total Assets $2,619.6 $1,244.2 $ 7.6 $ (1.1)$3,870.3 
Liabilities:
Risk Management Liabilities
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) (g) $ — $ 6.7 $ 8.3 $ (10.0)$ 5.0 
348
OPCo
December 31, 2022
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Other Total
Assets: (in millions)
Risk Management Assets
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) (g) $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — 
Liabilities:
Risk Management Liabilities
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) (g) $ — $ — $ 40.0 $ (0.3)$ 39.7 
December 31, 2021
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Other Total
Assets: (in millions)
Risk Management Assets
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) (g) $ — $ 0.5 $ — $ (0.5)$ — 
Liabilities:
Risk Management Liabilities
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) (g) $ — $ — $ 92.5 $ — $ 92.5 
PSO
December 31, 2022
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Other Total
Assets: (in millions)
Risk Management Assets
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) (g) $ — $ — $ 24.0 $ 1.3 $ 25.3 
Cash Flow Hedges:
Interest Rate Hedges — 1.6 — (1.6) — 
Total Assets $ — $ 1.6 $ 24.0 $ (0.3)$ 25.3 
Liabilities:
Risk Management Liabilities
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) (g) $ — $ 1.7 $ 0.3 $ (0.4)$ 1.6 
December 31, 2021
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Other Total
Assets: (in millions)
Risk Management Assets
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) (g) $ — $ 0.3 $ 12.2 $ (0.4)$ 12.1 
Liabilities:
Risk Management Liabilities
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) (g) $ — $ 3.7 $ 0.1 $ (0.1)$ 3.7 
349
SWEPCo
December 31, 2022
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Other Total
Assets: (in millions)
Risk Management Assets
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) (g) $ — $ 2.2 $ 14.6 $ (0.4)$ 16.4 
Liabilities:
Risk Management Liabilities
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) (g) $ — $ 1.6 $ 0.4 $ (0.6)$ 1.4 
December 31, 2021
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Other Total
Assets: (in millions)
Risk Management Assets
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) (g) $ — $ 0.3 $ 11.0 $ (0.4)$ 10.9 
Liabilities:
Risk Management Liabilities
Risk Management Commodity Contracts (c) (g) $ — $ 2.1 $ 0.1 $ (0.1)$ 2.1 
(a) Amounts in “Other” column primarily represent cash deposits in bank accounts with financial institutions or third-parties.
Level 1 and Level 2 amounts primarily represent investments in money market funds.
(b) Amounts represent publicly-traded equity securities and equity-based mutual funds.
(c) Amounts in “Other” column primarily represent counterparty netting of risk management and hedging contracts and
associated cash collateral under the accounting guidance for “Derivatives and Hedging.”
(d) The December 31, 2022 maturities of the net fair value of risk management contracts prior to cash collateral,
assets/(liabilities), were as follows: Level 1 matures $(7) million in 2023; Level 2 matures $182 million in 2023, $134
million in periods 2024-2026, $10 million in periods 2027-2028 and $1 million in periods 2029-2033; Level 3 matures
$128 million in 2023, $6 million in periods 2024-2026, $6 million in periods 2027-2028 and $(5) million in periods 2029-
2033. Risk management commodity contracts are substantially comprised of power contracts.
(e) Amounts in “Other” column primarily represent accrued interest receivables from financial institutions.  Level 1 amounts
primarily represent investments in money market funds.
(f) The December 31, 2021 maturities of the net fair value of risk management contracts prior to cash collateral,
assets/(liabilities), were as follows: Level 1 matures $1 million in 2022 and $1 million in periods 2023-2025; Level 2
matures $42 million in 2022, $109 million in periods 2023-2025; $10 million in periods 2026-2027 and $3 million in
periods 2028-2033; Level 3 matures $82 million in 2022, $10 million in periods 2023-2025, $9 million in periods 2026-
2027 and $(17) million in periods 2028-2033.  Risk management commodity contracts are substantially comprised of
power contracts.
(g) Substantially comprised of power contracts for the Registrant Subsidiaries.
(h) See “Warrants Held in Investee” section of Note 10 in the 2021 Annual Report for additional information.
(i) Amounts exclude Risk Management Assets of $8.5 million and $6 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021,
respectively, classified as Assets Held for Sale on the balance sheets. See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of
Note 7 for additional information.
(j) Amounts exclude Risk Management Liabilities of $0 million and $0.1 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021,
respectively, classified as Liabilities Held for Sale on the balance sheets. See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of
Note 7 for additional information.
350
The following tables set forth a reconciliation of changes in the fair value of net trading derivatives classified as Level
3 in the fair value hierarchy:
Year Ended December 31, 2022 AEP APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Balance as of December 31, 2021 $ 97.3 $ 41.7 $ (0.7)$ (92.5)$ 12.1 $ 10.9 
Realized Gain (Loss) Included in Net Income (or
Changes in Net Assets) (a) (b) 69.5 3.0 3.7 6.5 24.2 35.8 
Unrealized Gain (Loss) Included in Net Income
(or Changes in Net Assets) Relating to Assets
Still Held at the Reporting Date (a) (34.9) — — — — — 
Realized and Unrealized Gains (Losses) Included
in Other Comprehensive Income (c) 9.6 — — — — — 
Settlements (154.6) (44.7) (3.0) 0.3 (36.3) (45.0)
Transfers into Level 3 (d) (e) 1.7 — — — — — 
Transfers out of Level 3 (e) 0.1 — — — — 6.9 
Changes in Fair Value Allocated to Regulated
Jurisdictions (f) 165.9 69.1 4.6 45.7 23.7 5.6 
Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale related to
KPCo (g) (2.7) — — — — — 
Balance as of December 31, 2022 $ 151.9 $ 69.1 $ 4.6 $ (40.0)$ 23.7 $ 14.2 
Year Ended December 31, 2021 AEP APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 113.3 $ 19.3 $ 2.1 $(110.3)$ 10.3 $ 1.6 
Realized Gain (Loss) Included in Net Income (or
Changes in Net Assets) (a) (b) 48.6 8.3 (0.1) 2.4 16.1 9.5 
Unrealized Gain (Loss) Included in Net Income
(or Changes in Net Assets) Relating to Assets
Still Held at the Reporting Date (a) (45.2) — — — — — 
Realized and Unrealized Gains (Losses) Included
in Other Comprehensive Income (c) 24.2 — — — — — 
Settlements (89.0) (28.0) (2.2) 6.3 (26.4) (15.5)
Transfers into Level 3 (d) (e) (3.8) — — — — — 
Transfers out of Level 3 (e) (34.4) — — — — — 
Changes in Fair Value Allocated to Regulated
Jurisdictions (f) 89.4 42.1 (0.5) 9.1 12.1 15.3 
Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale related to
KPCo (g) (5.8) — — — — — 
Balance as of December 31, 2021 $ 97.3 $ 41.7 $ (0.7)$ (92.5)$ 12.1 $ 10.9 
351
Year Ended December 31, 2020 AEP APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Balance as of December 31, 2019 $ 109.9 $ 37.7 $ 5.8 $(103.6)$ 15.8 $ 1.4 
Realized Gain (Loss) Included in Net Income (or
Changes in Net Assets) (a) (b) 39.5 13.2 2.5 (1.6) 11.9 2.8 
Unrealized Gain (Loss) Included in Net Income
(or Changes in Net Assets) Relating to Assets
Still Held at the Reporting Date (a) 35.3 — — — — — 
Realized and Unrealized Gains (Losses) Included
in Other Comprehensive Income (c) 13.8 — — — — — 
Settlements (113.1) (51.6) (8.6) 8.9 (27.6) (6.6)
Transfers into Level 3 (d) (e) (3.8) — — — — — 
Transfers out of Level 3 (e) 5.6 0.7 0.4 — — — 
Changes in Fair Value Allocated to Regulated
Jurisdictions (f) 26.1 19.3 2.0 (14.0) 10.2 4.0 
Balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 113.3 $ 19.3 $ 2.1 $(110.3)$ 10.3 $ 1.6 
(a) Included in revenues on the statements of income.
(b) Represents the change in fair value between the beginning of the reporting period and the settlement of the risk management commodity
contract.
(c) Included in cash flow hedges on the statements of comprehensive income.
(d) Represents existing assets or liabilities that were previously categorized as Level 2.
(e) Transfers are recognized based on their value at the beginning of the reporting period that the transfer occurred.
(f) Relates to the net gains (losses) of those contracts that are not reflected on the statements of income.  These changes in fair value are
recorded as regulatory liabilities for net gains and as regulatory assets for net losses or accounts payable.
(g) Amounts represents Risk Management Assets classif ied as Assets Held for Sale on the balance sheets. See “Disposition of KPCo and
KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional information.
352
The following tables quantify the significant unobservable inputs used in developing the fair value of Level 3 positions:
AEP
December 31, 2022
Significant Input/Range
Fair Value Valuation Unobservable Weighted
Assets Liabilities Technique Input Low High Average (c)
(in millions)
Energy
Contracts $ 204.0 $ 167.4 Discounted
Cash FlowForward Market
Price (a) $2.91$187.34$ 49.14
FTRs (d) (e) 128.5 13.2 Discounted
Cash FlowForward Market
Price (a) (36.45) 20.72 1.18
Total $ 332.5 $ 180.6 
December 31, 2021
Significant Input/Range
Fair Value Valuation Unobservable Weighted
Assets Liabilities Technique Input Low High Average (c)
(in millions)
Energy Contracts
(f) $ 164.4 $ 135.2 Discounted
Cash FlowForward Market
Price (a) $10.30$76.70$ 37.11
Natural Gas
Contracts 3.6 — Discounted
Cash FlowForward Market
Price (b) 3.11 4.02 3.47
FTRs (d) (e) 77.5 13.0 Discounted
Cash FlowForward Market
Price (a) (23.93) 26.38 0.86
Total $ 245.5 $ 148.2 
353
APCo
December 31, 2022
Significant Input/Range
Fair Value Valuation Unobservable Weighted
Assets Liabilities Technique Input (a) Low High Average (c)
(in millions)
FTRs $ 69.4 $ 0.3 Discounted
Cash FlowForward Market
Price $(2.82)$18.88 $ 3.89 
December 31, 2021
Significant Input/Range
Fair Value Valuation Unobservable Weighted
Assets Liabilities Technique Input (a) Low High Average (c)
(in millions)
Energy Contracts$ — $ 0.3 Discounted
Cash FlowForward Market
Price $32.20 $56.54 $ 44.77 
FTRs 42.0 — Discounted
Cash FlowForward Market
Price (0.30) 26.38 2.63 
Total $ 42.0 $ 0.3 
I&M
December 31, 2022
Significant Input/Range
Fair Value Valuation Unobservable Weighted
Assets Liabilities Technique Input (a) Low High Average (c)
(in millions)
FTRs $ 5.3 $ 0.7 Discounted
Cash FlowForward Market
Price $0.16 $18.79 $ 1.23 
December 31, 2021
Significant Input/Range
Fair Value Valuation Unobservable Weighted
Assets Liabilities Technique Input (a) Low High Average (c)
(in millions)
Energy Contracts$ — $ 0.2 Discounted
Cash FlowForward Market
Price $32.20 $56.54 $ 44.77 
FTRs 7.6 8.1 Discounted
Cash FlowForward Market
Price (5.45) 17.78 (0.12)
Total $ 7.6 $ 8.3 
354
OPCo
December 31, 2022
Significant Input/Range
Fair Value Valuation Unobservable Weighted
Assets Liabilities Technique Input (a) Low High Average (c)
(in millions)
Energy Contracts$ — $ 40.0 Discounted
Cash FlowForward Market
Price $2.91 $187.34 $ 48.76 
December 31, 2021
Significant Input/Range
Fair Value Valuation Unobservable Weighted
Assets Liabilities Technique Input (a) Low High Average (c)
(in millions)
Energy Contracts$ — $ 92.5 Discounted
Cash FlowForward Market
Price $14.26 $52.98 $ 30.68 
PSO
December 31, 2022
Significant Input/Range
Fair Value Valuation Unobservable Weighted
Assets Liabilities Technique Input (a) Low High Average (c)
(in millions)
FTRs $ 24.0 $ 0.3 Discounted
Cash FlowForward Market
Price $(36.45)$3.40 $ (7.55)
December 31, 2021
Significant Input/Range
Fair Value Valuation Unobservable Weighted
Assets Liabilities Technique Input (a) Low High Average (c)
(in millions)
FTRs $ 12.2 $ 0.1 Discounted
Cash FlowForward Market
Price $(18.39)$1.87 $ (2.57)
355
SWEPCo
December 31, 2022
Significant Input/Range
Fair Value Valuation Unobservable Weighted
Assets Liabilities Technique Input (a) Low High Average (c)
(in millions)
FTRs $ 14.6 $ 0.4 Discounted
Cash FlowForward Market
Price $(36.45)$3.40 $ (7.55)
December 31, 2021
Significant Input/Range
Fair Value Valuation Unobservable Weighted
Assets Liabilities Technique Input Low High Average (c)
(in millions)
Natural Gas
Contracts $ 3.6 $ — Discounted
Cash FlowForward Market
Price (b) $3.11 $4.02 $ 3.47 
FTRs 7.4 0.1 Discounted
Cash FlowForward Market
Price (a) (18.39) 1.87 (2.57)
Total $ 11.0 $ 0.1 
(a) Represents market prices in dollars per MWh.
(b) Represents market prices in dollars per MMBtu.
(c) The weighted-average is the product of the forward market price of the underlying commodity and volume
weighted by term.
(d) Amounts exclude Risk Management Assets as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 of $8.6 million and $6 million,
respectively, classified as Assets Held for Sale on the balance sheets. See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo”
section of Note 7 for additional information.
(e) Amounts exclude Risk Management Liabilities as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 of $0.1 million and $0.5
million, respectively, classified as Liabilities Held for Sale on the balance sheets. See “Disposition of KPCo
and KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional information.
(f) Amount excludes Risk Management Liabilities of $0.1 million classified as Liabilities Held for Sale on the
balance sheets. See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional information.
The following table provides the measurement uncertainty of fair value measurements to increases (decreases) in
significant unobservable inputs related to Energy Contracts, Natural Gas Contracts, FTRs and Other Investments for the
Registrants as of December 31, 2022 and 2021:
Uncertainty of Fair Value Measurements
Significant Unobservable Input Position Change in InputImpact on Fair Value
Measurement
Forward Market Price Buy Increase (Decrease) Higher (Lower)
Forward Market Price Sell Increase (Decrease) Lower (Higher)
356
12. INCOME TAXES
The disclosures in this note apply to all Registrants unless indicated otherwise.
Income Tax Expense (Benefit)
The details of the Registrants’ Income Tax Expense (Benefit) as reported are as follows:
Year Ended December 31, 2022 AEPAEP
Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Federal:
Current $113.1 $ 29.0 $ 98.0 $(61.0)$43.4 $(27.0)$ (3.3)$ (32.3)
Deferred (88.8) 41.4 46.0 86.6 (51.3) 73.3 (50.5) 13.4 
Total Federal 24.3 70.4 144.0 25.6 (7.9) 46.3 (53.8) (18.9)
State and Local:
Current 26.6 2.2 8.8 (0.4) 10.9 (0.3) — (1.8)
Deferred (45.5) — 16.3 (7.0) 1.2 (1.8) 4.6 (4.5)
Total State and Local (18.9) 2.2 25.1 (7.4) 12.1 (2.1) 4.6 (6.3)
Income Tax Expense (Benefit) $ 5.4 $ 72.6 $ 169.1 $18.2 $ 4.2 $44.2 $(49.2)$ (25.2)
Year Ended December 31, 2021 AEPAEP
Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Federal:
Current $(27.8)$ (1.2)$ 69.8 $ 5.0 $26.9 $ 6.8 $(109.6)$ (16.7)
Deferred 182.6 40.5 54.1 14.9 (35.5) 25.2 105.6 26.2 
Total Federal 154.8 39.3 123.9 19.9 (8.6) 32.0 (4.0) 9.5 
State and Local:
Current 6.0 3.0 5.8 2.2 (0.6) (3.1) — 0.4 
Deferred (45.3) 0.8 14.4 — (1.4) 5.5 8.1 (10.5)
Total State and Local (39.3) 3.8 20.2 2.2 (2.0) 2.4 8.1 (10.1)
Income Tax Expense (Benefit) $115.5 $ 43.1 $ 144.1 $22.1 $(10.6)$34.4 $ 4.1 $ (0.6)
Year Ended December 31, 2020 AEPAEP
Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Federal:
Current $(138.2)$ 5.2 $ 22.2 $21.4 $11.3 $(26.6)$(11.4)$ (13.6)
Deferred 146.9 (15.4) 65.4 (27.1) (20.6) 74.0 8.3 19.6 
Total Federal 8.7 (10.2) 87.6 (5.7) (9.3) 47.4 (3.1) 6.0 
State and Local:
Current (16.7) (0.1) 2.8 9.3 1.9 (5.4) 0.1 (8.2)
Deferred 48.5 (0.9) 16.3 0.7 (0.1) 3.2 8.2 11.6 
Total State and Local 31.8 (1.0) 19.1 10.0 1.8 (2.2) 8.3 3.4 
Income Tax Expense (Benefit) $40.5 $(11.2)$ 106.7 $ 4.3 $(7.5)$45.2 $ 5.2 $ 9.4 
357
The following are reconciliations for the Registrants between the federal income taxes computed by multiplying pretax
income by the federal statutory tax rate and the income taxes reported:
AEP Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Net Income $ 2,305.6 $ 2,488.1 $ 2,196.7 
Less: Equity Earnings – Dolet Hills (1.4) (3.4) (2.9)
Income Tax Expense 5.4 115.5 40.5 
Pretax Income $ 2,309.6 $ 2,600.2 $ 2,234.3 
Income Taxes on Pretax Income at Statutory Rate (21%) $ 485.0 $ 546.0 $ 469.2 
Increase (Decrease) in Income Taxes Resulting from the Following Items:
Reversal of Origination Flow-Through 17.1 25.9 26.5 
Permanent - Miscellaneous 11.5 (1.3) (9.7)
Investment Tax Credit Amortization (14.3) (22.0) (18.8)
Production Tax Credits (197.1) (98.8) (83.1)
State and Local Income Taxes, Net (14.0) 39.4 25.1 
Removal Costs (26.5) (20.0) (18.6)
AFUDC (29.3) (30.6) (32.5)
Tax Adjustments (a) — (55.1) — 
Tax Reform Excess ADIT Reversal (214.5) (255.6) (268.2)
Federal Return to Provision (17.4) (1.6) (2.6)
CARES Act — — (48.0)
Other 4.9 (10.8) 1.2 
Income Tax Expense $ 5.4 $ 115.5 $ 40.5 
Effective Income Tax Rate 0.2 % 4.4 % 1.8 %
(a)2021 amount represents an out of period adjustment related to Deferred Income Taxes and Income Tax Expense (Benefit).
Management concluded the misstatement and subsequent correction was not material to the 2021 or prior period financial
statements.
AEP Texas Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Net Income $ 307.9 $ 289.8 $ 241.0 
Income Tax Expense (Benefit) 72.6 43.1 (11.2)
Pretax Income $ 380.5 $ 332.9 $ 229.8 
Income Taxes on Pretax Income at Statutory Rate (21%) $ 79.9 $ 69.9 $ 48.3 
Increase (Decrease) in Income Taxes Resulting from the Following Items:
State and Local Income Taxes, Net 1.7 2.4 (0.8)
AFUDC (4.1) (4.5) (4.1)
Parent Company Loss Benefit — (3.2) (4.5)
Tax Reform Excess ADIT Reversal (5.5) (21.3) (47.9)
Other 0.6 (0.2) (2.2)
Income Tax Expense (Benefit) $ 72.6 $ 43.1 $ (11.2)
Effective Income Tax Rate 19.1 % 12.9 % (4.9)%
358
AEPTCo Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Net Income $ 594.2 $ 591.7 $ 423.4 
Income Tax Expense 169.1 144.1 106.7 
Pretax Income $ 763.3 $ 735.8 $ 530.1 
Income Taxes on Pretax Income at Statutory Rate (21%) $ 160.3 $ 154.5 $ 111.3 
Increase (Decrease) in Income Taxes Resulting from the Following Items:
State and Local Income Taxes, Net 19.8 19.8 15.1 
AFUDC (14.8) (14.1) (15.5)
Parent Company Loss Benefit — (18.3) (7.0)
Other 3.8 2.2 2.8 
Income Tax Expense $ 169.1 $ 144.1 $ 106.7 
Effective Income Tax Rate 22.2 % 19.6 % 20.1 %
APCo Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Net Income $ 394.2 $ 348.9 $ 369.7 
Income Tax Expense 18.2 22.1 4.3 
Pretax Income $ 412.4 $ 371.0 $ 374.0 
Income Taxes on Pretax Income at Statutory Rate (21%) $ 86.6 $ 77.9 $ 78.5 
Increase (Decrease) in Income Taxes Resulting from the Following Items:
Reversal of Origination Flow-Through 4.7 11.7 12.7 
State and Local Income Taxes, Net (5.9) 2.1 7.9 
Removal Costs (9.8) (7.3) (5.7)
AFUDC (3.7) (4.6) (4.5)
Parent Company Loss Benefit — — (6.2)
Tax Adjustments (a) — 4.5 — 
Tax Reform Excess ADIT Reversal (50.9) (60.5) (72.3)
Federal Return to Provision (2.8) (1.6) (7.2)
Other — (0.1) 1.1 
Income Tax Expense $ 18.2 $ 22.1 $ 4.3 
Effective Income Tax Rate 4.4 % 6.0 % 1.1 %
(a)2021 amount represents an out of period adjustment related to Deferred Income Taxes and Income Tax Expense (Benefit).
Management concluded the misstatement and subsequent correction was not material to the 2021 or prior period financial
statements.
359
I&M Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Net Income $ 324.7 $ 279.8 $ 284.8 
Income Tax Expense (Benefit) 4.2 (10.6) (7.5)
Pretax Income $ 328.9 $ 269.2 $ 277.3 
Income Taxes on Pretax Income at Statutory Rate (21%) $ 69.1 $ 56.5 $ 58.2 
Increase (Decrease) in Income Taxes Resulting from the Following Items:
Reversal of Origination Flow-Through 2.9 3.5 1.6 
Investment Tax Credit Amortization (3.1) (6.4) (4.5)
State and Local Income Taxes, Net 9.6 (1.3) 1.5 
Removal Costs (12.4) (9.7) (10.5)
AFUDC (2.1) (2.7) (2.4)
Parent Company Loss Benefit — (2.8) (6.4)
Tax Reform Excess ADIT Reversal (54.0) (46.3) (46.8)
Federal Return to Provision (6.2) (0.6) 1.8 
Other 0.4 (0.8) — 
Income Tax Expense (Benefit) $ 4.2 $ (10.6)$ (7.5)
Effective Income Tax Rate 1.3 % (3.9)% (2.7)%
OPCo Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Net Income $ 287.8 $ 253.6 $ 271.4 
Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries (0.6) — — 
Income Tax Expense 44.2 34.4 45.2 
Pretax Income $ 331.4 $ 288.0 $ 316.6 
Income Taxes on Pretax Income at Statutory Rate (21%) $ 69.6 $ 60.5 $ 66.5 
Increase (Decrease) in Income Taxes Resulting from the Following Items:
Reversal of Origination Flow-Through 3.0 2.2 3.7 
State and Local Income Taxes, Net (1.6) — (1.7)
AFUDC (2.9) (2.3) (2.6)
Tax Adjustments (a) — 8.9 — 
Tax Reform Excess ADIT Reversal (27.5) (32.6) (27.2)
Federal Return to Provision 3.5 (1.2) 6.5 
Other 0.1 (1.1) — 
Income Tax Expense $ 44.2 $ 34.4 $ 45.2 
Effective Income Tax Rate 13.3 % 11.9 % 14.3 %
(a)2021 amount represents an out of period adjustment related to Deferred Income Taxes and Income Tax Expense (Benefit).
Management concluded the misstatement and subsequent correction was not material to the 2021 or prior period financial
statements.
360
PSO Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Net Income $ 167.6 $ 141.1 $ 123.0 
Income Tax Expense (Benefit) (49.2) 4.1 5.2 
Pretax Income $ 118.4 $ 145.2 $ 128.2 
Income Taxes on Pretax Income at Statutory Rate (21%) $ 24.9 $ 30.5 $ 26.9 
Increase (Decrease) in Income Taxes Resulting from the Following Items:
Investment Tax Credit Amortization (1.6) (1.8) (2.1)
Production Tax Credits (47.7) (6.0) — 
State and Local Income Taxes, Net 4.3 6.4 6.5 
Parent Company Loss Benefit — — (0.2)
Tax Reform Excess ADIT Reversal (25.4) (25.4) (25.5)
Federal Return to Provision (3.7) 0.7 (0.5)
Other — (0.3) 0.1 
Income Tax Expense (Benefit) $ (49.2)$ 4.1 $ 5.2 
Effective Income Tax Rate (41.6)% 2.8 % 4.1 %
SWEPCo Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Net Income $ 294.3 $ 242.1 $ 183.7 
Less: Equity Earnings – Dolet Hills (1.4) (3.4) (2.9)
Income Tax Expense (Benefit) (25.2) (0.6) 9.4 
Pretax Income $ 267.7 $ 238.1 $ 190.2 
Income Taxes on Pretax Income at Statutory Rate (21%) $ 56.2 $ 50.0 $ 39.9 
Increase (Decrease) in Income Taxes Resulting from the Following Items:
Reversal of Origination Flow-Through 2.3 1.8 1.9 
Depletion (4.0) (2.7) (3.4)
Production Tax Credits (57.1) (7.2) — 
State and Local Income Taxes, Net (4.9) (8.0) 2.7 
Parent Company Loss Benefit — — (5.6)
Tax Reform Excess ADIT Reversal (14.8) (31.1) (21.9)
Other (2.9) (3.4) (4.2)
Income Tax Expense (Benefit) $ (25.2)$ (0.6)$ 9.4 
Effective Income Tax Rate (9.4)% (0.3)% 4.9 %
361
Net Deferred Tax Liability
The following tables show elements of the net deferred tax liability and significant temporary differences for each
Registrant:
AEP December 31,
2022 2021
(in millions)
Deferred Tax Assets $ 3,402.5 $ 3,277.0 
Deferred Tax Liabilities (11,895.8) (11,479.5)
Net Deferred Tax Liabilities (a) $ (8,493.3)$ (8,202.5)
Property Related Temporary Differences $ (7,531.8)$ (7,020.3)
Amounts Due to Customers for Future Income Taxes 921.2 1,033.0 
Deferred State Income Taxes (949.9) (1,116.7)
Securitized Assets (98.9) (128.8)
Regulatory Assets (756.7) (645.4)
Accrued Nuclear Decommissioning (632.7) (743.2)
Net Operating Loss Carryforward 120.7 285.7 
Tax Credit Carryforward 611.5 439.8 
Operating Lease Liability 143.0 114.2 
Investment in Partnership (338.9) (392.1)
All Other, Net 19.2 (28.7)
Net Deferred Tax Liabilities (a) $ (8,493.3)$ (8,202.5)
(a) 2022 and 2021 excludes Net Deferred Tax Liabilities of $469.7  million and $441.6  million, respectively , classified as
Liabilities Held for Sale on the balance sheets.  See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional
information.
    
AEP Texas December 31,
2022 2021
(in millions)
Deferred Tax Assets $ 177.0 $ 173.8 
Deferred Tax Liabilities (1,321.2) (1,262.7)
Net Deferred Tax Liabilities $ (1,144.2)$ (1,088.9)
Property Related Temporary Differences $ (1,130.7)$ (1,060.2)
Amounts Due to Customers for Future Income Taxes 111.0 110.0 
Deferred State Income Taxes (36.6) (32.2)
Securitized Transition Assets (65.0) (84.4)
Regulatory Assets (48.9) (45.1)
Operating Lease Liability 20.3 15.8 
All Other, Net 5.7 7.2 
Net Deferred Tax Liabilities $ (1,144.2)$ (1,088.9)
362
AEPTCo December 31,
2022 2021
(in millions)
Deferred Tax Assets $ 162.5 $ 158.8 
Deferred Tax Liabilities (1,202.9) (1,121.7)
Net Deferred Tax Liabilities (a) $ (1,040.4)$ (962.9)
Property Related Temporary Differences $ (1,065.5)$ (997.0)
Amounts Due to Customers for Future Income Taxes 116.6 118.2 
Deferred State Income Taxes (106.0) (94.5)
Net Operating Loss Carryforward 5.5 8.1 
All Other, Net 9.0 2.3 
Net Deferred Tax Liabilities (a) $ (1,040.4)$ (962.9)
(a) 2022 and 2021 excludes Net Deferred Tax Liabilities of $ 16.1 million and $ 15.4 million, respectively , classified as Liabilities Held
for Sale on the balance sheets.  See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional information.
APCo December 31,
2022 2021
(in millions)
Deferred Tax Assets $ 510.3 $ 495.1 
Deferred Tax Liabilities (2,502.5) (2,299.8)
Net Deferred Tax Liabilities $ (1,992.2)$ (1,804.7)
Property Related Temporary Differences $ (1,509.8)$ (1,476.5)
Amounts Due to Customers for Future Income Taxes 163.0 182.1 
Deferred State Income Taxes (318.5) (288.8)
Securitized Assets (33.9) (39.3)
Regulatory Assets (301.2) (177.0)
Operating Lease Liability 15.6 14.2 
All Other, Net (7.4) (19.4)
Net Deferred Tax Liabilities $ (1,992.2)$ (1,804.7)
I&M December 31,
2022 2021
(in millions)
Deferred Tax Assets $ 933.7 $ 1,072.2 
Deferred Tax Liabilities (2,090.7) (2,172.4)
Net Deferred Tax Liabilities $ (1,157.0)$ (1,100.2)
Property Related Temporary Differences $ (398.0)$ (286.2)
Amounts Due to Customers for Future Income Taxes 114.3 135.5 
Deferred State Income Taxes (227.0) (222.0)
Regulatory Assets (29.5) (23.6)
Accrued Nuclear Decommissioning (632.7) (743.2)
Operating Lease Liability 13.6 13.5 
All Other, Net 2.3 25.8 
Net Deferred Tax Liabilities $ (1,157.0)$ (1,100.2)
363
OPCo December 31,
2022 2021
(in millions)
Deferred Tax Assets $ 218.8 $ 204.4 
Deferred Tax Liabilities (1,319.9) (1,205.3)
Net Deferred Tax Liabilities $ (1,101.1)$ (1,000.9)
Property Related Temporary Differences $ (1,133.8)$ (1,042.0)
Amounts Due to Customers for Future Income Taxes 112.6 117.7 
Deferred State Income Taxes (59.6) (58.8)
Regulatory Assets (57.6) (39.8)
Operating Lease Liability 15.5 17.2 
All Other, Net 21.8 4.8 
Net Deferred Tax Liabilities $ (1,101.1)$ (1,000.9)
PSO December 31,
2022 2021
(in millions)
Deferred Tax Assets $ 225.0 $ 170.0 
Deferred Tax Liabilities (1,013.6) (952.3)
Net Deferred Tax Liabilities $ (788.6)$ (782.3)
Property Related Temporary Differences $ (763.3)$ (708.6)
Amounts Due to Customers for Future Income Taxes 96.0 111.5 
Deferred State Income Taxes (81.9) (83.2)
Regulatory Assets (140.2) (228.0)
Net Operating Loss Carryforward 25.8 111.4 
Tax Credit Carryforward 54.3 6.6 
All Other, Net 20.7 8.0 
Net Deferred Tax Liabilities $ (788.6)$ (782.3)
SWEPCo December 31,
2022 2021
(in millions)
Deferred Tax Assets $ 374.9 $ 336.4 
Deferred Tax Liabilities (1,464.6) (1,424.0)
Net Deferred Tax Liabilities $ (1,089.7)$ (1,087.6)
Property Related Temporary Differences $ (1,053.8)$ (989.6)
Amounts Due to Customers for Future Income Taxes 146.2 154.8 
Deferred State Income Taxes (208.7) (234.9)
Regulatory Assets (114.1) (101.4)
Net Operating Loss Carryforward 42.7 67.4 
Tax Credit Carryforward 66.0 8.5 
All Other, Net 32.0 7.6 
Net Deferred Tax Liabilities $ (1,089.7)$ (1,087.6)
364
Federal and State Income Tax Audit Status
The statute of limitations for the IRS to examine AEP and subsidiaries originally filed federal return has expired for tax
years 2016 and earlier. AEP has agreed to extend the statute of limitations on the 2017 and 2018 tax returns to
December 31, 2023, to allow time for the current IRS audit to be completed including a refund claim approval by the
Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation. The statute of limitations for the 2019 return is set to naturally expire in
2023 as well.
The current IRS audit and associated refund claim evolved from a net operating loss carryback to 2015 that originated
in the 2017 return. AEP has received and agreed to two IRS proposed adjustments on the 2017 tax return, which were
immaterial. The exam is nearly complete, and AEP is currently working with the IRS to submit the refund claim to the
Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation for resolution and final approval.
AEP and subsidiaries file income tax returns in various state and local jurisdictions. These taxing authorities routinely
examine the tax returns, and AEP and subsidiaries are currently under examination in several state and local
jurisdictions. Generally, the statutes of limitations have expired for tax years prior to 2017. In addition, management is
monitoring and continues to evaluate the potential impact of federal legislation and corresponding state conformity.
Net Income Tax Operating Loss Carryforward
As of December 31, 2022, AEP, AEPTCo, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo have state net income tax operating loss
carryforwards as indicated in the table below:
State Net Income
 Tax Operating Loss Years of
Company State/Municipality Carryforward Expiration
(in millions)
AEP Arkansas $ 224.4  2023 -2032
AEP Colorado 82.6 NA
AEP Illinois 52.4 2031 -2041
AEP Kentucky 231.3  2030 -2037
AEP Louisiana 586.8  NA
AEP Michigan 58.7 2029 -2031
AEP New Jersey 13.7 2036 -2040
AEP New Mexico 22.9 NA
AEP Ohio Municipal 1,257.7  2023 -2027
AEP Oklahoma 943.3  2037 -2037
AEP Pennsylvania 64.4 2030 -2042
AEP Tennessee 77.7 2030 -2037
AEP Virginia 11.2 2030 -2037
AEP West Virginia 12.3 2029 -2037
AEPTCo Oklahoma 33.0 2037 -2037
OPCo Ohio Municipal 190.1  2024 -2027
PSO Oklahoma 899.6  2037 -2037
SWEPCo Arkansas 224.2  2023 -2032
SWEPCo Louisiana 577.2  NA
365
Tax Credit Carryforward
Federal and state net income tax operating losses sustained in 2017, 2019 and 2021 resulted in unused federal and state
income tax credits.  As of December 31, 2022, the Registrants have federal tax credit carryforwards and AEP and PSO
have state tax credit carryforwards as indicated in the table below.  If these credits are not utilized, federal general
business tax credits will expire in the years 2036 through 2041 and state tax credits will remain available indefinitely.
Total Federal Total State
Tax Credit Tax Credit
Company Carryforward Carryforward
(in millions)
AEP $ 612.0 $ 39.2 
AEP Texas 1.5 — 
AEPTCo 0.2 — 
APCo 2.0 — 
I&M 11.4 — 
OPCo 1.0 — 
PSO 54.3 39.2 
SWEPCo 66.0 — 
The Registrants anticipate future federal taxable income will be sufficient to realize the tax benefits of the federal tax
credits before they expire unused.
Valuation Allowance
AEP assesses the available positive and negative evidence to estimate whether sufficient future taxable income of the
appropriate tax character will be generated to realize the benefits of existing deferred tax assets. When the evaluation of
the evidence indicates that it is more-likely-than-not that AEP will not be able to realize the benefits of existing deferred
tax assets, a valuation allowance is recorded to reduce existing deferred tax assets to the net realizable amount.
Objective evidence evaluated includes whether AEP has a history of recognizing income, future reversals of existing
temporary differences and tax planning strategies.
Valuation allowance activity for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 was not material.
Uncertain Tax Positions
The reconciliations of the beginning and ending amounts of unrecognized tax benefits for AEP and OPCo are presented
below. The amount and activity of unrecognized tax benefits for the other Registrant Subsidiaries was immaterial for
periods presented:
AEP
2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Balance as of January 1, $ 14.3 $ 13.2 $ 24.1 
Increase – Tax Positions Taken During a Prior Period 5.1 1.2 0.6 
Decrease – Tax Positions Taken During a Prior Period — (3.2) (14.5)
Increase – Tax Positions Taken During the Current Year 3.8 3.1 3.0 
Decrease – Tax Positions Taken During the Current Year — — — 
Decrease – Settlements with Taxing Authorities — — — 
Decrease – Lapse of the Applicable Statute of Limitations — — — 
Balance as of December 31, $ 23.2 $ 14.3 $ 13.2 
366
OPCo
2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Balance as of January 1, $ — $ 3.2 $ 8.4 
Increase – Tax Positions Taken During a Prior Period 5.1 — — 
Decrease – Tax Positions Taken During a Prior Period — (3.2) (5.2)
Increase – Tax Positions Taken During the Current Year — — — 
Decrease – Tax Positions Taken During the Current Year — — — 
Decrease – Settlements with Taxing Authorities — — — 
Decrease – Lapse of the Applicable Statute of Limitations — — — 
Balance as of December 31, $ 5.1 $ — $ 3.2 
Management believes that there will be no significant net increase or decrease in unrecognized benefits within 12
months of the reporting date.  The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the
effective tax rate for AEP as of December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 were $23 million, $14 million, and $12 million,
respectively.
Federal Tax Legislation
In March 2020, the CARES Act was signed into law. The CARES Act includes tax relief provisions including a 5-year
NOL carryback from years 2018-2020. In the third quarter of 2020, AEP requested a $95 million refund of taxes paid in
2014 under the 5-year NOL carryback provision of the CARES Act. AEP carried back a NOL generated on the 2019
Federal income tax return at a 21% federal corporate income tax rate to the 2014 Federal income tax return at a 35%
corporate income tax rate. As a result of the change in the corporate income tax rates between the two periods, AEP
realized a tax benefit of $48 million during the third quarter of 2020 primarily at the Generation & Marketing segment.
AEP received the $95 million refund in the fourth quarter of 2021.
Inflation Reduction Act
In August 2022, President Biden signed H.R. 5376 into law, commonly known as the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022
or IRA. Most notably this budget reconciliation legislation creates a 15% minimum tax on adjusted financial statement
income (Corporate Alternative Minimum Tax or CAMT), extends and increases the value of PTCs and ITCs, adds a
nuclear and clean hydrogen PTC, an energy storage ITC and allows the sale or transfer of tax credits to third parties for
cash. This legislation has no material impact on the current period financial statements. As further significant guidance
from Treasury and the IRS is expected on the tax provisions in the IRA, AEP will continue to monitor any issued
guidance and evaluate the impact on future net income, cash flows and financial condition.
In November 2022, the IRS released Notice 2022-61 addressing the Prevailing Wage and Apprenticeship Requirements
(PWAR) tied to full value PTCs and ITCs for projects that begin construction on or after January 29, 2023. AEP’s
future renewable energy projects that begin construction after this date will be required to, and expect to, satisfy the
PWAR to receive full value ITCs and PTCs.
In December 2022, the IRS released Notice 2023-7 addressing time sensitive issues related to the CAMT. The notice
provided initial guidance that AEP can begin to rely on in 2023 and also stated that additional guidance is expected, of
which AEP will continue to monitor and assess. Notably, the interim guidance in Notice 2023-7 confirmed the CAMT
depreciation adjustment includes tax depreciation that is capitalized to inventory under §263A and recovered as part of
cost of goods sold, providing significant relief to AEP’s potential CAMT exposure.
The enactment of the IRA will have future cash flow and income tax reporting considerations. AEP and subsidiaries
expect to be applicable corporations beginning in 2023 and AEP expects to have CAMT cash tax payments beginning
in 2024. CAMT cash taxes are expected to be offset by regulatory recovery, the utilization of tax credits and
additionally the cash inflow generated by the sale of tax credits. The sale of tax credits will be presented in the
operating section of the statements of cash flows consistent with the presentation of cash taxes paid. AEP will present
the gain or loss on sale of tax credits through income tax expense. Management believes this
367
presentation provides consistency in financial statement reporting as it matches the originating income tax benefit of
the tax credits.
State Tax Legislation
In April 2021, West Virginia enacted House Bill (HB) 2026. HB 2026 changes the state income tax apportionment
formula from a ratio that includes property, payroll and sales to a single sales factor apportionment regime effective for
tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2022. HB 2026 also eliminates the “throw out” rule related to sales of
tangible personal property for sales factor apportionment calculation purposes and introduces a market-based sourcing
for sales of services and intangible property. During 2021, AEP recorded $23 million in Income Tax Expense as a result
of remeasuring West Virginia deferred taxes under the new apportionment methodology. The enacted legislation does
not impact AEP Texas, PSO or SWEPCo.
In May 2021, Oklahoma enacted HB 2960. HB 2960 reduces the Oklahoma corporate income tax rate from 6% to 4%.
During 2021, AEP recorded an immaterial amount of Income Tax Benefit as a result of remeasuring Oklahoma deferred
taxes at the lowered statutory tax rate of 4%. The enacted legislation does not impact APCo, I&M or OPCo.
In November 2021, Louisiana approved Constitutional Amendment 2, thereby also enacting HB 292. HB 292 reduces
the Louisiana corporate income tax rate from 8% to 7.5%. In the fourth quarter of 2021, AEP recorded an immaterial
amount of Income Tax Expense as a result of remeasuring Louisiana deferred taxes at the lowered statutory tax rate of
7.5%. The enacted legislation does not impact AEP Texas, APCo, I&M, OPCo or PSO.
In December 2021, Arkansas enacted HB 1001. HB 1001 reduces the Arkansas corporate income tax rate from 5.9% to
5.7%, with additional reductions to 5.3% contingent upon future events. In the fourth quarter of 2021, AEP recorded an
immaterial amount of Income Tax Expense as a result of remeasuring Arkansas deferred taxes at the lowered statutory
tax rate of 5.7%. The enacted legislation does not impact AEP Texas, APCo, I&M, OPCo or PSO.
In August 2022, Arkansas enacted Senate Bill 1.  Senate Bill 1 reduces the Arkansas corporate income tax rate from
5.7% to 5.3%.  In the third quarter of 2022, AEP recorded an immaterial amount of Income Tax Expense as a result of
remeasuring Arkansas deferred taxes at the lowered statutory tax rate of 5.3%. The enacted legislation does not impact
AEP Texas, APCo, I&M, OPCo or PSO.
368
13.  LEASES
The disclosures in this note apply to all Registrants unless indicated otherwise.
The Registrants lease property, plant and equipment including, but not limited to, fleet, information technology and real
estate leases. These leases require payments of non-lease components, including related property taxes, operating and
maintenance costs. AEP does not separate non-lease components from associated lease components. Many of these
leases have purchase or renewal options. Leases not renewed are often replaced by other leases. Options to renew or
purchase a lease are included in the measurement of lease assets and liabilities if it is reasonably certain the Registrant
will exercise the option.
Lease obligations are measured using the discount rate implicit in the lease when that rate is readily determinable. AEP
has visibility into the rate implicit in the lease when assets are leased from selected financial institutions under master
leasing agreements. When the implicit rate is not readily determinable, the Registrants measure their lease obligation
using their estimated secured incremental borrowing rate. Incremental borrowing rates are comprised of an underlying
risk-free rate and a secured credit spread relative to the lessee on a matched maturity basis.
Operating lease rentals and finance lease amortization costs are generally charged to Other Operation and Maintenance
expense in accordance with rate-making treatment for regulated operations. The amortization costs related to the
Rockport finance lease were charged to Depreciation and Amortization. Interest on finance lease liabilities is generally
charged to Interest Expense. Lease costs associated with capital projects are included in Property, Plant and Equipment
on the balance sheets. For regulated operations with finance leases, a finance lease asset and offsetting liability are
recorded at the present value of the remaining lease payments for each reporting period.  Finance leases for
nonregulated property are accounted for as if the assets were owned and financed.  The components of rental costs were
as follows:
Year Ended December  31, 2022 AEPAEP
Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Operating Lease Cost $ 157.5  $ 18.4 $ 1.1 $ 17.9 $ 29.5 $ 16.9 $ 11.8 $ 15.3 
Finance Lease Cost:
Amortization of Right-of-Use Assets 205.5  6.8 — 7.9 78.7 4.9 3.2 10.8 
Interest on Lease Liabilities 13.4 1.3 — 2.0 3.1 0.8 0.6 2.1 
Total Lease Rental Costs (a) $ 376.4  $ 26.5 $ 1.1 $ 27.8 $111.3 $ 22.6 $15.6 $ 28.2 
Year Ended December  31, 2021 AEPAEP
Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Operating Lease Cost $ 275.3  $ 18.4 $ 1.7 $ 19.3 $ 90.2 $ 19.0 $ 8.7 $ 12.1 
Finance Lease Cost:
Amortization of Right-of-Use Assets 74.7 6.7 — 7.7 12.9 4.9 3.2 11.0 
Interest on Lease Liabilities 14.4 1.4 — 2.4 3.0 0.8 0.6 2.5 
Total Lease Rental Costs (a) $ 364.4  $ 26.5 $ 1.7 $ 29.4 $106.1  $ 24.7 $12.5 $ 25.6 
Year Ended December  31, 2020 AEPAEP
Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Operating Lease Cost $ 279.6  $ 17.4 $ 2.6 $ 19.1 $101.5  $ 17.1 $ 7.8 $ 9.4 
Finance Lease Cost:
Amortization of Right-of-Use Assets 61.9 6.3 — 7.4 6.5 4.7 3.5 10.9 
Interest on Lease Liabilities 15.4 1.5 — 2.7 3.1 0.9 0.7 2.2 
Total Lease Rental Costs (a) $ 356.9  $ 25.2 $ 2.6 $ 29.2 $111.1 $ 22.7 $12.0 $ 22.5 
(a) Excludes variable and short-term lease costs, which were immaterial.
369
Supplemental information related to leases are shown in the tables below:
December  31, 2022 AEPAEP
Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
Weighted-A verage Remaining Lease Term
(years):
Operating Leases 12.69 4.33 2.05 5.29 5.79 5.98 23.90 23.55
Finance Leases 4.61 5.39 0.00 4.25 4.76 5.27 6.02 4.13
Weighted-A verage Discount Rate:
Operating Leases 3.54 % 4.15 % 1.96 % 3.61 % 3.62 % 3.73 % 3.43 % 3.41 %
Finance Leases 5.76 % 4.75 % — % 7.09 % 8.99 % 4.53 % 4.63 % 4.80 %
December  31, 2021 AEPAEP
Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
Weighted-A verage Remaining Lease Term
(years):
Operating Leases 10.39 5.91 2.95 5.68 5.87 6.69 20.89 20.24
Finance Leases 2.95 5.51 0.00 4.97 2.10 5.54 6.18 4.53
Weighted-A verage Discount Rate:
Operating Leases 3.35 % 3.53 % 0.90 % 3.42 % 3.46 % 3.56 % 3.35 % 3.34 %
Finance Leases 3.26 % 4.31 % — % 7.16 % 3.02 % 4.19 % 4.23 % 4.68 %
Year Ended December  31, 2022 AEPAEP
Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Cash paid for  amounts included in the
measur ement of lease liabilities:
Operating Cash Flows Used for Operating
Leases $155.1  $18.3 $ 1.0 $17.9 $29.7 $17.5 $10.5 $ 13.7 
Operating Cash Flows Used for Finance Leases 13.6 1.3 — 2.0 3.2 0.8 0.6 2.1 
Financing Cash Flows Used for Finance Leases 309.5  6.8 — 7.9 130.7  4.9 3.2 10.8 
Non-cash Acquisitions Under Operating Leases $191.4  $36.7 $ 1.7 $23.1 $19.1 $ 8.4 $46.0 $ 53.6 
Year Ended December  31, 2021 AEPAEP
Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Cash paid for  amounts included in the
measur ement of lease liabilities:
Operating Cash Flows Used for Operating
Leases $279.9  $18.0 $ 1.6 $19.3 $92.9 $19.0 $ 8.7 $ 11.6 
Operating Cash Flows Used for Finance Leases 14.3 1.4 — 2.4 2.9 0.8 0.6 2.5 
Financing Cash Flows Used for Finance Leases 64.0 6.7 — 7.7 6.8 4.9 3.2 10.9 
Non-cash Acquisitions Under Operating Leases $117.0 $ 4.4 $ 2.1 $ 4.2 $ 2.6 $ 4.2 $33.4 $ 42.9 
370
The following tables show property, plant and equipment under finance leases and noncurrent assets under operating
leases and related obligations recorded on the balance sheets.  Unless shown as a separate line on the balance sheets due
to materiality, net operating lease assets are included in Deferred Charges and Other Noncurrent Assets, current finance
lease obligations are included in Other Current Liabilities and long-term finance lease obligations are included in
Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities on the balance sheets. Lease obligations are not recognized on the
balance sheets for lease agreements with a lease term of less than twelve months.
December  31, 2022 AEPAEP
Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Property , Plant and Equipment
Under  Finance Leases:
Generation $120.5  $ — $ — $ 41.1 $ 28.0 $ — $ 0.6 $ 25.9 
Other Property , Plant and Equipment 321.2  53.7 — 20.1 40.6 32.7 25.2 58.3 
Total Property , Plant and Equipment 441.7  53.7 — 61.2 68.6 32.7 25.8 84.2 
Accumulated Amortization 229.3  23.6 — 31.9 34.8 13.8 10.8 54.6 
Net Pr operty , Plant and Equipment
Under  Finance Leases $212.4  (a)$ 30.1 $ — $ 29.3 $ 33.8 $ 18.9 $ 15.0 $ 29.6 
Obligations Under  Finance Leases:
Noncurrent Liability $168.2  $ 23.1 $ — $ 21.6 $ 27.1 $ 14.2 $ 11.7 $ 31.3 
Liability Due Within One Year 57.2 7.0 — 7.7 6.9 4.7 3.3 10.9 
Total Obligations Under  Finance
Leases $225.4  (b)$ 30.1 $ — $ 29.3 $ 34.0 $ 18.9 $ 15.0 $ 42.2 
December  31, 2021 AEPAEP
Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Property , Plant and Equipment
Under  Finance Leases:
Generation $388.8  $ — $ — $ 42.8 $156.8  $ — $ 0.6 $ 34.3 
Other Property , Plant and Equipment 323.8  50.7 — 20.4 42.1 32.1 23.9 55.7 
Total Property , Plant and Equipment 712.6  50.7 — 63.2 198.9  32.1 24.5 90.0 
Accumulated Amortization 222.4  19.9 — 27.5 38.2 12.8 9.2 47.8 
Net Pr operty , Plant and Equipment
Under  Finance Leases $490.2  (a)$30.8 $ — $ 35.7 $160.7  $ 19.3 $ 15.3 $ 42.2 
Obligations Under  Finance Leases:
Noncurrent Liability $196.1  $24.2 $ — $ 28.1 $ 31.7 $ 14.9 $ 12.3 $ 38.9 
Liability Due Within One Year 304.6  6.6 — 7.6 130.5  4.4 3.0 10.8 
Total Obligations Under  Finance
Leases $500.7  (b)$30.8 $ — $ 35.7 $162.2  $ 19.3 $ 15.3 $ 49.7 
(a)    Amount excludes $369 thousand and $3 million of Net Property , Plant and Equipment Under Finance Leases classified as Assets Held
for Sale on the balance sheet for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively . See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo”
section of Note 7 for additional information.
(b)    Amount exclu des $369 thousand and $3 million of Obligations Under Finance Leases class ified as Liabilities Held for Sale on the
balance sheet for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively . See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7
for additional information.
371
December  31, 2022 AEPAEP
Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Operating Lease Assets $645.0  (a)$ 94.7 $ 2.7 $73.6 $ 64.3 $ 73.8 $106.1  $ 123.4  
Obligations Under  Operating
Leases:
Noncurrent Liability $552.1  $ 67.8 $ 1.5 $59.1 $ 48.9 $ 60.3 $ 99.3 $ 120.2  
Liability Due Within One Year 113.4 28.6 1.3 15.0 16.0 13.5 8.9 8.4 
Total Obligations Under  Operating
Leases $665.5  (b)$ 96.4 $ 2.8 $74.1 $ 64.9 $ 73.8 $108.2  $ 128.6  
December  31, 2021 AEPAEP
Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Operating Lease Assets $578.3  (a)$ 73.6 $ 2.0 $66.9 $ 63.5 $ 81.2 $ 68.9 $ 80.1 
Obligations Under  Operating
Leases:
Noncurrent Liability $492.8  $ 61.3 $ 1.3 $52.4 $ 48.9 $ 68.6 $ 62.2 $ 77.7 
Liability Due Within One Year 97.6 14.0 0.9 15.1 15.5 13.1 6.9 8.1 
Total Obligations Under  Operating
Leases $590.4  (b)$ 75.3 $ 2.2 $67.5 $ 64.4 $ 81.7 $ 69.1 $ 85.8 
(a)    Amount excludes $528 thousand and $11 million of Operating Lease Assets classified as Assets Held for Sale on the balance sheet for
the years ended December  31, 2022 and 2021, respectively . See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional
information.
(b)    Amount excludes $578 thousa nd and $11 millio n of Obligations Under Operating Leases classified as Liabilities Held for Sale on the
balance sheet for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively . See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7
for additional information.
Future minimum lease payments consisted of the following as of December 31, 2022:
Finance Leases AEP  (a)AEP
Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
2023 $ 67.8 $ 8.3 $ — $ 9.6 $ 9.2 $ 5.4 $ 3.8 $ 12.4 
2024 71.4 7.2 — 8.8 12.1 4.6 3.3 16.5 
2025 40.9 5.5 — 7.5 6.3 3.2 2.5 6.1 
2026 24.9 4.4 — 2.9 3.9 2.6 2.2 2.8 
2027 19.2 3.5 — 1.8 3.4 2.1 1.8 2.4 
After 2027 32.6 5.5 — 2.8 7.6 3.4 3.7 5.6 
Total Futur e Minimum Lease
Payments 256.8  34.4 — 33.4 42.5 21.3 17.3 45.8 
Less: Imputed Interest 31.4 4.3 — 4.1 8.5 2.4 2.3 3.6 
Estimated Pr esent Value of Futur e
Minimum Lease Payments $225.4  $ 30.1 $ — $ 29.3 $ 34.0 $ 18.9 $ 15.0 $ 42.2 
(a)    Amount exclu des $369 thousand of Obligations Under Finance Leases class ified as Liabilities Held for Sale on the balance sheet. See
“Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional information.
372
Operating Leases AEP  (a)AEP
Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
2023 $138.5  $ 32.3 $ 1.4 $ 17.5 $ 18.8 $ 16.4 $ 11.5 $ 14.4 
2024 125.7  29.7 0.9 14.6 17.7 14.9 10.7 12.7 
2025 86.6 13.1 0.4 11.8 9.2 13.2 9.5 11.4 
2026 75.5 10.9 0.2 10.3 8.3 12.0 8.6 10.2 
2027 65.6 8.3 — 9.1 7.5 10.7 7.8 8.8 
After 2027 352.0  11.7 — 19.2 9.8 15.7 116.4 141.8  
Total Futur e Minimum Lease
Payments 843.9  106.0  2.9 82.5 71.3 82.9 164.5  199.3  
Less: Imputed Interest 178.4  9.6 0.1 8.4 6.4 9.1 56.3 70.7 
Estimated Pr esent Value of Futur e
Minimum Lease Payments $665.5  $ 96.4 $ 2.8 $ 74.1 $ 64.9 $ 73.8 $108.2  $ 128.6  
(a)    Amount excludes $ 578 thousand of Obligations Under Operating Leases classified as Liabilities Held for Sale on the balance sheet. See
“Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional information.
Master Lease Agreements (Applies to all Registrants except AEPTCo)
The Registrants lease certain equipment under master lease agreements.  Under the lease agreements, the lessor is
guaranteed a residual value up to a stated percentage of the equipment cost at the end of the lease term. If the actual fair
value of the leased equipment is below the guaranteed residual value at the end of the lease term, the Registrants are
committed to pay the difference between the actual fair value and the residual value guarantee.  Historically, at the end
of the lease term the fair value has been in excess of the amount guaranteed.  As of December 31, 2022, the maximum
potential loss by the Registrants for these lease agreements assuming the fair value of the equipment is zero at the end
of the lease term was as follows:
CompanyMaximum
Potential Loss
(in millions)
AEP $ 46.0 
AEP Texas 11.1 
APCo 6.1 
I&M 4.4 
OPCo 7.6 
PSO 4.8 
SWEPCo 5.3 
AEPRO Boat and Barge Leases (Applies to AEP)
In 2015, AEP sold its commercial barge transportation subsidiary, AEPRO, to a nonaffiliated party. Certain boat and
barge leases acquired by the nonaffiliated party are subject to an AEP guarantee in favor of the respective lessors,
ensuring future payments under such leases with maturities up to 2027. As of December 31, 2022, the maximum
potential amount of future payments required under the guaranteed leases was $27 million. Under the terms of certain
of the arrangements, upon the lessors exercising their rights after an event of default by the nonaffiliated party, AEP is
entitled to enter into new lease arrangements as a lessee that would have substantially the same terms as the existing
leases. Alternatively, for the arrangements with one of the lessors, upon an event of default by the nonaffiliated party
and the lessor exercising its rights, payment to the lessor would allow AEP to step into the lessor’s rights as well as
obtaining title to the assets. Under either situation, AEP would have the ability to utilize the assets in the normal course
of barging operations. AEP would also have the right to sell the acquired assets for which it obtained title. As of
December 31, 2022, AEP’s boat and barge lease guarantee liability was $2 million, of which $1 million was recorded in
Other Current Liabilities and $1 million was recorded in Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities on AEP’s
balance sheet.
373
In February 2020, the nonaffiliated party filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy. The party entered into a restructuring support
agreement and has announced it expects to continue their operations as normal. In March 2020, the bankruptcy court
approved the party’s recapitalization plan. In April 2020, the nonaffiliated party emerged from bankruptcy.
Management has determined that it is reasonably possible that enforcement of AEP’s liability for future payments under
these leases will be exercised within the next twelve months. In such an event, if AEP is unable to sell or incorporate
any of the acquired assets into its fleet operations, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact
financial condition.
Lessor Activity
The Registrants’ lessor activity was immaterial as of and for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022 and
December 31, 2021, respectively.
374
14.  FINANCING ACTIVITIES
The disclosures in this note apply to all Registrants, unless indicated otherwise.
Common Stock (Applies to AEP)
The following table is a reconciliation of common stock share activity:
Shares of AEP Common Stock Issued Held in Treasury
Balance, December 31, 2019 514,373,631 20,204,160 
Issued 2,434,723 — 
Balance, December 31, 2020 516,808,354 20,204,160 
Issued 7,607,821 — 
Balance, December 31, 2021 524,416,175 20,204,160 
Issued 683,146 — 
Treasury Stock Reissued — (8,970,920)(a)
Balance, December 31, 2022 525,099,321 11,233,240 
(a)Reissued Treasury Stock used to fulfill share commitments related to AEP’s Equity Units. See “Equity
Units” section below for additional information.
ATM Program
In 2020, AEP filed a prospectus supplement and executed an Equity Distribution Agreement, pursuant to which AEP
may sell, from time to time, up to an aggregate of $1 billion of its common stock through an ATM offering program,
including an equity forward sales component. The compensation paid to the selling agents by AEP may be up to 2% of
the gross offering proceeds of the shares. There were no issuances under the ATM program for the year ended
December 31, 2022.
375
Long-term Debt
The following table details long-term debt outstanding:
Weighted-Average Interest Rate Ranges as of Outstanding as of
Interest Rate as of December 31, December 31,
Company Maturity December 31, 2022 2022 2021 2022 2021
AEP (in millions)
Senior Unsecured Notes 2022-2052 3.96% 0.75%-7.00% 0.61%-7.00% $ 29,486.2 $ 27,497.3 
Pollution Control Bonds (a) 2022-2036 (b) 2.76% 0.63%-4.55% 0.19%-4.55% 1,705.3 1,804.5 
Notes Payable – Nonaffiliated (c) 2022-2032 4.29% 0.93%-6.37% 0.79%-6.37% 269.7 211.3 
Securitization Bonds 2023-2029 (d) 2.91% 2.01%-3.77% 2.01%-3.77% 487.8 603.5 
Spent Nuclear Fuel Obligation (e) 285.6 281.3 
Junior Subordinated Notes (f) 2024-2027 2.35% 1.30%-3.88% 1.30%-3.88% 2,381.3 2,373.0 
Other Long-term Debt 2022-2059 5.52% 1.15%-13.72% 0.91%-13.72% 1,006.7 683.6 
Total Long-term Debt Outstanding (g) $ 35,622.6 $ 33,454.5 
AEP Texas
Senior Unsecured Notes 2023-2052 4.06% 2.10%-6.76% 2.10%-6.76% $ 4,702.7 $ 4,135.5 
Pollution Control Bonds 2023-2030 (b) 3.42% 0.90%-4.55% 0.90%-4.55% 440.2 439.9 
Securitization Bonds 2024-2029 (d) 2.50% 2.06%-2.84% 2.06%-2.84% 314.4 404.7 
Other Long-term Debt 2025-2059 5.67% 4.50%-5.67% 1.35%-4.50% 200.5 200.7 
Total Long-term Debt Outstanding $ 5,657.8 $ 5,180.8 
AEPTCo
Senior Unsecured Notes 2023-2052 3.83% 2.75%-5.52% 2.75%-5.52% $ 4,782.8 $ 4,343.9 
Total Long-term Debt Outstanding $ 4,782.8 $ 4,343.9 
APCo
Senior Unsecured Notes 2025-2050 4.68% 2.70%-7.00% 2.70%-7.00% $ 4,581.4 $ 4,083.7 
Pollution Control Bonds (a) 2024-2036 (b) 2.74% 0.63%-3.80% 0.19%-2.75% 429.4 529.5 
Securitization Bonds 2023-2028 (d) 3.67% 2.01%-3.77% 2.01%-3.77% 173.3 198.8 
Other Long-term Debt 2023-2026 5.34% 4.84%-13.72% 1.24%-13.72% 226.4 126.9 
Total Long-term Debt Outstanding $ 5,410.5 $ 4,938.9 
I&M
Senior Unsecured Notes 2023-2051 4.19% 3.20%-6.05% 3.20%-6.05% $ 2,597.3 $ 2,595.5 
Pollution Control Bonds (a) 2025 (b) 2.49% 0.75%-3.05% 0.75%-3.05% 189.0 188.7 
Notes Payable – Nonaffiliated (c) 2023-2027 4.26% 0.93%-5.93% 0.79%-1.24% 183.8 122.2 
Spent Nuclear Fuel Obligation (e) 285.6 281.3 
Other Long-term Debt 2025 6.00% 6.00% 6.00% 5.1 7.3 
Total Long-term Debt Outstanding $ 3,260.8 $ 3,195.0 
OPCo
Senior Unsecured Notes 2030-2051 3.87% 1.63%-6.60% 1.63%-6.60% $ 2,969.7 $ 2,967.8 
Other Long-term Debt 2028 1.15% 1.15% 1.15% 0.6 0.7 
Total Long-term Debt Outstanding $ 2,970.3 $ 2,968.5 
PSO
Senior Unsecured Notes 2025-2051 3.74% 2.20%-6.63% 2.20%-6.63% $ 1,785.6 $ 1,785.5 
Other Long-term Debt 2025-2027 5.69% 3.00%-5.75% 1.47%-3.00% 127.2 128.0 
Total Long-term Debt Outstanding $ 1,912.8 $ 1,913.5 
SWEPCo
Senior Unsecured Notes 2026-2051 3.57% 1.65%-6.20% 1.65%-6.20% $ 3,297.6 $ 3,295.1 
Notes Payable – Nonaffiliated (c) 2024-2032 5.38% 4.58%-6.37% 4.58%-6.37% 55.9 59.1 
Other Long-term Debt 2028 4.68% 4.68% 4.68% 38.1 41.0 
Total Long-term Debt Outstanding $ 3,391.6 $ 3,395.2 
(a)For certain series of Pollution Control Bonds, interest rates are subject to periodic adjustment.  Certain series may be purchased on demand at periodic
interest adjustment dates.  Letters of credit from banks and insurance policies support certain series. Consequently, these bonds have been classified for
maturity purposes as Long-term Debt Due Within One Year - Nonaffiliated on the balance sheets.
(b)Certain Pollution Control Bonds are subject to redemption earlier than the maturity date.
(c)Notes payable represent outstanding promissory notes issued under term loan agreements and credit agreements with a number of banks and other financial
institutions. At expiration, all notes then issued and outstanding are due and payable. Interest rates are both fixed and variable. Variable rates generally relate
to specified short-term interest rates.
(d)Dates represent the scheduled final payment dates for the securitization bonds. The legal maturity date is one to two years later. These bonds have been
classified for maturity and repayment purposes based on the scheduled final payment date.
(e)Spent Nuclear Fuel Obligation consists of a liability along with accrued interest for disposal of SNF. See “Spent Nuclear Fuel Disposal” section of Note 6
for additional information.
(f)See “Equity Units” section below for additional information.
(g)Amount excludes $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion of Total Long-term Debt Outstanding classified as Liabilities Held for Sale on the balance sheet as of
December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional information.
376
As of December 31, 2022, outstanding long-term debt was payable as follows:
AEP AEP  Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
2023 $1,996.4  $ 278.5  $ 60.0 $ 251.8  $ 341.8  $ 0.1 $ 0.5 $ 6.2 
2024 1,525.2  (a) 96.0 95.0 113.5 56.4 0.1 0.6 6.2 
2025 3,253.9  (b) 524.5  90.0 673.3  220.5  0.1 250.6  6.2 
2026 1,554.0  75.0 425.0  30.9 8.5 0.1 50.6 906.2  
2027 2,211.9 25.6 — 355.6  1.7 0.1 0.3 6.2 
After 2027 25,388.8  4,706.4  4,166.0  4,031.8  2,660.6  3,000.1  1,625.0  2,488.2  
Principal Amount 35,930.2  5,706.0  4,836.0  5,456.9  3,289.5  3,000.6  1,927.6  3,419.2  
Unamortized Discount, Net
and Debt Issuance Costs (307.6 ) (48.2) (53.2) (46.4) (28.7) (30.3) (14.8) (27.6)
Total Long-term Debt
Outstanding $35,622.6  (c)$5,657.8  $4,782.8  $5,410.5  $3,260.8  $2,970.3  $1,912.8  $3,391.6  
(a)    Amount includes $ 805 million of Junior Subordinated Notes. See “Equity Units” section below for additional information.
(b)    Amount includes $ 850 million of Junior Subordinated Notes. See “Equity Units” section below for additional information.
(c)    Amount excludes $1.2 billion  of Total Long-term  Debt Outstanding classi fied as Liabilities Held for Sale on the balance sheet as of
December 31, 2022. See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional information .
Long-term Debt Subsequent Events
In January and February 2023, I&M retired $8 million and $8 million, respectively, of Notes Payable related to DCC
Fuel.
In January 2023, PSO issued $475 million of 5.25% Senior Unsecured Notes due in 2033.
In February 2023, AEP Texas retired $12 million of Securitization Bonds.
In February 2023, APCo retired $13 million of Securitization Bonds.
Equity Units (Applies to AEP)
2020 Equity Units
In August 2020, AEP issued 17 million Equity Units initially in the form of corporate units, at a stated amount of $50
per unit, for a total stated amount of $850 million. Net proceeds from the issuance were approximately $833 million.
The proceeds were used to support AEP’s overall capital expenditure plans.
Each corporate unit represents a 1/20 undivided beneficial ownership interest in $1,000 principal amount of AEP’s
1.30% Junior Subordinated Notes (notes) due in 2025 and a forward equity purchase contract which settles after three
years in August 2023. The notes are expected to be remarketed in 2023, at which time the interest rate will reset at the
then-current market rate. Investors may choose to remarket their notes to receive the remarketing proceeds and use
those funds to settle the forward equity purchase contract, or accept the remarketed debt and use other funds for the
equity purchase. If the remarketing is unsuccessful, investors have the right to put their notes to AEP at a price equal to
the principal. The Equity Units carry an annual distribution rate of 6.125%, which is comprised of a quarterly coupon
rate of interest of 1.30% and a quarterly forward equity purchase contract payment of 4.825%.
Each forward equity purchase contract obligates the holder to purchase, and AEP to sell, for $50 a number of shares in
common stock in accordance with the conversion ratios set forth below (subject to an anti-dilution adjustment):
•If the AEP common stock market price is equal to or greater than $99.95: 0.5003 shares per contract.
•If the AEP common stock market price is less than $99.95 but greater than $83.29: a number of shares per
contract equal to $50 divided by the applicable market price. The holder receives a variable number of shares at
$50.
•If the AEP common stock market price is less than or equal to $83.29: 0.6003 shares per contract.
377
A holder’s ownership interest in the notes is pledged to AEP to secure the holder’s obligation under the related forward
equity purchase contract. If a holder of the forward equity purchase contract chooses at any time to no longer be a
holder of the notes, such holder’s obligation under the forward equity purchase contract must be secured by a U.S.
Treasury security which must be equal to the aggregate principal amount of the notes.
At the time of issuance, the $850 million of notes were recorded within Long-term Debt on the balance sheets. The
present value of the purchase contract payments of $121 million were recorded in Deferred Credits and Other
Noncurrent Liabilities with a current portion in Other Current Liabilities at the time of issuance, representing the
obligation to make forward equity contract payments, with an offsetting reduction to Paid-in Capital. The difference
between the face value and present value of the purchase contract payments will be accreted to Interest Expense on the
statements of income over the three year period ending in 2023. The liability recorded for the contract payments is
considered non-cash and excluded from the statements of cash flows. Until settlement of the forward equity purchase
contract, earnings per-share dilution resulting from the equity unit issuance will be determined under the treasury stock
method. The maximum amount of shares AEP will be required to issue to settle the purchase contract is 10,205,100
shares (subject to an anti-dilution adjustment).
2019 Equity Units
In March 2019, AEP issued 16.1 million Equity Units initially in the form of corporate units, at a stated amount of $50
per unit, for a total stated amount of $805 million. Net proceeds from the issuance were approximately $785 million.
The proceeds were used to support AEP’s overall capital expenditure plans including the acquisition of Sempra
Renewables LLC.
Each corporate unit represents a 1/20 undivided beneficial ownership interest in $1,000 principal amount of AEP’s
3.40% Junior Subordinated Notes (notes) due in 2024 and a forward equity purchase contract which settled after three
years in 2022. In January 2022, AEP successfully remarketed the notes on behalf of holders of the corporate units and
did not directly receive any proceeds therefrom. Instead, the holders of the corporate units used the debt remarketing
proceeds to settle the forward equity purchase contract with AEP. The interest rate on the notes was reset to 2.031%
with the maturity remaining in 2024. In March 2022, AEP issued 8,970,920 shares of AEP common stock and received
proceeds totaling $805 million under the settlement of the forward equity purchase contract. AEP common stock held in
treasury was used to settle the forward equity purchase contract.
Debt Covenants (Applies to AEP and AEPTCo)
Covenants in AEPTCo’s note purchase agreements and indenture limit the amount of contractually-defined priority
debt (which includes a further sub-limit of $50 million of secured debt) to 10% of consolidated tangible net assets.
AEPTCo’s contractually-defined priority debt was 1.9% of consolidated tangible net assets as of December 31, 2022.
The method for calculating the consolidated tangible net assets is contractually-defined in the note purchase agreement.
Dividend Restrictions
Utility Subsidiaries’ Restrictions
Parent depends on its utility subsidiaries to pay dividends to shareholders. AEP utility subsidiaries pay dividends to
Parent provided funds are legally available. Various financing arrangements and regulatory requirements may impose
certain restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries to transfer funds to Parent in the form of dividends.
All of the dividends declared by AEP’s utility subsidiaries that provide transmission or local distribution services are
subject to a Federal Power Act requirement that prohibits the payment of dividends out of capital accounts in certain
circumstances; payment of dividends is generally allowed out of retained earnings. The Federal Power Act also creates
a reserve on earnings attributable to hydroelectric generation plants. Because of their ownership of such plants, this
reserve applies to APCo and I&M.
378
Certain AEP subsidiaries have credit agreements that contain covenants that limit their debt to capitalization ratio to
67.5%. The method for calculating outstanding debt and capitalization is contractually-defined in the credit agreements.
The most restrictive dividend limitation for certain AEP subsidiaries is through the Federal Power Act restriction, while
for other AEP subsidiaries the most restrictive dividend limitation is through the credit agreements. As of December 31,
2022, the maximum amount of restricted net assets of AEP’s subsidiaries that may not be distributed to the Parent in the
form of a loan, advance or dividend was $16.2 billion.
The Federal Power Act restriction limits the ability of the AEP subsidiaries owning hydroelectric generation to pay
dividends out of retained earnings. Additionally, the credit agreement covenant restrictions can limit the ability of the
AEP subsidiaries to pay dividends out of retained earnings. As of December 31, 2022, the amount of any such
restrictions were as follows:
AEP AEP  Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Restricted Retained
Earnings $3,023.0  (a)$1,105.7  $ — $ 543.1  $ 688.2  $ — $ — $ 373.0  
(a)    Includes the restrictions of consolidated and non-consolidated subsidiaries.
Parent Restrictions (Applies to AEP)
The holders of AEP’s common stock are entitled to receive the dividends declared by the Board of Directors provided
funds are legally available for such dividends.  Parent’s income primarily derives from common stock equity in the
earnings of its utility subsidiaries.
Pursuant to the leverage restrictions in credit agreements, AEP must maintain a percentage of debt-to-total
capitalization at a level that does not exceed 67.5%.  The method for calculating outstanding debt and capitalization is
contractually-defined in the credit agreements.  As of December 31, 2022, AEP had $8.1 billion of available retained
earnings to pay dividends to common shareholders. AEP paid $1.6 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion of dividends to
common shareholders for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
379
Lines of Credit and Short-term Debt (Applies to AEP)
AEP uses its commercial paper program to meet the short-term borrowing needs of its subsidiaries.  The program funds
a Utility Money Pool, which funds AEP’s utility subsidiaries; a Nonutility Money Pool, which funds certain AEP
nonutility subsidiaries; and the short-term debt requirements of subsidiaries that are not participating in either money
pool for regulatory or operational reasons, as direct borrowers.  As of December 31, 2022, AEP had $5 billion in
revolving credit facilities to support its commercial paper program.  Securitized Debt for Receivables, for the year
ended 2022, had a weighted-average interest rate of 1.84% and a maximum amount outstanding of $750 million. The
commercial paper program, for the year ended 2022, had a weighted-average interest rate of 2.74% and a maximum
amount outstanding of $2.9 billion. AEP’s outstanding short-term debt was as follows:
December 31,
2022 2021
Company Type of DebtOutstanding
AmountInterest
Rate (a)Outstanding
AmountInterest
Rate (a)
(in millions) (in millions)
AEP Securitized Debt for Receivables (b) $ 750.0 4.67 %$ 750.0 0.19 %
AEP Commercial Paper 2,862.2 4.80 % 1,364.0 0.34 %
AEP Term Loan — — % 500.0 0.81 %
AEP Term Loan 125.0 5.17 % — — %
AEP Term Loan 150.0 5.17 % — — %
AEP Term Loan 100.0 5.23 % — — %
AEP Term Loan 125.0 4.87 % — — %
Total Short-term Debt $ 4,112.2 $ 2,614.0 
(a)    Weighted-average rate as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
(b)    Amount of securitized debt for receivables as accounted for under the “Transfers and Servicing” accounting
guidance.
Corporate Borrowing Program – AEP System (Applies to Registrant Subsidiaries)
The AEP System uses a corporate borrowing program to meet the short-term borrowing needs of AEP’s
subsidiaries.  The corporate borrowing program includes a Utility Money Pool, which funds AEP’s utility subsidiaries;
a Nonutility Money Pool, which funds certain AEP nonutility subsidiaries; and direct borrowing from AEP.  The AEP
System Utility Money Pool operates in accordance with the terms and conditions of its agreement filed with the
FERC.  The amounts of outstanding loans to (borrowings from) the Utility Money Pool as of December 31, 2022 and
2021 are included in Advances to Affiliates and Advances from Affiliates, respectively, on the Registrant Subsidiaries’
balance sheets.  The Utility Money Pool participants’ money pool activity and corresponding authorized borrowing
limits are described in the following tables:
Year Ended December 31, 2022:
Maximum Average Net Loans to
Borrowings Maximum Borrowings Average (Borrowings from) Authorized
from the Loans to the from the Loans to the the Utility Money Short-term
Utility Utility Utility Utility Pool as of Borrowing
Company Money Pool Money Pool Money Pool Money PoolDecember 31, 2022 Limit
(in millions)
AEP Texas $ 348.8 $ 652.3 $ 173.3 $ 247.8 $ (96.5) $ 500.0 
AEPTCo 480.2 137.0 189.4 28.9 (199.9)(a) 820.0 (b)
APCo 438.4 214.2 181.7 45.4 (162.4) 500.0 
I&M 318.6 23.0 105.2 22.3 (226.9) 500.0 
OPCo 262.5 246.1 101.3 86.9 (172.9) 500.0 
PSO 364.2 432.5 224.5 402.8 (364.2) 400.0 
SWEPCo 358.4 156.6 219.3 109.7 (310.7) 400.0 
380
Year Ended December 31, 2021:
Maximum Average Net Loans to
Borrowings Maximum Borrowings Average (Borrowings from) Authorized
from the Loans to the from the Loans to the the Utility Money Short-term
Utility Utility Utility Utility Pool as of Borrowing
Company Money Pool Money Pool Money Pool Money PoolDecember 31, 2021 Limit
(in millions)
AEP Texas $ 355.5 $ 104.7 $ 172.5 $ 40.0 $ (26.9) $ 500.0 
AEPTCo 444.9 117.3 189.1 29.7 (108.0)(a) 820.0 (b)
APCo 199.3 616.9 87.5 118.3 (178.5) 500.0 
I&M 166.5 368.2 110.4 67.7 (71.8) 500.0 
OPCo 259.2 622.9 61.6 127.2 42.0 500.0 
PSO 267.7 747.3 134.0 113.1 (72.3) 400.0 
SWEPCo 280.3 561.9 142.4 287.4 153.8 400.0 
(a)    Amount excludes $4 million of Advances to Affiliates classified as Assets Held for Sale and $1 million of Advances from
Affiliates classified as Liabilities Held for Sale on the AEP Transco balance sheet for the years ended December 31, 2022
and 2021, respectively. See “Dispositions of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional information.
(b)    Amount represents the combined authorized short-term borrowing limit the State Transcos have from FERC or state
regulatory commissions.
The activity in the above tables does not include short-term lending activity of certain AEP nonutility subsidiaries. AEP
Texas’ wholly-owned subsidiary, AEP Texas North Generation Company, LLC and SWEPCo’s wholly-owned
subsidiary, Mutual Energy SWEPCo, LLC participate in the Nonutility Money Pool. The amounts of outstanding loans
to the Nonutility Money Pool as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 are included in Advances to Affiliates on each
subsidiaries’ balance sheets. The Nonutility Money Pool participants’ money pool activity is described in the following
tables:
Year Ended December 31, 2022:
Maximum Loans Average Loans Loans to the Nonutility
to the Nonutility to the Nonutility Money Pool as of
Company Money Pool Money Pool December 31, 2022
(in millions)
AEP Texas $ 7.0 $ 6.8 $ 6.9 
SWEPCo 2.1 2.1 2.1 
Year Ended December 31, 2021:
Maximum Loans Average Loans Loans to the Nonutility
to the Nonutility to the Nonutility Money Pool as of
Company Money Pool Money Pool December 31, 2021
(in millions)
AEP Texas $ 7.1 $ 6.9 $ 6.9 
SWEPCo 2.1 2.1 2.1 
381
AEP has a direct financing relationship with AEPTCo to meet its short-term borrowing needs. The amounts of
outstanding loans to and borrowings from AEP as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 are included in Advances to
Affiliates and Advances from Affiliates, respectively, on AEPTCo’s balance sheets. AEPTCo’s direct financing
activities with AEP and corresponding authorized borrowing limits are described in the following tables:
Year Ended December 31, 2022:
Maximum Maximum Average Average Borrowings from Loans to Authorized
Borrowings Loans Borrowings Loans AEP as of AEP as of Short-term
from AEP to AEP from AEP to AEPDecember 31,
2022December 31,
2022Borrowing
Limit
(in millions)
$ 52.4 $ 141.8 $ 6.7 $ 57.5 $ 29.4 $ — $ 50.0 (a)
Year Ended December 31, 2021:
Maximum Maximum Average Average Borrowings from Loans to Authorized
Borrowings Loans Borrowings Loans AEP as of AEP as of Short-term
from AEP to AEP from AEP to AEPDecember 31,
2021December 31,
2021Borrowing
Limit
(in millions)
$ 14.6 $ 224.2 $ 1.8 $ 118.0 $ 1.5 $ 12.7 $ 50.0 (a)
(a)    Amount represents the combined authorized short-term borrowing limit the State Transcos have from FERC or state
regulatory commissions.
The maximum and minimum interest rates for funds either borrowed from or loaned to the Utility Money Pool are
summarized in the following table:
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
Maximum Interest Rate 5.28 % 0.48 % 2.70 %
Minimum Interest Rate 0.10 % 0.02 % 0.27 %
The average interest rates for funds borrowed from and loaned to the Utility Money Pool are summarized in the
following table:
Average Interest Rate for Funds Borrowed
from the Utility Money Pool for the
Years Ended December 31,Average Interest Rate for Funds Loaned
to the Utility Money Pool for the
Years Ended December 31,
Company 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
AEP Texas 1.08 % 0.33 % 1.51 % 1.99 % 0.26 % 0.81 %
AEPTCo 1.81 % 0.32 % 1.29 % 2.47 % 0.10 % 1.99 %
APCo 2.34 % 0.41 % 2.12 % 2.39 % 0.25 % 0.85 %
I&M 2.57 % 0.33 % 1.07 % 2.20 % 0.23 % 1.18 %
OPCo 3.51 % 0.27 % 0.99 % 1.22 % 0.14 % 2.06 %
PSO 2.65 % 0.34 % 0.92 % 0.75 % 0.07 % 1.95 %
SWEPCo 2.80 % 0.26 % 1.27 % 0.55 % 0.18 % — %
382
Maximum, minimum and average interest rates for funds loaned to the Nonutility Money Pool are summarized in the
following table:
 Maximum Interest Rate Minimum Interest Rate Average Interest Rate
Year Ended  for Funds Loaned to  for Funds Loaned to  for Funds Loaned to
December 31, Company the Nonutility Money Pool the Nonutility Money Pool the Nonutility Money Pool
2022 AEP Texas  5.28 % 0.46 % 2.23 %
2022 SWEPCo  5.28 % 0.46 % 2.23 %
2021 AEP Texas 0.58 % 0.21 % 0.37 %
2021 SWEPCo 0.58 % 0.21 % 0.37 %
2020 AEP Texas 2.70 % 0.27 % 1.18 %
2020 SWEPCo 2.70 % 0.27 % 1.18 %
AEPTCo’s maximum, minimum and average interest rates for funds either borrowed from or loaned to AEP are
summarized in the following table:
  Maximum  Minimum  Maximum  Minimum  Average  Average
  Interest Rate Interest Rate Interest Rate Interest Rate Interest Rate Interest Rate
  for Funds  for Funds  for Funds for Funds for Funds  for Funds
Year Ended Borrowed from Borrowed from Loaned to Loaned to Borrowed from Loaned to
December 31, AEP  AEP AEP  AEP  AEP  AEP
2022  5.28 % 0.46 % 5.28 % 0.46 % 2.08 % 2.07 %
2021  0.86 % 0.25 % 0.86 % 0.25 % 0.38 % 0.35 %
2020 2.70 % 0.27 % 2.70 % 0.27 % 1.20 % 1.13 %
Interest expense related to short-term borrowing activities with the Utility Money Pool, Nonutility Money Pool and
direct borrowing financing relationship are included in Interest Expense on each of the Registrant Subsidiaries’
statements of income. The Registrant Subsidiaries incurred interest expense for all short-term borrowing activities as
follows:
Years Ended December 31,
Company 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
AEP Texas $ 0.9 $ 0.3 $ 0.8 
AEPTCo 3.5 0.6 1.5 
APCo 5.6 0.1 2.8 
I&M 2.9 0.2 1.4 
OPCo 2.3 0.1 1.8 
PSO 5.5 0.3 0.6 
SWEPCo 4.9 0.3 1.5 
Interest income related to short-term lending activities with the Utility Money Pool, Nonutility Money Pool and direct
borrowing financing relationship are included in Interest Income on each of the Registrant Subsidiaries’ statements of
income. The Registrant Subsidiaries earned interest income for all short-term lending activities as follows:
Years Ended December 31,
Company 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
AEP Texas $ 2.6 $ 0.1 $ 0.7 
AEPTCo 1.6 0.4 2.4 
APCo 2.8 0.3 0.7 
I&M 0.5 0.2 0.2 
OPCo 0.4 0.1 — 
PSO 0.3 — 0.1 
SWEPCo 0.2 0.1 — 
383
Credit Facilities
See “Letters of Credit” section of Note 6 for additional information.
Securitized Accounts Receivables – AEP Credit (Applies to AEP)
AEP Credit has a receivables securitization agreement with bank conduits. Under the securitization agreement, AEP
Credit receives financing from the bank conduits for the interest in the receivables AEP Credit acquires from affiliated
utility subsidiaries.  These securitized transactions allow AEP Credit to repay its outstanding debt obligations, continue
to purchase the operating companies’ receivables and accelerate AEP Credit’s cash collections.
AEP Credit’s receivables securitization agreement provides a commitment of $750 million from bank conduits to
purchase receivables and was amended in September 2021 to include a $125 million and a $625 million facility. The
$125 million facility was renewed in September 2022 and amended to extend the expiration date to September 2024.
The $625 million facility also expires in September 2024. As of December 31, 2022, the affiliated utility subsidiaries,
with the exception of SWEPCo, were in compliance with all requirements under the agreement. SWEPCo temporarily
eased credit policies from August 2022 through October 2022 to assist customers with higher than normal bills driven
by increased fuel costs and, in turn, experienced higher than normal aged receivables. In response, in January 2023,
AEP Credit amended its receivables securitization agreement to increase the eligibility criteria related to their aged
receivables requirements to bring SWEPCo back into compliance.
Accounts receivable information for AEP Credit was as follows:
Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
(dollars in millions)
Effective Interest Rates on Securitization of Accounts Receivable 1.84 % 0.19 % 0.85 %
Net Uncollectible Accounts Receivable Written Off $ 29.5 $ 26.5 $ 15.3 
December 31,
2022 2021
(in millions)
Accounts Receivable Retained Interest and Pledged as Collateral
Less Uncollectible Accounts $ 1,167.7 $ 995.2 
Short-term – Securitized Debt of Receivables 750.0 750.0 
Delinquent Securitized Accounts Receivable 44.2 57.9 
Bad Debt Reserves Related to Securitization 39.7 42.8 
Unbilled Receivables Related to Securitization 360.9 307.1 
AEP Credit’s delinquent customer accounts receivable represent accounts greater than 30 days past due.
Securitized Accounts Receivables – AEP Credit (Applies to Registrant Subsidiaries, except AEP Texas and AEPTCo)
Under this sale of receivables arrangement, the Registrant Subsidiaries sell, without recourse, certain of their customer
accounts receivable and accrued unbilled revenue balances to AEP Credit and are charged a fee based on AEP Credit’s
financing costs, administrative costs and uncollectible accounts experience for each Registrant Subsidiary’s receivables.
APCo does not have regulatory authority to sell its West Virginia accounts receivable.  KPCo ceased selling accounts
receivable to AEP Credit in the first quarter of 2022, based on the pending sale to Liberty. As a result, in the first
quarter of 2022, KPCo recorded an allowance for uncollectible accounts on its balance sheet for those receivables no
longer sold to AEP Credit. The costs of customer accounts receivable sold are reported in Other Operation expense on
the Registrant Subsidiaries’ statements of income.  The Registrant Subsidiaries manage and service their customer
accounts receivable, which are sold to AEP Credit. AEP Credit securitizes the eligible receivables for the operating
companies and retains the remainder.
384
The amount of accounts receivable and accrued unbilled revenues under the sale of receivables agreement were:
December 31,
Company 2022 2021
(in millions)
APCo $ 194.4 $ 153.1 
I&M 166.9 156.9 
OPCo 478.6 392.7 
PSO 155.5 114.5 
SWEPCo 194.0 153.0 
The fees paid to AEP Credit for customer accounts receivable sold were:
Years Ended December 31,
Company 2022 2021 (a) 2020
(in millions)
APCo $ 9.4 $ 4.9 $ 5.2 
I&M 9.7 7.0 7.9 
OPCo 29.8 8.3 24.1 
PSO 7.4 3.4 4.8 
SWEPCo 9.4 5.4 6.7 
(a) In 2021, due to the successful collection of accounts receivable balances during the COVID-19 pandemic,
the allowance for doubtful accounts was reduced, resulting in the issuance of credits to offset the higher fees
previously paid and to lower subsequent fees paid.
The proceeds on the sale of receivables to AEP Credit were:
Years Ended December 31,
Company 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
APCo $ 1,552.9 $ 1,324.1 $ 1,272.9 
I&M 2,045.6 1,927.0 1,891.8 
OPCo 3,101.3 2,458.5 2,366.2 
PSO 1,809.5 1,406.4 1,221.0 
SWEPCo 1,858.4 1,636.1 1,593.8 
385
15.  STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION
The disclosures in this note apply to AEP only. The impact of AEP’s share-based compensation plans is insignificant to
the financial statements of the Registrant Subsidiaries.
Awards under the American Electric Power System 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan (2015 LTIP), which replaced prior
long-term incentive plans effective April 2015, may be granted to employees and directors. The 2015 LTIP was
subsequently amended in September 2016. The 2015 LTIP provides for a maximum of 10 million AEP common shares
to be available for grant to eligible employees and directors. As of December 31, 2022, 5,249,391 shares remained
available for issuance under the 2015 LTIP. No new awards may be granted under the Prior Plan. Awards granted under
the 2015 LTIP awards may be made in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted
stock units, performance shares, performance units, cash-based awards and other stock-based awards. Shares issued
pursuant to a stock option or a stock appreciation right reduce the shares remaining available for grants under the 2015
LTIP by 0.286 of a share. Each share issued for any other award that settles in AEP stock reduces the shares remaining
available for grants under the 2015 LTIP by one share. Cash settled awards do not reduce the number of shares
remaining available under the 2015 LTIP. The following sections provide further information regarding each type of
stock-based compensation award granted under these plans.
Performance Shares
Performance units granted prior to 2017 were settled in cash rather than AEP common stock and did not reduce the
number of shares remaining available under the 2015 LTIP. Those performance units had a fair value upon vesting
equal to the average closing market price of AEP common stock for the last 20 trading days of the performance period.
Performance shares granted in and after 2017 are settled in AEP common stock and reduce the aggregate share
authorization. In all cases the number of performance shares held at the end of the three-year performance period is
multiplied by the performance score for such period to determine the actual number of performance shares that
participants realize. The performance score can range from 0% to 200% and is determined at the end of the
performance period based on performance measures, which include both performance and market conditions,
established for each grant at the beginning of the performance period by the Human Resources Committee of AEP’s
Board of Directors (HR Committee).
Certain employees must satisfy a minimum stock ownership requirement. If those employees have not met their stock
ownership requirement, a portion or all of their performance shares are mandatorily deferred as AEP career shares to
the extent needed to meet their stock ownership requirement.  AEP career shares are a form of non-qualified deferred
compensation that has a value equivalent to a share of AEP common stock.  AEP career shares are settled in AEP
common stock after the participant’s termination of employment.
AEP career shares are recorded in Paid-in Capital on the balance sheets. Amounts equivalent to cash dividends on both
performance shares and AEP career shares accrue as additional shares.  Management records compensation cost for
performance shares over an approximately three-year vesting period. Performance shares are recorded as mezzanine
equity on the balance sheets until the vesting date and compensation cost is calculated at fair value based on the
performance metrics for each grant. Performance shares granted in 2022, 2021 and 2020 have three performance
metrics: (a) three-year cumulative operating earnings per-share with a 50% weight, (b) total shareholder return with a
40% weight and (c) non-emitting generation capacity as a percentage of total owned and purchased capacity with a
10% weight. Performance shares granted in 2019 had two equally-weighted performance metrics: (a) three-year
cumulative operating earnings per-share and (b) total shareholder return. The three-year cumulative operating earnings
per-share and non-emitting generating capacity metrics are adjusted quarterly for changes in performance relative to the
metric approved by the HR Committee. The total shareholder return metric is measured relative to a peer group of
similar companies and is based on a third-party Monte Carlo valuation. The value related to this metric does not change
over the three-year vesting period.
386
The HR Committee awarded performance shares and reinvested dividends on outstanding performance shares and AEP
career shares as follows:
Years Ended December 31,
Performance Shares 2022 2021 2020
Awarded Shares (in thousands) 530.3 565.0 424.8 
Weighted-Average Share Fair Value at Grant Date $ 97.61 $ 81.02 $116.56 
Vesting Period (in years) 3 3 3
Performance Shares and AEP Career Shares
(Reinvested Dividends Portion)Years Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
Awarded Shares (in thousands) 63.3 74.5 73.4 
Weighted-Average Fair Value at Grant Date $ 98.73 $ 84.48 $ 84.87 
Vesting Period (in years) (a) (a) (a)
(a)The vesting period for the reinvested dividends on performance shares is equal to the remaining life of the
related performance shares.  Dividends on AEP career shares vest immediately when the dividend is awarded
but are not settled in AEP common stock until after the participant’s AEP employment ends.
Performance scores and final awards are determined and approved by the HR Committee in accordance with the pre-
established performance measures within approximately two months after the end of the performance period.
The certified performance scores and shares earned for the three-year periods were as follows:
Years Ended December 31,
Performance Shares 2022 2021 2020
Certified Performance Score 131.1 % 102.9 % 128.2 %
Performance Shares Earned 512,660 537,166 757,858 
Performance Shares Mandatorily Deferred as AEP Career Shares 28,282 14,613 13,614 
Performance Shares Voluntarily Deferred into the Incentive
Compensation Deferral Program 23,609 22,915 26,936 
Performance Shares to be Settled (a) 460,769 499,638 717,308 
(a)Performance shares settled in AEP common stock in the quarter following the end of the year shown.
The settlements were as follows:
Years Ended December 31,
Performance Shares and AEP Career Shares 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
AEP Common Stock Settlements for Performance Shares $ 43.2 $ 54.7 $ 75.4 
AEP Common Stock Settlements for Career Share Distributions 5.1 4.0 1.9 
387
A summary of the status of AEP’s nonvested Performance Shares as of December 31, 2022 and changes during the year
ended December 31, 2022 were as follows:
Nonvested Performance Shares SharesWeighted
Average
Grant Date
Fair Value
(in thousands)
Nonvested as of January 1, 2022 923.8 $ 96.15 
Awarded 530.3 97.61 
Dividends 45.5 98.73 
Vested (a) (395.8) 116.06 
Forfeited (91.6) 84.81 
Nonvested as of December 31, 2022 1,012.2 90.27 
(a)The vested Performance Shares will be converted to 461 thousand shares
based on the closing share price on the day before settlement.
Monte Carlo Valuation
AEP engages a third-party for a Monte Carlo valuation to calculate the fair value of the total shareholder return metric
for the performance shares awarded during and after 2017. The valuations use a lattice model and the expected
volatility assumptions used were the historical volatilities for AEP and the members of their peer group. The
assumptions used in the Monte Carlo valuations were as follows:
Years Ended December 31,
Assumptions 2022 2021 2020
Valuation Period (in years) (a) 2.86 2.88 2.87
Expected Volatility Minimum 25.92 % 25.87 % 13.67 %
Expected Volatility Maximum 40.82 % 39.90 % 28.15 %
Expected Volatility Average 31.09 % 31.01 % 16.39 %
Dividend Rate (b) — % — % — %
Risk Free Rate 1.64 % 0.19 % 1.40 %
(a) Period from award date to vesting date.
(b) Equivalent to reinvesting dividends.
Restricted Stock Units
The HR Committee grants restricted stock units (RSUs), which generally vest, subject to the participant’s continued
AEP employment, over at least three years in approximately equal annual increments.  The RSUs accrue dividends as
additional RSUs. The additional RSUs granted as dividends vest on the same date, subject to the participant’s continued
AEP employment, as the underlying RSUs. RSUs are converted into shares of AEP common stock upon vesting, except
the RSUs granted prior to 2017 to AEP’s executive officers which settled in cash. Executive officers are those officers
who are subject to the disclosure requirements set forth in Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. For RSUs
that settle in shares, compensation cost is measured at fair value on the grant date and recorded over the vesting
period.  Fair value is determined by multiplying the number of RSUs granted by the grant date market closing
price.  For RSUs that settled in cash, compensation cost was recorded over the vesting period and adjusted for changes
in fair value until vested.  The fair value at vesting was determined by multiplying the number of RSUs vested by the
20-day average closing price of AEP common stock.  The maximum contractual term of outstanding RSUs is
approximately 40 months from the grant date.
388
The HR Committee awarded RSUs, including additional units awarded as dividends, as follows:
Years Ended December 31,
Restricted Stock Units 2022 2021 2020
Awarded Units (in thousands) 290.4 280.0 268.7 
Weighted-Average Grant Date Fair Value $ 90.48 $ 80.39 $ 94.38 
The total fair value and total intrinsic value of restricted stock units vested were as follows:
Years Ended December 31,
Restricted Stock Units 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Fair Value of Restricted Stock Units Vested $ 17.8 $ 20.5 $ 22.9 
Intrinsic Value of Restricted Stock Units Vested (a) 20.3 22.0 25.2 
(a)Intrinsic value is calculated as market price at the vesting date.
A summary of the status of AEP’s nonvested RSUs as of December 31, 2022 and changes during the year ended
December 31, 2022 were as follows:
Nonvested Restricted Stock Units Shares/UnitsWeighted
Average
Grant Date
Fair Value
(in thousands)
Nonvested as of January 1, 2022 424.3 $ 84.86 
Awarded 290.4 90.48 
Vested (209.0) 85.15 
Forfeited (46.1) 85.80 
Nonvested as of December 31, 2022 459.6 88.05 
The total aggregate intrinsic value of nonvested RSUs as of December 31, 2022 was $44 million and the weighted-
average remaining contractual life was 1.8 years.
Other Stock-Based Plans
AEP also has a Stock Unit Accumulation Plan (SUAP) for Non-Employee Directors providing each non-employee
director with AEP stock units as a substantial portion of the compensation for their services as a director.  The number
of stock units provided is based on the closing price of AEP common stock on the last trading day of the quarter for
which the stock units were earned.  Amounts equivalent to cash dividends on the stock units accrue as additional AEP
stock units.  The stock units granted to non-employee directors are fully vested on their grant date.  Stock units are paid
to directors upon termination of their board service or up to 10 years later if the participant so elects.  Cash settlements
for stock units were calculated based on the average closing price of AEP common stock for the last 20 trading days
prior to the distribution date. Effective June 30, 2022, the SUAP was amended to pay stock units in AEP common stock
rather than cash.
Management records compensation costs for stock units when the units are awarded and prior to June 2022 adjusted the
liability for changes in value based on the current 20-day average closing price of AEP common stock on the valuation
date.
After five years of service on the Board of Directors, non-employee directors receive subsequent AEP stock units as
contributions to an AEP stock fund under the Stock Unit Accumulation Plan. Such amounts may be exchanged into
other market-based investment options available to employees that participate in AEP’s Incentive Compensation
Deferral Plan. These balances are paid in cash upon termination of board service or up to 10 years later if the
participant so elects.
389
Cash settlements for stock unit distributions were immaterial for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020.
No stock units were settled in AEP common stock for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020.
The Board of Directors awarded stock units, including units awarded for dividends, as follows:
Years Ended December 31,
Stock Unit Accumulation Plan for Non-Employee Directors 2022 2021 2020
Awarded Units (in thousands) 14.5 12.6 12.1 
Weighted-Average Grant Date Fair Value $ 95.16 $ 84.54 $ 83.80 
Share-based Compensation Plans
For share-based payment arrangements the compensation cost, the actual tax benefit from the tax deductions for
compensation cost recognized in income and the total compensation cost capitalized were as follows:
Years Ended December 31,
Share-based Compensation Plans 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
Compensation Cost for Share-based Payment Arrangements (a) $ 63.3 $ 61.1 $ 53.8 
Actual Tax Benefit 8.0 8.7 7.2 
Total Compensation Cost Capitalized 16.0 16.9 20.4 
(a) Compensation cost for share-based payment arrangements is included in Other Operation and Maintenance
expenses on the statements of income.
As of December 31, 2022, there was $78 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested share-
based compensation arrangements granted under the 2015 LTIP. Unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested
share-based arrangements will change as the fair value of performance shares is adjusted each period and as forfeitures
for all award types are realized.  AEP’s unrecognized compensation cost will be recognized over a weighted-average
period of 1.41 years.
Under the 2015 LTIP, AEP is permitted to use authorized but unissued shares, treasury shares, shares acquired in the
open market specifically for distribution under these plans, or any combination thereof to fulfill share commitments.
AEP’s current practice is to use authorized but unissued shares to fulfill share commitments. The number of shares used
to fulfill share commitments is generally reduced to offset tax withholding obligations.
390
16.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The disclosures in this note apply to all Registrant Subsidiaries unless indicated otherwise.
For other related party transactions, also see “AEP System Tax Allocation” section of Note 1 in addition to “Corporate
Borrowing Program – AEP System” and “Securitized Accounts Receivables – AEP Credit” sections of Note 14.
Power Coordination Agreement (Applies to all Registrant Subsidiaries except AEP Texas and AEPTCo)
Effective January 1, 2014, the FERC approved the PCA. Under the PCA, APCo, I&M, KPCo and WPCo are
individually responsible for planning their respective capacity obligations. The PCA allows, but does not obligate,
APCo, I&M, KPCo and WPCo to participate collectively under a common fixed resource requirement capacity plan in
PJM and to participate in specified collective Off-system Sales and purchase activities.
AEPSC conducts power, capacity, coal, natural gas, interest rate and, to a lesser extent, heating oil, gasoline and other
risk management activities on behalf of APCo, I&M, KPCo, PSO, SWEPCo and WPCo. Certain power and natural gas
risk management activities for APCo, I&M, KPCo and WPCo are allocated based on the four member companies’
respective equity positions, while power and natural gas risk management activities for PSO and SWEPCo are allocated
based on the Operating Agreement. AEPSC conducts only gasoline, diesel fuel, energy procurement and risk
management activities on OPCo’s behalf.
System Integration Agreement (Applies to APCo, I&M, PSO and SWEPCo)
Under the SIA, AEPSC allocates physical and financial revenues and expenses from transactions with neighboring
utilities, power marketers and other power and natural gas risk management activities based upon the location of such
activity. Margins resulting from trading and marketing activities originating in PJM generally accrue to the benefit of
APCo, I&M, KPCo and WPCo, while trading and marketing activities originating in SPP generally accrue to the
benefit of PSO and SWEPCo.  Margins resulting from other transactions are allocated among APCo, I&M, KPCo, PSO,
SWEPCo and WPCo based upon the equity positions of these companies.
391
Affiliated Revenues and Purchases
The tables below represent revenues from affiliates, net of respective provisions for refund, by type of revenue for the
Registrant Subsidiaries:
Related Party RevenuesAEP
Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M (a)OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Year Ended December 31, 2022
Direct Sales to East Affiliates $ — $ — $169.7 $ — $ — $ — $ — 
Direct Sales to West Affiliates — — — — — — 1.3 
Transmission Revenues — 1,276.4 77.5 7.7 (3.6) — 51.5 
Other Revenues 3.5 7.4 8.9 7.6 22.4 2.9 1.1 
Total Affiliated Revenues $ 3.5 $1,283.8 $256.1 $ 15.3 $18.8 $ 2.9 $ 53.9 
Related Party RevenuesAEP
Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M (a)OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Year Ended December 31, 2021
Direct Sales to East Affiliates $ — $ — $128.6 $ — $ — $ — $ — 
Transmission Revenues — 1,136.1 60.3 (2.5) (1.1) — 39.6 
Other Revenues 3.9 17.8 9.0 6.3 25.9 4.2 1.4 
Total Affiliated Revenues $ 3.9 $1,153.9 $197.9 $ 3.8 $24.8 $ 4.2 $ 41.0 
Related Party RevenuesAEP
Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M (a)OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Year Ended December 31, 2020
Direct Sales to East Affiliates $ — $ — $112.5 $ — $ — $ — $ — 
Auction Sales to OPCo (b) — — 5.3 3.1 — — — 
Direct Sales to AEPEP 87.5 — — — — — — 
Transmission Revenues — 885.0 49.1 2.9 16.6 — 37.4 
Other Revenues 3.3 11.3 7.8 4.5 24.9 5.2 1.6 
Total Affiliated Revenues $90.8 $ 896.3 $174.7 $ 10.5 $41.5 $ 5.2 $ 39.0 
(a) I&M’s affiliated revenues exclude capacity sales to KPCo from Rockport Plant, Unit 2 and barging, urea
transloading and other transportation services to affiliates. See sections “Unit Power Agreements” and “I&M
Barging, Urea Transloading and Other Services” below for additional information.
(b) Refer to the Ohio Auctions section below for further information regarding these amounts.
392
The tables below represent the purchased power expenses incurred for purchases from affiliates. AEP Texas, AEPTCo,
APCo, PSO and SWEPCo did not purchase any or an immaterial amount of power from affiliates for the years ended
December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020.
Related Party Purchases I&M OPCo
(in millions)
Year Ended December 31, 2022
Auction Purchases from AEPEP (a) $ — $ 9.8 
Direct Purchases from AEGCo 241.8 — 
Total Affiliated Purchases $241.8 $ 9.8 
Related Party Purchases I&M OPCo
(in millions)
Year Ended December 31, 2021
Auction Purchases from AEPEP (a) $ — $ 26.6 
Auction Purchases from AEP Energy (a) — 25.3 
Direct Purchases from AEGCo 217.9 — 
Total Affiliated Purchases $217.9 $ 51.9 
Related Party Purchases I&M OPCo
(in millions)
Year Ended December 31, 2020
Auction Purchases from AEPEP (a) $ — $ 51.0 
Auction Purchases from AEP Energy (a) — 58.7 
Auction Purchases from AEPSC (a) — 10.0 
Direct Purchases from AEGCo 172.8 — 
Total Affiliated Purchases $172.8 $119.7 
(a)    Refer to the Ohio Auctions section below for further information regarding this amount.
The above summarized related party revenues and expenses are reported in Sales to AEP Affiliates and Purchased
Electricity from AEP Affiliates, respectively, on the Registrant Subsidiaries’ statements of income.  Since the Registrant
Subsidiaries are included in AEP’s consolidated results, the above summarized related party transactions are eliminated
in total in AEP’s consolidated revenues and expenses.
PJM and SPP Transmission Service Charges (Applies to all Registrant Subsidiaries except AEP Texas)
The AEP East Companies are parties to the TA, which defines how transmission costs through the PJM OATT are
allocated among the AEP East Companies on a 12-month average coincident peak basis. Additional costs for
transmission services provided by AEPTCo and other transmission affiliates are billed to AEP East Companies through
the PJM OATT.
The following table shows the net transmission service charges recorded by APCo, I&M and OPCo:
Years Ended December 31,
Company 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
APCo $ 345.1 $ 302.0 $ 243.2 
I&M 220.8 186.7 145.9 
OPCo 608.2 508.9 417.4 
The charges shown above are recorded in Other Operation expenses on the statements of income.
393
PSO, SWEPCo and AEPSC are parties to the TCA in connection with the operation of the transmission assets of PSO
and SWEPCo.  The TCA has been approved by the FERC and establishes a coordinating committee, which is charged
with overseeing the coordinated planning of the transmission facilities of the parties to the agreement.  This includes
the performance of transmission planning studies, the interaction of such companies with independent system operators
and other regional bodies interested in transmission planning and compliance with the terms of the OATT filed with the
FERC and the rules of the FERC relating to such a tariff.
Under the TCA, the parties to the agreement delegated to AEPSC the responsibility of monitoring the reliability of their
transmission systems and administering the OATT on their behalf.  The allocations have been governed by the FERC-
approved OATT for the SPP. Additional costs for transmission services provided by AEPTCo and other transmission
affiliates are billed to PSO and SWEPCo through the SPP OATT.
The following table shows the net transmission service charges recorded by PSO and SWEPCo:
Years Ended December 31,
Company 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
PSO $ 110.8 $ 94.7 $ 69.7 
SWEPCo 62.1 56.2 31.3 
The charges shown above are recorded in Other Operation expenses on the statements of income.
AEPTCo provides transmission services to affiliates in accordance with the OATT, TA and TCA. AEPTCo recorded
affiliated transmission revenues in Sales to AEP Affiliates on the statements of income. Refer to the Affiliated Revenues
and Purchases section above for amounts related to these transactions.
ERCOT Transmission Service Charges (Applies to AEP and AEP Texas)
Pursuant to an order from the PUCT, ETT bills AEP Texas for its ERCOT wholesale transmission services. ETT billed
AEP Texas $28 million, $28 million and $28 million for transmission services for the years ended December 31, 2022,
2021 and 2020, respectively. The billings are recorded in Other Operation expenses on AEP Texas’ statements of
income.
Oklaunion PPA between AEP Texas and AEPEP (Applies to AEP Texas)
In 2007, AEP Texas entered into a PPA with an affiliate, AEPEP, whereby AEP Texas agreed to sell AEPEP 100% of
AEP Texas’ capacity and associated energy from its undivided interest (54.69%) in the Oklaunion Power Station. The
PPA was approved by the FERC. In September 2018, the co-owners of Oklaunion Power Station voted to close the
plant in 2020. Effective October 2018, AEP Texas increased depreciation expense to ensure the plant balances are fully
depreciated as of September 2020 and recovered through the PPA billings to AEPEP. Under the early termination
provisions of the PPA, AEPEP paid AEP Texas the full Property, Plant and Equipment balance through depreciation
payments until termination of the PPA due to the plant closing in September 2020. See “Dispositions” section of Note 7
for additional information.
AEP Texas recorded revenue of $88 million from AEPEP for the year ended December 31, 2020. This amount is
included in Sales to AEP Affiliates on AEP Texas’ statements of income.
394
Joint License Agreement (Applies to AEPTCo, APCo, I&M, OPCo and PSO)
AEPTCo entered into a 50-year joint license agreement with APCo, I&M, KPCo, OPCo and PSO, respectively,
allowing either party to occupy the granting party’s facilities or real property. In addition, AEPTCo entered into a 5-
year joint license agreement with APCo and WPCo. After the expiration of these agreements, the term shall
automatically renew for successive one-year terms unless either party provides notice. The joint license billing provides
compensation to the granting party for the cost of carrying assets, including depreciation expense, property taxes,
interest expense, return on equity and income taxes. AEPTCo recorded the following costs in Other Operation expense
related to these agreements:
Years Ended December 31,
Billing Company 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
APCo $ 2.5 $ 2.4 $ 0.9 
I&M 6.1 4.8 3.0 
KPCo 0.6 0.5 0.4 
OPCo 5.2 4.6 4.5 
PSO 0.1 0.4 0.4 
WPCo 0.2 0.2 0.2 
APCo, I&M, KPCo, OPCo, PSO and WPCo recorded income related to these agreements in Sales to AEP Affiliates on
the statements of income.
Ohio Auctions (Applies to APCo, I&M and OPCo)
In connection with OPCo’s June 2012 - May 2015 ESP, the PUCO ordered OPCo to conduct energy and capacity
auctions for its entire SSO load for delivery beginning in June 2015. AEP Energy, AEPEP, APCo, KPCo, I&M and
WPCo participate in the auction process and have been awarded tranches of OPCo’s SSO load. Refer to the Affiliated
Revenues and Purchases section above for amounts related to these transactions.
Unit Power Agreements (Applies to I&M)
UPA between AEGCo and I&M
A UPA between AEGCo and I&M (the I&M Power Agreement) provides for the sale by AEGCo to I&M of all the
power (and the energy associated therewith) available to AEGCo at the Rockport Plant unless it is sold to another
utility. I&M is obligated, whether or not power is available from AEGCo, to pay as a demand charge for the right to
receive such power (and as an energy charge for any associated energy taken by I&M) net of amounts received by
AEGCo from any other sources, sufficient to enable AEGCo to pay all of its operating and other expenses, including a
rate of return on the common equity of AEGCo as approved by the FERC. The I&M Power Agreement will continue in
effect until the debt obligations of AEGCo secured by the Rockport Plant have been satisfied and discharged (currently
expected to be December 2028).
In April 2021, AEGCo and I&M executed an agreement to purchase 100% of the interests in Rockport Plant, Unit 2
effective at the end of the lease term on December 7, 2022. Beginning December 8, 2022, AEGCo and I&M applied the
joint plant accounting model to their respective 50% undivided interests in the jointly owned Rockport Plant, Unit 2 as
well as any future investments made prior to the current estimated retirement date of December 2028.
Prior to the termination of the Rockport Plant, Unit 2 lease, I&M assigned 30% of the power to KPCo.  See the “UPA
between AEGCo and KPCo” section below for additional information. Beginning December 8, 2022, AEGCo billed
100% of its share of the Rockport Plant to I&M and ceased billing to KPCo. KPCo reached an agreement with I&M,
from the end of the lease through May 2024, to buy capacity from Rockport Plant, Unit 2 through the PCA at a rate
equal to PJM’s RPM clearing price. I&M’s capacity sales to KPCo were $199 thousand for the year ended
December 31, 2022.
395
UPA between AEGCo and KPCo
On December 7, 2022, the UPA between AEGCo and KPCo ended upon the termination of the Rockport Plant, Unit 2
lease. Previously, pursuant to an assignment between I&M and KPCo and a UPA between AEGCo and KPCo, AEGCo
sold KPCo 30% of the power (and the energy associated therewith) available to AEGCo from both units of the
Rockport Plant.  KPCo paid AEGCo in consideration for the right to receive such power, the same amounts which I&M
would have paid AEGCo under the terms of the I&M Power Agreement for such entitlement. As a result of the end of
the UPA between AEGCo and KPCo, a prorated bill was recorded from AEGCo to KPCo to reflect costs incurred for
the first seven days of December 2022.
Cook Coal Terminal (Applies to I&M, PSO and SWEPCo)
Cook Coal Terminal, which is owned by AEGCo, performs coal transloading and storage services at cost for I&M.  The
coal transloading costs were $9 million, $11 million and $12 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and
2020, respectively. I&M recorded the cost of transloading services in Fuel on the balance sheets.
Cook Coal Terminal also performs railcar maintenance services at cost for I&M, PSO and SWEPCo.  The railcar
maintenance costs were as follows:
Years Ended December 31,
Company 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
I&M $ 0.6 $ 0.3 $ 0.9 
PSO 0.6 0.4 0.7 
SWEPCo 2.7 2.8 3.0 
I&M, PSO and SWEPCo recorded the cost of the railcar maintenance services in Fuel on the balance sheets.
I&M Barging, Urea Transloading and Other Services (Applies to APCo and I&M)
I&M provides barging, urea transloading and other transportation services to affiliates.  Urea is a chemical used to
control NO emissions at certain generation plants in the AEP System.  I&M recorded revenues from barging,
transloading and other services in Other Revenues – Affiliated on the statements of income.  The affiliated companies
recorded these costs paid to I&M as fuel expenses or other operation expenses.  The amounts of affiliated expenses
were:
Years Ended December 31,
Company 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
AEGCo $ 11.3 $ 7.6 $ 10.6 
APCo 36.1 40.1 43.7 
KPCo 2.0 3.1 3.2 
WPCo 4.7 3.2 3.3 x
396
Sales and Purchases of Property
Certain AEP subsidiaries had affiliated sales and purchases of electric property individually amounting to $100
thousand or more, sales and purchases of meters and transformers, and sales and purchases of transmission
property.  There were no gains or losses recorded on the transactions.  The following tables show the sales and
purchases, recorded at net book value:
Sales
Years Ended December 31,
Company 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
AEP Texas $ 3.0 $ 0.4 $ 0.9 
AEPTCo 2.3 1.4 0.2 
APCo 16.0 6.2 5.7 
I&M 5.3 7.0 1.5 
OPCo 7.6 9.2 7.0 
PSO 2.5 0.5 1.1 
SWEPCo 1.0 0.4 0.8 
Purchases
Years Ended December 31,
Company 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
AEP Texas $ 1.3 $ 0.4 $ 1.5 
AEPTCo 11.6 16.7 6.0 
APCo 2.4 1.0 1.3 
I&M 2.0 0.6 3.4 
OPCo 2.0 1.4 1.2 
PSO 7.6 0.3 0.4 
SWEPCo 2.8 0.3 2.8 
The amounts above are recorded in Property, Plant and Equipment on the balance sheets.
AEP Wind Holdings LLC PPAs (Applies to I&M, OPCo and SWEPCo)
Prior to its acquisition, two of the 50% owned joint venture wind farms in the AEP Wind Holdings, LLC portfolio had
existing PPAs with I&M, OPCo and SWEPCo. Fowler Ridge 2 has PPAs with I&M and OPCo for a portion of its
energy production. The I&M portion totaled $12 million, $10 million and $11 million and the OPCo portion totaled
$24 million, $20 million and $23 million respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020,
respectively. The other joint venture wind farm, Flat Ridge 2, has a PPA with SWEPCo for a portion of its energy
production which totaled $14 million, $14 million and $14 million of purchased electricity for the years ended
December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. AEP disposed of its 50% interest in Flat Ridge 2 in the fourth quarter
of 2022. See “Flat Ridge 2 Wind LLC” section of Note 7 for additional information.
397
Intercompany Billings
The Registrant Subsidiaries and other AEP subsidiaries perform certain utility services for each other when necessary
or practical.  The costs of these services are billed on a direct-charge basis, whenever possible, or on reasonable basis of
proration for services that benefit multiple companies.  The billings for services are made at cost and include no
compensation for the use of equity capital.
Charitable Contributions to AEP Foundation
The American Electric Power Foundation is funded by American Electric Power and its utility operating units. The
Foundation provides a permanent, ongoing resource for charitable initiatives and multi-year commitments in the
communities served by AEP and initiatives outside of AEP’s 11-state service area. Charitable contributions to the AEP
Foundation were recorded in Other Operation on the statements of income as follows:
Year Ended
Company December 31, 2022
(in millions)
AEP $ 75.0 
AEP Texas 9.9 
AEPTCo 11.1 
APCo 12.5 
I&M 11.0 
OPCo 8.1 
PSO 5.8 
SWEPCo 8.8 
In 2021 and 2020, there were no charitable contributions made to the AEP Foundation.
OKTCo Radial Assets Transfer (Applies to AEP, AEPTCo and PSO)
In August 2020, AEPSC filed a request with FERC, on behalf of PSO and OKTCo, to transfer OKTCo’s interests in its
radial assets to PSO. OKTCo had previously constructed radial assets in the PSO service territory and after the radial
assets were placed into service, management determined the radial assets were not eligible to be included as part of
OKTCo’s SPP OATT formula rates. In October 2020, FERC approved the request and in December 2020, OKTCo
completed the transfer of its interest in the radial assets to PSO, through Parent, at net book value. At the transfer date,
the net book value of the radial assets were $60 million, before associated tax liabilities.
398
17.  VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES AND EQUITY METHOD INVESTMENTS
The disclosures in this note apply to all Registrants unless indicated otherwise.
The accounting guidance for “Variable Interest Entities” is a consolidation model that considers if a company has a
variable interest in a VIE.  A VIE is a legal entity that possesses any of the following conditions: the entity’s equity at
risk is not sufficient to permit the legal entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support,
equity owners are unable to direct the activities that most significantly impact the legal entity’s economic performance
(or they possess disproportionate voting rights in relation to the economic interest in the legal entity), or the equity
owners lack the obligation to absorb the legal entity’s expected losses or the right to receive the legal entity’s expected
residual returns. Entities are required to consolidate a VIE when it is determined that they have a controlling financial
interest in a VIE and therefore, are the primary beneficiary of that VIE, as defined by the accounting guidance for
“Variable Interest Entities.” In determining whether AEP is the primary beneficiary of a VIE, management considers
whether AEP has the power to direct the most significant activities of the VIE and is obligated to absorb losses or
receive the expected residual returns that are significant to the VIE. Management believes that significant assumptions
and judgments were applied consistently. 
AEP holds ownership interests in businesses with varying ownership structures. Partnership interests and other variable
interests are evaluated to determine if each entity is a VIE, and if so, whether or not the VIE should be consolidated into
AEP’s financial statements. AEP has not provided material financial or other support that was not previously
contractually required to any of its consolidated VIEs. If an entity is determined not to be a VIE, or if the entity is
determined to be a VIE and AEP is not deemed to be the primary beneficiary, the entity is accounted for under the
equity method of accounting.
Consolidated Variable Interests Entities
Sabine (Applies to AEP and SWEPCo)
Sabine is a mining operator providing mining services to SWEPCo.  SWEPCo has no equity investment in Sabine but
is Sabine’s only customer.  SWEPCo guarantees the debt obligations and lease obligations of Sabine.  Under the terms
of the note agreements, substantially all assets are pledged and all rights under the lignite mining agreement are
assigned to SWEPCo.  The creditors of Sabine have no recourse to any AEP entity other than SWEPCo.  Under the
provisions of the mining agreement, SWEPCo is required to pay, as a part of the cost of lignite delivered, an amount
equal to mining costs plus a management fee.  In addition, SWEPCo determines how much coal will be mined each
year.  Based on these facts, management concluded that SWEPCo is the primary beneficiary and is required to
consolidate Sabine.  SWEPCo’s total billings from Sabine for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 were
$168 million, $162 million and $131 million, respectively.  See the tables below for the classification of Sabine’s assets
and liabilities on SWEPCo’s balance sheets.
As part of the process to receive a renewal of a Texas Railroad Commission permit for lignite mining, SWEPCo
provides guarantees of mine reclamation of $155 million.  Since SWEPCo uses self-bonding, the guarantee commits
SWEPCo to complete the reclamation, in the event, Sabine does not complete the work.  This guarantee ends upon
completion of reclamation.  The mine end-of-life has been adjusted to March 2023, in order to align with the
announced closure of the Pirkey Power Plant. Reclamation is expected to be complete by 2037 at an estimated cost of
$135 million.  Actual reclamation costs could vary due to inflation and scope changes to the mine
reclamation.  SWEPCo recovers these costs through its fuel clauses. As of December 31, 2022, SWEPCo has recorded
$122 million of mine reclamation costs in Asset Retirement Obligations and has collected $89 million through a rider
for reclamation costs. The remaining $33 million is recorded in Deferred Charges and Other Noncurrent Assets on
SWEPCo’s balance sheets.
399
DCC Fuel (Applies to AEP and I&M)
I&M has nuclear fuel lease agreements with DCC Fuel, which was formed for the purpose of acquiring, owning and
leasing nuclear fuel to I&M.  DCC Fuel purchased the nuclear fuel from I&M with funds received from the issuance of
notes to financial institutions.  Each DCC Fuel entity is a single-lessee leasing arrangement with only one asset and is
capitalized with all debt.  Each is a separate legal entity from I&M, the assets of which are not available to satisfy the
debts of I&M.  Payments on the leases for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 were $84 million, $91
million and $94 million, respectively.  The leases were recorded as finance leases on I&M’s balance sheets as title to
the nuclear fuel transfers to I&M at the end of the respective lease terms, which do not exceed 54 months.  Based on
I&M’s control of DCC Fuel, management concluded that I&M is the primary beneficiary and is required to consolidate
DCC Fuel.  The finance leases are eliminated upon consolidation. See the tables below for the classification of DCC
Fuel’s assets and liabilities on I&M’s balance sheets.
Transition Funding (Applies to AEP and AEP Texas)
Transition Funding was formed for the sole purpose of issuing and servicing securitization bonds related to
restructuring legislation in Texas. Management has concluded that AEP Texas is the primary beneficiary of Transition
Funding because AEP Texas has the power to direct the most significant activities of the VIE and AEP Texas’ equity
interest could potentially be significant. Therefore, AEP Texas is required to consolidate Transition Funding. As of
December 31, 2022 and 2021, $70 million and $68 million of the securitized bonds were included in Long-term Debt
Due Within One Year - Nonaffiliated, respectively, and $71 million and $141 million were included in Long-term Debt
- Nonaffiliated, respectively, on the balance sheets. Transition Funding has securitized transition assets of $125 million
and $184 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, which are presented separately on the face of the
balance sheets. The securitized transition assets represent the right to impose and collect Texas true-up costs from
customers receiving electric transmission or distribution service from AEP Texas under-recovery mechanisms approved
by the PUCT. The securitization bonds are payable only from and secured by the securitized transition assets. The
bondholders have no recourse to AEP Texas or any other AEP entity. AEP Texas acts as the servicer for Transition
Funding’s securitized transition assets and remits all related amounts collected from customers to Transition Funding
for interest and principal payments on the securitization bonds and related costs. See the tables below for the
classification of Transition Funding’s assets and liabilities on the balance sheets.
Restoration Funding (Applies to AEP and AEP Texas)
Restoration Funding was formed for the sole purpose of issuing and servicing securitization bonds related to storm
restoration of AEP Texas’ distribution system primarily due to damage caused by Hurricane Harvey. Management has
concluded that AEP Texas is the primary beneficiary of Restoration Funding because AEP Texas has the power to direct
the most significant activities of the VIE and AEP Texas’ equity interest could potentially be significant. Therefore,
AEP Texas is required to consolidate Restoration Funding. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, $24 million and $23
million of the securitized bonds were included in Long-term Debt Due Within One Year - Nonaffiliated, respectively,
and $150 million and $173 million were included in Long-term Debt - Nonaffiliated, respectively, on the balance
sheets. Restoration Funding has securitized assets of $161 million and $183 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021,
respectively, which are presented separately on the face of the balance sheets. The securitized restoration assets
represent the right to impose and collect Texas storm restoration costs from customers receiving electric transmission or
distribution service from AEP Texas under-recovery mechanisms approved by the PUCT. The securitization bonds are
payable only from and secured by the securitized assets. The bondholders have no recourse to AEP Texas or any other
AEP entity. AEP Texas acts as the servicer for Restoration Funding’s securitized assets and remits all related amounts
collected from customers to Restoration Funding for interest and principal payments on the securitization bonds and
related costs. See the table below for the classification of Restoration Funding’s assets and liabilities on the balance
sheets.
400
Appalachian Consumer Rate Relief Funding (Applies to AEP and APCo)
Appalachian Consumer Rate Relief Funding was formed for the sole purpose of issuing and servicing securitization
bonds related to APCo’s under-recovered ENEC deferral balance.  Management has concluded that APCo is the
primary beneficiary of Appalachian Consumer Rate Relief Funding because APCo has the power to direct the most
significant activities of the VIE and APCo’s equity interest could potentially be significant.  Therefore, APCo is
required to consolidate Appalachian Consumer Rate Relief Funding.  As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, $26 million
and $26 million of the securitized bonds were included in Long-term Debt Due Within One Year - Nonaffiliated,
respectively, and $147 million and $173 million were included in Long-term Debt - Nonaffiliated, respectively, on the
balance sheets.  Appalachian Consumer Rate Relief Funding has securitized assets of $160 million and $185 million as
of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, which are presented separately on the face of the balance sheets. The
phase-in recovery property represents the right to impose and collect West Virginia deferred generation charges from
customers receiving electric transmission, distribution and generation service from APCo under a recovery mechanism
approved by the WVPSC.  In November 2013, securitization bonds were issued.  The securitization bonds are payable
only from and secured by the securitized assets.  The bondholders have no recourse to APCo or any other AEP
entity.  APCo acts as the servicer for Appalachian Consumer Rate Relief Funding’s securitized assets and remits all
related amounts collected from customers to Appalachian Consumer Rate Relief Funding for interest and principal
payments on the securitization bonds and related costs. See the tables below for the classification of Appalachian
Consumer Rate Relief Funding’s assets and liabilities on APCo’s balance sheets.
AEP Credit (Applies to AEP)
AEP Credit is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent. AEP Credit purchases, without recourse, accounts receivable from
certain utility subsidiaries of AEP to reduce working capital requirements. AEP provides a minimum of 5% equity and
up to 25% of AEP Credit’s short-term borrowing needs in excess of third-party financings. Any third-party financing of
AEP Credit only has recourse to the receivables securitized for such financing. Based on AEP’s control of AEP Credit,
management concluded that AEP is the primary beneficiary and is required to consolidate AEP Credit. See the tables
below for the classification of AEP Credit’s assets and liabilities on the balance sheets. See “Securitized Accounts
Receivables - AEP Credit” section of Note 14.
EIS (Applies to AEP)
AEP’s subsidiaries participate in one protected cell of EIS for six lines of insurance. EIS has multiple protected cells.
Neither AEP nor its subsidiaries have an equity investment in EIS. The AEP System is essentially this EIS cell’s only
participant, but allows certain third-parties access to this insurance. AEP’s subsidiaries and any allowed third-parties
share in the insurance coverage, premiums and risk of loss from claims. Based on AEP’s control and the structure of the
protected cell of EIS, management concluded that AEP is the primary beneficiary of the protected cell and is required to
consolidate the protected cell of EIS. The insurance premium expense to the protected cell for the years ended
December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 was $31 million, $30 million and $31 million, respectively. See the tables below
for the classification of the protected cell’s assets and liabilities on the balance sheets.  The amount reported as equity is
the protected cell’s policy holders’ surplus.
401
Transource Energy (Applies to AEP)
Transource Energy was formed for the purpose of investing in utilities which develop, acquire, construct, own and
operate transmission facilities in accordance with FERC-approved rates. AEP has equity and voting ownership of
86.5% with the other owner having 13.5% interest. Management has concluded that Transource Energy is a VIE and
that AEP is the primary beneficiary because AEP has the power to direct the most significant activities of the entity and
AEP’s equity interest could potentially be significant. Therefore, AEP is required to consolidate Transource Energy.
Transource Energy’s activities consist of the development, construction and operation of FERC-regulated transmission
assets in Missouri, West Virginia, Pennsylvania, Maryland and Oklahoma. Transource Energy has a credit facility
agreement where borrowings are loaned through intercompany lending agreements to its subsidiaries. The creditor to
the agreement has no recourse to the general credit of AEP. Transource Energy’s credit facility agreement contains
certain covenants and require it to maintain a percentage of debt-to-total capitalization at a level that does not exceed
67.5%. See the tables below for the classification of Transource Energy’s assets and liabilities on the balance sheets.
Apple Blossom Wind Holdings LLC and Black Oak Getty Wind Holdings LLC (Applies to AEP)
AEP holds an equity interest in Apple Blossom Wind Holdings LLC (Apple Blossom) and Black Oak Getty Wind
Holdings LLC (Black Oak) (collectively the Project Entities). The Project Entities have long-term PPAs for 100% of
their energy production. The Project Entities are tax equity partnerships with nonaffiliated noncontrolling interests to
which a percentage of earnings, tax attributes and cash flows are allocated in accordance with the respective limited
liability company agreements. Management concluded the Project Entities are VIEs and that AEP is the primary
beneficiary of both based on its power as managing member to direct the respective activities that most significantly
impact the Project Entities’ economic performance. In addition, AEP has not provided material financial or other
support to the Project Entities that was not previously contractually required. See the table below for the classification
of Project Entities’ assets and liabilities on the balance sheets.
The nonaffiliated interests in the Project Entities are presented in Noncontrolling Interests on the balance sheets.  As of
December 31, 2022 and 2021, AEP recognized $94 million and $108 million, respectively, of Noncontrolling Interests
related to the Project Entities in Equity on the balance sheets.
The Project Entities’ tax equity partnerships represent substantive profit-sharing arrangements. The method for
attributing income and loss to the noncontrolling interests is a balance sheet approach referred to as the hypothetical
liquidation at book value (HLBV) method. Under the HLBV method, the income and loss attributable to the
noncontrolling interests reflect changes in the amounts the members would hypothetically receive at each balance sheet
date under the liquidation provisions of the respective limited liability company agreements, assuming the net assets of
these entities were liquidated at recorded amounts, after taking into account any capital transactions, such as
contributions or distributions, between the entities and the members. For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021,
the HLBV method resulted in a loss of $9 million and $7 million, respectively, allocated to Noncontrolling Interests.
402
Santa Rita East (Applies to AEP)
AEP owns an 85% interest in Santa Rita East Wind Energy Holdings, LLC and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Santa Rita
East Wind Energy, LLC (collectively, Santa Rita East). Santa Rita East is a partnership whose sole purpose is to own
and operate a 302 MW wind generation facility in west Texas. Santa Rita East delivers energy and provides renewable
energy credits through three long-term PPAs totaling 260 MWs. The remaining 42 MWs of energy are sold at
wholesale into ERCOT. Management has concluded that Santa Rita East is a VIE and that AEP is the primary
beneficiary based on its power as managing member of the partnership to direct the activities that most significantly
impact Santa Rita East’s economic performance. See the tables below for the classification of Santa Rita East’s assets
and liabilities on the balance sheets.
AEP recognized $24 million, $25 million and $23 million of PTCs attributable to Santa Rita East for the years ended
December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, which was recorded in Income Tax Expense (Benefit) on the
statements of income. The nonaffiliated interest in Santa Rita East is presented in Noncontrolling Interests on the
balance sheets. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, AEP recorded $58 million and $59 million, respectively, of
Noncontrolling Interests related to Santa Rita East in Equity on the balance sheets.
Dry Lake (Applies to AEP)
In November 2020, AEP signed a Purchase and Sale Agreement with a nonaffiliate to acquire a 75% ownership interest
in the entity that owns Dry Lake Solar Project (collectively, Dry Lake). Dry Lake is a partnership whose sole purpose is
to own, operate and maintain a 100 MW solar generation facility in southern Nevada. In March 2021, AEP closed the
transaction and the solar project was placed in-service in May 2021. Dry Lake delivers energy and provides renewable
energy credits through a long-term PPA. Management has concluded that Dry Lake is a VIE and that AEP is the
primary beneficiary based on its power as managing member to direct the activities that most significantly impact Dry
Lake’s economic performance. See the table below for the classification of Dry Lake assets and liabilities on the
balance sheets.
The ITC attributable to Dry Lake for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 which was recorded in Income Tax
Expense (Benefit) on the statements of income was not material. The nonaffiliated interest in Dry Lake is presented in
Noncontrolling Interests on the balance sheets. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, AEP recognized $34 million and
$35 million of Noncontrolling Interest on the balance sheets.
403
The balances below represent the assets and liabilities of the VIEs that are consolidated. These balances include
intercompany transactions that are eliminated upon consolidation.
American Electric Power Company, Inc. and Subsidiary Companies
Variable Interest Entities
December 31, 2022
Registrant Subsidiaries
SWEPCo
SabineI&M
DCC FuelAEP Texas
Transition
FundingAEP Texas
Restoration
FundingAPCo
Appalachian
Consumer
Rate
Relief Funding
(in millions)
ASSETS
Current Assets $ 108.3 $ 90.2 $ 27.0 $ 21.1 $ 13.5 
Net Property, Plant and Equipment 7.2 179.1 — — — 
Other Noncurrent Assets 130.0 94.0 140.9 (a) 168.8 (b) 164.6 (c)
Total Assets $ 245.5 $ 363.3 $ 167.9 $ 189.9 $ 178.1 
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities $ 25.4 $ 90.0 $ 73.2 $ 31.3 $ 29.3 
Noncurrent Liabilities 219.4 273.3 90.4 157.4 146.9 
Equity 0.7 — 4.3 1.2 1.9 
Total Liabilities and Equity $ 245.5 $ 363.3 $ 167.9 $ 189.9 $ 178.1 
(a) Includes an intercompany item eliminated in consolidation of $16 million.
(b) Includes an intercompany item eliminated in consolidation of $7 million.
(c) Includes an intercompany item eliminated in consolidation of $2 million.
American Electric Power Company, Inc. and Subsidiary Companies
Variable Interest Entities
December 31, 2022
Other Consolidated VIEs
AEP CreditProtected
Cell
of EISTransource
EnergyApple
Blossom and
Black OakSanta Rita
East Dry Lake
(in millions)
ASSETS
Current Assets $ 1,181.0 $ 194.5 $ 23.5 $ 8.3 $ 21.3 $ 4.0 
Net Property, Plant and Equipment — — 482.3 216.5 421.6 142.6 
Other Noncurrent Assets 9.0 0.3 2.7 13.6 0.1 0.3 
Total Assets $ 1,190.0 $ 194.8 $ 508.5 $ 238.4 $ 443.0 $ 146.9 
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities $ 1,087.8 $ 46.4 $ 22.8 $ 4.5 $ 9.6 $ 1.0 
Noncurrent Liabilities 0.9 79.1 218.6 5.4 7.3 0.7 
Equity 101.3 69.3 267.1 228.5 426.1 145.2 
Total Liabilities and Equity $ 1,190.0 $ 194.8 $ 508.5 $ 238.4 $ 443.0 $ 146.9 
404
American Electric Power Company, Inc. and Subsidiary Companies
Variable Interest Entities
December 31, 2021
Registrant Subsidiaries
SWEPCo
SabineI&M
DCC FuelAEP Texas
Transition
FundingAEP Texas
Restoration
FundingAPCo
Appalachian
Consumer
Rate
Relief
Funding
(in millions)
ASSETS
Current Assets $ 77.2 $ 65.2 $ 24.9 $ 24.3 $ 16.0 
Net Property, Plant and
Equipment 51.8 118.6 — — — 
Other Noncurrent Assets 104.1 57.2 208.3 (a) 192.6 (b) 187.8 (c)
Total Assets $ 233.1 $ 241.0 $ 233.2 $ 216.9 $ 203.8 
LIABILITIES AND
EQUITY
Current Liabilities $ 18.9 $ 65.1 $ 71.2 $ 36.1 $ 29.0 
Noncurrent Liabilities 214.3 175.9 157.8 179.6 172.9 
Equity (0.1) — 4.2 1.2 1.9 
Total Liabilities and Equity$ 233.1 $ 241.0 $ 233.2 $ 216.9 $ 203.8 
(a) Includes an intercompany item eliminated in consolidation of $24 million.
(b) Includes an intercompany item eliminated in consolidation of $8 million.
(c) Includes an intercompany item eliminated in consolidation of $2 million.
American Electric Power Company, Inc. and Subsidiary Companies
Variable Interest Entities
December 31, 2021
Other Consolidated VIEs
AEP CreditProtected
Cell
of EISTransource
EnergyApple
Blossom and
Black OakSanta Rita
East Dry Lake
(in millions)
ASSETS
Current Assets $ 996.6 $ 217.3 $ 38.8 $ 9.9 $ 7.6 $ 4.0 
Net Property, Plant and Equipment — — 475.4 217.3 437.6 146.1 
Other Noncurrent Assets 10.4 — 3.0 11.3 — 0.3 
Total Assets $ 1,007.0 $ 217.3 $ 517.2 $ 238.5 $ 445.2 $ 150.4 
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities $ 953.1 $ 37.5 $ 12.5 $ 6.6 $ 5.8 $ 0.9 
Noncurrent Liabilities 0.9 82.3 216.9 5.2 7.0 0.6 
Equity 53.0 97.5 287.8 226.7 432.4 148.9 
Total Liabilities and Equity $ 1,007.0 $ 217.3 $ 517.2 $ 238.5 $ 445.2 $ 150.4 
405
Non-Consolidated Significant Variable Interests
DHLC (Applies to AEP and SWEPCo)
DHLC is a mining operator which sells 50% of the lignite produced to SWEPCo and 50% to CLECO.  The operations
of DHLC are governed by the lignite mining agreement among SWEPCo, CLECO and DHLC. SWEPCo and CLECO
share the executive board seats and voting rights equally. In accordance with the lignite mining agreement, each entity
is responsible for 50% of DHLC’s obligations, including debt.  SWEPCo and CLECO equally approve DHLC’s annual
budget.  The creditors of DHLC have no recourse to any AEP entity other than SWEPCo.  As SWEPCo is the sole
equity owner of DHLC, it receives 100% of the management fee earned by DHLC.  In April 2020, SWEPCo and
CLECO jointly filed a notification letter to the LPSC providing notice of the cessation of lignite mining. SWEPCo’s
total billings from DHLC for the years ended December 31, 2022 were not material, and for the years ended December
31, 2021 and 2020 were $47 million and $142 million, respectively.  DHLC paid dividends of $25 million, $0 million,
and $0 million to SWEPCo for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. SWEPCo is not
required to consolidate DHLC as it is not the primary beneficiary, although SWEPCo holds a significant variable
interest in DHLC.  SWEPCo’s equity investment in DHLC is included in Deferred Charges and Other Noncurrent
Assets on SWEPCo’s balance sheets.
SWEPCo’s investment in DHLC was:
December 31,
2022 2021
As Reported on
the Balance SheetMaximum
ExposureAs Reported on
the Balance SheetMaximum
Exposure
(in millions)
Capital Contribution from SWEPCo$ 7.6 $ 7.6 $ 7.6 $ 7.6 
Retained Earnings 0.4 0.4 23.8 23.8 
SWEPCo’s Share of Obligations — 36.8 — 50.3 
Total Investment in DHLC $ 8.0 $ 44.8 $ 31.4 $ 81.7 
OVEC (Applies to AEP and OPCo)
AEP and several nonaffiliated utility companies jointly own OVEC.  As of December 31, 2022, AEP’s ownership in
OVEC was 43.47%. Parent owns 39.17% and OPCo owns 4.3%. APCo, I&M and OPCo are members to an
intercompany power agreement.  The Registrants’ power participation ratios are 15.69% for APCo, 7.85% for I&M and
19.93% for OPCo. Participants of this agreement are entitled to receive and are obligated to pay for all OVEC
generating capacity, approximately 2,400 MWs, in proportion to their respective power participation ratios. The
proceeds from the sale of power by OVEC are designed to be sufficient for OVEC to meet its operating expenses and
fixed costs, including outstanding indebtedness, and provide a return on capital.  The intercompany power agreement
ends in June 2040.
 
AEP and other nonaffiliated owners authorized environmental investments related to their ownership interests. OVEC
financed capital expenditures in connection with the engineering and construction of FGD projects and the associated
waste disposal landfills at its two generation plants.  These environmental projects were funded through debt issuances.
As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, OVEC’s outstanding indebtedness was approximately $1.1 billion and $1.1 billion,
respectively. Although they are not an obligor or guarantor, the Registrants’ are responsible for their respective ratio of
OVEC’s outstanding debt through the intercompany power agreement. Principal and interest payments related to
OVEC’s outstanding indebtedness are disclosed in accordance with the accounting guidance for “Commitments.” See
the “Commitments” section of Note 6 for additional information.
AEP is not required to consolidate OVEC as it is not the primary beneficiary, although AEP and its subsidiary holds a
significant variable interest in OVEC. Power to control decision making that significantly impacts the economic
performance of OVEC is shared amongst the owners through their representation on the Board of Directors of
406
OVEC and the representation of the sponsoring companies on the Operating Committee under the intercompany power
agreement.
AEP’s investment in OVEC was:
December 31,
2022 2021
As Reported on
the Balance SheetMaximum
ExposureAs Reported on
the Balance SheetMaximum
Exposure
(in millions)
Capital Contribution from AEP $ 4.4 $ 4.4 $ 4.4 $ 4.4 
AEP’s Ratio of OVEC Debt (a) — 478.2 — 492.0 
Total Investment in OVEC $ 4.4 $ 482.6 $ 4.4 $ 496.4 
(a)Based on the Registrants’ power participation ratios APCo, I&M and OPCo’s share of OVEC debt was $173
million, $86 million and $219 million as of December 31, 2022 and $177 million, $89 million and $226 million as
of December 31, 2021, respectively.
Power purchased by the Registrant Subsidiaries from OVEC is included in Purchased Electricity for Resale on the
statements of income and is shown in the table below:
Years Ended December 31,
Company 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
APCo $ 119.3 $ 104.3 $ 94.4 
I&M 59.7 52.2 47.2 
OPCo 151.8 133.0 120.8 
AEPSC (Applies to Registrant Subsidiaries)
AEPSC provides certain managerial and professional services to AEP’s subsidiaries.  Parent is the sole equity owner of
AEPSC.  AEP management controls the activities of AEPSC.  The costs of the services are based on a direct-charge or
on a prorated basis and billed to the AEP subsidiary companies at AEPSC’s cost.  AEP subsidiaries have not provided
financial or other support outside of the reimbursement of costs for services rendered.  AEPSC finances its operations
through cost reimbursement from other AEP subsidiaries.  There are no other terms or arrangements between AEPSC
and any of the AEP subsidiaries that could require additional financial support from an AEP subsidiary or expose them
to losses outside of the normal course of business.  AEPSC and its billings are subject to regulation by the FERC.  AEP
subsidiaries are exposed to losses to the extent they cannot recover the costs of AEPSC through their normal business
operations.  AEP subsidiaries are considered to have a significant interest in AEPSC due to their activity in AEPSC’s
cost reimbursement structure.  However, AEP subsidiaries do not have control over AEPSC.  AEPSC is consolidated by
AEP.  In the event AEPSC would require financing or other support outside the cost reimbursement billings, this
financing would be provided by AEP.
Total AEPSC billings to the Registrant Subsidiaries were as follows:
Years Ended December 31,
Company 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
AEP Texas $ 236.8 $ 206.9 $ 199.4 
AEPTCo 286.6 267.1 270.3 
APCo 347.5 313.3 294.9 
I&M 192.4 200.9 210.2 
OPCo 272.5 234.9 232.8 
PSO 142.3 123.7 113.2 
SWEPCo 192.5 168.6 161.8 
407
The carrying amount and classification of variable interest in AEPSC’s accounts payable were as follows:
December 31,
2022 2021
CompanyAs Reported on
the Balance SheetMaximum
ExposureAs Reported on
the Balance SheetMaximum
Exposure
(in millions)
AEP Texas $ 27.8 $ 27.8 $ 22.2 $ 22.2 
AEPTCo 31.6 31.6 23.3 23.3 
APCo 41.5 41.5 44.1 44.1 
I&M 27.7 27.7 21.8 21.8 
OPCo 31.1 31.1 25.5 25.5 
PSO 17.7 17.7 13.7 13.7 
SWEPCo 23.8 23.8 20.5 20.5 
AEGCo (Applies to I&M)
AEGCo, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent, is consolidated by AEP.  AEGCo owns a 50% ownership interest in
Rockport Plant, Units 1 and 2. AEGCo sells all the output from the Rockport Plant to I&M.  AEP has agreed to provide
AEGCo with the funds necessary to satisfy all of the debt obligations of AEGCo.  I&M is considered to have a
significant interest in AEGCo due to these transactions.  I&M is exposed to losses to the extent it cannot recover the
costs of AEGCo through its normal business operations.  In the event AEGCo would require financing or other support
outside the billings to I&M, this financing would be provided by AEP. Total billings to I&M from AEGCo for the years
ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 were $242 million, $218 million and $173 million, respectively. The
carrying amounts of I&M’s liabilities associated with AEGCo as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 were $17 million and
$18 million, respectively. Management estimates the maximum exposure of loss to be equal to the amount of such
liability.
Significant Equity Method Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Applies to AEP)
For a discussion of the equity method of accounting, see the “Equity Investment in Unconsolidated Entities” section of
Note 1.
AEP Wind Holdings, LLC
In September 2022, AEP signed a PSA with a nonaffiliate for AEP’s interest in Flat Ridge 2, one of the five joint
ventures that were held as of December 31, 2021 by AEP. The transaction closed in the fourth quarter of 2022 and had
an immaterial impact on the financial statements. As of December 31, 2022, through AEP Wind Holdings, LLC, AEP
holds a 50% interest in four joint ventures in multiple states which own distinct generation facilities. BP Wind Energy
holds the other 50% interest in each of these joint ventures. All four wind farms have long-term PPAs for 100% of their
energy production. One of the jointly-owned wind farms has PPAs with I&M and OPCo for a portion of its energy
production. The joint ventures are not considered VIEs and AEP is not required to consolidate them as AEP does not
have a controlling financial interest. However, AEP is able to exercise significant influence over the joint ventures and
therefore applies the equity method of accounting.
The following financial figures in the respective periods include the results Flat Ridge 2 prior to its disposal. As of
December 31, 2022 and 2021, AEP’s carrying value of the investment in the joint ventures was $247 million and
$399 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the difference between AEP’s carrying value and the
amount of underlying equity in net assets was $62 million and $(3) million, respectively. The investment includes
amounts recognized in AOCI related to interest rate cash flow hedges. AEP’s equity earnings (loss) associated with the
joint venture wind farms was $(194) million, $(12) million and $2 million for the years ended December 31, 2022,
2021, and 2020, respectively. AEP recognized $39 million, $33 million, and $36 million of PTCs attributable to the
joint ventures for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020 respectively, which was recorded in Income Tax
Expense (Benefit) on the statements of income. See the “Impairments” section of Note 7 for additional information.
408
ETT
ETT designs, acquires, constructs, owns and operates certain transmission facilities in ERCOT. Berkshire Hathaway
Energy, a nonaffiliated entity, holds a 50% membership interest in ETT and AEP Transmission Holdco holds a 50%
membership interest in ETT. As a result, AEP, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, holds a 50% membership interest
in ETT. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, AEP’s investment in ETT was $762 million and $733 million, respectively.
AEP’s equity earnings associated with ETT were $74 million, $66 million and $68 million for the years ended
December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 respectively.
409
18.  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
The disclosures in this note apply to all Registrants unless indicated otherwise.
Property, Plant and Equipment is shown functionally on the face of the balance sheets. The following tables include the
total plant balances as of December 31, 2022 and 2021:
December 31, 2022 AEP AEP TexasAEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Regulated Property, Plant and
Equipment
Generation $22,523.1 (a)$ — $ — $6,776.8 $5,534.6 $ — $2,394.8 $5,476.2 (a)
Transmission 32,267.8 6,301.5 12,183.2 4,482.8 1,842.2 3,198.6 1,164.4 2,479.8 
Distribution 26,077.2 5,312.8 — 4,933.0 3,024.7 6,450.3 3,216.4 2,659.6 
Other 5,700.4 1,020.4 451.7 849.2 796.1 1,040.6 466.0 582.6 
CWIP 4,630.8 (a) 805.2 1,547.1 705.3 253.0 474.3 219.3 369.5 (a)
Less: Accumulated
Depreciation 21,947.1 1,759.5 1,012.2 5,397.3 4,117.8 2,564.3 1,839.4 3,314.8 
Total Regulated Property,
Plant and Equipment -
Net 69,252.2 11,680.4 13,169.8 12,349.8 7,332.8 8,599.5 5,621.5 8,252.9 
Nonregulated Property, Plant
and Equipment - Net 2,030.7 1.2 0.3 29.4 78.7 9.8 5.0 9.3 
Total Property, Plant and
Equipment - Net $71,282.9 (b)$11,681.6 $13,170.1 (c)$12,379.2 $7,411.5 $8,609.3 $5,626.5 $8,262.2 
December 31, 2021 AEP AEP TexasAEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Regulated Property, Plant and
Equipment
Generation $21,196.8 (a)$ — $ — $6,683.9 $5,531.8 $ — $1,802.4 $4,734.5 (a)
Transmission 29,866.0 5,849.9 10,886.3 4,322.4 1,783.1 2,992.8 1,107.7 2,316.9 
Distribution 24,440.0 4,917.2 — 4,683.3 2,800.1 6,070.6 3,004.9 2,514.3 
Other 5,249.8 958.7 427.2 668.9 755.1 982.2 433.5 542.0 
CWIP 3,632.4 (a) 551.3 1,394.8 469.9 302.8 365.0 156.0 240.7 (a)
Less: Accumulated
Depreciation 20,375.5 1,642.9 772.9 5,047.4 3,885.3 2,457.4 1,707.0 3,002.2 
Total Regulated Property,
Plant and Equipment -
Net 64,009.5 10,634.2 11,935.4 11,781.0 7,287.6 7,953.2 4,797.5 7,346.2 
Nonregulated Property, Plant
and Equipment - Net 1,991.8 1.2 0.3 23.3 23.3 9.8 5.3 53.9 
Total Property, Plant and
Equipment - Net $66,001.3 (b)$10,635.4 $11,935.7 (c)$11,804.3 $7,310.9 $7,963.0 $4,802.8 $7,400.1 
(a) AEP and SWE PCo’ s regulated generation and regulated CWIP  include amounts related to SWEPCo’ s Arka nsas jurisdictional share
of the Turk Plant.
(b) Amount excludes $2.4 billion  and $2.3 billion  as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively , of Property , Plant and Equipment -
Net classified as Assets Held for Sale on the balance sheet. See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section  of Note 7 for additional
information.
(c) Amount excludes $170 million and $165 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively , of Property , Plant and
Equipment - Net classified as Assets Held for Sale on the balance sheet. See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7
for additional information.
410
Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization
The Registrants provide for depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment, excluding coal-mining properties, on a
straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of property, generally using composite rates by functional class.  The
following tables provide total regulated annual composite depreciation rates and depreciable lives for the Registrants:
AEP
2022 2021 2020
Functional
Class of
PropertyAnnual Composite
Depreciation Rate
RangesDepreciable
Life RangesAnnual Composite
Depreciation Rate
RangesDepreciable
Life RangesAnnual Composite
Depreciation Rate
RangesDepreciable
Life Ranges
(in years) (in years) (in years)
Generation 2.7% -7.6% 20 - 132 2.7% -7.8% 20 - 132 2.7% -6.3% 20 - 132
Transmission 2.0% -2.7% 24 - 75 2.0% -2.6% 15 - 75 2.0% -2.6% 15 - 75
Distribution 2.7% -3.6% 7 - 78 2.8% -3.6% 7 - 80 2.7% -3.7% 7 - 78
Other 3.1% -14.4% 5 - 75 3.0% -12.5% 5 - 75 2.8% -11.3% 5 - 75
AEP Texas
2022 2021 2020
Functional
Class of
PropertyAnnual Composite
Depreciation RateDepreciable
Life RangesAnnual Composite
Depreciation RateDepreciable
Life RangesAnnual Composite
Depreciation RateDepreciable
Life Ranges
(in years) (in years) (in years)
Transmission 2.2% 50 - 75 2.2% 50 - 75 2.0% 50 - 75
Distribution 2.9% 7 - 70 2.9% 7 - 70 3.1% 7 - 70
Other 6.2% 5 - 50 5.8% 5 - 50 6.1% 5 - 50
AEPTCo
2022 2021 2020
Functional
Class of
PropertyAnnual Composite
Depreciation RateDepreciable
Life RangesAnnual Composite
Depreciation RateDepreciable
Life RangesAnnual Composite
Depreciation RateDepreciable
Life Ranges
(in years) (in years) (in years)
Transmission 2.6% 24 - 75 2.5% 24 - 75 2.4% 24 - 75
Other 6.6% 5 - 56 6.7% 5 - 56 6.3% 5 - 64
APCo
2022 2021 2020
Functional
Class of
PropertyAnnual Composite
Depreciation RateDepreciable
Life RangesAnnual Composite
Depreciation RateDepreciable
Life RangesAnnual Composite
Depreciation RateDepreciable
Life Ranges
(in years) (in years) (in years)
Generation 3.6% 35 - 118 3.6% 35 - 118 3.3% 35 - 118
Transmission 2.2% 24 - 75 2.1% 15 - 75 2.2% 15 - 75
Distribution 3.6% 12 - 57 3.5% 12 - 57 3.7% 12 - 57
Other 7.3% 5 - 55 8.5% 5 - 55 7.8% 5 - 55
I&M
2022 2021 2020
Functional
Class of
PropertyAnnual Composite
Depreciation RateDepreciable
Life RangesAnnual Composite
Depreciation RateDepreciable
Life RangesAnnual Composite
Depreciation RateDepreciable
Life Ranges
(in years) (in years) (in years)
Generation 4.9% 20 - 132 4.7% 20 - 132 4.6% 20 - 132
Transmission 2.5% 44 - 67 2.4% 45 - 70 2.3% 45 - 70
Distribution 3.1% 14 - 71 3.4% 14 - 71 3.4% 14 - 71
Other 10.1% 5 - 45 9.0% 5 - 51 10.2% 5 - 51
OPCo
2022 2021 2020
Functional
Class of
PropertyAnnual Composite
Depreciation RateDepreciable
Life RangesAnnual Composite
Depreciation RateDepreciable
Life RangesAnnual Composite
Depreciation RateDepreciable
Life Ranges
(in years) (in years) (in years)
Transmission 2.3% 39 - 60 2.3% 39 - 60 2.3% 39 - 60
Distribution 2.7% 11 - 70 2.9% 11 - 70 3.1% 14 - 65
Other 6.1% 5 - 50 6.1% 5 - 50 5.0% 5 - 50
411
PSO
2022 2021 2020
Functional
Class of
PropertyAnnual Composite
Depreciation RateDepreciable
Life RangesAnnual Composite
Depreciation RateDepreciable
Life RangesAnnual Composite
Depreciation RateDepreciable
Life Ranges
(in years) (in years) (in years)
Generation 3.1% 30 - 75 2.8% 30 - 75 3.1% 35 - 75
Transmission 2.5% 42 - 75 2.4% 42 - 75 2.2% 45 - 75
Distribution 2.9% 15 - 78 2.9% 15 - 78 2.9% 15 - 78
Other 6.8% 5 - 56 6.1% 5 - 56 5.7% 5 - 64
SWEPCo
2022 2021 2020
Functional
Class of
PropertyAnnual Composite
Depreciation RateDepreciable
Life RangesAnnual Composite
Depreciation RateDepreciable
Life RangesAnnual Composite
Depreciation RateDepreciable
Life Ranges
(in years) (in years) (in years)
Generation 2.7% 30 - 65 2.7% 30 - 65 2.7% 35 - 65
Transmission 2.3% 44 - 70 2.4% 49 - 74 2.3% 47 - 73
Distribution 2.9% 15 - 75 2.8% 15 - 80 2.7% 15 - 67
Other 9.0% 5 - 57 8.6% 5 - 58 8.5% 5 - 52
The following table includes the nonregulated annual composite depreciation rate ranges and nonregulated depreciable
life ranges for AEP. Depreciation rate ranges and depreciable life ranges are not meaningful for nonregulated property
of AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo for 2022, 2021 and 2020.
2022 2021 2020
Functional
Class of
PropertyAnnual Composite
Depreciation Rate
RangesDepreciable
Life RangesAnnual Composite
Depreciation Rate
RangesDepreciable
Life RangesAnnual Composite
Depreciation Rate
RangesDepreciable
Life Ranges
(in years) (in years) (in years)
Generation 3.8% -8.7% 3 - 61 3.8% -10.4% 10 - 59 3.6% -4.0% 15 - 59
Transmission 2.8% 10 - 62 2.6% 30 - 40 2.5% 30 - 40
Distribution NA NA NA NA NA NA
Other 25.2% 5 - 35 (a) 16.5% 5 - 35 (a) 16.1% 5 - 50
(a) In 2020 management announced plans to retire the Pirkey Plant in 2023 and the related depreciable lives have been adjusted accordingly. See Note 5 -
Effects of Regulation for additional information.
NA Not applicable.
SWEPCo provides for depreciation, depletion and amortization of coal-mining assets over each asset’s estimated useful
life or the estimated life of each mine, whichever is shorter, using the straight-line method for mining structures and
equipment.  SWEPCo uses either the straight-line method or the units-of-production method to amortize mine
development costs and deplete coal rights based on estimated recoverable tonnages.  SWEPCo includes these costs in
fuel expense.
For regulated operations, the composite depreciation rate generally includes a component for non-ARO removal costs,
which is credited to Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization on the balance sheets.  Actual removal costs incurred
are charged to Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization.  Any excess of accrued non-ARO removal costs over
actual removal costs incurred is reclassified from Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization and reflected as a
regulatory liability.  For nonregulated operations, non-ARO removal costs are expensed as incurred. 
412
Asset Retirement Obligations (Applies to all Registrants except AEPTCo)
The Registrants recorded the following revisions to ARO estimates as of December 31, 2022 and 2021:
•As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, I&M’s ARO liability for nuclear decommissioning of the Cook Plant was
$2 billion and $1.93 billion, respectively.  These liabilities are reflected in Asset Retirement Obligations on
I&M’s balance sheets.  As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the fair value of I&M’s assets that are legally
restricted for purposes of settling decommissioning liabilities totaled $3.01 billion and $3.54 billion,
respectively.  These assets are included in Spent Nuclear Fuel and Decommissioning Trusts on I&M’s balance
sheets. In December 2021, I&M recorded a $58 million revision for Cook Plant as a result of the latest
decommissioning cost study. The ARO liability was updated and changes from the previous study were driven
primarily by general increases in the projected cost of labor and materials.
•In 2020, Virginia’s Governor signed House Bill 443 (HB 443) requiring APCo to close certain ash disposal
units at the retired Glen Lyn Station by removal of all coal combustion material. In June 2021, management
completed fully designed and costed project plans for the Glen Lyn Station site and increased ash disposal ARO
liabilities by an additional $79 million. HB 443 provides for the recovery of all costs associated with closure by
removal through the Virginia environmental rate adjustment clause. APCo is permitted to record carrying costs
on the unrecovered balance of closure costs as a weighted-average cost of capital approved by the Virginia
SCC. The legislation provides for regulatory recovery of these costs.
•In September 2022, APCo recorded a $14 million revision due to an increase in estimated ash pond closure
costs at the Amos Plant.
•In March 2022, PSO and SWEPCo acquired respective undivided ownership interests in the entity that owned
Traverse during its development and construction. Immediately following the acquisition, PSO and SWEPCo
liquidated the entity and simultaneously distributed the Traverse assets in proportion to their undivided
ownership interests. Traverse was placed in-service in March 2022. As a result, PSO and SWEPCo incurred
additional ARO liabilities of $13 million and $15 million, respectively. See the “North Central Wind Energy
Facilities” section of Note 7 for additional information.
•In March 2022, SWEPCo recorded a $13 million revision due to an increase in estimated ash pond closure
costs at the Pirkey Plant and the Welsh Plant. In June 2022, SWEPCo recorded a $16 million revision due to an
increase in estimated reclamation costs at Sabine. In September 2022, SWEPCo recorded a $14 million
revision due to an increase in estimated landfill closure costs at Pirkey Plant. In November 2022, SWEPCo
recorded an additional $7 million revision related to an increase in estimated reclamation costs at Sabine.
The following is a reconciliation of the 2022 and 2021 aggregate carrying amounts of ARO by Registrant:
CompanyARO as of
December 31,
2021Accretion
ExpenseLiabilities
IncurredLiabilities
SettledRevisions in
Cash Flow
Estimates (a)ARO as of
December 31,
2022
(in millions)
AEP(b)(c)(d)(e)(f)(g)(h)$ 2,741.7 $ 111.2 $ 37.4 $ (47.0)$ 100.3 $ 2,943.6 
AEP Texas (b)(e) 4.4 0.3 — (0.2) — 4.5 
APCo (b)(e) 404.6 15.8 3.0 (12.7) 17.0 427.7 
I&M (b)(c)(e) 1,946.3 71.5 3.2 (0.6) 7.7 2,028.1 
OPCo (e) 1.9 0.2 3.0 (0.1) — 5.0 
PSO (b)(e)(g) 57.6 4.1 12.8 (0.7) 1.9 75.7 
SWEPCo (b)(d)(e)(g) 222.7 11.9 15.4 (25.8) 56.7 280.9 
413
CompanyARO as of
December 31,
2020Accretion
ExpenseLiabilities
IncurredLiabilities
SettledRevisions in
Cash Flow
Estimates (a)ARO as of
December 31,
2021
(in millions)
AEP (b)(c)(d)(e)(f)(g)(h)$ 2,516.7 $ 105.0 $ 22.8 $ (41.4)$ 138.6 $ 2,741.7 
AEP Texas (b)(e) 4.6 0.2 — (0.4) — 4.4 
APCo (b)(e) 313.1 13.7 — (6.9) 84.7 404.6 
I&M (b)(c)(e) 1,813.8 72.9 0.3 (0.1) 59.4 1,946.3 
OPCo (e) 1.9 0.1 — (0.1) — 1.9 
PSO (b)(e)(g) 47.4 3.3 7.6 (0.7) — 57.6 
SWEPCo (b)(d)(e)(g) 222.1 9.8 9.2 (20.9) 2.5 222.7 
(a)Unless discussed above, primarily related to ash ponds, landfills and mine reclamation, generally due to changes in
estimated closure area, volumes and/or unit costs.
(b)Includes ARO related to ash disposal facilities.
(c)Includes ARO related to nuclear decommissioning costs for the Cook Plant of $2 billion and $1.93 billion as of
December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
(d)Includes ARO related to Sabine and DHLC.
(e)Includes ARO related to asbestos removal.
(f)Includes ARO related to solar farms.
(g)Includes ARO related to wind farms.
(h)Includes $18 million and $18 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, of ARO classified as Liabilities Held
for Sale on the balance sheet. See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 for additional information.
Allowance for Funds Used During Construction and Interest Capitalization
The Registrants’ amounts of Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction are summarized in the following
table:
Years Ended December 31,
Company 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
AEP $ 133.7 $ 139.7 $ 148.1 
AEP Texas 19.7 21.5 19.4 
AEPTCo 70.7 67.2 74.0 
APCo 11.7 15.6 14.6 
I&M 9.8 12.8 11.5 
OPCo 13.9 10.8 12.5 
PSO 1.5 2.4 4.0 
SWEPCo 4.9 7.0 7.7 
The Registrants’ amounts of allowance for borrowed funds used during construction, including capitalized interest, are
summarized in the following table:
Years Ended December 31,
Company 2022 2021 2020
(in millions)
AEP $ 63.0 $ 53.8 $ 66.0 
AEP Texas 11.5 10.5 12.5 
AEPTCo 22.4 21.0 25.5 
APCo 6.5 7.5 7.9 
I&M 5.7 5.1 5.7 
OPCo 6.7 4.7 6.2 
PSO 2.7 0.7 2.0 
SWEPCo 4.3 3.0 3.9 
414
Jointly-owned Electric Facilities (Applies to AEP, I&M, PSO and SWEPCo)
The Registrants have electric facilities that are jointly-owned with affiliated and nonaffiliated companies.  Using its
own financing, each participating company is obligated to pay its share of the costs of these jointly-owned facilities in
the same proportion as its ownership interest.  Each Registrant’s proportionate share of the operating costs associated
with these facilities is included in its statements of income and the investments and accumulated depreciation are
reflected in its balance sheets under Property, Plant and Equipment as follows:
Registrant’ s Shar e as of December  31, 2022
Fuel
TypePercent of
OwnershipUtility Plant
in ServiceConstruction
Work in
ProgressAccumulated
Depr eciation
(in millions)
AEP
Flint Creek Generating Station, Unit 1 (a) Coal 50.0 %$ 382.9  $ 16.4 $ 149.4  
Pirkey Plant, Unit 1 (a) Lignite 85.9 % 632.0  — 632.0  
Turk Generating Plant (a) Coal 73.3 % 1,611.1 5.1 314.7  
Total $ 2,626.0  $ 21.5 $ 1,096.1  
I&M
Rockport Generating Plant (b)(c)(d) Coal 50.0 %$ 1,357.4  $ 9.2 $ 905.1  
PSO
North Central Wind Ener gy Facilities (e)(f) Wind 45.5 %$ 889.3  $ 9.1 $ 28.1 
SWEPCo
Flint Creek Generating Station, Unit 1 (a) Coal 50.0 %$ 382.9  $ 16.4 $ 149.4  
Pirkey Plant, Unit 1 (a) Lignite 85.9 % 632.0  — 632.0  
Turk Generating Plant (a) Coal 73.3 % 1,611.1 5.1 314.7  
North Central Wind Ener gy Facilities (e)(f) Wind 54.5 % 1,066.8  10.1 35.2 
Total $ 3,692.8  $ 31.6 $ 1,131.3  
415
Registrant’ s Shar e as of December  31, 2021
Fuel
TypePercent of
OwnershipUtility Plant
in ServiceConstruction
Work in
ProgressAccumulated
Depr eciation
(in millions)
AEP
Flint Creek Generating Station, Unit 1 (a) Coal 50.0 %$ 377.6  $ 6.3 $ 133.5  
Pirkey Plant, Unit 1 (a) Lignite 85.9 % 613.8  — 528.3  
Turk Generating Plant (a) Coal 73.3 % 1,598.0  10.2 285.6  
Total $ 2,589.4  $ 16.5 $ 947.4  
I&M
Rockport Generating Plant (b)(c)(d) Coal 50.0 %$ 1,247.2  $ 13.9 $ 794.5  
PSO
North Central Wind Ener gy Facilities (e)(f) Wind 45.5 %$ 313.7  $ — $ 4.2 
SWEPCo
Flint Creek Generating Station, Unit 1 (a) Coal 50.0 %$ 377.6  $ 6.3 $ 133.5  
Pirkey Plant, Unit 1 (a) Lignite 85.9 % 613.8  — 528.3  
Turk Generating Plant (a) Coal 73.3 % 1,598.0  10.2 285.6  
North Central Wind Ener gy Facilities (e)(f) Wind 54.5 % 376.2  — 5.4 
Total $ 2,965.6  $ 16.5 $ 952.8  
(a) Operated by SWEPCo.
(b) Operated by I&M.
(c) Amounts include I&M's 50% ownership of both Unit 1 and capital additions for Unit 2. Unit 2 was subject to a finance lease with a
nonaf filiated company . In December 2022, the lease expired at which point I&M and AEGCo acquired 100% of the interests in Unit 2.
See the "Rockport Plant Litigation" section of Note 6 for additional information.
(d) AEGCo owns 50%.
(e) PSO and SWEPCo own undivided interests of 45.5% and 54.5% of the NCWF , respectively . Sundance was placed into service in April
2021. Maverick was placed into service in September 2021. Traverse was placed into service in March 2022. See the “Acquisitions”
section of Note 7 for additional information.
(f) Operated by PSO.
416
19. REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS
The disclosures in this note apply to all Registrants, unless indicated otherwise.
Disaggregated Revenues from Contracts with Customers
The table below represents AEP’s reportable segment revenues from contracts with customers, net of respective
provisions for refund, by type of revenue:
Year Ended December 31, 2022
Vertically
Integrated
UtilitiesTransmission
and
Distribution
UtilitiesAEP
Transmission
HoldcoGeneration
&
MarketingCorporate
and OtherReconciling
AdjustmentsAEP
Consolidated
(in millions)
Retail Revenues:
Residential Revenues $4,498.6 $ 2,497.3 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 6,995.9 
Commercial Revenues 2,576.5 1,365.2 — — — — 3,941.7 
Industrial Revenues (a) 2,543.8 711.3 — — — (0.9) 3,254.2 
Other Retail Revenues 212.2 49.1 — — — — 261.3 
Total Retail Revenues 9,831.1 4,622.9 — — — (0.9) 14,453.1 
Wholesale and Competitive Retail
Revenues:
Generation Revenues 958.3 — — 271.2 — — 1,229.5 
Transmission Revenues (b) 442.8 650.0 1,700.6 — — (1,413.2) 1,380.2 
Renewable Generation Revenues
(a) — — — 129.1 — (8.0) 121.1 
Retail, Trading and Marketing
Revenues (a) — — — 1,713.2 6.9 (10.1) 1,710.0 
Total Wholesale and Competitive
Retail Revenues 1,401.1 650.0 1,700.6 2,113.5 6.9 (1,431.3) 4,440.8 
Other Revenues from Contracts with
Customers (c) 241.1 247.3 8.2 12.1 93.9 (104.8) 497.8 
Total Revenues from Contracts with
Customers 11,473.3 5,520.2 1,708.8 2,125.6 100.8 (1,537.0) 19,391.7 
Other Revenues:
Alternative Revenue Programs (d) 3.8 (26.8) (31.8) — — (57.7) (112.5)
Other Revenues (a) (e) 0.4 18.6 — 341.3 9.1 (9.1) 360.3 
Total Other Revenues 4.2 (8.2) (31.8) 341.3 9.1 (66.8) 247.8 
Total Revenues $11,477.5 $ 5,512.0 $ 1,677.0 $ 2,466.9 $ 109.9 $ (1,603.8)$ 19,639.5 
(a) Amounts include affiliated and nonaffiliated revenues.
(b) Amounts include affiliated and nonaffiliated revenues. The affiliated revenue for AEP Transmission Holdco was $1.3 billion. The remaining affiliated
amounts were immaterial.
(c) Amounts include affiliated and nonaffiliated revenues. The affiliated revenue for Corporate and Other was $59 million. The remaining affiliated
amounts were immaterial.
(d) Alternative revenue programs in certain jurisdictions include regulatory mechanisms that periodically adjust for over/under collection of related
revenues.
(e) Generation & Marketing includes economic hedge activity.
417
Year Ended December 31, 2021
Vertically
Integrated
UtilitiesTransmission
and
Distribution
UtilitiesAEP
Transmission
HoldcoGeneration
&
MarketingCorporate
and OtherReconciling
AdjustmentsAEP
Consolidated
(in millions)
Retail Revenues:
Residential Revenues $3,952.6 $ 2,138.2 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 6,090.8 
Commercial Revenues 2,208.5 1,081.2 — — — — 3,289.7 
Industrial Revenues 2,168.2 395.2 — — — (0.8) 2,562.6 
Other Retail Revenues 170.6 43.9 — — — — 214.5 
Total Retail Revenues 8,499.9 3,658.5 — — — (0.8) 12,157.6 
Wholesale and Competitive Retail
Revenues:
Generation Revenues 942.6 — — 137.9 — — 1,080.5 
Transmission Revenues (a) 355.5 572.4 1,456.4 — — (1,206.0) 1,178.3 
Renewable Generation Revenues
(b) — — — 86.9 — (3.6) 83.3 
Retail, Trading and Marketing
Revenues (c) — — — 1,722.6 1.4 (51.6) 1,672.4 
Total Wholesale and Competitive
Retail Revenues 1,298.1 572.4 1,456.4 1,947.4 1.4 (1,261.2) 4,014.5 
Other Revenues from Contracts with
Customers (b) 187.5 194.2 17.1 7.2 60.1 (115.2) 350.9 
Total Revenues from Contracts with
Customers 9,985.5 4,425.1 1,473.5 1,954.6 61.5 (1,377.2) 16,523.0 
Other Revenues:
Alternative Revenue Programs (d) 13.5 48.8 52.7 — — (73.6) 41.4 
Other Revenues (b) (e) (0.5) 19.0 — 209.1 10.7 (10.7) 227.6 
Total Other Revenues 13.0 67.8 52.7 209.1 10.7 (84.3) 269.0 
Total Revenues $9,998.5 $ 4,492.9 $ 1,526.2 $ 2,163.7 $ 72.2 $ (1,461.5)$ 16,792.0 
(a) Amounts include affiliated and nonaffiliated revenues. The affiliated revenue for AEP Transmission Holdco was $1.1 billion. The remaining affiliated
amounts were immaterial.
(b) Amounts include affiliated and nonaffiliated revenues.
(c) Amounts include affiliated and nonaffiliated revenues. The affiliated revenue for Generation & Marketing was $52 million. The remaining affiliated
amounts were immaterial.
(d) Alternative revenue programs in certain jurisdictions include regulatory mechanisms that periodically adjust for over/under collection of related
revenues.
(e) Generation & Marketing includes economic hedge activity.
418
Year Ended December 31, 2020
Vertically
Integrated
UtilitiesTransmission
and
Distribution
UtilitiesAEP
Transmission
HoldcoGeneration
&
MarketingCorporate
and OtherReconciling
AdjustmentsAEP
Consolidated
(in millions)
Retail Revenues:
Residential Revenues $3,606.8 $ 2,086.9 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 5,693.7 
Commercial Revenues 2,016.2 1,048.6 — — — — 3,064.8 
Industrial Revenues 2,018.0 390.1 — — — (0.7) 2,407.4 
Other Retail Revenues 155.6 42.5 — — — — 198.1 
Total Retail Revenues 7,796.6 3,568.1 — — — (0.7) 11,364.0 
Wholesale and Competitive Retail
Revenues:
Generation Revenues 588.3 — — 131.9 — — 720.2 
Transmission Revenues (a) 334.5 467.0 1,257.0 — — (1,006.7) 1,051.8 
Renewable Generation Revenues
(b) — — — 60.9 — (1.6) 59.3 
Retail, Trading and Marketing
Revenues (c) — — — 1,486.9 (5.5) (103.0) 1,378.4 
Total Wholesale and Competitive
Retail Revenues 922.8 467.0 1,257.0 1,679.7 (5.5) (1,111.3) 3,209.7 
Other Revenues from Contracts with
Customers (b) 163.2 157.8 22.4 2.3 92.5 (148.6) 289.6 
Total Revenues from Contracts with
Customers 8,882.6 4,192.9 1,279.4 1,682.0 87.0 (1,260.6) 14,863.3 
Other Revenues:
Alternative Revenue Programs (d) (3.2) 70.0 (80.6) — — 7.5 (6.3)
Other Revenues (b) (e) — 83.0 — 43.6 9.8 (74.9) 61.5 
Total Other Revenues (3.2) 153.0 (80.6) 43.6 9.8 (67.4) 55.2 
Total Revenues $8,879.4 $ 4,345.9 $ 1,198.8 $ 1,725.6 $ 96.8 $ (1,328.0)$ 14,918.5 
(a) Amounts include affiliated and nonaffiliated revenues. The affiliated revenue for AEP Transmission Holdco was $965 million. The remaining
affiliated amounts were immaterial.
(b) Amounts include affiliated and nonaffiliated revenues.
(c) Amounts include affiliated and nonaffiliated revenues. The affiliated revenue for Generation & Marketing was $103 million. The remaining affiliated
amounts were immaterial.
(d) Alternative revenue programs in certain jurisdictions include regulatory mechanisms that periodically adjust for over/under collection of related
revenues.
(e) Generation & Marketing includes economic hedge activity.
419
The table below represents revenues from contracts with customers, net of respective provisions for refund, by type of
revenue for the Registrant Subsidiaries:
Year Ended December 31, 2022
AEP Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Retail Revenues:
Residential Revenues $ 667.2 $ — $ 1,558.7 $ 852.4 $ 1,830.2 $ 816.3 $ 820.7 
Commercial Revenues 417.5 — 643.4 550.2 947.7 489.2 612.3 
Industrial Revenues (a) 139.6 — 664.0 602.9 571.7 372.5 393.5 
Other Retail Revenues 35.3 — 87.1 5.0 13.9 102.9 10.1 
Total Retail Revenues 1,259.6 — 2,953.2 2,010.5 3,363.5 1,780.9 1,836.6 
Wholesale Revenues:
Generation Revenues (b) — — 299.9 490.0 — 26.5 273.2 
Transmission Revenues (c) 563.8 1,643.5 167.0 36.8 86.2 39.2 148.7 
Total Wholesale Revenues 563.8 1,643.5 466.9 526.8 86.2 65.7 421.9 
Other Revenues from Contracts with
Customers (d) 24.6 8.2 100.6 122.4 222.4 29.1 24.7 
Total Revenues from Contracts with
Customers 1,848.0 1,651.7 3,520.7 2,659.7 3,672.1 1,875.7 2,283.2 
Other Revenues:
Alternative Revenue Programs (e) (1.2) (27.2) (1.3) 10.0 (25.6) (1.0) 1.2 
Other Revenues (a) — — 0.5 (0.1) 18.6 — — 
Total Other Revenues (1.2) (27.2) (0.8) 9.9 (7.0) (1.0) 1.2 
Total Revenues $ 1,846.8 $ 1,624.5 $ 3,519.9 $ 2,669.6 $ 3,665.1 $ 1,874.7 $ 2,284.4 
(a) Amounts include affiliated and nonaffiliated revenues.
(b) Amounts include affiliated and nonaffiliated revenues. The affiliated revenue for APCo was $170 million primarily relating to the PPA with KGPCo.
The remaining affiliated amounts were immaterial.
(c) Amounts include affiliated and nonaffiliated revenues. The affiliated revenue for AEPTCo was $1.3 billion, APCo was $78 million and SWEPCo was
$51 million. The remaining affiliated amounts were immaterial.
(d) Amounts include affiliated and nonaffiliated revenues. The affiliated revenue for I&M was $62 million primarily relating to barging, urea transloading
and other transportation services. The remaining affiliated amounts were immaterial.
(e) Alternative revenue programs in certain jurisdictions include regulatory mechanisms that periodically adjust for over/under collection of related
revenues.
420
Year Ended December 31, 2021
AEP Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Retail Revenues:
Residential Revenues $ 550.3 $ — $ 1,379.6 $ 805.4 $ 1,587.9 $ 651.9 $ 709.5 
Commercial Revenues 358.5 — 556.3 507.2 722.7 378.9 529.3 
Industrial Revenues 108.9 — 584.3 557.0 286.3 274.1 344.4 
Other Retail Revenues 31.3 — 70.8 5.2 12.6 77.7 10.0 
Total Retail Revenues 1,049.0 — 2,591.0 1,874.8 2,609.5 1,382.6 1,593.2 
Wholesale Revenues:
Generation Revenues (a) — — 302.7 318.1 — 22.9 386.6 
Transmission Revenues (b) 497.5 1,393.9 128.8 33.7 74.9 37.5 122.7 
Total Wholesale Revenues 497.5 1,393.9 431.5 351.8 74.9 60.4 509.3 
Other Revenues from Contracts with
Customers (c) 41.2 17.0 70.4 104.1 153.1 31.3 23.5 
Total Revenues from Contracts with
Customers 1,587.7 1,410.9 3,092.9 2,330.7 2,837.5 1,474.3 2,126.0 
Other Revenues:
Alternative Revenue Programs (d) 6.1 58.4 12.3 (4.0) 42.6 0.1 5.8 
Other Revenues (e) — — — — 19.0 — — 
Total Other Revenues 6.1 58.4 12.3 (4.0) 61.6 0.1 5.8 
Total Revenues $ 1,593.8 $ 1,469.3 $ 3,105.2 $ 2,326.7 $ 2,899.1 $ 1,474.4 $ 2,131.8 
(a) Amounts include affiliated and nonaffiliated revenues. The affiliated revenue for APCo was $129 million primarily relating to the PPA with KGPCo.
The remaining affiliated amounts were immaterial.
(b) Amounts include affiliated and nonaffiliated revenues. The affiliated revenue for AEPTCo was $1.1 billion. The remaining affiliated amounts were
immaterial.
(c) Amounts include affiliated and nonaffiliated revenues. The affiliated revenue for I&M was $60 million primarily relating to barging, urea transloading
and other transportation services. The remaining affiliated amounts were immaterial.
(d) Alternative revenue programs in certain jurisdictions include regulatory mechanisms that periodically adjust for over/under collection of related
revenues.
(e) Amounts include affiliated and nonaffiliated revenues.
421
Year Ended December 31, 2020
AEP Texas AEPTCo APCo I&M OPCo PSO SWEPCo
(in millions)
Retail Revenues:
Residential Revenues $ 563.6 $ — $ 1,250.6 $ 794.1 $ 1,523.4 $ 579.4 $ 630.8 
Commercial Revenues 366.7 — 517.0 499.3 682.0 320.1 466.7 
Industrial Revenues 120.1 — 553.5 547.4 270.0 221.1 328.8 
Other Retail Revenues 29.5 — 67.6 6.6 13.1 66.0 9.1 
Total Retail Revenues 1,079.9 — 2,388.7 1,847.4 2,488.5 1,186.6 1,435.4 
Wholesale Revenues:
Generation Revenues (a) — — 230.2 274.6 — 15.1 162.0 
Transmission Revenues (b) 399.9 1,210.3 130.8 29.0 67.0 27.5 111.2 
Total Wholesale Revenues 399.9 1,210.3 361.0 303.6 67.0 42.6 273.2 
Other Revenues from Contracts with
Customers (c) 48.2 22.4 59.5 85.0 109.5 34.7 26.7 
Total Revenues from Contracts with
Customers 1,528.0 1,232.7 2,809.2 2,236.0 2,665.0 1,263.9 1,735.3 
Other Revenues:
Alternative Revenue Programs (d) 3.4 (87.0) (13.0) 5.8 66.6 2.2 3.2 
Other Revenues (e) 87.5 — — — 17.5 — — 
Total Other Revenues 90.9 (87.0) (13.0) 5.8 84.1 2.2 3.2 
Total Revenues $ 1,618.9 $ 1,145.7 $ 2,796.2 $ 2,241.8 $ 2,749.1 $ 1,266.1 $ 1,738.5 
(a) Amounts include affiliated and nonaffiliated revenues. The affiliated revenue for APCo was $112 million primarily relating to the PPA with KGPCo.
The remaining affiliated amounts were immaterial.
(b) Amounts include affiliated and nonaffiliated revenues. The affiliated revenue for AEPTCo was $952 million. The remaining affiliated amounts were
immaterial.
(c) Amounts include affiliated and nonaffiliated revenues. The affiliated revenue for I&M was $69 million primarily relating to barging, urea
transloading and other transportation services. The remaining affiliated amounts were immaterial.
(d) Alternative revenue programs in certain jurisdictions include regulatory mechanisms that periodically adjust for over/under collection of related
revenues.
(e) Amounts include affiliated and nonaffiliated revenues.
Performance Obligations
AEP has performance obligations as part of its normal course of business. A performance obligation is a promise to
transfer a distinct good or service, or a series of distinct goods or services that are substantially the same and have the
same pattern of transfer to a customer. The invoice practical expedient within the accounting guidance for “Revenue
from Contracts with Customers” allows for the recognition of revenue from performance obligations in the amount of
consideration to which there is a right to invoice the customer and when the amount for which there is a right to invoice
corresponds directly to the value transferred to the customer.
The purpose of the invoice practical expedient is to depict an entity’s measure of progress toward completion of the
performance obligation within a contract and can only be applied to performance obligations that are satisfied over time
and when the invoice is representative of services provided to date. AEP subsidiaries elected to apply the invoice
practical expedient to recognize revenue for performance obligations satisfied over time as the invoices from the
respective revenue streams are representative of services or goods provided to date to the customer. Performance
obligations for AEP’s subsidiaries are summarized as follows:
422
Retail Revenues
AEP’s subsidiaries within the Vertically Integrated Utilities and Transmission and Distribution Utilities segments have
performance obligations to generate, transmit and distribute electricity for sale to rate-regulated retail customers. The
performance obligation to deliver electricity is satisfied over time as the customer simultaneously receives and
consumes the benefits provided. Revenues are variable as they are subject to the customer’s usage requirements.
Rate-regulated retail customers typically have the right to discontinue receiving service at will, therefore these contracts
between AEP’s subsidiaries and their customers for rate-regulated services are generally limited to the services
requested and received to date for such arrangements. Retail customers are generally billed on a monthly basis, and
payment is typically due within 15 to 20 days after the issuance of the invoice. Payments from REPs are due to AEP
Texas within 35 days.
Wholesale Revenues - Generation
AEP’s subsidiaries within the Vertically Integrated Utilities and Generation & Marketing segments have performance
obligations to sell electricity to wholesale customers from generation assets in PJM, SPP and ERCOT. The performance
obligation to deliver electricity from generation assets is satisfied over time as the customer simultaneously receives
and consumes the benefits provided. Wholesale generation revenues are variable as they are subject to the customer’s
usage requirements.
AEP’s subsidiaries within the Vertically Integrated Utilities and Generation & Marketing segments also have
performance obligations to stand ready in order to promote grid reliability. Stand ready services are sold into PJM’s
RPM capacity market. RPM entails a base auction and at least three incremental auctions for a specific PJM delivery
year, with the incremental auctions spanning three years. The performance obligation to stand ready is satisfied over
time and the consideration for which is variable until the occurrence of the final incremental auction, at which point the
performance obligation becomes fixed.
Payments from the RTO for stand ready services are typically received within one week from the issuance of the
invoice, which is typically issued weekly. Gross margin resulting from generation sales within the Vertically Integrated
Utilities segment are primarily subject to margin sharing agreements with customers and vary by state, where the
revenues are reflected gross in the disaggregated revenues tables above.
APCo has a performance obligation to supply wholesale electricity to KGPCo through a PPA. The FERC regulates the
cost-based wholesale power transactions between APCo and KGPCo. The purchased power agreement includes a
component for the recovery of transmission costs under the FERC OATT. The transmission cost component of
purchased power is cost-based and regulated by the Tennessee Regulatory Authority. APCo’s performance obligation
under the purchased power agreement is satisfied over time as KGPCo simultaneously receives and consumes the
wholesale electricity. APCo’s revenues from the purchased power agreement are presented within the Generation
Revenues line in the disaggregated revenues tables above.
Wholesale Revenues - Transmission
AEP’s subsidiaries within the Vertically Integrated Utilities, Transmission and Distribution Utilities and AEP
Transmission Holdco segments have performance obligations to transmit electricity to wholesale customers through
assets owned and operated by AEP subsidiaries. The performance obligation to provide transmission services in PJM,
SPP and ERCOT is partially fixed for a period of one year or less. Payments from the RTO for transmission services are
typically received within one week from the issuance of the invoice, which is issued monthly for SPP and ERCOT and
weekly for PJM.
AEP subsidiaries within the PJM and SPP regions collect revenues through transmission formula rates. The FERC-
approved rates establish the annual transmission revenue requirement (ATRR) and transmission service rates for
423
transmission owners. The formula rates establish rates for a one year period and also include a true-up calculation for
the prior year’s billings, allowing for over/under-recovery of the transmission owner’s ATRR. The annual true-ups meet
the definition of alternative revenues in accordance with the accounting guidance for “Regulated Operations,” and are
therefore presented as such in the disaggregated revenues tables above. AEP subsidiaries within the ERCOT region
collect revenues through a combination of base rates and interim Transmission Costs of Services filings that are
approved by the PUCT.
The AEP East Companies are parties to the TA, which defines how transmission costs are allocated among the AEP
East Companies on a 12-month average coincident peak basis. PSO, SWEPCo and AEPSC are parties to the TCA by
and among PSO, SWEPCo and AEPSC, in connection with the operation of the transmission assets of the two AEP
utility subsidiaries. AEPTCo is a transmission owner within the PJM and SPP regions providing transmission services
to affiliates in accordance with the OATT, TA and TCA. Affiliate revenues as a result of the respective TA and the TCA
are reflected as Transmission Revenues in the disaggregated revenues tables above.
Marketing, Competitive Retail and Renewable Revenues
AEP’s subsidiaries within the Generation & Marketing segment have performance obligations to deliver electricity to
competitive retail and wholesale customers. Performance obligations for marketing, competitive retail and renewable
offtake sales are satisfied over time as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided.
Revenues are primarily variable as they are subject to customer’s usage requirements; however, certain contracts
mandate a delivery of a set quantity of electricity at a predetermined price, resulting in a fixed performance obligation.
Payment terms under marketing arrangements typically follow standard Edison Electric Institute and International
Swaps and Derivatives Association terms, which call for payment in 20 days. Payments for competitive retail and
offtake arrangements for renewable assets range from 15 to 60 days and are dependent on the product sold, location and
the creditworthiness of customer. Invoices for marketing arrangements, competitive retail and offtake arrangements for
renewable assets are issued monthly.
Fixed Performance Obligations (Applies to AEP, APCo and I&M)
The following table represents the Registrants’ remaining fixed performance obligations satisfied over time as of
December 31, 2022. Fixed performance obligations primarily include electricity sales for fixed amounts of energy and
stand ready services into PJM’s RPM market. The Registrants elected to apply the exemption to not disclose the value
of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts with an original expected term of one year or less. Due to the
annual establishment of revenue requirements, transmission revenues are excluded from the table below. The Registrant
Subsidiaries amounts shown in the table below include affiliated and nonaffiliated revenues.
Company 2023 2024-2025 2026-2027 After 2027 Total
(in millions)
AEP $ 85.5 $ 157.3 $ 133.9 $ 60.3 $ 437.0 
APCo 16.1 32.2 23.2 11.7 83.2 
I&M 4.6 9.2 9.2 4.5 27.5 
424
Contract Assets and Liabilities
Contract assets are recognized when the Registrants have a right to consideration that is conditional upon the
occurrence of an event other than the passage of time, such as future performance under a contract. The Registrants did
not have any material contract assets as of December 31, 2022 and 2021.
When the Registrants receive consideration, or such consideration is unconditionally due from a customer prior to
transferring goods or services to the customer under the terms of a sales contract, they recognize a contract liability on
the balance sheet in the amount of that consideration. Revenue for such consideration is subsequently recognized in the
period or periods in which the remaining performance obligations in the contract are satisfied. The Registrants’ contract
liabilities typically arise from services provided under joint use agreements for utility poles. The Registrants did not
have any material contract liabilities as of December 31, 2022 and 2021.
Accounts Receivable from Contracts with Customers
Accounts receivable from contracts with customers are presented on the Registrants’ balance sheets within the
Accounts Receivable - Customers line item. The Registrants’ balances for receivables from contracts that are not
recognized in accordance with the accounting guidance for “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” included in
Accounts Receivable - Customers were not material as of December 31, 2022 and 2021. See “Securitized Accounts
Receivable - AEP Credit” section of Note 14 for additional information.
The following table represents the amount of affiliated accounts receivable from contracts with customers included in
Accounts Receivable - Affiliated Companies on the Registrant Subsidiaries’ balance sheets:
Years Ended December 31,
Company 2022 2021
(in millions)
AEP Texas $ 0.1 $ 0.4 
AEPTCo 113.8 95.5 
APCo 64.5 117.8 
I&M 75.3 61.2 
OPCo 49.9 51.7 
PSO 18.8 18.8 
SWEPCo 19.1 24.7 
Contract Costs
Contract costs to obtain or fulfill a contract for AEP subsidiaries within the Generation & Marketing segment are
accounted for under the guidance for “Other Assets and Deferred Costs” and presented as a single asset and are neither
bifurcated nor reclassified between current and noncurrent assets on the Registrants’ balance sheets. Contract costs to
acquire a contract are amortized in a manner consistent with the transfer of goods or services to the customer in Other
Operation on the Registrants’ income statements. The Registrants did not have material contract costs as of
December 31, 2022 and 2021.
425
20.  GOODWILL
The disclosure in this note applies to AEP only.
AEP’s carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 by operating segment are as
follows:
Corporate
and OtherGeneration
&
MarketingAEP
Consolidated
(in millions)
Balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 37.1 $ 15.4 $ 52.5 
Impairment Losses — — — 
Balance as of December 31, 2021 37.1 15.4 52.5 
Impairment Losses — — — 
Balance as of December 31, 2022 $ 37.1 $ 15.4 $ 52.5 
In the fourth quarters of 2022 and 2021, annual impairment tests were performed.  The fair values of the reporting units
with goodwill were estimated using cash flow projections and other market value indicators.  There were no goodwill
impairment losses.  AEP does not have any accumulated impairment on existing goodwill.
426
21.  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
Planned Disposition of the Competitive Contracted Renewables Portfolio (Generation & Marketing Segment)
(Applies to AEP)
In February 2022, AEP management announced the initiation of a process to sell all or a portion of AEP Renewables’
competitive contracted renewables portfolio within the Generation & Marketing segment.
As of December 31, 2022, the competitive contracted renewable portfolio assets totaled 1.4 gigawatts of generation
resources representing consolidated solar and wind assets, with a net book value of $1.2 billion, and a 50% interest in
four joint venture wind farms, totaling $247 million, accounted for as equity method investments.
In late January 2023, AEP received final bids from interested parties. In February 2023, AEP’s Board of Directors
approved management’s plan to sell the competitive contracted renewables portfolio and AEP signed an agreement to
sell the competitive contracted renewables portfolio to a nonaffiliated party for $1.5 billion including the assumption of
project debt. As part of the sale agreement, AEP provided the acquirer an indemnification related to certain losses, not
to exceed $70 million, which could result from one of the joint venture wind farm’s inability to meet certain minimum
performance requirements.
The sale is subject to FERC approval, clearance from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States and
approval under applicable competition laws. AEP expects to close on the sale in the second quarter of 2023 and receive
cash proceeds, net of taxes, transaction fees and other customary closing adjustments, of approximately $1.2 billion.
Management concluded the consolidated assets within the competitive contracted renewables portfolio met the
accounting requirements to be presented as Held for Sale in the first quarter of 2023 based on the receipt of final bids,
Board of Director approval to consummate a sale transaction and the signing of the sale agreement. AEP anticipates
recording an estimated pretax loss ranging from $175 million to $225 million ($100 million to $150 million after-tax),
in the first quarter of 2023 as a result of reaching Held for Sale status. Management concluded the impact of any other
than temporary decline in the fair value of the four joint venture wind farms was not material to AEP’s December 31,
2022 financial statements. Any changes to the book value or carrying value of these assets, or the anticipated sale price,
could further reduce future net income and impact financial condition.
427
ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
AEP, AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo
Information required by this item is set forth under the caption Proposal to Ratify the Appointment of the Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm in the 2023 Proxy Statement, which is incorporated by reference into this item.
ITEM 9A.   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
During 2022, management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer of each of the
Registrants evaluated each respective Registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures.  Disclosure controls and
procedures are defined as controls and other procedures of the Registrant that are designed to ensure that information
required to be disclosed by the Registrants in the reports that they file or submit under the Exchange Act are recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Commission’s rules and forms.  Disclosure
controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information
required to be disclosed by the Registrants in the reports that they file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated
and communicated to each Registrant’s management, including the principal executive and principal financial officers,
or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
As of December 31, 2022, the principal executive officer and financial officer of each of the Registrants concluded that
the disclosure controls and procedures in place were effective at the reasonable assurance level.  The Registrants
continually strive to improve their disclosure controls and procedures to enhance the quality of their financial reporting
and to maintain dynamic systems that change as events warrant.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
There have been no changes in the Registrants’ internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rule
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the fourth quarter 2022 that materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrants’ internal control over financial reporting.
Internal Control over Financial Reporting
See Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting for each Registrant under Item 8. As discussed
in that report, management assessed and reported on the effectiveness of each Registrant’s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2022.  As a result of that assessment, management concluded that each
Registrant’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2022.
ITEM 9B.   OTHER INFORMATION
None.
ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS
None.
428
PART III
ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
AEP
Directors, Director Nomination Process and Audit Committee
Certain of the information called for in this Item 10, including the information relating to directors, is incorporated
herein by reference to AEP’s definitive proxy information statement (which will be filed with the SEC pursuant to
Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act) relating to the 2023 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the 2023 Annual
Meeting) including under the captions “Election of Directors,” “AEP’s Board of Directors and Committees,”
“Directors” and “Nominees for Directors.”
Executive Officers
Reference also is made under the caption “Information About our Executive Officers” in Part I, Item 1 of this report.
Code of Ethics
AEP’s Principles of Business Conduct is the code of ethics that applies to AEP’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer and principal accounting officer.  The Principles of Business Conduct is available on AEP’s website at
www.aep.com.  The Principles of Business Conduct will be made available, without charge, in print to any shareholder
who requests such document from Investor Relations, American Electric Power Company, Inc., 1 Riverside Plaza,
Columbus, Ohio 43215.
If any substantive amendments to the Principles of Business Conduct are made or any waivers are granted, including
any implicit waiver, from a provision of the Principles of Business Conduct, to its Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer or principal accounting officer, AEP will disclose the nature of such amendment or waiver on AEP’s
website, www.aep.com, or in a report on Form 8-K.
Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports
None.
AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo
Omitted pursuant to Instruction I(2)(c).
ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
AEP
The information called for by this Item 11 is incorporated herein by reference to AEP’s definitive proxy statement
(which will be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act) relating to the 2023 Annual
Meeting including under the captions “Compensation Discussion and Analysis,” “Executive Compensation”, “Director
Compensation” and “2022 Director Compensation Table”.  The information set forth under the subcaption “Human
Resources Committee Report” and “Audit Committee Report” should not be deemed filed nor should it be incorporated
by reference into any other filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act except to the
extent AEP specifically incorporates such report by reference therein.
429
AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo
Omitted pursuant to Instruction I(2)(c).
ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
AEP
The information relating to Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners is incorporated herein by reference to
AEP’s definitive proxy statement (which will be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange
Act) relating to 2023 Annual Meeting under the caption “Share Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners” and “Share
Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers.”
EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION
The following table summarizes the ability of AEP to issue common stock pursuant to equity compensation plans as of
December 31, 2022:
Plan CategoryNumber of
Securities to be
Issued upon Exercise
of Outstanding
Options Warrants
and Rights (a)Weighted-Average
Exercise Price of
Outstanding
Options, Warrants
and Rights (b)Number of Securities
Remaining
Available for Future
Issuance under Equity
Compensation Plans
Equity Compensation Plans Approved
by Security Holders 2,422,526 — 5,249,391 
Equity Compensation Plans Not
Approved by Security Holders — — — 
Total 2,422,526 — 5,249,391 
(a)The balance includes unvested performance shares and restricted stock units as well as vested performance shares
deferred as AEP career shares, all of which will be settled and paid in shares of AEP common stock. For
performance shares, the total includes the target number of shares that could be granted if performance meets
target objectives. The number of securities that would be granted, with respect to performance shares, if
performance meets the maximum payout level, is two times the amount included in this total.
(b)No consideration is required from participants for the exercise or vesting of any outstanding AEP equity
compensation awards.
AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo
Omitted pursuant to Instruction I(2)(c).
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR
INDEPENDENCE
AEP
The information called for by this Item 13 is incorporated herein by reference to AEP’s definitive proxy statement
(which will be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act) relating to the 2023 Annual
Meeting under the captions “Transactions with Related Persons” and “Director Independence.”
AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo
Omitted pursuant to Instruction I(2)(c).
430
ITEM 14.   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES
AEP
The information called for by this Item 14 is incorporated herein by reference to AEP’s definitive proxy statement
(which will be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act) relating to the 2023 Annual
Meeting under the captions “Audit and Non-Audit Fees,” “Audit Committee Report” and “Policy on Audit Committee
Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Auditor.”
AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo
Each of the above is a wholly-owned subsidiary of AEP and does not have a separate audit committee. A description of
the AEP Audit Committee pre-approval policies, which apply to these companies, is contained in the definitive proxy
statement of AEP for the 2023 Annual Meeting of shareholders. The following table presents directly billed fees for
professional services rendered by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the audit of these companies’ annual financial
statements for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, and fees directly billed for other services rendered by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP during those periods. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP also provides additional professional
and other services to the AEP System, the cost of which may ultimately be allocated to these companies though not
billed directly to them. For a description of these fees and services, see the description of principal accounting fees and
services for AEP above.
 AEP  Texas AEPTCo APCo
 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
Audit Fees $ 1,309,196 $ 1,279,272 $ 1,492,709 $ 1,443,675 $ 1,682,664 $ 1,702,193 
Audit-Related Fees 65,222 42,000 — — 70,294 47,143 
Tax Fees — 15,122 — 15,347 — 19,603 
Total $ 1,374,418 $ 1,336,394 $ 1,492,709 $ 1,459,022 $ 1,752,958 $ 1,768,939 
 I&M OPCo PSO
 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
Audit Fees $ 1,453,010 $ 1,637,968 $ 1,053,853 $ 1,169,647 $ 861,937 $ 729,463 
Audit-Related Fees 11,009 11,143 11,009 11,143 160,294 5,143 
Tax Fees — 17,848 — 12,923 — 6,991 
Total $ 1,464,019 $ 1,666,959 $ 1,064,862 $ 1,193,713 $ 1,022,231 $ 741,597 
 SWEPCo
 2022 2021
Audit Fees $ 1,012,800 $ 1,118,206 
Audit-Related Fees 26,821 27,143 
Tax Fees — 11,848 
Total $ 1,039,621 $ 1,157,197 
431
PART IV
ITEM 15.   EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
The following documents are filed as a part of this report:
(a)(1) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:
The following financial statements have been incorporated herein by reference pursuant to Item 8.
AEP and Subsidiary Companies:
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm; Management’s Report on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting; Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and
2020; Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the years ended December 31, 2022,
2021 and 2020; Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity for the years ended December 31, 2022,
2021 and 2020; Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2022 and 2021; Consolidated Statements
of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020; Notes to Financial Statements of
Registrants.
AEP Texas, APCo and I&M:
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm; Management’s Report on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting; Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and
2020; Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the years ended December 31, 2022,
2021 and 2020; Consolidated Statements of Changes in Common Shareholder’s Equity for the years ended
December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020; Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2022 and 2021;
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020; Notes to
Financial Statements of Registrants.
AEPTCo:
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm; Management’s Report on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting; Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and
2020; Consolidated Statements of Changes in Member’s Equity for the years ended December 31, 2022,
2021 and 2020; Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2022 and 2021; Consolidated Statements
of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020; Notes to Financial Statements of
Registrants.
OPCo:
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm; Management’s Report on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting; Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and
2020; Consolidated Statements of Changes in Common Shareholder’s Equity for the years ended December
31, 2022, 2021 and 2020; Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2022 and 2021; Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020; Notes to Financial
Statements of Registrants.
PSO:
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm; Management’s Report on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting; Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020;
Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020;
Statements of Changes in Common Shareholder’s Equity for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and
2020; Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2022 and 2021; Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020; Notes to Financial Statements of Registrants.
432
SWEPCo:
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm; Management’s Report on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting; Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and
2020; Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the years ended December 31, 2022,
2021 and 2020; Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity for the years ended December 31, 2022,
2021 and 2020; Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2022 and 2021; Consolidated Statements
of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020; Notes to Financial Statements of
Registrants.
(a)(2) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES:Page
Number
Schedule I
Condensed Financial Information of American Electric Power Company, Inc. (Parent) 
Condensed Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income- Years Ended
December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020S-2
Condensed Balance Sheets - December 31, 2022 and 2021 S-3
Condensed Statements of Cash Flows - Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 S-5
Condensed Notes to Condensed Financial Information S-6
Schedule II
AEP
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves - Years Ended
December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020S-14
Schedule I
Condensed Financial Information of AEP Transmission Company, LLC (AEPTCo
Parent)
Condensed Statements of Income - Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 S-16
Condensed Balance Sheets - December 31, 2022 and 2021 S-17
Condensed Statements of Cash Flows - Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 S-19
Condensed Notes to Condensed Financial Information S-20
Certain schedules have been omitted because the required information is contained in the
notes to financial statements or because such schedules are not required or are not
applicable.
(a)(3) EXHIBITS:
Exhibits for AEP, AEP Texas, AEPTCo, APCo, I&M, OPCo, PSO and SWEPCo are
listed in the Exhibit Index beginning on page E-1 and are incorporated herein by
reference.E-1
ITEM 16.   FORM 10-K SUMMARY
None.
433
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 American Electric Power Company, Inc.
   
 By: /s/   Ann P. Kelly
  (Ann P. Kelly, Executive Vice President
  and Chief Financial Officer)
Date: February 23, 2023
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
Signature  Title  Date
     
(i) Principal Executive Officer:     
     
 /s/   Julia A. Sloat  President, Chief Executive Officer
and Director February 23, 2023
(Julia A. Sloat)    
     
(ii) Principal Financial Officer:     
     
/s/   Ann P. Kelly  Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer February 23, 2023
(Ann P. Kelly)    
     
(iii) Principal Accounting Officer:     
     
/s/   Joseph M. Buonaiuto  Senior Vice President, Controller and
Chief Accounting Officer February 23, 2023
(Joseph M. Buonaiuto)    
     
(iv)           A Majority of the Directors:     
     
*Nicholas K. Akins     
*J. Barnie Beasley, Jr.     
*Benjamin G.S. Fowke, III     
*Art A. Garcia
*Linda A. Goodspeed     
*Donna A. James     
*Sandra Beach Lin     
*Margaret M. McCarthy
*Oliver G. Richard, III
*Daryl Roberts
*Julia A. Sloat
*Sara Martinez Tucker     
*Lewis Von Thaer
     
*By: /s/   Ann P. Kelly    February 23, 2023
 (Ann P. Kelly, Attorney-in-Fact)     
434
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  The signature
of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any
subsidiaries thereof.
AEP Texas Inc.
   
 By: /s/   Ann P. Kelly
  (Ann P. Kelly, Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer)
Date: February 23, 2023
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.  The signature of
each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to the above-named company
and any subsidiaries thereof.
Signature  Title  Date
     
(i) Principal Executive Officer:     
     
/s/   Julia A. Sloat  Chair of the Board, Chief Executive
Officer and Director February 23, 2023
(Julia A. Sloat)    
     
(ii) Principal Financial Officer:     
     
/s/   Ann P. Kelly  Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
and Director February 23, 2023
(Ann P. Kelly)    
     
(iii) Principal Accounting Officer:     
     
/s/   Joseph M. Buonaiuto  Controller and Chief Accounting Officer February 23, 2023
(Joseph M. Buonaiuto)    
     
(iv) A Majority of the Directors:     
     
*Christian T. Beam     
*Paul Chodak, III
*David M. Feinberg     
Ann P. Kelly     
*Therace M. Risch
*Peggy I. Simmons
*Julia A. Sloat
*Rajagopalan Sundararajan
*Judith E. Talavera
 *Toby L. Thomas     
*Phillip R. Ulrich
*By: /s/   Ann P. Kelly    February 23, 2023
(Ann P. Kelly, Attorney-in-Fact)     
435
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  The signature
of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any
subsidiaries thereof.
 AEP Transmission Company, LLC
   
 By: /s/   Ann P. Kelly
  (Ann P. Kelly, Vice President
  and Chief Financial Officer)
Date: February 23, 2023
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.  The signature of
each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to the above-named company
and any subsidiaries thereof.
Signature  Title  Date
     
(i) Principal Executive Officer:     
     
/s/   Julia A. Sloat  Chair of the Board, Chief Executive
Officer and Manager February 23, 2023
(Julia A. Sloat)    
     
(ii) Principal Financial Officer:     
     
/s/   Ann P. Kelly  Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
and Manager February 23, 2023
(Ann P. Kelly)    
     
(iii) Principal Accounting Officer:     
     
/s/   Joseph M. Buonaiuto  Controller and Chief Accounting Officer February 23, 2023
(Joseph M. Buonaiuto)    
     
(iv) A Majority of the Managers:     
     
*David M. Feinberg     
Ann P. Kelly
*Scott P. Moore     
*Julia A. Sloat
*Toby L. Thomas
*By: /s/   Ann P. Kelly    February 23, 2023
(Ann P. Kelly, Attorney-in-Fact)     
436
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  The signature
of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any
subsidiaries thereof.
 Appalachian Power Company
   
 By: /s/   Ann P. Kelly
  (Ann P. Kelly, Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer)
Date: February 23, 2023
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.  The signature of
each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to the above-named company
and any subsidiaries thereof.
Signature  Title  Date
     
(i) Principal Executive Officer:     
     
/s/   Julia A. Sloat  Chair of the Board, Chief Executive
Officer and Director February 23, 2023
(Julia A. Sloat)    
     
(ii) Principal Financial Officer:     
     
/s/   Ann P. Kelly  Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
and Director February 23, 2023
(Ann P. Kelly)    
     
(iii) Principal Accounting Officer:     
     
/s/   Joseph M. Buonaiuto  Controller and Chief Accounting Officer February 23, 2023
(Joseph M. Buonaiuto)    
     
(iv) A Majority of the Directors:     
     
*Christian T. Beam
*Paul Chodak, III
*David M. Feinberg     
Ann P. Kelly     
*Therace M. Risch
*Peggy I. Simmons
*Julia A. Sloat
*Rajagopalan Sundararajan
 *Toby L. Thomas     
*Phillip R. Ulrich
*Aaron D. Walker
*By: /s/   Ann P. Kelly    February 23, 2023
(Ann P. Kelly, Attorney-in-Fact)     
437
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  The signature
of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any
subsidiaries thereof.
 Indiana Michigan Power Company
   
 By: /s/ Ann P. Kelly
  (Ann P. Kelly, Vice President,
  and Chief Financial Officer)
Date: February 23, 2023
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.  The signature of
each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to the above-named company
and any subsidiaries thereof.
Signature  Title  Date
     
(i) Principal Executive Officer:     
     
/s/   Julia A. Sloat  Chair of the Board, Chief Executive
Officer and Director February 23, 2023
(Julia A. Sloat)    
     
(ii) Principal Financial Officer:     
     
/s/   Ann P. Kelly  Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
and Director February 23, 2023
(Ann P. Kelly)    
     
(iii) Principal Accounting Officer:     
     
/s/   Joseph M. Buonaiuto  Controller and Chief Accounting Officer February 23, 2023
(Joseph M. Buonaiuto)    
     
(iv) A Majority of the Directors:     
     
*Steven F. Baker
*Katherine K. Davis
*Nicholas M. Elkins
*David S. Isaacson
Ann P. Kelly
*Peggy I. Simmons
*Julia A. Sloat     
*Toby L. Thomas
*Andrew J. Williamson
*By: /s/   Ann P. Kelly    February 23, 2023
(Ann P. Kelly, Attorney-in-Fact)     
438
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  The signature
of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any
subsidiaries thereof.
 Ohio Power Company
   
 By: /s/   Ann P. Kelly
  (Ann P. Kelly, Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer)
Date: February 23, 2023
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.  The signature of
each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to the above-named company
and any subsidiaries thereof.
Signature  Title  Date
     
(i) Principal Executive Officer:     
     
/s/  Julia A. Sloat  Chair of the Board, Chief Executive
Officer and Director February 23, 2023
(Julia A. Sloat)    
     
(ii) Principal Financial Officer:     
     
/s/   Ann P. Kelly  Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
and Director February 23, 2023
(Ann P. Kelly)    
     
(iii) Principal Accounting Officer:     
     
/s/   Joseph M. Buonaiuto  Controller and Chief Accounting Officer February 23, 2023
(Joseph M. Buonaiuto)    
     
(iv) A Majority of the Directors:     
     
*Christian T. Beam     
*Paul Chodak, III
*David M. Feinberg     
Ann P. Kelly     
*Marc D. Reitter
*Therace M. Risch
*Peggy I. Simmons
*Julia A. Sloat
*Rajagopalan Sundararajan
 *Toby L. Thomas     
*Phillip R. Ulrich
*By: /s/   Ann P. Kelly    February 23, 2023
(Ann P. Kelly, Attorney-in-Fact)     
439
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  The signature
of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any
subsidiaries thereof.
 Public Service Company of Oklahoma
   
 By: /s/   Ann P. Kelly
  (Ann P. Kelly, Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer)
Date: February 23, 2023
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.  The signature of
each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to the above-named company
and any subsidiaries thereof.
Signature  Title  Date
     
(i) Principal Executive Officer:     
     
/s/   Julia A. Sloat  Chair of the Board, Chief Executive
Officer and Director February 23, 2023
(Julia A. Sloat)    
     
(ii) Principal Financial Officer:     
     
/s/   Ann P. Kelly  Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
and Director February 23, 2023
(Ann P. Kelly)    
     
(iii) Principal Accounting Officer:     
     
/s/   Joseph M. Buonaiuto  Controller and Chief Accounting Officer February 23, 2023
(Joseph M. Buonaiuto)    
     
(iv) A Majority of the Directors:     
     
*Christian T. Beam     
*Paul Chodak, III
*David M. Feinberg     
Ann P. Kelly     
*Therace M. Risch
*Peggy I. Simmons
*Julia A. Sloat
*Leigh Anne Strahler
*Rajagopalan Sundararajan
 *Toby L. Thomas     
*Phillip R. Ulrich
*By: /s/   Ann P. Kelly    February 23, 2023
(Ann P. Kelly, Attorney-in-Fact)     
440
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  The signature
of the undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any
subsidiaries thereof.
 Southwestern Electric Power Company
   
 By: /s/   Ann P. Kelly
  (Ann P. Kelly, Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer)
Date: February 23, 2023
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.  The signature of
each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to the above-named company
and any subsidiaries thereof.
Signature  Title  Date
     
(i) Principal Executive Officer:     
     
/s/   Julia A. Sloat  Chair of the Board, Chief Executive
Officer and Director February 23, 2023
(Julia A. Sloat)    
     
(ii) Principal Financial Officer:     
     
/s/   Ann P. Kelly  Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
and Director February 23, 2023
(Ann P. Kelly)    
     
(iii) Principal Accounting Officer:     
     
/s/   Joseph M. Buonaiuto  Controller and Chief Accounting Officer February 23, 2023
(Joseph M. Buonaiuto)    
     
(iv) A Majority of the Directors:     
     
*Christian T. Beam     
*Paul Chodak, III
*David M. Feinberg     
Ann P. Kelly     
*D. Brett Mattison
*Therace M. Risch
*Peggy I. Simmons
*Julia A. Sloat
*Rajagopalan Sundararajan
 *Toby L. Thomas     
*Phillip R. Ulrich
*By: /s/   Ann P. Kelly    February 23, 2023
(Ann P. Kelly, Attorney-in-Fact)     
441
INDEX OF FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
Page
Number
The following financial statement schedules are included in this report on the pages indicated:
 
American Electric Power Company, Inc. (Parent):
Schedule I – Condensed Financial Information S-2
Schedule I – Index of Condensed Notes to Condensed Financial Information S-6
 
American Electric Power Company, Inc. and Subsidiary Companies:
Schedule II – Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves S-14
S-1
SCHEDULE I
AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY, INC. (Parent)
CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF INCOME AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions, except per-share and share amounts)
 Years Ended December  31,
 2022 2021 2020
REVENUES    
Affiliated Revenues $ 4.5 $ 8.4 $ 8.7 
Other Revenues 0.8 0.9 1.1 
MTM – Interest Rate Hedge 6.9 1.4 (5.4)
Affiliated MTM – Interest Rate Hedge (7.1) (4.0) 5.4 
TOTAL REVENUES 5.1 6.7 9.8 
EXPENSES    
Other Operation 84.9 42.7 21.4 
Loss on the Expected Sale of the Kentucky Operations 363.3 — — 
Depreciation and Amortization 0.4 0.4 0.3 
TOTAL EXPENSES 448.6 43.1 21.7 
OPERA TING LOSS (443.5) (36.4) (11.9)
Other  Income (Expense):    
Interest Income 80.3 18.9 39.2 
Interest Expense (275.5) (169.3) (178.5)
LOSS BEFORE INCOME TAX BENEFIT  AND EQUITY  EARNINGS (638.7) (186.8) (151.2)
Income Tax Benefit (136.3) (73.5) (0.6)
Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries 2,809.6 2,601.4 2,350.7 
NET  INCOME 2,307.2 2,488.1 2,200.1 
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (101.1) 269.9 62.6 
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME $ 2,206.1 $ 2,758.0 $ 2,262.7 
WEIGHTED AVERAGE NUMBER OF  BASIC AEP  COMMON SHARES
OUTST ANDING 511,841,946 500,522,177 495,718,223 
TOTAL BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE ATTRIBUT ABLE TO AEP  COMMON
SHAREHOLDERS $ 4.51 $ 4.97 $ 4.44 
WEIGHTED AVERAGE NUMBER OF  DILUTED AEP  COMMON SHARES
OUTST ANDING 513,484,609 501,784,032 497,226,867 
TOTAL DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE ATTRIBUT ABLE TO AEP
COMMON SHAREHOLDERS $ 4.49 $ 4.96 $ 4.42 
See Condensed Notes to Condensed Financial Information beginning on page S- 6.
S-2
SCHEDULE I
AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY, INC. (Parent)
CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS
ASSETS
December 31, 2022 and 2021
(in millions)
 December  31,
 2022 2021
CURRENT  ASSETS   
Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 254.2 $ 247.3 
Other Temporary Investments 2.5 2.3 
Advances to Affiliates 4,012.1 2,600.8 
Accounts Receivable:
Affiliated Companies 78.6 17.7 
General 0.5 0.4 
Total Accounts Receivable 79.1 18.1 
Accrued Tax Benefits 39.3 40.1 
Assets Held for Sale 706.6 946.2 
Prepayments and Other Current Assets 17.7 3.3 
TOTAL CURRENT  ASSETS 5,111.5 3,858.1 
PROPER TY, PLANT  AND EQUIPMENT   
General 2.7 2.3 
Total Pr operty , Plant and Equipment 2.7 2.3 
Accumulated Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization 1.2 1.1 
TOTAL PROPER TY, PLANT  AND EQUIPMENT  – NET 1.5 1.2 
OTHER NONCURRENT  ASSETS   
Investments in Unconsolidated Subsidiaries 30,543.2 27,984.0 
Affiliated Notes Receivable 85.0 65.0 
Deferred Char ges and Other Noncurrent Assets 130.4 130.6 
TOTAL OTHER NONCURRENT  ASSETS 30,758.6 28,179.6 
TOTAL ASSETS $ 35,871.6 $ 32,038.9 
See Condensed Notes to Condensed Financial Information beginning on page S- 6.
S-3
SCHEDULE I
AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY, INC. (Parent)
CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
December 31, 2022 and 2021
(dollars in millions)
December  31,
 2022 2021
CURRENT  LIABILITIES  
Advances from Affiliates $ 919.9 $ 583.0 
Accounts Payable:
General 5.1 5.7 
Affiliated Companies 34.2 32.5 
Short-term Debt 3,362.2 1,864.0 
Long-term Debt Due Within One Year – Nonaf filiated 1,050.0 308.9 
Accrued Taxes — 102.1 
Other Current Liabilities 126.3 72.9 
TOTAL CURRENT  LIABILITIES 5,497.7 2,969.1 
NONCURRENT  LIABILITIES   
Long-term Debt – Nonaf filiated 6,322.5 6,460.4 
Deferred Credits and Other Noncurrent Liabilities 112.1 132.9 
TOTAL NONCURRENT  LIABILITIES 6,434.6 6,593.3 
TOTAL LIABILITIES 11,932.3 9,562.4 
MEZZANINE EQUITY
Contingently Redeemable Performance Share Awards 45.9 43.3 
COMMON SHAREHOLDERS’  EQUITY   
Common Stock – Par Value – $6.50 Per Share:   
 2022 2021   
Shares Authorized 600,000,000 600,000,000   
Shares Issued 525,099,321 524,416,175   
(11,233,240 and 20,204,160 Shares were Held in Treasury as of December 31, 2022 and 2021,
Respectively) 3,413.1 3,408.7 
Paid-in Capital 8,051.0 7,172.6 
Retained Earnings 12,345.6 11,667.1 
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 83.7 184.8 
TOTAL AEP  COMMON SHAREHOLDERS’  EQUITY 23,893.4 22,433.2 
TOTAL LIABILITIES, MEZZANINE EQUITY  AND TOTAL EQUITY $ 35,871.6 $ 32,038.9 
See Condensed Notes to Condensed Financial Information beginning on page S- 6.
S-4
SCHEDULE I
AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY, INC. (Parent)
CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
 Years Ended December  31,
 2022 2021 2020
OPERA TING ACTIVITIES    
Net Income $ 2,307.2 $ 2,488.1 $ 2,200.1 
Adjustments to Reconcile Net Income to Net Cash Flows fr om Operating
Activities:
Depreciation and Amortization 0.4 0.4 0.3 
Deferred Income Taxes (63.3) (63.9) 8.2 
Loss on the Expected Sale of the Kentucky Operations 363.3 — — 
Interest Rate Hedge Settlement — — 57.5 
Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries (2,809.6) (2,601.4) (2,350.7)
Cash Dividends Received from Unconsolidated Subsidiaries 603.9 787.2 454.0 
Change in Other Noncurrent Assets (5.0) (3.5) 1.1 
Change in Other Noncurrent Liabilities 83.5 94.0 39.2 
Changes in Certain Components of Working Capital:
Accounts Receivable, Net (61.0) 18.4 (24.5)
Accounts Payable 1.1 27.2 2.1 
Other Current Assets (6.0) (0.5) 1.3 
Other Current Liabilities (76.6) 77.9 (55.8)
Net Cash Flows fr om Operating Activities 337.9 823.9 332.8 
INVESTING ACTIVITIES    
Construction Expenditures (0.7) (0.5) (0.2)
Change in Advances to Affiliates, Net (1,41 1.3) 562.9 (965.8)
Capital Contributions to Unconsolidated Subsidiaries (568.3) (1,185.0) (436.5)
Return of Capital Contributions from Unconsolidated Subsidiaries 24.5 — — 
Issuance of Notes Receivable to Unconsolidated Subsidiaries (20.0) — (26.0)
Repayment of Notes Receivable from Unconsolidated Subsidiaries — 92.3 20.0 
Other Investing Activities (0.2) — 2.7 
Net Cash Flows Used for  Investing Activities (1,976.0) (530.3) (1,405.8)
FINANCING ACTIVITIES    
Issuance of Common Stock, Net 826.5 600.5 155.0 
Issuance of Long-term Debt 986.6 915.0 3,113.9 
Issuance of Short-term Debt with Original Maturities Greater Than 90 Days 833.9 1,393.3 1,396.5 
Change in Short-term Debt with Original Maturities Less Than 90 Day , Net 1,650.4 (610.3) (347.1)
Retirement of Long-term Debt (300.0) (400.0) (500.0)
Change in Advances from Affiliates, Net 336.9 135.8 194.6 
Redemption of Short-term Debt with Original Maturities Greater Than 90 Days (986.1) (771.3) (1,307.1)
Dividends Paid on Common Stock (1,628.7) (1,507.7) (1,415.0)
Other Financing Activities (74.5) (101.3) (74.2)
Net Cash Flows fr om (Used for) Financing Activities 1,645.0 (346.0) 1,216.6 
Net Incr ease (Decr ease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 6.9 (52.4) 143.6 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Period 247.3 299.7 156.1 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Period $ 254.2 $ 247.3 $ 299.7 
See Condensed Notes to Condensed Financial Information beginning on page S-6.
S-5
SCHEDULE I
AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY, INC. (Parent)
INDEX OF CONDENSED NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
1.   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
 
2.   Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies
 
3.   Financing Activities
 
4.   Related Party Transactions
S-6
1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of Presentation
The condensed financial information of Parent is required as a result of the restricted net assets of AEP consolidated
subsidiaries exceeding 25% of AEP consolidated net assets as of December 31, 2022.  Parent is a public utility holding
company that owns all of the outstanding common stock of its public utility subsidiaries and varying percentages of
other subsidiaries, including joint ventures and equity investments.  The primary source of income for Parent is equity
in its subsidiaries’ earnings.  Its major source of cash is dividends from the subsidiaries, which are evaluated for cash
flow presentation based on the nature of the distribution.  Parent borrows the funds for the money pool that is used by
the subsidiaries for their short-term cash needs. Parent financial statements should be read in conjunction with the AEP
consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes thereto. For purposes of these condensed financial
statements, AEP wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries are recorded based upon its proportionate share of the
subsidiaries’ net assets (similar to presenting them on the equity method).
Income Taxes
Parent files a consolidated federal income tax return with its subsidiaries. Historically, the allocation of the AEP
System’s current consolidated federal income tax to the AEP System companies allocated the benefit of current tax loss
of the parent company (Parent Company Loss Benefit) to the AEP System subsidiaries through a reduction of current
tax expense. In the first quarter of 2022, AEP and subsidiaries changed accounting for the Parent Company Loss
Benefit from a reduction of current tax expense to an allocation through equity. The impact of this change was
immaterial to the Subsidiaries’ financial statements. The consolidated NOL of the AEP System is allocated to each
company in the consolidated group with taxable income. With the exception of the allocation of the consolidated AEP
System NOL, the loss of the Parent and tax credits, the method of allocation reflects a separate return result for each
company in the consolidated group.
Disposition of KPCo and KTCo
AEP Parent holds a direct investment in KPCo and an indirect investment in KTCo through its direct investment in
AEPTHCo. In October 2021, AEP entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement (SPA) to sell KPCo and KTCo to Liberty
Utilities Co., a subsidiary of Algonquin Power & Utilities Corp. (Liberty), for approximately a $2.85 billion enterprise
value. In May 2022, the KPSC approved the transfer of KPCo to Liberty subject to certain conditions contingent upon
the closing of the sale. AEP has received clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976
(HSR) and the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States during 2022. Clearance under the HSR expired in
January 2023. AEP and Liberty refiled a joint application seeking HSR clearance in February 2023. The sale is also
contingent upon FERC approval under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act. The parties to the SPA have certain
termination rights if the closing of the sale does not occur by April 26, 2023.
Transfer of Ownership
FERC Proceedings
In December 2021, Liberty, KPCo and KTCo (the applicants) requested FERC approval of the sale under Section 203
of the Federal Power Act. In February 2022, several intervenors in the case filed protests related to whether the sale will
negatively impact the wholesale transmission rates of applicants. In April 2022, the FERC issued a deficiency letter
stating that the Section 203 application is deficient and that additional information is required to process it. In May
2022, Liberty, KPCo and KTCo supplemented the application. In December 2022, the FERC issued an order denying,
without prejudice, authorization of the proposed sale stating the applicants failed to demonstrate the proposed
transaction will not have an adverse effect on rates.
S-7
In January 2023, AEP, AEPTCo, and Liberty entered into an amendment to the SPA that specified the applicants will
submit a new filing for approval under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act. The new filing was submitted to the
FERC on February 14, 2023. The applicants requested expedited treatment of the new filing, including an accelerated
comment period. In response, the FERC granted a shortened 45 day comment period. The applicants believe the new
Section 203 application addresses the concerns raised in the FERC’s December 2022 order. The application contains
several additional commitments by Liberty to mitigate potential adverse impacts on FERC jurisdictional rates over the
next five years, including: a) maintaining the current return on equity; b) maintaining the current cost cap on equity; c)
financing future investments at the current credit rating; and d) capping certain operating and administrative costs. The
sale remains subject to FERC approval. The statute requires an order from the FERC within 180 days of the February
14, 2023 filing date in accordance with Section 203 of the Federal Power Act.
KPSC Proceedings
In May 2022, the KPSC approved the transfer of KPCo to Liberty subject to conditions contingent upon the closing of
the sale, including establishment of regulatory liabilities to subsidize retail customer transmission and distribution
expenses, a fuel adjustment clause bill credit, and a three-year Big Sandy decommissioning rider rate holiday during
which KPCo’s carrying charge is reduced by 50%.
Summary
As a result of the conditions imposed by the KPSC’s May 2022 order, in the second quarter of 2022, Parent recorded a
$69 million loss on the expected sale of the Kentucky Operations in accordance with accounting guidance for Fair
Value Measurement.
In September 2022, AEP, AEPTCo and Liberty entered into an amendment to the SPA which reduced the purchase price
to approximately $2.646 billion and Liberty agreed to waive, upon FERC approval of the sale, the SPA condition
precedent to closing requiring the issuance of regulatory orders approving new proposed Mitchell Plant agreements.
Further, as a result of the reduced purchase price from the September Amendment and the change to the anticipated
timing of the completion of the transaction, Parent recorded an additional $194 million pretax loss ($149 million net of
tax) on the expected sale of the Kentucky Operations in the third quarter of 2022 in accordance with the accounting
guidance for Fair Value Measurement.
As a result of the December 2022 FERC order and resulting delay in the anticipated timing of the closing of the
transaction, Parent recorded an additional $100 million pretax loss ($79 million net of tax) on the expected sale of the
Kentucky Operations in December 2022 in accordance with the accounting guidance for Fair Value Measurement. In
total, AEP recorded a $363 million pretax loss of ($297 million net of tax) on the expected sale of the Kentucky
Operations for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022.
Management believes it is probable that FERC authorization under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act will be
received and closing will occur after receipt of the order. Therefore, the assets and liabilities of KPCo and KTCo were
classified as Held for Sale in the December 31, 2022 balance sheet of Parent. Upon closing, Liberty will acquire the
assets and assume the liabilities of KPCo and KTCo, excluding pension and other post-retirement benefit plan assets
and liabilities. AEP expects to provide customary transition services to Liberty for a period of time after closing of the
transaction. AEP expects cash proceeds, net of taxes and transaction fees, from the sale of approximately $1.2 billion.
AEP plans to use the proceeds from the sale to fund its continued investment in regulated businesses, including
transmission and regulated renewables projects. If additional reductions in the fair value of the Kentucky Operations
occur, it would reduce future net income and cash flows.
S-8
The major classes of KPCo and KTCo’s assets and liabilities presented in Assets Held for Sale and Liabilities Held for
Sale on the balance sheets of Parent as of December 31, 2022 are shown in the table below.
December 31, 2022
(in millions)
ASSETS
Investment in KPCo $ 918.4 
Investment in AEPTHCo 85.4 
Loss on the Expected Sale of Kentucky Operations
(net of $66.1 million of Income Taxes) (297.2)
Assets Held for Sale $ 706.6 
S-9
2.  COMMITMENTS, GUARANTEES AND CONTINGENCIES
Parent and its subsidiaries are parties to environmental and other legal matters. Parent has issued guarantees over the
performance of certain equity method investees.
Guarantees of Equity Method Investees
In 2019, AEP acquired a 50% ownership interest in five non-consolidated renewable joint ventures and two renewable
tax equity partnerships. Parent issued guarantees over the performance of the joint ventures. If a joint venture were to
default on payments or performance, Parent would be required to make payments on behalf of the joint venture. In
September 2022, AEP signed a PSA with a nonaffiliate for AEP’s interest in Flat Ridge 2, one of the five non-
consolidated joint ventures. The transaction closed in the fourth quarter of 2022. As of December 31, 2022, the
maximum potential amount of future payments associated with the remaining guarantees was $59 million, with the last
guarantee expiring in December 2035. The non-contingent liability recorded associated with these guarantees was
$5 million, with an additional $1 million expected credit loss liability for the contingent portion of the guarantees. In
accordance with the accounting guidance for guarantees, the initial recognition of the non-contingent liabilities
increased AEP’s carrying values of the respective equity method investees. Management considered historical losses,
economic conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts in the calculation of the expected credit loss. As the
joint ventures generate cash flows through PPAs, the measurement of the contingent portion of the guarantee liability is
based upon assessments of the credit quality and default probabilities of the respective PPA counterparties.
For further discussion, see Note 6 - Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies included in the 2022 Annual Report.
S-10
3.  FINANCING ACTIVITIES
The following details long-term debt outstanding as of December 31, 2022 and 2021:
Long-term Debt
 Weighted-Average Interest Rate Ranges as of Outstanding as of
Interest Rate as of December 31, December 31,
Type of Debt Maturity December 31, 2022 2022 2021 2022 2021
    (in millions)
Senior Unsecured Notes 2022-2050 3.57% 0.75%-5.95% 0.61%-4.30% $4,454.0 $3,859.7 
Pollution Control Bonds 2024-2029 (a) 2.26% 1.90%-2.60% 1.90%-2.60% 537.2 536.6 
Junior Subordinated Notes 2024-2027 2.35% 1.30%-3.88% 1.30%-3.88% 2,381.3 2,373.0 
Total Long-term Debt
Outstanding    7,372.5 6,769.3 
Long-term Debt Due
Within One Year 1,050.0 308.9 
Long-term Debt $6,322.5 $6,460.4 
(a)Certain Pollution Control Bonds are subject to redemption earlier than the maturity date.
Long-term debt outstanding as of December 31, 2022 is payable as follows:
2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 After 2027 Total
 (in millions)
Principal Amount (a) $1,050.0 $ 805.0 $1,249.7 $ 50.0 $1,749.7 $2,524.9 $7,429.3 
Unamortized Discount, Net and Debt
Issuance Costs       (56.8)
Total Long-term Debt Outstanding      $7,372.5 
(a)Amounts reflect the impact of fair value hedge accounting. See “Accounting for Fair Value Hedging Strategies” section of
Note 10 included in the 2022 Annual Report for additional information.
Short-term Debt
Parent’s outstanding short-term debt was as follows:
 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
Type of DebtOutstanding
AmountWeighted-Average
Interest RateOutstanding
AmountWeighted-Average
Interest Rate
 (in millions)  (in millions)  
Commercial Paper $ 2,862.2 4.80 %$ 1,364.0 0.34 %
Term Loan — — % 500.0 0.81 %
Term Loan 125.0 5.17 % — — %
Term Loan 150.0 5.17 % — — %
Term Loan 100.0 5.23 % — — %
Term Loan 125.0 4.87 % — — %
Total Short-term Debt $ 3,362.2 $ 1,864.0  
S-11
4.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Payments on Behalf of Subsidiaries
Due to occasional time sensitivity and complexity of payments, Parent makes certain insurance, tax and benefit
payments on behalf of subsidiary companies.  Parent is then fully reimbursed by the subsidiary companies.
Short-term Lending to Subsidiaries
Parent uses a commercial paper program to meet the short-term borrowing needs of subsidiaries.  The program is used
to fund both a Utility Money Pool, which funds the utility subsidiaries, and a Nonutility Money Pool, which funds
certain nonutility subsidiaries.  In addition, the program also funds, as direct borrowers, the short-term debt
requirements of other subsidiaries that are not participants in either money pool for regulatory or operational
reasons.  The program also allows some direct borrowers to invest excess cash with Parent.
Interest expense related to Parent’s short-term borrowing is included in Interest Expense on Parent’s statements of
income.  Parent incurred interest expense for amounts borrowed from subsidiaries of $30 million, $2 million and $4
million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
Interest income related to Parent’s short-term lending is included in Interest Income on Parent’s statements of
income.  Parent earned interest income for amounts advanced to subsidiaries of $71 million, $15 million and $36
million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
Affiliated Notes
Parent issued long-term debt, portions of which were loaned to its subsidiaries.  Parent pays interest on the affiliated
notes, but the subsidiaries accrue interest for their share of the affiliated borrowing and remit the interest to
Parent.  Interest income related to Parent’s loans to subsidiaries is included in Interest Income on Parent’s statements of
income.  Parent earned interest income on loans to subsidiaries of $3 million, $2 million and $2 million for the years
ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
S-12
5.  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
Planned Disposition of the Competitive Contracted Renewables Portfolio
In February 2022, AEP management announced the initiation of a process to sell all or a portion of AEP Renewables’
competitive contracted renewables portfolio within the Generation & Marketing segment.
As of December 31, 2022, the competitive contracted renewable portfolio assets totaled 1.4 gigawatts of generation
resources representing consolidated solar and wind assets, with a net book value of $1.2 billion, and a 50% interest in
four joint venture wind farms, totaling $247 million, accounted for as equity method investments.
In late January 2023, AEP received final bids from interested parties. In February 2023, AEP’s Board of Directors
approved management’s plan to sell the competitive contracted renewables portfolio and AEP signed an agreement to
sell the competitive contracted renewables portfolio to a nonaffiliated party for $1.5 billion including the assumption of
project debt. As part of the sale agreement, AEP provided the acquirer an indemnification related to certain losses, not
to exceed $70 million, which could result from one of the joint venture wind farm’s inability to meet certain minimum
performance requirements.
The sale is subject to FERC approval, clearance from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States and
approval under applicable competition laws. AEP expects to close on the sale in the second quarter of 2023 and receive
cash proceeds, net of taxes, transaction fees and other customary closing adjustments, of approximately $1.2 billion.
Management concluded the consolidated assets within the competitive contracted renewables portfolio met the
accounting requirements to be presented as Held for Sale in the first quarter of 2023 based on the receipt of final bids,
Board of Director approval to consummate a sale transaction and the signing of the sale agreement. AEP anticipates
recording an estimated pretax loss ranging from $175 million to $225 million ($100 million to $150 million after-tax),
in the first quarter of 2023 as a result of reaching Held for Sale status. Management concluded the impact of any other
than temporary decline in the fair value of the four joint venture wind farms was not material to AEP’s December 31,
2022 financial statements. Any changes to the book value or carrying value of these assets, or the anticipated sale price,
could further reduce future net income and impact financial condition.
S-13
SCHEDULE II – VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
AEP  Additions   
DescriptionBalance at
 Beginning
of PeriodCharged to
Costs and
ExpensesCharged to
Other
Accounts (a)Deductions
(b)Balance at
End of
Period
 (in millions)
Deducted from Assets:      
Accumulated Provision for
Uncollectible Accounts:      
Year Ended December 31, 2022 (c)$ 55.6 $ 38.4 $ — $ 37.9 $ 56.1 
Year Ended December 31, 2021 71.1 20.3 0.6 36.4 55.6 
Year Ended December 31, 2020 43.7 46.0 5.9 24.5 71.1 
(a) Recoveries offset by reclasses to other assets and liabilities.
(b) Uncollectible accounts written off.
(c) The 2022 balance excludes Accumulated Provision for Uncollectible Accounts of $1 million classified as
Assets Held for Sale on the balance sheets. See “Disposition of KPCo and KTCo” section of Note 7 included in
the 2022 Annual Report for additional information.
Schedule II for the Registrant Subsidiaries is not presented because the amounts are not material.
S-14
INDEX OF AEP TRANSMISSION COMPANY, LLC (AEPTCO PARENT)
FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
Page
Number
The following financial statement schedules are included in this report on the pages indicated:
 
AEP Transmission Company, LLC (AEPTCo Parent):
Schedule I – Condensed Financial Information S-16
Schedule I – Index of Condensed Notes to Condensed Financial Information S-20
S-15
SCHEDULE I
AEP TRANSMISSION COMPANY, LLC (AEPTCo Parent)
CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
 Years Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
EXPENSES    
Other Operation $ 0.7 $ 0.2 $ 0.2 
TOTAL EXPENSES 0.7 0.2 0.2 
OPERATING LOSS (0.7) (0.2) (0.2)
Other Income (Expense):    
Interest Income - Affiliated 177.8 158.1 149.6 
Interest Expense (177.1) (157.7) (148.1)
INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAX EXPENSE AND EQUITY
EARNINGS OF UNCONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES — 0.2 1.3 
Income Tax Expense — — 0.2 
Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries 594.2 591.5 422.3 
NET INCOME $ 594.2 $ 591.7 $ 423.4 
See Condensed Notes to Condensed Financial Information beginning on page S-20.
S-16
SCHEDULE I
AEP TRANSMISSION COMPANY, LLC (AEPTCo Parent)
CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS
ASSETS
December 31, 2022 and 2021
(in millions)
 December 31,
 2022 2021
CURRENT ASSETS   
Advances to Affiliates $ — $ 12.7 
Accounts Receivable:   
Affiliated Companies 34.6 32.4 
Total Accounts Receivable 34.6 32.4 
Notes Receivable - Affiliated 60.0 104.0 
Assets Held for Sale 149.3 140.2 
Other Current Assets — 0.5 
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 243.9 289.8 
OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS   
Notes Receivable - Affiliated 4,659.0 4,176.1 
Investments in Unconsolidated Subsidiaries 5,935.7 5,411.1 
TOTAL OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS 10,594.7 9,587.2 
TOTAL ASSETS $ 10,838.6 $ 9,877.0 
See Condensed Notes to Condensed Financial Information beginning on page S-20.
S-17
SCHEDULE I
AEP TRANSMISSION COMPANY, LLC (AEPTCo Parent)
CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
December 31, 2022 and 2021
(in millions)
December 31,
 2022 2021
CURRENT LIABILITIES  
Advances from Affiliates $ 27.8 $ — 
Accounts Payable:   
General 78.1 83.0 
Affiliated Companies 42.2 44.3 
Long-term Debt Due Within One Year – Nonaffiliated 60.0 104.0 
Accrued Interest 28.8 28.8 
Other Current Liabilities 5.9 0.9 
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 242.8 261.0 
NONCURRENT LIABILITIES   
Long-term Debt – Nonaffiliated 4,722.8 4,239.9 
TOTAL NONCURRENT LIABILITIES 4,722.8 4,239.9 
TOTAL LIABILITIES 4,965.6 4,500.9 
MEMBER’S EQUITY   
Paid-in Capital 3,022.3 2,949.6 
Retained Earnings 2,850.7 2,426.5 
TOTAL MEMBER’S EQUITY 5,873.0 5,376.1 
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND MEMBER’S EQUITY $10,838.6 $ 9,877.0 
See Condensed Notes to Condensed Financial Information beginning on page S-20.
S-18
SCHEDULE I
AEP TRANSMISSION COMPANY, LLC (AEPTCo Parent)
CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For the Years Ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020
(in millions)
 Years Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
OPERATING ACTIVITIES    
Net Income $ 594.2 $ 591.7 $ 423.4 
Adjustments to Reconcile Net Income to Net Cash Flows from
Operating Activities:    
Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries (594.2) (591.5) (422.3)
Change in Other Noncurrent Liabilities 9.1 6.2 5.6 
Changes in Certain Components of Working Capital:    
Accounts Receivable, Net (2.2) (5.9) (3.4)
Accounts Payable (0.6) 4.8 5.3 
Accrued Interest — 4.9 4.7 
Other Current Liabilities (0.8) 12.3 32.5 
Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities 5.5 22.5 45.8 
INVESTING ACTIVITIES    
Change in Advances to Affiliates, Net 12.7 96.3 (40.3)
Repayment of Notes Receivable from Affiliated Companies 104.0 50.0 — 
Issuance of Notes Receivable to Affiliated Companies (550.0) (450.0) (525.0)
Return of Capital Contributions from Unconsolidated Subsidiaries 130.0 — 5.0 
Capital Contributions to Subsidiaries (69.5) (184.0) (335.0)
Net Cash Flows Used for Investing Activities (372.8) (487.7) (895.3)
FINANCING ACTIVITIES    
Capital Contributions from Member 72.7 184.0 335.0 
Issuance of Long-term Debt – Nonaffiliated 540.8 443.7 519.5 
Retirement of Long-term Debt – Nonaffiliated (104.0) (50.0) — 
Change in Advances from Affiliates, Net 27.8 — — 
Dividends Paid to Member (170.0) (112.5) (5.0)
Net Cash Flows from Financing Activities 367.3 465.2 849.5 
Net Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents — — — 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Period — — — 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Period $ — $ — $ — 
See Condensed Notes to Condensed Financial Information beginning on page S-20.
S-19
SCHEDULE I
AEP TRANSMISSION COMPANY, LLC (AEPTCo Parent)
INDEX OF CONDENSED NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
1.   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
 
2.   Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies
 
3.   Financing Activities
 
4.   Related Party Transactions
S-20
1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of Presentation
The condensed financial information of AEPTCo Parent is required as a result of the restricted net assets of AEPTCo
consolidated subsidiaries exceeding 25% of AEPTCo consolidated net assets as of December 31, 2022.  AEPTCo
Parent is the direct holding company for the seven State Transcos.  The primary source of income for AEPTCo Parent is
equity in its subsidiaries’ earnings. AEPTCo Parent financial statements should be read in conjunction with the
AEPTCo consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes thereto. For purposes of these condensed
financial statements, AEPTCo wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries are recorded based upon its
proportionate share of the subsidiaries’ net assets (similar to presenting them on the equity method).
Income Taxes
AEPTCo Parent joins in the filing of a consolidated federal income tax return with its affiliates in the AEP System. 
Historically, the allocation of the AEP System’s current consolidated federal income tax to the AEP System companies
allocated the benefit of current tax loss of the parent company (Parent Company Loss Benefit) to the AEP System
subsidiaries through a reduction of current tax expense. In the first quarter of 2022, AEP and subsidiaries changed
accounting for the Parent Company Loss Benefit from a reduction of current tax expense to an allocation through
equity. The impact of this change was immaterial to the Subsidiaries’ financial statements. The consolidated NOL of the
AEP System is allocated to each company in the consolidated group with taxable income. With the exception of the
allocation of the consolidated AEP System NOL, the loss of the Parent and tax credits, the method of allocation reflects
a separate return result for each company in the consolidated group.
Disposition of KTCo
AEPTCo Parent holds a direct investment in KTCo. In October 2021, AEP entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement
(SPA) to sell KPCo and KTCo to Liberty Utilities Co., a subsidiary of Algonquin Power & Utilities Corp. (Liberty), for
approximately a $2.85 billion enterprise value. In May 2022, the KPSC approved the transfer of KPCo to Liberty
subject to certain conditions contingent upon the closing of the sale. AEP has received clearance under the Hart-Scott-
Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (HSR) and the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States
during 2022. Clearance under the HSR expired in January 2023. AEP and Liberty refiled a joint application seeking
HSR clearance in February 2023. The sale is also contingent upon FERC approval under Section 203 of the Federal
Power Act. The parties to the SPA have certain termination rights if the closing of the sale does not occur by April 26,
2023.
Transfer of Ownership
FERC Proceedings
In December 2021, Liberty, KPCo and KTCo (the applicants) requested FERC approval of the sale under Section 203
of the Federal Power Act. In February 2022, several intervenors in the case filed protests related to whether the sale will
negatively impact the wholesale transmission rates of applicants. In April 2022, the FERC issued a deficiency letter
stating that the Section 203 application is deficient and that additional information is required to process it. In May
2022, Liberty, KPCo and KTCo supplemented the application. In December 2022, the FERC issued an order denying,
without prejudice, authorization of the proposed sale stating the applicants failed to demonstrate the proposed
transaction will not have an adverse effect on rates.
In January 2023, AEP, AEPTCo, and Liberty entered into an amendment to the SPA that specified the applicants will
submit a new filing for approval under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act. The new filing was submitted to the
FERC on February 14, 2023. The applicants requested expedited treatment of the new filing, including an accelerated
comment period. In response, the FERC granted a shortened 45 day comment period. The applicants believe the new
Section 203 application addresses the concerns raised in the FERC’s December 2022 order. The
S-21
application contains several additional commitments by Liberty to mitigate potential adverse impacts on FERC
jurisdictional rates over the next five years, including: a) maintaining the current return on equity; b) maintaining the
current cost cap on equity; c) financing future investments at the current credit rating; and d) capping certain operating
and administrative costs. The sale remains subject to FERC approval. The statute requires an order from the FERC
within 180 days of the February 14, 2023 filing date in accordance with Section 203 of the Federal Power Act.
In September 2022, AEP, AEPTCo and Liberty entered into an amendment to the SPA which reduced the purchase price
to approximately $2.646 billion and Liberty agreed to waive, upon FERC approval of the sale, the SPA condition
precedent to closing requiring the issuance of regulatory orders approving new proposed Mitchell Plant agreements.
Management believes it is probable that FERC authorization under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act will be
received and closing will occur after receipt of the order. Therefore, the assets and liabilities of KTCo were classified as
Held for Sale in the December 31, 2022 balance sheet of AEPTCo Parent. Upon closing, Liberty will acquire the assets
and assume the liabilities of KPCo and KTCo, excluding pension and other post-retirement benefit plan assets and
liabilities. AEP expects to provide customary transition services to Liberty for a period of time after closing of the
transaction. AEP expects cash proceeds, net of taxes and transaction fees, from the sale of approximately $1.2 billion.
AEP plans to use the proceeds from the sale to fund its continued investment in regulated businesses, including
transmission and regulated renewables projects. If additional reductions in the fair value of the Kentucky Operations
occur, it would reduce future net income and cash flows.
The major classes of KTCo’s assets and liabilities presented in Assets Held for Sale and Liabilities Held for Sale on the
balance sheets of AEPTCo Parent as of December 31, 2022 are shown in the table below.
December 31, 2022
(in millions)
ASSETS
Long-term Notes Receivable - Affiliated $ 63.8 
Investment in KTCo 85.5 
Assets Held for Sale $ 149.3 
2.  COMMITMENTS, GUARANTEES AND CONTINGENCIES
AEPTCo Parent and its subsidiaries are parties to legal matters.  For further discussion, see Note 6 - Commitments,
Guarantees and Contingencies included in the 2022 Annual Report.
3.  FINANCING ACTIVITIES
For discussion of Financing Activities, see Note 14 - Financing Activities to AEPTCo’s audited consolidated financial
statements included in the 2022 Annual Report.
4.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Payments on Behalf of Subsidiaries
Due to occasional time sensitivity and complexity of payments, Parent makes certain insurance, tax and other payments
on behalf of subsidiary companies.  Parent is then fully reimbursed by the subsidiary companies. AEPTCo Parent also
makes convenience payments on behalf of its State Transcos. AEPTCo Parent is then fully reimbursed by its State
Transcos.
S-22
Long-term Lending to Subsidiaries
AEPTCo Parent enters into debt arrangements with nonaffiliated entities. AEPTCo Parent has long-term debt of $4.8
billion and $4.3 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. AEPTCo Parent uses the proceeds from these
nonaffiliated debt arrangements to make affiliated loans to its State Transcos using the same interest rates and maturity
dates as the nonaffiliated debt arrangements. AEPTCo Parent has recorded Notes Receivable – Affiliated of $4.7 billion
and $4.3 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Related to these nonaffiliated and affiliated debt
arrangements, AEPTCo Parent has recorded Accrued Interest of $29 million and $29 million as of December 31, 2022
and 2021, respectively. AEPTCo Parent has also recorded Accounts Receivable – Affiliated Companies of $35 million
and $32 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. AEPTCo Parent has recorded Interest Income –
Affiliated of $177 million, $158 million and $150 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020,
respectively, related to the Notes Receivable – Affiliated. AEPTCo Parent has recorded Interest Expense of $177
million, $158 million and $148 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, related to
the nonaffiliated debt arrangements.
Short-term Lending to Subsidiaries
Parent uses a commercial paper program to meet the short-term borrowing needs of subsidiaries.  The program is used
to fund both a Utility Money Pool, which funds the utility subsidiaries, and a Nonutility Money Pool, which funds
certain nonutility subsidiaries.  In addition, the program also funds, as direct borrowers, the short-term debt
requirements of other subsidiaries that are not participants in either money pool for regulatory or operational
reasons.  The program also allows some direct borrowers to invest excess cash with Parent.
Interest expense related to AEPTCo Parent’s short-term borrowing is included in Interest Expense on AEPTCo Parent’s
statements of income.  AEPTCo Parent incurred immaterial interest expense for amounts borrowed from AEP affiliates
for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020.
Interest income related to AEPTCo Parent’s short-term lending is included in Interest Income – Affiliated on AEPTCo
Parent’s statements of income.  AEPTCo Parent earned interest income for amounts advanced to AEP affiliates of $915
thousand, $400 thousand and $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
S-23
EXHIBIT INDEX
The documents listed below are being filed or have previously been filed on behalf of the Registrants shown and are
incorporated herein by reference to the documents indicated and made a part hereof.  Exhibits (“Ex”) not identified as
previously filed are filed herewith.  Exhibits designated with a dagger (†) are management contracts or compensatory
plans or arrangements required to be filed as an Exhibit to this Form.  Exhibits designated with an asterisk (*) are filed
herewith.
Exhibit
Designation 
Nature of Exhibit 
Previously Filed as Exhibit to:
   
AEP‡   File No. 1-3525   
     
*3(a) Composite of the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation of AEP, dated April 26, 2022.
3(b) Composite By-Laws of AEP amended as of
December 6, 2022.Form 8-K, Exhibit 3(b) dated December 8, 2022
4(a) Indenture (for unsecured debt securities), dated
as of May 1, 2001, between AEP and The Bank
of New York, as Trustee.Registration Statement No. 333-86050, Ex 4(a)(b)
(c)
Registration Statement No. 333-105532, Ex 4(d)(e)
(f)
Registration Statement No. 333-200956, Ex 4(b)
Registration Statement No. 333-222068, Ex 4(b)
Registration Statement No. 333-249918, Ex 4(b)(c)
4(a)1 Company Order and Officers Certificate to The
Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company,
N.A. dated November 20, 2020 establishing
terms of 0.75% Senior Notes Series M due
2023, 1.00% Senior Notes, Series N due 2025
and Floating Rate Notes, Series A due 2023.Form 8-K, Ex 4(a) dated November 18, 2020
4(a)2 Company Order and Officer’s Certificate
between America Electric Power Company, Inc.
and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A. as Trustee dated August 3, 2021
establishing terms of the 1.80% Senior Notes,
Series 2021A due 2028.Form 10-Q, Ex. 4, September 30, 2021
4(a)3 Company Order and Officer’s Certificate
between America Electric Power Company, Inc.
and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A. as Trustee dated November 2,
3, 2022 establishing terms of the 5.75% Senior
Notes, Series O due 2027 and the 5.95% Senior
Notes, Series P due 2032.Form 8-K, Ex 4(a) dated November 2, 2022
4(b) Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated March 1,
2008, between the Company and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as
Trustee for the Junior Subordinated Debentures.Registration Statement No. 333-156387, Ex 4(c)
(d)
Registration Statement No. 333-249918, Ex 4(f)(g)
E-1
Exhibit
Designation 
Nature of Exhibit 
Previously Filed as Exhibit to:
   
4(b)1 Supplemental Indenture No. 2 dated August 14,
2020 between American Electric Power
Company, Inc. and The Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Company, N.A. as Trustee
establishing terms of 1.30% Fixed-to-Fixed
Reset Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due
2025.Form 10-Q Ex 4.3, dated September 30, 2020
4(b)2 Supplemental Indenture No. 3 dated November
15, 2021 between American Electric Power
Company, Inc. and The Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Company, N.A. as Trustee
establishing terms of 3.875% Fixed-to-Fixed
Reset Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due
2062.Form 8-K, Ex 4(a) dated November 16, 2021
4(b)3 Supplemental Indenture No. 4 dated January 6,
2022 between American Electric Power
Company, Inc. and The Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Company, N.A. as Trustee
establishing terms of 2.031% Junior
Subordinated Debentures due 2024.Form 8-K, Ex 4(a) dated January 6, 2022
4(c) Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement, dated
as of March 19, 2019, between the Company
and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A., as purchase contract agent,
collateral agent, custodial agent and securities
intermediary.Registration Statement No. 333-249918, Ex 4(h)
4(c)1 Purchase Contract and Pledge Agreement dated
as of August 14, 2020, between the Company
and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A., as purchase contract agent,
collateral agent, custodial agent and securities
intermediary.Registration Statement No. 333-249918, Ex 4(i)
4(d) First Amendment to Fourth Amended and
Restated Credit Agreement dated June 30, 2016
among AEP, the banks, financial institutions
and other institutional lenders listed on the
signature pages thereof and Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A., as Administrative Agent.Form 10-Q, Ex 4, September 30, 2018
     
4(d)1 Credit Agreement among AEP, initial lenders
and PNC Bank, National Association as
Administrative Agent.Form 10-Q, Ex 4.3, March 31, 2020
4(d)2 $500,000,000 Credit Agreement dated March
10, 2021 among the Company, Initial Lenders
and U.S. Bank National Association as
Administrative Agent.Form 10-Q Ex 4.1 dated March 31, 2021
4(d)3 $4,000,000,000 Credit Agreement dated March
31, 2021 among the Company, Initial Lenders
and Wells Fargo Bank National Association as
Administrative Agent.Form 10-Q Ex 4.2 dated March 31, 2021
E-2
Exhibit
Designation 
Nature of Exhibit 
Previously Filed as Exhibit to:
   
4(d)3A April 7, 2022 Amendment and extension to
$4,000,000,000 Credit Agreement dated March
31, 2021 among the Company, Initial Lenders
and Wells Fargo Bank National Association as
Administrative Agent.Form 10-Q Ex 4(a) dated March 31, 2022
4(d)4 $1,000,000,000 Credit Agreement dated March
31, 2021 among the Company, Initial Lenders
and Wells Fargo Bank National Association as
Administrative Agent.Form 10-Q Ex 4.3 dated March 31, 2021
4(d)4A April 7, 2022 Amendment and extension to
$1,000,000,000 Credit Agreement dated March
31, 2021 among the Company, Initial Lenders
and Wells Fargo Bank National Association as
Administrative Agent.Form 10-Q Ex 4(b) dated March 31, 2022
4(e) Distribution Agreement, dated November 6,
2020, between American Electric Power
Company, Inc. and Credit Suisse Securities
(USA) LLC, Barclays Capital Inc., BofA
Securities, Inc., BNY Mellon Capital Markets,
LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Scotia
Capital (USA) Inc., Credit Suisse Capital LLC,
Barclays Bank PLC, Bank of America, N.A.
and Citibank, N.A.Form 8-K, Ex 1.1, November 6, 2020
4(f) Description of Securities. 2020 Form 10-K, Ex 4(c)
10(a) Consent Decree with U.S. District Court dated
October 9, 2007, as modified July 17, 2019.Form 8-K, Ex. 10 dated October 9, 2007
Form 10-Q, Ex 10, June 30, 2013
Form 10-Q, Ex 10, June 30, 2019
†10(b) AEP Retainer Deferral Plan for Non-Employee
Directors, as Amended and Restated effective
October 1, 2020.Form 10-Q, Ex 10.2, September 30, 2020
†10(c) AEP Stock Unit Accumulation Plan for Non-
Employee Directors as amended October 1,
2020.Form 10-Q, Ex 10.3, September 30, 2020
†10(c)1 AEP Stock Unit Accumulation Plan for Non-
Employee Directors as amended June 1, 2022.2021 Form 10-K, Ex 10(d)1
†10(d) AEP System Excess Benefit Plan, Amended and
Restated as of January 1, 2020.2019 Form 10-K, Ex 10(e)
†10(d)1 Guaranty by AEP of AEPSC Excess Benefits
Plan.1990 Form 10-K, Ex 10(h)(1)(B)
*†10(e) AEP System Supplemental Retirement Savings
Plan, Amended and Restated as of October 6,
2021 (Non-Qualified).
†10(f) AEPSC Umbrella Trust for Executives. 1993 Form 10-K, Ex 10(g)(3)
†10(f)1A First Amendment to AEPSC Umbrella Trust for
Executives.2008 Form 10-K, Ex 10(l)(3)(A)
E-3
Exhibit
Designation 
Nature of Exhibit 
Previously Filed as Exhibit to:
   
†10(f)2A Second Amendment to AEPSC Umbrella Trust
for Executives.2018 Form 10-K, Ex 10(g)(2)(A)
†10(g) AEP System Incentive Compensation Deferral
Plan Amended and Restated as of June 1, 2019.Form 10-Q, Ex 10(1), September 30, 2019
†10(h) AEP Change In Control Agreement, as Revised
Effective January 1, 2017.Form 10-Q, Ex 10(c), September 30, 2016
†10(i) Amended and Restated AEP System Long-Term
Incentive Plan as of September 21, 2016.Form 10-Q, Ex 10(a), September 30, 2016
†10(i)1A Performance Share Award Agreement furnished
to participants of the AEP System Long-Term
Incentive Plan, as amended.Form 10-Q, Ex 10(a), March 30, 2018
*†10(i)2A Restricted Stock Unit Agreement furnished to
participants of the AEP System Long-Term
Incentive Plan as Amended and Restated
effective January 1, 2022.
†10(j) AEP System Stock Ownership Requirement
Plan Amended and Restated effective October
1, 2020.Form 10-Q, Ex 10.1, September 30, 2020
†10(k) Central and South West System Special
Executive Retirement Plan Amended and
Restated effective January 1, 2020.2019 Form 10-K, Ex 10(l)
†10(l) AEP Executive Severance Plan Amended
effective January 4, 2021.2020 Form 10-K, Ex 10(n)
*†10(l)(1) AEP Executive Severance Plan Amended and
Restated effective February 20, 2023.
*†10(m) Severance, Release of All Claims, and Non-
competition Agreement between American
Electric Power Company, Inc. and Lisa M.
Barton.
†10(n) AEP Aircraft Timesharing Agreement dated
October 1, 2019 between American Electric
Power Service Corporation and Nicholas K.
Akins.Form 10-Q, Ex 10(2), September 30, 2019
10(o) Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of October
26, 2021 among AEP, AEPTCo and Liberty
Utilities Co.Form 10-Q, Ex 10, dated September 30, 2021
10(o)1A First Amendment to Stock Purchase Agreement
dated September 29, 2022 among AEP,
AEPTCo and Liberty Utilities Co.Form 10-Q, Ex 10, dated September 30, 2022
E-4
Exhibit
Designation 
Nature of Exhibit 
Previously Filed as Exhibit to:
   
*10(o)2A Second Amendment to Stock Purchase
Agreement dated January 16, 2023 among AEP,
AEPTCo and Liberty Utilities Co.
*21 List of subsidiaries of AEP.
*23 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
*24 Power of Attorney.
*31(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer
Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.
*31(b) Certification of Chief Financial Officer
Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.
*32(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer
Pursuant to Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title
18 of the United States Code.
  
*32(b) Certification of Chief Financial Officer
Pursuant to Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title
18 of the United States Code.
101.INS XBRL Instance Document. The instance
document does not appear in the interactive data
file because its XBRL tags are embedded within
the inline XBRL document.
101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema.
101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation
Linkbase.
101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition
Linkbase.
101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.
101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation
Linkbase.
104 Cover Page Interactive Data File. Formatted as
inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101.
AEP TEXAS‡   File No. 333-221643
3(a) Composite of the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, as amended.Registration Statement No. 333-221643, Ex 3(a)
3(b) Bylaws. Registration Statement No. 333-221643, Ex 3(b)
E-5
Exhibit
Designation 
Nature of Exhibit 
Previously Filed as Exhibit to:
   
4(a) Indenture, dated as of September 1, 2017,
between AEP Texas Inc. and The Bank of New
York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee.Registration Statement No. 333-221643, Ex
4(a)-1,4(a)-2
Registration Statement No. 333-228657, Ex
4(a)-4,4(a)-5
Registration Statement No. 333-230613, Ex 4(a)(b)
Registration Statement No. 333-253585, Ex 4(b)(c)
(d)
4(b) Company Order and Officer’s Certificate
between AEP Texas Inc. and The Bank of New
York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. as Trustee
dated May 6, 2021 establishing terms of the
3.45% Senior Notes, Series J, due 2051.Form 8-K, Ex 4(a) dated May 6, 2021
4(e) Company Order and Officer’s Certificate
between AEP Texas Inc. and The Bank of New
York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. as Trustee
dated May 18, 2022 establishing terms of the
4.70% Senior Notes, Series K, due 2032 and the
5.25% Senior Notes, Series L, due 2052.Form 10-Q, Ex 4 dated June 30, 2022
*23 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
*24 Power of Attorney.
*31(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer
Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.
*31(b) Certification of Chief Financial Officer
Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.
*32(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer
Pursuant to Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title
18 of the United States Code.
*32(b) Certification of Chief Financial Officer
Pursuant to Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title
18 of the United States Code.
101.INS XBRL Instance Document. The instance
document does not appear in the interactive data
file because its XBRL tags are embedded within
the inline XBRL document.
101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema.
101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation
Linkbase.
101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition
Linkbase.
101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.
E-6
Exhibit
Designation 
Nature of Exhibit 
Previously Filed as Exhibit to:
   
101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation
Linkbase.
104 Cover Page Interactive Data File. Formatted as
inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101.
AEPTCo‡   File No. 333-217143
3(a) Limited Liability Company Agreement of AEP
Transmission Company, LLC dated as of
January 27, 2006.Registration Statement No. 333-217143, Ex 3(a)
3(b) First Amendment to Limited Liability Company
Agreement dated as of May 21, 2013.Registration Statement No. 333-217143, Ex 3(b)
4(a) Indenture, dated as of November 1, 2016,
between AEP Transmission Company, LLC and
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company,
N.A., as Trustee.Registration Statement No. 333-217143, Ex 4(a)-1,
4(a)-2
Registration Statement No. 333-225325, Ex 4(b)(c)
(d)
Registration Statement No. 333-255605, Ex 4(b)(c)
(d)(e)
4(b) Company Order and Officer’s Certificate
between AEP Transmission Company, LLC and
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company,
N.A. as Trustee dated August 4, 2021
establishing terms of the 2.75% Senior Notes,
Series N, due 2051.Form 8-K, Ex 4(a) dated August 4, 2021
4(c) Company Order and Officer’s Certificate
between AEP Transmission Company, LLC and
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company,
N.A. as Trustee dated June 9, 2022 establishing
terms of the 4.50% Senior Notes, Series O, due
2052.Form 10-Q, Ex 4 dated June 30, 2022
4(d) Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of October
18, 2012 between AEP Transmission Company,
LLC and the Initial Purchasers.Registration Statement No. 333-217143, Ex 4(c)-1
4(e)1 Supplement to Note Purchase Agreement, dated
as of November 7, 2013 between AEP
Transmission Company, LLC and the Initial
Purchasers.Registration Statement No. 333-217143, Ex 4(c)-2
4(e)2 Supplement to Note Purchase Agreement, dated
as of November 14, 2014 between AEP
Transmission Company, LLC and the Initial
Purchasers.Registration Statement No. 333-217143, Ex 4(c)-3
10 Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of October
26, 2021 among AEP, AEPTCo and Liberty
Utilities Co.Form 10-Q, Ex 10, dated September 30, 2021
E-7
Exhibit
Designation 
Nature of Exhibit 
Previously Filed as Exhibit to:
   
10(1)A First Amendment to Stock Purchase Agreement
dated September 29, 2022 among AEP,
AEPTCo and Liberty Utilities Co.Form 10-Q, Ex 10, dated September 30, 2022
*10(2)A Second Amendment to Stock Purchase
Agreement dated January 16, 2023 among AEP,
AEPTCo and Liberty Utilities Co.
*23 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
*24 Power of Attorney.
*31(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer
Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.
*31(b) Certification of Chief Financial Officer
Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.
*32(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer
Pursuant to Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title
18 of the United States Code.
*32(b) Certification of Chief Financial Officer
Pursuant to Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title
18 of the United States Code.
101.INS XBRL Instance Document. The instance
document does not appear in the interactive data
file because its XBRL tags are embedded within
the inline XBRL document.
101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema.
101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation
Linkbase.
101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition
Linkbase.
101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.
101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation
Linkbase.
104 Cover Page Interactive Data File. Formatted as
inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101.
APCo‡   File No. 1-3457
3(a) Composite of the Restated Articles of
Incorporation of APCo, amended as of March 7,
1997.1996 Form 10-K, Ex 3(d)
3(b) Composite By-Laws of APCo, amended as of
February 26, 2008.2007 Form 10-K, Ex 3(b)
E-8
Exhibit
Designation 
Nature of Exhibit 
Previously Filed as Exhibit to:
   
4(a) Indenture (for unsecured debt securities), dated
as of January 1, 1998, between APCo and The
Bank of New York, As Trustee.Registration Statement No. 333-45927, Ex 4(a)(b)
Registration Statement No. 333-49071, Ex 4(b)
Registration Statement No. 333-84061, Ex 4(b)(c)
Registration Statement No. 333-100451, Ex 4(b)
Registration Statement No. 333-116284, Ex 4(b)(c)
Registration Statement No. 333-123348, Ex 4(b)(c)
Registration Statement No. 333-136432, Ex 4(b)(c)
(d)
Registration Statement No. 333-161940, Ex 4(b)(c)
(d)
Registration Statement No. 333-182336, Ex 4(b)(c)
Registration Statement No. 333-200750, Ex 4(b)(c)
Registration Statement No. 333-214448, Ex 4(b)
Registration Statement No. 333-236613, Ex 4(b)(c)
Registration Statement No 333-268874, Ex 4(b)(c)
(d)(e)
10(a) Inter-Company Power Agreement, dated as of
July 10, 1953, among OVEC and the
Sponsoring Companies, as amended September
10, 2010.2013 Form 10-K, Ex 10(a)
10(b) Consent Decree with U.S. District Court dated
October 9, 2007, as modified July 17, 2019.Form 8-K, Ex. 10 dated October 9, 2007
Form 10-Q, Ex 10, June 30, 2013
Form 10-Q, Ex 10, June 30, 2019
*23 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
*24 Power of Attorney.
*31(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer
Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.
*31(b) Certification of Chief Financial Officer
Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.
*32(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer
Pursuant to Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title
18 of the United States Code.
*32(b) Certification of Chief Financial Officer
Pursuant to Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title
18 of the United States Code.
101.INS XBRL Instance Document. The instance
document does not appear in the interactive data
file because its XBRL tags are embedded within
the inline XBRL document.
101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema.
E-9
Exhibit
Designation 
Nature of Exhibit 
Previously Filed as Exhibit to:
   
101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation
Linkbase.
101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition
Linkbase.
101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.
101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation
Linkbase.
104 Cover Page Interactive Data File. Formatted as
inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101.
I&M‡   File No. 1-3570
3(a) Composite of the Amended Articles of
Acceptance of I&M, dated of March 7, 1997.1996 Form 10-K, Ex 3(c)
3(b) Composite By-Laws of I&M, amended as of
February 26, 2008.2007 Form 10-K, Ex 3(b)
4 Indenture (for unsecured debt securities), dated
as of October 1, 1998, between I&M and The
Bank of New York, as Trustee.Registration Statement No. 333-88523, Ex 4(a)(b)
(c)
Registration Statement No. 333-58656, Ex 4(b)(c)
Registration Statement No. 333-108975, Ex 4(b)(c)
(d)
Registration Statement No. 333-136538, Ex 4(b)(c)
Registration Statement No. 333-156182, Ex 4(b)
Registration Statement No. 333-185087, Ex 4(b)
Registration Statement No. 333-207836, Ex 4(b)
Registration Statement No. 333-225103, Ex 4(b)(c)
(d)
Registration Statement No. 333-268880 Ex. 4(b)(c)
10(a) Inter-Company Power Agreement, dated as of
July 10, 1953, among OVEC and the
Sponsoring Companies, as amended September
10, 2010.2013 Form 10-K, Ex 10(a)
10(b) Unit Power Agreement dated as of March 31,
1982 between AEGCo and I&M, as amended.Registration Statement No. 33-32752, Ex 28(b)(1)
(A)(B)
10(c) Consent Decree with U.S. District Court dated
October 9, 2007, as modified July 17, 2019.Form 8-K, Ex. 10 dated October 9, 2007
Form 10-Q, Ex 10, June 30, 2013
Form 10-Q, Ex 10, June 30, 2019
*23 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
*24 Power of Attorney.
*31(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer
Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.
E-10
Exhibit
Designation 
Nature of Exhibit 
Previously Filed as Exhibit to:
   
*31(b) Certification of Chief Financial Officer
Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.
*32(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer
Pursuant to Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title
18 of the United States Code.
*32(b) Certification of Chief Financial Officer
Pursuant to Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title
18 of the United States Code.
101.INS XBRL Instance Document. The instance
document does not appear in the interactive
data file because its XBRL tags are embedded
within the inline XBRL document.
101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema.
101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation
Linkbase.
101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition
Linkbase.
101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.
101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation
Linkbase.
104 Cover Page Interactive Data File. Formatted as
inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101.
OPCo‡   File No. 1-6543
3(a) Composite of the Amended Articles of
Incorporation of OPCo, dated June 3, 2002.Form 10-Q, Ex 3(e), June 30, 2002
3(b) Amended Code of Regulations of OPCo. Form 10-Q, Ex 3(b), June 30, 2008
4(a) Indenture (for unsecured debt securities), dated
as of September 1, 1997, between OPCo and
Bankers Trust Company (now The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. as
assignee of Deutsche Bank Trust Company
Americas), as Trustee.Registration Statement No. 333-49595, Ex 4(a)(b)
(c)
Registration Statement No. 333-106242, Ex 4(b)(c)
(d)
Registration Statement No. 333-127913, Ex 4(b)(c)
Registration Statement No. 333-139802, Ex 4(b)(c)
(d)
Registration Statement No. 333-161537, Ex 4(b)(c)
(d)
Registration Statement No. 333-211192, Ex 4(b)
Registration Statement No. 333-230094, Ex 4(b)
Registration Statement No. 333-255600, Ex 4(b)(c)
(d)
E-11
Exhibit
Designation 
Nature of Exhibit 
Previously Filed as Exhibit to:
   
4(a)1 Resignation of Deutsche Bank Trust Company
Americas, as Trustee and appointment of The
Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company,
N.A. as Trustee of Indenture with OPCo dated
as of September 1, 1997.Form 8-K, Item 8.01 dated October 8, 2018
4(a)2 Company Order and Officer’s Certificate
between Ohio Power Company and The Bank
of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. as
Trustee dated September 9, 2021 establishing
terms of the 2.90% Senior Notes, Series R, due
2051.Form 8-K, Ex 4(a) dated September 13, 2021
4(b) Indenture (for unsecured debt securities), dated
as of February 1, 2003, between OPCo and
Bank One, N.A., as Trustee.Registration Statement No. 333-127913, Ex 4(d)(e)
(f)
4(c) Indenture (for unsecured debt securities), dated
as of September 1, 1997, between CSPCo
(predecessor in interest to OPCo) and Bankers
Trust Company, as Trustee.Registration Statement No. 333-54025, Ex 4(a)(b)
(c)(d)
Registration Statement No. 333-128174, Ex 4(b)(c)
(d)
Registration Statement No. 333-150603, Ex 4(b)
4(d) Indenture (for unsecured debt securities), dated
as of February 1, 2003, between CSPCo
(predecessor in interest to OPCo) and Bank
One, N.A., as Trustee.Registration Statement No. 333-128174, Ex 4(e)(f)
(g)
Registration Statement No. 333-150603, Ex 4(b)
4(e) First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of
December 31, 2011, by and between OPCo and
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company,
N.A., as trustee, supplementing the Indenture
dated as of September 1, 1997 between CSPCo
(predecessor in interest to OPCo) and the
trustee.Form 8-K, Ex 4.1 dated January 6, 2012
4(f) Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of
December 31, 2011, by and between OPCo and
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company,
N.A., as trustee, supplementing the Indenture
dated as of February 14, 2003 between CSPCo
(predecessor in interest to OPCo) and the
trustee.Form 8-K, Ex 4.2 dated January 6, 2012
10(a) Inter-Company Power Agreement, dated July
10, 1953, among OVEC and the Sponsoring
Companies, as amended September 10, 2010.2013 Form 10-K, Ex 10(a)
10(b) Consent Decree with U.S. District Court dated
October 9, 2007, as modified July 17, 2019.Form 8-K, Ex. 10 dated October 9, 2007
Form 10-Q, Ex 10, June 30, 2013
Form 10-Q, Ex 10, June 30, 2019
*23 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
*24 Power of Attorney.
E-12
Exhibit
Designation 
Nature of Exhibit 
Previously Filed as Exhibit to:
   
*31(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer
Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.
*31(b) Certification of Chief Financial Officer
Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.
*32(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer
Pursuant to Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title
18 of the United States Code.
*32(b) Certification of Chief Financial Officer
Pursuant to Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title
18 of the United States Code.
101.INS XBRL Instance Document. The instance
document does not appear in the interactive
data file because its XBRL tags are embedded
within the inline XBRL document.
101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema.
101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation
Linkbase.
101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition
Linkbase.
101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.
101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation
Linkbase.
104 Cover Page Interactive Data File. Formatted as
inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101.
PSO‡   File No. 0-343
3(a) Certificate of Amendment to Restated
Certificate of Incorporation of PSO.Form 10-Q, Ex 3(a), June 30, 2008
3(b) Composite By-Laws of PSO amended as of
February 26, 2008.2007 Form 10-K, Ex 3 (b)
4(a) Indenture (for unsecured debt securities), dated
as of November 1, 2000, between PSO and The
Bank of New York, as Trustee.Registration Statement No. 333-100623, Ex 4(a)(b)
Registration Statement No. 333-114665, Ex 4(b)(c)
Registration Statement No. 333-133548, Ex 4(b)(c)
Registration Statement No. 333-156319, Ex 4(b)(c)
Registration Statement No. 333-251378, Ex 4(b)(c)
E-13
Exhibit
Designation 
Nature of Exhibit 
Previously Filed as Exhibit to:
   
4(b) Tenth Supplemental Indenture between Public
Service Company of Oklahoma and The Bank
of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. as
Trustee dated August 1, 2021 establishing terms
of the 2.20% Senior Notes, Series J, due 2031
and the 3.15% Senior Notes Series K, due 2051.Form 8-K, Ex 4(a) dated August 12, 2021
4(c) Eleventh Supplemental Indenture dated as of
January 1, 2023 between Public Service
Company of Oklahoma. and The Bank of New
York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.as Trustee
establishing terms of 5.25% Senior Notes Series
L due 2033.Form 8-K, Ex 4(a) dated January 5, 2023
4(d) Credit Agreement dated as of January 19, 2021
among PSO as Borrower, Initial Lenders and
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation as
Administrative Agent.2020 Form 10-K, Ex 4(d)
4(d)A April 19, 2022 Amendment and extension to
$500,000,000 Credit Agreement dated January
19, 2021 among the Company, Initial Lenders
and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation as
Administrative Agent.Form 10-Q Ex 4(c) dated March 31, 2022
*23 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
*24 Power of Attorney.
*31(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer
Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.
*31(b) Certification of Chief Financial Officer
Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.
*32(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer
Pursuant to Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title
18 of the United States Code.
*32(b) Certification of Chief Financial Officer
Pursuant to Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title
18 of the United States Code.
101.INS XBRL Instance Document. The instance
document does not appear in the interactive data
file because its XBRL tags are embedded within
the inline XBRL document.
101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema.
101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation
Linkbase.
101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition
Linkbase.
E-14
Exhibit
Designation 
Nature of Exhibit 
Previously Filed as Exhibit to:
   
101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.
101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation
Linkbase.
104 Cover Page Interactive Data File. Formatted as
inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101.
SWEPCo‡   File No. 1-3146
3(a) Composite of Amended Restated Certificate of
Incorporation of SWEPCo.2008 Form 10-K, Ex 3(a)
3(a)(A) Amendment to Amended Restated Certificate of
Incorporation.Form 8-K Ex 3.1 dated September 1, 2020
3(b) Composite By-Laws of SWEPCo amended as
of February 26, 2008.2007 Form 10-K, Ex 3(b)
4(a) Indenture (for unsecured debt securities), dated
as of February 4, 2000, between SWEPCo and
The Bank of New York, as Trustee.Registration Statement No. 333-96213
Registration Statement No. 333-87834, Ex 4(a)(b)
Registration Statement No. 333-100632, Ex 4(b)
Registration Statement No. 333-108045, Ex 4(b)
Registration Statement No. 333-145669, Ex 4(c)(d)
Registration Statement No. 333-161539, Ex 4(b)(c)
Registration Statement No. 333-194991, Ex 4(b)(c)
Registration Statement No. 333-208535, Ex 4(b)(c)
Registration Statement No. 333-226856, Ex 4(b)(c)
Registration Statement No. 333-238159, Ex 4(b)
Registration Statement No. 333-258961, Ex 4(a)(b)
4(b) Fifteenth Supplemental Indenture dated
November 1, 2021 between Southwestern
Electric Power Company and The Bank of New
York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. as Trustee
establishing terms of 3.25% Senior Notes Series
O due 2051.Form 8-K, Ex 4(a) dated November 3, 2021
*23 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
*24 Power of Attorney.
*31(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer
Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.
*31(b) Certification of Chief Financial Officer
Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.
E-15
Exhibit
Designation 
Nature of Exhibit 
Previously Filed as Exhibit to:
   
*32(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer
Pursuant to Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title
18 of the United States Code.
*32(b) Certification of Chief Financial Officer
Pursuant to Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title
18 of the United States Code.
*95 Mine Safety Disclosure.
101.INS XBRL Instance Document. The instance
document does not appear in the interactive
data file because its XBRL tags are embedded
within the inline XBRL document.
101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema.
101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation
Linkbase.
101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition
Linkbase.
101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.
101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation
Linkbase.
104 Cover Page Interactive Data File. Formatted as
inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101.
‡ Certain instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the registrants included in the financial
statements of registrants filed herewith have been omitted because the total amount of securities authorized thereunder
does not exceed 10% of the total assets of registrants.  The registrants hereby agree to furnish a copy of any such
omitted instrument to the SEC upon request.
The agreements and other documents filed as exhibits to this report are not intended to provide factual information or
other disclosure other than with respect to the terms of the agreements or other documents themselves, and you should
not rely on them for that purpose. In particular, any representations and warranties made by us in these agreements or
other documents were made solely within the specific context of the relevant agreement or document and may not
describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time.
E-16
