 
 
 
UNITED ST ATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
☑ ANNUAL  REPORT PURSUANT T O SECTION 13  OR 15(d)  OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended  December 31, 2019
or
 
☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT T O SECTION 13 OR 15(d)  OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from ______________ to ______________         
 
Commission File Number: 001-13545  (Prologis, Inc.) 001-14245  (Prologis, L.P .)
 
 
Prologis, Inc.
Prologis, L.P .
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Maryland  (Prologis, Inc.)
Delaware  (Prologis, L.P .)94-3281941  (Prologis, Inc.)
94-3285362  (Prologis, L.P .)
(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)(I.R.S. Employer
Identification No.)
  
Pier 1, Bay 1 , San Francisco , California 94111
(Address or principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
 
(415) 394-9000
(Registrant’ s telephone number , including area code)
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 
  Title of Each Class  Trading Symbol(s)  Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
Prologis, Inc.  Common Stock, $0.01 par value  PLD  New York Stock Exchange
Prologis, L.P .  1.375% Notes due 2021  PLD/21  New York Stock Exchange
Prologis, L.P .  3.000% Notes due 2022  PLD/22  New York Stock Exchange
Prologis, L.P .  3.375% Notes due 2024  PLD/24  New York Stock Exchange
Prologis, L.P .  3.000% Notes due 2026  PLD/26  New York Stock Exchange
Prologis, L.P .  2.250% Notes due 2029  PLD/29  New York Stock Exchange
Prologis, L.P .  Floating Rate Notes due 2020  PLD/20B  New York Stock Exchange
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
Prologis, Inc. – NONE
Prologis, L.P . – NONE
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Prologis, Inc.:  Yes ☑  No ☐ Prologis, L.P .:  Yes ☑  No ☐
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
Prologis, Inc.:  Yes ☐ No ☑ Prologis, L.P .:  Yes ☐ No ☑
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Prologis, Inc.: Yes ☑  No ☐  Prologis, L.P.:  Yes ☑  No ☐
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter periods that the registrant was required to submit such files). Prologis, Inc.: Yes ☑  No ☐ Prologis, L.P.:  Yes ☑  No ☐
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth
company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act (check one):
 
Prologis, Inc.: ☑ Large accelerated filer ☐ Accelerated filer ☐ Smaller reporting company
 ☐ Non-accelerated filer  ☐ Emerging growth company
 
Prologis, L.P.: ☐ Large accelerated filer ☐ Accelerated filer ☐   Smaller reporting company
 ☑ Non-accelerated filer  ☐   Emerging growth company
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934).
Prologis, Inc.:  Yes ☐  No ☑ Prologis, L.P.:  Yes ☐  No ☑
 
Based on the closing price of Prologis, Inc.’s common stock on June 30, 2019, the aggregate market value of the voting common equity held by nonaffiliates of Prologis,
Inc. was $50,236,866,166.
 
The number of shares of Prologis, Inc.’s common stock outstanding at February 5, 2020, was approximately 738,743,000.
 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
Portions of Part III of this report are incorporated by reference to the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for the 2020 annual meeting of its stockholders or will be
provided in an amendment filed on Form 10-K/A.
 
 
 
 
 
EXPLANATORY NOTE
 
This report combines the annual reports on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, of Prologis, Inc. and Prologis, L.P .
Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references to “Prologis, Inc.” or the “Parent” mean Prologis, Inc. and its
consolidated subsidiaries; and references to “Prologis, L.P .” or the “Operating Partnership” or the “OP” mean Prologis, L.P ., and its
consolidated subsidiaries. The terms “the Company ,” “Prologis,” “we,” “our” or “us” means the Parent and the OP  collectively .
 
The Parent is a real estate investment trust (a “REIT”) and the general partner of the OP . At December 31, 2019, the Parent owned
97.23% common general partnership interest in the OP  and 100% of the preferred units in the OP . The remaining 2.77% common
limited partnership interests are owned by unaf filiated investors and certain current and former directors and of ficers of the Parent.
 
We operate the Parent and the OP  as one enterprise. The management of the Parent consists of the same members as the
management of the OP . These members are of ficers of the Parent and employees of the OP  or one of its subsidiaries. As sole general
partner , the Parent has control of the OP  through complete responsibility and discretion in the day-to-day management and therefore,
consolidates the OP  for financial reporting purposes. Because the only significant asset of the Parent is its investment in the OP , the
assets and liabilities of the Parent and the OP  are the same on their respective financial statements.
 
We believe combining the annual reports on Form 10-K of the Parent and the OP  into this single report results in the following
benefits:
 
• enhances investors’  understanding of the Parent and the OP  by enabling investors to view the business as a whole in the same
manner as management views and operates the business;
 
• eliminates duplicative disclosure and provides a more streamlined and readable presentation as a substantial portion of the
Company’ s disclosure applies to both the Parent and the OP; and
 
• creates time and cost ef ficiencies through the preparation of one combined report instead of two separate reports.
 
It is important to understand the few dif ferences between the Parent and the OP  in the context of how we operate the Company . The
Parent does not conduct business itself, other than acting as the sole general partner of the OP  and issuing public equity from time to
time. The OP  holds substantially all the assets of the business, directly or indirectly . The OP  conducts the operations of the business
and is structured as a partnership with no publicly traded equity . Except for net proceeds from equity issuances by the Parent, which
are contributed to the OP  in exchange for partnership units, the OP  generates capital required by the business through the OP’ s
operations, incurrence of indebtedness and issuance of partnership units to third parties.
 
The presentation of noncontrolling interests, stockholders’  equity and partners’  capital are the main areas of dif ference between the
consolidated financial statements of the Parent and those of the OP . The dif ferences in the presentations between stockholders’  equity
and partners’  capital result from the dif ferences in the equity and capital issuances in the Parent and in the OP .
                
The preferred stock, common stock, additional paid-in capital, accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and distributions in
excess of net earnings of the Parent are presented as stockholders’  equity in the Parent’ s consolidated financial statements. These
items represent the common and preferred general partnership interests held by the Parent in the OP  and are presented as general
partner ’s capital within partners’  capital in the OP’ s consolidated financial statements. The common limited partnership interests held
by the limited partners in the OP  are presented as noncontrolling interest within equity in the Parent’ s consolidated financial
statements and as limited partners’  capital within partners’  capital in the OP’ s consolidated financial statements.
 
To highlight the dif ferences between the Parent and the OP , separate sections in this report, as applicable, individually discuss the
Parent and the OP , including separate financial statements and separate Exhibit 31 and 32 certifications. In the sections that combine
disclosure of the Parent and the OP , this report refers to actions or holdings as being actions or holdings of Prologis.
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
Item  Description  Page
  PART I   
1.  Business  3
  The Company  3
  Operating Segments  5
  Future Growth  6
  Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  9
  Environmental Stewardship, Social Responsibility and Governance  9
  Environmental Matters  9
  Governmental Matters  9
  Insurance Coverage  9
1A.  Risk Factors  9
1B.  Unresolved Staf f Comments  18
2.  Properties  18
  Geographic Distribution  18
  Lease Expirations  21
  Co-Investment V entures  22
3.  Legal Proceedings  22
4.  Mine Safety Disclosures  22
  PART II   
5.  Market for Registrant’ s Common Equity , Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  23
  Market Information and Holders  23
  Preferred Stock Dividends  23
  Sale of Unregistered Securities  23
  Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans  24
  Other Stockholder Matters  24
6.  Selected Financial Data  24
7.  Management’ s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  24
  Management’ s Overview  25
  Results of Operations  26
  Environmental Matters  34
  Liquidity and Capital Resources  34
  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  38
  Contractual Obligations  38
  Critical Accounting Policies  39
  New Accounting Pronouncements  40
  Funds from Operations Attributable to Common Stockholders/Unitholders  40
7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  42
8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  43
9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  43
9A.  Controls and Procedures  43
9B.  Other Information  44
  PART III   
10.  Directors, Executive Of ficers and Corporate Governance  45
11.  Executive Compensation  45
12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  45
13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  45
14.  Principal Accounting Fees and Services  45
  PART IV   
15.  Exhibits, Financial Statements and Schedules  45
16.  Form 10-K Summary  45
 
2
 
The statements in this report that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking
statements are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about the industry and markets in which we operate as well as
management’s beliefs and assumptions. Such statements involve uncertainties that could significantly impact our financial results. Words
such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” and “estimates” including variations of such words and similar
expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. All statements that
address operating performance, events or developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future — including statements
relating to rent and occupancy growth, acquisition and development activity, contribution and disposition activity, general conditions in the
geographic areas where we operate, our debt, capital structure and financial position, our ability to form new co-investment ventures and
the availability of capital in existing or new co-investment ventures — are forward-looking statements. These statements are not
guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Although we believe
the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our
expectations will be attained, and therefore actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in
such forward-looking statements. Some of the factors that may affect outcomes and results include, but are not limited to: (i) national,
international, regional and local economic and political climates; (ii) changes in global financial markets, interest rates and foreign
currency exchange rates; (iii) increased or unanticipated competition for our properties; (iv) risks associated with acquisitions, dispositions
and development of properties; (v) maintenance of Real Estate Investment Trust (“REIT”) status, tax structuring and changes in income
tax laws and rates; (vi) availability of financing and capital, the levels of debt that we maintain and our credit ratings; (vii) risks related to
our investments in our co-investment ventures, including our ability to establish new co-investment ventures; (viii) risks of doing business
internationally, including currency risks; (ix) environmental uncertainties, including risks of natural disasters; and (x) those additional
factors discussed under Item 1A. Risk Factors in this report. We undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statements appearing
in this report except as may be required by law.
 
PART I
 
ITEM 1. Business
 
Prologis, Inc. is a self-administered and self-managed REIT  and is the sole general partner of Prologis, L.P . through which it holds
substantially all of its assets. W e operate Prologis, Inc. and Prologis, L.P . as one enterprise and, therefore, our discussion and
analysis refers to Prologis, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, including Prologis, L.P . We invest in real estate through wholly
owned subsidiaries and other entities through which we co-invest with partners and investors. W e have a significant ownership in the
co-investment ventures, which may be consolidated or unconsolidated based on our level of control of the entity .
 
Prologis, Inc. began operating as a fully integrated real estate company in 1997 and elected to be taxed as a REIT  under the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (“Internal Revenue Code” or “IRC”). W e believe the current organization and method of
operation will enable Prologis, Inc. to maintain its status as a REIT . Prologis, L.P . was also formed in 1997.
 
We operate and manage our business on an owned and managed (“O&M”) basis and therefore evaluate the operating performance of
the properties for our O&M portfolio, which includes our consolidated properties and properties owned by our unconsolidated co-
investment ventures. W e make operating decisions based on our total O&M portfolio, as we manage the properties regardless of
ownership. W e also evaluate our results based on our proportionate economic ownership of each property included in the O&M
portfolio (“our share”) as it represents the financial results of our share of the O&M portfolio.
 
Included in our discussion below are references to funds from operations (“FFO”) and net operating income (“NOI”), neither of which
are U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). See Item 7. Management’ s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations for a reconciliation of Net Earnings Attributable to Common Stockholders  in the Consolidated
Statements of Income to our FFO measures and a reconciliation of NOI to Operating Income, the most directly comparable GAAP
measure.
 
Our corporate headquarters is located at Pier 1, Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111, and our other principal of fice locations are in
Amsterdam, Denver , Luxembourg, Mexico City , Shanghai, Singapore and Tokyo.
 
Our Internet address is www .prologis.com. All reports required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) are
available and can be accessed free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our website. The common stock of Prologis,
Inc. is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the ticker “PLD” and is a component of the Standard & Poor ’s (“S&P”)
500.
 
THE COMPANY
 
As the global leader in logistics real estate, Prologis has a presence in 19 countries across four continents. W e own, manage and
develop well-located, high-quality logistics facilities, with a focus on the consumption side of the global supply chain. Our local teams
actively manage our portfolio, which encompasses leasing and property management, capital deployment and opportunistic
dispositions, generally allowing us to recycle capital to self-fund our development and acquisition activities. The majority of our
properties in the United States (“U.S.”) are wholly owned, while our properties outside the U.S. are primarily held in co-investment
ventures which has the benefit of mitigating our exposure to foreign currency movements.
 
Our portfolio is focused on the world’ s most vibrant centers of commerce and our scale allows us to respond to our customers’  needs
for the highest-quality buildings across these locations. As e-commerce increasingly moves to the forefront of the global supply chain,
it
3
 
drives demand for logistics real estate close to the end consumer . Over time,  we have invested in properties located withi n infill and
urban areas in our  largest global markets with immediate access to the consumer population; these are our Last Touch ® facilities. This
positioning gives us the unique ability to provide our customers with the right solutions in their supply chains  that,  in turn , allows them
to meet end consumer expectations. As we look to the future of logistics real estate, we strive to innovate through the development of
multistory logistics facilities, creating community workforce programs to develop skilled labor , leveraging technology to invest in data
driven operational ef ficiencies and negotiating better pricing on common products and services that our customers need. Our
customers turn to us because they know that a strategic relationship with Prologis is a competitive advantage.
 
At December 31, 2019, we owned or had investments in properties, on a wholly-owned basis or through ventures, in the following
geographies (dollars in billions, based on gross book value and total expected investment (as defined below) and square feet in
millions):
 
 
On January 8, 2020, our two U.S. co-investment ventures acquired the wholly-owned real estate assets of Industrial Property Trust
Inc. (“IPT”) for approximately $4 billion (our investment was approximately $1.6 billion). The portfolio included 236 properties,
aggregating 38 million square feet. The portfolio was generally split evenly between the two co-investment ventures.
 
On February 4, 2020, we acquired Liberty Property Trust and Liberty Property Limited Partnership (collectively “Liberty”) through a
merger transaction which we refer to as the “Liberty Transaction” and is fully detailed in Note 20 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements. The Liberty portfolio was primarily comprised of logistics real estate assets, including 550 industrial operating properties,
aggregating 108 million square feet, which were highly complementary to our U.S. portfolio in terms of product quality , location and
growth potential. The portfolio also included development in progress and land for future logistics facilities and of fice properties. The
acquisition expanded our presence in target markets such as Lehigh V alley, Chicago, Houston, Central Pennsylvania, New Jersey and
Southern California. The total acquisition price was approximately $13 billion through the issuance of equity based on the value of the
Prologis common stock issued using the closing price on February 3, 2020 and the assumption of debt. As a result of the closely
aligned portfolios and similar business strategy , we anticipate integrating the IPT  and Liberty properties while adding minimal property
management expenses and further scaling our operations.
 
Throughout this discussion, we reflect amounts in U.S. dollars, our reporting currency . Included in these amounts are consolidated
and unconsolidated investments denominated in foreign currencies, principally the British pound sterling, euro and Japanese yen that
are impacted by fluctuations in exchange rates when translated to U.S. dollars. W e mitigate our exposure to foreign currency
fluctuations by investing outside the U.S. through co-investment ventures, borrowing in the functional currency of our consolidated
subsidiaries and utilizing derivative financial instruments.
 
4
 
OPERATING SEGMENTS
 
Our business comprises two operating segments: Real Estate Operations and Strategic Capital.
 
Below is information summarizing consolidated activity within our segments over the last three years (in millions):
 
 
(1)  NOI from Real Estate Operations is calculated directly from our Consolidated Financial Statements as Rental Revenues  and
Development Management and Other Revenues less Rental Expenses  and Other Expenses.
 
(2) A developed property moves into the operating portfolio when it meets our definition of stabilization, which is the earlier of one
year after completion or reaching 90% occupancy . Amounts represent our total expected investment (“TEI”), which includes the
estimated cost of development, including land, construction and leasing costs.
 
 
Real Estate Operations
 
Rental.  Rental operations comprise the largest component of our operating segments and generally contribute 85% to 90% of our
consolidated revenues, earnings and funds from operations (“FFO”). W e collect rent from our customers through long-term operating
leases, including reimbursements for the majority of our property operating costs. W e expect to generate long-term internal growth by
increasing rents, maintaining high occupancy rates and controlling expenses. The primary driver of our revenue growth will be rolling
in-place leases to current market rents, which are increasing in the majority of our markets. W e believe our active portfolio
management, combined with the skills of our property , leasing, maintenance, capital, energy , sustainability and risk management
teams, allow us to maximize NOI across our portfolio. A significant amount of our rental revenue, NOI and cash flows are generated in
the U.S.
 
Development. Given the scarcity of modern logistics facilities in urban centers, our development business allows us to build what our
customers need. W e develop properties to meet these needs, deepen our market presence and refresh our portfolio quality . We
believe we have a competitive advantage due to (i) the strategic locations of our land bank; (ii) the development expertise of our local
teams; and (iii) the depth of our customer relationships. Successful development and redevelopment ef forts provide significant
earnings growth as projects lease up and generate income and increase the net asset value of our Real Estate Operations segment.
Based on our current estimates, our consolidated land, including options, has the potential to support the development of $9.4 billion
of TEI of new logistics space. Generally , we develop properties in the U.S. for long-term hold and outside the U.S. for contribution to
our unconsolidated co-investment ventures.
 
Strategic Capital
 
Our strategic capital segment allows us to partner with some of the world’ s largest institutional investors to grow our business through
private capital. W e also access capital in this segment through two publicly traded vehicles: Nippon Prologis REIT , Inc. in Japan and
FIBRA  Prologis in Mexico. W e align our interests with those of our partners by holding significant ownership interests in all of our
unconsolidated co-investment ventures (ranging from 15% to 50%), which generally allows us to reduce our exposure to foreign
currency movements for investments outside the U.S.
 
This segment produces stable, long-term cash flows and generally contributes 10% to 15% of our consolidated revenues, earnings
and FFO. W e generate strategic capital revenues from our unconsolidated co-investment ventures, principally through asset and
property management services. These revenues are principally earned from open-ended or long-term ventures. W e earn additional
revenues by providing leasing, acquisition, construction, development, legal and disposition services. In certain ventures, we also
have the ability to earn revenues through incentive fees (“promotes” or “promote revenues”) periodically during the life of a venture or
upon liquidation. W e plan to profitably grow this business by increasing our assets under management in existing or new ventures.
Most of the strategic capital revenues are generated outside the U.S. NOI in this segment is calculated directly from our Consolidated
Financial Statements as Strategic Capital Revenues  less Strategic Capital Expenses  and excludes property-related NOI.
 
5
 
FUTURE GROWTH
 
We believe the quality and scale of our global portfolio, the expertise of our team, the depth of our customer relationships and the
strength of our balance sheet give us unique competitive advantages to grow revenues, NOI, earnings, FFO and cash flows.
 
 
(1) General and Administrative (“G&A”) Expenses  is a line item in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Adjusted G&A expenses
is calculated from our Consolidated Financial Statements as G&A Expenses and Strategic Capital Expenses , less expenses
under the Prologis Promote Plan (“PPP”) and property-level management expenses for the properties owned by the ventures .
 
• Rent Growth.  We expect market rents to continue to grow over the next few years, driven by demand for the location and
quality of our properties. Due to strong market rent growth over the last several years, our in-place leases have considerable
upside potential. W e estimate that our leases are more than 15% below current market rent on the basis of our weighted
average ownership at December 31, 2019. Therefore, even if market rent growth remains flat, a lease renewal will translate into
increased future rental income, on a consolidated basis or through the earnings we recognize from our unconsolidated co-
investment ventures based on our ownership. W e have experienced positive rent change on rollover (comparing the net
effective rent (“NER”) of the new lease to the prior lease for the same space) every quarter since 2013. W e expect this trend to
continue for several more years due to our current in-place rents being below market coupled with increasing market rents.
 
• Value Creation from Development.  A successful development and redevelopment program involves maintaining control of
well-located and entitled land. W e believe that the carrying value of our land bank is below its current fair value. Due to the
strategic nature of our land bank and development expertise of our teams, we expect to create value as we build out the land
bank. W e measure the estimated value of a development project as the margin above our anticipated cost to develop. W e
calculate the margin by comparing the estimated yield on the investment to capitalization rates from our underwriting models. As
properties under development stabilize, we expect to realize the value creation principally through contributions to the
unconsolidated co-investment ventures and increases in the NOI of our operating portfolio.
 
• Economies of Scale from Growth.  We use adjusted G&A  expenses as a percentage of the O&M portfolio to measure and
manage our overhead costs. W e have the systems and infrastructure in place to grow both our consolidated portfolio and O&M
portfolio with limited incremental G&A  expense. W e believe we can continue to grow NOI and strategic capital revenues
organically and through accretive development and acquisition activity while further reducing G&A  as a percentage of our
investments in real estate. The acquisitions of the Liberty and IPT  portfolios are key examples of this where we increased our
O&M portfolio by $17.0 billion and expect minimal increases to G&A  expenses.
 
• Staying “Ahead of What’ s Next™”.  We are working on initiatives to create value beyond the real estate by reengineering our
customers’  experience, utilizing our scale to streamline our procurement activities and negotiating better pricing on products and
services for us and our customers, as well as delivering enhancements to our business through innovation and data analytics.
 
Competition
 
Real estate ownership is highly fragmented, and we therefore face competition from many owners and operators. Competitively priced
logistics space could impact our occupancy rates and have an adverse ef fect on how much rent we can charge, which in turn could
affect our operating results. W e may face competition regarding our capital deployment activities, including local, regional and national
operators or developers. W e also face competition from investment managers for institutional capital within our strategic capital
business.
 
Despite the competition we may face, our strategic focus over the years has given us distinct competitive advantages, including the
following:
 
• a portfolio of properties strategically located in markets characterized by large population densities and growing consumption,
typically near large labor pools and extensive transportation infrastructure, including our Last Touch ® facilities;
 
• the development of logistics facilities with sustainable design features that will continue to meet customer needs for high-quality
buildings;
6
 
 
• established relationships with customers served by our experienced and responsive local and regional teams;
 
• the ability to leverage our organizational scale and structure to provide a single point of contact for our focus customers to solve
concerns and address their needs through our in-house global customer solutions team;
 
• an investment across the portfolio in environmental stewardship, social responsibility and governance (“ESG”) practices that
enhance asset value while improving sustainability performance;
 
• proven property management and leasing expertise;
 
• relationships and successful track record with current and prospective investors in our strategic capital business;
 
• a strategically located land bank;
 
• local teams with development expertise; and
 
• a strong balance sheet and credit ratings, coupled with significant liquidity .
 
Customers
 
Our broad customer base represents a spectrum of international, national, regional and local logistics users. At December 31, 2019, in
our Real Estate Operations segment representing our consolidated properties, we had more than 2,900 customers occupying 362
million square feet of logistics operating properties. Below are the primary types of goods in our buildings for our consolidated real
estate properties at December 31, 2019:
 
 
(1) NER is calculated using the estimated total cash to be received over the term of the lease divided by the lease term to
determine the amount of cash rent payments received per year . Amounts derived in a currency other than the U.S. dollar have
been translated using the average rate from the previous year . 
 
7
 
The following table details our top 25 customers for our consolidated real estate properties  at December 31, 2019  (square feet in
millions):
 
Top Customers % of NER   Total Occupied Square Feet  
1.   Amazon  5.8   17 
2.   Home Depot  1.9   7 
3.   FedEx  1.7   4 
4.   UPS  1.3   4 
5.   Geodis  0.9   4 
6.   XPO Logistics  0.8   3 
7.   U.S. Government  0.8   1 
8.   NFI  0.7   2 
9.   W al-Mart  0.7   2 
10. DHL  0.6   2 
Top 10 Customers  15.2   46 
11. PepsiCo  0.6   3 
12. Of fice Depot  0.5   2 
13. DSV Air and Sea  0.5   2 
14. Kimberly-Clark  0.5   3 
15. Ingram Micro  0.4   2 
16. Kuehne + Nagel  0.4   1 
17. APL Logistics  0.4   2 
18. Bed Bath & Beyond, Inc.  0.4   2 
19. Georgia-Pacific  0.4   1 
20. Expeditors International of W ashington, Inc.  0.3   1 
21. C&S Wholesale Grocers  0.3   1 
22. Anixter International Inc.  0.3   1 
23. Essendant  0.3   2 
24. International Paper  0.3   1 
25. Ford Motor  0.3   1 
Top 25 Customers  21.1   71
 
 
In our Strategic Capital segment, we view our partners and investors as our customers. At December 31, 2019, in our co-investment
ventures, we partnered with approximately 132 investors, several of which invest in multiple ventures.
 
Employees
 
We believe our employees are the most important part of our business. When attracting, developing and retaining talent, we seek
individuals who hold varied experiences and viewpoints to create an inclusive and diverse culture and workplace that allows each
employee to do their best work and drive our collective success. W e focus on leadership development at every level of the
organization. W e align employees’  goals with our overall strategic direction to create a clear link between individual ef forts and the
long-term success of the organization and then provide ef fective feedback on their performance towards goals to ensure their growth.
We believe a commitment to our employees’  learning and development through training, educational opportunities and mentorship is
critical to our ability to continue to innovate. Through performance plans, talent recognition and individual development planning, along
with reward packages, we advance our talent pool and create a sustainable and long-term enterprise.
 
The following table summarizes our total number of employees at December 31, 2019:
 
Geographies     
U.S. (1)   932 
Other Americas   139 
Europe   398 
Asia   243 
Total   1,712
 
 
(1) This includes employees who were based in the U.S. but also support other geographies.
 
We allocate the employee costs to provide property management and leasing functions to our Real Estate Operations and Strategic
Capital segments based on the square footage of the respective portfolios. The employee costs to perform only Strategic Capital
functions are allocated directly to that segment.
 
We believe we have good relationships with our employees. Prologis employees are not organized under collective bargaining
agreements, other than in Brazil, although some employees in Europe are represented by statutory W orks Councils and as such,
benefit from applicable labor agreements.
8
 
 
CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT
 
We maintain a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applicable to our board of directors (the “Board”) and all of our of ficers and
employees, including the principal executive of ficer, the principal financial of ficer and the principal accounting of ficer, and other people
performing similar functions. A copy of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is available on our website, www .prologis.com . In
addition to being accessible through our website, copies of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct can be obtained, free of charge,
upon written request to Investor Relations, Pier 1, Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111. Any amendments to or waivers of our Code
of Ethics and Business Conduct that apply to the principal executive of ficer, the principal financial of ficer, the principal accounting
officer, or other people performing similar functions, and that relate to any matter enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K, will be
disclosed on our website.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP, SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND GOVERNANCE (“ESG”)
 
The principles of ESG are a natural fit in our business strategy . ESG creates value for our company by strengthening our relationships
with our customers, investors, employees and the communities in which we do business — delivering a strategic business advantage
while positively impacting the environment. W e develop modern and ef ficient building designs with state-of-the-art technology to stay
ahead of our customers’  needs while advancing structural, transportation, and energy requirements. W e invest in sustainable design
features and practices, such as the addition of solar panels, cool roofs, light emitting diode (“LED”) lighting, electric vehicle charging
stations, waste and diversion recycling and xeriscaping, that result in cost-savings and operational ef ficiency for our customers and
reduce energy and water consumption, as well as decrease greenhouse gas emissions across our portfolio and corporate operations.
 
We are committed to social responsibility and strengthening relationships important to our business through customer partnerships,
investor outreach, community involvement, labor solutions and inclusion and diversity initiatives, as well as a focus on our employees
and our customers’  employees through health and wellness programs and building design. Through our community workforce
initiative, for example, we partner with local community organizations to provide logistics training and help our customers with their
labor needs, while benefitting local economies and providing new career opportunities. Our strong governance and oversight allows
us to mitigate risk and preserve value, creating a culture of uncompromising integrity through our Board independence and diversity ,
open communication with our stockholders and a risk management framework that supports our investment and process decisions.
The strength of our balance sheet and credit ratings, ability to stay ahead of customer needs, engagement with our employees
through ethics and anti-corruption training, along with stockholder outreach ensures the financial, operational and reputational
resilience of our organization for the long-term. Our approach is reinforced by our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, as described
above.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
 
We are exposed to various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses and af fect our operating results and financial
condition. Either the previous owners or we have conducted environmental reviews on a majority of the properties we have acquired,
including land. While some of these assessments have led to further investigation and sampling, none of the environmental
assessments have revealed an environmental liability , in excess of what was provided for in the underwriting of the acquisition, that
we believe would have a material adverse ef fect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See further discussion in
Item 1A. Risk Factors and Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data.
 
GOVERNMENTAL MATTERS
 
We are exposed to various regulatory requirements, taxes, tarif fs, trade wars and laws within the countries in which we operate and
unexpected changes in these items may result in unanticipated losses, adverse tax consequences and af fect our operating results
and financial condition. In addition, we may be impacted by the ability of our non-U.S. subsidiaries to dividend or otherwise transfer
cash among our subsidiaries due to currency exchange control regulations and transfer pricing regulations. The impact of regional or
country-specific economic instability , including government shutdowns or other internal trade alliances or agreements could also have
a material adverse ef fect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See further discussion in Item 1A. Risk Factors.
 
INSURANCE COVERAGE
 
We carry insurance coverage on our properties. W e determine the type of coverage and the policy specifications and limits based on
what we deem to be the risks associated with our ownership of properties and our business operations in specific markets. Such
coverage typically includes property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from such perils as fire, windstorm, flood, earthquake
and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance. Insurance is maintained through a combination of
commercial insurance, self-insurance and a wholly-owned captive insurance entity . The costs to insure our properties are primarily
covered through reimbursements from our customers. W e believe our insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured
limits that are customary for similar properties, business activities and markets and we believe our properties are adequately insured.
See further discussion in Item 1A. Risk Factors.
 
ITEM 1A. Risk Factors
 
Our operations and structure involve various risks that could adversely af fect our business and financial condition, including but not
limited to, our financial position, results of operations, cash flow , ability to make distributions and payments to security holders and the
market value of our securities. These risks relate to Prologis as well as our investments in consolidated and unconsolidated entities
and
9
 
include among others, (i) general risks; (ii) risks related to our business; (iii) risks related to financing and capital; and (iv) income tax
risks.
 
General Risks
 
As a global company , we are subject to social, political and economic risks of doing business in many countries.
 
We conduct a significant portion of our business and employ a substantial number of people outside of the U.S. During 2019, we
generated approximately $599 million or 18.0% of our revenues from operations outside the U.S. Circumstances and developments
related to international operations that could negatively af fect us include, but are not limited to, the following factors:
 
• difficulties and costs of staf fing and managing international operations in certain geographies, including dif fering employment
practices and labor issues;
 
• local businesses and cultural factors that dif fer from our usual standards and practices;
 
• volatility in currencies and currency restrictions, which may prevent the transfer of capital and profits to the U.S.;
 
• challenges in establishing ef fective controls and procedures to regulate operations in dif ferent geographies and to monitor
compliance with applicable regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) Bribery Act and
other similar laws;  
 
• unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, tarif fs, trade wars and laws within the countries in which we operate;
 
• potentially adverse tax consequences;
 
• the responsibility of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, e.g., with respect to corrupt practices, employment
and licensing;
 
• the impact of regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability , including government shutdowns, uncertainty
in the U.K., or further withdrawals from the European Union or other international trade alliances or agreements;
 
• political instability , uncertainty over property rights, civil unrest, drug traf ficking, political activism or the continuation or escalation
of terrorist or gang activities;
 
• foreign ownership restrictions in operations with the respective countries; and
 
• access to capital may be more restricted, or unavailable on favorable terms or at all in certain locations.
 
In addition, we may be impacted by the ability of our non-U.S. subsidiaries to dividend or otherwise transfer cash among our
subsidiaries due to currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations and potentially adverse tax consequences,
among other factors.
 
Disruptions in the global capital and credit markets may adversely af fect our operating results and financial condition.
 
To the extent there is turmoil in the global financial markets, this turmoil has the potential to adversely af fect (i) the value of our
properties; (ii) the availability or the terms of financing that we have or may anticipate utilizing; (iii) our ability to make principal and
interest payments on, or refinance any outstanding debt when due; and (iv) the ability of our customers to enter into new leasing
transactions or satisfy rental payments under existing leases. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets may also adversely af fect
the market price of our securities and our ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders.
 
Our business and operations could suf fer in the event of system failures or cyber security attacks.
 
Despite system redundancy , the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal
and hosted information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including energy
blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war , telecommunication failures and cyber security attacks, such as computer viruses or
unauthorized access. Any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to
our business. W e may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. Any compromise of our security
could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, unauthorized access to information of ours and others, significant legal
and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information and a loss of confidence in our security measures,
which could harm our business.
 
Risks associated with our dependence on key personnel.
 
We depend on the deep industry knowledge and the ef forts of our executive of ficers and other key employees. From time to time, our
personnel and their roles may change. While we believe that we are able to retain our key talent and find suitable employees to meet
10
 
our needs, the loss of key personnel, any change in their roles or the limitation of their availability could adversely af fect our business.
If we are unable to continue to attract and retain our executive of ficers, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain key
employees become more expensive, our performance and competitive position could be materially adversely af fected.
 
Our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal
control over financial reporting.
 
The design and ef fectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management continually reviews the ef fectiveness of our disclosure controls
and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting
will be ef fective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal
control over financial reporting that may occur in the future could result in misstatements or restatements of our financial statements or
a decline in the price of our securities.
 
The depreciation in the value of the foreign currency in countries where we have a significant investment may adversely
affect our results of operations and financial position.
 
We hold significant real estate investments in international markets where the U.S. dollar is not the functional currency . At December
31, 2019, approximately $7.4 billion or 18.5% of our total consolidated assets were invested in a currency other than the U.S. dollar ,
principally the British pound sterling, euro and Japanese yen. For the year ended December 31, 2019, $413 million or 17.2% of our
total consolidated segment NOI was denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar . As a result, we are subject to foreign
currency risk due to potential fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar . A significant change in the
value of the foreign currency of one or more countries where we have a significant investment may have a material adverse ef fect on
our business and, specifically , our U.S. dollar reported financial position and results of operations.
 
Our hedging of foreign currency and interest rate risk may not ef fectively limit our exposure to other risks.
 
We attempt to mitigate our risk by borrowing in the currencies in which we have significant investments thereby providing a natural
hedge. W e may also enter into derivative financial instruments that we designate as net investment hedges, as these amounts of fset
the translation adjustments on the underlying net assets of our foreign investments. W e enter into other foreign currency contracts,
such as forwards, to reduce fluctuations in foreign currency cash flow associated with the translation of future earnings  of our
international subsidiaries. Although we attempt to mitigate the potential adverse ef fects of changes in foreign currency rates there can
be no assurance that those attempts will be successful.  Hedging arrangements involve risks, such as the risk of fluctuation in the
relative value of the foreign currency or interest rates and the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these
arrangements. The funds required to settle such arrangements could be significant depending on the stability and movement of the
hedged foreign currency or the size of the underlying financing and the applicable interest rates at the time of the breakage. The
failure to hedge ef fectively against foreign exchange changes or interest rate changes may adversely af fect our business.
 
Compliance or failure to comply with regulatory requirements could result in substantial costs.
 
We are required to comply with many regulations in dif ferent countries, including (but not limited to) the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act,
the U.K. Bribery Act and similar laws and regulations. Our properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory
requirements, such as the Americans with Disabilities Act and state and local fire and life-safety requirements. Noncompliance could
result in the imposition of governmental fines or the award of damages to private litigants. While we believe that we are currently in
material compliance with these regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new requirements may be imposed that
could require significant unanticipated expenditures by us.
 
Risks Related to our Business
 
Real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of assets, which may reduce economic returns to investors.
 
Real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of investments and this lack of liquidity may limit our ability to react
promptly to changes in economic or other conditions. Significant expenditures associated with real estate investments, such as
secured mortgage debt payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a
reduction in income from the investments. As a REIT , under the IRC, we are only able to hold property for sale in the ordinary course
of business through taxable REIT  subsidiaries in order to not incur punitive taxation on any tax gain from the sale of such property . We
may dispose of certain properties that have been held for investment to generate liquidity . If we do not satisfy certain safe harbors or
we believe there is too much risk of incurring the punitive tax on any tax gain from the sale, we may not pursue such sales.
 
We may decide to sell or contribute properties to certain of our unconsolidated co-investment ventures or sell properties to third
parties to generate proceeds to fund our capital deployment activities. Our ability to sell or contribute properties on advantageous
terms is af fected by: (i) competition from other owners of properties that are trying to dispose of their properties; (ii) market conditions,
including the capitalization rates applicable to our properties; and (iii) other factors beyond our control. If our competitors sell assets
similar to assets we intend to divest in the same markets or at valuations below our valuations for comparable assets, we may be
unable to divest our assets at favorable pricing or at all. The unconsolidated co-investment ventures or third parties who might acquire
our properties may need to have access to debt and equity capital, in the private and public markets, in order to acquire properties
from us. Should they have limited or no access to capital on favorable terms, then dispositions and contributions could be delayed.
11
 
 
If we do not have suf ficient cash available to us through our operations, sales or contributions of properties or available credit facilities
to continue operating our business as usual, we may need to find alternative ways to increase our liquidity . Such alternatives may
include, without limitation, divesting properties, whether or not they otherwise meet our strategic objectives to keep in the long term, at
less than optimal terms, incurring debt, entering into leases with new customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms or
entering into lease renewals with our existing customers without an increase in rental rates. There can be no assurance, however , that
such alternative ways to increase our liquidity will be available to us. Additionally , taking such measures to increase our liquidity may
adversely af fect our business, and in particular , our distributable cash flow and debt covenants.
 
Our investments are concentrated in the logistics sector and our business would be adversely af fected by an economic
downturn in that sector .
 
Our investments in real estate assets are concentrated in the logistics sector . This concentration may expose us to the risk of
economic downturns in this sector to a greater extent than if our business activities were more diversified.
 
General economic conditions and other events or occurrences that af fect areas in which our properties are geographically
concentrated, may impact financial results.
 
We are exposed to general economic conditions, local, regional, national and international economic conditions and other events and
occurrences that af fect the markets in which we own properties. Our operating performance is further impacted by the economic
conditions of the specific markets in which we have concentrations of properties.
 
At December 31, 2019, 35.0% of our consolidated operating properties or $11.2 billion (based on consolidated gross book value, or
investment before depreciation) were located in California (Central V alley, San Francisco Bay Area and Southern California markets),
which represented 28.6% of the aggregate square footage of our operating properties and 28.4% of our NOI. Our revenues from, and
the value of, our properties located in California may be af fected by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or reduced
demand for logistics properties) and the local economic climate. Business layof fs, downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing
demographics and other factors may adversely impact California’ s economic climate. Because of the investment we have located in
California, a downturn in California’ s economy or real estate conditions, including state income tax and property tax laws, could
adversely af fect our business.
 
In addition to California, we also have significant holdings (defined as more than 3% of total consolidated investment before
depreciation) in operating properties in certain markets located in Atlanta, Central and Eastern Pennsylvania, Chicago, Dallas/Fort
Worth, Houston, New Jersey/New York City , Seattle and South Florida. Of these markets, no single market contributed more than 10%
of our total consolidated investment before depreciation. Our operating performance could be adversely af fected if conditions become
less favorable in any of the markets in which we have a concentration of properties. Conditions such as an oversupply of logistics
space or a reduction in demand for logistics space, among other factors, may impact operating conditions. Any material oversupply of
logistics space or material reduction in demand for logistics space could adversely af fect our overall business.  
 
Our O&M portfolio, which includes our wholly-owned properties and properties included in our co-investment ventures, has
concentrations of properties in the same markets mentioned above, as well as in markets in France, Germany , Japan, Mexico and the
U.K., and are subject to the economic conditions in those markets.
 
A number of our investments, both wholly-owned and owned through co-investment ventures, are located in areas that are known to
be subject to earthquake activity . U.S. properties located in active seismic areas include properties in our markets in California and
Seattle. International properties located in active seismic areas include Japan and Mexico. W e generally carry earthquake insurance
on our properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity , subject to coverage limitations and deductibles, if we believe
it is commercially reasonable. W e evaluate our earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an
analysis prepared by outside consultants and in some specific instances have elected to self-insure our earthquake exposure based
on this analysis. W e have elected not to carry earthquake insurance for our assets in Japan based on this analysis.
 
Furthermore, a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to hurricane or flood risk. W e carry
hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to such activity , subject to coverage
limitations and deductibles, if we believe it is commercially reasonable. W e evaluate our insurance coverage annually in light of
current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants.
 
Investments in real estate properties are subject to risks that could adversely af fect our business.
 
Investments in real estate properties are subject to varying degrees of risk. While we seek to minimize these risks through geographic
diversification of our portfolio, market research and our asset management capabilities, these risks cannot be eliminated. Factors that
may af fect real estate values and cash flows include:
 
• local conditions, such as oversupply or a reduction in demand;
 
• technological changes, such as reconfiguration of supply chains, autonomous vehicles, robotics, 3D printing or other
technologies;
12
 
 
• the attractiveness of our properties to potential customers and competition from other available properties;
 
• increasing costs of maintaining, insuring, renovating and making improvements to our properties;
 
• our ability to rehabilitate and reposition our properties due to changes in the business and logistics needs of our customers;
 
• our ability to control rents and variable operating costs; and
 
• governmental regulations and the associated potential liability under , and changes in, environmental, zoning, usage, tax, tarif fs
and other laws.
 
Our customers may be unable to meet their lease obligations or we may be unable to lease vacant space or renew leases or
re-lease space on favorable terms as leases expire.
 
Our operating results and distributable cash flow would be adversely af fected if a significant number of our customers were unable to
meet their lease obligations. At December 31, 2019, our top 10 customers accounted for 15.2% of our NER. In the event of default by
a significant number of customers, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord, and we
may be unable to re-lease spaces. A customer may experience a downturn in its business, which may cause the loss of the customer
or may weaken its financial condition, resulting in the customer ’s failure to make rental payments when due or requiring a restructuring
that might reduce cash flow from the lease. In addition, a customer may seek the protection of bankruptcy , insolvency or similar laws,
which could result in the rejection and termination of such customer ’s lease and thereby cause a reduction in our available cash flow .
 
We are also subject to the risk that, upon the expiration of leases they may not be renewed by existing customers, the space may not
be re-leased to new customers or the terms of renewal or re-leasing (including the cost of required renovations or concessions to
customers) may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. Our competitors may of fer space at rental rates below current
market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose potential customers, and we may be pressured
to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge to retain customers when leases expire.
 
We may acquire properties that involve risks that could adversely af fect our business and financial condition.  
 
We have acquired properties and will continue to acquire properties, through the direct acquisition of real estate and the acquisition of
entities that own the real estate and through additional investments in co-investment ventures that acquire properties. The acquisition
of properties involves risks, including the risk that the acquired property will not perform as anticipated and that any actual costs for
rehabilitation, repositioning, renovation and improvements identified in the pre-acquisition due diligence process will exceed
estimates. When we acquire properties, we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local
economy , forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures.
Additionally , there is, and it is expected there will continue to be, significant competition for properties that meet our investment criteria
as well as risks associated with obtaining financing for acquisition activities. The acquired properties or entities may be subject to
liabilities, including tax liabilities, which may be without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities.
As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based on ownership of any of these entities or properties, then we may have to pay
substantial sums to settle it.
 
We may be unable to integrate the Liberty and IPT operations successfully and realize the anticipated synergies and other
benefits or do so within the anticipated timeframe.
 
We will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the operations of Liberty and IPT .
Potential dif ficulties we may encounter in the integration process include the following:
 
• the inability to successfully integrate the operations of Liberty and IPT  in a manner that permits us to achieve the cost savings
anticipated to result from these transactions, which would result in the anticipated benefits not being realized in the timeframe
currently anticipated or at all;
 
• the inability to dispose of non-industrial assets or operations that are outside of our area of expertise;
 
• potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with these
transactions; and
 
• performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management's attention caused by completing these transactions and
integrating the companies' operations.
 
For all these reasons, it is possible that the integration process could result in the distraction of our management, the disruption of our
ongoing business or inconsistencies in our operations, services, standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could
adversely af fect the ability of Prologis to maintain relationships with customers, vendors and employees or to achieve the anticipated
benefits of these transactions, or could otherwise adversely af fect our business and financial results.
 
13
 
Our real estate development strategies may not be successful.
 
Our real estate development strategy is focused on monetizing land in the future through development of logistics facilities to hold for
long-term investment, contribution or sale to a co-investment venture or third party , depending on market conditions, our liquidity
needs and other factors. W e may increase our investment in the development, renovation and redevelopment business and we
expect to complete the build-out and leasing of our current development portfolio. W e may also develop, renovate and redevelop
properties within existing or newly formed co-investment ventures. The real estate development, renovation and redevelopment
business includes the following significant risks:
 
• we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms or at all;
 
• we may explore development opportunities that may be abandoned and the related investment impaired;
 
• we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and
other governmental permits and authorizations;
 
• we may have construction costs that exceed our estimates and projects may not be completed, delivered or stabilized as
planned due to defects or other issues;
 
• we may not be able to attract third-party investment in new development co-investment ventures or suf ficient customer demand
for our product;
 
• we may have properties that perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts;
 
• we may seek to sell certain land parcels and not be able to find a third party to acquire such land or the sales price will not allow
us to recover our investment, resulting in impairment charges;
 
• we may not be able to lease properties we develop on favorable terms or at all;
 
• we may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced value created by our value-added properties on expected timetables or
at all;
 
• we may experience delays (temporary or permanent) if there is public or government opposition to our activities; and
 
• we may have substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment activities, regardless of their ultimate success, that
require a significant amount of management’ s time and attention, diverting their attention from our day-to-day operations.
 
We are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with forming co-investment ventures, investing in new or existing co-
investment ventures, attracting third-party investment and managing properties through co-investment ventures.
 
At December 31, 2019, we had investments in co-investment ventures, both public and private, that owned operating properties with a
gross book value of approximately $41 billion. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may
invest in these ventures, and we may and currently intend to develop and acquire properties through co-investment ventures and
investments in other entities when warranted by the circumstances. However , there can be no assurance that we will be able to form
new co-investment ventures, or attract third-party investment or that additional investments in new or existing ventures to develop or
acquire properties will be successful. Further , there can be no assurance that we are able to realize value from such investments.
 
Our co-investment ventures involve certain additional risks that we do not otherwise face, including:
 
• our partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions made on behalf of the ventures;
 
• if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions, then we may choose to contribute such capital;
 
• our partners might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals
that would af fect our ability to operate the property;
 
• the venture or other governing agreements often restrict the transfer of an interest in the co-investment venture or may
otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms;
 
• our relationships with our partners are generally contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the
agreements, and in such event, we may not continue to manage or invest in the assets underlying such relationships resulting in
reduced fee revenues or obtaining direct ownership of the properties through acquisition; and
 
• disputes between us and our partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our
officers and directors from focusing their time and ef fort on our business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the
applicable co-investment venture to additional risk.
14
 
 
We generally seek to maintain suf ficient influence over our co-investment ventures to permit us to achieve our business objectives;
however , we may not be able to continue to do so indefinitely . We have formed publicly traded investment vehicles, such as NPR and
FIBRA  Prologis, for which we serve as sponsor or manager . We have contributed, and may continue to contribute, assets into such
vehicles. There is a risk that our managerial relationship may be terminated. 
 
We are exposed to various environmental risks, which may result in unanticipated losses that could af fect our business and
financial condition.
 
Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner , developer or operator of real
estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances. The costs of removal or
remediation of such substances could be substantial. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator
knew of, or was responsible for , the release or presence of such hazardous substances. In addition, third parties may sue the owner
or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury , property damage or other costs, including investigation and clean-up
costs, resulting from the environmental contamination.
 
Environmental laws in some countries, including the U.S., also require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos
properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and
undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building
renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these
requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to
asbestos. Some of our properties are known to contain asbestos-containing building materials.
 
In addition, some of our properties are leased or have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use, store or
otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of such hazardous or
toxic substances. Furthermore, certain of our properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently
contain petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage
in activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances. From time to time, we may acquire properties, or interests in
properties, with known adverse environmental conditions for which we believe that the environmental liabilities associated with these
conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk-adjusted return. In connection with certain divested
properties, we have agreed to remain responsible for , and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental
conditions on the properties.
 
We are exposed to the potential impacts of future climate change, which may result in unanticipated losses that could af fect
our business and financial condition.
 
We are also exposed to potential physical risks from possible future changes in climate. Our logistics facilities may be exposed to rare
catastrophic weather events, such as severe storms, fires or floods. If the frequency of extreme weather events increases, our
exposure to these events could increase. W e do not currently consider ourselves to be exposed to regulatory risks related to climate
change, as the operation of our buildings typically does not generate a significant amount of greenhouse gas emissions. However , we
may be adversely impacted as a real estate developer in the future by potential impacts to the supply chain or stricter energy
efficiency standards or greenhouse gas regulations for the commercial building sectors. W e cannot give any assurance that other
such conditions do not exist or may not arise in the future. The potential impacts of future climate change on our real estate properties
could adversely af fect our ability to lease, develop or sell such properties or to borrow using such properties as collateral.
 
Our insurance coverage does not include all potential losses.
 
We and our unconsolidated co-investment ventures carry insurance coverage including property damage and rental loss insurance
resulting from certain perils such as fire and additional perils as covered under an extended coverage policy , namely windstorm, flood,
earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance, as appropriate for the markets where
each of our properties and business operations are located. The insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits
customarily carried for similar properties, business activities and markets. W e believe our properties and the properties of our co-
investment ventures are adequately insured. Certain losses, however , including losses from floods, earthquakes, acts of war , acts of
terrorism or riots, generally are not insured against or not fully insured against because it is not deemed economically feasible or
prudent to do so. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs with respect to one or more of our properties, we
could experience a significant loss of capital invested and future revenues in these properties and could potentially remain obligated
under any recourse debt associated with the property .
 
Furthermore, we cannot be sure that the insurance companies will be able to continue to of fer products with suf ficient coverage at
commercially reasonable rates. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds insured limits with respect to one or more of
our properties or if the insurance companies fail to meet their coverage commitments to us in the event of an insured loss, then we
could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenues from those properties and, if
there is recourse debt, then we would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the properties.
Any such losses or higher insurance costs could adversely af fect our business.  
 
15
 
Risks Related to Financing and Capital
 
We may be unable to refinance our debt or our cash flow may be insuf ficient to make required debt payments.
 
We are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insuf ficient to meet
required payments of principal and interest. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any maturing indebtedness,
that such refinancing would be on terms as favorable as the terms of the maturing indebtedness, or that we will be able to otherwise
obtain funds by selling assets or raising equity to make required payments on maturing indebtedness. If we are unable to refinance
our indebtedness at maturity or meet our payment obligations, our business and financial condition will be negatively impacted and, if
the maturing debt is secured, the lender may foreclose on the property securing such indebtedness. Our credit facilities and certain
other debt bears interest at variable rates. Increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense under these agreements.
 
Covenants in our credit agreements could limit our flexibility and breaches of these covenants could adversely af fect our
financial condition.
 
The terms of our various credit agreements, including our credit facilities, the indentures under which our senior notes and term loans
are issued and other note agreements, require us to comply with a number of customary financial covenants, such as maintaining
debt service coverage ratio, leverage ratios, fixed charge coverage ratios and other operating covenants including maintaining
insurance coverage. These covenants may limit our flexibility to run our business, and breaches of these covenants could result in
defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness. If we default under the covenant provisions and are unable to
cure the default, refinance the indebtedness or meet payment obligations, our business and financial condition generally and, in
particular , the amount of our distributable cash flow could be adversely af fected.  
 
Adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively af fect our financing activity .
 
At December 31, 2019, our credit ratings were A3 from Moody’ s and A- from S&P , both with stable outlook. A securities rating is not a
recommendation to buy , sell or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization.
 
The credit ratings of our senior notes and preferred stock are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios,
overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. Our credit ratings can
affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms and pricing of any debt we may incur . There can be no assurance
that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event our credit ratings are downgraded, we would likely incur
higher borrowing costs and may encounter dif ficulty in obtaining additional financing. Also, a downgrade in our credit ratings may
trigger additional payments or other negative consequences under our credit facilities and other debt instruments. Adverse changes in
our credit ratings could negatively impact our business and, in particular , our refinancing and other capital market activities, our ability
to manage debt maturities, our future growth and our development and acquisition activity .
 
The Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”), the authority that regulates the London Inter-bank Of fered Rate (“LIBOR”),
announced that it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021 which will require
transition to an alternative reference rate that could have a negative impact on our required debt payments and the value of
our related debt and derivative financial instruments.
 
In July 2017, the FCA  announced it intended to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. As a
result, in the U.S., the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York identified the Secured Overnight Financing
Rate as its preferred alternative rate for USD LIBOR in debt and derivative financial instruments. Additionally , other global regulators
have undertaken reference rate reform initiatives to identify a preferred alternative rate for other interbank of fered rates (“IBORs”).  
 
We have variable-rate debt of $2.0 billion at December 31, 2019 that are indexed to LIBOR, CDOR and Yen LIBOR (herein referred to
as “IBOR-indexed”). Our loan documents contain provisions that contemplate alternative methods to determine the base rate
applicable to our IBOR-indexed debt to the extent IBOR-indexed rates are not available. Additionally , no mandatory prepayment or
redemption provisions would be triggered under our loan documents in the event that the IBOR-indexed rates are not available. If a
contract is not transitioned to a preferred alternative rate and IBOR-indexed rates are discontinued, the impact on our debt and
derivative financial instruments is likely to vary by contract. If IBOR-indexed rates are discontinued or if the methods of calculating the
rates change, interest rates on our current or future indebtedness may be adversely af fected. While we currently expect IBOR-indexed
rates to be available until the end of 2021, it is possible that they will become unavailable prior to that time.
 
We anticipate managing the transition to a preferred alternative rate using the language set out in our agreements and through
potentially modifying our debt and derivative instruments, however future market conditions may not allow immediate implementation
of desired modifications and we may incur significant associated costs in doing so. W e will continue to monitor and evaluate the
potential impact on our debt payments and value of our related debt and derivative financial instruments, however , we are not able to
predict when IBOR-indexed rates will cease to be available.
 
In order to meet REIT distribution requirements we may need access to external sources of capital.
 
To qualify as a REIT , we are required each year to distribute at least 90% of our REIT  taxable income (determined without regard to
the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain) to our stockholders and we may be subject to tax to the extent our
taxable income is not fully distributed. Historically , we have satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to
our
16
 
stockholders , however , we may elect to pay a portion of the distribution in shares of our stock . Assuming we continue to satisfy these
distribution requirements with cash, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisition and development
activities, from cash retained from operations and may have to rely on third-party sources of capital. Furthermore, to maintain our
REIT  status and not have to pay federal income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the
REIT  distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These short-term
borrowing needs could result from dif ferences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income
tax purposes, or the ef fect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments.
Our ability to access debt and equity capital on favorable terms or at all depends on a number of factors, including general market
conditions, the market’ s perception of our growth potential, our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the
market price of our securities.
 
Our stockholders may experience dilution if we issue additional common stock or units in the OP .
 
Any additional future issuance of common stock or OP  units will reduce the percentage of our common stock and units owned by
investors. In most circumstances, stockholders and unitholders will not be entitled to vote on whether or not we issue additional
common stock or units. In addition, depending on the terms and pricing of any additional of fering of our common stock or units and the
value of the properties, our stockholders and unitholders may experience dilution in both book value and fair value of their common
stock or units.
 
Income Tax Risks
 
The failure of Prologis, Inc. to qualify as a REIT would have serious adverse consequences.
 
Prologis, Inc. elected to be taxed as a REIT  under Sections 856 through 860 of the IRC commencing with the taxable year ended
December 31, 1997. W e believe Prologis, Inc. has been organized and operated to qualify as a REIT  under the IRC and believe that
the current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the IRC to enable Prologis,
Inc. to continue to qualify as a REIT . However , it is possible that we are organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow
Prologis, Inc. to qualify as a REIT , or that our future operations could cause Prologis, Inc. to fail to qualify . Qualification as a REIT
requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some annually and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and
complex sections of the IRC for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination
of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. For example, to qualify as a REIT , Prologis, Inc. must
derive at least 95% of its gross income in any year from qualifying sources. In addition, Prologis, Inc. must pay dividends to its
stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and
by excluding capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. Historically , we have satisfied these distribution
requirements by making cash distributions to our stockholders, but we may choose to satisfy these requirements by making
distributions of cash or other property , including, in limited circumstances, our own stock. The provisions of the IRC and applicable
Treasury regulations regarding qualification as a REIT  are more complicated for Prologis, Inc. because we hold substantially all of our
assets through the OP .
 
If Prologis, Inc. fails to qualify as a REIT  in any taxable year , we will be required to pay federal income tax (including, for taxable years
prior to 2018, any applicable alternative minimum tax) on taxable income at regular corporate rates. Unless we are entitled to relief
under certain statutory provisions, Prologis, Inc. would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT  for the four taxable years following the
year in which it lost the qualification and would be subject to corporate tax on built-in gains that exist at the time of REIT  re-election if
recognized within the five-year period after re-election, and potentially 10 years for certain states. If Prologis, Inc. lost its REIT  status,
our net earnings would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. In addition, we may need to borrow additional funds or
liquidate some investments to pay any additional tax liability . Accordingly , funds available for investment, operations and distributions
would be reduced.
 
Furthermore, we own a direct or indirect interest in certain subsidiary REIT s that elected to be taxed as REIT s under Sections 856
through 860 of the IRC. Provided that each subsidiary REIT  qualifies as a REIT , our interest in such subsidiary REIT  will be treated as
a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the REIT  asset tests, and any dividend income or gains derived by us from such
subsidiary REIT  will generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the REIT  95% and 75% gross income tests. To
qualify as a REIT , the subsidiary REIT  must independently satisfy all of the REIT  qualification requirements. If such subsidiary REIT
were to fail to qualify as a REIT , and certain relief provisions did not apply , it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and its
income would be subject to U.S. federal income tax. In addition, a failure of the subsidiary REIT  to qualify as a REIT  would have an
adverse ef fect on the ability of Prologis, Inc. to comply with the REIT  income and asset tests, and thus its ability to qualify as a REIT .
 
In addition, we may acquire properties through the acquisition of REIT  entities that own the real estate. If a gain in such assets is not
otherwise recognized by the seller or target in such acquisitions, and such entities were to fail to satisfy the REIT  requirements for any
year, they would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT  for the four taxable years following the year in which the REIT  qualification
was lost and the acquired assets would be subject to corporate tax on built-in gains that exist at the time of REIT  re-election or , if
earlier , at the time of Prologis’  acquisition of the assets. A sale of such assets within the 5-year recognition period, and potentially 10
years for certain states, could result in corporate tax liabilities that could be significant.  
 
17
 
Certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the
transaction.
 
From time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties, including by contributing properties to our co-
investment ventures. Under the IRC, any gain resulting from transfers of properties we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to
customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. W e do
not believe that our transfers or disposals of property or our contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited
transactions. However , whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and
circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) may contend that certain transfers or
dispositions of properties by us or contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. While we
believe that the IRS would not prevail in any such dispute, if the IRS were to argue successfully that a transfer , disposition or
contribution of property constituted a prohibited transaction, we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to
us from the prohibited transaction. In addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely af fect our ability to satisfy the
income tests for qualification as a REIT .
 
Legislative or regulatory action could adversely af fect us.
 
In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the U.S., state, local and foreign income
tax laws applicable to investments in real estate, REIT s, similar entities and investments. Additional changes are likely to continue to
occur in the future, both in and outside of the U.S. and may impact our taxation or that of our stockholders.  Any increases in tax
liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for other purposes.
 
Complying with REIT requirements may limit our flexibility or cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities.
 
Our use of taxable REIT  subsidiaries (“TRSs”) enables us to engage in non-REIT  qualifying business activities. Under the IRC, no
more than 20% of the value of the assets of a REIT  may be represented by securities of one or more TRSs and other non-qualifying
assets. This limitation may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments, including the purchase of non-qualifying assets,
the expansion of non-real estate activities and investments in the businesses to be conducted by our TRSs, and to that extent limit our
opportunities.
 
ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staf f Comments
 
None.
 
ITEM 2. Properties
 
GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION
 
We predominately invest in logistics facilities. Our properties are typically used for distribution, storage, packaging, assembly and light
manufacturing of consumer products. The vast majority of our operating properties are used by our customers for retail and online
fulfillment and business-to-business transactions.
 
The following tables provide details of our consolidated operating properties, investment in land and development portfolio and our
O&M portfolio. The O&M portfolio includes the properties we consolidate and the properties owned by our unconsolidated co-
investment ventures reflected at 100% of the amount included in the ventures’  financial statements as calculated on a GAAP  basis,
not our proportionate share.
18
 
 
Included in the operating property information below for our consolidated operating properties are 382 buildings owned primarily by
one co-investment venture that we consolidate but of which we own less than 100% of the equity . No individual property or market
amounted to 10% or more of our consolidated total assets at December 31, 2019, or generated revenue equal to 10% or more of our
consolidated total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019, with the exception of the Southern California market. Dollars and
square feet in the following tables are in millions:
 
  Consolidated Operating Properties   O&M  
Geographies  Rentable Square
Footage   Gross Book
Value   Encumbrances (1)  Rentable Square
Footage   Gross Book
Value  
U.S.:                     
Atlanta   22  $ 1,319  $ 14   25  $ 1,488 
Baltimore/Washington D.C.   6   674   13   10   1,044 
Central and Eastern Pennsylvania   18   1,282   -   20   1,501 
Central Valley   15   1,046   10   16   1,159 
Chicago   37   2,848   9   47   3,648 
Dallas/Fort Worth   25   1,574   8   32   2,091 
Houston   12   1,025   10   19   1,528 
New Jersey/New York City   27   2,827   45   35   3,853 
San Francisco Bay Area   19   2,600   25   23   3,070 
Seattle   13   1,793  *   20   2,457 
South Florida   11   1,315   29   16   1,856 
Southern California   68   7,318   18   86   9,338 
Remaining Markets – U.S. (16 markets) (2)  64   3,970   42   85   5,360 
Subtotal U.S.   337   29,591   223   434   38,393 
Other Americas:                     
Brazil   -   -   -   10   627 
Canada   10   866   150   10   866 
Mexico   4   258   -   39   2,356 
Subtotal Other Americas   14   1,124   150   59   3,849 
Europe:                     
France   1   67   -   31   2,486 
Germany   1   78   -   24   2,021 
Netherlands   -   -   -   22   1,990 
U.K.  *   69   -   25   3,733 
Remaining Countries – Europe (8 countries)
(3)   3   141   -   78   5,566 
Subtotal Europe   5   355   -   180   15,796 
Asia:                     
China  *   10   -   27   1,993 
Japan   2   275   157   34   6,255 
Singapore   1   141   -   1   141 
Subtotal Asia   3   426   157   62   8,389 
Total operating portfolio (4)   359   31,496   530   735   66,427 
Value-added properties (5)   3   397   -   5   565 
Total operating properties   362  $ 31,893  $ 530   740  $ 66,992 
                     
Items notated by ‘*’ indicate an amount less than one million that rounds to zero.  
19
 
 
  Consolidated – Investment in Land   Consolidated – Development Portfolio 
Geographies  Acres  Estimated Build
Out Potential
(square feet) (6)  Current
Investment  Rentable Square
Footage Upon
Completion   TEI (7)  
U.S.:                     
Atlanta   203   2  $ 23  *  $ 15 
Baltimore/Washington D.C.   -   -   -  *   10 
Central and Eastern Pennsylvania   29  *   8   -   - 
Central Valley   948   19   145   2   148 
Chicago   100   2   13   1   72 
Dallas/Fort Worth   8   1   2   1   91 
Houston   177   3   33  *   13 
New Jersey/New York City   20  *   11   1   105 
San Francisco Bay Area   13  *  *   1   200 
Seattle   9  *   14   1   71 
South Florida   70   1   61  *   48 
Southern California   79   1   74   2   232 
Remaining Markets – U.S. (16 markets)   385   7   100   8   744 
Subtotal U.S.   2,041   36   484   17   1,749 
Other Americas:                     
Brazil   196   4   20   -   - 
Canada   167   3   88   1   49 
Mexico   449   8   83   1   87 
Subtotal Other Americas   812   15   191   2   136 
Europe:                     
France   230   4   28   1   86 
Germany   36   1   20   1   114 
Netherlands   10  *   9   2   157 
U.K.   138   2   86   2   354 
Remaining Countries – Europe (8
countries)   1,066   22   181   5   355 
Subtotal Europe   1,480   29   324   11   1,066 
Asia:                     
Japan   78   4   103   6   1,019 
Subtotal Asia   78   4   103   6   1,019 
Total land and development portfolio   4,411   84  $ 1,102   36  $ 3,970 
                     
Items notated by ‘*’ indicate an amount less than one million that rounds to zero.  
 
(1) Certain of our consolidated properties are pledged as security under secured mortgage debt and assessment bonds. For
purposes of this table, the total principal balance of a debt issuance that is secured by a pool of properties is allocated among
the properties in the pool based on each property’ s investment balance. In addition to the amounts reflected here, we also have
$38 million of encumbrances related to one prestabilized property and one property under development not included in
consolidated operating properties.
 
(2) No remaining market within the U.S. represented more than 2% of the total gross book value of the consolidated operating
properties.
 
(3) No remaining country within Europe represented more than 2% of the total gross book value of the O&M operating properties.
 
(4)Included in our consolidated operating properties are properties that we consider to be held for contribution and are presented
within Assets Held for Sale or Contribution  in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. W e include these properties in our operating
portfolio as they are expected to be contributed to our co-investment ventures and remain in our O&M operating portfolio. At
December 31, 2019, we had investments in real estate properties that were expected to be contributed to our unconsolidated
co-investment ventures totaling $605 million and aggregating 8 million square feet. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further information on our Assets Held for Sale or
Contribution.
 
(5)Value-added properties are properties we have either acquired at a discount and believe we could provide greater returns post-
stabilization or properties we expect to repurpose to a higher and better use.
 
(6)Represents the estimated finished square feet available for lease upon completion of a building on existing parcels of land.
 
(7)TEI is based on current projections and is subject to change. As noted in the table below , our current investment was $1.9
billion, leaving approximately $2.1 billion of additional required investment. At December 31, 2019, based on TEI, approximately
23% of the properties in the development portfolio were already completed but not yet stabilized and approximately 64% of the
properties under development in the development portfolio were expected to be completed by December 31, 2020. The
remainder of our properties under development were expected to be completed before December 2021.
20
 
 
The following table summarizes our investment in consolidated real estate properties at December 31, 2019 (in millions):
 
  Investment Before
Depreciation  
Operating properties, excluding assets held for sale or contribution  $ 31,288  
Development portfolio, including cost of land   1,868  
Land   1,102  
Other real estate investments (1)   966 
Total consolidated real estate properties  $ 35,224
 
 
(1) Included in other real estate investments were: (i) non-logistics real estate; (ii) land parcels that are ground leased to third
parties; (iii) our corporate headquarters; (iv) costs related to future development projects, including purchase options on land; (v)
earnest money deposits associated with potential acquisitions; and (vi) infrastructure costs related to projects we are developing
on behalf of others.
 
LEASE EXPIRATIONS
 
We generally lease our properties on a long-term basis (the average term for leases commenced in 2019 was 66 months). The
following table summarizes the lease expirations of our consolidated operating portfolio for leases in place at December 31, 2019
(dollars and square feet in millions):
                     
          NER  
  Number of
Leases   Occupied
Square Feet   Dollars   % of T otal  Dollars Per
Square Foot (1) 
2020   635   36  $ 210   10.0% $ 5.83 
2021   800   54   299   14.2%  5.54 
2022   749   56   321   15.3%  5.73 
2023   618   46   276   13.1%  6.00 
2024   609   47   298   14.2%  6.34 
2025   219   24   154   7.3%  6.42 
2026   120   19   118   5.6%  6.21 
2027   95   13   80   3.8%  6.15 
2028   70   12   82   3.9%  6.83 
2029   89   17   119   5.7%  7.00 
Thereafter   62   19   144   6.9%  7.58 
   4,066    343  $ 2,101    100.0 % $ 6.13 
Month to month   69   3             
Total consolidated   4,135    346            
 
 
(1) Dollars per square foot was calculated by dividing NER by the occupied square feet of the lease.
 
21
 
CO-INVESTMENT VENTURES
 
Included in our O&M portfolio are consolidated and unconsolidated co-investment ventures that hold investments in real estate
properties, primarily logistics facilities that we also manage. Our unconsolidated co-investment ventures are accounted for under the
equity method. The amounts included for the unconsolidated ventures are reflected at 100% of the amount included in the ventures’
financial statements as calculated on a GAAP  basis, not our proportionate share. The following table summarizes our consolidated
and unconsolidated co-investment ventures at December 31, 2019 (in millions):  
 
  Operating Properties          
  Square Feet   Gross
Book V alue   Investment
in Land   Development
Portfolio – TEI  
Consolidated Co-Investment V enture                 
U.S.:                 
Prologis U.S. Logistics V enture (“USL V”)   65  $ 6,142   $ 12  $ 76 
Total   65  $ 6,142   $ 12  $ 76 
                 
Unconsolidated Co-Investment V entures                 
U.S.:                 
Prologis Targeted U.S. Logistics Fund (“USLF”)   99  $ 8,920   $ -  $ - 
Other Americas:                 
FIBRA  Prologis   35   2,102    6   6 
Prologis Brazil Logistics V enture ("PBL V") and other
joint
      ventures   10   627   116   64 
Subtotal Other Americas   45   2,729    122   70 
Europe:                 
Prologis European Logistics Fund (“PELF”)   120   10,838    6   44 
Prologis European Logistics Partners Sàrl (“PELP”)   52   3,972    23   33 
Prologis UK Logistics V enture (“UKL V”)   4   677   102   122 
Subtotal Europe   176   15,487    131   199 
Asia:                 
Nippon Prologis REIT  (“NPR”)   32   5,980    -   - 
Prologis China Core Logistics Fund (“PCCLF”) (1)   21   1,741    -   8 
Prologis China Logistics V enture (1)   5   242   30   1,223  
Subtotal Asia   58   7,963    30   1,231  
Total   378  $ 35,099   $ 283  $ 1,500  
                
 
(1) In December 2019, we formed PCCLF , an unconsolidated co-investment venture investing in properties in China, with eight
partners. At that time, we and our existing partner in Prologis China Logistics V enture I, LP  received equity interests in PCCLF
for the contribution of the existing portfolio of assets consisting of 79 properties totaling 22 million square feet. The seven new
partners contributed cash, which was used to redeem a portion of our existing partner ’s investment in PCCLF . We maintained
our ownership percentage in these assets subsequent to the contribution and therefore did not recognize a gain.
 
For more information regarding our unconsolidated and consolidated co-investment ventures, see Notes 5 and 11 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
 
ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings
 
From time to time, we and our co-investment ventures are parties to a variety of legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of
business.
 
In connection with the Liberty Transaction, six lawsuits have been filed seeking damages and/or rescission, among other things. An
adverse decision being entered for any lawsuit may adversely af fect our financial results. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further information on the Liberty Transaction.
 
We do not believe that the ultimate disposition of any additional matters to which we are currently a party will result in a material
adverse ef fect on our business, financial position or results of operations.
 
ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
 
Not Applicable.
 
22
 
PART II
 
ITEM 5. Market for Registrant’ s Common Equity , Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases
of Equity Securities
 
MARKET INFORMATION AND HOLDERS
 
Our common stock is listed on the NYSE under the symbol “PLD.”
 
Stock Performance Graph
 
The following line graph compares the change in Prologis, Inc. cumulative total stockholder ’s return on shares of its common stock
from December 31, 2014, to the cumulative total return of the S&P  500 Stock Index and the Financial Times and Stock Exchange
NAREIT  Equity REIT s Index from December 31, 2014, to December 31, 2019. The graph assumes an initial investment of $100 in our
common stock and each of the indices on December 31, 2014, and, as required by the SEC, the reinvestment of all dividends. The
return shown on the graph is not necessarily indicative of future performance.
 
 
This graph and the accompanying text are not “soliciting material,” are not deemed filed with the SEC and are not to be incorporated
by reference in any filing by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any such filing.
 
PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDENDS
 
At December 31, 2019 and 2018, we had 1.4 million shares of the Series Q preferred stock with a liquidation preference of $50 per
share that will be redeemable at our option on or after November 13, 2026. Dividends payable per share was $4.27 for the years
ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.
  
For more information regarding dividends, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.
 
SALES OF UNREGISTERED SECURITIES
 
During 2019, we issued 1.2 million shares of common stock of Prologis, Inc. in connection with the redemption of common units of
Prologis, L.P . The shares of common stock were issued in reliance on the exemption from registration requirements of the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended, af forded by Section 4(a)(2) thereof.
23
 
 
SECURITIES AUTHORIZED FOR ISSUANCE UNDER EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS
 
For information regarding securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans, see Notes 9 and 12 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
 
OTHER STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
Common Stock Plans
 
Further information relative to our equity compensation plans will be provided in our 2020 Proxy Statement or in an amendment filed
on Form 10-K/A.
 
ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data
 
The following table summarizes selected financial data related to our historical financial condition and results of operations for both
Prologis, Inc. and Prologis, L.P . (in millions, except for per share and unit amounts):
 
 2019   2018   2017   2016   2015  
Operating Data:                    
Total revenues $3,331   $2,804   $2,618   $2,533   $2,197  
Gains on dispositions of development properties and land, net $ 468  $ 470  $ 328  $ 334  $ 258 
Gains on other dispositions of investments in real estate, net $ 390  $ 371  $ 855  $ 423  $ 501 
Consolidated net earnings $1,702   $1,823   $1,761   $1,293   $ 926 
Net earnings per share/unit attributable to common stockholders/
     unitholders – Basic $2.48  $2.90  $3.10  $2.29  $1.66 
Net earnings per share/unit attributable to common stockholders/
     unitholders – Diluted $2.46  $2.87  $3.06  $2.27  $1.64 
Dividends per common share and distributions per common unit $2.12  $1.92  $1.76  $1.68  $1.52 
Consolidated Balance Sheet Data:                    
Total assets $40,032   $38,418   $29,481   $30,250   $31,395  
Total debt $11,906   $11,090   $9,413   $10,608   $11,627  
FFO attributable to common stockholders/unitholders (1):                    
Reconciliation of net earnings to FFO:                    
Net earnings attributable to common stockholders $1,567   $1,643   $1,642   $1,203   $ 863 
Total NAREIT  defined adjustments  950   707   101   534   461 
Total our modified adjustments  74   (118 )  52   (35)  (15)
FFO, as modified by Prologis attributable to common stockholders/
     unitholders (1) $2,591   $2,232   $1,795   $1,702   $1,309  
Total core defined adjustments  (427 )  (444 )  (244 )  (302 )  (128 )
Core FFO attributable to common stockholders/unitholders (1) $2,164   $1,788   $1,551   $1,400   $1,181
 
 
(1)FFO; FFO, as modified by Prologis; and Core FFO attributable to common stockholders/unitholders are non-GAAP  measures.
See Item 7. Management’ s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for our definition of FFO
measures and a complete reconciliation to net earnings.
 
ITEM 7. Management’ s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data of this report and the matters described under Item 1A. Risk Factors.
 
A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for 2019 compared to 2018 is presented below . Information on
2017 is included in graphs only to show year over year trends in our results of operations. Our financial condition for 2017 and results
of operations for 2017 and 2018 compared to 2017 can be found under Item 7. Management’ s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations which is incorporated by reference herein to our Annual Report on Form 10-K  for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 13, 2019, and is available on the SEC’ s website at www .sec.gov and our
Investor Relations website at www .ir.prologis.com.
 
24
 
MANAGEMENT’S OVERVIEW
 
Summary of 2019
 
During the year ended December 31, 2019, operating fundamentals remained strong for our O&M portfolio. Our occupancy decreased
to 96.5% at December 31, 2019 as compared to 97.5% at December 31, 2018 due to our focus on rental rate growth as evidenced by
our weighted average net ef fective rent change of 23.7% in our O&M portfolio during 2019.
 
In 2019, we completed the following significant activities as described in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements:
 
• In January , we formed PBL V, a Brazilian unconsolidated co-investment venture, with one partner . We contributed an initial
portfolio of real estate properties to PBL V consisting of 14 operating properties totaling 7 million square feet and 371 acres of
land. W e received total proceeds of $620 million, including cash and units, which represents a 20% equity interest.
 
• Excluding the contribution to PBL V, we generated net proceeds of $2.4 billion and realized net gains of $719 million, primarily
from the contribution of properties to our unconsolidated co-investment ventures in Europe, Japan and the U.S.
 
• In February , we redeemed a portion of our investment in a European unconsolidated co-investment venture for proceeds of
€278 million ($313 million).
 
• In December , we formed PCCLF , an unconsolidated co-investment venture investing in properties in China, with eight partners.
At that time, we and our existing partner in Prologis China Logistics V enture I, LP  received equity interests in PCCLF for the
contribution of the existing portfolio of assets consisting of 79 properties totaling 22 million square feet. The seven new partners
contributed cash, which was used to redeem a portion of our existing partner ’s investment in PCCLF . We maintained our
ownership percentage in these assets subsequent to the contribution and therefore did not recognize a gain.
 
• We earned promotes aggregating $181 million ($121 million net of related expenses), of which $166 million was recorded in
Strategic Capital Revenues , primarily from PELF , and $15 million was recorded in Net Earnings Attributable to Noncontrolling
Interests.
 
• We completed the following financing activities that resulted in extending our debt maturities to 7.8 years and lowering our
effective interest rate to 2.2%, both on a weighted average basis at December 31, 2019.
 
 •In January , we upsized our global senior credit facility to $3.5 billion, maturing in January 2023.
 
 •In January , we also entered into two unsecured Japanese yen term loans for a total of ¥15.0 billion ($137 million) that
bear interest of Yen LIBOR plus 0.5% to 0.6% and mature in January 2028 and 2030.
 
 •In March, we entered into an unsecured Japanese yen term loan agreement (the “March 2019 Yen Term Loan”) under
which we can draw Japanese yen in an aggregate amount not to exceed ¥85.0 billion ($783 million at December 31,
2019). The March 2019 Yen Term Loan bears interest at Yen LIBOR plus 0.4% and matures in March 2026. W e used
the proceeds to repay the majority of the outstanding balance of ¥100.0 billion ($897 million) on our 2016 Japanese
yen term loan.
 
 •In March, we also completed a private placement for ¥10.0 billion ($91 million) of senior notes with a stated interest
rate of 1.2%, maturing in March 2039.
 
 •In September , we issued three series of senior notes for a total of €1.8 billion ($2.0 billion), bearing a weighted-average
fixed interest rate of 0.7% and maturing in September 2027 through 2049. We utilized the proceeds to pay of f senior
notes of €600 million ($656 million) bearing an interest rate of 1.4% and maturing in October 2020 and $499 million on
our multi-currency term loan.
 
 •At December 31, 2019, we had $3.7 billion of available borrowing capacity under our credit facilities and total liquidity
of $4.8 billion, including unrestricted cash balances.
 
Subsequent to year end, we closed the following transactions in 2020:
 
• On January 3 rd, we redeemed €400 million ($446 million) of senior notes bearing a floating rate of Euribor  plus 0.3%.
 
• On January 8 th, our two U.S. co-investment ventures acquired the wholly-owned real estate assets of IPT  for approximately $4
billion (our investment was approximately $1.6 billion). See Notes 5 and 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more
information on this transaction.
 
• On February 4 th, we completed the Liberty Transaction for approximately $13 billion through the issuance of equity and the
assumption of debt. See Note 20 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on this transaction.
 
25
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
We evaluate our business operations based on the NOI of our two operating segments: Real Estate Operations and Strategic Capital.
NOI by segment is a non-GAAP  performance measure that is calculated using revenues and expenses directly from our financial
statements. W e consider NOI by segment to be an appropriate supplemental measure of our performance because it helps
management and investors understand our operating results.
 
Below is a reconciliation of our NOI by segment to Operating Income  per the Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions). Each
segment’ s NOI is reconciled to a line item in the Consolidated Financial Statements in their respective segment discussions below .
 
  2019   2018  
Real Estate Operations – NOI  $ 2,091   $ 1,784  
Strategic Capital – NOI   307   249 
General and administrative expenses   (266 )  (239 )
Depreciation and amortization expenses   (1,140 )  (947 )
Operating income before gains on real estate transactions, net   992   847 
Gains on dispositions of development properties and land, net   468   470 
Gains on other dispositions of investments in real estate, net   390   371 
Operating income  $ 1,850   $ 1,688  
        
 
See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our segments and a reconciliation of each business
segment’ s NOI to Operating Income  and Earnings Before Income T axes.
 
Real Estate Operations
 
This operating segment principally includes rental revenue and rental expenses recognized from our consolidated properties. W e
allocate the costs of our property management and leasing functions to the Real Estate Operations segment through Rental Expenses
and the Strategic Capital segment through Strategic Capital Expenses  based on the square footage of the relative portfolios. The
operating fundamentals in the markets in which we operate continue to be strong, which has increased rents and kept occupancies
high. In addition, this segment is impacted by our development, acquisition and disposition activities.
 
Below are the components of Real Estate Operations revenues, expenses and NOI (in millions), derived directly from the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
  2019   2018  
Rental revenues (1)  $ 2,832   $ 2,389  
Development management and other revenues   6   9 
Rental expenses   (734 )  (601 )
Other expenses   (13)  (13)
Real Estate Operations – NOI  $ 2,091   $ 1,784
 
 
(1) As disclosed in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under the new lease standard, we adopted the practical
expedient to  present rental revenue and rental recoveries as a single component under Rental Revenues  in our Consolidated
Statements of Income.
 
The change in Real Estate Operations NOI in 2019 compared to 2018 was impacted by the following items (dollars in millions):
 
 
(1) Acquisition activity increased NOI in 2019, compared to 2018, primarily due to the acquisition of DCT  Industrial Trust Inc. and
DCT Industrial Operating Partnership LP  (collectively “DCT”), which was completed for $8.5 billion on August 22, 2018 (“DCT
Transaction”).
26
 
 
(2) During both years, we experienced positive rental rate growth. Rental rate growth (or rent change) is a combination of the
rollover of existing leases to higher rental rates and contractual rent increases on existing leases. If a lease has a contractual
rent increase driven by a metric that is not known at the time the lease commences, such as the consumer price index or a
similar metric, the rent increase is not included in rent leveling and therefore, impacts the rental revenue we recognize. W e
experienced an increase in NER change from 29.4% in 2018 to 32.8% in 2019, that was marginally reduced by a decrease in
average occupancy of 0.6% during the same period. See below for key metrics on rent change on rollover and occupancy for
the consolidated operating portfolio.
 
(3) We calculate changes in NOI from development completions period over period by comparing the change in NOI generated on
the pool of developments that completed on or after January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2019 year over year .
 
(4) Other activity decreased NOI in 2019, compared to 2018, primarily due to internal costs of $25 million related to leasing
activities, partially reduced by lower non-recoverable expenses, both in 2019, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Beginning in 2019 with the adoption of the new lease accounting standard, we no longer capitalize internal costs related to our
leasing activities.
 
Below are key operating metrics of our consolidated operating portfolio.
 
 
(1) In August 2018, we completed the DCT  Transaction and acquired a portfolio of logistics real estate assets aggregating 68 million
square feet.
 
(2) Consolidated square feet of leases commenced and weighted average net ef fective rent change were calculated for leases with
initial terms of one year or greater .
 
Development Activity
 
The following table summarizes consolidated development activity (dollars and square feet in millions):
 
  2019   2018  
Starts:         
Number of new development projects during the period   74   67 
Square feet   25   26 
TEI  $ 2,741   $ 2,408  
Percentage of build-to-suits based on TEI   44.0%  40.8%
         
Stabilizations:         
Number of development projects stabilized during the period   72   60 
Square feet   26   21 
TEI  $ 2,422   $ 1,824  
Weighted average stabilized yield (1)   6.3%  6.5%
Estimated value at completion  $ 3,313   $ 2,459  
Estimated weighted average margin   36.8%  34.8%
 
(1) We calculate the weighted average stabilized yield as estimated NOI assuming stabilized occupancy divided by TEI.
 
At December 31, 2019, our consolidated development portfolio, including properties under development and prestabilized properties
with a TEI of $4.0 billion, was 50.0% leased and expected to be completed before December 2021. For additional information on our
development portfolio at December 31, 2019, see Item 2. Properties.
 
27
 
Capital Expenditures
 
We capitalize costs incurred in renovating and improving our operating properties as part of the investment basis or within other
assets. The following graph summarizes our total capital expenditures, excluding development costs, and property improvements per
average square foot of our consolidated operating properties during each year:
 
 
(1) In 2019, total capital expenditures increased primarily due to a larger portfolio and leasing our operating properties at higher
rental rates and longer lease terms.
 
Strategic Capital
 
This operating segment includes revenues from asset and property management, other fees for services performed and promote
revenue earned from the unconsolidated entities. Revenues associated with the Strategic Capital segment fluctuate because of
changes in the size of the portfolios through acquisitions and dispositions, the fair value of the properties and other transactional
activity including foreign currency exchange rates and timing of promotes. These revenues are reduced by the direct costs associated
with the asset and property-level management expenses for the properties owned by these ventures. W e allocate the costs of our
property management and leasing functions to the Strategic Capital segment through Strategic Capital Expenses and to the Real
Estate Operations segment through Rental Expenses based on the square footage of the relative portfolios.
 
Below are the components of Strategic Capital revenues, expenses and NOI, derived directly from the Consolidated Financial
Statements (in millions):  
 
  2019   2018  
Strategic capital revenues  $ 492  $ 406 
Strategic capital expenses   (185 )   (157 )
Strategic Capital – NOI  $ 307  $ 249 
         
Below is additional detail of our Strategic Capital revenues, expenses and NOI (in millions):
 
  U.S. (1) Other Americas Europe Asia Total
  2019  2018  2019  2018  2019  2018  2019  2018  2019  2018  
Strategic capital revenues ($)                                          
Recurring fees (2)   75   65   31   23   106   95   56   48   268   231  
Transactional fees (3)   11   9   5   3   17   23   25   22   58   57  
Promote revenue (4)   -   1   5   6   161   57   -   54   166   118  
Total strategic capital revenues ($)   86   75   41   32   284   175   81   124   492   406  
Strategic capital expenses ($)   (97)  (70)  (14)  (12)  (38)  (39)  (36)  (36)  (185)  (157) 
Strategic Capital - NOI ($)   (11)  5   27   20   246   136   45   88   307   249  
                                          
(1) The U.S. expenses include compensation, personnel costs and PPP  awards for employees who were based in the U.S. but also
support other geographies.
 
(2) Recurring fees include asset and property management fees.
 
(3) Transactional fees include leasing commission, acquisition, development and other fees.
 
(4) We generally earn promote revenue directly from third-party investors in the co-investment ventures and occasionally from the
venture. The promote is generally based on cumulative returns over a three-year period. Under either structure, when the
promote is earned we recognize the third-party investors’  share of the promote. Approximately 40% of the promote earned by us
is paid to our employees as a combination of cash and stock awards pursuant to the terms of the PPP  and expensed
through Strategic Capital Expenses, as vested.
28
 
 
The following real estate investments were held through our unconsolidated co-investment ventures based on historical cost at
December 31 (dollars and square feet in millions):
 
  U.S. Other Americas Europe Asia Total  
  2019  2018  2019 (1)  2018  2019  2018  2019 (2)  2018  2019  2018 
Ventures   1   1   2   2   3   3   3   2   9   8 
Operating properties   605   566   214   209   731   669   144   125   1,694   1,569 
Square feet   99   91   44   39   176   159   59   51   378   340 
Total assets ($)   8,408   7,303   2,707   2,137   14,677   13,028   8,758   7,089   34,550   29,557 
                                        
 
(1) PBLV and our other Brazilian joint ventures are combined as one venture for the purpose of this table.
 
(2) In December , we formed PCCLF , an unconsolidated co-investment venture investing in properties in China, with eight partners.
At that time, we and our existing partner in Prologis China Logistics V enture I, LP  contributed the existing portfolio of assets to
PCCLF .
 
See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our unconsolidated co-investment ventures.
 
G&A Expenses
 
G&A expenses were $266 million and $239 million for 2019 and 2018, respectively . G&A  expenses increased in 2019 as compared to
2018, due to higher compensation expenses based largely on the increase in our share price.
 
We capitalize certain internal costs, including salaries and related expenses, directly related to our development activities. W e
previously capitalized G&A  related to our internal leasing activities, however , beginning January 1, 2019 these costs were expensed
and recorded to Rental Expenses  in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
 
The following table summarizes capitalized G&A  amounts (in millions):  
 
  2019   2018  
Building and land development activities  $ 68  $ 63 
Leasing activities   -   21 
Operating building improvements and other   20   16 
Total capitalized G&A  expenses  $ 88  $ 100 
Capitalized salaries and related costs as a percent of total salaries and related costs   19.5%  24.5%
 
Depreciation and Amortization Expenses
 
Depreciation and amortization expenses were $1.1 billion and $947 million for 2019 and 2018, respectively .
 
The following table highlights the key changes in depreciation and amortization expenses in 2019 as compared to 2018 (dollars in
millions):
 
(1) The acquisition of properties primarily includes the DCT  Transaction through which we acquired operating properties and the
related intangible assets in the third quarter of 2018. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information
on the DCT  Transaction.   
29
 
 
Gains on Real Estate Transactions, Net
 
The following table summarizes our Gains on Dispositions of Development Properties and Land, net  and Gains on Other Dispositions
of Investments in Real Estate, net , which includes sales of non-developed properties (primarily operating properties) and other real
estate transactions, for the years ended December 31 (in millions):
 
  2019   2018  
Gains on dispositions of development properties and land, net         
Contributions to unconsolidated entities  $ 403  $ 423 
Dispositions to third parties   65   47 
Total gains on dispositions of development properties and land, net  $ 468  $ 470 
         
Gains on other dispositions of investments in real estate, net         
Contributions to unconsolidated entities  $ 98  $ 36 
Dispositions to third parties   157   335 
Total gains on contributions and dispositions, net  $ 255  $ 371 
Gains on partial redemptions of investment in an unconsolidated co-investment venture   135   - 
Total gains on other dispositions of investments in real estate, net  $ 390  $ 371
 
 
We utilized the proceeds from these transactions primarily to fund our capital investments during both periods. See Note 4 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on these transactions.
 
Our Owned and Managed (“O&M”) Operating Portfolio
 
We manage our business and review our operating fundamentals on an O&M basis, which includes properties wholly owned by us or
owned by one of our co-investment ventures. W e believe reviewing the fundamentals this way allows management to understand the
entire impact to the financial statements, as it will af fect both the Real Estate Operations and Strategic Capital segments, as well as
the net earnings we recognize from our unconsolidated co-investment ventures based on our ownership. W e do not control the
unconsolidated co-investment ventures for purposes of GAAP  and the presentation of the ventures’  operating information does not
represent a legal claim.
 
Our O&M operating portfolio does not include our development portfolio, value-added properties, non-industrial properties or
properties held for sale to third parties and was as follows at December 31 (square feet in millions):
 
 2019   2018  
 Number of
Properties   Square
Feet   Percentage
Occupied   Number of
Properties   Square
Feet   Percentage
Occupied  
Consolidated  1,882    359   96.1%  1,835    348   97.2%
Unconsolidated  1,676    376   96.8%  1,561    339   97.8%
Total  3,558    735   96.5%  3,396    687   97.5%
 
Below are the key operating metrics summarizing the leasing activity of our O&M operating portfolio.
 
 
(1) Square feet of leases commenced and weighted average net ef fective rent change were calculated for leases with initial terms
of one year or greater . We retained more than 70% of our customers, based on the total square feet of leases commenced, for
each year .
 
(2) Turnover costs are defined as leasing commissions and tenant improvements and represent the obligations incurred in
connection with the lease commencement for leases greater than one year . In 2019 and 2018, turnover costs per square foot
30
 
increased, however , due to the longer terms  and higher rents  on leases commenced, this resulted in a lower cost as a
percentage of lease value.
 
Same Store Analysis
 
Our same store metrics are non-GAAP  financial measures, which are commonly used in the real estate industry and expected from
the financial community , on both a net ef fective and cash basis. W e evaluate the performance of the operating properties we own and
manage using a “same store” analysis because the population of properties in this analysis is consistent from period to period, which
allows us and investors to analyze our ongoing business operations. W e determine our same store metrics on property NOI, which is
calculated as rental revenue less rental expense for the applicable properties in the same store population for both consolidated and
unconsolidated properties based on our ownership interest, as further defined below .
 
We define our same store population for the three months ended December 31, 2019 as the properties in our O&M operating portfolio,
including the property NOI for both consolidated properties and properties owned by the unconsolidated co-investment ventures at
January 1, 2018 and owned throughout the same three-month period in both 2018 and 2019. W e believe the drivers of property NOI
for the consolidated portfolio are generally the same for the properties owned by the ventures in which we invest and therefore we
evaluate the same store metrics of the O&M portfolio based on Prologis’  ownership in the properties (“Prologis Share”). The same
store population excludes properties held for sale to third parties, along with development properties that were not stabilized at the
beginning of the period (January 1, 2018) and properties acquired or disposed of to third parties during the period. To derive an
appropriate measure of period-to-period operating performance, we remove the ef fects of foreign currency exchange rate movements
by using the reported period-end exchange rate to translate from local currency into the U.S. dollar , for both periods.
 
As non-GAAP  financial measures, the same store metrics have certain limitations as an analytical tool and may vary among real
estate companies. As a result, we provide a reconciliation of Rental Revenues  less Rental Expenses  (“Property NOI”) (from our
Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP) to our Same Store Property NOI measures.
 
We evaluate the results of our same store portfolio on a quarterly basis. The following is a reconciliation of our consolidated rental
revenues, rental expenses and property NOI for each quarter in 2019 and 2018 to the full year , as included in the Consolidated
Statements of Income and within Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and to the respective amounts in our same store
portfolio analysis for the three months ended December 31 (dollars in millions):
 
  Three Months Ended      
  March 31,   June 30,   September 30,   December 31,   Full Year  
2019                     
Rental revenues  $ 697  $ 701  $ 711  $ 723  $ 2,832  
Rental expenses   (188 )  (181 )  (181 )  (184 )  (734 )
Property NOI  $ 509  $ 520  $ 530  $ 539  $ 2,098  
2018                     
Rental revenues  $ 556  $ 545  $ 609  $ 679  $ 2,389  
Rental expenses   (143 )  (133 )  (147 )  (178 )  (601 )
Property NOI  $ 413  $ 412  $ 462  $ 501  $ 1,788
 
31
 
 
 Three Months Ended
December 31,      
 2019   2018   % Change  
Reconciliation of Consolidated Property NOI to Same Store Property NOI measures:  
            
Rental revenues $ 723  $ 679     
Rental expenses  (184 )  (178 )    
Consolidated Property NOI $ 539  $ 501     
            
Adjustments to derive same store results:            
Property NOI from consolidated properties not included in same store portfolio and
     other adjustments  (1)(2)  (157 )  (128 )    
Property NOI from unconsolidated co-investment ventures included in same store
     portfolio  (1)(2)  452   434     
Third parties' share of Property NOI from properties included in same store portfolio (1)(2) (364 )  (355 )    
Prologis Share of Same Store Property NOI – Net Effective  (2) $ 470  $ 452   4.0%
Consolidated properties straight-line rent and fair value lease adjustments
     included in same store portfolio (3)  (3)  (5)    
Unconsolidated co-investment ventures straight-line rent and fair value lease
     adjustments included in same store portfolio  (3)  (5)  (5)    
Third parties' share of straight-line rent and fair value lease adjustments included
     in same store portfolio  (2)(3)  4   4     
Prologis Share of Same Store Property NOI – Cash  (2)(3) $ 466  $ 446   4.6%
 
 (1) We exclude properties held for sale to third parties, along with development properties that were not stabilized at the beginning
of the period and properties acquired or disposed of to third parties during the period. W e also exclude net termination and
renegotiation fees to allow us to evaluate the growth or decline in each property’ s rental revenues without regard to one-time
items that are not indicative of the property’ s recurring operating performance. Net termination and renegotiation fees represent
the gross fee negotiated to allow a customer to terminate or renegotiate their lease, of fset by the write-of f of the asset recorded
due to the adjustment to straight-line rents over the lease term. Same Store Property NOI is adjusted to include an allocation of
property management expenses for our consolidated properties based on the property management services provided to each
property (generally , based on a percentage of revenues). On consolidation, these amounts are eliminated and the actual costs
of providing property management services are recognized as part of our consolidated rental expense.
 
 (2) We include the Property NOI for the same store portfolio for both consolidated properties and properties owned by the co-
investment ventures based on our investment in the underlying properties. In order to calculate our share of Same Store
Property NOI from the co-investment ventures in which we own less than 100%, we use the co-investment ventures’  underlying
Property NOI for the same store portfolio and apply our ownership percentage at December 31, 2019 to the Property NOI for
both periods, including the properties contributed during the period. W e adjust the total Property NOI from the same store
portfolio of the co-investment ventures by subtracting the third parties’  share of both consolidated and unconsolidated co-
investment ventures .
 
During the periods presented, certain wholly owned properties were contributed to a co-investment venture and are included in
the same store portfolio. Neither our consolidated results nor those of the co-investment ventures, when viewed individually ,
would be comparable on a same store basis because of the changes in composition of the respective portfolios from period to
period (e.g. the results of a contributed property are included in our consolidated results through the contribution date and in the
results of the venture subsequent to the contribution date based on our ownership interest at the end of the period). As a result,
only line items labeled “Prologis Share of Same Store Property NOI” are comparable period over period.
 
 (3) We further remove certain noncash items (straight-line rent and amortization of fair value lease adjustments) included in the
financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP  to reflect a Same Store Property NOI – Cash measure.
 
We manage our business and compensate our executives based on the same store results of our O&M portfolio at 100% as we
manage our portfolio on an ownership blind basis. W e calculate those results by including 100% of the properties included in our
same store portfolio.
 
Other Components of Income (Expense)
 
Earnings from Unconsolidated Entities, Net
 
We recognized net earnings from unconsolidated entities, which are accounted for using the equity method, of $200 million and $298
million during 2019 and 2018, respectively . The decrease in earnings year over year was primarily due to significant gains recognized
in 2018 on real estate dispositions in Europe. The earnings we recognize can be impacted by: (i) variances in revenues and expenses
of each venture; (ii) the size and occupancy rate of the portfolio of properties owned by each venture; (iii) gains or losses from the
dispositions of properties and extinguishment of debt; (iv) our ownership interest in each venture; and (v) fluctuations in foreign
currency exchange rates used to translate our share of net earnings to U.S. dollars.
32
 
 
See the discussion of our unconsolidated entities above in the Strategic Capital segment discussion and in Note 5 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for a further breakdown of our share of net earnings recognized.
 
Interest Expense
 
The following table details our net interest expense (dollars in millions):
 
  2019   2018  
Gross interest expense  $ 271  $ 269 
Amortization of debt discount and debt issuance costs, net   17   12 
Capitalized amounts   (48)  (52)
Net interest expense  $ 240  $ 229 
Weighted average ef fective interest rate during the year   2.4%  3.0%
 
Net interest expense increased by $11 million, primarily due to higher average debt balances in 2019 as compared to 2018. The
increase in debt year over year was due to the assumption of debt in the DCT  Transaction in August 2018 that was mostly refinanced
with debt at lower interest rates. Additionally , we recognized a gain upon settlement of the interest rate swaps on the Canadian term
loan in 2018.
 
See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Liquidity and Capital Resources section, for further discussion of our
debt and borrowing costs.  
 
Foreign Currency and Derivative Gains (Losses), Net
 
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk related to investments in and earnings from our foreign investments.  We may use
derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. W e recognize the change in fair value of the
undesignated derivative contracts in unrealized gains and losses. Upon settlement of these transactions, we recognize realized gains
or losses.
 
We primarily hedge our foreign currency risk by borrowing in the currencies in which we invest thereby providing a natural hedge. W e
may also issue debt in a currency that is not the same functional currency of the borrowing entity and we generally designate the debt
as a nonderivative net investment hedge. We recognize the remeasurement and settlement of the unhedged portion of the debt and
accrued interest in unrealized gains or losses. W e also recognize the change in fair value and settlement of any undesignated
derivative contracts to hedge the eventual payment of these borrowings in a foreign currency in unrealized gains or losses.
 
The following table details our foreign currency and derivative gains (losses), net included in earnings (in millions):
 
  2019   2018  
Realized foreign currency and derivative gains (losses), net:         
Gains (losses) on the settlement of undesignated derivatives  $ 28  $ (3)
Gains on the settlement of transactions with third parties   1   - 
Total realized foreign currency and derivative gains (losses), net   29   (3)
         
Unrealized foreign currency and derivative gains (losses), net:         
Gains (losses) on the change in fair value of undesignated derivatives and unhedged debt   (74)  125 
Gains (losses) on remeasurement of certain assets and liabilities   3   (5)
Total unrealized foreign currency and derivative gains (losses), net   (71)  120 
Total foreign currency and derivative gains (losses), net  $ (42) $ 117
 
 
See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our foreign currency and derivative financial
instrument policies and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our derivative and nonderivative
transactions.
 
Losses on Early Extinguishment of Debt, Net
 
We recognized a loss of $16 million and $3 million upon extinguishment of debt in 2019 and 2018, respectively . Through our financing
activities in both 2019 and 2018 we reduced our ef fective interest rate and lengthened the maturities of our debt. See Note 8 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements and the Liquidity and Capital Resources section, for more information regarding our debt
repurchases.
 
Income Tax Expense
 
We recognize income tax expense related to our taxable REIT  subsidiaries and in certain local, state and foreign jurisdictions in which
we operate. Our current income tax expense fluctuates from period to period based primarily on the timing of our taxable income.
33
 
Deferred income tax expense (benefit) is generally a function of the period’ s temporary dif ferences and the utilization of net operating
losses generated in prior years that had been previously recognized as deferred income tax assets in taxable subsidiaries.
 
The following table summarizes our income tax expense (benefit) (in millions):
 
  2019   2018  
Current income tax expense:         
Income tax expense  $ 48  $ 44 
Income tax expense on dispositions   15   17 
Income tax expense on dispositions related to acquired tax liabilities   -   1 
Total current income tax expense   63   62 
         
Deferred income tax expense (benefit):         
Income tax expense   12   2 
Income tax benefit on dispositions related to acquired tax liabilities   -   (1)
Total deferred income tax expense   12   1 
Total income tax expense  $ 75  $ 63
 
 
Our income taxes are discussed in more detail in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Net Earnings Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests
 
This amount represents the third-party investors’  share of the earnings generated in consolidated entities in which we do not own
100% of the equity , reduced by the third-party share of fees or promotes payable to us and earned during the period.  We had net
earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests of $129 million and $174 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively . Included in these
amounts were $47 million and $49 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively , of net earnings attributable to the common limited
partnership unitholders of Prologis, L.P .
 
See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our noncontrolling interests.
 
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
 
See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our foreign currency and derivative financial
instrument policies and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our derivative and nonderivative
transactions and other comprehensive income (loss).
 
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
 
See Note 16 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about environmental liabilities.
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
Overview
 
We consider our ability to generate cash from operating activities, distributions from our co-investment ventures, contributions and
dispositions of properties and available financing sources to be adequate to meet our anticipated future development, acquisition,
operating, debt service, dividend and distribution requirements.
 
Near-Term Principal Cash Sources and Uses
 
In addition to dividends and distributions, we expect our primary cash needs may consist of the following:
 
• completion of the development and leasing of the properties in our consolidated development portfolio (at December 31, 2019,
105 properties in our development portfolio were 50.0% leased with a current investment of $1.9 billion and a TEI of $4.0 billion
when completed and leased, leaving $2.1 billion of estimated additional required investment);
 
• development of new properties which we may hold for long-term investment or subsequently contribute to unconsolidated co-
investment ventures, including the acquisition of land in certain markets;
 
• capital expenditures and leasing costs on properties in our operating portfolio;
 
• repayment of debt and scheduled principal payments of $536 million in 2020, of which $446 million of senior notes were
redeemed in January 2020;
 
• additional investments in current unconsolidated entities or new investments in future unconsolidated entities;
34
 
 
• acquisition of operating properties or portfolios of operating properties, including the acquisition of IPT  described above,
(depending on market and other conditions) for direct, long-term investment in our consolidated portfolio (this might include
acquisitions from our co-investment ventures); and
 
• repurchase of our outstanding debt or equity securities (depending on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity , contractual
restrictions and other factors) through cash purchases, open-market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, tender of fers
or otherwise.
 
We expect to fund our cash needs principally from the following sources (subject to market conditions):
 
• available unrestricted cash balances ($1.1 billion at December 31, 2019);
 
• net cash flow from property operations;
 
• fees earned for services performed on behalf of the co-investment ventures, including promotes;
 
• distributions received from the co-investment ventures;
 
• proceeds from the disposition of properties, land parcels or other investments to third parties;
 
• proceeds from the contributions of properties to current or future co-investment ventures;
 
• proceeds from the sale of a portion of our investments in co-investment ventures to achieve long-term ownership targets;
 
• borrowing capacity under our current credit facility arrangements, other facilities or borrowing arrangements ($3.7 billion
available at December 31, 2019); and
 
• proceeds from the issuance of debt.
 
We may also generate proceeds from the issuance of equity securities, subject to market conditions. In February 2020, we completed
the Liberty Transaction for approximately $13 billion through the issuance of equity and the assumption of debt.
 
Debt
 
The following table summarizes information about our consolidated debt by currency at December 31 (dollars in millions):
 
  2019   2018  
  Weighted Average
Interest Rate   Amount
Outstanding   % of
Total   Weighted Average
Interest Rate   Amount
Outstanding   % of T otal 
British pound sterling   2.3% $ 657   5.5%  2.3% $ 636   5.8%
Canadian dollar   3.4%  280   2.3%  3.6%  266   2.4%
Euro   1.9%  6,129    51.5%  2.2%  4,894    44.1%
Japanese yen   0.7%  2,329    19.6%  0.9%  1,952    17.6%
U.S. dollar   4.4%  2,511    21.1%  4.5%  3,342    30.1%
Total debt (1)   2.2% $ 11,906        2.7% $ 11,090     
 
 
(1) The weighted average maturity for total debt outstanding at December 31, 2019 and 2018 was 94 and 76 months, respectively .  
 
Our credit ratings at December 31, 2019, were A3 from Moody’ s and A- from Standard & Poor ’s, both with stable outlook. These
ratings allow us to borrow at an advantageous rate. Adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively impact our business and, in
particular , our refinancing and other capital market activities, our ability to manage debt maturities, our future growth and our
development and acquisition activity . A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy , sell or hold securities and is subject to
revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization.
 
At December 31, 2019, we were in compliance with all of our financial debt covenants. These covenants include customary financial
covenants for total debt, encumbered debt and fixed charge coverage ratios.
 
See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on our debt.
 
Equity Commitments Related to Certain Co-Investment Ventures
 
Certain co-investment ventures have equity commitments from us and our venture partners. Our venture partners fulfill their equity
commitment with cash. W e may fulfill our equity commitment through contributions of properties or cash.
 
35
 
The following table summarizes the remaining equity commitments at December  31, 201 9 (in millions):
 
  Equity Commitments      
  Prologis   Venture
Partners   Total   Exchange Rate  Expiration
Date
Prologis Targeted U.S. Logistics Fund  $ -  $ 1,919   $ 1,919   N/A  2022
Prologis European Logistics Fund   -   747   747  1.12 U.S. dollar/
1 euro  2022
Prologis UK Logistics V enture   11   59   70  1.32 U.S. dollar/
1 British pound sterling  2021
Prologis China Core Logistics Fund  (1)  -   311   311  0.14 U.S. dollar/
1 Chinese renminbi  2022
Prologis China Logistics V enture (1)   321   1,818    2,139   N/A  2020 – 2024
Prologis Brazil Logistics V enture   48   193   241  0.25 U.S. dollar/
1 Brazilian real  2026
Total  $ 380  $ 5,047   $ 5,427      
 
(1)As discussed above, in December 2019 we formed PCCLF with eight venture partners with initial equity commitments of ¥4,622
million ($657 million). At that time, we and our existing partner in Prologis China Logistics V enture I, LP  contributed the real
estate portfolio to PCCLF in exchange for equity interests. The contributions from the seven new partners were used to redeem
a portion of our existing partner ’s investment in PCCLF .
 
See the Cash Flow Summary below for more information about our investment activity in the co-investment ventures.
 
Cash Flow Summary
 
The following table summarizes our cash flow activity (in millions):
 
  2019   2018  
Net cash provided by operating activities  $ 2,264   $ 1,804  
Net cash used in investing activities  $ (685 ) $ (664 )
Net cash used in financing activities  $ (840 ) $ (1,232 )
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents, including the ef fect of foreign
    currency exchange rates  $ 745  $ (103 )
 
Operating Activities
 
Cash provided by operating activities, exclusive of changes in receivables and payables, was impacted by the following significant
activities:
 
• Real estate operations. We receive the majority of our operating cash through the net revenues of our Real Estate Operations
segment. See the Results of Operations section above for further explanation on our Real Estate Operations segment. The
revenues from this segment include noncash adjustments for straight-lined rents and amortization of above and below market
leases of $98 million and $67 million for 2019 and 2018, respectively .
 
• Strategic capital.  We also generate operating cash through our Strategic Capital segment by providing asset and property
management and other services to our unconsolidated co-investment ventures. See the Results of Operations section above for
the key drivers of the net revenues from our Strategic Capital segment. Included in Strategic Capital Revenues  is the third-party
investors’  share that is owed for fees and promotes, which is recognized in operating activities in the period the cash is received.
 
• G&A  expenses and equity-based compensation awards.  We incurred $266 million and $239 million of G&A  costs in 2019
and 2018, respectively . Included in these amounts are equity-based, noncash compensation expenses of $98 million and $76
million in 2019 and 2018, respectively , which were recorded to Rental Expenses in the Real Estate Operations segment,
Strategic Capital Expenses in the Strategic Capital segment and G&A Expenses.
 
• Operating distributions from unconsolidated entities.  We received $347 million and $350 million of distributions from our
unconsolidated entities in 2019 and 2018, respectively . Certain unconsolidated co-investment ventures distribute the total
promote, including our share, that is recorded to Investment In and Advances to Unconsolidated Entities  and is included in
operating activities in the period the cash is received.  
 
• Cash paid for interest and income taxes, net.  We paid combined amounts for interest and income taxes, net of amounts
received, of $277 million and $266 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively . See Note 8 and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information on this activity .
 
Investing Activities
 
36
 
Cash provided by investing activities is driven by proceeds from contributions and dispositions of real estate properties , including the
contribution of the initial portfolio of properties to PBL V. Cash used in investing activities is principally driven by our capital deployment
activities of invest ing in real estate development, acquisitions and capital expenditures. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information on these activities. In addition, the following significant transactions also impacted our cash
provided by or used in investing activities:  
 
• DCT T ransaction, net of cash acquired.  We paid net cash of $46 million to complete the DCT  Transaction in 2018, primarily
due to transaction costs. The acquisition was financed through the issuance of equity and assumption of debt. See Notes 3 and
18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more detail on the DCT  Transaction.
 
• Investments in and advances to.  We invested cash in our unconsolidated entities that represented our proportionate share, of
$276 million and $160 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively . The ventures used the funds for the acquisition of properties,
development and repayment of debt. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more detail on our
unconsolidated co-investment ventures.
 
• Return of investment. We received distributions from unconsolidated entities as a return of investment of $389 million and
$360 million during 2019 and 2018, respectively . Included in these amounts were distributions from venture activities including
proceeds from property sales, debt refinancing and the redemption of our investment in certain unconsolidated entities.
 
• Proceeds from repayment of notes receivable backed by real estate.  We received $34 million for the repayment of notes
received in connection with the disposition of real estate to third parties in 2018 .
 
• Settlement of net investment hedges . We paid net cash of $7 million and received $18 million from the settlement of net
investment hedges during 2019 and 2018, respectively . See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information on our derivative transactions.
 
Financing Activities
 
Cash provided by and used in financing activities is principally driven by proceeds from and payments on credit facilities and other
debt, along with dividends paid on common and preferred stock and noncontrolling interest contributions and distributions.
 
Our repurchase of and payments on debt and proceeds from the issuance of debt consisted of the following activity (in millions):
 
  2019   2018  
Repurchase of and payments on debt (including extinguishment costs) (1)         
Regularly scheduled debt principal payments and payments at maturity  $ 29  $ 201 
Secured mortgage debt   433   508 
Senior notes   669   973 
Term loans   2,171    2,484  
Total  $ 3,302   $ 4,166  
         
Proceeds from the issuance of debt         
Secured mortgage debt  $ 250  $ 229 
Senior notes   2,053    2,493  
Term loans   1,674    2,178  
Total  $ 3,977   $ 4,900
 
 
(1) We completed the DCT  Transaction in 2018 and assumed $1.9 billion of debt, of which $1.8 billion was paid of f with the
proceeds from the issuance of senior notes. The assumption of $1.9 billion of debt was excluded from the table above.
 
37
 
OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS
 
Unconsolidated Co-Investment Venture Debt
 
We had investments in and advances to our unconsolidated co-investment ventures, at December 31, 2019, of $5.9 billion. The
ventures listed below had total third-party debt of $9.4 billion at December 31, 2019. Certain of our ventures do not have third-party
debt and are therefore excluded. This debt is non-recourse to Prologis and other investors in the co-investment ventures and matures
and bears interest as follows at December 31, 2019 (dollars in millions):
 
  Total (1)  Weighted Average Interest
Rate   Gross Book V alue (1)  Ownership %  
Prologis Targeted U.S. Logistics
Fund  $2,130   3.8%   $ 8,920   27.3%  
FIBRA  Prologis   769  4.6%    2,112   47.1%  
Prologis European Logistics Fund   2,749   2.1%    10,854   24.1%  
Prologis UK Logistics V enture   464  3.3%    862  15.0%  
Nippon Prologis REIT   2,199   0.7%    5,980   15.1%  
Prologis China Core Logistics Fund   597  6.0%    1,749   15.6%  
Prologis China Logistics V enture   500  3.8%    948  15.0%  
Total  $9,408       $ 31,425      
                
 
(1) The weighted average loan-to-value ratio for all unconsolidated co-investment ventures was 26.0% at December 31, 2019.
Loan-to-value, a non-GAAP  measure, was calculated as the percentage of total third-party debt to the gross book value of real
estate for each venture and weighted based on the cumulative gross book value of all unconsolidated co-investment ventures.
 
At December 31, 2019, we did not guarantee any third-party debt of the unconsolidated co-investment ventures. In our role as the
manager or sponsor , we work with the co-investment ventures to maintain suf ficient liquidity and refinance their maturing debt. There
can be no assurance that the co-investment ventures will be able to refinance any maturing indebtedness on terms as favorable as
the maturing debt, or at all. If the ventures are unable to refinance the maturing indebtedness with newly issued debt, they may be
able to obtain funds by voluntary capital contributions from us and our partners or by selling assets. Certain of our ventures also have
credit facilities, or unencumbered properties, both of which may be used to obtain funds.
 
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS
 
Long-Term Contractual Obligations
 
The following table summarizes our long-term contractual obligations at December 31, 2019 (in millions):
 
 Payments Due by Period  
 Less than
1 Year   1 to 3
Years   3 to 5
Years   More than
5 Years   Total  
Debt obligations, other than credit facilities $ 536  $ 1,680   $ 2,064   $ 7,530   $11,810  
Interest on debt obligations, other than credit facilities  257   468   345   867   1,937  
Unfunded commitments on the development portfolio (1)  1,647    454   -   -   2,101  
Operating and financing lease payments (2)  44   88   75   776   983 
Total $ 2,484   $ 2,690   $ 2,484   $ 9,173   $16,831
 
 
(1) We had properties in our consolidated development portfolio (completed and under development) at December 31, 2019, with a
TEI of $4.0 billion. The unfunded commitments presented include not only those costs that we are obligated to fund under
construction contracts, but all costs necessary to place the property into service, including the estimated costs of tenant
improvements, marketing and leasing costs that we expect to incur as the property is leased.
 
(2) Beginning January 1, 2019, as a lessee we were required to record both a right-of-use asset and lease liability for our ground
and of fice space leases based on the present value of our future minimum lease payments. See Note 2 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information.
 
Distribution and Dividend Requirements
 
Our dividend policy on our common stock is to distribute a percentage of our cash flow to ensure that we will meet the dividend
requirements of the IRC, relative to maintaining our REIT  status, while still allowing us to retain cash to fund capital improvements and
other investment activities.
 
Under the IRC, REIT s may be subject to certain federal income and excise taxes on our undistributed taxable income.
 
We paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.53 and $0.48 per common share in 2019 and 2018, respectively . Our future common stock
dividends, if and as declared, may vary and will be determined by the Board based upon the circumstances prevailing at the time,
38
 
including our financial condition, operating results and REIT  distribution requirements, and may be adjusted at the discretion of the
Board during the year .
 
We make distributions on the common limited partnership units outstanding at the same per unit amount as our common stock
dividend. The Class A Units in the OP  are entitled to a quarterly distribution equal to $0.64665 per unit so long as the common units
receive a quarterly distribution of at least $0.40 per unit. W e paid a quarterly distribution of $0.64665 per Class A Unit in 2019 and
2018.
 
At December 31, 2019, we had 1.4 million shares of Series Q preferred stock outstanding with a liquidation preference of $50 per
share. The annual dividend rate is 8.54% per share and dividends are payable quarterly in arrears. Pursuant to the terms of our
preferred stock, we are restricted from declaring or paying any dividend with respect to our common stock unless and until all
cumulative dividends with respect to the preferred stock have been paid and suf ficient funds have been set aside for dividends that
have been declared for the relevant dividend period with respect to the preferred stock.
 
Other Commitments
 
On a continuing basis, we are engaged in various stages of negotiations for the acquisition or disposition of individual properties or
portfolios of properties.
 
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
A critical accounting policy is one that involves an estimate or assumption that is subjective and requires management judgment about
the ef fect of a matter that is inherently uncertain and material to an entity’ s financial condition and results of operations. Management’ s
best judgment considers historical and current economic conditions and expectations for the future. Changes in estimates could af fect
our financial position and specific items in our results of operations that are used by stockholders, potential investors, industry
analysts and lenders in their evaluation of our performance. Of the significant accounting policies discussed in Note 2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, those presented below have been identified by us as meeting the criteria to be considered critical
accounting policies. Refer to Note 2 for more information on these critical accounting policies.
 
Acquisitions
 
We generally account for an acquisition of a single property or portfolio of properties as an asset acquisition. W e measure the real
estate assets acquired through an asset acquisition based on their cost or total consideration exchanged and any excess
consideration or bargain purchase amount is allocated to the real estate properties, excluding those identified as held for sale, on a
relative fair value basis.
 
We make estimates as part of our valuation of the assumed assets and liabilities at the acquisition date. The components of an
acquisition typically include buildings, land, improvements, intangible assets or liabilities related to the acquired leases, debt, deferred
tax assets and liabilities and other assumed assets and liabilities. The purchase price allocation is based on the expected future cash
flows of the property and various characteristics of the markets where the property is located utilizing an income approach
methodology , which may be a discounted cash flow analysis or applying a capitalization rate to the estimated NOI of a property . Key
assumptions include market rents, growth rates, and discount and capitalization rates. Estimates of future cash flows are based on a
number of factors including historical operating results, known trends and market and economic conditions. W e determine discount
and capitalization rates by market based on recent transactions and other market data. The fair value of land is generally based on
relevant market data, such as a comparison of the subject site to similar parcels that have recently been sold or are currently being
offered on the market for sale. The use of dif ferent assumptions to value the acquired properties and intangible assets and assumed
liabilities could af fect the future revenues and expenses we recognize over the estimated remaining useful life or lease term.
 
Recoverability of Real Estate Assets
 
We assess the carrying values of our respective long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amounts of these assets may not be fully recoverable.
 
Recoverability of real estate assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to the estimated future
undiscounted cash flows. To review our real estate assets for recoverability , we consider current market conditions and property-level
operating results, as well as our intent with respect to holding or disposing of the asset. Our intent with regard to the underlying assets
might change as market conditions change. Fair value is determined through various valuation techniques, including discounted cash
flow models, applying a capitalization rate to the estimated NOI of a property , quoted market values and third-party appraisals, where
considered necessary . The use of projected future cash flows is based on assumptions that are consistent with our estimates of future
expectations and the strategic plan we use to manage our underlying business. If our analysis indicates that the carrying value of a
property that we expect to hold is not recoverable on an undiscounted cash flow basis, we recognize an impairment charge for the
amount by which the carrying value exceeds the current estimated fair value of the property . Assumptions and estimates used in the
recoverability analyses for future cash flows, including market rents, discount rates and capitalization rates are complex and
subjective. Changes in economic and operating conditions or our intent with regard to our investment that occurs subsequent to our
impairment analyses could impact these assumptions and result in future impairment.
 
39
 
NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
 
See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS ATTRIBUTABLE TO COMMON STOCKHOLDERS/UNITHOLDERS (“FFO”)
 
FFO is a non-GAAP  financial measure that is commonly used in the real estate industry . The most directly comparable GAAP
measure to FFO is net earnings.
 
The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”) defines FFO as earnings computed under GAAP  to exclude
historical cost depreciation and gains and losses from the sales, along with impairment charges, of previously depreciated properties.
We also exclude the gains on revaluation of equity investments upon acquisition of a controlling interest and the gain recognized from
a partial sale of our investment, as these are similar to gains from the sales of previously depreciated properties. W e exclude similar
adjustments from our unconsolidated entities and the third parties’  share of our consolidated co-investment ventures.
 
Our FFO Measures
 
Our FFO measures begin with NAREIT’ s definition and we make certain adjustments to reflect our business and the way that
management plans and executes our business strategy . While not infrequent or unusual, the additional items we adjust for in
calculating FFO, as modified by Prologis and Core FFO , both as defined below , are subject to significant fluctuations from period to
period. Although these items may have a material impact on our operations and are reflected in our financial statements, the removal
of the ef fects of these items allows us to better understand the core operating performance of our properties over the long term. These
items have both positive and negative short-term ef fects on our results of operations in inconsistent and unpredictable directions that
are not relevant to our long-term outlook.
 
We calculate our FFO measures, as defined below , based on our proportionate ownership share of both our unconsolidated and
consolidated ventures. W e reflect our share of our FFO measures for unconsolidated ventures by applying our average ownership
percentage for the period to the applicable reconciling items on an entity by entity basis. W e reflect our share for consolidated
ventures in which we do not own 100% of the equity by adjusting our FFO measures to remove the noncontrolling interests share of
the applicable reconciling items based on our average ownership percentage for the applicable periods.
 
These FFO measures are used by management as supplemental financial measures of operating performance and we believe that it
is important that stockholders, potential investors and financial analysts understand the measures management uses. W e do not use
our FFO measures as, nor should they be considered to be, alternatives to net earnings computed under GAAP , as indicators of our
operating performance, as alternatives to cash from operating activities computed under GAAP  or as indicators of our ability to fund
our cash needs.
 
We analyze our operating performance principally by the rental revenue of our real estate and the revenues from our strategic capital
business, net of operating, administrative and financing expenses. This income stream is not directly impacted by fluctuations in the
market value of our investments in real estate or debt securities.
 
FFO, as modified by Prologis attributable to common stockholders/unitholders (“FFO, as modified by Prologis”)
 
To arrive at FFO, as modified by Prologis , we adjust the NAREIT  defined FFO measure to exclude the impact of foreign currency
related items and deferred tax, specifically:
 
• deferred income tax benefits and deferred income tax expenses recognized by our subsidiaries;
 
• current income tax expense related to acquired tax liabilities that were recorded as deferred tax liabilities in an acquisition, to the
extent the expense is of fset with a deferred income tax benefit in earnings that is excluded from our defined FFO measure; and
 
• foreign currency exchange gains and losses resulting from (i) debt transactions between us and our foreign entities, (ii) third-
party debt that is used to hedge our investment in foreign entities, (iii) derivative financial instruments related to any such debt
transactions, and (iv) mark-to-market adjustments associated with other derivative financial instruments.
 
We use FFO, as modified by Prologis , so that management, analysts and investors are able to evaluate our performance against
other REIT s that do not have similar operations or operations in jurisdictions outside the U.S.
 
Core FFO attributable to common stockholders/unitholders (“Core FFO”)
 
In addition to FFO, as modified by Prologis , we also use Core FFO.  To arrive at Core FFO, we adjust FFO, as modified by Prologis , to
exclude the following recurring and nonrecurring items that we recognized directly in FFO, as modified by Prologis :
 
• gains or losses from the disposition of land and development properties that were developed with the intent to contribute or sell;
 
• income tax expense related to the sale of investments in real estate;
 
40
 
• impairment charges recognized related to our investments in real estate generally as a result of our change in intent to
contribute or sell these properties;
 
• gains or losses from the early extinguishment of debt and redemption and repurchase of preferred stock; and
 
• expenses related to natural disasters.
 
We use Core FFO , including by segment and geographies, to: (i) assess our operating performance as compared to other real estate
companies; (ii) evaluate our performance and the performance of our properties in comparison with expected results and results of
previous periods; (iii) evaluate the performance of our management; (iv) budget and forecast future results to assist in the allocation of
resources; (v) provide guidance to the financial markets to understand our expected operating performance; and (vi) evaluate how a
specific potential investment will impact our future results.
 
Limitations on the use of our FFO measures
 
While we believe our modified FFO measures are important supplemental measures, neither NAREIT’ s nor our measures of FFO
should be used alone because they exclude significant economic components of net earnings computed under GAAP  and are,
therefore, limited as an analytical tool. Accordingly , these are only a few of the many measures we use when analyzing our business.
Some of the limitations are:
 
• The current income tax expenses that are excluded from our modified FFO measures represent the taxes and transaction costs
that are payable.
 
• Depreciation and amortization of real estate assets are economic costs that are excluded from FFO. FFO is limited, as it does
not reflect the cash requirements that may be necessary for future replacements of the real estate assets. Furthermore, the
amortization of capital expenditures and leasing costs necessary to maintain the operating performance of logistics facilities are
not reflected in FFO.
 
• Gains or losses from non-development property dispositions and impairment charges related to expected dispositions represent
changes in value of the properties. By excluding these gains and losses, FFO does not capture realized changes in the value of
disposed properties arising from changes in market conditions.
 
• The deferred income tax benefits and expenses that are excluded from our modified FFO measures result from the creation of a
deferred income tax asset or liability that may have to be settled at some future point. Our modified FFO measures do not
currently reflect any income or expense that may result from such settlement.
 
• The foreign currency exchange gains and losses that are excluded from our modified FFO measures are generally recognized
based on movements in foreign currency exchange rates through a specific point in time. The ultimate settlement of our foreign
currency-denominated net assets is indefinite as to timing and amount. Our FFO measures are limited in that they do not reflect
the current period changes in these net assets that result from periodic foreign currency exchange rate movements.
 
• The gains and losses on extinguishment of debt or preferred stock that we exclude from our Core FFO, may provide a benefit or
cost to us as we may be settling our obligation at less or more than our future obligation.
 
• The natural disaster expenses that we exclude from Core FFO are costs that we have incurred.
 
41
 
We compensate for these limitations by using our FFO measures only in conjunction with net earnings computed under GAAP  when
making our decisions. This information should be read with our complete Consolidated Financial Statements prepared under GAAP .
To assist investors in compensating for these limitations, we reconcile our modified FFO measures to our net earnings computed
under GAAP  as follows  (in millions) :
 
  2019   2018  
Reconciliation of net earnings attributable to common stockholders/unitholders to FFO
measures:         
Net earnings attributable to common stockholders  $ 1,567   $ 1,643  
         
Add (deduct) NAREIT  defined adjustments:         
Real estate related depreciation and amortization   1,102    913 
Gains on other dispositions of investments in real estate, net   (390 )  (371 )
Reconciling items related to noncontrolling interests   (8)  23 
Our share of reconciling items included in earnings related to unconsolidated entities   246   142 
NAREIT defined FFO attributable to common stockholders/unitholders   2,517    2,350  
         
Add (deduct) our modified adjustments:         
Unrealized foreign currency and derivative losses (gains), net   69   (120 )
Deferred income tax expense   12   1 
Current income tax expense on dispositions related to acquired tax liabilities   -   1 
Our share of reconciling items included in earnings related to unconsolidated entities   (7)  - 
FFO, as modified by Prologis attributable to common stockholders/unitholders   2,591    2,232  
         
Adjustments to arrive at Core FFO:         
Gains on dispositions of development properties and land, net   (468 )  (470 )
Current income tax expense on dispositions   15   17 
Losses on early extinguishment of debt, net   16   3 
Reconciling items related to noncontrolling interests   -   6 
Our share of reconciling items included in earnings related to unconsolidated entities   10   - 
Core FFO attributable to common stockholders/unitholders  $ 2,164   $ 1,788
 
 
ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
 
We are exposed to the impact of foreign exchange-related variability and earnings volatility on our foreign investments and interest
rate changes. See our risk factors in Item 1A. Risk Factors, specifically:  The depreciation in the value of the foreign currency in
countries where we have a significant investment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position and we may be
unable to refinance our debt or our cash flow may be insufficient to make required debt payments.  See also Notes 2 and 15 in the
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for more information about our foreign
operations and derivative financial instruments.
 
We monitor our market risk exposures using a sensitivity analysis. Our sensitivity analysis estimates the exposure to market risk
sensitive instruments assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates at December
31, 2019. The results of the sensitivity analysis are summarized in the following sections. The sensitivity analysis is of limited
predictive value. As a result, revenues and expenses, as well as our ultimate realized gains or losses with respect to foreign currency
exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during a future period, hedging strategies at the
time and the prevailing foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
 
Foreign Currency Risk
 
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange variability related to investments in and earnings from our foreign investments. Foreign
currency market risk is the possibility that our results of operations or financial position could be better or worse than planned because
of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. W e primarily hedge our foreign currency risk by borrowing in the currencies in which
we invest thereby providing a natural hedge. W e may also issue debt in a currency that is not the same functional currency of the
borrowing entity and we generally designate the debt as a nonderivative net investment hedge. Additionally , we hedge our foreign
currency risk by entering into derivative financial instruments that we designate as net investment hedges, as these amounts of fset
the translation adjustments on the underlying net assets of our foreign investments. At December 31, 2019, after consideration of our
ability to borrow in the foreign currencies in which we invest and also derivative and nonderivative financial instruments as discussed
in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we had minimal net equity denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar .
 
For the year ended December 31, 2019, $545 million or 16.4% of our total consolidated revenue was denominated in foreign
currencies. W e enter into other foreign currency contracts, such as forwards, to reduce fluctuations in foreign currency associated with
the translation of the future earnings of our international subsidiaries. W e have forward contracts that were not designated as hedges,
denominated principally in British pound sterling, Canadian dollar , euro, Japanese yen and Swedish krona, and have an aggregate
notional amount of $1.1 billion to mitigate risk associated with the translation of the future earnings of our subsidiaries denominated in
these currencies. Although the impact to net earnings is mitigated through higher translated U.S. dollar earnings from these
currencies,
42
 
a weakening of the U.S. dollar against these c urrencies by 10% c ould result in a $ 111 million cash payment on settlement of these
contracts .
 
Interest Rate Risk
 
We are also exposed to the impact of interest rate changes on future earnings and cash flows. To mitigate that risk, we generally
borrow with fixed rate debt and we may use derivative instruments to fix the interest rate on our variable rate debt. At December 31,
2019, $10.0 billion of our debt bore interest at fixed rates and therefore the fair value of these instruments was af fected by changes in
market interest rates. At December 31, 2019, $2.0 billion of our debt bore interest at variable rates. The following table summarizes
the future repayment of debt and scheduled principal payments at December 31, 2019 (dollars in millions):
 
 2020   2021   2022   2023   Thereafter   Total   Fair V alue  
Fixed rate debt $ 19  $818  $798  $884  $ 7,437   $9,956   $10,487  
Weighted average interest
rate (1)  6.0%   1.7%   3.2%   4.4%   2.3%   2.6%     
                            
Variable rate debt                            
Credit facilities $ -  $184  $ -  $ -  $ -  $ 184  $ 184 
Term loans  -   -   -   131   1,013    1,144    1,147  
Senior notes  449   -   -   -   -   449   449 
Secured mortgage debt  68   64   -   -   130   262   261 
Total variable rate debt $517  $248  $ -  $131  $ 1,143   $2,039   $ 2,041
 
 
(1)The interest rates represent the ef fective interest rates (including amortization of the debt issuance costs and the noncash
premiums and discounts) at December 31, 2019 for the debt outstanding .
 
At December 31, 2019, the weighted average ef fective interest rate on our variable rate debt was 0.6%. Changes in interest rates can
cause interest expense to fluctuate on our variable rate debt. On the basis of our sensitivity analysis, a 10% increase in interest rates
on our average outstanding variable rate debt balances would result in additional annual interest expense of $1 million for the year
ended December 31, 2019, which equates to a change in interest rates of 8 basis points on our average outstanding variable rate
debt balances and 1 basis point on our average total debt portfolio balances.
 
ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
The Consolidated Balance Sheets of Prologis, Inc. and Prologis, L.P . at December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Consolidated Statements
of Income of Prologis, Inc. and Prologis, L.P ., the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income of Prologis, Inc. and Prologis,
L.P., the Consolidated Statements of Equity of Prologis, Inc., the Consolidated Statements of Capital of Prologis, L.P . and the
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows of Prologis, Inc. and Prologis, L.P . for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2019, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule III — Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation,
together with the reports of KPMG LLP , independent registered public accounting firm, are included under Item 15 of this report and
are incorporated herein by reference. Selected unaudited quarterly financial data are presented in Note 19 of the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
 
ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
 
None.
 
ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures
 
Controls and Procedures (The Parent)
 
Prologis, Inc. carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Of ficer, of the ef fectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under
the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”)) at December 31, 2019. Based on this evaluation, the Chief Executive
Officer and the Chief Financial Of ficer have concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures are ef fective to ensure that
information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC rules and forms. Subsequent to December 31, 2019, there
were no significant changes in the internal controls or in other factors that could significantly af fect these controls, including any
corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.
 
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
 
There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15(d)-15(f)
under the Exchange Act) that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2019, that has materially af fected, or is reasonably
likely to materially af fect, our internal control over financial reporting.
 
43
 
Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
 
We are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act.
 
Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Of ficer and Chief Financial Of ficer, an
evaluation of the ef fectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting was conducted at December 31, 2019, based on the
criteria described in “Internal Control — Integrated Framework” (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. Based on this assessment, management determined that, at December 31, 2019, the internal control over
financial reporting was ef fective.
 
Our internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2019, has been audited by KPMG LLP , an independent registered public
accounting firm, as stated in their attestation report which is included herein.
 
Limitations of the Effectiveness of Controls
 
Management’ s assessment included an evaluation of the design of the internal control over financial reporting and testing of the
operational ef fectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting. The internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with GAAP . Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of ef fectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures
may deteriorate.
 
Controls and Procedures (The OP)
 
Prologis, L.P . carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Of ficer, of the ef fectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under
the Exchange Act) at December 31, 2019. Based on this evaluation, the Chief Executive Of ficer and the Chief Financial Of ficer have
concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures are ef fective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports
that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in
the SEC rules and forms. Subsequent to December 31, 2019, there were no significant changes in the internal controls or in other
factors that could significantly af fect these controls, including any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses.
 
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
 
There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15(d)-15(f)
under the Exchange Act) that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2019, that has materially af fected, or is reasonably
likely to materially af fect, our internal control over financial reporting.
 
Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
 
We are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act.
 
Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Of ficer and Chief Financial Of ficer, an
evaluation of the ef fectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting was conducted at December 31, 2019, based on the
criteria described in “Internal Control — Integrated Framework” (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. Based on this assessment, management determined that, at December 31, 2019, the internal control over
financial reporting was ef fective.
 
Limitations of the Effectiveness of Controls
 
Management’ s assessment included an evaluation of the design of the internal control over financial reporting and testing of the
operational ef fectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting. The internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with GAAP . Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of ef fectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures
may deteriorate.
 
ITEM 9B. Other Information
 
None.
 
44
 
PART III
 
ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Of ficers and Corporate Governance
 
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to, including relevant sections in our 2020 Proxy Statement,
under the captions entitled Board of Directors and Corporate Governance; Executive Of ficers; Executive Compensation; Director
Compensation; Security Ownership; Equity Compensation Plans and Additional Information or will be provided in an amendment filed
on Form 10-K/A.
 
ITEM 11. Executive Compensation
 
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the relevant sections in our 2020 Proxy Statement, under
the captions entitled Board of Directors and Corporate Governance; Executive Of ficers; Executive Compensation and Director
Compensation or will be provided in an amendment filed on Form 10-K/A.
 
ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters
 
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the relevant sections in our 2020 Proxy Statement, under
the captions entitled Security Ownership and Equity Compensation Plans or will be provided in an amendment filed on Form 10-K/A.
 
ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
 
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the relevant sections in our 2020 Proxy Statement, under
the caption entitled Board of Directors and Corporate Governance or will be provided in an amendment filed on Form 10-K/A.
 
ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services
 
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the relevant sections in our 2020 Proxy Statement, under
the caption entitled Audit Matters or will be provided in an amendment filed on Form 10-K/A.
 
PART IV
 
ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statements and Schedules
 
The following documents are filed as a part of this report:
 
(a) Financial Statements and Schedules:
 
1. Financial Statements:
 
See Index to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule III on page 46 of this report, which is incorporated herein
by reference.
 
2. Financial Statement Schedules:
 
Schedule III — Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
 
All other schedules have been omitted since the required information is presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements and the
related notes or is not applicable.
 
(b) Exhibits: The Exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K are listed in the Index to the Exhibits on pages 98 to 105 of this
report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(c) Financial Statements: See Index to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule III on page 46 of this report, which is
incorporated by reference.
 
ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary
 
Not Applicable.
45
 
INDEX T O THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE III
 
 Page
Number
Prologis, Inc. and Prologis, L.P .:  
Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 47
Prologis, Inc.:  
Consolidated Balance Sheets 50
Consolidated Statements of Income 51
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 52
Consolidated Statements of Equity 53
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 54
Prologis, L.P .:  
Consolidated Balance Sheets 55
Consolidated Statements of Income 56
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 57
Consolidated Statements of Capital 58
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 59
Prologis, Inc. and Prologis, L.P .:  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 60
     Note 1. Description of the Business 60
     Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 60
     Note 3. DCT  Transaction 67
     Note 4. Real Estate 68
     Note 5. Unconsolidated Entities 70
     Note 6. Assets Held for Sale or Contribution 73
     Note 7. Other Assets and Other Liabilities 73
     Note 8. Debt 74
     Note 9. Stockholders' Equity of Prologis, Inc. 77
     Note 10. Partners' Capital of Prologis, L.P . 78
     Note 11. Noncontrolling Interests 79
     Note 12. Long-T erm Compensation 79
     Note 13. Income Taxes 82
     Note 14. Earnings Per Common Share or Unit 84
     Note 15. Financial Instruments and Fair V alue Measurements 85
     Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies 88
     Note 17. Business Segments 89
     Note 18. Supplemental Cash Flow Information 91
     Note 19. Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) 93
     Note 20. Subsequent Events 94
Schedule III — Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 95
 
46
 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
To the Stockholders and Board of Directors
Prologis, Inc.:
 
Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Prologis, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2019
and 2018, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-
year period ended December 31, 2019, and the related notes and financial statement schedule III (collectively, the consolidated financial
statements). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company
as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2019, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated
Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our report dated February 10,
2020 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
 
Change in Accounting Principle
 
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company has changed its method of accounting for leases as of January
1, 2019 due to the adoption of Accounting Standards Codification Topic 842, Leases.
 
Basis for Opinion
 
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to
be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of
the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or
fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements,
whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis,
evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial
statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
Critical Audit Matter
 
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that
was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to
the consolidated financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgment. The communication of a
critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by
communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to
which it relates.
 
Assessment of the Company’s evaluation of the expected holding period for operating properties and land
 
As discussed in Notes 2 and 4, the Company had $31,288 million of operating properties and $1,102 million of land as of December 31,
2019. The Company tests the recoverability of operating properties and land whenever events or changes in circumstances, including
shortening the expected holding period of such assets, indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable.
 
We identified the assessment of the Company’s evaluation of the expected holding period for operating properties and land as a critical
audit matter. Subjective auditor judgment was required to assess the relevant events or changes in circumstances that the Company
used to evaluate its expected holding period. A shortening of the expected holding period could indicate a potential impairment.
 
The primary procedures we performed to address this critical audit matter included the following. We tested certain internal controls over
the Company’s recoverability of operating properties and land process including controls related to determining the expected holding
period and any related changes. We evaluated the Company’s expected holding period by inquiring of management regarding the
expected holding period, considering the current economic environment, reading minutes of the meetings of the Company’s Board of
Directors, reading external communications with investors and analysts, and analyzing documents prepared by the Company regarding
proposed real estate transactions and potential triggering events.
 
/s/ KPMG LLP
 
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2002.
 
Denver, Colorado
February 10, 2020
47
 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
To the Partners of Prologis, L.P. and the Board of Directors of Prologis, Inc.:
 
Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Prologis, L.P. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2019
and 2018, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, capital, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-
year period ended December 31, 2019, and the related notes and financial statement schedule III (collectively, the consolidated financial
statements). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company
as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2019, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
 
Change in Accounting Principle
 
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company has changed its method of accounting for leases as of January
1, 2019 due to the adoption of Accounting Standards Codification Topic 842, Leases.
 
Basis for Opinion
 
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S.
federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or
fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements,
whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis,
evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial
statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
Critical Audit Matter
 
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that
was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to
the consolidated financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgment. The communication of a
critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by
communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to
which it relates.
 
Assessment of the Company’s evaluation of the expected holding period for operating properties and land
 
As discussed in Notes 2 and 4, the Company had $31,288 million of operating properties and $1,102 million of land as of December 31,
2019. The Company tests the recoverability of operating properties and land whenever events or changes in circumstances, including
shortening the expected holding period of such assets, indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable.
 
We identified the assessment of the Company’s evaluation of the expected holding period for operating properties and land as a critical
audit matter. Subjective auditor judgment was required to assess the relevant events or changes in circumstances that the Company
used to evaluate its expected holding period. A shortening of the expected holding period could indicate a potential impairment.
 
The primary procedures we performed to address this critical audit matter included the following. We tested certain internal controls over
the Company’s recoverability of operating properties and land process including controls related to determining the expected holding
period and any related changes. We evaluated the Company’s expected holding period by inquiring of management regarding the
expected holding period, considering the current economic environment, reading minutes of the meetings of the Company’s Board of
Directors, reading external communications with investors and analysts, and analyzing documents prepared by the Company regarding
proposed real estate transactions and potential triggering events.
 
/s/ KPMG LLP
 
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2002.
 
Denver, Colorado
February 10, 2020
48
 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
To the Stockholders and Board of Directors
Prologis, Inc.:
 
Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
 
We have audited Prologis, Inc. and subsidiaries’ (the Company) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on
criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2019, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the
consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the related consolidated statements of income,
comprehensive income, equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2019, and the related notes
and financial statement schedule III (collectively, the consolidated financial statements), and our report dated February 10, 2020 expressed an
unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.
 
Basis for Opinion
 
We have audited Prologis, Inc.’s and subsidiaries’ (the Company) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on
criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2019, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
  
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the
consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the related consolidated statements of income,
comprehensive income, equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2019, and the related notes
and financial statement schedule III (collectively, the consolidated financial statements), and our report dated February 10, 2020 expressed an
unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.
 
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or
that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
/s/ KPMG LLP
 
Denver, Colorado
February 10, 2020
 
 
49
 
PROLOGIS, INC.
 
CONSOLIDA TED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands, except per share data)
 
 December 31,  
 2019   2018  
ASSETS        
Investments in real estate properties $35,224,414  $34,586,987 
Less accumulated depreciation  5,437,662   4,656,680 
Net investments in real estate properties  29,786,752   29,930,307 
Investments in and advances to unconsolidated entities  6,237,371   5,745,294 
Assets held for sale or contribution  720,685   622,288 
Net investments in real estate  36,744,808   36,297,889 
        
Lease right-of-use assets  486,330   - 
Cash and cash equivalents  1,088,855   343,856 
Other assets  1,711,857   1,775,919 
Total assets $40,031,850  $38,417,664 
        
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY        
Liabilities:        
Debt $11,905,877  $11,089,815 
Lease liabilities  471,634   - 
Accounts payable and accrued expenses  704,954   760,515 
Other liabilities  877,601   766,446 
Total liabilities  13,960,066   12,616,776 
        
Equity:        
Prologis, Inc. stockholders’ equity:        
Series Q preferred stock at stated liquidation preference of $50 per share; $0.01 par value; 1,379
     shares issued and outstanding and 100,000 preferred shares authorized at December 31, 2019 and
     2018  68,948   68,948 
Common stock; $0.01 par value; 631,797 and 629,616 shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2019
     and 2018, respectively  6,318   6,296 
Additional paid-in capital  25,719,427   25,685,987 
Accumulated other comprehensive loss  (990,398)  (1,084,671)
Distributions in excess of net earnings  (2,151,168)  (2,378,467)
Total Prologis, Inc. stockholders’ equity  22,653,127   22,298,093 
Noncontrolling interests  3,418,657   3,502,795 
Total equity  26,071,784   25,800,888 
Total liabilities and equity $40,031,850  $38,417,664
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
50
 
PROLOGIS, INC.
 
CONSOLIDA TED ST ATEMENTS OF INCOME
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
  Years Ended December 31,  
  2019   2018   2017  
Revenues:             
Rental  $2,831,818  $2,388,791  $2,225,141 
Strategic capital   491,886   406,300   373,889 
Development management and other   6,917   9,358   19,104 
Total revenues   3,330,621   2,804,449   2,618,134 
Expenses:             
Rental   734,266   600,648   569,523 
Strategic capital   184,661   157,040   155,141 
General and administrative   266,718   238,985   231,059 
Depreciation and amortization   1,139,879   947,214   879,140 
Other   13,149   13,560   12,205 
Total expenses   2,338,673   1,957,447   1,847,068 
             
Operating income before gains on real estate transactions, net   991,948   847,002   771,066 
Gains on dispositions of development properties and land, net   467,577   469,817   327,528 
Gains on other dispositions of investments in real estate, net   390,241   371,179   855,437 
Operating income   1,849,766   1,687,998   1,954,031 
             
Other income (expense):             
Earnings from unconsolidated entities, net   200,178   298,260   248,567 
Interest expense   (239,953)  (229,141)  (274,486)
Interest and other income, net   24,213   14,663   13,731 
Foreign currency and derivative gains (losses), net   (41,715)  117,096   (57,896)
Losses on early extinguishment of debt, net   (16,126)  (2,586)  (68,379)
Total other income (expense)   (73,403)  198,292   (138,463)
Earnings before income taxes   1,776,363   1,886,290   1,815,568 
Total income tax expense   74,517   63,330   54,609 
Consolidated net earnings   1,701,846   1,822,960   1,760,959 
Less net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests   128,887   173,599   108,634 
Net earnings attributable to controlling interests   1,572,959   1,649,361   1,652,325 
Less preferred stock dividends   6,009   5,935   6,499 
Loss on preferred stock repurchase   -   -   3,895 
Net earnings attributable to common stockholders  $1,566,950  $1,643,426  $1,641,931 
             
Weighted average common shares outstanding – Basic   630,580   567,367   530,400 
Weighted average common shares outstanding – Diluted   654,903   590,239   552,300 
             
Net earnings per share attributable to common stockholders – Basic  $ 2.48  $ 2.90  $ 3.10 
             
Net earnings per share attributable to common stockholders – Diluted  $ 2.46  $ 2.87  $ 3.06
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
 
51
 
PROLOGIS, INC.
 
CONSOLIDA TED ST ATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(In thousands )
 
  Years Ended December 31,  
  2019   2018   2017  
Consolidated net earnings  $ 1,701,846  $ 1,822,960  $ 1,760,959 
Other comprehensive income (loss):             
Foreign currency translation gains (losses), net   98,482   (190,590)  63,455 
Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative contracts, net   (1,335)  (1,323)  22,591 
Comprehensive income   1,798,993   1,631,047   1,847,005 
Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests   (128,887)  (173,599)  (108,634)
Other comprehensive loss (income) attributable to noncontrolling interests   (2,874)  8,900   (50,231)
Comprehensive income attributable to common stockholders  $ 1,667,232  $ 1,466,348  $ 1,688,140
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
52
 
PROLOGIS, INC.
CONSOLIDA TED ST ATEMENTS OF EQUITY
(In thousands)
 
     Common Stock      Accumulated  Distributions         
     Number      Additional  Other   in Excess of  Non-     
 Preferred  of   Par  Paid-in  Comprehensive  Net   controlling  Total 
 Stock  Shares  Value  Capital  Income (Loss)  Earnings  Interests  Equity 
Balance at January 1, 2017 $78,235   528,671  $5,287  $19,455,039  $ (937,473) $(3,610,007) $3,467,059  $18,458,140 
Consolidated net earnings  -   -   -   -   -   1,652,325   108,634   1,760,959 
Effect of equity compensation
plans  -   2,000   20   74,506   -   -   41,446   115,972 
Capital contributions  -   -   -   -   -   -   254,214   254,214 
Repurchase of preferred stock (9,287)  -   -   -   -   (3,895)  -   (13,182)
Purchase of noncontrolling
interests  -   -   -   (202,040)  -   -   (611,807)  (813,847)
Conversion of noncontrolling
interests  -   1,515   15   47,711   -   -   (47,726)  - 
Foreign currency translation
gains, net  -   -   -   -   13,810   -   49,645   63,455 
Unrealized gains on derivative
     contracts, net  -   -   -   -   22,005   -   586   22,591 
Reallocation of equity  -   -   -   (12,143)  -   -   12,143   - 
Dividends ($1.76 per common
share)
     and other distributions  -   -   -   (66)  -   (942,884)  (199,611)  (1,142,561)
Balance at December 31, 2017$68,948   532,186  $5,322  $19,363,007  $ (901,658) $(2,904,461) $3,074,583  $18,705,741 
Consolidated net earnings  -   -   -   -   -   1,649,361   173,599   1,822,960 
Effect of equity compensation
plans  -   1,251   12   33,544   -   -   52,219   85,775 
DCT Transaction, net of issuance
     costs  -   96,179   962   6,321,667   -   -   298,092   6,620,721 
Capital contributions  -   -   -   -   -   -   181,866   181,866 
Redemption of noncontrolling
interests  -   -   -   (11,257)  -   -   (64,663)  (75,920)
Foreign currency translation
     losses, net  -   -   -   -   (181,728)  -   (8,862)  (190,590)
Unrealized losses on derivative
     contracts, net  -   -   -   -   (1,285)  -   (38)  (1,323)
Reallocation of equity  -   -   -   (20,849)  -   -   20,849   - 
Dividends ($1.92 per common
share)
     and other distributions  -   -   -   (125)  -   (1,123,367)  (224,850)  (1,348,342)
Balance at December 31, 2018$68,948   629,616  $6,296  $25,685,987  $ (1,084,671) $(2,378,467) $3,502,795  $25,800,888 
Consolidated net earnings  -   -   -   -   -   1,572,959   128,887   1,701,846 
Effect of equity compensation
plans  -   961   10   37,008   -   -   67,691   104,709 
Capital contributions  -   -   -   -   -   -   11,604   11,604 
Purchase of noncontrolling
interests  -   -   -   2,133   -   -   (15,383)  (13,250)
Redemption of noncontrolling
interests  -   1,220   12   32,878   -   -   (141,323)  (108,433)
Contribution to Brazil venture  -   -   -   -   -   -   (12,630)  (12,630)
Foreign currency translation
     gains, net  -   -   -   -   95,572   -   2,910   98,482 
Unrealized losses on derivative
     contracts, net  -   -   -   -   (1,299)  -   (36)  (1,335)
Reallocation of equity  -   -   -   (38,561)  -   -   38,561   - 
Dividends ($2.12 per common
share)
     and other distributions  -   -   -   (18)  -   (1,345,660)  (164,419)  (1,510,097)
Balance at December 31, 2019$68,948   631,797  $6,318  $25,719,427  $ (990,398) $(2,151,168) $3,418,657  $26,071,784
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
53
 
PROLOGIS, INC.
 
CONSOLIDA TED ST ATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In thousands)
 
  Years Ended December 31,  
  2019   2018   2017  
Operating activities:             
Consolidated net earnings  $1,701,846  $1,822,960  $1,760,959 
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided by operating activities:             
Straight-lined rents and amortization of above and below market leases   (98,426)  (66,938)  (81,021)
Equity-based compensation awards   97,557   76,093   76,640 
Depreciation and amortization   1,139,879   947,214   879,140 
Earnings from unconsolidated entities, net   (200,178)  (298,260)  (248,567)
Operating distributions from unconsolidated entities   346,517   349,877   307,220 
Decrease (increase) in operating receivables from unconsolidated entities   11,557   (39,890)  (30,893)
Amortization of debt discounts and debt issuance costs, net   17,006   12,653   751 
Gains on dispositions of development properties and land, net   (467,577)  (469,817)  (327,528)
Gains on other dispositions of investments in real estate, net   (390,241)  (371,179)  (855,437)
Unrealized foreign currency and derivative losses (gains), net   70,693   (120,358)  68,956 
Losses on early extinguishment of debt, net   16,126   2,586   68,379 
Deferred income tax expense (benefit)   12,221   1,448   (5,005)
Decrease (increase) in accounts receivable, lease right-of-use assets and other assets   (108,165)  (72,955)  37,278 
Increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses, lease liabilities and other liabilities   115,219   30,125   36,374 
Net cash provided by operating activities   2,264,034   1,803,559   1,687,246 
Investing activities:             
Real estate development   (1,795,137)  (1,953,144)  (1,606,133)
DCT Transaction, net of cash acquired   -   (45,870)  - 
Real estate acquisitions   (1,006,043)  (999,131)  (442,696)
Tenant improvements and lease commissions on previously leased space   (179,274)  (134,868)  (153,255)
Property improvements   (143,029)  (93,073)  (110,635)
Proceeds from dispositions and contributions of real estate properties   2,331,623   2,310,388   3,236,603 
Investments in and advances to unconsolidated entities   (276,169)  (160,358)  (249,735)
Acquisition of a controlling interest in unconsolidated entities, net of cash received   -   -   (374,605)
Return of investment from unconsolidated entities   389,463   360,278   209,151 
Proceeds from repayment of notes receivable backed by real estate   -   34,260   32,100 
Proceeds from the settlement of net investment hedges   23,640   29,425   7,541 
Payments on the settlement of net investment hedges   (30,424)  (11,703)  (5,058)
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities   (685,350)  (663,796)  543,278 
Financing activities:             
Proceeds from issuance of common stock   6,082   6,891   32,858 
Dividends paid on common and preferred stock   (1,345,660)  (1,123,367)  (942,884)
Repurchase of preferred stock   -   -   (13,182)
Noncontrolling interests contributions   11,604   170,066   240,925 
Noncontrolling interests distributions   (164,419)  (224,850)  (207,788)
Settlement of noncontrolling interests   (109,811)  (75,920)  (813,847)
Tax paid for shares withheld   (22,434)  (26,508)  (19,775)
Debt and equity issuance costs paid   (17,656)  (17,446)  (7,054)
Net proceeds from (payments on) credit facilities   127,566   (674,559)  283,255 
Repurchase of and payments on debt   (3,301,827)  (4,166,088)  (3,578,889)
Proceeds from the issuance of debt   3,976,956   4,899,680   2,419,797 
Net cash used in financing activities   (839,599)  (1,232,101)  (2,606,584)
             
Effect of foreign currency exchange rate changes on cash   5,914   (10,852)  15,790 
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents   744,999   (103,190)  (360,270)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year   343,856   447,046   807,316 
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year  $1,088,855  $343,856  $447,046
 
 
See Note 18 for information on noncash investing and financing activities and other information.
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
54
 
PROLOGIS, L.P .
 
CONSOLIDA TED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands)
 
 December 31,  
 2019   2018  
ASSETS        
Investments in real estate properties $ 35,224,414  $ 34,586,987 
Less accumulated depreciation  5,437,662   4,656,680 
Net investments in real estate properties  29,786,752   29,930,307 
Investments in and advances to unconsolidated entities  6,237,371   5,745,294 
Assets held for sale or contribution  720,685   622,288 
Net investments in real estate  36,744,808   36,297,889 
        
Lease right-of-use assets  486,330   - 
Cash and cash equivalents  1,088,855   343,856 
Other assets  1,711,857   1,775,919 
Total assets $ 40,031,850  $ 38,417,664 
        
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL        
Liabilities:        
Debt $ 11,905,877  $ 11,089,815 
Lease liabilities  471,634   - 
Accounts payable and accrued expenses  704,954   760,515 
Other liabilities  877,601   766,446 
Total liabilities  13,960,066   12,616,776 
        
Capital:        
Partners’ capital:        
General partner – preferred  68,948   68,948 
General partner – common  22,584,179   22,229,145 
Limited partners – common  355,076   371,281 
Limited partners – Class A common  288,187   295,045 
Total partners’ capital  23,296,390   22,964,419 
Noncontrolling interests  2,775,394   2,836,469 
Total capital  26,071,784   25,800,888 
Total liabilities and capital $ 40,031,850  $ 38,417,664
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
55
 
PROLOGIS, L.P .
 
CONSOLIDA TED ST ATEMENTS OF INCOME
(In thousands, except per unit amounts)
 
  Years Ended December 31,  
  2019   2018   2017  
Revenues:             
Rental  $2,831,818  $2,388,791  $2,225,141 
Strategic capital   491,886   406,300   373,889 
Development management and other   6,917   9,358   19,104 
Total revenues   3,330,621   2,804,449   2,618,134 
Expenses:             
Rental   734,266   600,648   569,523 
Strategic capital   184,661   157,040   155,141 
General and administrative   266,718   238,985   231,059 
Depreciation and amortization   1,139,879   947,214   879,140 
Other   13,149   13,560   12,205 
Total expenses   2,338,673   1,957,447   1,847,068 
             
Operating income before gains on real estate transactions, net   991,948   847,002   771,066 
Gains on dispositions of development properties and land, net   467,577   469,817   327,528 
Gains on other dispositions of investments in real estate, net   390,241   371,179   855,437 
Operating income   1,849,766   1,687,998   1,954,031 
             
Other income (expense):             
Earnings from unconsolidated entities, net   200,178   298,260   248,567 
Interest expense   (239,953)  (229,141)  (274,486)
Interest and other income, net   24,213   14,663   13,731 
Foreign currency and derivative gains (losses), net   (41,715)  117,096   (57,896)
Losses on early extinguishment of debt, net   (16,126)  (2,586)  (68,379)
Total other income (expense)   (73,403)  198,292   (138,463)
Earnings before income taxes   1,776,363   1,886,290   1,815,568 
Total income tax expense   74,517   63,330   54,609 
Consolidated net earnings   1,701,846   1,822,960   1,760,959 
Less net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests   82,222   124,712   63,620 
Net earnings attributable to controlling interests   1,619,624   1,698,248   1,697,339 
Less preferred unit distributions   6,009   5,935   6,499 
Loss on preferred unit repurchase   -   -   3,895 
Net earnings attributable to common unitholders  $1,613,615  $1,692,313  $1,686,945 
             
Weighted average common units outstanding – Basic   641,128   575,798   536,335 
Weighted average common units outstanding – Diluted   654,903   590,239   552,300 
             
Net earnings per unit attributable to common unitholders – Basic  $ 2.48  $ 2.90  $ 3.10 
             
Net earnings per unit attributable to common unitholders – Diluted  $ 2.46  $ 2.87  $ 3.06
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
 
56
 
PROLOGIS, L.P .
 
CONSOLIDA TED ST ATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(In thousands)
 
  Years Ended December 31,  
  2019   2018   2017  
Consolidated net earnings  $ 1,701,846  $ 1,822,960  $ 1,760,959 
Other comprehensive income (loss):             
Foreign currency translation gains (losses), net   98,482   (190,590)  63,455 
Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative contracts, net   (1,335)  (1,323)  22,591 
Comprehensive income   1,798,993   1,631,047   1,847,005 
Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests   (82,222)  (124,712)  (63,620)
Other comprehensive loss (income) attributable to noncontrolling interests   (188)  3,416   (49,278)
Comprehensive income attributable to common unitholders  $ 1,716,583  $ 1,509,751  $ 1,734,107
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
57
 
 
PROLOGIS, L.P .
 
CONSOLIDA TED ST ATEMENTS OF CAPIT AL
(In thousands)
 
 General Partner   Limited Partners          
 Preferred   Common   Common   Class A Common  Non-
controlling     
 Units  Amount  Units  Amount  Units  Amount  Units  Amount  Interests  Total 
Balance at January 1, 2017 1,565  $78,235   528,671  $14,912,846   5,323  $150,173   8,894  $244,417  $3,072,469  $18,458,140 
Consolidated net earnings -   -   -   1,652,325   -   18,372   -   26,642   63,620   1,760,959 
Effect of equity
compensation plans  -   -   2,000   74,526   1,386   41,446   -   -   -   115,972 
Capital contributions  -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   254,214   254,214 
Repurchase of preferred
units  (186)  (9,287)  -   (3,895)  -   -   -   -   -   (13,182)
Purchase of noncontrolling
interests  -   -   -   (202,040)  -   -   -   -   (587,976)  (790,016)
Redemption of limited
partnership units  -   -   -   -   (369)  (23,831)  -   -   -   (23,831)
Conversion of limited
partners units  -   -   1,515   47,726   (684)  (18,753)  -   -   (28,973)  - 
Foreign currency translation
gains, net  -   -   -   13,810   -   146   -   221   49,278   63,455 
Unrealized gains on
derivative contracts, net  -   -   -   22,005   -   234   -   352   -   22,591 
Reallocation of capital  -   -   -   (12,143)  -   11,829   -   314   -   - 
Distributions ($1.76 per
common unit)
     and other  -   -   -   (942,950)  -   (14,215)  -   (23,006)  (162,390)  (1,142,561)
Balance at December 31,
2017  1,379  $68,948   532,186  $15,562,210   5,656  $165,401   8,894  $248,940  $2,660,242  $18,705,741 
Consolidated net earnings -   -   -   1,649,361   -   24,422   -   24,465   124,712   1,822,960 
Effect of equity
compensation plans  -   -   1,251   33,556   2,087   52,219   -   -   -   85,775 
DCT Transaction, net of
issuance costs  -   -   96,179   6,322,629   3,551   233,472   -   -   64,620   6,620,721 
Capital contributions  -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   181,866   181,866 
Repurchase of preferred
units  -   -   -   (11,257)  -   -   -   -   (11,471)  (22,728)
Redemption of limited
partnership units  -   -   -   -   (778)  (50,390)  (45)  (2,802)  -   (53,192)
Foreign currency translation
losses, net  -   -   -   (181,728)  -   (3,035)  -   (2,411)  (3,416)  (190,590)
Unrealized losses on
derivative
     contracts, net  -   -   -   (1,285)  -   (21)  -   (17)  -   (1,323)
Reallocation of capital  -   -   -   (20,849)  -   (28,969)  -   49,818   -   - 
Distributions ($1.92 per
common unit)
     and other  -   -   -   (1,123,492)  -   (21,818)  -   (22,948)  (180,084)  (1,348,342)
Balance at December 31,
2018  1,379  $68,948   629,616  $22,229,145   10,516  $371,281   8,849  $295,045  $2,836,469  $25,800,888 
Consolidated net earnings -   -   -   1,572,959   -   26,211   -   20,454   82,222   1,701,846 
Effect of equity
compensation plans  -   -   961   37,018   1,525   67,691   -   -   -   104,709 
Capital contributions  -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   11,604   11,604 
Purchase of noncontrolling
interests  -   -   -   2,133   -   -   -   -   (15,383)  (13,250)
Redemption of
noncontrolling interests  -   -   -   (8,045)  -   -   -   -   (13,048)  (21,093)
Redemption of limited
partnership units  -   -   1,220   40,935   (2,108)  (120,387)  (236)  (7,888)  -   (87,340)
Contribution to Brazil venture -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   (12,630)  (12,630)
Foreign currency translation
gains, net  -   -   -   95,572   -   1,502   -   1,220   188   98,482 
Unrealized losses on
derivative
     contracts, net  -   -   -   (1,299)  -   (19)  -   (17)  -   (1,335)
Reallocation of capital  -   -   -   (38,561)  -   36,603   -   1,958   -   - 
Distributions ($2.12 per
common unit)
     and other  -   -   -   (1,345,678)  -   (27,806)  -   (22,585)  (114,028)  (1,510,097)
Balance at December 31,
2019  1,379  $68,948   631,797  $22,584,179   9,933  $355,076   8,613  $288,187  $2,775,394  $26,071,784
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
58
 
PROLOGIS, L.P
 
CONSOLIDA TED ST ATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In thousands)
 
  Years Ended December 31,  
  2019   2018   2017  
Operating activities:             
Consolidated net earnings  $1,701,846  $1,822,960  $1,760,959 
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided by operating activities:             
Straight-lined rents and amortization of above and below market leases   (98,426)  (66,938)  (81,021)
Equity-based compensation awards   97,557   76,093   76,640 
Depreciation and amortization   1,139,879   947,214   879,140 
Earnings from unconsolidated entities, net   (200,178)  (298,260)  (248,567)
Operating distributions from unconsolidated entities   346,517   349,877   307,220 
Decrease (increase) in operating receivables from unconsolidated entities   11,557   (39,890)  (30,893)
Amortization of debt discounts and debt issuance costs, net   17,006   12,653   751 
Gains on dispositions of development properties and land, net   (467,577)  (469,817)  (327,528)
Gains on other dispositions of investments in real estate, net   (390,241)  (371,179)  (855,437)
Unrealized foreign currency and derivative losses (gains), net   70,693   (120,358)  68,956 
Losses on early extinguishment of debt, net   16,126   2,586   68,379 
Deferred income tax expense (benefit)   12,221   1,448   (5,005)
Decrease (increase) in accounts receivable, lease right-of-use assets and other assets   (108,165)  (72,955)  37,278 
Increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses, lease liabilities and other liabilities   115,219   30,125   36,374 
Net cash provided by operating activities   2,264,034   1,803,559   1,687,246 
Investing activities:             
Real estate development   (1,795,137)  (1,953,144)  (1,606,133)
DCT Transaction, net of cash acquired   -   (45,870)  - 
Real estate acquisitions   (1,006,043)  (999,131)  (442,696)
Tenant improvements and lease commissions on previously leased space   (179,274)  (134,868)  (153,255)
Property improvements   (143,029)  (93,073)  (110,635)
Proceeds from dispositions and contributions of real estate properties   2,331,623   2,310,388   3,236,603 
Investments in and advances to unconsolidated entities   (276,169)  (160,358)  (249,735)
Acquisition of a controlling interest in unconsolidated entities, net of cash received   -   -   (374,605)
Return of investment from unconsolidated entities   389,463   360,278   209,151 
Proceeds from repayment of notes receivable backed by real estate   -   34,260   32,100 
Proceeds from the settlement of net investment hedges   23,640   29,425   7,541 
Payments on the settlement of net investment hedges   (30,424)  (11,703)  (5,058)
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities   (685,350)  (663,796)  543,278 
Financing activities:             
Proceeds from issuance of common partnership units in exchange for contributions from
     Prologis, Inc.   6,082   6,891   32,858 
Distributions paid on common and preferred units   (1,396,051)  (1,168,133)  (980,105)
Repurchase of preferred units   -   -   (13,182)
Noncontrolling interests contributions   11,604   170,066   240,925 
Noncontrolling interests distributions   (114,028)  (180,084)  (170,567)
Settlement of noncontrolling interests   (22,471)  (22,728)  (790,016)
Redemption of common limited partnership units   (87,340)  (53,192)  (23,831)
Tax paid for shares of the Parent withheld   (22,434)  (26,508)  (19,775)
Debt and equity issuance costs paid   (17,656)  (17,446)  (7,054)
Net proceeds from (payments on) credit facilities   127,566   (674,559)  283,255 
Repurchase of and payments on debt   (3,301,827)  (4,166,088)  (3,578,889)
Proceeds from the issuance of debt   3,976,956   4,899,680   2,419,797 
Net cash used in financing activities   (839,599)  (1,232,101)  (2,606,584)
             
Effect of foreign currency exchange rate changes on cash   5,914   (10,852)  15,790 
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents   744,999   (103,190)  (360,270)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year   343,856   447,046   807,316 
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year  $1,088,855  $343,856  $447,046
 
 
See Note 18 for information on noncash investing and financing activities and other information.
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
59
 
PROLOGIS, INC. AND PROLOGIS, L.P .
NOTES T O THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS
 
NOTE 1. DESCRIPTION OF THE BUSINESS
 
Prologis, Inc. (or the “Parent”) commenced operations as a fully integrated real estate company in 1997, elected to be taxed as a real
estate investment trust (“REIT”) under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code” or “IRC”), and
believes the current organization and method of operation will enable it to maintain its status as a REIT . The Parent is the general
partner of Prologis, L.P . (or the “Operating Partnership” or “OP”). Through the OP , we are engaged in the ownership, acquisition,
development and management of logistics facilities with a focus on key markets in 19 countries on four continents. W e invest in real
estate through wholly owned subsidiaries and other entities through which we co-invest with partners and investors. W e maintain a
significant level of ownership in these co-investment ventures, which may be consolidated or unconsolidated based on our level of
control of the entity . Our current business strategy consists of two operating business segments: Real Estate Operations and Strategic
Capital. Our Real Estate Operations segment represents the ownership and development of logistics properties. Our Strategic Capital
segment represents the management of unconsolidated co-investment ventures and other ventures. See Note 17 for further
discussion of our business segments. Unless otherwise indicated, the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements apply to both
the Parent and the OP . The terms “the Company ,” “Prologis,” “we,” “our” or “us” means the Parent and OP  collectively .
 
For each share of preferred or common stock the Parent issues, the OP  issues a corresponding preferred or common partnership
unit, as applicable, to the Parent in exchange for the contribution of the proceeds from the stock issuance. At December 31, 2019, the
Parent owned a 97.23 % common general partnership interest in the OP  and 100% of the preferred units in the OP . The remaining
2.77% common limited partnership interests, which include 8.6 million Class A common limited partnership units (“Class A Units”) in
the OP , are owned by unaf filiated investors and certain current and former directors and of ficers of the Parent. Each partner ’s
percentage interest in the OP  is determined based on the number of OP  units held, including the number of OP  units into which Class
A Units are convertible, compared to total OP  units outstanding at each period end and is used as the basis for the allocation of net
income or loss to each partner . At the end of each reporting period, a capital adjustment is made in the OP  to reflect the appropriate
ownership interest for each of the common unitholders. These adjustments are reflected in the line items Reallocation of Equity  in the
Consolidated Statements of Equity of the Parent and Reallocation of Capital  in the Consolidated Statements of Capital of the OP .
 
As the sole general partner of the OP , the Parent has complete responsibility and discretion in the day-to-day management and
control of the OP  and we operate the Parent and the OP  as one enterprise. The management of the Parent consists of the same
members as the management of the OP . These members are of ficers of the Parent and employees of the OP  or one of its
subsidiaries. As general partner with control of the OP , the Parent is the primary beneficiary and therefore consolidates the OP .
Because the Parent’ s only significant asset is its investment in the OP , the assets and liabilities of the Parent and the OP  are the same
on their respective financial statements.
 
Information with respect to the square footage, number of buildings and acres of land is unaudited.
 
NOTE 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
Basis of Presentation.  The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with United States
(“U.S.”) generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and are presented in our reporting currency , the U.S. dollar . All material
intercompany transactions with consolidated entities have been eliminated.
 
Consolidation. We consolidate all entities that are wholly owned and those in which we own less than 100% of the equity  but control,
as well as any variable interest entities (“VIEs”) in which we are the primary beneficiary . We evaluate our ability to control an entity and
whether the entity is a VIE and we are the primary beneficiary through consideration of substantive terms of the arrangement to
identify which enterprise has the power to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entity’ s economic
performance and the obligation to absorb losses and the right to receive benefits from the entity .
 
For entities that are not defined as VIEs, we first consider whether we are the general partner or the limited partner (or the equivalent
in such investments that are not structured as partnerships). W e consolidate entities in which we are the general partner and the
limited partners in such entities do not have rights that would preclude control. For entities in which we are the general partner but do
not control the entity as the other partners hold substantive participating or kick-out rights, we apply the equity method of accounting
since, as the general partner , we have the ability to exercise significant influence over the operating and financial policies of the
venture. For ventures for which we are a limited partner , or our investment is in an entity that is not structured similar to a partnership,
we consider factors such as ownership interest, voting control, authority to make decisions and contractual and substantive
participating rights of the partners. In instances where the factors indicate that we have a controlling financial interest in the venture,
we consolidate the entity .
 
Reclassifications. Upon adoption of the new lease standard, as detailed below , rental recoveries for 2017 and 2018 have been
reclassified to Rental Revenues in the Consolidated Statements of Income to conform to the 2019 financial statement presentation.
 
Use of Estimates.  GAAP  requires us to make estimates and assumptions that af fect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and revenues and expenses during the reporting
period. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we made are reasonable and appropriate, as discussed in the applicable
60
 
sections throughout the Consolidated Financial Statements, dif ferent assumptions and estimates could materially impact our reported
results.
 
Foreign Operations.  The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for our consolidated subsidiaries and unconsolidated entities operating
in the U.S. and Mexico and certain of our consolidated subsidiaries that operate as holding companies for foreign investments. The
functional currency for our consolidated subsidiaries and unconsolidated entities operating in other countries is the principal currency
in which the entity’ s assets, liabilities, income and expenses are denominated, which may be dif ferent from the local currency of the
country of incorporation or where the entity conducts its operations. The functional currencies of entities outside of the U.S. and
Mexico generally include the Brazilian real, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar , Chinese renminbi, euro, Japanese yen, Singapore
dollar and Swedish krona. W e take part in business transactions denominated in these and other local currencies where we operate.
 
For our consolidated subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar , we translate their financial statements into the
U.S. dollar at the time we consolidate those subsidiaries’  financial statements. Generally , assets and liabilities are translated at the
exchange rate in ef fect at the balance sheet date. The resulting translation adjustments are included in Accumulated Other
Comprehensive Income (Loss) (“AOCI/L ”) in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Certain balance sheet items, primarily equity and
capital-related accounts, are reflected at the historical exchange rate. Income statement accounts are translated using the average
exchange rate for the period and income statement accounts that represent significant nonrecurring transactions are translated at the
rate in ef fect at the date of the transaction. W e translate our share of the net income or loss of our unconsolidated entities at the
average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions of the unconsolidated entities are translated at the rate
in effect at the date of the transaction.
 
We and certain of our consolidated subsidiaries have intercompany and third-party debt that is not denominated in the entity’ s
functional currency . When the debt is remeasured against the functional currency of the entity , a gain or loss can result. The resulting
adjustment is reflected in Foreign Currency and Derivative Gains (Losses), Net  in the Consolidated Statements of Income, unless it is
intercompany debt that is deemed to be long-term in nature or third-party debt that has been designated as a nonderivative net
investment hedge and then the adjustment is reflected as a cumulative translation adjustment in AOCI/L .
 
Acquisitions.  We apply a screen test to evaluate if substantially all the fair value of the acquired property is concentrated in a single
identifiable asset or group of similar identifiable assets to determine whether a transaction is accounted for as an asset acquisition or
business combination. As most of our real estate acquisitions are concentrated in either a single or a group of similar identifiable
assets, our real estate transactions are generally accounted for as asset acquisitions, which permits the capitalization of transaction
costs to the basis of the acquired property . We measure the real estate assets acquired through an asset acquisition based on their
cost or total consideration exchanged and any excess consideration or bargain purchase amount is allocated to the real estate
properties, excluding those identified as held for sale, on a relative fair value basis . Other monetary assets acquired and liabilities
assumed, including debt, are recorded at fair value. Purchase price allocations for a business combination are recorded at fair value.
 
When we obtain control of an unconsolidated entity and the acquisition qualifies as a business combination, we account for the
acquisition in accordance with the guidance for a business combination achieved in stages. W e remeasure our previously held
interest in the unconsolidated entity at its acquisition-date fair value and recognize any resulting gain or loss in earnings.
 
We allocate the purchase price using primarily Level 2 and Level 3 inputs (further defined in Fair V alue Measurements below) as
follows:
 
Investments in Real Estate Properties.  We value operating properties as if vacant. W e estimate fair value by applying an income
approach methodology using either a discounted cash flow analysis or applying a capitalization rate to the estimated Net Operating
Income (“NOI”) of a property . Key assumptions include market rents, growth rates, and discount and capitalization rates. Estimates of
future cash flows are based on a number of factors including historical operating results, known trends and market and economic
conditions. W e determine the discount or capitalization rate by market based on recent transactions and other market data. The fair
value of land is generally based on relevant market data, such as a comparison of the subject site to similar parcels that have recently
been sold or are currently being of fered on the market for sale.
 
Lease Intangibles . We determine the portion of the purchase price related to intangible assets and liabilities as follows:
 
•Above and Below Market Leases . We recognize an asset or liability for acquired in-place leases with favorable or unfavorable
rents based on our estimate of current market rents of the applicable markets. The value is recorded in either Other Assets  or
Other Liabilities , as appropriate, and is amortized over the term of the respective leases, including any bargain renewal options,
to rental revenues.
 
•Foregone Rent . We calculate the value of the revenue and recovery of costs foregone during a reasonable lease-up period, as if
the space was vacant, in each of the applicable markets. The values are recorded in Other Assets  and amortized over the
remaining life of the respective leases to amortization expense.
 
•Leasing Commissions.  We recognize an asset for leasing commissions upon the acquisition of in-place leases based on our
estimate of the cost to lease space in the applicable markets. The value is recorded in Other Assets and amortized over the
remaining life of the respective leases to amortization expense.
 
61
 
Debt . We estimate the fair value of debt based on contractual future cash flows discounted using borrowing spreads and market
interest rates that would be available to us for the issuance of debt with similar terms and remaining maturities. In the case of publicly
traded debt, we estimate the fair value based on available market data. Any discount or premium to the principal amount is included in
the carrying value and amortized to interest expense over the remaining term of the related debt using the ef fective interest method.
 
Noncontrolling Interests . We estimate the portion of the fair value of the net assets owned by third parties based on the fair value of
the consolidated net assets, principally real estate properties and debt.
 
Working Capital . We estimate the fair value of other acquired assets and assumed liabilities on the best information available.
 
Fair V alue Measurements.  The objective of fair value is to determine the price that would be received on the sale of an asset or paid
to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (the exit price). W e estimate fair
value using available market information and valuation methodologies we believe to be appropriate for these purposes. Considerable
judgment and a high degree of subjectivity are involved in developing these estimates and, accordingly , they are not necessarily
indicative of amounts that we would realize on disposition. The fair value hierarchy consists of three broad levels:
 
•Level 1 — Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the
measurement date.
 
•Level 2 — Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability , either directly or
indirectly .
 
•Level 3 — Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability .
 
Fair V alue Measurements on a Recurring Basis. We estimate the fair value of our financial instruments using available market
information and valuation methodologies we believe to be appropriate for these purposes.
 
We determine the fair value of our derivative financial instruments using widely accepted valuation techniques including discounted
cash flow analysis on the expected cash flows of each derivative. This analysis reflects the contractual terms of the derivatives,
including the period to maturity , and uses observable market-based inputs, including interest rate curves, foreign exchange rates and
implied volatilities. W e determine the fair values of our interest rate swaps using the market standard methodology of netting the
discounted future fixed cash receipts or payments and the discounted expected variable cash payments. W e base the variable cash
payments on an expectation of future interest rates, or forward curves, derived from observable market interest rate curves. W e base
the fair values of our net investment hedges on the change in the spot rate at the end of the period as compared with the strike price
at inception.
 
We incorporate credit valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect nonperformance risk for us and the respective counterparty in the
fair value measurements. In adjusting the fair value of our derivative contracts for the ef fect of nonperformance risk, we consider the
impact of netting and any applicable credit enhancements, such as collateral postings, thresholds, mutual puts and guarantees.
 
We have determined that the majority of the inputs used to value our derivatives fall within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy . Although
the credit valuation adjustments associated with our derivatives utilize Level 3 inputs, such as estimates of current credit spreads to
evaluate the likelihood of default by us and our counterparties, we assess the significance of the impact of the credit valuation
adjustments on the overall valuation of our derivative positions and have determined that the credit valuation adjustments are not
significant to the overall valuation of our derivatives.
 
Fair V alue Measurements on a Nonrecurring Basis. Assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis generally consist of real
estate assets and investments in unconsolidated entities that were subject to impairment charges related to our change of intent to
sell the investments and through our recoverability analysis discussed below . We estimate fair value based on expected sales prices
in the market (Level 2) or by applying the income approach methodology using a discounted cash flow analysis (Level 3).
 
Fair V alue of Financial Instruments. We estimate the fair value of our senior notes for disclosure purposes based on quoted market
prices for the same (Level 1) or similar (Level 2) issues when current quoted market prices are available. W e estimate the fair value of
our credit facilities, term loans, secured mortgage debt and assessment bonds by discounting the future cash flows using rates and
borrowing spreads currently available to us (Level 3).
 
Real Estate Assets.  Real estate assets are carried at depreciated cost. W e capitalize costs incurred in developing, renovating,
rehabilitating and improving real estate assets as part of the investment basis. W e expense costs for repairs and maintenance as
incurred.
 
Depreciation and Amortization. We charge the depreciable portions of real estate assets to depreciation expense on a straight-line
basis over the respective estimated useful lives. Depreciation on development buildings commences when the asset is ready for its
intended use, which we define as the earlier of stabilization ( 90% occupied) or one year after completion of construction.  We generally
use the following useful lives: 5 to 7 years  for capital improvements, 10 years for standard tenant improvements, 15 to 25 years  for
depreciable land improvements, 25 to 35 years  for operating properties acquired based on the age of the building and 40 years for
operating properties we develop. W e depreciate building improvements on land parcels subject to ground leases over the shorter of
the estimated life of the building improvement or the contractual term of the underlying ground lease. Capitalized leasing costs are
62
 
amortized over the estimated remaining lease term.  Our weighted ave rage lease term on leases commenced  during 201 9, based on
square feet for all leases, was 66 months .
 
Capitalization of Costs. During the land development and construction periods of qualifying projects, we capitalize interest costs,
insurance, real estate taxes and general and administrative costs of the personnel performing the development, renovation and
rehabilitation; if such costs are incremental and identifiable to a specific activity to ready the asset for its intended use. W e capitalize
transaction costs related to the acquisition of land for future development and operating properties that qualify as asset acquisitions.
We capitalize incremental costs incurred to successfully originate a lease that result directly from obtaining a lease and would not
have been incurred if the lease had not been obtained. With the adoption of the new lease standard on January 1, 2019, we no longer
capitalize internal costs related to our leasing activities. Amounts capitalized prior to adoption were not adjusted and continue to be
amortized in accordance with previously applicable guidance. Leasing costs that meet the requirements for capitalization are
presented as a component of Other Assets  and all other capitalized costs are included in the investment basis of the real estate
assets.
 
Recoverability of Real Estate Assets. We assess the carrying values of our respective real estate assets, whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be fully recoverable. W e measure the recoverability of
the asset by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the estimated future undiscounted cash flows. If our analysis indicates that
the carrying value of the real estate property is not recoverable on an undiscounted cash flow basis, we recognize an impairment
charge for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the current estimated fair value of the real estate property .
 
We estimate the future undiscounted cash flows and fair value based on our intent as follows:
 
•for real estate properties that we intend to hold long-term; including land held for development, properties currently under
development and operating properties; recoverability is assessed based on the estimated undiscounted future net rental income
from operating the property and the terminal value, including anticipated costs to develop;
 
•for real estate properties we intend to sell, including properties currently under development and operating properties;
recoverability is assessed based on proceeds from disposition that are estimated based on the future net rental income of the
property , expected market capitalization rates and anticipated costs to develop;
 
•for land parcels we intend to sell, recoverability is assessed based on the estimated proceeds from disposition; and
 
•for costs incurred related to the potential acquisition of land, operating properties or development of a real estate property ,
recoverability is assessed based on the probability that the acquisition or development is likely to occur at the measurement date.
 
Assets Held for Sale or Contribution.  We classify a property as held for sale or contribution when certain criteria are met in
accordance with GAAP . Assets classified as held for sale are expected to be sold to a third party and assets classified as held for
contribution are generally newly developed assets we intend to contribute to an unconsolidated co-investment venture within twelve
months. When the criteria are met, the respective assets and liabilities are presented separately in the Consolidated Balance Sheets
and depreciation is no longer recognized. Assets held for sale or contribution are reported at the lower of their carrying amount or their
estimated fair value less the costs to sell.
 
Investments in Unconsolidated Entities.  We present our investments in certain entities under the equity method. W e use the equity
method when we have the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies of the venture but do not have
control of the entity . Under the equity method, we initially recognize these investments (including advances) in the balance sheet at
our cost, including formation costs and net of deferred gains from the contribution of properties, if applicable. The transaction costs
related to the formation of equity method investments are also capitalized. W e subsequently adjust the accounts to reflect our
proportionate share of net earnings or losses recognized and accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, distributions
received, contributions made and certain other adjustments, as appropriate. When circumstances indicate there may have been a
reduction in the value of an equity investment, we evaluate whether the loss in value is other than temporary . If we conclude it is other
than temporary , we recognize an impairment charge to reflect the equity investment at fair value.
 
With regard to distributions from unconsolidated entities, we have elected the nature of distribution approach as the information is
available to us to determine the nature of the underlying activity that generated the distributions. In accordance with the nature of
distribution approach, cash flows generated from the operations of an unconsolidated entity are classified as a return on investment
(cash inflow from operating activities) and cash flows that are generated from property sales, debt refinancing or sales and
redemptions of our investments are classified as a return of investment (cash inflow from investing activities).
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents.  We consider all cash on hand, demand deposits with financial institutions and short-term highly liquid
investments with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Our cash and cash equivalents are financial
instruments that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk. W e invest our cash with high-credit quality institutions. Cash balances
may be invested in money market accounts that are not insured. W e have not realized any losses in such cash investments or
accounts and believe that we are not exposed to any significant credit risk.
 
Derivative Financial Instruments. We primarily hedge our foreign currency risk by borrowing in the currencies in which we invest.
Generally , we borrow in the functional currency of our consolidated subsidiaries. W e may use derivative financial instruments, such as
foreign currency forward and option contracts to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk related to both our foreign investments
63
 
and the related earnings. In addition, we occasionally use interest rate swap and forward contracts to manage interest rate risk and
limit the impact of future interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows, primarily with variable-rate debt.
 
We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Each derivative transaction is customized and not
exchange-traded. W e recognize all derivatives at fair value within the line items Other Assets  or Other Liabilities . We do not net our
derivative position by counterparty for purposes of balance sheet presentation and disclosure. Management reviews our derivative
positions, overall risk management strategy and hedging program, on a regular basis. W e only enter into transactions that we believe
will be highly ef fective at of fsetting the underlying risk. Our use of derivatives involves the risk that counterparties may default on a
derivative contract; therefore we: (i) establish exposure limits for each counterparty to minimize this risk and provide counterparty
diversification; (ii) contract with counterparties that have long-term credit ratings of single-A  or better; (iii) enter into master agreements
that generally allow for netting of certain exposures; thereby significantly reducing the actual loss that would be incurred should a
counterparty fail to perform its contractual obligations; and (iv) set minimum credit standards that become more stringent as the
duration of the derivative financial instrument increases. Based on these factors, we consider the risk of counterparty default to be
minimal.
 
Designated Derivatives. We may choose to designate our derivative financial instruments, generally foreign currency forwards as net
investment hedges in foreign operations or interest rate swaps or foreign currency forwards as cash flow hedges. At inception of the
transaction, we formally designate and document the derivative financial instrument as a hedge of a specific underlying exposure, the
risk management objective and the strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction. W e formally assess both at inception and at least
quarterly thereafter , the ef fectiveness of our hedging transactions. Due to the high degree of ef fectiveness between the hedging
instruments and the underlying exposures hedged, fluctuations in the value of the derivative financial instruments will generally be
offset by changes in the cash flows or fair values of the underlying exposures being hedged.
 
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as net investment hedges in foreign operations and cash flow
hedges are recorded in AOCI/L . For net investment hedges, these amounts of fset the translation adjustments on the underlying net
assets of our foreign investments, which we also record in AOCI/L . The inef fective portion of a derivative financial instrument's change
in fair value, if any , is immediately recognized in earnings within the line item Foreign Currency and Derivative Gains (Losses), Net in
the Consolidated Statements of Income. For cash flow hedges, we report the ef fective portion of the gain or loss as a component of
AOCI/ L and reclassify it to the applicable line item in the Consolidated Statements of Income, generally Interest Expense , over the
corresponding period of the underlying hedged item. The inef fective portion of a derivative financial instrument’ s change in fair value is
recognized in earnings, generally Interest Expense , at the time the inef fectiveness occurred. To the extent the hedged debt related to
our interest rate swaps and forwards is paid of f early , we write of f the remaining balance in AOCI/L  and recognize the amount in
Interest Expense  in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
 
In addition to the net investment hedges described above, we may issue debt in a currency that is not the same functional currency of
the borrowing entity to hedge our net investment in international entities. W e may designate the debt and related accrued interest as a
nonderivative net investment hedge to of fset the translation and economic exposures related to these entities. The foreign currency
movement on the portion of the debt and accrued interest that is hedged at period end is recognized as cumulative translation
adjustment in AOCI/L . If the debt and related accrued interest exceeds the net investment in these entities, the foreign currency
remeasurement on the unhedged portion of the debt during the period is recognized in Foreign Currency and Derivative Gains
(Losses), Net.
 
Undesignated Derivatives.  We also use derivatives, such as foreign currency forwards and option contracts, that are not designated
as hedges to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk related to the translation of our results of operations. The changes in fair
values of these derivatives that were not designated or did not qualify as hedging instruments are immediately recognized in earnings
within the line item Foreign Currency and Derivative Gains (Losses), Net . These gains or losses are generally of fset by lower or higher
earnings due to the translation at exchange rates that were dif ferent than our expectations.
 
In addition, we may choose to not designate our interest rate swap and forward contracts. If a swap or forward contract is not
designated as a hedge, the changes in fair value of these instruments is immediately recognized in earnings within the line item
Interest Expense  in the Consolidated Statements of Income .
 
Noncontrolling Interests.  Noncontrolling interests represent the share of consolidated entities owned by third parties. W e recognize
each noncontrolling holder ’s respective share of the estimated fair value of the net assets at the date of formation or acquisition.
Noncontrolling interests are subsequently adjusted for the noncontrolling holder ’s share of additional contributions, distributions and
their share of the net earnings or losses of each respective consolidated entity . We allocate net income to noncontrolling interests
based on the weighted average ownership interest during the period. The net income that is not attributable to us is reflected in the
line item Net Earnings Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests . We do not recognize a gain or loss on transactions with a consolidated
entity in which we do not own 100% of the equity , but we reflect the dif ference in cash received or paid from the noncontrolling
interests carrying amount as additional paid-in-capital .
 
Certain limited partnership interests, including OP  units, are exchangeable into our common stock. Common stock issued upon
exchange of a holder ’s noncontrolling interest is accounted for at the carrying value of the surrendered limited partnership interest and
the dif ference between the carrying value and the fair value of the common stock issued is recorded to additional paid-in-capital.
 
64
 
Revenue Recognition.
Rental Revenues and Recoveries.  We lease our operating properties to customers under agreements that are classified as operating
leases. W e recognize the total minimum lease payments provided for under the leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Generally , under the terms of our leases, the majority of our rental expenses are recovered from our customers, including common
area maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance. Rental expenses recovered through reimbursements received from customers are
recognized in Rental Revenues  in the Consolidated Statements of Income. W e record amounts reimbursed by our customers as
revenues in the period that the applicable expenses are incurred. As the timing and straight-line pattern of transfer to the lessee for
rental revenue and the associated rental recoveries are the same and our leases qualify as operating leases, we account for and
present rental revenue and rental recoveries as a single component under Rental Revenues . We perform credit analyses of our
customers prior to the execution of our leases and continue these analyses on an ongoing basis in order to ensure the collectability of
rental revenue. W e recognize revenue to the extent that amounts are determined to be collectible.
 
Strategic Capital Revenues.  Strategic capital revenues include revenues we earn from the management services we provide to
unconsolidated entities. These fees are determined in accordance with the terms specific to each arrangement and may include
recurring fees such as property and asset management fees or transactional fees for leasing, acquisition, development, construction,
financing, legal and tax services provided. W e recognize these fees as we provide the services or on a cost basis for development
fees.
 
We may also earn incentive returns (“promotes” or “promote revenues”) based on a venture’ s cumulative returns over a certain time-
period and the returns are determined by both the operating performance and real estate valuation of the venture, including highly
variable inputs such as capitalization rates, market rents, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. As these key inputs are
highly volatile and out of our control, and such volatility can materially impact our promotes period over period, we recognize promote
revenues at or near the end of the performance period. W e generally earn promote revenue directly from third-party investors in the
co-investment ventures and occasionally from the venture. W e include the third-party investors’  share of promotes in Strategic Capital
Revenues.
 
We also earn fees from ventures that we consolidate. Upon consolidation, these fees are eliminated from our earnings and the third-
party investors’  share of these fees are recognized as a reduction of Net Earnings Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests.
 
Development Management and Other Revenues. Development management and other revenues principally include development and
construction management fees recognized as we provide the services or on a cost basis.
 
Gains on Real Estate T ransactions, Net.
Throughout the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Gains on Real Estate T ransactions, Net collectively  refers to Gains
on Dispositions of Development Properties and Land, Net  and Gains on Other Dispositions of Investments in Real Estate, Net .
 
We recognize gains on the disposition of real estate when the recognition criteria have been met, generally at the time the risks and
rewards and title have transferred, and we no longer have substantial continuing involvement with the real estate sold. W e recognize
losses from the disposition of real estate when known.
 
Beginning January 1, 2018 with the adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance, we recognize the entire gain attributed to
contributions of real estate properties to unconsolidated entities. W e previously recognized a gain on contribution only to the extent of
the third-party ownership in the unconsolidated entity acquiring the property and deferred the portion of the gain related to our
ownership through a reduction to our investment in the applicable unconsolidated entity . We adjusted our proportionate share of net
earnings or losses recognized in future periods to reflect the entities’  recorded depreciation expense as if it were computed on our
lower basis in the contributed properties rather than on the entity’ s basis.  For deferred gains from partial sales recorded prior to the
adoption, we continue to recognize these gains over the lives of the underlying real estate properties or at the time of disposition to a
third party . If our ownership interest in an unconsolidated entity decreases and the decrease is expected to be permanent, we
recognize the amounts relating to previously deferred gains to coincide with our new ownership interest.
 
Gains on Dispositions of Development Properties and Land, Net.  We present gains separately based on the type of real estate sold or
contributed. W e present gains on sales to third parties or contributions to our unconsolidated entities as Gains on Dispositions of
Development Properties and Land, Net  when the property was included in our land portfolio or when we developed the property within
our development portfolio prior to the sale or contribution.  
 
Gains on Other Dispositions of Investments in Real Estate, Net.  We present all other gains on sales to third parties or contributions to
our unconsolidated entities of non-developed properties (primarily operating properties) and other real estate transactions as Gains on
Other Dispositions of Investments in Real Estate, Net . Generally , any operating property that was previously depreciated prior to sale
or contribution is presented within this line item. W e also include gains or losses on the remeasurement of equity investments to fair
value upon acquisition of a controlling interest and the transaction is considered the acquisition of a business and gains or losses
upon the partial redemption of our investment in an unconsolidated entity .
 
Rental Expenses.  Rental expenses principally include the cost of our property management personnel, utilities, repairs and
maintenance, property insurance, real estate taxes and the other costs of managing the properties.
 
Strategic Capital Expenses.  Strategic capital expenses generally include the direct expenses associated with the asset
management of the co-investment ventures provided by our employees who are assigned to our Strategic Capital segment and the
costs of our Prologis Promote Plan based on earned promotes. In addition, in order to achieve ef ficiencies and economies of scale, all
of our
65
 
property management functions are provided by property management personnel who are assigned to our Real Estate Operations
segment. These individuals perform the property-level management of the properties in our owned and managed portfolio, which
include properties we consolidate and those we manage that are owned by the unconsolidated co-investment ventures. W e allocate
the costs of our property management to the properties we consolidate (included in Rental Expenses ) and the properties owned by
the unconsolidated co-investment ventures (included in Strategic Capital Expenses ) by using the square feet owned by the respective
portfolios.
 
Equity-Based Compensation.  We account for equity-based compensation by measuring the cost of employee services received in
exchange for an award of an equity instrument based on the fair value of the award on the grant date. W e recognize the cost of the
award on a straight-line basis over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award,
generally the vesting period.
 
Income T axes.  Under the IRC, REIT s are generally not required to pay federal income taxes if they distribute 100% of their taxable
income and meet certain income, asset and stockholder tests. If we fail to qualify as a REIT  in any taxable year , we will be subject to
federal income taxes at regular corporate rates and may not be able to qualify as a REIT  for the four subsequent taxable years. Even
as a REIT , we may be subject to certain foreign, state and local taxes on our own income and property , and to federal income and
excise taxes on our undistributed taxable income.
 
We have elected taxable REIT  subsidiary (“TRS”) status for some of our consolidated subsidiaries. This allows us to provide services
that would otherwise be considered impermissible for REIT s. Many of the foreign countries in which we have operations do not
recognize REIT s or do not accord REIT  status under their respective tax laws to our entities that operate in their jurisdiction. In the
U.S., we are taxed in certain states in which we operate. Accordingly , we recognize income tax expense for the federal and state
income taxes incurred by our TRSs, taxes incurred in certain states and foreign jurisdictions, and interest and penalties associated
with our unrecognized tax benefit liabilities.
 
We evaluate tax positions taken in the Consolidated Financial Statements under the interpretation for accounting for uncertainty in
income taxes. As a result of this evaluation, we may recognize a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than
not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by taxing authorities.
 
We recognize deferred income taxes in certain taxable entities. For federal income tax purposes, certain acquisitions have been
treated as tax-free transactions resulting in a carry-over basis in assets and liabilities. For financial reporting purposes and in
accordance with purchase accounting, we record all of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities at the estimated fair value at the
date of acquisition, as discussed above. For our taxable subsidiaries, including certain international jurisdictions, we recognize the
deferred income tax liabilities that represent the tax ef fect of the dif ference between the tax basis carried over and the fair value of the
tangible and intangible assets at the date of acquisition. Any subsequent increases or decreases to the deferred income tax liability
recorded in connection with these acquisitions, are reflected in earnings.
 
If taxable income is generated in these subsidiaries, we recognize a benefit in earnings as a result of the reversal of the deferred
income tax liability previously recorded at the acquisition date and we record current income tax expense representing the entire
current income tax liability . If the reversal of the deferred income tax liability results from a sale or contribution of assets, the
classification of the reversal to the Consolidated Statements of Income is based on the taxability of the transaction. If the sale or
contribution is of the real estate asset and results in a taxable transaction, the reversal is recorded to deferred income tax benefit. If
the sale or contribution is the disposition of the entity that owns the asset, the reversal is recorded through gains.
 
Deferred income tax expense is generally a function of the period’ s temporary dif ferences (items that are treated dif ferently for tax
purposes than for financial reporting purposes) and the utilization of tax net operating losses (“NOL”) generated in prior years that had
been previously recognized as deferred income tax assets. W e provide for a valuation allowance for deferred income tax assets if we
believe all or some portion of the deferred income tax asset may not be realized. Any increase or decrease in the valuation allowance
that results from a change in circumstances that causes a change in the estimated ability to realize the related deferred income tax
asset is included in deferred tax expense.
 
Environmental Costs.  We incur certain environmental remediation costs, including cleanup costs, consulting fees for environmental
studies and investigations, monitoring costs, and legal costs relating to cleanup, litigation defense, and the pursuit of responsible third
parties. W e expense costs incurred in connection with operating properties and properties previously sold. W e capitalize costs related
to undeveloped land as development costs and include any expected future environmental liabilities at the time of acquisition. W e
maintain a liability for the estimated costs of environmental remediation expected to be incurred in connection with undeveloped land,
operating properties and properties previously sold that we adjust as appropriate as information becomes available.
 
New Accounting Pronouncements.
 
New Accounting Standards Adopted
 
Leases.  In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“F ASB”) issued an accounting standard update (“ASU”) that
provided the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases. The guidance amended the existing
accounting standards, including a new requirement that lessees recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for leases with
terms greater than twelve months in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Additional guidance and targeted improvements to the
February 2016
66
 
ASU were made through the issuance of supplementary ASUs in July 2018, December 2018 and March 2019. W e refer to all three
ASUs collectively as the “new lease standard.”
 
We adopted the new lease standard on January 1, 2019 and applied it to leases that were in place on the ef fective date. Results for
reporting periods beginning January 1, 2019 are presented under the new lease standard.
 
We elected the package of practical expedients and were not required to reassess the following upon adoption: (i) whether an expired
or existing contract met the definition of a lease; (ii) the lease classification at January 1, 2019 for existing leases; and (iii) whether
leasing costs previously capitalized as initial direct costs would continue to be amortized. This allowed us to continue to account for
our existing ground and of fice space leases as operating leases, however , any new or renewed ground leases after January 1, 2019
may be classified as financing leases unless they meet certain conditions to be considered a lease involving land owned by a
government unit or authority . Upon adoption, we did not have an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings due to the
election of these practical expedients.
 
• As a lessor . The new lease standard required that lessors expense, on an as-incurred basis, certain initial direct costs that are
not incremental in negotiating a lease. Initial direct costs include the salaries and related costs for employees directly working on
leasing activities. Prior to January 1, 2019, these costs were capitalizable in Other Assets  and therefore the new lease standard
resulted in certain of these costs being expensed as incurred through Rental Expenses . During the years ended December 31,
2018 and 2017, we capitalized $ 21.2 million and $ 23.8 million, respectively , of internal costs related to our leasing activities. W e
will continue to amortize initial direct costs capitalized prior to January 1, 2019.
 
We adopted the practical expedient that allowed us to not separate expenses reimbursed by our customers (“rental recoveries”)
from the associated rental revenue if certain criteria were met. W e assessed these criteria and concluded that the timing and
straight-line pattern of transfer to the lessee for rental revenue and the associated rental recoveries are the same and as our
leases qualify as operating leases, we accounted for and presented rental revenue and rental recoveries as a single component
under Rental Revenues  in our Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2019. As a result of our
adoption of this practical expedient, we also presented $ 1.9 billion and $ 1.7 billion of rental revenue and $ 529.9  million and
$487.3  million of rental recoveries as a single component in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively , to conform to the 2019 new presentation.  
   
• As a lessee. At January 1, 2019 we recognized Lease Right-of-Use (“ROU”) Assets  and Lease Liabilities , principally for our
ground and of fice space leases, in which we are the lessee.
 
See Note 4 for further disclosure around our adoption of the new lease standard.
 
Derivatives and Hedging . In August 2017, the F ASB issued an ASU that simplified the application of hedge accounting guidance in
current GAAP  and improved the reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity’ s risk
management activities in its consolidated financial statements. Among the simplification updates, the ASU eliminated the requirement
in current GAAP  to separately recognize periodic hedge inef fectiveness. Mismatches between the changes in value of the hedged
item and hedging instrument may still occur but they will no longer be separately reported. The ASU required the presentation of the
earnings ef fect of the hedging instrument in the same income statement line item in which the earnings ef fect of the hedged item is
reported. W e adopted the ASU on January 1, 2019 on a modified retrospective basis and there was no adjustment to the opening
balance of retained earnings.
 
NOTE 3. DCT TRANSACTION
 
We acquired DCT  Industrial Trust Inc. and DCT  Industrial Operating Partnership LP  (collectively “DCT”) on August 22, 2018  (“DCT
Transaction”).
 
The DCT  Transaction was completed for $ 8.5 billion through the issuance of equity based on the closing price of Prologis’  common
stock on August 21, 2018 and the assumption of debt. In connection with the transaction, each issued and outstanding share or unit
held by a DCT  stockholder or unitholder was converted automatically into 1.02 shares of Prologis common stock or common units of
Prologis, L.P ., respectively , including shares and units under DCT’ s equity incentive plan that became fully vested at closing.  
 
Through the DCT  Transaction, we acquired a portfolio of logistics real estate assets that consisted of 408 operating properties,
aggregating 68.0 million square feet, 10 properties under development, aggregating 2.8 million square feet and 305 acres of land with
build-out potential of 4.5 million square feet.
 
The aggregate equity consideration of approximately $ 6.6 billion is calculated below (in millions, except price per share):
 
Number of Prologis shares and units issued upon conversion of DCT  shares and units at August 21, 2018  99.73  
Multiplied by price of Prologis' common stock on August 21, 2018 $ 65.75  
Fair value of Prologis shares and units issued $ 6,557 
 
We accounted for the DCT  Transaction as an asset acquisition and as a result the transaction costs of $ 50.0 million were capitalized
to the basis of the acquired properties. Transaction costs include investment banker advisory fees, legal fees and other costs.
 
67
 
Under acquisition accounting, the total purchase price was allocated to the DCT  tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired
and liabilities assumed based on their relative fair values as follows (in millions):     
 
Net investments in real estate $ 8,362  
Intangible assets, net of intangible liabilities  292 
Cash and other assets  24 
Debt  (1,863 )
Accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities  (143)
Noncontrolling interests  (65)
Total purchase price, including transaction costs $ 6,607 
 
NOTE 4. REAL ESTATE
 
Investments in real estate properties consisted of the following at December 31 (dollars and square feet in thousands):
 
 Square Feet   Number of Buildings     
 2019   2018 (1)  2019   2018 (1)  2019   2018 (1) 
Operating properties:                        
Buildings and improvements  354,297    354,762    1,876    1,858   $23,067,625   $22,587,267  
Improved land                  8,220,208    8,044,888  
Development portfolio, including land costs:                        
Prestabilized  9,133    8,709    28   30   784,584    828,064  
Properties under development  26,893    27,715    77   70   1,084,683    1,314,737  
Land (2)                  1,101,646    1,192,220  
Other real estate investments (3)                  965,668    619,811  
Total investments in real estate properties                  35,224,414    34,586,987  
Less accumulated depreciation                  5,437,662    4,656,680  
Net investments in real estate properties                 $29,786,752   $29,930,307
 
 
(1) The portfolio acquired in the DCT  Transaction, excluding 49 operating properties classified as Assets Held for Sale or
Contribution,  was included in investments in real estate at December 31, 2018. See Note 3 for more information.
 
(2) At December 31, 2019 and 2018, our land was comprised of 4,411  and 4,929  acres, respectively .
 
(3) Included in other real estate investments were: (i) non-logistics real estate; (ii) land parcels that are ground leased to third
parties; (iii) our corporate headquarters; (iv) costs related to future development projects, including purchase options on land; (v)
earnest money deposits associated with potential acquisitions; and (vi) infrastructure costs related to projects we are developing
on behalf of others.
 
At December 31, 2019, we owned real estate assets in the U.S. and other Americas (Brazil, Canada and Mexico), Europe (Belgium,
the Czech Republic, France, Germany , Hungary , Italy , the Netherlands, Poland, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom
(“U.K.”)) and Asia (China, Japan and Singapore).
 
Acquisitions
 
The following table summarizes our real estate acquisition activity , excluding the DCT  Transaction as discussed in Note 3, for the
years ended December 31 (dollars and square feet in thousands):
 
  2019   2018   2017 (2) 
Number of operating properties   22   20   16 
Square feet   1,405    4,757    6,859  
Acres of land   1,269    1,210    1,392  
Acquisition cost of net investments in real estate properties (1)  $1,074,815   $1,008,718   $1,139,410
 
 
(1) Includes the acquisition cost of properties classified in other real estate investments of $ 302.9  million, $ 72.3 million and $ 50.5
million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively .
 
(2) In August 2017, we acquired our partner ’s interest in certain joint ventures in Brazil for an aggregate price of R$ 1.2 billion
($381.7  million). As a result of this transaction, we began consolidating real estate properties that included twelve  operating
properties, two prestabilized properties and 531 acres of undeveloped land. W e accounted for the transaction as a step-
acquisition under the business combination rules and recognized a gain. The results of operations for these real estate
properties were not significant in 2017. In January 2019, we contributed the majority of these real estate assets into a newly
formed joint venture.
 
On February 4, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Liberty Property Trust and Liberty Property Limited Partnership (collectively
“Liberty” or the “Liberty Transaction”). The Liberty Transaction was completed for approximately $ 13 billion through the issuance of
68
 
equity based on the value of the Prologis common stock issued using the  closing price on February 3, 2020 and the  assumption of
debt. The Liberty portfolio  was primarily comprised of logistics real estate assets, including 502 consolidated industrial operating
properties , aggregating  96.4 million square feet, which we re highly complementary to our U.S. portfolio in terms of product quality ,
location and growth potential in  our key markets.  For further information on the Liberty Transaction see Note 20.
 
Dispositions
 
The following table summarizes our gains on real estate transactions for the years ended December 31 (dollars and square feet in
thousands):
 
 2019   2018   2017  
Gains on dispositions of development properties and land, net            
Contributions to unconsolidated entities            
Number of properties  26   36   29 
Square feet  8,676    12,230    10,049  
Net proceeds $1,328,858   $1,459,963   $1,394,403  
Gains on contributions, net  (1) $402,922   $422,540   $310,869  
            
Dispositions to third parties            
Number of properties  5   8   6 
Square feet  1,351    3,297    2,322  
Net proceeds $204,197   $343,277   $290,679  
Gains on dispositions, net $64,655   $47,277   $16,659  
Total gains on dispositions of development properties and land, net $467,577   $469,817   $327,528  
            
Gains on other dispositions of investments in real estate, net            
Contributions to unconsolidated entities (2)(3)            
Number of properties  19   4   193 
Square feet  8,212    885   38,122  
Net proceeds $840,906   $51,466   $1,807,583  
Gains on contributions, net  (1) $98,062   $36,567   $536,165  
            
Dispositions to third parties            
Number of properties  47   70   104 
Square feet  7,604    12,150    14,825  
Net proceeds (4) $651,306   $905,210   $990,822  
Gains on dispositions, net (4) $157,157   $334,612   $258,052  
Gains on revaluation of equity investments upon acquisition of a controlling interest $ -  $ -  $61,220  
Gains on partial redemptions of investment in an unconsolidated co-investment venture
(5) $135,022   $ -  $ - 
Total gains on other dispositions of investments in real estate, net $390,241   $371,179   $855,437
 
 
(1) Amounts in 2019 and 2018 reflect the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard under which we recognized the entire
gain attributed to contributions of real estate properties to unconsolidated entities. Amounts in 2017 reflect our prior recognition
of the gain to the extent of the third-party ownership in the unconsolidated entity acquiring the property with the deferral of a
portion of the gain related to our ownership.
 
(2) In 2017, we contributed 190 operating properties totaling 37.1 million square feet owned by Prologis North American Industrial
Fund ("NAIF") to Prologis Targeted U.S. Logistics Fund ("USLF"), our unconsolidated co-investment venture. In exchange for
the contribution, we received cash proceeds and additional units and USLF assumed $ 956.0  million of secured debt.  
 
(3) In 2019, we formed Prologis Brazil Logistics V enture (“PBL V”), a Brazilian unconsolidated co-investment venture, with one
partner . We contributed an initial portfolio of real estate properties to PBL V consisting of 14 operating properties totaling 6.9
million square feet and 371 acres of land. W e received cash proceeds and units for our 20% equity interest .
 
(4) In 2017, we sold our investment in Europe Logistics V enture 1.
 
(5) In 2019, we redeemed a portion of our investment in a European unconsolidated co-investment venture.
 
69
 
Leases
 
As a Lessor
 
We lease our operating properties to customers under agreements that are classified as operating leases. W e recognize the total
minimum lease payments provided for under the leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Our weighted average lease term
remaining was 50 and 52 months based on square feet for all leases in ef fect at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively .
 
The following table summarizes the minimum lease payments due from our customers on leases with an original lease term greater
than one year for space in our operating properties, prestabilized and under development properties, leases of land subject to ground
leases and assets held for sale or contribution at December 31 (in thousands):
 
  2019     2018  
2020  $ 2,133,581   2019  $ 2,006,475  
2021   1,922,139   2020   1,867,253  
2022   1,618,649   2021   1,589,102  
2023   1,317,729   2022   1,278,281  
2024   1,013,632   2023   990,970  
Thereafter   3,479,038   Thereafter   3,293,320  
Total  $ 11,484,768   Total  $ 11,025,401
 
 
These amounts do not reflect future rental revenue from the renewal or replacement of existing leases and exclude reimbursements of
operating expenses and rental increases that are not fixed.
 
As a Lessee
 
We have approximately 130 ground and of fice space leases in which we are the lessee, which primarily qualify as operating leases,
with remaining lease terms of 1 to 90 years  at December 31, 2019.
 
The following table summarizes the fixed, future minimum rental payments, excluding variable costs, for which the lease has
commenced at December 31 st, with amounts for 2019 discounted by our incremental borrowing rates to calculate the lease liabilities
of our leases (in thousands):
 
  2019     2018  
2020  $ 43,529   2019  $ 38,769  
2021   46,038   2020   38,267  
2022   41,624   2021   34,307  
2023   39,915   2022   32,312  
2024   35,400   2023   30,180  
Thereafter   776,205   Thereafter   670,147  
Total undiscounted rental payments   982,711   Total undiscounted rental payments  $ 843,982  
Less imputed interest   511,077        
Total lease liabilities  $ 471,634       
 
 
The weighted average remaining lease term for these leases was 33 and 28 years at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively . We
do not include renewal options in the lease term for calculating the lease liability unless we are reasonably certain we will exercise the
option or the lessor has the sole ability to exercise the option. The weighted average incremental borrowing rate was 3.7% at
December 31, 2019. W e assigned a collateralized interest rate to each lease based on the term of the lease and the currency in which
the lease was denominated.
 
NOTE 5. UNCONSOLIDATED ENTITIES
 
Summary of Investments
 
We have investments in entities through a variety of ventures. W e co-invest in entities that own multiple properties with partners and
investors and we provide asset and property management services to these entities, which we refer to as co-investment ventures.
These entities may be consolidated or unconsolidated depending on the structure, our partner ’s participation and other rights and our
level of control of the entity . This note details our investments in unconsolidated co-investment ventures, which are related parties and
accounted for using the equity method of accounting. See Note 11 for more detail regarding our consolidated investments that are not
wholly owned.
 
We also have investments in other ventures, generally with one partner that we do not manage, which we account for using the equity
method. W e refer to our investments in both unconsolidated co-investment ventures and other ventures, collectively , as
unconsolidated entities.
 
70
 
The following table summarizes our investments in and advances to unconsolidated entities at December 31 (in thousands):
 
  2019   2018  
Unconsolidated co-investment ventures  $ 5,873,784   $ 5,407,838  
Other ventures   363,587    337,456  
Total  $ 6,237,371   $ 5,745,294
 
 
Unconsolidated Co-Investment Ventures
 
The following table summarizes our investments in the individual co-investment ventures at December 31 (dollars in thousands):
 
  Ownership
Percentage  Investment in
and Advances to 
Co-Investment V enture  2019   2018   2019   2018  
Prologis Targeted U.S. Logistics Fund, L.P . (“USLF”)   27.3%  27.4% $1,728,043   $1,456,427  
FIBRA  Prologis (1)   47.1%  46.7%  517,347    536,377  
Prologis European Logistics Partners Sàrl (“PELP”) (2)   50.0%  50.0%  1,595,331    1,517,115  
Prologis European Logistics Fund (“PELF”)   24.1%  27.9%  1,144,831    1,198,904  
Prologis UK Logistics V enture (“UKL V”) (2)   15.0%  15.0%  59,937    68,002  
Nippon Prologis REIT , Inc. (“NPR”) (3)   15.1%  15.1%  544,333    472,035  
Prologis China Core Logistics Fund, LP  (“PCCLF”) (4)   15.6%  -   59,984    - 
Prologis China Logistics V enture I, LP , II, LP  and III, LP
     (“Prologis China Logistics V enture”) (2)(4)   15.0%  15.0%  83,285    141,071  
Prologis Brazil Logistics V enture (“PBL V”) and other joint ventures (2)(5)  20.0%  10.0%  140,693    17,907  
Total          $5,873,784   $5,407,838
 
 
(1) At December 31, 2019, we owned 305.8  million units of FIBRA  Prologis that had a closing price of Ps 41.07  ($2.18) per unit on
the Mexican Stock Exchange. W e have granted FIBRA  Prologis a right of first refusal with respect to stabilized properties that
we plan to sell in Mexico.
 
(2)We have one partner in each of these co-investment ventures.
 
(3)At December 31, 2019, we owned 0.4 million units of NPR that  had a closing price of ¥ 276,400  ($2,546 ) per share on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange. For any properties we develop and plan to sell in Japan, we have committed to of fer those properties to NPR.
 
At December 31, 2019 and 2018, we had receivables from NPR of $ 136.3  million and $ 122.0  million, respectively , related to
customer security deposits that originated through a leasing company owned by us that pertain to properties previously
contributed to NPR. W e have a corresponding payable to NPR’ s customers in Other Liabilities . These amounts are repaid to us
as the leases turn over .
 
(4) In 2019, we formed PCCLF , an unconsolidated co-investment venture investing in properties in China, with eight partners. At
that time, we and our existing partner in Prologis China Logistics V enture I, LP  received equity interests in PCCLF for the
contribution of the existing portfolio of assets consisting of 79 properties totaling 22 million square feet. The seven new partners
contributed cash, which was used to redeem a portion of our existing partner ’s investment in PCCLF . We maintained our
ownership percentage in these assets subsequent to the contribution and therefore did not recognize a gain.
 
(5) In 2019, we formed PBL V and hold an 20.0% equity ownership in the venture. In the table above, we reflect our ownership in
PBLV and exclude our 10.0% ownership in the other joint ventures. See Note 4 for more information on PBL V.
 
The amounts recognized in Strategic Capital Revenues  and Earnings from Unconsolidated Entities, Net  depend on the size and
operations of the unconsolidated co-investment ventures, the timing of revenues earned through promotes and transactional fees, as
well as fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and our ownership interest. W e recognized Strategic Capital Expenses  for
direct costs associated with the asset management of these ventures and allocated property-level management costs for the
properties owned by the ventures.
 
The following table summarizes the Strategic Capital Revenues  we recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income related to
our unconsolidated co-investment ventures (in thousands):
 
  2019   2018   2017  
Recurring fees  $266,615   $230,746   $195,513  
Transactional fees   57,334    55,816    48,225  
Promote revenue (1)   165,635    116,290    127,519  
Total strategic capital revenues from unconsolidated co-investment ventures (2) $489,584   $402,852   $371,257
 
 
71
 
(1) Includes promote revenue earned from unconsolidated co-investment venture s principally  in Europe  in 2019, China  and Europe
in 2018  and the U.S. in 2017 .
 
(2) These amounts exclude strategic capital revenues from other ventures.
 
The following table summarizes the key property information, financial position and operating information of our unconsolidated co-
investment ventures (not our proportionate share) and the amounts we recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements related to
our unconsolidated co-investment ventures at December 31 and for the years ended December 31 (dollars and square feet in
millions):
 
 U.S. Other Americas Europe Asia Total  
As of: 2019  2018  2019 (1)  2018  2019  2018  2019 (2)  2018  2019  2018 
Key property information:                                        
Ventures  1   1   2   2   3   3   3   2   9   8 
Operating properties  605   566   214   209   731   669   144   125   1,694   1,569 
Square feet  99   91   44   39   176   159   59   51   378   340 
                                        
Financial position:                                        
Total assets ($)  8,408   7,303   2,707   2,137   14,677   13,028   8,758   7,089   34,550   29,557 
Third-party debt ($)  2,130   2,094   769   838   3,213   2,548   3,296   2,668   9,408   8,148 
Total liabilities ($)  2,514   2,350   801   862   4,575   3,615   3,751   3,006   11,641   9,833 
                                        
Our investment balance ($)  (3)  1,728   1,457   658   554   2,800   2,784   688   613   5,874   5,408 
Our weighted average
ownership  (4)  27.3%  27.4%  39.1%  44.4%  30.2%  33.2%  15.1%  15.1%  27.1%  28.3%
 
 U.S.   Other Americas   Europe   Asia   Total  
Operating Information: 2019  2018  2017  2019
(1)  2018  2017  2019 2018  2017  2019  2018  2017  2019  2018  2017 
For the years ended:                                                           
Total revenues ($)  738   676   533   266   217   245   1,099  1,101   1,030   514   457   372   2,617   2,451   2,180 
Net earnings ($)  128   150   139   91   63   71   311  509   406   49   88   182   579   810   798 
                                                           
Our earnings from
unconsolidated
     co-investment ventures, net
($)  38   45   33   32   26   26   102  193   146   10   15   29   182   279   234
 
 
(1)PBLV and our other Brazilian joint ventures are combined as one venture for the purpose of this table.
 
(2)As discussed above, the formation of PCCLF in 2019 increased the number of ventures in Asia.
 
(3)Prologis’  investment balance is presented at our adjusted basis derived from the ventures’  U.S. GAAP  information. The
difference between our ownership interest of a venture’ s equity and our investment balance at December 31, 2019 and 2018,
results principally from four types of transactions: (i) deferred gains from the contribution of property to a venture prior to
January 1, 2018 ($ 611.5  million and $ 635.9  million, respectively); (ii) recording additional costs associated with our investment
in the venture ($ 87.2 million and $ 94.4 million, respectively); (iii) receivables, principally for fees and promotes ($ 152.0  million
and $ 166.7  million, respectively); and (iv) customer security deposits retained subsequent to property contributions to NPR, as
discussed above. For deferred gains from partial sales recorded prior to January 1, 2018, we recognize these gains over the
lives of the underlying real estate properties or at the time of disposition to a third party .
(4)Represents our weighted average ownership interest in all unconsolidated co-investment ventures based on each entity’ s
contribution of total assets before depreciation, net of other liabilities.
 
In January 2020, USLF acquired a portfolio of 108 operating properties aggregating 18.3 million square feet from Industrial Property
Trust Inc. (“IPT”) in a cash transaction, including the assumption of debt. Our investment in the acquisition was approximately $ 500
million.
 
Equity Commitments Related to Certain Unconsolidated Co-Investment Ventures
 
Certain unconsolidated co-investment ventures have equity commitments from us and our venture partners. Our venture partners
fulfill their equity commitment with cash. W e may fulfill our equity commitment through contributions of properties or cash. The equity
contributions are generally used for the acquisition or development of properties but may be used for the repayment of debt or other
general uses. The venture may obtain financing for the acquisition of properties and therefore the acquisition price of additional
investments that the venture could make may be more than the equity commitment. Depending on market conditions, the investment
objectives of the ventures, our liquidity needs and other factors, we may make additional contributions of properties or additional cash
investments in these ventures through the remaining commitment period.
 
At December 31, 2019, our remaining equity commitments were $ 379.6  million, primarily for Prologis China Logistics V enture.  The
equity commitments expire from 2020  to 2026 .
 
72
 
NOTE 6. ASSETS HELD FOR SALE OR CONTRIBUTION
 
We had investments in certain real estate properties that met the criteria to be classified as held for sale or contribution at December
31, 2019 and 2018. At the time of classification, these properties were expected to be sold to third parties or were recently stabilized
and expected to be contributed to unconsolidated co-investment ventures within twelve months. The amounts included in Assets Held
for Sale or Contribution  represented real estate investment balances and the related assets and liabilities for each property .
 
Assets held for sale or contribution consisted of the following at December 31 (dollars and square feet in thousands):
 
  2019   2018  
Number of operating properties   28   57 
Square feet   9,371    8,236  
Total assets held for sale or contribution  $720,685   $622,288  
Total liabilities associated with assets held for sale or contribution – included in Other Liabilities  $ 41,994   $ 12,972
 
 
NOTE 7. OTHER ASSETS AND OTHER LIABILITIES
 
The following table summarizes our other assets, net of amortization and depreciation, if applicable, at December 31 (in thousands):
 
  2019   2018  
Rent leveling  $ 404,516   $ 346,116  
Leasing commissions   381,013    346,852  
Acquired lease intangibles   314,179    450,690  
Value added taxes receivable   120,923    97,047  
Prepaid assets   109,676    108,581  
Fixed assets   107,468    112,211  
Accounts receivable   85,835    107,141  
Other notes receivable   35,308    35,338  
Management contracts   14,888    16,257  
Derivative assets   13,266    22,731  
Deferred income taxes   4,595    8,767  
Other   120,190    124,188  
Total  $1,711,857   $1,775,919
 
The following table summarizes our other liabilities, net of amortization, if applicable, at December 31 (in thousands):
 
  2019   2018  
Tenant security deposits  $ 269,841   $ 240,467  
Unearned rents   106,152    86,083  
Income tax liabilities   65,652    59,766  
Environmental liabilities   63,577    88,863  
Acquired lease intangibles   58,525    76,087  
Liabilities associated with assets held for sale or contribution   41,994    12,972  
Indemnification liability   39,830    36,476  
Derivative liabilities   23,851    8,159  
Deferred income   11,971    10,088  
Value added taxes payable   10,036    11,037  
Other   186,172    136,448  
Total  $ 877,601   $ 766,446
 
 
The following table summarizes the expected future amortization of leasing commissions and forgone rent (included in acquired lease
intangibles) into amortization expense and above and below market leases (included in acquired lease intangibles) and rent leveling
net assets into rental revenues, all based on the balances at December 31, 2019 (in thousands):
 
  Amortization
Expense   Net Decrease (Increase) to
Rental Revenues 
2020  $ 170,807   $ (16,377 )
2021   134,137    20,076  
2022   104,372    41,895  
2023   79,452    49,773  
2024   56,699    46,305  
Thereafter   125,877    228,167  
Total  $ 671,344   $ 369,839  
 
73
 
 
NOTE 8. DEBT
 
All debt is incurred by the OP  or its consolidated subsidiaries.
 
The following table summarizes our debt at December 31 (dollars in thousands):
 
 2019   2018  
 Weighted Average
Interest Rate  (1)  Amount
Outstanding (2)  Weighted Average
Interest Rate (1)  Amount
Outstanding (2) 
Credit facilities  0.4% $ 184,255    3.4% $ 50,500  
Senior notes (3)  2.4%  9,660,570    2.7%  8,304,147  
Term loans and unsecured other  0.9%  1,441,882    1.8%  1,921,428  
Secured mortgage (4)  3.4%  619,170    5.1%  813,740  
Total  2.2% $ 11,905,877    2.7% $ 11,089,815
 
 
(1) The interest rates presented represent the ef fective interest rates (including amortization of debt issuance costs and the
noncash premiums or discounts) at the end of the period for the debt outstanding.
 
(2) We borrow in the functional currencies of the countries where we invest. Included in the outstanding balances at December 31
were borrowings denominated in the following currencies:
 
   2019   2018  
   Amount
Outstanding   % of T otal   Amount
Outstanding   % of T otal  
 British pound sterling  $ 656,549    5.5% $ 635,972    5.8%
 Canadian dollar   279,730    2.3%  266,337    2.4%
 Euro   6,128,986    51.5%  4,893,693    44.1%
 Japanese yen   2,329,381    19.6%  1,951,844    17.6%
 U.S. dollar   2,511,231    21.1%  3,341,969    30.1%
 Total  $ 11,905,877       $ 11,089,815     
 
 
(3) Senior notes are due from January 2020  to September 2049  with ef fective interest rates ranging from - 0.1% to 4.5% at
December 31, 2019. The senior notes of € 400 million ($ 445.9  million) bearing a floating rate of Euribor  plus 0.3%, were
redeemed in January 2020, primarily with the proceeds from the senior notes issued in September 2019, as discussed below .
 
(4) Secured mortgage debt is due from April 2020  to November 2027  with ef fective interest rates ranging from 0.2% to 7.8% at
December 31, 2019. The debt was principally secured by 87 operating properties, one prestabilized property and one property
under development with an aggregate undepreciated cost of $ 1.7 billion at December 31, 2019.
 
Credit Facilities
 
In 2019, we recast our global senior credit facility (the “Global Facility”), under which we may draw in British pounds sterling, Canadian
dollars, euro, Japanese yen, Mexican pesos and U.S. dollars on a revolving basis up to $ 3.5 billion (subject to currency fluctuations).
Pricing under the Global Facility , including the spread over LIBOR, facility fees and letter of credit fees, varies primarily based on the
public debt ratings of the OP . The Global Facility is scheduled to mature in January 2023 ; however , we may extend the maturity date
for six months on two occasions, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions and payment of extension fees. W e have the ability to
increase the Global Facility to $ 4.5 billion, subject to currency fluctuations and obtaining additional lender commitments.   
 
We also have a Japanese yen revolver (the “Revolver”) with availability of ¥ 50.0 billion ($ 460.6  million at December 31, 2019). W e
have the ability to increase the Revolver to ¥ 65.0 billion ($ 598.8  million at December 31, 2019), subject to obtaining additional lender
commitments. Pricing under the Revolver , including the spread over LIBOR, facility fees and letter of credit fees, varies based on the
public debt ratings of the OP . The Revolver is scheduled to mature in February 2021 ; however , we may extend the maturity date for
one year , subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions and payment of extension fees.
 
We refer to the Global Facility and the Revolver , collectively , as our “Credit Facilities.”
 
74
 
The following table summarizes information about our Credit Facilities (dollars in millions):
 
  2019   2018   2017  
For the years ended December 31:             
Weighted average daily interest rate   1.5%  3.1%  1.3%
Weighted average daily borrowings  $ 85  $ 253  $ 111 
Maximum borrowings outstanding at any month-end  $ 257  $ 485  $ 317 
At December 31:             
Aggregate lender commitments  $ 3,946   $ 3,470   $ 3,490  
Less:             
Borrowings outstanding   184   51   317 
Outstanding letters of credit   36   31   33 
Current availability  $ 3,726   $ 3,388   $ 3,140  
            
 
Senior Notes
 
The senior notes are unsecured and our obligations are ef fectively subordinated in certain respects to any of our debt that is secured
by a lien on real property , to the extent of the value of such real property . The senior notes require interest payments be made
quarterly , semi-annually or annually . The majority of the senior notes are redeemable at any time at our option, subject to certain
prepayment penalties. Such repurchase and other terms are governed by the provisions of indenture agreements, various note
purchase agreements or trust deeds.
 
The following table summarizes the issuances of senior notes during 2019 (principal in thousands):
 
Initial Borrowing Date  Principal  (1)   Stated Interest Rate   Maturity Date
  Borrowing Currency   USD        
March  ¥ 10,000,000   $ 90,531   1.2%   March 2039
September  € 1,800,000   $ 1,987,200   0.3% – 1.5%   September 2027 – 2049
 
(1) The exchange rate used to calculate into U.S. dollars was the spot rate at the settlement date.
 
Term Loans
 
The following table summarizes our outstanding term loans at December 31 (dollars and borrowing currency in thousands):
 
Term LoanBorrowing
Currency Initial
Borrowing
Date  Lender Commitment at
2019   Amount
Outstanding
at 2019  Amount
Outstanding
at 2018  Interest Rate  Maturity Date
     Borrowing
Currency USD  USD   USD        
2017 Term Loan (1)USD, EUR,
JPY and GBP June 2014 $ 500,000 $500,000  $ -  $ 500,000  LIBOR + 0.9%  May 2020
2015 Canadian
     Term Loan CAD  December
2015  $ 170,506 $131,214   131,214   125,107  CDOR + 0.9%  February 2023
2016 Yen Term
     Loan (2) JPY  August 2016  -  -   -   909,813  Yen LIBOR +
0.7%   August 2022 –
2023
March 2017 Yen
     Term Loan JPY  March 2017 ¥12,000,000 $110,553   110,553   109,178  0.9% and
1.0%   March 2027 –
2028
October 2017 Yen
     Term Loan JPY  October
2017  ¥10,000,000 $92,127   92,127   90,981  0.9%   October 2032
December 2018 Yen
     Term Loan JPY  December
2018  ¥20,000,000 $184,254   184,254   181,963  1.2% and Yen
LIBOR + 0.7%  December 2031
– June 2033
January 2019 Yen
     Term Loan JPY  January
2019  ¥15,000,000 $138,191   138,191   -  Yen LIBOR +
0.5% to 0.6%  January 2028 –
2030
March 2019 Yen
     Term Loan (2) JPY  March 2019 ¥85,000,000 $783,082   783,082   -  Yen LIBOR +
0.4%   March 2026
Subtotal             1,439,421   1,917,042       
Debt issuance costs, net            (8,484)  (8,230)      
Total term loans            $1,430,937  $1,908,812       
 
(1) We may increase the borrowings on the 2017 Term Loan up to $ 1.0 billion, subject to obtaining additional lender commitments.
We paid down $ 1.3 billion and $ 2.0 billion and reborrowed $ 777.2  million and $ 2.0 billion in 2019 and 2018, respectively . We
may extend the maturity date twice, by one year each, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions and the payment of an
extension fee.
  
75
 
(2) During 2019, we repaid the outstanding  balance of ¥ 100.0  billion ($ 897.4  million) on our 2016 Yen Term Loan, primarily with the
proceeds from the March 2019 Yen Term Loan . We have the ability to increase the March 2019 Yen Term Loan to ¥ 120.0  billion
($1.1 billion at December 31, 2019), subject to obtaining additional lender commitments.
 
Long-Term Debt Maturities
 
Scheduled principal payments due on our debt for each year through the period ended December 31, 2024, and thereafter were as
follows at December 31, 2019 (in thousands):
 
 Unsecured        
  Credit   Senior   Term Loans   Secured      
Maturity  Facilities   Notes   and Other   Mortgage   Total  
2020  (1)  $ -  $ 449,360   $ 10,945   $ 75,448   $ 535,753  
2021  (2)   184,255    786,380    -   95,646    1,066,281  
2022   -   786,380    -   12,007    798,387  
2023   -   850,000    131,214    33,981    1,015,195  
2024   -   786,380    -   262,375    1,048,755  
Thereafter   -   6,080,150    1,308,207    141,989    7,530,346  
Subtotal   184,255    9,738,650    1,450,366    621,446    11,994,717  
Premiums (discounts), net   -   (46,568 )  -   498   (46,070 )
Debt issuance costs, net   -   (31,512 )  (8,484 )  (2,774 )  (42,770 )
Total  $ 184,255   $9,660,570   $ 1,441,882   $ 619,170   $11,905,877 
 
(1) As discussed above, in January 2020 we redeemed €400 million ($ 445.9  million) of senior notes.  We expect to repay the
remaining amounts maturing in the next twelve months  with cash generated from operations, proceeds from dispositions of real
estate properties, or as necessary , with additional borrowings.
 
(2) Included in the 2021 maturities was the Revolver that can be extended until 2022.
 
Interest Expense
 
The following table summarizes the components of interest expense for the years ended December 31 (in thousands):
 
  2019   2018   2017  
Gross interest expense  $ 271,451   $ 268,942   $ 328,228  
Amortization of debt discounts (premiums), net   3,713    (590)  (13,728 )
Amortization of debt issuance costs, net   13,293    13,243    14,479  
Interest expense before capitalization  $ 288,457   $ 281,595   $ 328,979  
Capitalized amounts   (48,504 )  (52,454 )  (54,493 )
Net interest expense  $ 239,953   $ 229,141   $ 274,486  
Total cash paid for interest, net of receipts and amounts capitalized  $ 214,375   $ 205,485   $ 278,313
 
 
Early Extinguishment of Debt
 
Over the last three years, we repurchased or repaid certain debt before the maturity date in an ef fort to reduce our borrowing costs
and extend our debt maturities. As a result, the dif ference between the recorded debt (including premiums, discounts and related debt
issuance costs) and the consideration we paid to retire the debt, including fees, was recognized as gains or losses. Fees associated
with the restructuring of debt that meets the modification criteria, along with existing unamortized premium or discount and debt
issuance costs, are amortized over the term of the new debt .
 
The following table summarizes the activity related to the repurchase of debt and the net loss on early extinguishment of debt for 2019
and 2017 (in millions):
  2019   2017  
Senior notes:         
Original principal amount  $ 656.3   $ 1,495.3  
Cash purchase price  $ 669.1   $ 1,566.5  
Secured mortgage debt:         
Original principal amount  $ 432.8   $ 538.3  
Cash repayment price  $ 432.9   $ 538.3  
Total:         
Original principal amount  $ 1,089.1   $ 2,033.6  
Cash purchase/repayment price  $ 1,102.0   $ 2,104.8  
Losses on early extinguishment of debt  $ 16.1  $ 68.4 
 
76
 
In 2018, we recognized $ 2.6 million in losses primarily due to the extinguishment of $ 1.8 billion of debt assumed in the DCT
Transaction. The loss associated with the DCT  Transaction represented the excess of the prepayment penalties of $ 48.7 million over
the $ 46.5 million premium recorded upon the assumption of the debt.
 
Financial Debt Covenants
 
We have $ 9.7 billion of senior notes and $ 1.4 billion of term loans outstanding at December 31, 2019 that were subject to certain
financial covenants under their related indentures. W e are also subject to financial covenants under our Credit Facilities and certain
secured mortgage debt. At December 31, 2019, we were in compliance with all of our financial debt covenants.
 
Guarantee of Finance Subsidiary Debt
 
In 2018, we formed finance subsidiaries as part of our operations in Europe (Prologis Euro Finance LLC), Japan (Prologis Yen
Finance LLC) and the U.K. (Prologis Sterling Finance LLC).
 
These entities are 100% indirectly owned by the OP  and all unsecured debt issued or to be issued by each entity is or will be fully and
unconditionally guaranteed by the OP . There are no restrictions or limits on the OP’ s ability to obtain funds from its subsidiaries by
dividend or loan. In reliance on Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X, the separate financial statements of Prologis Euro Finance LLC, Prologis
Yen Finance LLC and Prologis Sterling Finance LLC are not provided.
 
NOTE 9. STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY OF PROLOGIS, INC.
 
Shares Authorized
 
At December 31, 2019, 1.1 billion shares were authorized to be issued by the Parent, of which 1.0 billion shares represent common
stock. Our board of directors (the “Board”) may , without stockholder approval, classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our stock
from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to
distributions, qualifications and terms or conditions of redemption of such shares.
 
Common Stock
 
On August 22, 2018, we issued 96.2 million common shares in the DCT  Transaction. See Note 3 for more detail on the transaction.
 
We did not issue any shares of common stock under our at-the-market program during 2019, 2018 and 2017. W e have an equity
distribution agreement that allows us to sell up to $ 750 million aggregate gross sales proceeds of shares of common stock, of which
$535.2  million remains available for sale through six designated agents. These agents earn a fee of up to 2% of the gross proceeds
as agreed to on a transaction-by-transaction basis.
 
Under the 2012 Long-T erm Incentive Plan, certain of our employees and outside directors are able to participate in equity-based
compensation plans. See Note 12 for additional information on equity-based compensation plans.
 
Preferred Stock
 
At December 31, 2019 and 2018 our Series Q preferred stock outstanding had a dividend rate of 8.54% and will be redeemable at our
option on or after November 13, 2026. Holders have, subject to certain conditions, limited voting rights and all holders are entitled to
receive cumulative preferential dividends based on liquidation preference. The dividends are payable quarterly when, and if, they have
been declared by the Board, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends.
 
Ownership Restrictions
 
For us to qualify as a REIT , five or fewer individuals may not own more than 50% of the value of our outstanding stock at any time
during the last half of our taxable year . Therefore, our charter restricts beneficial ownership (or ownership generally attributed to a
person under the REIT  rules), by a person, or persons acting as a group, of issued and outstanding common and preferred stock that
would cause that person to own or be deemed to own more than 9.8% (by value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of
our issued and outstanding capital stock. Furthermore, subject to certain exceptions, no person shall at any time directly or indirectly
acquire ownership of more than 25% of any of the preferred stock. These provisions assist us in protecting and preserving our REIT
status and protect the interests of stockholders in takeover transactions by preventing the acquisition of a substantial block of
outstanding shares of stock.
 
Shares of stock owned by a person or group of people in excess of these limits are subject to redemption by us. The provision does
not apply where a majority of the Board, in its sole and absolute discretion, waives such limit after determining that our status as a
REIT  for federal income tax purposes will not be jeopardized.
 
Dividends
 
To comply with the REIT  requirements of the IRC, we are generally required to make common and preferred stock dividends (other
than capital gain distributions) to our stockholders in amounts that together at least equal (i) the sum of (a) 90% of our “REIT  taxable
77
 
income” computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and net capital gains and (b) 90% of the net income (after tax), if
any, from foreclosure property , minus (ii) certain excess noncash income. Our common stock distribution policy is to distribute a
percentage of our cash flow that ensures that we will meet the distribution requirements of the IRC and that allows us to also retain
cash to meet other needs, such as capital improvements and other investment activities.
 
Our tax return for the year ended December 31, 2019 has not been filed. The taxability information presented for our dividends paid in
2019 is based on management’ s estimate. Our tax returns for open tax years have not been examined by the Internal Revenue
Service, other than those discussed in Note 13. Consequently , the taxability of dividends is subject to change.
 
In 2019, 2018 and 2017, we paid all of our dividends in cash.
 
The following summarizes the taxability of our common and preferred stock dividends for the years ended December 31:
 
  2019 (1)   2018   2017  
Common Stock:             
Ordinary income  $ 2.08  $ 1.34  $ 1.23 
Qualified dividend   0.00   0.03   0.01 
Capital gains   0.04   0.55   0.52 
Total distribution  $ 2.12  $ 1.92  $ 1.76 
Preferred Stock – Series Q:             
Ordinary income  $ 4.00  $ 2.98  $ 2.91 
Qualified dividend   0.01   0.06   0.08 
Capital gains   0.26   1.23   1.28 
Total dividend  $ 4.27  $ 4.27  $ 4.27
 
 
(1) Taxability for 2019 is estimated.
 
Common stock dividends are characterized for federal income tax purposes as ordinary income, qualified dividend, capital gains, non-
taxable return of capital or a combination of the four . Common stock dividends that exceed our current and accumulated earnings and
profits (calculated for tax purposes) constitute a return of capital rather than a dividend and generally reduce the stockholder ’s basis in
the common stock. To the extent that a dividend exceeds both current and accumulated earnings and profits and the stockholder ’s
basis in the common stock, it will generally be treated as a gain from the sale or exchange of that stockholder ’s common stock. At the
beginning of each year , we notify our stockholders of the taxability of the common stock dividends paid during the preceding year .
 
Pursuant to the terms of our preferred stock, we are restricted from declaring or paying any dividend with respect to our common
stock unless and until all cumulative dividends with respect to the preferred stock have been paid and suf ficient funds have been set
aside for dividends that have been declared for the relevant dividend period with respect to the preferred stock.
 
NOTE 10. PARTNERS’ CAPITAL OF PROLOGIS, L.P.
 
Distributions paid on the common limited partnership units, and the taxability of those distributions, are similar to dividends paid on the
Parent’ s common stock disclosed above.
 
On August 22, 2018, we issued 3.6 million common limited partnership units in the OP  in the DCT  Transaction. See Note 3 for more
detail on the transaction.
 
We issued Class A Units in the OP  through an acquisition of a portfolio of properties in 2015. The Class A Units generally have the
same rights as the existing common limited partnership units of the OP , except that the Class A Units are entitled to a quarterly
distribution equal to $ 0.64665  per unit so long as the common limited partnership units receive a quarterly distribution of at least $ 0.40
per unit (in the event the common limited partnership units receive a quarterly distribution of less than $0.40 per unit, the Class A Unit
distribution would be reduced by a proportionate amount). Class A Units are convertible into common limited partnership units at an
initial conversion rate of one-for-one. The conversion rate will be increased or decreased to the extent that, at the time of conversion,
the net present value of the distributions paid with respect to the Class A Units are less or more than the distributions paid on common
limited partnership units from the time of issuance of the Class A Units until the time of conversion. At December 31, 2019 and 2018,
the Class A Units were convertible into 8.1 million and 8.4 million common limited partnership units, respectively . The OP  may redeem
the Class A Units at any time after October 7, 2025, for an amount in cash equal to the then-current number of the common limited
partnership units into which the Class A Units are convertible, multiplied by $ 43.11 , subject to the holders’  right to convert the Class A
Units into common limited partnership units. Dividends paid to the Class A Units were $ 2.58660  annually during the years ended
December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017.
 
78
 
NOTE 11. NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS
 
Prologis, L.P.
 
We report noncontrolling interests related to several entities we consolidate but of which we do not own 100% of the equity . These
entities include two real estate partnerships that have issued limited partnership units to third parties. Depending on the specific
partnership agreements, these limited partnership units are redeemable for cash or , at our option, into shares of the Parent’ s common
stock, generally at a rate of one share of common stock to one limited partnership unit . We also consolidate certain entities in which
we do not own 100% of the equity but the equity of these entities is not exchangeable into our common stock.
 
As discussed in Note 1, the Parent has complete responsibility , power and discretion in the day-to-day management of the OP . The
Parent, through its majority interest, has the right to receive benefits from and incur losses of the OP . In addition, the OP  does not
have either substantive liquidation rights or substantive kick-out rights without cause or substantive participating rights that could be
exercised by a simple majority of noncontrolling interests. The absence of such rights renders the OP  as a VIE. Accordingly , the
Parent is the primary beneficiary and therefore consolidates the OP .
 
Prologis, Inc.
 
The noncontrolling interests of the Parent include the noncontrolling interests described above for the OP , as well as the limited
partnership units in the OP  that are not owned by the Parent. The outstanding limited partnership units receive quarterly cash
distributions equal to the quarterly dividends paid on our common stock pursuant to the terms of the applicable partnership
agreements.
 
The following table summarizes our ownership percentages and noncontrolling interests and the consolidated entities’  total assets and
total liabilities at December 31 (dollars in thousands):
 
 Our Ownership
Percentage   Noncontrolling
Interests   Total Assets   Total Liabilities  
 2019   2018   2019   2018   2019   2018   2019   2018  
Prologis U.S. Logistics V enture  55.0%  55.0% $2,677,846   $2,697,095   $6,077,016   $6,072,087   $99,397   $92,782  
Other consolidated entities  (1)various   various    97,548    139,374    849,620    1,045,202    85,186    53,145  
Prologis, L.P .          2,775,394    2,836,469    6,926,636    7,117,289    184,583    145,927  
Limited partners in Prologis,
L.P. (2)(3)          643,263    666,326    -   -   -   - 
Prologis, Inc.         $3,418,657   $3,502,795   $6,926,636   $7,117,289   $184,583   $145,927
 
 
(1)Includes our two partnerships that have issued limited partnership units to third parties, as discussed above, along with various
other consolidated entities. The limited partnership units outstanding at December 31, 2019 and 2018 were exchangeable into
cash or , at our option, 0.3 million and 0.7 million shares of the Parent’ s common stock, respectively .
 
(2)We had 8.6 million and 8.8 million Class A Units that were convertible into 8.1 million and 8.4 million limited partnership units of
the OP  at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively . See Note 10 for further discussion of our Class A Units.
 
(3)At December 31, 2019 and 2018, excluding the Class A Units, there were limited partnership units in the OP  that were
exchangeable into cash or , at our option, 6.2 million and 7.2 million shares of the Parent’ s common stock, respectively . Also
included are the vested OP  Long-T erm Incentive Plan Units associated with our long-term compensation plans. See further
discussion of Long-T erm Incentive Plan Units in Note 12. 
 
In January 2020, USL V acquired a portfolio of 127 operating properties aggregating 19.0 million square feet from IPT  in a cash
transaction, including the assumption of debt. Our investment in the acquisition was approximately $ 1.1 billion.
 
NOTE 12. LONG-TERM COMPENSATION
 
The 2012 Long-T erm Incentive Plan (“2012 L TIP”) provides for grants of awards to of ficers, directors, employees and consultants of
the Parent or its subsidiaries. Awards can be in the form of: full value awards, stock appreciation rights, stock options (non-qualified
options and incentive stock options) and cash incentive awards. Full value awards generally consist of: (i) common stock; (ii) restricted
stock units (“RSUs”); (iii) OP  LTIP units (“L TIP Units”) and (iv) Prologis Outperformance Plan (“POP”) OP  LTIP units (“POP  LTIP
Units”).
 
The awards under the 2012 L TIP have been issued under the following components of our equity-based compensation plans and
programs at December 31, 2019: (i) POP; (ii) Prologis Promote Plan (“PPP”); (iii) annual long-term incentive (“L TI”) equity award
program (“Annual L TI Award”); and (iv) annual bonus exchange program. Under all of these components, certain employees may elect
to receive their equity award payout either in the form of RSUs or other equity of the Parent or L TIP Units of the OP . No participant can
be granted more than 1.5 million shares of common stock under the 2012 L TIP in any one calendar year . Awards may be made under
the 2012 L TIP until it is terminated by the Board or until the ten-year anniversary of the ef fective date of the plan.
 
We have 27.2 million shares reserved for issuance, of which 14.9 million shares of common stock were available for future issuance
at December 31, 2019. Each L TIP Unit counts as one share of common  stock for purposes of calculating the limit on shares that may
be issued.
79
 
 
Equity-Based Compensation Plans and Programs
 
Prologis Outperformance Plan (“POP”)
 
We allocate participation points or a percentage of the compensation pool to participants under our POP  corresponding to three-year
performance periods beginning every January 1. The fair value of the awards is measured at the grant date and amortized over the
period from the grant date to the date at which the awards vest, which ranges from three  to ten years . The performance hurdle
(“Outperformance Hurdle”) at the end of the initial three-year performance period requires our three-year compound annualized total
stockholder return (“TSR”) to exceed a threshold set at the three-year compound annualized TSR for the Morgan Stanley Capital
International (“MSCI”) US REIT  Index for the same period plus 100 basis points. If the Outperformance Hurdle is met, a compensation
pool will be formed equal to 3% of the excess value created, subject to a maximum as defined by each performance period. POP
awards cannot be paid at a time when our absolute TSR is negative. If after seven years  our absolute TSR has not been positive, the
awards will be forfeited.
 
For the 2016 – 2018 and 2017 – 2019 performance periods, awards (“Initial Awards”), equaling in aggregate up to $ 75 million of the
applicable compensation pool, were earned after the end of the initial three-year performance period as the Outperformance Hurdle
was met. One-third of any compensation pool amount in excess of $ 75 million (up to 0.5% of our equity market capitalization) can be
earned at the end of each of the three years after the Initial Awards are earned, if our performance meets or exceeds the Index at the
end of each of such three years . In addition, participants will not be able to sell or transfer any equity they receive as awards until
three years after the end of the initial performance period .
 
Beginning with the 2018 – 2020 performance period and performance periods thereafter , the plan requires an absolute maximum cap
of $100 million on the compensation pool. If an award is earned at the end of the initial three-year  performance period, then 20% of
the POP  award is paid at the end of the initial performance period and the remaining 80% is subject to additional seven-year  cliff
vesting. The 20% that is paid at the end of the initial three-year performance period is subject to an additional three-year  holding
requirement. In 2018, our Named Executive Of ficers (“NEOs”) adopted the vesting construct of the 2018 – 2020 performance period
retroactively for the 2016 – 2018 and 2017 – 2019 performance periods. The change in vesting did not result in a remeasurement
event under the accounting rules.
 
Each participant is eligible to receive a percentage of the total compensation pool based on the number of participation points
allocated to the participant, or in the case of our NEOs, a set percentage of the compensation pool. If the performance criteria are
met, the participants’  points or compensation pool percentage will be paid in the form of common stock or POP  LTIP Units, as elected
by the participant. Annually , a participant may exchange their participation points or compensation pool percentage for POP  LTIP
Units. If the performance criteria are not met, the participants’  points, compensation pool percentage and POP  LTIP Units will be
forfeited.
 
At December 31, 2019, all awards were equity classified. W e use a Monte Carlo valuation model to value the participation points
allocated under the POP .
 
The following table details the assumptions used for each grant based on the year it was granted (dollars in thousands):
 
  2019   2018   2017  
Risk free interest rate   2.6%  2.1%  1.5%
Expected volatility   20.0%  16.5%  22.2%
Aggregate fair value  $21,200   $23,300   $20,400
 
 
Total remaining compensation cost related to the POP  at December 31, 2019, was $ 39.6 million, prior to adjustments for capitalized
amounts due to our development activities. The remaining compensation cost will be recognized through 2028, with a weighted
average period of 3.2 years.
 
The performance criteria were met for the 2017 – 2019, 2016 – 2018 and 2015 – 2017 performance periods at the end of the initial
three-year  performance period, which resulted in awards being earned in January 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively , in the form of
common stock and POP  LTIP Units. See below for details on these performance periods (dollars and units in thousands, except
average price):
 
  2017 – 2019   2016 – 2018 (1)  2015 – 2017  
Performance pool  $ 75,000   $ 88,317   $ 110,230  
Common stock shares   266   423   582 
POP  LTIP Units and L TIP Units   548   924   1,170  
Average price used to determine number of awards  $ 92.21   $ 65.57   $ 62.65
 
 
80
 
(1) The 2016  – 2018 performance period includes amounts and awards earned at December 31, 2019 related to the compensation
pool in the excess of the Initial Award.
 
Other Equity-Based Compensation Plans and Programs
 
Awards may be issued in the form of RSUs or L TIP Units at the participants’  elections under the following equity-based compensation
plans and programs. RSUs and L TIP Units are valued based on the market price of the Parent’ s common stock on the date the award
is granted and the grant date value is charged to compensation expense over the service period. Beginning with the February 2018
grants, the service period was lengthened from three  to four years , except for awards under the annual bonus exchange program.
Dividends and distributions are paid with respect to both RSUs and L TIP Units during the vesting period, and therefore they are
considered participating securities. W e do not allocate undistributed earnings to participating securities as our net earnings per share
or unit would not be materially dif ferent. The value of the dividend is charged to retained earnings for RSUs and the distribution is
charged to Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests  in the OP  for L TIP Units in the Consolidated Financial Statements of the
Parent.
 
Prologis Promote Plan (“PPP”)
 
Under the PPP , we establish a compensation pool for certain employees up to 40% of the third-party portion of promotes earned by
Prologis from the co-investment ventures. The awards may be settled in some combination of cash and full value awards, at our
election.
 
Annual LTI Equity Award Program (“Annual LTI Award”)
 
The Annual L TI Award provides for grants to certain employees subject to our performance against benchmark indices that relate to
the most recent year ’s performance.
 
Annual Bonus Exchange Program
 
Under our bonus exchange program, generally all our employees may elect to receive all or a portion of their annual cash bonus in
equity . Equity awards granted through the bonus exchange are generally valued at a premium to the cash bonus exchanged and vest
over three years, excluding the NEOs. As our NEOs do not receive a bonus exchange premium for participating in the bonus
exchange program, the equity they receive upon exchange for their cash bonuses does not have a vesting period.
 
Summary of Award Activity
 
RSUs
 
Each RSU represents the right to receive one share of common stock of the Parent.
 
The following table summarizes the activity for RSUs for the year ended December 31, 2019 (units in thousands):
 
  Unvested RSUs   Weighted Average Grant
Date Fair V alue  
Balance at January 1, 2019   1,255   $ 54.48  
Granted   648   74.58  
Vested and distributed   (681)  51.82  
Forfeited   (57)  62.93  
Balance at December 31, 2019   1,165   $ 68.44
 
 
The fair value of stock awards granted and vested was $ 46.6 million and $ 35.7 million for 2018, respectively , and $ 38.5 million and
$32.9 million for 2017, respectively , based on the weighted average grant date fair value per unit.
 
Total remaining compensation cost related to RSUs outstanding at December 31, 2019, was $ 46.0 million, prior to adjustments for
capitalized amounts due to our development activities. The remaining compensation cost will be recognized through 2023, with a
weighted average period of 1.3 years.
 
LTIP Units
 
An LTIP Unit represents a partnership interest in the OP . After vesting and the satisfaction of certain conditions, an L TIP Unit may be
exchangeable for a common limited partnership unit in the OP  and then redeemable for a share of common stock (or cash at our
option).
81
 
 
The following table summarizes the activity for L TIP Units for the year ended December 31, 2019 (units in thousands):
 
  Vested L TIP
Units   Unvested L TIP
Units   Unvested W eighted
Average Grant Date
Fair V alue  
Balance at January 1, 2019   3,293    2,177   $ 56.05  
Granted   -   1,223    75.84  
Forfeited   -   (21)  66.77  
Vested L TIP Units   1,134    (1,134 )  54.41  
Vested POP  LTIP Units  (1)   391   -  N/A 
Unvested POP  LTIP Units (1)   -   433   21.17  
Conversion to common limited partnership units   (1,104 )  -  N/A 
Balance at December 31, 2019   3,714    2,678   $ 60.06
 
 
(1) Vested and unvested units were based on the POP  performance criteria being met for the 2016 – 2018 performance period and
represented the earned award amounts. V ested and unvested units are included in the POP  award table above.
 
The fair value of stock awards granted and vested, excluding POP  awards, was $ 82.6 million and $ 41.2 million for 2018, respectively ,
and $ 53.2 million and $ 28.3 million for 2017, respectively , based on the weighted average grant date fair value per unit.
 
Total remaining compensation cost related to L TIP Units, excluding POP , at December 31, 2019, was $ 101.2  million, prior to
adjustments for capitalized amounts due to our development activities. The remaining compensation cost will be recognized through
2023, with a weighted average period of 1.4 years.
 
Stock Options
 
We have 0.1 million stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2019, with a weighted average exercise price of
$30.85  and a weighted average life of 0.9 years. The aggregate intrinsic value of exercised options was $ 11.8 million, $ 13.8 million,
and $ 28.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively . No stock options were granted in the three-
year period ended December 31, 2019.
 
Other Plans
 
The Prologis 401(k) Plan (the “401(k) Plan”) provides for matching employer contributions of $ 0.50 for every dollar contributed by an
employee, up to 6% of the employee’ s annual compensation (within the statutory compensation limit). In the 401(k) Plan, vesting in
the matching employer contributions is based on the employee’ s years of service, with 100% vesting at the completion of one year  of
service. Our contributions under the matching provisions were $ 3.0 million, $ 2.9 million and $ 2.8 million for the years ended
December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively . In January 2020, the 401(k) Plan was amended to provide for a new matching
employer contribution of $ 0.50 for every dollar contributed by an employee, up to 12% of the employee’ s annual compensation (within
the statutory compensation limit).
 
We have a non-qualified savings plan that allows highly compensated employees the opportunity to defer the receipt and income
taxation of a certain portion of their compensation in excess of the amount permitted under the 401(k) Plan. There has been no
employer matching within this plan in the three-year period ended December 31, 2019.
 
NOTE 13. INCOME TAXES
 
Components of Earnings Before Income Taxes
 
The following table summarizes the components of earnings before income taxes for the years ended December 31 (in thousands):
 
  2019   2018   2017  
Domestic  $981,188   $1,078,678   $1,207,503  
International   795,175    807,612    608,065  
Earnings before income taxes  $1,776,363   $1,886,290   $1,815,568
 
 
82
 
Summary of Current and Deferred Income Taxes
 
The following table summarizes the components of the provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31 (in thousands):
 
  2019   2018   2017  
Current income tax expense:             
U.S. federal  $ 3,232   $ 1,727   $ 214 
International   41,855    50,731    45,185  
State and local   17,209    9,424    14,215  
Total current income tax expense   62,296    61,882    59,614  
             
Deferred income tax expense (benefit):             
U.S. federal   (208)  (317)  2,533  
International   12,429    1,765    (7,538 )
Total deferred income tax expense (benefit)   12,221    1,448    (5,005 )
Total income tax expense  $74,517   $63,330   $54,609
 
 
Current Income Taxes
 
Current income tax expense incurred in international jurisdictions over the last three years was due to tax charged on the following: (i)
the contribution of real estate properties to our unconsolidated co-investment ventures and sales to third-parties; (ii) recurring and
transactional fees earned; and (iii) taxable earnings from unconsolidated co-investment ventures.
 
For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, we did not recognize any expense for uncertain tax positions.
 
During the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, cash paid for income taxes, net of refunds, was $ 62.1 million, $ 60.3
million and $ 46.7 million, respectively .
 
Deferred Income Taxes
 
The deferred income tax expense recognized in 2019 and 2018 was due to changes in temporary dif ferences and utilization of NOLs.
The deferred income tax benefit recognized in 2017 was principally due to the reversal of deferred tax liabilities from the contribution
and disposition of properties.
 
The following table summarizes the deferred income tax assets and liabilities at December 31 (in thousands):
 
  2019   2018  
Gross deferred income tax assets:         
NOL carryforwards  $287,516   $336,485  
Basis dif ference – real estate properties   42,472    55,198  
Basis dif ference – equity investments   445   5,448  
Basis dif ference – intangibles   -   1,076  
Section 163(j) interest limitation   480   4,771  
Capital loss carryforward   1   1 
Other – temporary dif ferences   2,754    3,487  
Total gross deferred income tax assets   333,668    406,466  
Valuation allowance   (299,092 )  (379,987 )
Gross deferred income tax assets, net of valuation allowance   34,576    26,479  
Gross deferred income tax liabilities:         
Basis dif ference – real estate properties   78,113    69,157  
Basis dif ference – equity investments   12,622    2,380  
Other – temporary dif ferences   1,898    2,941  
Total gross deferred income tax liabilities   92,633    74,478  
Net deferred income tax liabilities  $ 58,057   $ 47,999
 
 
At December 31, 2019, we had NOL  carryforwards as follows (in thousands):
 
 U.S.   Europe   Mexico   Japan   Other  
Gross NOL  carryforward $ 72,880   $ 652,026   $ 292,213   $ 117,500   $ 36,062  
Tax-ef fected NOL  carryforward  17,781    149,197    90,116    21,634    8,788  
Valuation allowance  (5,542 )  (143,552 )  (90,116 )  (21,634 )  (7,188 )
Net deferred tax asset – NOL
carryforward $ 12,239   
$ 5,645   
$ -  
$ -  $ 1,600  
Expiration periods 2022 – indefinite   2020 – indefinite   2020 – 2030   2020 – 2029   2020 – indefinite
 
83
 
 
The deferred tax asset valuation allowance at December 31, 2019, was adequate to reduce the total deferred tax asset to an amount
that we estimate will more likely than not be realized.
 
Liability for Uncertain Tax Positions
 
During the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, we believe that we have complied with the REIT  requirements of the
IRC. The statute of limitations for our tax returns is generally three years. As such, our tax returns that remain subject to examination
would be primarily from 2016 and thereafter .
 
The liability for uncertain tax positions was $ 3.0 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018 and consisted of estimated income tax
liabilities in Mexico for both periods.
 
NOTE 14. EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE OR UNIT
 
We determine basic earnings per share or unit based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock or units
outstanding during the period. W e compute diluted earnings per share or unit based on the weighted average number of shares or
units outstanding combined with the incremental weighted average ef fect from all outstanding potentially dilutive instruments.
 
The computation of our basic and diluted earnings per share and unit for the years ended December 31 was as follows (in thousands,
except per share and unit amounts):
 
Prologis, Inc.  2019   2018   2017  
Net earnings attributable to common stockholders – Basic  $1,566,950   $1,643,426   $1,641,931  
Net earnings attributable to exchangeable limited partnership units (1)   46,986    49,743    46,280  
Adjusted net earnings attributable to common stockholders – Diluted  $1,613,936   $1,693,169   $1,688,211  
             
Weighted average common shares outstanding – Basic   630,580    567,367    530,400  
Incremental weighted average ef fect on exchange of limited partnership units (1)   19,154    17,768    15,945  
Incremental weighted average ef fect of equity awards   5,169    5,104    5,955  
Weighted average common shares outstanding – Diluted (2)   654,903    590,239    552,300  
             
Net earnings per share attributable to common stockholders:             
Basic  $ 2.48  $ 2.90  $ 3.10 
Diluted  $ 2.46  $ 2.87  $ 3.06
 
 
Prologis, L.P .  2019   2018   2017  
Net earnings attributable to common unitholders  $1,613,615   $1,692,313   $1,686,945  
Net earnings attributable to Class A Units   (20,454 )  (24,465 )  (26,642 )
Net earnings attributable to common unitholders – Basic   1,593,161    1,667,848    1,660,303  
Net earnings attributable to Class A Units   20,454    24,465    26,642  
Net earnings attributable to exchangeable other limited partnership units   321   856   1,266  
Adjusted net earnings attributable to common unitholders – Diluted  $1,613,936   $1,693,169   $1,688,211  
             
Weighted average common partnership units outstanding – Basic   641,128    575,798    536,335  
Incremental weighted average ef fect on exchange of Class A Units   8,231    8,446    8,607  
Incremental weighted average ef fect on exchange of other limited partnership units   375   891   1,403  
Incremental weighted average ef fect of equity awards of Prologis, Inc.   5,169    5,104    5,955  
Weighted average common units outstanding – Diluted  (2)   654,903    590,239    552,300  
             
Net earnings per unit attributable to common unitholders:             
Basic  $ 2.48  $ 2.90  $ 3.10 
Diluted  $ 2.46  $ 2.87  $ 3.06
 
 
(1) The exchangeable limited partnership units include the units as discussed in Note 11. Earnings allocated to the exchangeable
OP units not held by the Parent have been included in the numerator and exchangeable common units have been included in
the denominator for the purpose of computing diluted earnings per share for all periods as the per share and unit amount is the
same.
84
 
 
(2) Our total weighted average potentially dilutive shares and units outstanding for the years ended December 31 consisted of the
following:
 
  2019   2018   2017  
 Class A Units  8,231    8,446    8,607  
 Other limited partnership units  375   891   1,403  
 Equity awards  7,933    8,175    9,183  
 Prologis, L.P .  16,539    17,512    19,193  
 Common limited partnership units  10,548    8,431    5,935  
 Prologis, Inc.  27,087    25,943    25,128
 
 
NOTE 15. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
 
Derivative Financial Instruments
 
In the normal course of business, our operations are exposed to market risks, including the ef fect of changes in foreign currency
exchange rates and interest rates. W e may enter into derivative financial instruments to of fset these underlying market risks. See Note
2 for our derivative financial instruments policy .
 
The following table presents the fair value of our derivative financial instruments recognized within Other Assets and Other Liabilities
on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31 (in thousands):
  2019   2018  
  Asset   Liability   Asset   Liability  
Undesignated derivatives                 
Foreign currency contracts                 
     Forwards                 
          Brazilian real  $ 181  $ 49  $ 80  $ - 
          British pound sterling   731   3,823    2,266    324 
          Canadian dollar   523   1,855    3,336    53 
          Chinese renminbi   -   81   -   - 
          Euro   7,135    2,034    7,895    1,922  
          Japanese yen   3,889    97   3,334    1,318  
          Mexican peso   -   -   159   - 
          Swedish krona   -   797   -   - 
                 
Interest rate swaps                 
  U.S. dollar   -   -   27   - 
                 
Designated derivatives                 
Foreign currency contracts                 
     Net investment hedges                 
          Brazilian real   -   -   -   3,165  
          British pound sterling   807   13,189    -   949 
          Canadian dollar   -   1,926    5,634    - 
                 
Interest rate swaps                 
     Cash flow hedges                 
          Euro   -   -   -   428 
Total fair value of derivatives  $ 13,266   $ 23,851   $ 22,731   $ 8,159
 
 
85
 
Undesignated Derivative Financial Instruments
 
Foreign Currency Contracts
 
The following table summarizes the activity of our undesignated foreign currency contracts for the years ended December 31 (in
millions, except for weighted average forward rates and number of active contracts):
 
 2019   2018   2017  
 CAD EUR GBP JPY SEK Other Total  CAD EUR GBP JPY Other Total  CAD EUR GBP JPY Total 
Notional amounts at
January 1 $55 $314 $118 $ 177 $ - $ 5 $669  $56 $233 $132 $ 153 $ - $574  $38 $197 $78 $ 144 $457 
New contracts  201  619  1,111  85  31  524  2,571   28  252  55  102  423  860   41  143  151  75  410 
Matured, expired or
settled
     contracts  (136) (352) (1,051) (80) -  (514) (2,133)  (29) (171) (69) (78) (418) (765)  (23) (107) (97) (66) (293)
Notional amounts
at
     December 31 $120 $581 $178 $ 182 $31 $15 $1,107  $55 $314 $118 $ 177 $ 5 $669  $56 $233 $132 $ 153 $574 
                                                         
Weighted average
forward
     rate at
December 31  1.32  1.13  1.32  103.39  9.42         1.28  1.21  1.32  105.17         1.29  1.17  1.29  106.25    
Active contracts at
     December 31  40  53  50  44  20         24  35  24  34         24  29  20  34   
 
 
The following table summarizes the undesignated derivative financial instruments exercised and associated realized and unrealized
gains (losses) in Foreign Currency and Derivative Gains (Losses), Net in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
December 31 (in millions, except for number of exercised contracts):
             
  2019   2018   2017  
Exercised contracts   115   89   44 
Realized gains (losses) on the matured, expired or settled contracts  $ 28  $ (3) $ 13 
Unrealized gains (losses) on the change in fair value of outstanding contracts  $ (10) $ 29  $ (51)
 
 
Designated Derivative Financial Instruments
 
Foreign Currency Contracts
 
The following table summarizes the activity of our foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges for the years
ended December 31 (in millions, except for weighted average forward rates and number of active contracts):
 
 2019   2018   2017  
 BRL CAD EUR GBP Total  BRL CAD EUR GBP Total  CAD GBP Total 
Notional amounts at January 1 $460 $100 $ - $127 $ 687  $ - $ 99 $ - $ - $ 99  $100 $ 46 $ 146 
New contracts  489  97  420  649  1,655   1,568  100  1,053  127  2,848   99  127  226 
Matured, expired or settled contracts  (949) (100) (420) (389) (1,858)  (1,108) (99) (1,053) -  (2,260)  (100) (173) (273)
Notional amounts at December 31 $ - $97 $ - $387 $484  $460 $100 $ - $127 $ 687  $ 99 $ - $ 99 
                                          
Weighted average forward rate
     at December 31  -  1.32  -  1.29      3.91  1.28  -  1.28      1.34  -    
Active contracts at December 31  -  2  -  5      1  2  -  2      2  -   
 
 
Interest Rate Swaps
 
The following table summarizes the activity of our interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges for the years ended December
31 (in millions):
 2019   2018   2017  
 EUR   CAD  EUR  USD  Total   CAD  
Notional amounts at January 1 $ 500  $ 271 $ - $ - $ 271  $ 271 
New contracts (1)  -   -  500  300  800   - 
Matured, expired or settled contracts (1)(2)  (500)  (271) -  (300) (571)  - 
Notional amounts at December 31 $ -  $ - $ 500 $ - $ 500  $ 271
 
 
(1) During 2018, we entered into two interest rate swap contracts with an aggregated notional amount of €400.0  million ( $499.7
million) to ef fectively fix the interest rate on our senior notes bearing a floating rate of Euribor plus 0.3% issued in January 2018.
In 2019, the interest rate swap contracts matured and in January 2020 we redeemed the senior notes.
 
(2) During 2018, we repaid CAD 201.4  million ($ 158.9  million) on our 2015 Canadian Term Loan. At that time, we settled the
interest rate swaps related to the 2015 Canadian Term Loan as we determined it was no longer probable that we would continue
to have
86
 
the future cash flows as originally hedged. As a result, the $ 12.5 million gain in AOCI/L  at the time of settlement was reclassified
to Interest Expense during 2018.
 
Designated Nonderivative Financial Instruments
 
The following table summarizes our debt and accrued interest, designated as a hedge of our net investment in international
subsidiaries at December 31 (in millions):
 
   2019    2018    2017  
British pound sterling  $ 329  $ 269  $ 436 
Euro  $ 850  $ 2,645   $ 3,620
 
 
 
The following table summarizes the unrealized gains (losses) in Foreign Currency and Derivative Gains (Losses), Net on the
remeasurement of the unhedged portion of our debt and accrued interest for the years ended December 31 (in millions):
 
             
  2019   2018   2017  
Unrealized gains (losses) on the unhedged portion  $ (64) $ 96  $ (23)
 
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
 
The change in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)  in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income during the periods
presented was due to the translation into U.S. dollars from the consolidation of the financial statements of our consolidated
subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar . The change in fair value of the ef fective portion of our derivative financial
instruments that have been designated as net investment hedges and cash flow hedges and the translation of our nonderivative
financial instruments as discussed above are also included in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss).
 
The following table presents these changes in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)  for the years ended December 31 (in thousands):
 
  2019   2018   2017  
Derivative net investment hedges  $ (22,600 ) $ 26,457   $ (12,762 )
Nonderivative net investment hedges   141,675    151,083    (477,755 )
Cumulative translation adjustment   (20,593 )  (368,130 )  553,972  
Total foreign currency translation gains (losses), net  $ 98,482   $ (190,590 ) $ 63,455  
             
Cash flow hedges  (1)  $ 4,665   $ (5,815 ) $ 12,726  
Our share of derivatives from unconsolidated co-investment ventures   (6,000 )  4,492    9,865  
Total unrealized gains (losses) on derivative contracts, net  $ (1,335 ) $ (1,323 ) $ 22,591  
Total change in other comprehensive income (loss)  $ 97,147   $ (191,913 ) $ 86,046
 
 
(1) We estimate an additional expense of $ 4.2 million will be reclassified to Interest Expense over the next 12 months from
December 31, 2019, due to the amortization of previously settled derivatives designated as cash flow hedges.
 
Fair Value Measurements
 
We have estimated the fair value of our financial instruments using available market information and valuation methodologies we
believe to be appropriate for these purposes. Considerable judgment and a high degree of subjectivity are involved in developing
these estimates and, accordingly , they are not necessarily indicative of amounts that we would realize on disposition. See Note 2 for
more information on our fair value measurements policy .
 
Fair Value Measurements on a Recurring Basis
 
At December 31, 2019 and 2018, other than the derivatives discussed previously , we did not have any significant financial assets or
financial liabilities that were measured at fair value on a recurring basis in the Consolidated Financial Statements. All of our derivatives
held at December 31, 2019 and 2018 were classified as Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy .
 
Fair Value Measurements on Nonrecurring Basis
 
Acquired properties and assets we expect to sell or contribute are significant nonfinancial assets that met the criteria to be measured
at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, as detailed in our accounting policy in Note 2. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, we estimated
the fair value of our properties using Level 2 or Level 3 inputs from the fair value hierarchy . See more information on our acquired
properties in Notes 3 and 4 and assets held for sale or contribution in Note 6.
87
 
 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
 
At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the carrying amounts of certain financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, accounts
and notes receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses were representative of their fair values.
 
The dif ferences in the fair value of our debt from the carrying value in the table below were the result of dif ferences in interest rates or
borrowing spreads that were available to us at December 31, 2019 and 2018, as compared with those in ef fect when the debt was
issued or assumed, including reduced borrowing spreads due to our improved credit ratings. The senior notes and many of the
issuances of secured mortgage debt contain prepayment penalties or yield maintenance provisions that could make the cost of
refinancing the debt at lower rates exceed the benefit that would be derived from doing so.
 
The following table reflects the carrying amounts and estimated fair values of our debt at December 31 (in thousands):
 
  2019   2018  
  Carrying V alue   Fair V alue   Carrying V alue   Fair V alue  
Credit Facilities  $ 184,255   $ 184,255   $ 50,500   $ 50,513  
Senior notes   9,660,570    10,228,715    8,304,147    8,606,864  
Term loans and unsecured other   1,441,882    1,463,841    1,921,428    1,946,335  
Secured mortgage   619,170    651,047    813,740    849,417  
Total  $ 11,905,877   $ 12,527,858   $ 11,089,815   $ 11,453,129
 
 
The fair value of the senior notes outstanding at December 31, 2019 and 2018 increased as certain issuances yielded higher interest
rates than the overall bond yields available in the market, driving a larger increase in the fair value of debt year over year .
 
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
Environmental Matters
 
A majority of the properties we acquire, including land, are subjected to environmental reviews either by us or the previous owners. In
addition, we may incur environmental remediation costs associated with certain land parcels we acquire in connection with the
development of the land. W e have acquired certain properties that may have been leased to or previously owned by companies that
discharged hazardous materials. W e establish a liability at the time of acquisition to cover such costs and adjust the liabilities as
appropriate when additional information becomes available. W e record our environmental liabilities in Other Liabilities . We purchase
various environmental insurance policies to mitigate our exposure to environmental liabilities. W e are not aware of any environmental
liabilities that would have a material adverse ef fect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
 
Indemnification Agreements
 
We may enter into agreements whereby we indemnify certain co-investment ventures, or our venture partners, outside of the U.S. for
taxes that may be assessed with respect to certain properties we contributed to these ventures. Our contributions to these ventures
are generally structured as contributions of shares of companies that own the real estate assets. Accordingly , the capital gains
associated with the step up in the value of the underlying real estate assets, for tax purposes, are deferred and transferred at
contribution. W e have generally indemnified these ventures to the extent that the ventures: (i) incur capital gains or withholding tax as
a result of a direct sale of the real estate asset, as opposed to a transaction in which the shares of the company owning the real estate
asset are transferred or sold or (ii) are required to grant a discount to the buyer of shares under a share transfer transaction as a
result of the ventures transferring the embedded capital gain tax liability to the buyer of the shares in the transaction. The agreements
limit the amount that is subject to our indemnification with respect to each property to 100% of the actual tax liabilities related to the
capital gains that are deferred and transferred by us to the ventures at the time of the initial contribution less any deferred tax assets
transferred with the property .
 
The outcome under these agreements is uncertain as it depends on the method and timing of dissolution of the related venture or
disposition of any properties by the venture. W e record liabilities related to the indemnification agreements in Other Liabilities . We
continue to monitor these agreements and the likelihood of the sale of assets that would result in recognition and will adjust the
potential liability in the future as facts and circumstances dictate.
 
Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities
 
We have issued performance and surety bonds and standby letters of credit in connection with certain development projects.
Performance and surety bonds are commonly required by public agencies from real estate developers. Performance and surety bonds
are renewable and expire on the completion of the improvements and infrastructure. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, we had $ 240.6
million and $ 212.6  million, respectively , outstanding under such arrangements.
 
We may be required under capital commitments or we may choose to make additional capital contributions to certain of our
unconsolidated entities, representing our proportionate ownership interest, should additional capital contributions be necessary to fund
88
 
development or acquisition costs, repayment of debt or operation al shortfalls. See Note 5  for further discussion related to equity
commitments to our unconsolidated co-investment ventures.
 
Litigation
 
From time to time, we are party to a variety of legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. W e believe that, with
respect to any such matters that we are currently a party to, the ultimate disposition of any such matter will not have material adverse
effect on our business, financial position or results of operations.
 
NOTE 17. BUSINESS SEGMENTS
 
Our current business strategy includes two operating segments: Real Estate Operations and Strategic Capital. W e generate
revenues, earnings, net operating income and cash flows through our segments, as follows:
 
• Real Estate Operations.  This operating segment represents the ownership and development of operating properties and is the
largest component of our revenue and earnings. W e collect rent from our customers through operating leases, including
reimbursements for the majority of our property operating costs. Each operating property is considered to be an individual
operating segment with similar economic characteristics; these properties are combined within the reportable business segment
based on geographic location. Our Real Estate Operations segment also includes development activities that lead to rental
operations, including land held for development and properties currently under development. Within this line of business, we
utilize the following: (i) our land bank; (ii) the development expertise of our local teams; and (iii) our customer relationships. Land
we own and lease to customers under ground leases, along with land and buildings we lease, is also included in this segment.
 
• Strategic Capital.  This operating segment represents the management of unconsolidated co-investment ventures. W e generate
strategic capital revenues primarily from our unconsolidated co-investment ventures through asset management and property
management services and we earn additional revenues by providing leasing, acquisition, construction, development, financing,
legal and disposition services. Depending on the structure of the venture and the returns provided to our partners, we also earn
revenues through promotes periodically during the life of a venture or upon liquidation. Each unconsolidated co-investment
venture we manage is considered to be an individual operating segment with similar economic characteristics; these ventures
are combined within the reportable business segment based on geographic location.
 
Reconciliations are presented below for: (i) each reportable business segment’ s revenues from external customers to Total Revenues ;
(ii) each reportable business segment’ s net operating income from external customers to Operating Income and Earnings Before
Income T axes ; and (iii) each reportable business segment’ s assets to Total Assets . Our chief operating decision makers rely primarily
on net operating income and similar measures to make decisions about allocating resources and assessing segment performance.
The applicable components of Total Revenues, Operating Income, Earnings Before Income T axes  and Total Assets  are allocated to
each reportable business segment’ s revenues, net operating income and assets. Items that are not directly assignable to a segment,
such as certain corporate income and expenses, are not allocated but reflected as reconciling items.
 
89
 
The following reconciliations are presented in thousands:
 
  Years Ended December 31,  
   2019    2018    2017  
Revenues:             
Real estate operations segment:             
U.S.  $2,645,194   $2,173,279   $2,025,184  
Other Americas   94,984    119,954    84,789  
Europe   44,356    54,405    73,708  
Asia   54,201    50,511    60,564  
Total real estate operations segment   2,838,735    2,398,149    2,244,245  
Strategic capital segment:             
U.S.   86,271    74,618    176,720  
Other Americas   40,347    32,434    28,494  
Europe   283,909    174,898    106,862  
Asia   81,359    124,350    61,813  
Total strategic capital segment   491,886    406,300    373,889  
             
Total revenues   3,330,621    2,804,449    2,618,134  
             
Segment net operating income:             
Real estate operations segment:             
U.S. (1)   1,953,727    1,621,665    1,519,164  
Other Americas   69,393    89,044    58,842  
Europe   27,525    34,807    51,277  
Asia   40,675    38,425    33,234  
Total real estate operations segment   2,091,320    1,783,941    1,662,517  
Strategic capital segment:             
U.S. (1)   (10,945 )  4,712    106,471  
Other Americas   27,369    19,874    16,811  
Europe   246,213    136,240    68,127  
Asia   44,588    88,434    27,339  
Total strategic capital segment   307,225    249,260    218,748  
             
Total segment net operating income   2,398,545    2,033,201    1,881,265  
             
Reconciling items:             
General and administrative expenses   (266,718 )  (238,985 )  (231,059 )
Depreciation and amortization expenses   (1,139,879 )  (947,214 )  (879,140 )
Gains on dispositions of development properties and land, net   467,577    469,817    327,528  
Gains on other dispositions of investments in real estate, net   390,241    371,179    855,437  
Operating income   1,849,766    1,687,998    1,954,031  
Earnings from unconsolidated entities, net   200,178    298,260    248,567  
Interest expense   (239,953 )  (229,141 )  (274,486 )
Interest and other income, net   24,213    14,663    13,731  
Foreign currency and derivative gains (losses), net   (41,715 )  117,096    (57,896 )
Losses on early extinguishment of debt, net   (16,126 )  (2,586 )  (68,379 )
Earnings before income taxes  $1,776,363   $1,886,290   $1,815,568
 
 
 
 
 
90
 
  December 31,  
   2019    2018  
Segment assets:         
Real estate operations segment:         
U.S.  $27,999,868   $27,666,200  
Other Americas   1,332,237    1,712,862  
Europe   1,379,579    1,040,061  
Asia   879,072    1,012,253  
Total real estate operations segment   31,590,756    31,431,376  
Strategic capital segment (2):         
U.S.   14,529    15,802  
Europe   25,280    25,280  
Asia   359   455 
Total strategic capital segment   40,168    41,537  
Total segment assets   31,630,924    31,472,913  
         
Reconciling items:         
Investments in and advances to unconsolidated entities   6,237,371    5,745,294  
Assets held for sale or contribution   720,685    622,288  
Lease right-of-use assets   111,439    - 
Cash and cash equivalents   1,088,855    343,856  
Other assets   242,576    233,313  
Total reconciling items   8,400,926    6,944,751  
Total assets  $40,031,850   $38,417,664
 
 
(1) This includes compensation, personnel costs and PPP  awards for employees who were located in the U.S. but also support
other geographies.
 
(2) Represents management contracts and goodwill recorded in connection with business combinations associated with the
Strategic Capital segment. Goodwill was $25.3 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018.
 
NOTE 18. SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION
 
Our significant noncash investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 included the
following:
 
• We recognized Lease ROU Assets  and Lease Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, including any new leases,
renewals, modifications and terminations after January 1, 2019 of $ 523.8  million and $ 527.3  million, respectively , related to
leases in which we are the lessee.
 
• We capitalized $ 21.4 million, $ 26.4 million and $ 28.8 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively , of equity-based
compensation expense. Beginning January 1, 2019, upon adoption of the new lease standard, we capitalized equity-based
compensation expenses related to development activities only . Internal costs related to our leasing activities are expensed as
incurred.
 
• We received $ 646.8  million, $ 386.7  million and $ 153.3  million of ownership interests in certain unconsolidated co-investment
ventures as a portion of our proceeds from the contribution of properties to these entities during 2019, 2018 and 2017,
respectively , as disclosed in Note 5. Included in 2019 was our initial 20.0% investment in PBL V in exchange for our contribution
of the initial portfolio of properties to PBL V upon formation.
 
• An unconsolidated co-investment venture in Europe declared a distribution of $ 80.9 million which we subsequently reinvested
and increased our ownership in 2019.
 
• We and our existing partner in Prologis China Logistics V enture I, LP  received equity interests in PCCLF for the contribution of
the existing portfolio of assets in 2019. Our ownership percentage in PCCLF was 15.6% subsequent to the contribution.
 
• We purchased our partners’  interest in a consolidated venture through the distribution of an operating property for $ 11.4 million
in 2019. W e formed a consolidated venture into which our partner contributed $ 11.8 million of land in 2018.
 
• We issued 1.2 million and  1.5  million shares in 2019 and 2017, respectively , of the Parent’ s common stock upon redemption of
an equal number of common limited partnership units in the OP .
 
• We completed the DCT  Transaction on August 22, 2018 for $ 8.5 billion through the issuance of equity and the assumption of
debt. See Note 3 for more information on this transaction.
 
91
 
• We contributed operating properties owned by NAIF to USLF in 2017. As a result, we received $ 1.1 billion of units or ownership
interest in USLF as a portion of our proceeds from this contribution. In addition, USLF acquired the $ 19.5 million note receivable
backed by real estate we received in 2017 and assumed $ 956.0  million of secured mortgage debt.
 
• We received $ 53.8 million of notes receivable backed by real estate in exchange for the disposition of real estate in 2017 .
 
92
 
NOTE 19. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
 
The following table details our selected quarterly financial data (in thousands, except per share and unit data):
 
  Three Months Ended  
Prologis, Inc.  March 31,   June 30,   September 30,   December 31,  
2019:                 
Rental revenues  $696,807   $700,689   $ 710,465   $ 723,857  
Total revenues  $772,052   $790,372   $ 942,181   $ 826,016  
Rental expenses  $(188,068 ) $(181,138 ) $ (180,864 ) $ (184,196 )
Gains on dispositions of development properties and land, net  $ 42,441   $196,941   $ 63,935   $ 164,260  
Gains on other dispositions of investments in real estate, net  $145,767   $ 27,254   $ 59,379   $ 157,841  
Operating income  $376,590   $442,056   $ 471,480   $ 559,640  
Consolidated net earnings  $373,765   $410,826   $ 491,013   $ 426,242  
Net earnings attributable to common stockholders  $347,047   $383,784   $ 450,639   $ 385,480  
Net earnings per share attributable to common
     stockholders – Basic (1)  $ 0.55  $ 0.61  $ 0.71  $ 0.61 
Net earnings per share attributable to common
     stockholders – Diluted (1)(2)  $ 0.55  $ 0.60  $ 0.71  $ 0.61 
2018:                 
Rental revenues  $555,943   $544,679   $ 608,974   $ 679,195  
Total revenues  $693,656   $621,276   $ 682,432   $ 807,085  
Rental expenses  $(142,941 ) $(133,329 ) $ (147,184 ) $ (177,194 )
Gains on dispositions of development properties and land, net  $157,568   $ 63,669   $ 108,049   $ 140,531  
Gains on other dispositions of investments in real estate, net  $ 37,543   $ 30,592   $ 86,009   $ 217,035  
Operating income  $432,218   $281,555   $ 375,579   $ 598,646  
Consolidated net earnings  $391,959   $364,991   $ 375,520   $ 690,490  
Net earnings attributable to common stockholders  $365,902   $334,611   $ 346,345   $ 596,568  
Net earnings per share attributable to common
     stockholders – Basic  (1)  $ 0.69  $ 0.63  $ 0.60  $ 0.95 
Net earnings per share attributable to common
     stockholders – Diluted  (1)(2)  $ 0.68  $ 0.62  $ 0.60  $ 0.94 
                 
Prologis, L.P .                 
2019:                 
Rental revenues  $696,807   $700,689   $ 710,465   $ 723,857  
Total revenues  $772,052   $790,372   $ 942,181   $ 826,016  
Rental expenses  $(188,068 ) $(181,138 ) $ (180,864 ) $ (184,196 )
Gains on dispositions of development properties and land, net  $ 42,441   $196,941   $ 63,935   $ 164,260  
Gains on other dispositions of investments in real estate, net  $145,767   $ 27,254   $ 59,379   $ 157,841  
Operating income  $376,590   $442,056   $ 471,480   $ 559,640  
Consolidated net earnings  $373,765   $410,826   $ 491,013   $ 426,242  
Net earnings attributable to common unitholders  $357,621   $395,470   $ 463,997   $ 396,527  
Net earnings per unit attributable to common unitholders –
     Basic (1)  $ 0.55  $ 0.61  $ 0.71  $ 0.61 
Net earnings per unit attributable to common unitholders –
     Diluted (1)(2)  $ 0.55  $ 0.60  $ 0.71  $ 0.61 
2018:                 
Rental revenues  $555,943   $544,679   $ 608,974   $ 679,195  
Total revenues  $693,656   $621,276   $ 682,432   $ 807,085  
Rental expenses  $(142,941 ) $(133,329 ) $ (147,184 ) $ (177,194 )
Gains on dispositions of development properties and land, net  $157,568   $ 63,669   $ 108,049   $ 140,531  
Gains on other dispositions of investments in real estate, net  $ 37,543   $ 30,592   $ 86,009   $ 217,035  
Operating income  $432,218   $281,555   $ 375,579   $ 598,646  
Consolidated net earnings  $391,959   $364,991   $ 375,520   $ 690,490  
Net earnings attributable to common unitholders  $376,425   $344,633   $ 356,765   $ 614,490  
Net earnings per unit attributable to common unitholders –
     Basic  (1)  $ 0.69  $ 0.63  $ 0.60  $ 0.95 
Net earnings per unit attributable to common unitholders –
     Diluted  (1)(2)  $ 0.68  $ 0.62  $ 0.60  $ 0.94
 
 
(1)Quarterly earnings per common share or unit amounts may not total to the annual amounts due to rounding and the changes in
the number of weighted average common shares or units outstanding included in the calculation of basic and diluted shares or
units.
93
 
 
(2)Income allocated to the exchangeable OP  units not held by the Parent has been included in the numerator and exchangeable
OP units have been included in the denominator for the purpose of computing diluted earnings per share for all periods since
the per share and unit is the same.
 
NOTE 20. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
 
Acquisition of Liberty Property Trust
 
On February 4, 2020, Liberty , Liberty OP  and New Liberty Holdco merged with and into Prologis, Inc., Prologis L.P ., Prologis Merger
Sub and Prologis OP  Merger Sub, pursuant to which, (i) an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Liberty merged with and into Liberty ,
with Liberty continuing as the surviving entity and an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of New Liberty Holdco (the “Company Merger”),
(ii) thereafter , New Liberty Holdco merged with and into Prologis Merger Sub, with Prologis Merger Sub continuing as the surviving
entity and remaining a wholly owned subsidiary of Prologis, Inc. (the “T opco Merger”), (iii) thereafter , Prologis, Inc. and its applicable
subsidiaries and Prologis Merger Sub caused all of the outstanding equity interests of Liberty to be contributed to Prologis L.P . in
exchange for the issuance by Prologis L.P . of Prologis L.P . common units to other subsidiaries of Prologis, Inc. and (iv) thereafter ,
Prologis L.P . Merger Sub merged with and into Liberty OP , with Liberty OP  continuing as the surviving entity and a wholly owned
subsidiary of Prologis L.P . (the “Partnership Merger” and, collectively with the Company Merger and the Topco Merger , the “Mergers”).
The total acquisition price was approximately $ 13 billion through the issuance of equity based on the value of the Prologis common
stock issued using the closing price on February 3, 2020 and the assumption of debt.
 
In connection with the transaction, at the ef fective time of the Topco Merger , each issued and outstanding Liberty common share as of
immediately prior to the Company Merger was converted automatically into the right to receive 0.675  shares of Prologis, Inc. common
stock. At the ef fective time of the Partnership Merger , each issued and outstanding common unit of Liberty OP  as of immediately prior
to the Partnership Merger was converted into 0.675  common units of Prologis L.P . After consideration of all applicable factors
pursuant to the business combination accounting rules, we expect to treat the Mergers as an asset acquisition and as a result the
transaction costs will likely be capitalized to the basis of the acquired properties.
 
In connection with the Mergers, on November 27, 2019, Liberty and Liberty’ s board of directors (the “Liberty Board”) were sued in a
putative class action lawsuit, the Stein Action, filed in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland, in connection with
Liberty’ s proposed merger with Prologis and the related Form S-4. On December 5, 2019, Liberty , Liberty OP , the Liberty board,
Prologis, Inc., Prologis L.P ., Prologis Merger Sub, Prologis OP  Merger Sub and New Liberty Holdco were sued in another putative
class action lawsuit, the Thompson  Action, also filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, and also in
connection with Liberty’ s proposed merger with Prologis and the related Form S-4. On December 16, 2019, Liberty and the Liberty
Board were sued in a third putative class action lawsuit, the Berlinger Action, filed in the United States District Court for the District of
Maryland, also in connection with Liberty’ s proposed merger with Prologis and the related Form S-4. On December 16, 2019,
Prologis, Liberty and the Liberty Board were sued in a fourth putative class action lawsuit, the Garfield Action, filed in the Court of
Common Pleas of Dauphin County , Pennsylvania, also in connection with Liberty’ s proposed merger with Prologis and the related
Form S-4. Subsequently , in January 2020, the plaintif f in the Garfield Action agreed to dismiss his action with prejudice as to himself
and without prejudice as to the remainder of the purported class. On December 19, 2019, Liberty and the Liberty Board were sued in
a fifth putative class action lawsuit, the McDonough Action, filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey , also
in connection with Liberty’ s proposed merger with Prologis and the related Form S-4. On December 20, 2019, Liberty and the Liberty
Board were sued in a sixth putative class action lawsuit, the Hagerty Action, filed in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York, also in connection with Liberty’ s proposed merger with Prologis and the related Form S-4. On January 7, 2020,
Liberty and the Liberty Board were sued in a seventh putative class action lawsuit, the Yonchuk Action, filed in in the United States
District Court for the District of Maryland, in connection with Liberty’ s proposed merger with Prologis and the related Form S-4.
 
The complaints in the Stein Action, Berlinger Action, McDonough Action, Hagerty Action and Yonchuk  Action allege that Liberty and
the Liberty Board violated federal securities laws by omitting material information from the Form S-4, rendering the Form S-4
materially deficient. The complaint in the Thompson Action alleges the Liberty , Liberty OP  and the Liberty Board violated federal
securities laws by omitting from the Form S-4, and misrepresenting in the Form S-4, material information, rendering the Form S-4
materially deficient.
 
In all six outstanding actions, the plaintif fs seek, among other things, (i) rescission of the transaction and/or (ii) damages, and
(iii) attorneys' fees and costs in connection with these lawsuits. Although the ultimate outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with
certainty , we believe that these lawsuits are without merit and intend to defend against these actions vigorously .
 
94
 
PROLOGIS, INC. AND PROLOGIS, L.P .
SCHEDULE III – REAL  EST ATE AND ACCUMULA TED DEPRECIA TION
DECEMBER 31, 2019
(In thousands of U.S. dollars, as applicable)
 
       Initial Cost to
Prologis   Costs
Capitalized  Gross Amounts at Which Carried
at December 31, 2019        
DescriptionNo. of
Bldgs.  Encum-
brances Land  Building &
Improvements  Subsequent
to
Acquisition  Land  Building &
Improvements  Total
(a,b)   Accumulated
Depreciation
(c)   Date of
Construction/
Acquisition
Operating Properties (d)                                    
                                    
U.S. Markets                                    
Atlanta 101  (d)  216,372   829,879   272,839   218,105   1,100,985   1,319,090   (206,478) 1994-2019
Austin 10     12,783   52,335   7,859   12,837   60,140   72,977   (22,921) 1994-2015
Baltimore/Washington D.C. 52  (d)  140,823   384,274   149,324   141,824   532,597   674,421   (98,377) 1995-2019
Central and Eastern
Pennsylvania 42     252,910   843,408   185,974   258,473   1,023,819   1,282,292   (197,112) 2002-2018
Central Valley 30  (d)  145,885   386,853   512,850   156,628   888,960   1,045,588   (152,639) 1999-2019
Charlotte 16  (d)  15,202   32,889   60,584   17,465   91,210   108,675   (40,658) 1994-2015
Chicago 186  (d)  585,670   1,858,769   358,871   597,329   2,205,981   2,803,310   (518,779) 1995-2019
Cincinnati 28  (d)  51,705   197,745   101,688   54,820   296,318   351,138   (46,498) 1996-2019
Columbus 23  (d)  24,685   121,369   52,230   25,078   173,206   198,284   (75,937) 1996-2015
Dallas/Fort Worth 135  (d)  250,306   1,010,176   298,476   252,403   1,306,555   1,558,958   (324,685) 1994-2019
Denver 35     92,128   295,412   103,038   90,534   400,044   490,578   (106,338) 1993-2019
Houston 105  (d)  171,533   713,667   140,145   171,601   853,744   1,025,345   (164,396) 1993-2018
Indianapolis 19     15,970   85,015   42,463   15,970   127,478   143,448   (47,598) 1995-2018
Jacksonville 1     -   2,892   273   -   3,165   3,165   (2,221) 2011
Kansas City 2     -   14,411   202   -   14,613   14,613   (8,891) 2011
Las Vegas 50     114,573   261,616   156,548   109,231   423,506   532,737   (76,356) 1996-2018
Louisville 11     42,979   226,263   45,185   43,285   271,142   314,427   (64,026) 2005-2015
Nashville 22     61,699   268,238   44,912   63,288   311,561   374,849   (45,442) 1995-2019
New Jersey/New York City 106  (d)  864,493   1,514,057   476,276   862,577   1,992,249   2,854,826   (494,401) 1996-2019
Orlando 48     82,256   320,781   65,185   82,683   385,539   468,222   (75,025) 1994-2018
Phoenix 29     48,572   176,656   50,042   48,563   226,707   275,270   (53,561) 1992-2018
Portland 17  (e)  37,921   104,290   19,199   36,583   124,827   161,410   (29,923) 2006-2019
Reno 17  (d)  23,919   143,324   88,307   25,393   230,157   255,550   (68,685) 1994-2015
San Antonio 20  (d)  25,735   95,828   40,425   25,958   136,030   161,988   (51,898) 1994-2016
San Francisco Bay Area 211  (d)  816,163   1,523,357   321,069   821,459   1,839,130   2,660,589   (589,850) 1993-2019
Seattle 87  (e)  592,228   977,905   287,168   612,918   1,244,383   1,857,301   (178,380) 2008-2019
South Florida 99  (d)  369,762   746,107   198,663   375,397   939,135   1,314,532   (206,516) 1994-2019
Southern California 309  (d)(e)  2,545,605   3,857,820   921,231   2,626,752   4,697,904   7,324,656   (1,144,891) 2005-2019
Subtotal U.S. Markets:  1,811     7,601,877   17,045,336   5,001,026   7,747,154   21,901,085   29,648,239   (5,092,482)  
                                    
Other Americas Markets                                    
Canada 32  (d)  220,424   381,013   264,917   246,296   620,058   866,354   (109,179) 2008-2019
Mexico  10     100,826   2,287   124,353   105,421   122,045   227,466   (3,921) 2011-2019
Subtotal Other Americas
Markets:  42     321,250   383,300   389,270   351,717   742,103   1,093,820   (113,100)  
                                    
Europe Markets                                    
France 5     9,629   4,804   41,476   8,360   47,549   55,909   (2,985) 2012-2019
Germany 2     10,437   5,418   601   10,437   6,019   16,456   (3,689) 2011
Spain 5     6,396   36,341   12,280   6,696   48,321   55,017   (13,203) 2011-2017
U.K. 2     58,255   27,775   1,969   58,259   29,740   87,999   (1,679) 2018-2019
Subtotal Europe Markets: 14     84,717   74,338   56,326   83,752   131,629   215,381   (21,556)  
                                    
Asia Markets                                    
China 2     1,372   8,320   109   1,148   8,653   9,801   (2,376) 2011
Japan 2  (d)  33,871   -   145,682   36,437   143,116   179,553   (10,094) 2016-2019
Singapore 5     -   137,142   3,897   -   141,039   141,039   (54,604) 2011
Subtotal Asia Markets:  9     35,243   145,462   149,688   37,585   292,808   330,393   (67,074)  
Total Operating Properties  1,876     8,043,087   17,648,436   5,596,310   8,220,208   23,067,625   31,287,833   (5,294,212)  
 
95
 
PROLOGIS, INC. AND PROLOGIS, L.P .
SCHEDULE III – REAL  EST ATE AND ACCUMULA TED DEPRECIA TION
DECEMBER 31, 2019
(In thousands of U.S. dollars, as applicable)
 
       Initial Cost to
Prologis   Costs
Capitalized  Gross Amounts at Which Carried
at December 31, 2019       Date of
DescriptionNo. of
Bldgs.  Encum-
brances Land  Building &
Improvements  Subsequent
to
Acquisition  Land  Building &
Improvements  Total
(a,b)   Accumulated
Depreciation
(c)   Construction/
Acquisition
(f)
Development Portfolio                                    
                                    
U.S. Markets                                    
Atlanta 1     3,209   -   451   3,209   451   3,660       
Baltimore/Washington D.C. 2     4,005   -   9,125   4,005   9,125   13,130       
Central Valley 3     14,705   -   60,894   14,705   60,894   75,599      2019
Chicago 3     11,839   -   25,166   11,839   25,166   37,005      2019
Cincinnati 1     750   119   8,232   750   8,351   9,101      2019
Dallas/Fort Worth 5     4,926   -   25,566   4,926   25,566   30,492      2019
Denver 2     13,845   -   31,182   13,845   31,182   45,027      2019
Houston 1     1,672   -   2,401   1,672   2,401   4,073       
Indianapolis 1     1,969   -   -   1,969   -   1,969       
Las Vegas 2     17,544   -   29,391   17,544   29,391   46,935      2019
Louisville 1     1,788   -   351   1,788   351   2,139       
Nashville 1     5,668   -   17,106   5,668   17,106   22,774      2019
New Jersey/New York City 1  (d)  40,963   -   37,821   40,963   37,821   78,784      2019
Orlando 4     24,340   -   16,852   24,340   16,852   41,192       
Phoenix 8     43,651   -   42,841   43,651   42,841   86,492      2019
Portland 2     12,959   -   3,588   12,959   3,588   16,547       
Reno 1     1,471   -   1,207   1,471   1,207   2,678       
San Francisco Bay Area 6     44,177   7,532   77,060   44,177   84,592   128,769      2019
Seattle 2     31,495   -   19,116   31,495   19,116   50,611       
South Florida 2     15,145   -   25,037   15,145   25,037   40,182      2019
Southern California 5     38,264   -   135,409   38,264   135,409   173,673       
Subtotal U.S. Markets:  54     334,385   7,651   568,796   334,385   576,447   910,832       
                                    
Other Americas Markets                                    
Canada 1     10,346   -   1,408   10,346   1,408   11,754       
Mexico 4     25,890   -   26,911   25,890   26,911   52,801      2019
Subtotal Other Americas
Markets:  5     36,236   -   28,319   36,236   28,319   64,555       
                                    
Europe Markets                                    
Czech Republic 2     7,176   -   18,356   7,176   18,356   25,532      2019
France 4     14,108   -   30,327   14,108   30,327   44,435      2019
Germany 4     16,456   -   27,540   16,456   27,540   43,996      2019
Italy 7     42,451   -   17,010   42,451   17,010   59,461       
Netherlands 7     31,468   -   47,771   31,468   47,771   79,239      2019
Poland 4     11,318   -   35,792   11,318   35,792   47,110      2019
Slovakia 2     4,614   -   29,756   4,614   29,756   34,370      2019
Spain 1     10,184   -   11,259   10,184   11,259   21,443      2019
Sweden 1     6,054   -   4,550   6,054   4,550   10,604       
U.K. 7     124,163   -   17,672   124,163   17,672   141,835       
Subtotal Europe Markets:  39     267,992   -   240,033   267,992   240,033   508,025       
                                    
Asia Markets                                    
Japan 7  (d)  164,827   -   221,028   164,827   221,028   385,855      2019
Subtotal Asia Markets:  7     164,827   -   221,028   164,827   221,028   385,855       
Total Development Portfolio  105     803,440   7,651   1,058,176   803,440   1,065,827   1,869,267       
                                    
GRAND TOTAL  1,981     8,846,527   17,656,087   6,654,486   9,023,648   24,133,452   33,157,100   (5,294,212)  
 
Schedule III – Footnotes
 
(a) The following table reconciles real estate assets per Schedule III to the Consolidated Balance Sheets in Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data at December 31, 2019 (in thousands):
 
 Total operating properties and development portfolio per Schedule III  $ 33,157,100  (g)
 Land   1,101,646   
 Other real estate investments   965,668   
 Total per Consolidated Balance Sheets  $ 35,224,414  
 
 
(b) The aggregate cost for federal tax purposes at December 31, 2019, of our real estate assets was approximately $ 23.5 billion
(unaudited).
 
(c) Real estate assets (excluding land balances) are depreciated over their estimated useful lives. These useful lives are generally
5 to 7 years for capital improvements, 10 years for standard tenant improvements, 15 to 25 years for depreciable land
96
 
improvements, 25 to 35 years  for operating properties acquired based on the age of the building and 40 years  for operating
properties we develop.
 
The following table reconciles accumulated depreciation per Schedule III to the Consolidated Balance Sheets in Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data at December 31, 2019 (in thousands):
 
Total accumulated depreciation per Schedule III  $ 5,294,212  (g)
Accumulated depreciation on other real estate investments   143,450   
Total per Consolidated Balance Sheets  $ 5,437,662  
 
 
(d) Properties with an aggregate undepreciated cost of $ 1.7 billion secure $ 557.0  million of mortgage notes. See Note 8 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for more information related to our
secured mortgage debt.
 
(e) Assessment bonds of $ 10.9 million are secured by assessments (similar to property taxes) on various underlying real estate
properties with an aggregate undepreciated cost of $ 601.9  million. The assessment bonds are included in term loans and
unsecured other debt in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data.
 
(f) Date of construction is provided for properties in the development portfolio that were completed but not yet stabilized.
 
(g)The following table summarizes our real estate assets and accumulated depreciation per Schedule III for the years ended
December 31 (in thousands):
 
   2019   2018   2017  
 Real estate assets:             
 Balance at beginning of year  $32,774,956   $24,178,816   $25,375,539  
 Acquisitions of and improvements to operating properties, development
     activity and net ef fect of changes in foreign exchange rates and other   2,821,919    10,106,651    2,680,484  
 Basis of operating properties disposed of   (1,471,764 )  (1,461,458 )  (3,697,798 )
 Change in the development portfolio balance, including the acquisition of
     properties   (273,534 )  549,312    161,408  
 Assets transferred to held for sale and contribution   (694,477 )  (598,365 )  (340,817 )
 Balance at end year  $33,157,100   $32,774,956   $24,178,816  
              
 Accumulated depreciation:             
 Balance at beginning of year  $4,550,958   $3,971,501   $3,679,479  
 Depreciation expense   843,872    703,215    614,756  
 Balances retired upon disposition of operating properties and net ef fect of
     changes in foreign exchange rates and other   (77,583 )  (119,029 )  (313,584 )
 Assets transferred to held for sale and contribution   (23,035 )  (4,729 )  (9,150 )
 Balance at end of year  $5,294,212   $4,550,958   $3,971,501
 
 
 
 
97
 
Certain of the following documents are filed herewith. Certain other of the following documents that have been previously filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission and, pursuant to Rule 12b-32, are incorporated herein by reference.
 
2.1a
 Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger , dated as of August 20, 2019, among Industrial Property Trust
Inc., Prologis, L.P . and Rockies Acquisition LLC. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to Prologis’  Current Report
From 8-K/A  filed on August 23, 2019).
 
2.2a
 Agreement and Plan of Merger , dated as of July 15, 2019, by and among Prologis, L.P ., Rockies Acquisition LLC, and
Industrial Property Trust Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to Prologis’  Current Report From 8-K filed on July
15, 2019).
 
2.3a
 Agreement and Plan of Merger , dated as of October 27, 2019, by and among the Prologis Parties and the Liberty
Parties. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to Prologis’  Current Report form 8-K filed on October 27, 2019).
 
3.1
 Articles of Incorporation of Prologis (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Prologis’  Registration Statement on
Form S-11 (No. 333-35915) filed September 18, 1997).
 
3.2  Articles Supplementary establishing and fixing the rights and preferences of the Series Q Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Stock of Prologis (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.4 to Prologis’  Registration Statement on Form 8-A
filed June 2, 2011).
 
3.3  Articles of Merger of New Pumpkin Inc., a Maryland corporation, with and into Prologis, Inc., a Maryland corporation,
changing the name of “AMB Property Corporation” to “Prologis, Inc.”, as filed with the Stated Department of
Assessments and Taxation of Maryland on June 2, 2011, and ef fective June 3, 2011 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3.1 to Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 8, 2011).
 
3.4  Articles of Amendment (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 8,
2012).
 
3.5  Thirteenth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Operating Partnership (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 3.6 to Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 8, 2011).
 
3.6  First Amendment to Thirteenth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Prologis, L.P ., dated
February 27, 2014, (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February
27, 2014).
 
3.7  Second Amendment to the Thirteenth Amended and Restated Agreement of the Limited Partnership of Prologis, L.P .,
dated October 7, 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October
13, 2015).
 
3.8  Amended and Restated Certificate of Limited Partnership of the Operating Partnership (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3.7 to Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 8, 2011).
 
3.9  Articles Supplementary dated April 3, 2014, (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Prologis’  Current Report on Form
8-K filed on April 3, 2014).
 
3.10  Eighth Amended and Restated Bylaws of Prologis, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Prologis’  Current
Report on Form 8-K filed on September 23, 2016).
 
3.11  Third Amendment to Thirteenth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Prologis, L.P . (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 4, 2020).
 
4.1†  Description of Registrant’ s Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
   
4.2  Form of Certificate for Common Stock of Prologis (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Prologis’  Registration
Statement on Form S-4/A  (No. 333-172741) filed April 12, 2011).
 
4.3  Form of Certificate for the Series Q Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock of Prologis (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.2 to Prologis’  Registration Statement on Form S-4/A  (No. 333-172741) filed April 28, 2011).
 
4.4  Indenture, dated as of June 8, 2011, by and among the Operating Partnership, as issuer , Prologis, as guarantor , and
U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Prologis’  Registration Statement
on Form S-3 (No. 333-177112) filed September 30, 2011).
 
4.5  Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 15, 2013, among Prologis, Inc., Prologis, L.P . and U.S. Bank National
Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed August 15, 2013).
 
98
 
4.6  Form of Sixth Supplemental Indenture among Prologis, Inc., Prologis, L.P ., Elavon Financial Services Limited, UK
Branch, Elavon Financial Services Limited and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1
to Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 2, 2013).
 
4.7  Form of Seventh Supplemental Indenture among Prologis, Inc., Prologis, L.P ., Elavon Financial Services Limited, UK
Branch, Elavon Financial Services Limited and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1
to Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 18, 2014).
 
4.8  Form of Eighth Supplemental Indenture among Prologis, Inc., Prologis, L.P ., U.S. Bank National Association and Elavon
Financial Services DAC, UK Branch (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K filed
on June 6, 2017).
 
4.9  Indenture dated as of August 1, 2018 among Prologis Euro Finance LLC, Prologis, L.P . and U.S. Bank National
Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Prologis’  Registration Statement on Form 8-K/A  filed
on August 1, 2018).
 
4.10  First Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 1, 2018 among Prologis Euro Finance LLC, Prologis, L.P ., U.S. Bank
National Association, as trustee, transfer agent and security registrar and Elavon Financial Services DAC, UK Branch, as
paying agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Prologis’  Registration Statement on Form 8-K/A  filed on August
1, 2018).
 
4.11  Form of lndenture dated as of September 25, 2018 among Prologis Yen Finance LLC, Prologis, L.P . and U.S. Bank
National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.9 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K/A  filed on
September 24, 2018).
 
4.12  Form of First Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 25, 2018 among Prologis Yen Finance LLC, Prologis, L.P .,
U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, transfer agent, paying agent and security registrar (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4.10 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K/A  filed on September 24, 2018).
 
4.13  Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of March 26, 2019 among Prologis Yen Finance LLC, Prologis, L.P . and U.S.
Bank National Association as trustee, transfer agent, paying agent and security registrar (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.1 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K filed on April 23, 2019).
   
4.14  Form of 2.750% Notes due 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed
August 15, 2013).
 
4.15  Form of 4.250% Notes due 2023 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed
August 15, 2013).
 
4.16  3.350% Notes due 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed
November 1, 2013).
 
4.17  Form of 3.000% Notes due 2022 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed
December 2, 2013).
 
4.18  Form of 3.375% Notes due 2024 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed
February 18, 2014).
 
4.19  Form of 3.00% Notes due 2026 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
May 28, 2014).
 
4.20  Form of 1.375% Notes due 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed
on October 6, 2014).
 
4.21  Form of 1.375% Notes due 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed
May 12, 2015).
 
4.22  Form of 3.750% Notes due 2025 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed
October 30, 2015).
 
4.23  Form of Floating Rate Notes due 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K
filed on January 26, 2018).
 
4.24  Form of 2.250% Notes due 2029 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K filed on
June 6, 2017).
 
99
 
4.25  Form of Floating Rate Notes due 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K
filed on January 26, 2018).
 
4.26  Form of 3.875% Notes Due 2028 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K filed on
June 20, 2018).
 
4.27  Form of 4.375% Notes Due 2048 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K filed on
June 20, 2018).
 
4.28  Form of 1.875% Notes Due 2029 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K filed on
July 31, 2018).
 
4.29  Form of 0.652% Notes due 2025 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K/A  filed
on September 24, 2018).
 
4.30  Form of 0.972% Notes due 2028 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K/A  filed
on September 24, 2018).
 
4.31  Form of 1.077% Notes due 2030 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K/A  filed
on September 24, 2018).
 
4.32  Form of 1.470% Notes due 2038 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K/A  filed
on September 24, 2018).
 
4.33  Form of 1.15% Notes due 2039 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 10-Q filed on
April 23, 2019).
   
4.34  Form of 0.250% Notes due 2027 9incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Prologis’  Registration Statement 8-A12B
filed on September 10, 2019).
   
4.35  Form of 0.625% Notes due 2031 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Prologis’  Registration Statement 8-A12B
filed on September 10, 2019).
   
4.36  Form of 1.500% Notes due 2049 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to Prologis’  Registration Statement 8-A12B
filed on September 10, 2019).
   
4.37  Form of Of ficers’  Certificate related to the 3.375% Notes due 2024 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Prologis’
Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 18, 2014).
 
4.38  Form of Of ficer’s Certificate related to the 3.00% Notes due 2026 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Prologis’
Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 28, 2014).
 
4.39  Form of Of ficer’s Certificate related to 1.375% Notes due 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Prologis’
Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 6, 2014).
 
4.40  Form of Of ficers’  Certificate related to the 1.375% Notes due 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of Prologis’
Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 12, 2015).
 
4.41  Form of Of ficers’  Certificate related to the 3.750% Notes due 2025 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Prologis’
Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 30, 2015).
 
4.42  Form of Of ficers’  Certificate related to 2.250% Notes due 2029 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Prologis’
Current Report Form 8-K filed on June 6, 2017).
 
4.43  Form of Of ficers’  Certificate related to Floating Rate Notes due 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K filed on January 26, 2018.
 
4.44 Form of Of ficer’s Certificate related to 3.875% Notes Due 2028 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Prologis’
Current Report Form 8-K/A  filed on June 20, 2018).
 
4.45 Form of Of ficer’s Certificate related to 4.375% Notes Due 2048 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Prologis’
Current Report Form 8-K/A  filed on June 20, 2018).
 
4.46 Form of Of ficers’  Certificate related to 0.652% Notes due 2025 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to Prologis’
Current Report Form 8-K/A  filed on September 24, 2018).
 
100
 
4.47 Form of Of ficers’  Certificate related to 0.972% Notes due 2028 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to Prologis’
Current Report Form 8-K/A  filed on September 24, 2018).
 
4.48 Form of Of ficers’  Certificate related to 1.077% Notes due 2030 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to Prologis’
Current Report Form 8-K/A  filed on September 24, 2018) .
 
4.49 Form of Of ficers’  Certificate related to 1.470% Notes due 2038 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to Prologis’
Current Report Form 8-K/A  filed on September 24, 2018) .
 
4.50 Form of Of ficer’s Certificate related to 1.875% Notes Due 2029 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Prologis’
Registration Statement on Form 8-K/A  filed on August 1, 2018).
 
4.51 Form of Of ficer’s Certificate related to the 1.15% Notes due 2039 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Prologis’
Current Report Form 10-Q filed in April 23, 2019).
 
4.52 Form of Of ficer’s Certificate related to the 0.250% Notes due 2027 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Prologis’
Registration Statement 8-A12B filed on September 10, 2019).
 
4.53 Form of Of ficer’s Certificate related to the 0.625% Notes due 2031 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Prologis’
Registration Statement 8-A12B filed on September 10, 2019).
 
4.54 Form of Of ficer’s Certificate related to the 1.500% Notes due 2049 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to Prologis’
Registration Statement 8-A12B filed on September 10, 2019).
 
Other debt instruments are omitted in accordance with Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Registration S-K. Copies of such instruments will be
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.
 
10.1  Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of ProLogis Fraser , L.P., dated as of August 4, 2004
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Trust’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2004).
 
10.2  Fifteenth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Prologis 2, L.P ., (f/k/a AMB Property II, L.P .) dated
February 19, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Prologis’  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2009).
 
10.3*  Amended and Restated 2002 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 4, 2006  and also incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
Operating Partnership’ s Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 4, 2006).
 
10.4*  The Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan of AMB Property Corporation and AMB Property , L.P.
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 15, 2007  and also
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Operating Partnership’ s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 15, 2007).
 
10.5*  Prologis Outperformance Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed
December 22, 2011).
 
10.6*  Prologis, Inc. 2016 Outperformance Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Prologis’  Current Report on Form
8-K filed on August 16, 2016).
 
10.7*  Form of Prologis, Inc. 2016 Outperformance Plan L TIP Unit Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2
to Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 16, 2016).
 
10.8*  Form of Participation Points and L TIP Unit Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Prologis’
Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 27, 2014).
 
10.9*  Second Amended and Restated Prologis Promote Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Prologis’  Current
Report on Form 8-K filed on August 1, 2014).
 
10.10*  Form of Prologis, Inc. Second Amended and Restated Prologis Promote Plan L TIP Unit Award Agreement (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 18, 2014).
 
10.11*  Form of Prologis, Inc. Long-T erm Incentive Plan L TIP Unit Award Agreement (General) (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.3 to Prologis’  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2014).
 
10.12*  Form of Prologis, Inc. 2012 Long-T erm Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (L TIP Unit election) (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.27 to Prologis’  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015).
 
101
 
10.13*  Form of Prologis, Inc. 2012 Long-T erm Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.5 to Prologis’  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2014).
 
10.14*  Form of Prologis, Inc. 2012 Long-T erm Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (Bonus exchange) (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Prologis’  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2014).
 
10.15*  ProLogis 2006 Long-T erm Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Trust’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed June 2, 2006).
 
10.16*  First Amendment of the ProLogis 2006 Long-T erm Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Trust’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010).
 
10.17*  Second Amendment of the ProLogis 2006 Long-T erm Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Trust’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 19, 2010).
 
10.18*  Third Amendment of the ProLogis 2006 Long-T erm Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Trust’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010).
 
10.19*  Form of Non-Qualified Share Option Award Terms; The Trust 2006 Long-T erm Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.25 to the Trust’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009).
 
10.20*  Form of Restricted Share Award Terms; ProLogis 2006 Long-T erm Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.27 to the Trust’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009).
 
10.21*  Form of Performance Share Award Terms; ProLogis 2006 Long-T erm Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.26 to the Trust’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009).
 
10.22*  ProLogis 2000 Share Option Plan for Outside Trustees (as Amended and Restated Ef fective as of December 31, 2008)
(incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.13 to ProLogis’  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008).
 
10.23*  ProLogis Deferred Fee Plan for Trustees (As Amended and Restated Ef fective as of May 14, 2010) (incorporated by
reference to exhibit 10.3 to ProLogis’  Form 8-K filed on May 19, 2010).
 
10.24*  Form of Indemnification Agreement between ProLogis and certain directors and executive of ficers (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 8, 2011).
 
10.25*  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement; Prologis, Inc. 2012 Long-T erm Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to Prologis’  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2012).
 
10.26*  Prologis, Inc. 2012 Long-T erm Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Prologis’  Current Report on
Form 8-K filed May 8, 2012).
 
10.27*  Form of Director Deferred Stock Unit Award terms (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Prologis’  Current Report
on Form 8-K filed May 8, 2012).
 
10.28*  Form of Change of Control and Noncompetition Agreement by and between Prologis, Inc. and its executive of ficers
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed August 16, 2013).
 
10.29*  Form of Prologis, Inc. Long-T erm Incentive Plan L TIP Unit Award Agreement (General form 2015) (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.57 to Prologis’  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014).
 
10.30*  Form of Prologis, Inc. Long-T erm Incentive Plan L TIP Unit Award Agreement (Bonus exchange) (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Prologis’  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2015).
 
10.31*  Form of Prologis, Inc. Long-T erm Incentive Plan L TIP Unit Award Agreement (General form 2016) (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.48 to Prologis’  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015).
 
10.32*  Form of Prologis, Inc. Outperformance Plan L TIP Unit Exchange Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.58 to Prologis’  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014).
 
10.33*  Form of Prologis, Inc. Long-T erm Incentive Plan Equity Exchange Of fer LTIP Unit Award Agreement (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.59 to Prologis’  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014).
 
10.34*  Amended and Restated Prologis, Inc. 2011 Notional Account Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.60 to Prologis’  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014).
 
102
 
10.35*  Amended and Restated Prologis, Inc. Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.61 to Prologis’  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014).
 
10.36*  Second Amended and Restated Prologis 2005 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.62 to Prologis’  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014).
 
10.37*  Prologis, Inc. 2018 Outperformance Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K
filed on January 18, 2018).
 
10.38*  Prologis, Inc. Amended and Restated 2018 Outperformance Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Prologis’
Current Report Form 8-K filed on March 27, 2018).
 
10.39*  Form of Prologis, Inc. 2018 Amendment to Outperformance Plan L TIP Unit Award Agreements (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K filed on March 27, 2018).
 
10.40*  Amended and Restated Director Deferred Stock Unit Award Terms (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Prologis’
Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 7, 2018).
 
10.41  Form of Time-Sharing Agreement for Hamid Moghadam (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Prologis’  Current
Report on Form 10-Q filed on October 22, 2018).
 
10.42*  Prologis, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 2018 Outperformance Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K filed on August 28, 2018).
 
10.43*  Form of Outperformance Plan L TIP Unit Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Prologis’  Current
Report Form 8-K filed on August 28, 2018).
 
10.44*  Form of L TIP Unit Award Agreement (Bonus Exchange) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Prologis’  Current
Report Form 8-K filed on August 28, 2018).
 
10.45*  Form of L TIP Unit Award Agreement (Omnibus) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Prologis’  Current Report
Form 8-K filed on August 28, 2018).
 
10.46*  Form of RSU Agreement (Global) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K filed
on August 28, 2018).
 
10.47*  Form of RSU Agreement (L TIP Unit Election) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Prologis’  Current Report Form
8-K filed on August 28, 2018).
 
10.48*  Form of NEO Retirement Eligibility W aiver (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-
K filed on August 28, 2018).
 
10.49  Term Loan Agreement dated as of August 18, 2016 among Prologis GK Holdings Y.K., as borrower , Prologis, Inc. and
Prologis, L.P ., as guarantors, the banks listed on the signature pages thereof, and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation,
as Administrative Agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
August 22, 2016).
 
10.50  Guaranty of Payment dated as of August 18, 2016 among Prologis, Inc. and Prologis, L.P ., as guarantors, and Sumitomo
Mitsui Banking Corporation, as Administrative Agent, for the banks that are from time to time parties to the Term Loan
Agreement dated as of August 18, 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Prologis’  Current Report on Form
8-K filed on August 22, 2016).
 
10.51  Letter Agreement dated February 3, 2017 by and between Prologis, Inc. and Hamid R. Moghadam (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K filed on February 3, 2017).
 
10.52  Fifth Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of February 16, 2017, among Prologis Marunouchi
Finance Investment Limited Partnership, as initial borrower , Prologis, Inc. and Prologis, L.P ., as guarantors, the lenders
listed on the signature pages thereof, and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, as Administrative Agent (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K filed on February 21, 2017).
 
10.53  Guaranty of Payment, date as of February 16, 2017, among Prologis, Inc. and Prologis, L.P ., as guarantors, Sumitomo
Mitsui Banking Corporation, as Administrative Agent, for the banks that are from time to time parties to the Fifth Amend
and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of February 16, 2017 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K filed on February 22, 2017).
 
103
 
10.54  Amended and Restated Senior Term Loan Agreement dated as of May 4, 2017 among Prologis, Inc., Prologis, L.P .,
various af filiates of Prologis, L.P ., various lenders and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K on May 8, 2017).
 
10.55  Second Amended and Restated Global Senior Credit Agreement, dated as of January 16, 2019, by and among Prologis,
Inc., Prologis, L.P ., various af filiates of Prologis, L.P ., various lenders and Bank of America, N.A., as Global
Administrative Agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K on January 16,
2019).
 
10.56  Term Loan Agreement dated as of March 4, 2019 among Prologis GK Holdings Y.K., as borrower , Prologis, L.P ., as
guarantor , the lenders party thereto, and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, as Administrative Agent (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K filed on March 6, 2019).
 
10.57  Guaranty of Payment dated as of March 4, 2019 between Prologis, L.P ., as guarantor , and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
Corporation, as Administrative Agent, for the lenders that are from time to time parties to the Term Loan Agreement
dated as of March 4, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K filed on March
6, 2019).
   
10.58  Amended and Restated Change in Control and Noncompetition Agreement, dated April 30, 2019, between Prologis, Inc.
and Hamid R. Moghadam (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Prologis’  Current Report From 8-K filed on May 3,
2019).
   
10.59  Form of Retirement Eligibility W aiver Amendment for Hamid Moghadam (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K filed on December 10, 2019).
   
10.60  Form of Retirement Eligibility W aiver Amendment for Named Executive Of ficers (other than Hamid Moghadam)
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Prologis’  Current Report Form 8-K filed on December 10, 2019).
   
21.1†  Subsidiaries of Prologis, Inc. and Prologis, L.P .
 
23.1†  Consent of KPMG LLP  with respect to Prologis, Inc.
 
23.2†  Consent of KPMG LLP  with respect to Prologis, L.P .
 
24.1†  Power of Attorney for Prologis, Inc. (included in signature page of this annual report).
 
24.2†  Power of Attorney for Prologis, L.P . (included in signature page of this annual report).
 
31.1†  Certification of Chief Executive Of ficer of Prologis, Inc.
 
31.2†  Certification of Chief Financial Of ficer of Prologis, Inc.
 
31.3†  Certification of Chief Executive Of ficer for Prologis, L.P .
 
31.4†  Certification of Chief Financial Of ficer for Prologis, L.P .
 
32.1†  Certification of Chief Executive Of ficer and Chief Financial Of ficer of Prologis, Inc., pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
 
32.2†  Certification of Chief Executive Of ficer and Chief Financial Of ficer for Prologis, L.P ., pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
 
99.1  Supplemental United States Federal Income Tax Considerations (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Prologis’
Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 20, 2016).
 
99.2  Blackout Notice provided to directors and executive of ficers of Prologis. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to
Prologis’  Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 22, 2019).
 
101. INS†  Inline XBRL  Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL
tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL  Document.
 
101. SCH†  Inline XBRL  Taxonomy Extension Schema
 
101. CAL†  Inline XBRL  Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase
 
101. DEF†  Inline XBRL  Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase
 
104
 
101. LAB†  Inline XBRL  Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase
 
101. PRE†  Inline XBRL  Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase
   
104  Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted as Inline XBRL  and contained in Exhibit 101).
 
* Management Contract or Compensatory Plan or Arrangement
† Filed herewith
a Prologis has omitted certain schedules and exhibits pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K and shall furnish
supplementally to the SEC copies of any of the omitted schedules and exhibits upon request by the SEC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
105
 
SIGNA TURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
PROLOGIS, INC.
   
By: /s/ Hamid R. Moghadam
  Hamid R. Moghadam
  Chief Executive Of ficer
 
Date: February 10, 2020
 
POWER OF ATTORNEY
 
KNOW ALL PERSONS BY  THESE PRESENTS, that we, the undersigned of ficers and directors of Prologis, Inc., hereby severally
constitute Hamid R. Moghadam, Thomas S. Olinger and Edward S. Nekritz, and each of them singly , our true and lawful attorneys
with full power to them, and each of them singly , to sign for us and in our names in the capacities indicated below , the Form 10-K filed
herewith and any and all amendments to said Form 10-K, and generally to do all such things in our names and in our capacities as
officers and directors to enable Prologis, Inc. to comply with the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and all
requirements of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming our signatures as they may be signed
by our said attorneys, or any of them, to said Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 
Signature  Title  Date
     
/s/ Hamid R. Moghadam  Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Of ficer February 10, 2020
Hamid R. Moghadam   
     
/s/ Thomas S. Olinger  Chief Financial Of ficer  February 10, 2020
Thomas S. Olinger   
     
/s/ Lori A. Palazzolo  Managing Director and Chief
Accounting Of ficer February 10, 2020
Lori A. Palazzolo   
     
/s/ Cristina G. Bita  Director  February 10, 2020
Cristina G. Bita   
     
/s/ George L. Fotiades  Director  February 10, 2020
George L. Fotiades   
     
/s/ Lydia H. Kennard  Director  February 10, 2020
Lydia H. Kennard     
     
/s/ J. Michael Losh  Director  February 10, 2020
J. Michael Losh   
     
/s/ Irving F . Lyons III  Director  February 10, 2020
Irving F . Lyons III     
     
/s/ David P . O’Connor  Director  February 10, 2020
David P . O’Connor     
     
/s/ Olivier Piani  Director  February 10, 2020
Olivier Piani     
     
/s/ Jef frey L. Skelton  Director  February 10, 2020
Jeffrey L. Skelton     
     
/s/ Carl B. W ebb  Director  February 10, 2020
Carl B. W ebb     
     
/s/ William D. Zollars  Director  February 10, 2020
William D. Zollars     
106
 
SIGNA TURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
PROLOGIS, L.P .
By: Prologis, Inc., its general partner
   
By: /s/ Hamid R. Moghadam
  Hamid R. Moghadam
  Chief Executive Of ficer
 
Date: February 10, 2020
 
POWER OF ATTORNEY
 
KNOW ALL PERSONS BY  THESE PRESENTS, that we, the undersigned of ficers and directors of Prologis, L.P ., hereby severally
constitute Hamid R. Moghadam, Thomas S. Olinger and Edward S. Nekritz, and each of them singly , our true and lawful attorneys
with full power to them, and each of them singly , to sign for us and in our names in the capacities indicated below , the Form 10-K filed
herewith and any and all amendments to said Form 10-K, and generally to do all such things in our names and in our capacities as
officers and directors to enable Prologis, L.P . to comply with the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and all
requirements of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming our signatures as they may be signed
by our said attorneys, or any of them, to said Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 
Signature  Title  Date
     
/s/ Hamid R. Moghadam  Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Of ficer February 10, 2020
Hamid R. Moghadam   
     
/s/ Thomas S. Olinger  Chief Financial Of ficer  February 10, 2020
Thomas S. Olinger   
     
/s/ Lori A. Palazzolo  Managing Director and Chief
Accounting Of ficer February 10, 2020
Lori A. Palazzolo   
     
/s/ Cristina G. Bita  Director  February 10, 2020
Cristina G. Bita   
     
/s/ George L. Fotiades  Director  February 10, 2020
George L. Fotiades   
     
/s/ Lydia H. Kennard  Director  February 10, 2020
Lydia H. Kennard     
     
/s/ J. Michael Losh  Director  February 10, 2020
J. Michael Losh   
     
/s/ Irving F . Lyons III  Director  February 10, 2020
Irving F . Lyons III     
     
/s/ David P . O’Connor  Director  February 10, 2020
David P . O’Connor     
     
/s/ Olivier Piani  Director  February 10, 2020
Olivier Piani     
     
/s/ Jef frey L. Skelton  Director  February 10, 2020
Jeffrey L. Skelton     
     
/s/ Carl B. W ebb  Director  February 10, 2020
Carl B. W ebb     
     
/s/ William D. Zollars  Director  February 10, 2020
William D. Zollars     
 
107
