UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 10-K
 
ANNUAL  REPOR T PURSUANT  TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT  OF 1934
 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018
Commission File No. 1-8923
  
WELL TOWER INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware  34-1096634
   
(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)  (I.R.S. Employer
Identification No.)
   
4500 Dorr Street, Toledo, Ohio  43615
   
(Address of principal executive offices)  (Zip Code)
(419) 247-2800
(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of Each Class Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
Common Stock, $1.00 par value New York Stock Exchange
6.50% Series I Cumulative
Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, $1.00 par valueNew York Stock Exchange
4.800% Notes due 2028 New York Stock Exchange
4.500% Notes due 2034 New York Stock Exchange
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes  þ  No  ¨
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.  Yes  ¨   No  þ
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.  Yes  þ  No  ¨
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). 
Yes  þ  No  ¨  
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.  þ  
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging
growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act. 
Large accelerated filer þ Accelerated filer ¨ Non-accelerated filer ¨Smaller reporting company¨Emerging growth company¨
(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised
financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  Yes  ¨   No  þ
The aggregate market value of the shares of voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing sales price of such
shares on the New York Stock Exchange as of the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter was $23,282,837,560. 
As of February 13, 2019, the registrant had 386,361,193 shares of common stock outstanding.
 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
Portions of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for the annual stockholders’ meeting to be held May 2, 2019, are incorporated by reference into Part III.
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
2018 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
  Page
 PART I
   
Item 1. Business 2
Item 1A. Risk Factors 25
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 34
Item 2. Properties 35
Item 3. Legal Proceedings 36
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 36
   
 PART II
   
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities 37
Item 6. Selected Financial Data 38
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 39
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 60
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 61
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 94
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 94
Item 9B. Other Information 95
   
 PART III
   
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 96
Item 11. Executive Compensation 96
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters96
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 96
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 96
   
 PART IV
   
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 97
Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 102
 Signature 103
PART I 
Item 1.  Business 
General
Welltower Inc. (NYSE:WELL), an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health care
infrastructure.  The company invests with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund the
real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery models and improve people’s wellness and overall health care
experience. Welltower™, a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), owns interests in properties concentrated in major, high-growth
markets in the United States (“U.S.”), Canada and the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), consisting of seniors housing and post-acute
communities and outpatient medical properties. More information is available on the Internet at www.welltower.com. The
information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included
as an inactive textual reference only.
Our primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder value. We seek to pay consistent cash
dividends to stockholders and create opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of annual increases in
net operating income and portfolio growth. To meet these objectives, we invest across the full spectrum of seniors housing and
health care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type, relationship and geographic location.
References herein to “we,” “us,” “our” or the “company” refer to Welltower Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries
unless specifically noted otherwise.
Portfolio of Properties
Please see “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation – Executive
Summary – Company Overview” for a table that summarizes our portfolio as of December 31, 2018.
Property Types
We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate and evaluate our business through three reportable segments: Seniors
Housing Operating, Triple-net and Outpatient Medical. For additional information regarding our segments, please see Note 17 to
our consolidated financial statements. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of
significant accounting policies in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.  The following is a summary of our various
property types. 
Seniors Housing Operating
Our seniors housing operating properties offer services including independent living and independent supportive living,
continuing care retirement communities, assisted living, Alzheimer's/dementia care and include care homes with or without nursing
(U.K.), which assist with activities of daily living that preserve a person's mobility and social systems to promote cognitive
engagement. Our properties include stand-alone properties that provide one level of service, combination properties that provide
multiple levels of service and communities or campuses that provide a wide range of services. Properties are primarily held in joint
venture entities with operating partners. We utilize the structure authorized by the REIT Investment Diversification and
Empowerment Act of 2007, which is commonly referred to as a “RIDEA” structure (the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code
authorizing the RIDEA structure were enacted as part of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008). 
Independent Living and Independent Supportive Living (Canada)  Independent living and independent supportive living refers to
age-restricted, multifamily properties with central dining that provide residents access to meals and other services such as
housekeeping, linen service, transportation and social and recreational activities. 
Continuing Care Retirement Communities  Continuing care retirement communities typically include a combination of detached
homes and properties offering independent living, assisted living and/or long-term/post-acute care services on one campus. These
communities appeal to residents because there is no need to relocate when health and medical needs change. Resident payment
plans vary, but can include entrance fees, condominium fees and rental fees. Many of these communities also charge monthly
maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services. 
Assisted Living  Assisted living refers to state-regulated rental properties that provide independent living services, but also
provide supportive care from trained employees to residents who require assistance with activities of daily living, including, but not
limited to, management of medications, bathing, dressing, toileting, ambulating and eating.
Alzheimer’s/Dementia Care  Certain properties offering assisted living may include state-licensed settings that specialize in
caring for those afflicted with Alzheimer’s disease and/or other types of dementia.
Care Homes with or without Nursing (U.K.)  Care homes without nursing, regulated by the Care Quality Commission ("CQC”),
are rental properties that provide essentially the same services as U.S. assisted living. Care homes with nursing, also regulated by
2
the CQC, are licensed daily rate or rental properties where most individuals require 24-hour nursing and/or medical care. Generally,
these properties are licensed for various national and local reimbursement programs.  Unlike the U.S., care homes with nursing in
the U.K. generally do not provide post-acute care.
Our Seniors Housing Operating segment accounted for 69%, 65% and 59% of total revenues for the years ended December 31,
2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. As of December 31, 2018, we had relationships with 21 operators to manage our seniors
housing operating properties. In each instance, our partner provides management services to the properties pursuant to an incentive-
based management contract. We rely on our partners to effectively and efficiently manage these properties. For the year ended
December 31, 2018, our relationship with Sunrise Senior Living accounted for approximately 36% of our Seniors Housing
Operating segment revenues and 25% of our total revenues.
Triple-net
Our triple-net properties offer services including independent living and independent supportive living (Canada), assisted living,
continuing care retirement communities, Alzheimer's/dementia care and care homes with or without nursing (U.K.) described
above, as well as long-term/post-acute care. We invest primarily through acquisitions, development and joint venture partnerships.
Our properties are primarily leased to operators under long-term, triple-net master leases that obligate the tenant to pay all operating
costs, utilities, real estate taxes, insurance, building repairs, maintenance costs and all obligations under certain ground leases. We
are not involved in property management. Our properties include stand-alone properties that provide one level of service,
combination facilities that provide multiple levels of service, and communities or campuses that provide a wide range of services. 
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care Facilities  Post-acute care is at the leading edge of reducing health care costs while improving
quality. These high-impact centers help patients recover from illness or surgery with the goals of getting the patient home and
healed faster and reducing hospital readmission rates. Our long-term/post-acute care properties generally offer skilled nursing/post-
acute care, inpatient rehabilitation and long-term acute care services. Skilled nursing/post-acute care refers to licensed daily rate or
rental properties where most individuals require 24-hour nursing and/or medical care. Generally, these properties are licensed for
Medicaid and/or Medicare reimbursement in the U.S. or provincial reimbursement in Canada. All properties offer some level of
rehabilitation services. Some properties focus on higher acuity patients and offer rehabilitation units specializing in cardiac,
orthopedic, dialysis, neurological or pulmonary rehabilitation. Inpatient rehabilitation properties provide intensive inpatient
services after illness, injury or surgery to patients able to tolerate and benefit from three hours of rehabilitation hours per day. Long-
term acute care properties provide inpatient services for patients with complex medical conditions that require more intensive care,
monitoring or emergency support than is available in most skilled nursing/post-acute care properties.
Our Triple-net segment accounted for 19%, 22% and 28% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and
2016, respectively.  For the year ended December 31, 2018, our revenues related to our relationship with Genesis HealthCare
(“Genesis”) accounted for approximately 15% of our Triple-net segment revenues and 3% of our total revenues. As of
December 31, 2018, our relationship with Genesis was comprised of a master lease for 87 properties owned 100% by us, two real
estate loans totaling approximately $187 million, approximately 9.5 million shares of GEN Series A common stock (representing
approximately 9% of total GEN common stock) and a 25% ownership stake in an unconsolidated joint venture that includes a
master lease for 28 properties operated by Genesis. In addition to rent, the master lease requires Genesis to pay all operating costs,
utilities, real estate taxes, insurance, building repairs, maintenance costs and all obligations under certain ground leases. All
obligations under the master lease have been guaranteed by FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC, a subsidiary of Genesis.
Outpatient Medical
Outpatient Medical Buildings  Demand for outpatient medical services is growing as more procedures are performed safely and
efficiently outside the hospital setting. State-of-the-art outpatient centers are needed in accessible, consumer-friendly locations. Our
portfolio of outpatient medical buildings is an integral part of creating health care provider connectivity in local markets and
generally include physician offices, ambulatory surgery centers, diagnostic facilities, outpatient services and/or labs. Approximately
95% of our outpatient medical building portfolio is affiliated with health systems (buildings directly on hospital campuses or with
tenants that are satellite locations for the health system and its physicians). We typically lease our outpatient medical buildings to
multiple tenants and provide varying levels of property management. Our Outpatient Medical segment accounted for 12%, 13%
and 13% of total revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  No single tenant exceeds
20% of segment revenues.
Investments
Providing high-quality and affordable health care to an aging global population requires vast investments and infrastructure
development. We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate primarily through acquisitions, developments and joint
venture partnerships. For additional information regarding acquisition and development activity, please see Note 3 to our
consolidated financial statements. Our portfolio creates opportunities to connect partners across the continuum of care and drive
efficiency. We seek to diversify our investment portfolio by property type, relationship and geographic location. In determining
whether to invest in a property, we focus on the following: (1) the experience of the obligor’s/partner’s management team; (2) the
3
historical and projected financial and operational performance of the property; (3) the credit of the obligor/partner; (4) the security
for any lease or loan; (5) the real estate attributes of the building and its location; (6) the capital committed to the property by the
obligor/partner; and (7) the operating fundamentals of the applicable industry. 
We monitor our investments through a variety of methods determined by the type of property. Our asset management process for
seniors housing properties generally includes review of monthly financial statements and other operating data for each property,
review of obligor/partner creditworthiness, property inspections, and review of covenant compliance relating to licensure, real
estate taxes, letters of credit and other collateral. Our internal property management division manages and monitors the outpatient
medical portfolio with a comprehensive process including review of, among other things, tenant relations, lease expirations, the
mix of health service providers, hospital/health system relationships, property performance, capital improvement needs, and market
conditions. 
Investment Types 
Real Property  Our properties are primarily comprised of land, buildings, improvements and related rights. Our triple-net
properties are generally leased to operators under long-term operating leases. The leases generally have a fixed contractual term of
12 to 15 years and contain one or more five to 15-year renewal options. Certain of our leases also contain purchase options, a
portion of which could result in the disposition of properties for less than full market value if the options were to be exercised. Most
of our rents are received under triple-net leases requiring the operator to pay rent and all additional charges incurred in the
operation of the leased property. The tenants are required to repair, rebuild and maintain the leased properties. Substantially all
these operating leases are designed with escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally
recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income related to
leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. 
At December 31, 2018, approximately 94% of our triple-net properties were subject to master leases. A master lease is a lease of
multiple properties to one tenant entity under a single lease agreement. From time to time, we may acquire additional properties
that are then leased to the tenant under the master lease. The tenant is required to make one monthly payment that represents rent on
all the properties that are subject to the master lease. Typically, the master lease tenant can exercise its right to purchase the
properties or to renew the master lease only with respect to all leased properties at the same time. We believe this bundling feature
benefits us because the tenant cannot limit the purchase or renewal to better performing properties and terminate the leasing
arrangement with respect to poorer performing properties. This spreads our risk among the entire group of properties within the
master lease. The bundling feature should provide a similar advantage to us if the master lease tenant is in bankruptcy. Subject to
certain restrictions, a debtor in bankruptcy has the right to assume or reject its unexpired leases and executory contracts.  In the
context of integrated master leases such as ours, our tenants in bankruptcy would be required to assume or reject the master lease as
a whole, rather than deciding on a property by property basis. 
Our outpatient medical portfolio is primarily self-managed and consists principally of multi-tenant properties leased to health
care providers. Our leases typically include increasers and some form of operating expense reimbursement by the tenant. As of
December 31, 2018, 75% of our portfolio included leases with full pass through, 23% with a partial expense reimbursement
(modified gross) and 2% with no expense reimbursement (gross). Our outpatient medical leases are non-cancellable operating
leases that have a weighted-average remaining term of six years at December 31, 2018 and are often credit enhanced by security
deposits, guaranties and/or letters of credit.
Construction  We provide for the construction of properties for tenants primarily as part of long-term operating leases. We
capitalize certain interest costs associated with funds used for the construction of properties owned by us. The amount capitalized is
based upon the amount advanced during the construction period using the rate of interest that approximates our company-wide cost
of financing. Our interest expense is reduced by the amount capitalized. We also typically charge a transaction fee at the
commencement of construction which we defer and amortize to income over the term of the resulting lease. The construction
period commences upon funding and terminates upon the earlier of the completion of the applicable property or the end of a
specified period. During the construction period, we advance funds to the tenants in accordance with agreed upon terms and
conditions which require, among other things, periodic site visits by a company representative. During the construction period, we
generally require an additional credit enhancement in the form of payment and performance bonds and/or completion guaranties. At
December 31, 2018, we had outstanding construction investments of $194,365,000 and were committed to provide additional funds
of approximately $436,984,000 to complete construction for investment properties. We also provide for construction loans which,
depending on the terms and conditions, could be treated as loans, real property or investments in unconsolidated entities. 
Real Estate Loans  Our real estate loans are typically structured to provide us with interest income, principal amortization and
transaction fees and are generally secured by first/second mortgage liens, leasehold mortgages, corporate guaranties and/or personal
guaranties. At December 31, 2018, we had gross outstanding real estate loans of $398,711,000. The interest yield averaged
approximately 7.9% per annum on our outstanding real estate loan balances. Our yield on real estate loans depends upon a number
of factors, including the stated interest rate, average principal amount outstanding during the term of the loan and any interest rate
adjustments. The real estate loans outstanding at December 31, 2018 are generally subject to one to 15-year terms with principal
amortization schedules and/or balloon payments of the outstanding principal balances at the end of the term. Typically, real estate
4
loans are cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized with other real estate loans, operating leases or agreements between us and the
obligor and its affiliates.
Investments in Unconsolidated Entities Investments in entities that we do not consolidate but for which we can exercise
significant influence over operating and financial policies are reported under the equity method of accounting. Our investments in
unconsolidated entities generally represent interests ranging from 10% to 50% in real estate assets. Under the equity method of
accounting, our share of the investee’s earnings or losses is included in our consolidated results of operations. To the extent that our
cost basis is different from the basis reflected at the entity level, the basis difference is generally amortized over the lives of the
related assets and liabilities, and such amortization is included in our share of equity in earnings of the entity. The initial carrying
value of investments in unconsolidated entities is based on the amount paid to purchase the entity interest inclusive of transaction
costs. We evaluate our equity method investments for impairment based upon a comparison of the estimated fair value of the equity
method investment to its carrying value. When we determine a decline in the estimated fair value of such an investment below its
carrying value is other-than-temporary, an impairment is recorded.  
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements are in conformity with U.S general accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) and
include the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and joint venture entities that we control, through voting rights or other
means. All material intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
At inception of joint venture transactions, we identify entities for which control is achieved through means other than voting
rights (“variable interest entities” or “VIEs”) and determine which business enterprise is the primary beneficiary of its operations. A
VIE is broadly defined as an entity where either (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a controlling financial
interest, or (ii) the equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity’s activities without additional subordinated financial
support. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary.  Accounting Standards
Codification Topic 810, "Consolidations", requires enterprises to perform a qualitative approach to determining whether or not a
VIE will need to be consolidated. This evaluation is based on an enterprise’s ability to direct and influence the activities of a VIE
that most significantly impact that entity’s economic performance.
For investments in joint ventures, U.S. GAAP may preclude consolidation by the sole general partner in certain circumstances
based on the type of rights held by the limited partner(s). We assess the limited partners’ rights and their impact on our
consolidation conclusions, and we reassess if there is a change to the terms or in the exercisability of the rights of the limited
partners, the sole general partner increases or decreases its ownership of limited partnership interests, or there is an increase or
decrease in the number of outstanding limited partnership interests. We similarly evaluate the rights of managing members of
limited liability companies.
Borrowing Policies
We utilize a combination of debt and equity to fund investments. Generally, we intend to issue unsecured, fixed-rate public debt
with long-term maturities to approximate the maturities on our triple-net leases and investment strategy. For short-term purposes,
we may borrow on our primary unsecured credit facility or issue commercial paper. We replace these borrowings with long-term
capital such as senior unsecured notes or common stock. When terms are deemed favorable, we may invest in properties subject to
existing mortgage indebtedness. In addition, we may obtain secured financing for unleveraged properties in which we have
invested or may refinance properties acquired on a leveraged basis. In certain agreements with our lenders, we are subject to
restrictions with respect to secured and unsecured indebtedness.
Competition
We compete with other real estate investment trusts, real estate partnerships, private equity and hedge fund investors, banks,
insurance companies, finance/investment companies, government-sponsored agencies, taxable and tax-exempt bond funds, health
care operators, developers and other investors in the acquisition, development, leasing and financing of health care and seniors
housing properties. We compete for investments based on a number of factors including relationships, certainty of execution,
investment structures and underwriting criteria. Our ability to successfully compete is impacted by economic and demographic
trends, availability of acceptable investment opportunities, our ability to negotiate beneficial investment terms, availability and cost
of capital, construction and renovation costs and applicable laws and regulations.
The operators/tenants of our properties compete with properties that provide comparable services in the local markets.
Operators/tenants compete for patients and residents based on a number of factors including quality of care, reputation, physical
appearance of properties, location, services offered, family preferences, physicians, staff, and price. We also face competition from
other health care facilities for tenants, such as physicians and other health care providers that provide comparable facilities and
services.
For additional information on the risks associated with our business, please see “Item 1A — Risk Factors” of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K.
5
Corporate Responsibility
Sustainability Approach Our sustainability strategy is focused on adopting the best environmental, social and governance practices
across our business and we have been recognized for our leadership in this space. Most recently, Welltower was listed to the 2018
Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and named an industry mover for highest corporate sustainability assessment score increase
by sustainable investment specialists RobecoSAM.
Environmental We strive to reduce our environmental impact by increasing energy and water efficiency, reducing greenhouse gas
emissions and investing in projects that reduce energy and water consumption that meet our rate of return thresholds. We have
comprehensive employee, tenant and vendor engagement programs in place focused on operational strategies to drive energy and
water efficiency. In our medical office building portfolio, we have transitioned to a standard green lease, which aligns tenant and
landlord interests on energy and water efficiency. We seek to increase our consumption of green and renewable energy where
possible and have on-site solar installations at seven properties in our medical office building portfolio. We are actively pursuing
LEED or BREEAM certification for over 200,000 square feet of our new developments, have 38 ENERGY STAR certified
properties and 11 IREM Certified Sustainable Property certifications across our portfolio. Additionally, 100% of our control
boundary, comprised of our managed outpatient medical portfolio, is benchmarked in EPA ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager.
Year(1) Total ener gy consumption
in control boundary(2)Control boundary ener gy
use intensity (EUI)Like-for -like change in
energy consumption
within control boundary(3) Percent renewable ener gy
consumed within control
boundary(4)
2017  375,059 MWh 24.35 kWh/sq ft (1)%  7.25%
2016  360,165 MWh 22.82 kWh/sq ft n/a  n/a
2015  350,342 MWh 21.49 kWh/sq ft n/a  n/a
Year(1) Control Boundary Water
consumption(2)Water use intensity (WUI)Like-for -like change in water
consumption within control
boundary(3)
2017  319,045 kgal 24.0 gal/sq ft (6.23)%
2016  337,081 kgal 26.4 gal/sq ft 7.01%
2015  319,630 kgal 25.0 gal/sq ft n/a
(1) Full 2018 calendar year energy and water data is not available until March 2019. 2017 is the most recent year for which fill energy and water is available and
externally verified.
(2) Our control boundary refers to its managed medical office building portfolio. Energy and water data reported is reflective of control boundary energy and water
consumption.
(3) Like-for-like change in energy consumption within control boundary is not available prior to 2017 due to a change in energy consumption methodology. 2017
represents the first year where tenant data is included in our sustainability performance metrics. Like-for-like change in water consumption within control boundary
is not available prior to 2016 due to lack of available data.
(4) Renewable energy consumption data within control boundary is not available prior to 2017 due to lack of data. The data represent on-site and off-site renewable
energy generated and consumed by properties within our control boundary.
Social We have a number of social initiatives in place that are focused on fostering a more diverse workforce, giving back to our
communities and ensuring the health and wellbeing of our employees, tenants and residents. We were recently awarded Silver level
of recognition by the American Heart Association's Workplace Health Achievement Index. Through our Welltower Foundation, we
have donated over $2.5 million since 2015 to organizations that support health and wellness, the arts and education.
Governance We announced two new appointments to our Board of Directors, resulting in 55% of our independent director
positions being held by minorities and women as of December 31, 2018.
Employees  As of January 31, 2019, we had 384 employees.
Credit Concentrations  Please see Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements.
Geographic Concentrations  Please see “Item 2 – Properties” below and Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements.
6
Health Care Industry
The demand for health care services, and consequently health care properties, is projected to reach unprecedented levels in the
near future. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) projects that national health expenditures will rise to
approximately $3.7 trillion in 2018 or 18.5% of gross domestic product. The average annual growth in national health expenditures
for 2015 through 2025 is expected to be 5.8%. While demographics are the primary driver of demand, economic conditions and
availability of services contribute to health care service utilization rates. We believe the health care property market may be less
susceptible to fluctuations and economic downturns relative to other property sectors. Investor interest in the market remains
strong, especially in specific sectors such as private-pay seniors housing and outpatient medical buildings. The total U.S.
population for 2015 through 2025 is projected to increase by 9.3%. The elderly population aged 65 and over is projected to increase
by 36% through 2025. The elderly are an important component of health care utilization, especially independent living services,
assisted living services, long-term/post-acute care services, inpatient and outpatient hospital services and physician ambulatory
care. Most health care services are provided within a health care facility such as a hospital, a physician’s office or a seniors housing
community. Therefore, we believe there will be continued demand for companies, such as ours, with expertise in health care real
estate. 
Health care real estate investment opportunities tend to increase as demand for health care services increases.  We recognize the
need for health care real estate as it correlates to health care service demand.  Health care providers require real estate to house their
businesses and expand their services.  We believe that investment opportunities in health care real estate will continue to be present
due to:
•The specialized nature of the industry, which enhances the credibility and experience of the company;
•The projected population growth combined with stable or increasing health care utilization rates, which ensures demand; and
•The on-going merger and acquisition activity.
Certain Government Regulations
United States
Health Law Matters — Generally
Typically, operators of seniors housing facilities do not receive significant funding from government programs and are largely
subject to state laws, as opposed to federal laws. Operators of long-term/post-acute care facilities and hospitals do receive
significant funding from government programs, and these facilities are subject to extensive regulation, including federal and state
laws covering the type and quality of medical and/or nursing care provided, ancillary services (e.g., respiratory, occupational,
physical and infusion therapies), qualifications of the administrative personnel and nursing staff, the adequacy of the physical plant
and equipment, reimbursement and rate setting and operating policies. In addition, as described below, operators of these facilities
are subject to extensive laws and regulations pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including, but not limited to, the federal
Anti-Kickback Statute (“AKS”), the federal Stark Law (“Stark Law”), and the federal False Claims Act (“FCA”), as well as
comparable state laws. Hospitals, physician group practice clinics, and other health care providers that operate in our portfolio are
subject to extensive federal, state, and local licensure, registration, certification, and inspection laws, regulations, and industry
standards, as well as other conditions of participation in federal and state government programs such as Medicare or Medicaid. Our
tenants’ failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in, among other things: loss of accreditation; denial of
reimbursement; imposition of fines; suspension, decertification, or exclusion from federal and state health care programs; loss of
license; or closure of the facility. See risk factors “The requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such
as Medicare or Medicaid, could have a material adverse effect on our obligors’ liquidity, financial condition and results of
operations, which could adversely affect our obligors’ ability to meet their obligations to us” and “Our operators’ or tenants’ failure
to comply with federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards
could adversely affect such operators’ or tenants’ operations, which could adversely affect our operators’ and tenants’ ability to
meet their obligations to us” in “Item 1A – Risk Factors” below. 
Licensing and Certification
The primary regulations that affect long-term and post-acute care facilities are state licensing and registration laws. For example,
certain health care facilities are subject to a variety of licensure and certificate of need (“CON”) laws and regulations. Where
applicable, CON laws generally require, among other requirements, that a facility demonstrate the need for (1) constructing a new
facility, (2) adding beds or expanding an existing facility, (3) investing in major capital equipment or adding new services, (4)
changing the ownership or control of an existing licensed facility, or (5) terminating services that have been previously approved
through the CON process. Certain state CON laws and regulations may restrict the ability of operators to add new properties or
expand an existing facility’s size or services. In addition, CON laws may constrain the ability of an operator to transfer
responsibility for operating a particular facility to a new operator.
7
With respect to licensure, generally our long-term/post-acute care facilities are required to be licensed and certified for
participation in Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal and state health care programs. The failure of our operators to maintain or
renew any required license or regulatory approval as well as the failure of our operators to correct serious deficiencies identified in
a compliance survey could require those operators to discontinue operations at a property. In addition, if a property is found to be
out of compliance with Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal or state health care program conditions of participation, the property
operator may be excluded from participating in those government health care programs.
Reimbursement
The reimbursement methodologies applied to health care facilities continue to evolve. Federal and state authorities have
considered and may seek to implement new or modified reimbursement methodologies, including value-based reimbursement
methodologies that may negatively impact health care property operations. The impact of any such changes, if implemented, may
result in a material adverse effect on our portfolio. No assurance can be given that current revenue sources or levels will be
maintained. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that payments under a government health care program are currently, or will be
in the future, sufficient to fully reimburse the property operators for their operating and capital expenses.
•Seniors Housing Facilities  The majority of the revenues received by the operators of U.S. seniors housing facilities are from
private pay sources. The remaining revenue source is primarily Medicaid provided under state waiver programs for home and
community based care. There can be no guarantee that a state Medicaid program operating pursuant to a waiver will be able to
maintain its waiver status. Rates paid by self-pay residents are set by the facilities and are determined by local market
conditions and operating costs. Generally, facilities receive a higher payment per day for a private pay resident than for a
Medicaid beneficiary who requires a comparable level of care. The level of Medicaid reimbursement varies from state to
state. Thus, the revenues generated by operators of our assisted living facilities may be adversely affected by payor mix, acuity
level, changes in Medicaid eligibility and reimbursement levels.
•Long-Term/Post-Acute Care Facilities  The majority of the revenues received by the operators of these facilities are from the
Medicare and Medicaid programs, with the balance representing reimbursement payments from private payors. Consequently,
changes in federal or state reimbursement policies may adversely affect an operator’s ability to cover its expenses, including
our rent or debt service. Long-term/post-acute care facilities are subject to periodic pre- and post-payment reviews, and other
audits by federal and state authorities. A review or audit of a property operator’s claims could result in recoupments, denials, or
delay of payments in the future. Due to the significant judgments and estimates inherent in payor settlement accounting, no
assurance can be given as to the adequacy of any reserves maintained by our property operators to cover potential adjustments
to reimbursements, or to cover settlements made to payors.
◦Medicare Reimbursement  Generally, long-term/post-acute care facilities are reimbursed by Medicare under prospective
payment systems, which generally provide reimbursement based upon a predetermined fixed amount per episode of care
and are updated by CMS, an agency of the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) annually. There is a risk
under these payment systems that costs will exceed the fixed payments, or that payments may be set below the costs to
provide certain items and services. In addition, the HHS Office of Inspector General has released recommendations to
address SNF billing practices and Medicare payment rates. If followed, these recommendations regarding SNF payment
reform may impact our tenants and operators.
◦Medicaid Reimbursement  Many states reimburse SNFs using fixed daily rates, which are applied prospectively based on
patient acuity and the historical costs incurred in providing patient care. In most states, Medicaid does not fully reimburse
the cost of providing services. Certain states are attempting to slow the rate of Medicaid growth by freezing rates or
restricting eligibility and benefits. In addition, Medicaid reimbursement rates may decline if state revenues in a particular
state are not sufficient to fund budgeted expenditures.
•Medicare Reimbursement for Physicians, Hospital Outpatient Departments (“HOPDs”), and Ambulatory Surgical Centers
(“ASCs”) Changes in reimbursement to physicians, HOPDs and ASCs may further affect our tenants and operators.  Generally,
Medicare reimburses physicians under the Physician Fee Schedule, while HOPDs and ASCs are reimbursed under prospective
payment systems. The Physician Fee Schedule and the HOPD and ASC prospective payment systems are updated annually by
CMS. These annual Medicare payment regulations have resulted in lower net pay increases than providers of those services
have often expected. In addition, the Medicare and Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2015
(“MACRA”) includes payment reductions for providers who do not meet government quality standards. The implementation
of pay-for-quality models like those required under MACRA is expected to produce funding disparities that could adversely
impact some provider tenants in outpatient medical buildings and other health care properties. Changes in Medicare Advantage
plan payments may also indirectly affect our operators and tenants that contract with Medicare Advantage plans.
•Health Reform Laws  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of
2010 (collectively, the “Health Reform Laws”) dramatically altered how health care is delivered and reimbursed in the U.S.
and contained various provisions, including Medicaid expansion and the establishment of Health Insurance Exchanges
(“HIEs”) providing subsidized health insurance, that may directly impact us or the operators and tenants of our
properties. Since taking office, President Trump and the current U.S. Congress have sought to modify, repeal, or otherwise
invalidate all or
8
portions of the Health Reform Laws. For example, in October 2017, President Trump issued an executive order in which he
stated that it is his Administration’s policy to seek the prompt repeal of the Health Reform Laws and directed executive
departments and federal agencies to waive, defer, grant exemptions from, or delay the implementation of the provisions of the
Health Reform Laws to the maximum extent permitted by law. On the same day, the federal government separately announced
that cost-sharing reduction payments to insurers offering qualified health plans through the HIEs would end, effective
immediately, unless Congress appropriated the funds. Further, in December 2017, the U.S. Congress passed the Tax Cuts and
Jobs Act, which included a provision that eliminates the penalty under the Health Reform Laws’ individual mandate and could
impact the future state of the HIEs established by the Health Reform Laws. There is still uncertainty with respect to the
additional impact President Trump’s Administration and the U.S. Congress may have, if any, and any changes will likely take
time to unfold, and could have an impact on coverage and reimbursement for health care items and services covered by plans
that were authorized by the Health Reform Laws. We cannot predict whether the existing Health Reform Laws, or future health
care reform legislation or regulatory changes, will have a material impact on our operators’ or tenants’ property or business.
Fraud & Abuse Enforcement
Long-term/post-acute care facilities (and seniors housing facilities that receive Medicaid payments) are subject to federal, state,
and local laws, regulations, and applicable guidance that govern the operations and financial and other arrangements that may be
entered into by health care providers. Certain of these laws, such as the AKS and Stark Law, prohibit direct or indirect payments of
any kind for the purpose of inducing or encouraging the referral of patients for medical products or services reimbursable by
government health care programs. Other government health program laws require providers to furnish only medically necessary
services and submit to the government valid and accurate statements for each service. Our operators and tenants that receive
payments from federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, are subject to substantial financial penalties under the
Civil Monetary Penalties Act and the FCA upon a finding of noncompliance with such laws. In addition, states may also have
separate false claims acts, which, among other things, generally prohibit health care providers from filing false claims or making
false statements to receive payments. Federal and state FCAs contain "whistleblower" provisions that permit private individuals to
bring health care fraud enforcement claims on behalf of the government. Still other laws require providers to comply with a variety
of safety, health and other requirements relating to the condition of the licensed property and the quality of care provided. Sanctions
for violations of these laws, regulations, and other applicable guidance may include, but are not limited to, criminal and/or civil
penalties and fines, loss of licensure, immediate termination of government payments, exclusion from any government health care
program, damage assessments, and imprisonment. In certain circumstances, violation of these rules (such as those prohibiting
abusive and fraudulent behavior) with respect to one property may subject other facilities under common control or ownership to
sanctions, including exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as other government health care
programs. In the ordinary course of its business, a property operator is regularly subjected to inquiries, investigations, and audits by
the federal and state agencies that oversee these laws and regulations.
Prosecutions, investigations or whistleblower actions could have a material adverse effect on a property operator’s liquidity,
financial condition, and operations, which could adversely affect the ability of the operator to meet its financial obligations to us. In
addition, government investigations and enforcement actions brought against the health care industry have increased dramatically
over the past several years and are expected to continue. The costs for an operator of a health care property associated with both
defending such enforcement actions and the undertakings in settling these actions can be substantial and could have a material
adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet its obligations to us.
Federal and State Data Privacy and Security Laws
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), as amended by the Health Information Technology
for Economic and Clinical Health Act, and numerous other state and federal laws govern the collection, security, dissemination,
use, access to and confidentiality of individually identifiable health information. Violations of these laws may result in substantial
civil and/or criminal fines and penalties. The costs for an operator of a health care property associated with developing and
maintaining HIPAA compliance systems, defending enforcement actions and paying any assessed fines, can be substantial and
could have a material adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet its obligations to us.
United Kingdom
In the U.K., care home services are principally regulated by the Health and Social Care Act 2008 (as amended) and other
regulations. This legislation subjects service providers to a number of legally binding “Fundamental Standards” and requires,
amongst other things, that all persons carrying out “Regulated Activities” in the U.K., and the managers of such persons, be
registered. Providers of care home services are also subject (as data controllers) to laws governing their use of personal data
(including in relation to their employees, clients and recipients of their services). These laws currently take the form of the U.K.’s
Data Protection Act 2018 and the European Union’s (“EU”) General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) among other laws. The
Data Protection Act and the GDPR impose a significant number of new obligations with the potential for fines of up to 4% of
annual worldwide turnover or €20 million, whichever is greater. Entities incorporated in or carrying on a business in the U.K. as
well as individuals residing in the U.K. are also subject to the U.K. Bribery Act 2010. The U.K. has recently introduced a new
9
national minimum wage legislation with a maximum fine for non-payment of £20,000 per worker and employers who fail to pay
will be banned from being a company director for up to 15 years. The U.K. recently voted to exit from the EU
(“Brexit”). Negotiations on the exit agreement are underway but at present it is not possible to predict whether Brexit will have a
material impact on our operators’ or tenants’ property or business.
Canada
Retirement homes and long-term care homes are subject to regulation, and long-term care homes receive funding, under
provincial law. There is no federal regulation in this area. Set out below are summaries of the principal regulatory requirements in
the provinces where we have a material number of facilities.
Licensing and Regulation
Alberta 
In Alberta, there are three relevant designations for seniors’ living arrangements, ordered below from the most independent to the
highest level of care.
•Retirement Homes (also called independent living) are designed for older adults able to live on their own, and may offer
various lifestyle amenities. These residences may be rented, privately owned, or life-leased, and may be operated for profit
or non-profit. Support services are not usually offered, but can be arranged by residents. Retirement homes do not
generally receive government funding; residents pay for tenancy and services received. Rental subsidies may be available
to qualified seniors. Independent living residences are subject to provincial tenancy and housing laws.
•Supportive Living (also called assisted living) provides home-like accommodation for residents who wish or need to
access care, assistance, and services. Operators provide at least one meal a day and/or housekeeping services. There are
four levels of supportive living, addressing care needs from basic to advanced. In addition, there are two specialized
designations of supportive care to address the needs of residents who require the highest level of care including for those
who have cognitive impairments. Supportive living can include senior lodges, group homes, and mental health and
designated supportive living accommodations, which can be operated by private for-profit or not-for-profit, or public
operators. Supportive living services are licensed and regulated under provincial laws, and governed by the Ministry of
Health. Operators receiving public funds for health and personal care services must also comply with additional provincial
legislation, and are subject to legislated safeguards aimed at investigation of suspected abuse. The maximum
accommodation fee in publicly-funded designated supportive living is regulated by Alberta Health. In other supportive
living settings, the operator sets the cost of accommodation. Health services are publicly-funded and provided through
Alberta Health Services. Private sector operators are eligible to apply for government funding under a government capital
grant program that provides funding to develop long-term care and affordable supportive living spaces.
•Nursing Homes (also called long-term care) are for residents who have complex, unpredictable medical needs and who
require 24-hour on-site registered nurse assessment or treatment. Nursing homes are regulated by provincial laws, and
governed by the Ministry of Health. Operators are not licensed, but enter into agreements with the Ministry for the
operation of nursing homes and must comply with certain accommodation standards. Homes can be operated by private
for-profit or not-for-profit, or public operators. Operators that receive public funds for health and personal care services
must also comply with certain health service standards and legislation aimed at protecting residents. Alberta Health
regulates the maximum accommodation fee in publicly-funded nursing homes. Health services in long-term care are
publicly-funded, provided through Alberta Health Services. Private sector operators are eligible to apply for government
funding, and the Minister may make grants to an operator in respect of its operating or capital costs.
Ontario
Retirement homes are regulated and licensed under a provincial law aimed at protecting residents. Retirement homes do not
receive government funding; residents enter into tenancy agreements under provincial tenancy law, and pay for tenancy and
services received. Residents may access publicly-funded external care services at the home from external suppliers. Retirement
home licenses are granted by the Retirement Homes Regulatory Authority (“RHRA”), and are non-transferable. The RHRA
administers the law governing retirement homes, to ensure that licensees are meeting certain standards, generally with respect to
care and safety. The law requires any person to report to the RHRA when there are reasonable grounds to suspect abuse of a
resident by anyone, or neglect of a resident by staff. The RHRA conducts a mandatory inspection and issues a report that is posted
on the RHRA’s public website, and also must be posted in the subject home if it is the most recent report. The Registrar of the
RHRA can receive complaints about a retirement home contravening a provision of the law, and if such a complaint is received, it
must be reviewed promptly. The Registrar has broad powers relating to complaint investigation and action. The RHRA Registrar
has the power to inspect a retirement home at any time without warning or issue a warrant to ensure compliance. Compliance
inspections occur at least every three years. The Registrar has the power to make a variety of orders including the imposition of a
fine or an order revoking the operator’s license. The applicable law also enumerates offenses, such as operating without a license,
and provides for penalties for offenses.
10
British Columbia
Provincial laws regulate and license “community care facilities” (long-term care homes) in substantially the same manner as
retirement homes are regulated under Ontario laws. Community care facilities are defined as premises used for the purpose of
supervising vulnerable persons who require three or more prescribed services (from a list that includes regular assistance with
activities of daily living; distribution of medication; management of cash resources; monitoring of food intake; structured behavior
management and intervention; and psychosocial or physical rehabilitative therapy).
Provincial law also recognizes and regulates “assisted living residences,” for seniors who can live independently, but require
assistance with certain activities. Services available can include meals, housekeeping, monitoring and emergency support,
social/recreational opportunities, and transportation. Assisted living residences do not require a license, but must be registered with
the registrar of assisted living residences and must be operated in a manner that does not jeopardize the health or safety of residents.
If the registrar believes the standard is not being met, the registrar may inspect the residence and may suspend or cancel a
registration.  Independent living residences offer housing and hospitality services for retired adults who are functionally
independent and able to direct their own care.
Québec
Provincial laws in Québec regulate retirement homes (private seniors’ residences) as well as long-term care homes (residential
and long-term care centers). Private seniors’ residences are required to obtain a certificate of compliance based on prescribed
operating standards. A certificate of compliance is issued for a period of four years and is renewable. The regional health and social
agency may revoke or refuse to issue or renew a certificate of compliance if, among other things, the operator fails to comply with
the applicable law. The agency may also order corrective measures, further to an inspection, complaint or investigation. The agency
is authorized to inspect a residence, at any reasonable time of day, in order to ascertain whether it complies with the law. 
Private seniors’ residences may belong to either or both of the following categories: (i) those offering services to independent
elderly persons and (ii) those offering services to semi-independent elderly persons. The operator must, for each category, comply
with the applicable criteria and standards, with some exceptions for residences with fewer than six or ten rooms or apartments.
There are requirements with respect to residents’ health and safety, meal services and recreation, content of residents’ files,
disclosure of information to residents, and staffing, among other things.
In May 2017, Quebec adopted the Act to combat maltreatment of seniors and other persons of full age in vulnerable situations,
which aims to implement a Quebec-wide framework agreement to combat maltreatment, targets all facilities that provide health
services and social services to seniors and vulnerable persons, including health establishments and private residences. We expect
that it will affect private seniors’ residences in the following ways:
•Health establishments are required to adopt an “Anti-Maltreatment Policy”, providing notably for the measures put in place
to prevent maltreatment of persons in vulnerable situations;
•The policy adopted by health establishments will notably have to include the required adaptation for the implementation of
the policy in private sector residences; and
•Operators of private seniors’ residences will be required to apply the policy adopted by the integrated health and social
services center in their territory, as well as ensure that the policy is known by residents, their family members and their
employees.
Other Related Laws
Privacy
The services provided in our facilities are subject to privacy legislation in Canada, including, in certain provinces, privacy laws
specifically related to personal health information. Although the obligations of custodians of personal information in the various
provinces differ, they all include the obligation to protect the information. The organizations with which we have management
agreements may be the custodian of personal information collected in connection with the operation of our facilities.
Privacy laws in Canada are consent-based and require the implementation of a privacy program involving policies, procedures
and the designation of an individual or team with primary responsibility for privacy law compliance. Mandatory breach notification
to affected individuals is a requirement under some laws. Mandatory breach notification to the applicable regulator is a requirement
in some provinces. Some laws require notification where personal information is processed or stored outside of Canada. One
provincial law (in Quebec) provides for fines where an organization fails to perform due diligence before outsourcing activities
involving personal information to a service provider outside of the province.
The powers of privacy regulators and penalties for violations of privacy law vary according to the applicable law or are left to the
courts. To date, monetary penalties granted have been on the low side, although that is changing with civil actions for breach of
privacy and may change further as a result of class action activity. There are over 60 privacy class actions which have been filed in
Canada over recent years although none have yet been decided on their merits. Regulators have the authority to make public
11
the identity of a custodian that has been found to have committed a breach, so there is a reputational risk associated with privacy
law violations even where no monetary damages are incurred. The notification of residents (mandatory under some privacy laws)
and other activities required to manage a privacy breach can give rise to significant costs.
Other Legislation
Retirement homes may be subject to residential tenancy laws, such that there can be restrictions on rent increases and termination
of tenancies, for instance. Other provincial and/or municipal laws applicable to fire safety, food services, zoning, occupational
health and safety, public health, and the provision of community health care and funded long-term/post-acute care may also apply
to retirement homes.  
Taxation
The following summary of the taxation of the company and the material U.S. federal income tax consequences to the holders of
our debt and equity securities is for general information only and is not tax advice. This summary does not address all aspects of
taxation that may be relevant to certain types of holders of stock or securities (including, but not limited to, insurance companies,
tax-exempt entities, financial institutions or broker-dealers, persons holding shares of common stock as part of a hedging,
integrated conversion, or constructive sale transaction or a straddle, traders in securities that use a mark-to-market method of
accounting for their securities, investors in pass-through entities and foreign corporations and persons who are not citizens or
residents of the United States).
This summary does not discuss all of the aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that may be relevant to you in light of your
particular investment or other circumstances. In addition, this summary does not discuss any state or local income taxation or
foreign income taxation or other foreign tax consequences. This summary is based on current U.S. federal income tax law,
including the provisions of the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” (the “Tax Act”). A discussion of the potential implications to the Company
of the Tax Act is provided at the end of this summary below. Subsequent developments in U.S. federal income tax law, including
changes in law or differing interpretations, which may be applied retroactively, could have a material effect on the U.S. federal
income tax consequences of purchasing, owning and disposing of our securities as set forth in this summary. Before you purchase
our securities, you should consult your own tax advisor regarding the particular U.S. federal, state, local, foreign and other tax
consequences of acquiring, owning and selling our securities.
General
We elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (a “REIT”) commencing with our first taxable year. We intend to continue
to operate in such a manner as to qualify as a REIT, but there is no guarantee that we will qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for
subsequent years. Qualification and taxation as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet a variety of qualification tests imposed
under U.S. federal income tax law with respect to our income, assets, distributions and share ownership, as discussed below under
“Qualification as a REIT.” There can be no assurance that we will qualify or remain qualified as a REIT.
In any year in which we qualify as a REIT, in general, we will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on that portion of our
REIT taxable income or capital gain that is distributed to stockholders. We may, however, be subject to tax at normal corporate
rates on any taxable income or capital gain not distributed. If we elect to retain and pay income tax on our net capital gain,
stockholders would be taxed on their proportionate share of our undistributed net capital gain and would receive a refundable credit
for their share of any taxes paid by us on such gain.
Despite the REIT election, we may be subject to U.S. federal income and excise tax as follows:
•To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net capital gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our “REIT
taxable income,” as adjusted, we will be subject to tax on the undistributed amount at regular corporate tax rates;
•If we have net income from the sale or other disposition of “foreclosure property” that is held primarily for sale to customers
in the ordinary course of business or other non-qualifying income from foreclosure property, such income will be taxed at
the highest corporate rate;
•Any net income from prohibited transactions (which are, in general, sales or other dispositions of property held
primarily    for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, other than dispositions of foreclosure property) will be
subject    to a 100% tax;
•If we fail to satisfy either the 75% or 95% gross income tests (as discussed below), but nonetheless maintain our
qualification as a REIT because certain other requirements are met, we will be subject to a 100% tax on an amount equal to
(1) the gross income attributable to the greater of (i) 75% of our gross income over the amount of qualifying gross income
for purposes
12
of the 75% gross income test (discussed below) or (ii) 95% of our gross income over the amount of qualifying gross income
for purposes of the 95% gross income test (discussed below) multiplied by (2) a fraction intended to reflect our profitability;
•If we fail to distribute during each year at least the sum of (1) 85% of our REIT ordinary income for the year, (2) 95% of our
REIT capital gain net income for such year (other than capital gain that we elect to retain and pay tax on) and (3) any
undistributed taxable income from preceding periods, we will be subject to a 4% excise tax on the excess of such required
distribution over amounts actually distributed; and
•We will be subject to a 100% tax on certain amounts from certain transactions involving our “taxable REIT subsidiaries” that
are not conducted on an arm’s length basis. See “Qualification as a REIT - Investments in Taxable REIT Subsidiaries.
If we acquire any assets from a corporation, which is or has been a “C” corporation, in a carryover basis transaction (including
where a “C” corporation elects REIT status), we could be liable for specified liabilities that are inherited from the “C” corporation.
A “C” corporation is generally defined as a corporation that is required to pay full corporate level U.S. federal income tax. If we
recognize gain on the disposition of the assets during the five-year period beginning on the date on which the assets were acquired
by us, then, to the extent of the assets’ “built-in gain” (i.e., the excess of the fair market value of the asset over the adjusted tax
basis in the asset, in each case determined as of the beginning of the five-year period), we will be subject to tax on the gain at the
highest regular corporate rate applicable. The results described in this paragraph with respect to the recognition of built-in gain
assume that the “C” corporation did not make and was not treated as making an election to treat the built-in gain assets as sold to an
unrelated party. For those properties that are subject to the built-in gains tax, the potential amount of built-in gains tax will be an
additional factor when considering a possible sale of the properties within the five-year period beginning on the date on which the
properties were acquired by us. See Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the built-
in gains tax.
Qualification as a REIT
A REIT is defined as a corporation, trust or association:
(1)which is managed by one or more trustees or directors;
(2)the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced by transferable shares or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest;
(3)which would be taxable as a domestic corporation but for the U.S. federal income tax law relating to REITs;
(4)which is neither a financial institution nor an insurance company;
(5)the beneficial ownership of which is held by 100 or more persons in each taxable year of the REIT except for its first
taxable year;
(6)not more than 50% in value of the outstanding stock of which is owned during the last half of each taxable year, excluding
its first taxable year, directly, indirectly or constructively, by or for five or fewer individuals (which includes certain
entities) (the “Five or Fewer Requirement”); and
(7)which meets certain income and asset tests described below.
Conditions (1) to (4), inclusive, must be met during the entire taxable year and condition (5) must be met during at least 335 days
of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a taxable year of less than 12 months. For purposes of conditions
(5) and (6), pension funds and certain other tax-exempt entities are treated as individuals, subject to a “look-through” exception in
the case of condition (6).
Based on publicly available information, we believe we have satisfied the share ownership requirements set forth in (5) and
(6) above. In addition, Article VI of our by-laws provides for restrictions regarding ownership and transfer of shares. These
restrictions are intended to assist us in continuing to satisfy the share ownership requirements described in (5) and (6) above but
may not ensure that we will, in all cases, be able to satisfy such requirements.
We have complied with, and will continue to comply with, regulatory rules to send annual letters to certain of our stockholders
requesting information regarding the actual ownership of our stock. If, despite sending the annual letters, we do not know, or after
exercising reasonable diligence would not have known, whether we failed to meet the Five or Fewer Requirement, we will be
treated as having met the Five or Fewer Requirement. If we fail to comply with these regulatory rules, we will be subject to a
monetary penalty. If our failure to comply were due to intentional disregard of the requirement, the penalty would be increased.
However, if our failure to comply were due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect, no penalty would be imposed.
We may own a number of properties through wholly owned subsidiaries. A corporation will qualify as a “qualified REIT
subsidiary” if 100% of its stock is owned by a REIT, and the REIT does not elect to treat the subsidiary as a taxable REIT
subsidiary. A “qualified REIT subsidiary” will not be treated as a separate corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and all
assets, liabilities and items of income, deductions and credits of a “qualified REIT subsidiary” will be treated as assets, liabilities
and items (as the case may be) of the REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A “qualified REIT subsidiary” is not subject to
U.S.
13
federal income tax, and our ownership of the voting stock of a qualified REIT subsidiary will not violate the restrictions against
ownership of securities of any one issuer which constitute more than 10% of the value or total voting power of such issuer or more
than 5% of the value of our total assets, as described below under “- Asset Tests.”
If we invest in an entity treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be deemed to own a proportionate
share of the entity’s assets. Likewise, we will be treated as receiving our share of the income and loss of the entity, and the gross
income will retain the same character in our hands as it has in the hands of the entity. These “look-through” rules apply for
purposes of the income tests and assets tests described below.
The deduction of business interest is limited to 30% of adjusted taxable income, which may limit the deductibility of interest
expense by us, our taxable REIT subsidiaries, or our joint venture and partnership arrangements. A “real property trade or business”
may irrevocably elect out of the applicability of the limitation, but if it does so it must use the less favorable alternative
depreciation system to depreciate real property used in the trade or business. Proposed regulations provide guidance on how to
allocate interest deductions among multiple trades or businesses and contain special rules, including a safe harbor, regarding the
allocation of a REIT’s interest deductions to a “real property trade or business.”
Income Tests  There are two separate percentage tests relating to our sources of gross income that we must satisfy each taxable year:
•At least 75% of our gross income (excluding gross income from certain sales of property held primarily for sale) generally
must be directly or indirectly derived each taxable year from “rents from real property,” other income from investments
relating to real property or mortgages on real property or certain income from qualified temporary investments.
•At least 95% of our gross income (excluding gross income from certain sales of property held primarily for sale) generally
must be directly or indirectly derived each taxable year from any of the sources qualifying for the 75% gross income test and
from dividends (including dividends from taxable REIT subsidiaries) and interest.
Income from hedging and foreign currency transactions is excluded from the 95% and 75% gross income tests if certain
requirements are met but otherwise will constitute gross income which does not qualify under the 95% or 75% gross income tests.
Rents received by us will qualify as “rents from real property” for purposes of satisfying the gross income tests for a REIT only if
several conditions are met:
•The amount of rent must not be based in whole or in part on the income or profits of any person, although rents generally
will not be excluded merely because they are based on a fixed percentage or percentages of receipts or sales.
•Rents received from a tenant will not qualify as rents from real property if the REIT, or an owner of 10% or more of the
REIT, also directly or constructively owns 10% or more of the tenant, unless the tenant is our taxable REIT subsidiary and
certain other requirements are met with respect to the real property being rented.
•If rent attributable to personal property leased in connection with a lease of real property is greater than 15% of the total rent
received under the lease, then the portion of rent attributable to such personal property will not qualify as “rents from real
property.”
•For rents to qualify as rents from real property, we generally must not furnish or render services to tenants, other than
through a taxable REIT subsidiary or an “independent contractor” from whom we derive no income, except that we may
directly provide services that are usually or customarily rendered in the geographic area in which the property is located in
connection with the rental of real property for occupancy only or are not otherwise considered rendered to the occupant for
his convenience.
•We may lease “qualified health care properties” on an arm’s-length basis to a taxable REIT subsidiary if the property is
operated on behalf of such subsidiary by a person who qualifies as an “independent contractor” and who is, or is related to a
person who is, actively engaged in the trade or business of operating health care facilities for any person unrelated to us or
our taxable REIT subsidiary (such person, an “eligible independent contractor”). If this is the case, the rent that the REIT
receives from the taxable REIT subsidiary generally will be treated as “rents from real property.” A “qualified health care
property” includes any real property and any personal property that is, or is necessary or incidental to the use of, a hospital,
nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate care facility, qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility
that extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients and is operated by a provider of such services that is eligible
for participation in the Medicare program with respect to such facility.
14
A REIT is permitted to render a de minimis amount of impermissible services to tenants and still treat amounts received with
respect to that property as rent from real property. The amount received or accrued by the REIT during the taxable year for the
impermissible services with respect to a property may not exceed 1% of all amounts received or accrued by the REIT directly or
indirectly from the property. The amount received for any service or management operation for this purpose shall be deemed to be
not less than 150% of the direct cost of the REIT in furnishing or rendering the service or providing the management or operation.
Furthermore, impermissible services may be furnished to tenants by a taxable REIT subsidiary subject to certain conditions, which
would permit us to still treat rents received with respect to the property as rent from real property.
The term “interest” generally does not include any amount if the determination of the amount depends in whole or in part on the
income or profits of any person, although an amount generally will not be excluded from the term “interest” solely by reason of
being based on a fixed percentage of receipts or sales.
If we fail to satisfy one or both of the 75% or 95% gross income tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless qualify as a
REIT for such year if we are eligible for certain relief provisions provided by the Internal Revenue Code. These relief provisions
generally will be available if (1) following our identification of the failure, we file a schedule for such taxable year describing each
item of our gross income, and (2) the failure to meet such tests was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect. It is not
now possible to determine the circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions. If these relief
provisions apply, a 100% tax is imposed on an amount equal to (a) the gross income attributable to (1) 75% of our gross income
over the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 75% income test and (2) 95% of our gross income over the amount
of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 95% income test, multiplied by (b) a fraction intended to reflect our profitability.
The Secretary of the Treasury is given broad authority to determine whether particular items of income or gain qualify under the
75% and 95% gross income tests and to exclude items from the measure of gross income for such purposes.
Asset Tests  Within 30 days after the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must also satisfy several tests relating to the
nature and diversification of our assets determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. At least 75% of the
value of our total assets must be represented by real estate assets (including interests in real property, interests in mortgages on real
property or on interests in real property, shares in other REITs and debt instruments issued by publicly offered REITs), cash, cash
items (including receivables arising in the ordinary course of our operation), government securities and qualified temporary
investments. Although the remaining 25% of our assets generally may be invested without restriction, we are prohibited from
owning securities representing more than 10% of either the vote (the “10% vote test”) or value (the “10% value test”) of the
outstanding securities of any issuer other than a qualified REIT subsidiary, another REIT or a taxable REIT subsidiary. Further, no
more than 20% of our total assets may be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries (the “20% asset test”)
and no more than 5% of the value of our total assets may be represented by securities of any non-governmental issuer other than a
qualified REIT subsidiary (the “5% asset test”), another REIT or a taxable REIT subsidiary. Each of the 10% vote test, the 10%
value test and the 20% and 5% asset tests must be satisfied at the end of each quarter. There are special rules which provide relief if
the value-related tests are not satisfied due to changes in the value of the assets of a REIT.
Certain items are excluded from the 10% value test, including: (1) straight debt securities meeting certain requirements; (2) any
loan to an individual or an estate; (3) any rental agreement described in Section 467 of the Internal Revenue Code, other than with a
“related person”; (4) any obligation to pay rents from real property; (5) certain securities issued by a state or any subdivision
thereof, the District of Columbia, a foreign government, or any political subdivision thereof, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
(6) any security issued by a REIT; and (7) any other arrangement that, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, is excepted
from the definition of security (“excluded securities”). If a REIT, or its taxable REIT subsidiary, holds (1) straight debt securities of
a corporate or partnership issuer and (2) securities of such issuer that are not excluded securities and have an aggregate value
greater than 1% of such issuer’s outstanding securities, the straight debt securities will be included in the 10% value test.
A REIT’s interest as a partner in a partnership is not treated as a security for purposes of applying the 10% value test to securities
issued by the partnership. Further, any debt instrument issued by a partnership that is not an excluded security will not be a security
for purposes of applying the 10% value test (1) to the extent of the REIT’s interest as a partner in the partnership or (2) if at least
75% of the partnership’s gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) would qualify for the 75% gross
income test. For purposes of the 10% value test, a REIT’s interest in a partnership’s assets is determined by the REIT’s
proportionate interest in any securities issued by the partnership (other than the excluded securities described in the preceding
paragraph).
For taxable years beginning after July 30, 2008, if the REIT or its “qualified business unit” uses a foreign currency as its
functional currency, the term “cash” includes such foreign currency, but only to the extent such foreign currency is (i) held for use
in the normal course of the activities of the REIT or “qualified business unit” which give rise to items of income or gain that are
included in the 95% and 75% gross income tests or are directly related to acquiring or holding assets qualifying under the 75%
asset test, and (ii) not held in connection with dealing or engaging in substantial and regular trading in securities.
15
With respect to corrections of failures as to violations of the 10% vote test, the 10% value test or the 5% asset test, a REIT may
avoid disqualification as a REIT by disposing of sufficient assets to cure a violation that does not exceed the lesser of 1% of the
REIT’s assets at the end of the relevant quarter or $10,000,000, provided that the disposition occurs within six months following
the last day of the quarter in which the REIT first identified the assets. For violations of any of the REIT asset tests due to
reasonable cause and not willful neglect that exceed the thresholds described in the preceding sentence, a REIT can avoid
disqualification as a REIT after the close of a taxable quarter by taking certain steps, including disposition of sufficient assets
within the six month period described above to meet the applicable asset test, paying a tax equal to the greater of $50,000 or the
highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net income generated by the non-qualifying assets during the period of time that the
assets were held as non-qualifying assets and filing a schedule with the Internal Revenue Service that describes the non-qualifying
assets.
Investments in Taxable REIT Subsidiaries  REITs may own more than 10% of the voting power and value of securities in taxable
REIT subsidiaries. Unlike a qualified REIT subsidiary, other disregarded entity or partnership, the income and assets of a taxable
REIT subsidiary are not attributable to the REIT for purposes of satisfying the income and asset ownership requirements applicable
to REIT qualification. We and any taxable corporate entity in which we own an interest are allowed to jointly elect to treat such
entity as a “taxable REIT subsidiary.”
Certain of our subsidiaries have elected taxable REIT subsidiary status. Taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to full corporate
level U.S. federal taxation on their earnings but are permitted to engage in certain types of activities that cannot be performed
directly by REITs without jeopardizing their REIT status. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries will attempt to minimize the amount of
these taxes, but there can be no assurance whether or the extent to which measures taken to minimize taxes will be successful. To
the extent our taxable REIT subsidiaries are required to pay U.S. federal, state or local taxes, the cash available for distribution as
dividends to us from our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be reduced.
The Internal Revenue Service may redetermine amounts from transactions between a REIT and its taxable REIT subsidiary
where there is a lack of arm’s-length dealing between the parties. Any taxable income allocated to, or deductible expenses allocated
away, from a taxable REIT subsidiary would increase its tax liability. Further, certain amounts from certain transactions involving a
REIT and its taxable REIT subsidiaries could be subject to a 100% tax if not conducted on an arm’s length basis. Additional taxable
REIT subsidiary elections may be made in the future for additional entities in which we obtain an interest.
Annual Distribution Requirements  In order to avoid being taxed as a regular corporation, we are required to make distributions
(other than capital gain distributions) to our stockholders which qualify for the dividends paid deduction in an amount at least equal
to (1) the sum of (i) 90% of our “REIT taxable income” (computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and our net
capital gain) and (ii) 90% of the after-tax net income, if any, from foreclosure property, minus (2) a portion of certain items of non-
cash income. These distributions must be paid in the taxable year to which they relate, or in the following taxable year if declared
before we timely file our tax return for that year and if paid on or before the first regular distribution payment after such
declaration. Prior to 2014, with respect to all REITs the amount distributed could not be preferential. This means that every
stockholder of the class of stock to which a distribution is made must be treated the same as every other stockholder of that class,
and no class of stock may be treated otherwise than in accordance with its dividend rights as a class (the “preferential dividend
rule”). Beginning in tax years after 2014, the preferential dividend rule no longer applies to publicly offered REITs, however, the
rule is still applicable to other entities taxed as REITs, which would include several of our subsidiaries. To the extent that we do not
distribute all of our net capital gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our “REIT taxable income,” as adjusted, we
will be subject to tax on the undistributed amount at regular corporate tax rates. As discussed above, we may be subject to an excise
tax if we fail to meet certain other distribution requirements. We believe we have satisfied the annual distribution requirements for
the year of our initial REIT election and each year thereafter through the year ended December 31, 2018. Although we intend to
make timely distributions sufficient to satisfy these annual distribution requirements for subsequent years, economic, market, legal,
tax or other factors could limit our ability to meet those requirements. See “Item 1A - Risk Factors.”
It is also possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution
requirement, or to distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, due to, among other
things, (1) timing differences between (i) the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses and (ii) the
inclusion of income and deduction of expenses in arriving at our taxable income, or (2) the payment of severance benefits that may
not be deductible to us. In the event that timing differences occur, we may find it necessary to arrange for borrowings or, if
possible, pay dividends in the form of taxable stock dividends in order to meet the distribution requirement.
Under certain circumstances, including in the event of a deficiency determined by the Internal Revenue Service, we may be able
to rectify a resulting failure to meet the distribution requirement for a year by paying “deficiency dividends” to stockholders in a
later year, which may be included in our deduction for distributions paid for the earlier year. Thus, we may be able to avoid being
disqualified as a REIT and/or taxed on amounts distributed as deficiency dividends; however, we will be required to pay applicable
penalties and interest based upon the amount of any deduction taken for deficiency dividend distributions.
16
Failure to Qualify as a REIT
If we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable
income at regular corporate rates. Distributions to stockholders in any year in which we fail to qualify as a REIT will not be
deductible nor will any particular amount of distributions be required to be made in any year. All distributions to stockholders will
be taxable as dividends to the extent of current and accumulated earnings and profits allocable to these distributions and, subject to
certain limitations, will be eligible for the dividends received deduction for corporate stockholders. Unless entitled to relief under
specific statutory provisions, we also will be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year
during which qualification was lost. It is not possible to state whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to statutory relief.
Failure to qualify for even one year could result in our need to incur indebtedness or liquidate investments in order to pay
potentially significant resulting tax liabilities.
In addition to the relief described above under “Income Tests” and “Asset Tests,” relief is available in the event that we violate a
provision of the Internal Revenue Code that would result in our failure to qualify as a REIT if: (1) the violation is due to reasonable
cause and not due to willful neglect; (2) we pay a penalty of $50,000 for each failure to satisfy the provision; and (3) the violation
does not include a violation described under “Income Tests” or “Asset Tests” above. It is not now possible to determine the
circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions.
U.S. Federal Income Taxation of Holders of Our Stock
Treatment of Taxable U.S. Stockholders  The following summary applies to you only if you are a “U.S. stockholder.” A
“U.S. stockholder” is a holder of shares of stock who, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, is:
•a citizen or resident of the United States;
•a corporation, partnership or other entity classified as a corporation or partnership for these purposes, created or organize in
or under the laws of the United States or of any political subdivision of the United States, including any state;
•an estate, the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source; or
•a trust, if, in general, a U.S. court is able to exercise primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one or more
U.S. persons, within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code, has the authority to control all of the trust’s substantial
decisions.
So long as we qualify for taxation as a REIT, distributions on shares of our stock made out of the current or accumulated earnings
and profits allocable to these distributions (and not designated as capital gain dividends) will be taxable as dividends for U.S.
federal income tax purposes. None of these distributions will be eligible for the dividends received deduction for U.S. corporate
stockholders.
Generally, the current maximum marginal rate of tax payable by individuals on dividends received from corporations that are
subject to a corporate level of tax is 20%. Except in limited circumstances, this tax rate will not apply to dividends paid to you by
us on our shares, because generally we are not subject to U.S. federal income tax on the portion of our REIT taxable income or
capital gains distributed to our stockholders. The reduced maximum U.S. federal income tax rate will apply to that portion, if any,
of dividends received by you with respect to our shares that are attributable to: (1) dividends received by us from non-REIT
corporations or other taxable REIT subsidiaries; (2) income from the prior year with respect to which we were required to pay U.S.
federal corporate income tax during the prior year (if, for example, we did not distribute 100% of our REIT taxable income for the
prior year); or (3) the amount of any earnings and profits that were distributed by us and accumulated in a non-REIT year.
Although the preferential 20% rate on qualified dividends is generally not applicable to dividends to our shareholders, the Tax
Act provides for a deduction from income for individuals, trusts and estates for 20% of taxable REIT dividends not eligible for the
preferential rate, excluding capital gain dividends. This deduction is not taken into account for purposes of determining the 3.8%
tax on net investment income (described below) and, unlike the preferential rate, expires after 2025.
Distributions that are designated as capital gain dividends will be taxed as long-term capital gains (to the extent they do not
exceed our actual net capital gain for the taxable year), without regard to the period for which you held our stock. However, if you
are a corporation, you may be required to treat a portion of some capital gain dividends as ordinary income.
If we elect to retain and pay income tax on any net capital gain and designate such amount in a timely notice to you, you would
include in income, as long-term capital gain, your proportionate share of this net capital gain. You would also receive a refundable
17
tax credit for your proportionate share of the tax paid by us on such retained capital gains, and you would have an increase in the
basis of your shares of our stock in an amount equal to your includable capital gains less your share of the tax deemed paid.
You may not include in your U.S. federal income tax return any of our net operating losses or capital losses. U.S. federal income
tax rules may also require that certain minimum tax adjustments and preferences be apportioned to you. In addition, any
distribution declared by us in October, November or December of any year on a specified date in any such month shall be treated as
both paid by us and received by you on December 31 of that year, provided that the distribution is actually paid by us no later than
January 31 of the following year.
We will be treated as having sufficient earnings and profits to treat as a dividend any distribution up to the amount required to be
distributed in order to avoid imposition of the 4% excise tax discussed under “General” and “Qualification as a REIT - Annual
Distribution Requirements” above. As a result, you may be required to treat as taxable dividends certain distributions that would
otherwise result in a tax-free return of capital. Moreover, any “deficiency dividend” will be treated as a dividend (an ordinary
dividend or a capital gain dividend, as the case may be), regardless of our earnings and profits. Any other distributions in excess of
current or accumulated earnings and profits will generally not be taxable to you to the extent these distributions do not exceed the
adjusted tax basis of your shares of our stock. You will be required to reduce the tax basis of your shares of our stock by the amount
of these distributions until the basis has been reduced to zero, after which these distributions will be taxable as capital gain, if the
shares of our stock are held as capital assets. The tax basis as so reduced will be used in computing the capital gain or loss, if any,
realized upon the sale of the shares of our stock. Any loss upon a sale or exchange of shares of our stock which were held for six
months or less (after application of certain holding period rules) will generally be treated as a long-term capital loss to the extent
you previously received capital gain distributions with respect to these shares of our stock.
Upon the sale or exchange of any shares of our stock to or with a person other than us or a sale or exchange of all shares of our
stock (whether actually or constructively owned) with us, you will generally recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between
the amount realized on the sale or exchange and your adjusted tax basis in these shares of our stock. This gain or loss will be capital
gain or loss if you held these shares of our stock as a capital asset.
If we redeem any of your shares in us, the treatment can only be determined on the basis of particular facts at the time of
redemption. In general, you will recognize gain or loss (as opposed to dividend income) equal to the difference between the amount
received by you in the redemption and your adjusted tax basis in your shares redeemed if such redemption: (1) results in a
“complete termination” of your interest in all classes of our equity securities; (2) is a “substantially disproportionate redemption”;
or (3) is “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” with respect to you. In applying these tests, you must take into account your
ownership of all classes of our equity securities (e.g., common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants). You also
must take into account any equity securities that are considered to be constructively owned by you.
If, as a result of a redemption by us of your shares, you no longer own (either actually or constructively) any of our equity
securities or only own (actually and constructively) an insubstantial percentage of our equity securities, then it is probable that the
redemption of your shares would be considered “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” and, thus, would result in gain or loss to
you. However, whether a distribution is “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” depends on all of the facts and circumstances,
and if you rely on any of these tests at the time of redemption, you should consult your tax advisor to determine their application to
the particular situation.
Generally, if the redemption does not meet the tests described above, then the proceeds received by you from the redemption of
your shares will be treated as a distribution taxable as a dividend to the extent of the allocable portion of current or accumulated
earnings and profits. If the redemption is taxed as a dividend, your adjusted tax basis in the redeemed shares will be transferred to
any other shareholdings in us that you own. If you own no other shareholdings in us, under certain circumstances, such basis may
be transferred to a related person, or it may be lost entirely.
Gain from the sale or exchange of our shares held for more than one year is generally taxed at a maximum long-term capital gain
rate of 20% in the case of stockholders who are individuals and 21% in the case of stockholders that are corporations. Pursuant to
Internal Revenue Service guidance, we may classify portions of our capital gain dividends as eligible for specific treatment
provided under the Internal Revenue Code, which, depending on the nature of the capital gains, may result in taxation of such
portions at rates of either 20% or 25%. Capital losses recognized by a stockholder upon the disposition of our shares held for more
than one year at the time of disposition will be considered long-term capital losses. The deduction for capital losses is subject to
limitations.
An additional tax of 3.8% generally will be imposed on the “net investment income” of U.S. stockholders who meet certain
requirements and are individuals, estates or certain trusts. Among other items, “net investment income” generally includes gross
income from dividends and net gain attributable to the disposition of certain property, such as shares of our common stock or
18
warrants. In the case of individuals, this tax will only apply to the extent such individual’s modified adjusted gross income exceeds
$200,000 ($250,000 for married couples filing a joint return and surviving spouses, and $125,000 for married individuals filing a
separate return). U.S. stockholders should consult their tax advisors regarding the possible applicability of this additional tax in
their particular circumstances.
Treatment of Tax-Exempt U.S. Stockholders  Tax-exempt entities, including qualified employee pension and profit sharing trusts
and individual retirement accounts (“Exempt Organizations”), generally are exempt from U.S. federal income taxation. However,
they are subject to taxation on their unrelated business taxable income (“UBTI”). The Internal Revenue Service has issued a
published revenue ruling that dividend distributions from a REIT to an exempt employee pension trust do not constitute UBTI,
provided that the shares of the REIT are not otherwise used in an unrelated trade or business of the exempt employee pension trust.
Based on this ruling, amounts distributed by us to Exempt Organizations generally should not constitute UBTI. However, if an
Exempt Organization finances its acquisition of the shares of our stock with debt, a portion of its income from us will constitute
UBTI pursuant to the “debt financed property” rules. Likewise, a portion of the Exempt Organization’s income from us would
constitute UBTI if we held a residual interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit. A tax-exempt U.S. stockholder that is
subject to tax on its UBTI will be required to segregate its taxable income and loss for each unrelated trade or business activity for
purposes of determining its UBTI.
Backup Withholding and Information Reporting Under certain circumstances, you may be subject to backup withholding at
applicable rates on payments made with respect to, or cash proceeds of a sale or exchange of, shares of our stock. Backup
withholding will apply only if you: (1) fail to provide a correct taxpayer identification number, which if you are an individual, is
ordinarily your social security number; (2) furnish an incorrect taxpayer identification number; (3) are notified by the Internal
Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments of interest or dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under penalties of
perjury, that you have furnished a correct taxpayer identification number and that the Internal Revenue Service has not notified you
that you are subject to backup withholding.
Backup withholding will not apply with respect to payments made to certain exempt recipients, such as corporations and tax-
exempt organizations. You should consult with a tax advisor regarding qualification for exemption from backup withholding, and
the procedure for obtaining an exemption. Backup withholding is not an additional tax. Rather, the amount of any backup
withholding with respect to a payment to a stockholder will be allowed as a credit against such stockholder’s U.S. federal income
tax liability and may entitle such stockholder to a refund, provided that the required information is provided to the Internal Revenue
Service. In addition, withholding a portion of capital gain distributions made to stockholders may be required for stockholders who
fail to certify their non-foreign status.
Taxation of Foreign Stockholders  The following summary applies to you only if you are a foreign person. A “foreign person” is a
holder of shares of stock who, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, is not a U.S. stockholder. The U.S. federal taxation of foreign
persons is a highly complex matter that may be affected by many considerations.
Except as discussed below, distributions to you of cash generated by our real estate operations in the form of ordinary dividends,
but not by the sale or exchange of our capital assets, generally will be subject to U.S. withholding tax at a rate of 30%, unless an
applicable tax treaty reduces that tax and you file with us the required form evidencing the lower rate.
In general, you will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on a graduated rate basis rather than withholding with respect to your
investment in our stock if such investment is “effectively connected” with your conduct of a trade or business in the United States.
A corporate foreign stockholder that receives income that is, or is treated as, effectively connected with a United States trade or
business may also be subject to the branch profits tax, which is payable in addition to regular United States corporate income tax.
The following discussion will apply to foreign stockholders whose investment in us is not so effectively connected. We expect to
withhold United States income tax, as described below, on the gross amount of any distributions paid to you unless (1) you file an
Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI with us claiming that the distribution is “effectively connected” or (2) certain other
exceptions apply.
Distributions by us that are attributable to gain from the sale or exchange of a United States real property interest will be taxed to
you under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980 (“FIRPTA”) as if these distributions were gains “effectively
connected” with a United States trade or business. Accordingly, you will be taxed at the normal capital gain rates applicable to a
U.S. stockholder on these amounts, subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax and a special alternative minimum tax in the
case of nonresident alien individuals. Distributions subject to FIRPTA may also be subject to a branch profits tax in the hands of a
corporate foreign stockholder that is not entitled to treaty exemption. We will be required to withhold tax at a rate of 21% from
distributions subject to FIRPTA. We will be required to withhold from distributions subject to FIRPTA, and remit to the Internal
Revenue Service, 21% of designated capital gain dividends, or, if greater, 21% of the amount of any distributions that could be
designated as capital gain dividends. In addition, if we designate prior distributions as capital gain dividends, subsequent
19
distributions, up to the amount of the prior distributions not withheld against, will be treated as capital gain dividends for purposes
of withholding.
Any capital gain dividend with respect to any class of stock that is “regularly traded” on an established securities market will be
treated as an ordinary dividend if the foreign stockholder did not own more than 10% of such class of stock at any time during the
taxable year. Foreign stockholders generally will not be required to report distributions received from us on U.S. federal income tax
returns and all distributions treated as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes (including any such capital gain dividends)
will be subject to a 30% U.S. withholding tax (unless reduced under an applicable income tax treaty) as discussed above. In
addition, the branch profits tax will not apply to such distributions.
Unless our shares constitute a “United States real property interest” within the meaning of FIRPTA or are effectively connected
with a U.S. trade or business, a sale of our shares by you generally will not be subject to United States taxation. Even if our shares
were to constitute a “United States real property interest,” non-U.S. stockholders that are “qualified foreign pension funds” (or are
owned by a qualified foreign pension fund) meeting certain requirements may be exempt from FIRPTA withholding on the sale or
disposition of our shares. Our shares will not constitute a United States real property interest if we qualify as a “domestically
controlled REIT.” We believe that we qualify as and expect to continue to qualify as a domestically controlled REIT. A
domestically controlled REIT is a REIT in which at all times during a specified testing period less than 50% in value of its shares is
held directly or indirectly by foreign stockholders. Generally, we are permitted to assume that holders of less than 5% of our shares
at all times during a specified testing period are U.S. persons. However, if you are a nonresident alien individual who is present in
the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year and certain other conditions apply, you will be subject to a 30% tax
on such capital gains. In any event, a purchaser of our shares from you will not be required under FIRPTA to withhold on the
purchase price if the purchased shares are “regularly traded” on an established securities market or if we are a domestically
controlled REIT. Otherwise, under FIRPTA, the purchaser may be required to withhold 15% of the purchase price and remit such
amount to the Internal Revenue Service.
Backup withholding tax and information reporting will generally not apply to distributions paid to you outside the United States
that are treated as: (1) dividends to which the 30% or lower treaty rate withholding tax discussed above applies; (2) capital gains
dividends; or (3) distributions attributable to gain from the sale or exchange by us of U.S. real property interests. Payment of the
proceeds of a sale of stock within the United States or conducted through certain U.S. related financial intermediaries is subject to
both backup withholding and information reporting unless the beneficial owner certifies under penalties of perjury that he or she is
not a U.S. person (and the payor does not have actual knowledge that the beneficial owner is a U.S. person) or otherwise
established an exemption. You may obtain a refund of any amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules by filing the
appropriate claim for refund with the Internal Revenue Service.
Withholding tax at a rate of 30% will be imposed on certain payments to you or certain foreign financial institutions (including
investment funds) and other non-US persons receiving payments on your behalf, including distributions in respect of shares of our
stock, if you or such institutions fail to comply with certain due diligence, disclosure and reporting rules, as set forth in Treasury
regulations. Accordingly, the entity through which shares of our stock are held will affect the determination of whether such
withholding is required. Stockholders that are otherwise eligible for an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. withholding taxes
with respect to such dividends will be required to seek a refund from the Internal Revenue Service to obtain the benefit of such
exemption or reduction. Additional requirements and conditions may be imposed pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement, if
and when entered into, between the United States and such institution’s home jurisdiction. We will not pay any additional amounts
to any stockholders in respect of any amounts withheld. You are encouraged to consult with your tax advisor regarding U.S.
withholding taxes and the application of Treasury regulations in light of your particular circumstances.
U.S. Federal Income Taxation of Holders of Depositary Shares
Owners of our depositary shares will be treated as if you were owners of the series of preferred stock represented by the
depositary shares. Thus, you will be required to take into account the income and deductions to which you would be entitled if you
were a holder of the underlying series of preferred stock.
Conversion or Exchange of Shares for Preferred Stock  No gain or loss will be recognized upon the withdrawal of preferred stock
in exchange for depositary shares and the tax basis of each share of preferred stock will, upon exchange, be the same as the
aggregate tax basis of the depositary shares exchanged. If you held your depositary shares as a capital asset at the time of the
exchange for shares of preferred stock, the holding period for your shares of preferred stock will include the period during which
you owned the depositary shares.
U.S. Federal Income and Estate Taxation of Holders of Our Debt Securities
20
The following is a general summary of the U.S. federal income tax consequences and, in the case that you are a holder that is a
non-U.S. holder, as defined below, the U.S. federal estate tax consequences, of purchasing, owning and disposing of debt securities
periodically offered under one or more indentures (the “notes”). This summary assumes that you hold the notes as capital assets.
This summary applies to you only if you are the initial holder of the notes and you acquire the notes for a price equal to the issue
price of the notes. The issue price of the notes is the first price at which a substantial amount of the notes is sold other than to bond
houses, brokers or similar persons or organizations acting in the capacity of underwriters, placement agents or wholesalers. In
addition, this summary does not consider any foreign, state, local or other tax laws that may be applicable to us or a purchaser of
the notes.
U.S. Holders
The following summary applies to you only if you are a U.S. holder, as defined below.
Definition of a U.S. Holder  A “U.S. holder” is a beneficial owner of a note or notes that is for U.S. federal income tax purposes:
•a citizen or resident of the United States;
•a corporation, partnership or other entity classified as a corporation or partnership for these purposes, created or organized in
or under the laws of the United States or of any political subdivision of the United States, including any state;
•an estate, the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source; or
•a trust, if, in general, a U.S. court is able to exercise primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one or more
U.S. persons, within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code, has the authority to control all of the trust’s substantial
decisions.
Payments of Interest  Stated interest on the notes generally will be taxed as ordinary interest income from domestic sources at the
time it is paid or accrues in accordance with your method of accounting for tax purposes.
Sale, Exchange or Other Disposition of Notes  The adjusted tax basis in your note will generally be your cost. You generally will
recognize taxable gain or loss when you sell or otherwise dispose of your notes equal to the difference, if any, between:
•the amount realized on the sale or other disposition, less any amount attributable to any accrued interest, which will be
taxable in the manner described under “Payments of Interest” above; and
•your adjusted tax basis in the notes.
Your gain or loss generally will be capital gain or loss. This capital gain or loss will be long-term capital gain or loss if at the time
of the sale or other disposition you have held the notes for more than one year. Subject to limited exceptions, your capital losses
cannot be used to offset your ordinary income (except in the case of individuals, who may offset up to $3,000 of ordinary income
each year).
Backup Withholding and Information Reporting  In general, “backup withholding” may apply to any payments made to you of
principal and interest on your note, and to payment of the proceeds of a sale or other disposition of your note before maturity, if you
are a non-corporate U.S. holder and: (1) fail to provide a correct taxpayer identification number, which if you are an individual, is
ordinarily your social security number; (2) furnish an incorrect taxpayer identification number; (3) are notified by the Internal
Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments of interest or dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under penalties of
perjury, that you have furnished a correct taxpayer identification number and that the Internal Revenue Service has not notified you
that you are subject to backup withholding.
The amount of any reportable payments, including interest, made to you (unless you are an exempt recipient) and the amount of
tax withheld, if any, with respect to such payments will be reported to you and to the Internal Revenue Service for each calendar
year. You should consult your tax advisor regarding your qualification for an exemption from backup withholding and the
procedures for obtaining such an exemption, if applicable. The backup withholding tax is not an additional tax and will be credited
against your U.S. federal income tax liability, provided that correct information is provided to the Internal Revenue Service.
Non-U.S. Holders
The following summary applies to you if you are a beneficial owner of a note and are not a U.S. holder, as defined above (a
“non-U.S. holder”).
21
Special rules may apply to certain non-U.S. holders such as “controlled foreign corporations,” “passive foreign investment
companies” and “foreign personal holding companies.” Such entities are encouraged to consult their tax advisors to determine the
U.S. federal, state, local and other tax consequences that may be relevant to them.
U.S. Federal Withholding Tax  Subject to the discussion below, U.S. federal withholding tax will not apply to payments by us or
our paying agent, in its capacity as such, of principal and interest on your notes under the “portfolio interest” exception of the
Internal Revenue Code, provided that:
•you do not, directly or indirectly, actually or constructively, own 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all
classes of our stock entitled to vote;
•you are not (1) a controlled foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is related, directly or indirectly, to
us through sufficient stock ownership, as provided in the Internal Revenue Code, or (2) a bank receiving interest described in
Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code;
•such interest is not effectively connected with your conduct of a U.S. trade or business; and
•you provide a signed written statement, under penalties of perjury, which can reliably be related to you, certifying that you
are not a U.S. person within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code and providing your name and address to us or our
paying agent; or
•a securities clearing organization, bank or other financial institution that holds customers’ securities in the ordinary course of
its trade or business and holds your notes on your behalf and that certifies to us or our paying agent under penalties of
perjury that it, or the bank or financial institution between it and you, has received from you your signed, written statement
and provides us or our paying agent with a copy of such statement.
Treasury regulations provide that:
•if you are a foreign partnership, the certification requirement will generally apply to your partners, and you will be required
to provide certain information;
•if you are a foreign trust, the certification requirement will generally be applied to you or your beneficial owners depending
on whether you are a “foreign complex trust,” “foreign simple trust,” or “foreign grantor trust” as defined in the Treasury
regulations; and
•look-through rules will apply for tiered partnerships, foreign simple trusts and foreign grantor trusts.
If you are a foreign partnership or a foreign trust, you should consult your own tax advisor regarding your status under these
Treasury regulations and the certification requirements applicable to you.
If you cannot satisfy the portfolio interest requirements described above, payments of interest will be subject to the 30% United
States withholding tax, unless you provide us with a properly executed (1) Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming an
exemption from or reduction in withholding under the benefit of an applicable treaty or (2) Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI
stating that interest paid on the note is not subject to withholding tax because it is effectively connected with your conduct of a
trade or business in the United States. Alternative documentation may be applicable in certain circumstances.
If you are engaged in a trade or business in the United States and interest on a note is effectively connected with the conduct of
that trade or business, you will be required to pay U.S. federal income tax on that interest on a net income basis (although you will
be exempt from the 30% withholding tax provided the certification requirement described above is met) in the same manner as if
you were a U.S. person, except as otherwise provided by an applicable tax treaty. If you are a foreign corporation, you may be
required to pay a branch profits tax on the earnings and profits that are effectively connected to the conduct of your trade or
business in the United States.
Withholding tax at a rate of 30% will be imposed on payments of interest (including original issue discount) to you or certain
foreign financial institutions (including investment funds) and other non-US persons receiving payments on your behalf if you or
such institutions fail to comply with certain due diligence, disclosure and reporting rules, as set forth in Treasury regulations. We
will not pay any additional amounts to any holders of our debt instruments in respect of any amounts withheld. You are encouraged
to consult with your tax advisor regarding U.S. withholding taxes and the application of the relevant Treasury regulations in light of
your particular circumstances.
Sale, Exchange or other Disposition of Notes  You generally will not have to pay U.S. federal income tax on any gain or income
realized from the sale, redemption, retirement at maturity or other disposition of your notes, unless:
22
•in the case of gain, you are an individual who is present in the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year of
the sale or other disposition of your notes, and specific other conditions are met;
•you are subject to tax provisions applicable to certain United States expatriates; or
•the gain is effectively connected with your conduct of a U.S. trade or business.
If you are engaged in a trade or business in the United States, and gain with respect to your notes is effectively connected with
the conduct of that trade or business, you generally will be subject to U.S. income tax on a net basis on the gain. In addition, if you
are a foreign corporation, you may be subject to a branch profits tax on your effectively connected earnings and profits for the
taxable year, as adjusted for certain items.
U.S. Federal Estate Tax.  If you are an individual and are not a U.S. citizen or a resident of the United States, as specially defined
for U.S. federal estate tax purposes, at the time of your death, your notes will generally not be subject to the U.S. federal estate tax,
unless, at the time of your death (1) you owned actually or constructively 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all
our classes of stock entitled to vote, or (2) interest on the notes is effectively connected with your conduct of a U.S. trade or
business.
Backup Withholding and Information Reporting  Backup withholding will not apply to payments of principal or interest made by
us or our paying agent, in its capacity as such, to you if you have provided the required certification that you are a non-U.S. holder
as described in “U.S. Federal Withholding Tax” above, and provided that neither we nor our paying agent have actual knowledge
that you are a U.S. holder, as described in “U.S. Holders” above. We or our paying agent may, however, report payments of interest
on the notes.
The gross proceeds from the disposition of your notes may be subject to information reporting and backup withholding tax. If
you sell your notes outside the United States through a non-U.S. office of a non-U.S. broker and the sales proceeds are paid to you
outside the United States, then the U.S. backup withholding and information reporting requirements generally will not apply to that
payment. However, U.S. information reporting, but not backup withholding, will apply to a payment of sales proceeds, even if that
payment is made outside the United States, if you sell your notes through a non-U.S. office of a broker that:
•is a U.S. person, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code;
•derives 50% or more of its gross income in specific periods from the conduct of a trade or business in the United States;
•is a “controlled foreign corporation” for U.S. federal income tax purposes; or
•is a foreign partnership, if at any time during its tax year, one or more of its partners are U.S. persons who in the aggregate
hold more than 50% of the income or capital interests in the partnership, or the foreign partnership is engaged in a U.S. trade
or business, unless the broker has documentary evidence in its files that you are a non-U.S. person and certain other
conditions are met or you otherwise establish an exemption. If you receive payments of the proceeds of a sale of your notes
to or through a U.S. office of a broker, the payment is subject to both U.S. backup withholding and information reporting
unless you provide a Form W-8BEN certifying that you are a non-U.S. person or you otherwise establish an exemption.
You should consult your own tax advisor regarding application of backup withholding in your particular circumstance and the
availability of and procedure for obtaining an exemption from backup withholding. Any amounts withheld under the backup
withholding rules from a payment to you will be allowed as a refund or credit against your U.S. federal income tax liability,
provided the required information is furnished to the Internal Revenue Service.
U.S. Federal Income of Holders of Our Warrants
Exercise of Warrants  You will not generally recognize gain or loss upon the exercise of a warrant. Your basis in the debt
securities, preferred stock, depositary shares or common stock, as the case may be, received upon the exercise of the warrant will
be equal to the sum of your adjusted tax basis in the warrant and the exercise price paid. Your holding period in the debt securities,
preferred stock, depositary shares or common stock, as the case may be, received upon the exercise of the warrant will not include
the period during which the warrant was held by you.
Expiration of Warrants  Upon the expiration of a warrant, you will generally recognize a capital loss in an amount equal to your
adjusted tax basis in the warrant.
Sale or Exchange of Warrants  Upon the sale or exchange of a warrant to a person other than us, you will recognize gain or loss
in an amount equal to the difference between the amount realized on the sale or exchange and your adjusted tax basis in the
warrant.
23
Such gain or loss will generally be capital gain or loss and will be long-term capital gain or loss if the warrant was held for more
than one year. Upon the sale of the warrant to us, the Internal Revenue Service may argue that you should recognize ordinary
income on the sale. You are advised to consult your own tax advisors as to the consequences of a sale of a warrant to us.
Potential Legislation or Other Actions Affecting Tax Consequences
Current and prospective securities holders should recognize that the present U.S. federal income tax treatment of an investment
in us may be modified by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time and that any such action may affect investments
and commitments previously made. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons
involved in the legislative process and by the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of the Treasury, resulting in revisions of
regulations and revised interpretations of established concepts as well as statutory changes. Revisions in U.S. federal tax laws and
interpretations of these laws could adversely affect the tax consequences of an investment in us.
State, Local and Foreign Taxes
We, and holders of our debt and equity securities, may be subject to state, local or foreign taxation in various jurisdictions,
including those in which we or they transact business, own property or reside. It should be noted that we own properties located in
a number of state, local and foreign jurisdictions, and may be required to file tax returns in some or all of those jurisdictions. The
state, local or foreign tax treatment of us and holders of our debt and equity securities may not conform to the U.S. federal income
tax consequences discussed above. Consequently, you are urged to consult your advisor regarding the application and effect of
state, local and foreign tax laws with respect to any investment in our securities.
Changes in applicable tax regulations could negatively affect our financial results
The Company is subject to taxation in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Because, even with the passage of the Tax
Act, the U.S. maintains a worldwide corporate tax system, the foreign and U.S. tax systems are somewhat interdependent.
Longstanding international tax norms that determine each country’s jurisdiction to tax cross-border international trade are evolving
and could reduce the ability of our foreign subsidiaries to deduct for foreign tax purposes the interest they pay on loans from the
Company, thereby increasing the foreign tax liability of the subsidiaries. It is also possible that foreign countries could increase
their withholding taxes on dividends and interest. Given the unpredictability of these possible changes and their potential
interdependency, it is very difficult to assess the overall effect of such potential tax changes on our earnings and cash flow, but such
changes could adversely impact our financial results.
Internet Access to Our SEC Filings
Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those
reports, as well as our proxy statements and other materials that are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”) are made available, free of charge, on the Internet at www.welltower.com/investors, as soon as reasonably
practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. We routinely post important information on our website at
www.welltower.com in the “Investors” section, including corporate and investor presentations and financial information.  We
intend to use our website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure
obligations under Regulation FD. Such disclosures will be included on our website under the heading “Investors.”  Accordingly,
investors should monitor such portion of our website in addition to following our press releases, public conference calls, and filings
with the SEC.  The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web
address is included as an inactive textual reference only.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference contain statements that constitute “forward-
looking statements,” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When we use words such as
“may,” “will,” “intend,” “should,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,” “estimate” or similar expressions that do not relate
solely to historical matters, we are making forward-looking statements. In particular, these forward-looking statements include, but
are not limited to, those relating to our opportunities to acquire, develop or sell properties; our ability to close our anticipated
acquisitions, investments or dispositions on currently anticipated terms, or within currently anticipated timeframes; the expected
performance of our operators/tenants and properties; our expected occupancy rates; our ability to declare and to make distributions
to stockholders; our investment and financing opportunities and plans; our continued qualification as a REIT; and our ability to
access capital markets or other sources of funds. 
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our
actual results to differ materially from our expectations discussed in the forward-looking statements. This may be a result of various
factors, including, but not limited to:
•the status of the economy;
•the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital;
24
•issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies,
responding to government investigations and punitive settlements and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in cost-effectively
obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance;
•changes in financing terms;
•competition within the health care and seniors housing industries;
•negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to,
their ability to pay rent and repay loans;
•our ability to transition or sell properties with profitable results;
•the failure to make new investments or acquisitions as and when anticipated;
•natural disasters and other acts of God affecting our properties;
•our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur;
•our ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold;
•operator/tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies;
•the cooperation of joint venture partners;
•government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements;
•liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants;
•unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future investments or acquisitions;
•environmental laws affecting our properties;
•changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting;
•the movement of U.S. and foreign currency exchange rates;
•our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT;
•key management personnel recruitment and retention; and
•the risks described under “Item 1A — Risk Factors.”
We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information,
future events, or otherwise.
Item 1A. Risk Factors
This section discusses the most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial condition. It does not describe
all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our industry or ownership of our securities. If any of the following risks, as well as other
risks and uncertainties that are not addressed in this section or that we have not yet identified, actually occur, we could be
materially adversely affected and the value of our securities could decline. We group these risk factors into three categories:
•Risks arising from our business;
•Risks arising from our capital structure; and
•Risks arising from our status as a REIT. 
Risks Arising from Our Business
Our investments in and acquisitions of health care and seniors housing properties may be unsuccessful or fail to meet our
expectations 
We are exposed to the risk that some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. We could encounter unanticipated
difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might
require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. If we agree to provide
construction funding to an operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the
project. Such expenditures may negatively affect our results of operations. Investments in and acquisitions of seniors housing and
health care properties entail risks associated with real estate investments generally, including risks that the investment will not
achieve expected returns, that the cost estimates for necessary property improvements will prove inaccurate or that the tenant,
operator or manager will fail to meet performance expectations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our anticipated
acquisitions and investments, the completion of which is subject to various conditions, will be consummated in accordance with
25
anticipated timing, on anticipated terms, or at all. Health care properties are often highly customizable and the development or
redevelopment of such properties may require costly tenant-specific improvements. We also may be unable to quickly and
efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and this
could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will
achieve the economic benefit we expect from acquisitions, investment, development and redevelopment opportunities. All of the
foregoing could affect our ability to continue paying dividends at the current rate. 
Our investments in joint ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of exclusive control over these investments, our
partners’ insolvency or failure to meet their obligations, and disputes between us and our partners 
We have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, partnerships or joint ventures with other persons or entities.
Joint venture investments involve risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including the possibility that our
partner might become insolvent, refuse to make capital contributions when due or otherwise fail to meet its obligations, which may
result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; that our partner might at any time have economic or other
business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our interests or goals; that we could become engaged in a dispute
with our partner, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such dispute and could have an adverse impact
on the operations and profitability of the joint venture; and that our partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent
contrary to our instructions or requests. In addition, our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be
restricted. In some instances, we and/or our partner may have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to
sell our interest, or acquire our partner’s interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. Our
ability to acquire our partner’s interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other
capital resources. In such event, we may be forced to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain
it. Joint ventures may require us to share decision-making authority with our partners, which could limit our ability to control the
properties in the joint ventures. Even when we have a controlling interest, certain major decisions may require partner approval,
such as the sale, acquisition or financing of a property. 
We are exposed to operational risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that could adversely affect our
revenue and operations
We are exposed to various operational risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that may increase our costs
or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. These risks include fluctuations in occupancy, Medicare and Medicaid
reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates; economic conditions; competition; federal, state, local, and industry-regulated
licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards; the availability and increases in cost of general and
professional liability insurance coverage; state regulation and rights of residents related to entrance fees; and the availability and
increases in the cost of labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise). Any one or a combination of these factors may adversely
affect our revenue and operations.
Decreases in our operators’ revenues or increases in our operators’ expenses could affect our operators’ ability to make
payments to us
Our operators’ revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, private pay rates, and Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, if
applicable. Expenses for these facilities are primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt
service. Revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and
state budget shortfalls. Operating costs continue to increase for our operators. To the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or
any increase in operating expenses result in a property not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our
operator and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. To the extent the value of such property is reduced, we may
need to record an impairment for such asset. Furthermore, if we determine to dispose of an underperforming property, such sale
may result in a loss. Any such impairment or loss on sale would negatively affect our financial results.  All of the foregoing could
affect our ability to continue paying dividends at the current rate. 
Increased competition and oversupply may affect our operators’ ability to meet their obligations to us 
The operators of our properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators of properties and other health care providers
that provide comparable services for residents and patients, including on the basis of the scope and quality of care and services
provided, reputation and financial condition, physical appearance of the properties, price, and location. Our operators are expected
to encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses.  In
addition, we expect that there will continue to be a more than adequate inventory of seniors housing facilities. We cannot be certain
that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet
all of their obligations to us.  If our operators cannot compete effectively or if there is an oversupply of facilities, their financial
performance and ability to meet their obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 
A severe cold and flu season, epidemics or any other widespread illnesses could adversely affect the occupancy of our seniors
housing operating and triple-net properties
26
Our revenues and our operators’ revenues are dependent on occupancy. It is impossible to predict the severity of the cold and flu
season or the occurrence of epidemics or any other widespread illnesses. The occupancy of our seniors housing operating and
triple-net properties could significantly decrease in the event of a severe cold and flu season, an epidemic or any other widespread
illness.  Such a decrease could affect the operating income of our seniors housing operating properties and the ability of our triple-
net operators to make payments to us. In addition, a flu pandemic could significantly increase the cost burdens faced by our
operators, including if they are required to implement quarantines for residents, and adversely affect their ability to meet their
obligations to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 
The insolvency or bankruptcy of our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other obligors may adversely affect our
business, results of operations and financial condition 
We are exposed to the risk that our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers or other obligors may not be able to meet the rent,
principal and interest or other payments due us, which may result in a tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor
bankruptcy or insolvency, or that a tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or
insolvency proceedings for other reasons. Although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a tenant,
demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding
obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies,
the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. A tenant,
operator, borrower, manager or other obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency proceedings may be able to limit or delay our
ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise
other rights and remedies. In addition, if a lease is rejected in a tenant bankruptcy, our claim against the tenant may be limited by
applicable provisions of the bankruptcy law. We may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance)
to preserve the value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a property to a new
tenant. In some instances, we have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. In some of those
situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new obligor. If we cannot transition a
leased property to a new tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities.
Should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected. All of the foregoing could affect our
ability to continue paying dividends at the current rate. 
We may not be able to timely reinvest our sale proceeds on terms acceptable to us 
From time to time, we will have cash available from the proceeds of sales of our securities, principal payments on our loans
receivable or the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support
arrangements. In order to maintain current revenues and continue generating attractive returns, we expect to re-invest these
proceeds in a timely manner. We compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors, including other
health care REITs, real estate partnerships, health care providers, health care lenders and other investors, including developers,
banks, insurance companies, pension funds, government-sponsored entities and private equity firms, some of whom may have
greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we do. This competition for attractive investments may negatively affect
our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. 
The properties managed by Sunrise Senior Living, LLC (“Sunrise”) account for a significant portion of our revenues and net
operating income and any adverse developments in its business or financial condition could adversely affect us 
As of December 31, 2018, Sunrise managed 161 of our seniors housing operating properties.  These properties account for a
significant portion of our revenues, and we rely on Sunrise to manage these properties efficiently and effectively. We also rely on
Sunrise to set appropriate resident fees, to provide accurate property-level financial results for our properties in a timely manner
and to otherwise operate them in compliance with the terms of our management agreements and all applicable laws and
regulations.  Any adverse developments in Sunrise’s business or financial condition could impair its ability to manage our
properties efficiently and effectively, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Also,
if Sunrise experiences any significant financial, legal, accounting or regulatory difficulties, such difficulties could result in, among
other things, acceleration of its indebtedness, impairment of its continued access to capital or the commencement of insolvency
proceedings by or against it under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of
operations and financial condition. See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. 
We depend on Genesis HealthCare (“Genesis”), Brookdale Senior Living (“Brookdale”) and ProMedica Health System
("ProMedica") for a significant portion of our revenues and any failure, inability or unwillingness by them to satisfy
obligations under their agreements with us could adversely affect us 
The properties we lease to Genesis, Brookdale and ProMedica account for a significant portion of our revenues, and because
these leases are triple-net leases, we also depend on Genesis, Brookdale and ProMedica to pay all insurance, taxes, utilities and
maintenance and repair expenses in connection with the leased properties. We cannot assure you that Genesis, Brookdale and
ProMedica will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable them to make rental payments to us or to otherwise
satisfy their respective obligations under our leases, and any failure, inability or unwillingness by Genesis, Brookdale or ProMedica
27
to do so could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Genesis, Brookdale and
ProMedica have also agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities
arising in connection with their respective businesses, and we cannot assure you that Genesis, Brookdale and ProMedica will have
sufficient assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to enable them to satisfy their respective indemnification
obligations.  Genesis, Brookdale and ProMedica's failure to effectively conduct their operations or to maintain and improve our
properties could adversely affect their business reputations and their ability to attract and retain patients and residents in our
properties, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we have
made real estate and other loans to Genesis and their operational or other failures could adversely impact their ability to repay these
loans when due.
Ownership of property outside the U.S. may subject us to different or greater risks than those associated with our domestic
operations 
We have operations in Canada and the U.K. which represent 10.0% and 9.6% of total Welltower revenues, respectively. As of
December 31, 2018, Revera managed 98 of our seniors housing operating properties in Canada, representing a significant portion
of our revenues, and also owned a controlling interest in Sunrise. International development, ownership, and operating activities
involve risks that are different from those we face with respect to our domestic properties and operations. These risks include, but
are not limited to, any international currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates may not qualify under the
75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a
REIT; challenges with respect to the repatriation of foreign earnings and cash; changes in foreign political, regulatory, and
economic conditions (regionally, nationally and locally) including, but not limited to, continuing uncertainty surrounding the
process of Brexit and the macroeconomic and regulatory effects of Brexit, including impacts on the U.K. real estate market;
challenges in managing international operations; challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations,
including those relating to real estate, corporate governance, operations, taxes, employment and other civil and criminal legal
proceedings; foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in countries; differences in lending practices and the
willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide financing; regional or country-specific business cycles and political and
economic instability; and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations in the U.S. that affect foreign operations,
including, but not limited to, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. If we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated
with international expansion and operations, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 
If our tenants do not renew their existing leases, or if we are required to sell properties for liquidity reasons, we may be unable
to lease or sell the properties on favorable terms, or at all
We cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times. If
these leases are not renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties or sell them. There can be no
assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable
to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all. 
Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and most of the property we own is highly customized for specific uses. Our ability
to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in operator, economic and other conditions will be limited.
No assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell. Our inability to respond
rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In
addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and
health care industries. A downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell
properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us.  All of the foregoing could affect our ability to continue paying dividends at the
current rate. 
Our tenants, operators and managers may not have the necessary insurance coverage to insure adequately against losses 
We maintain or require our tenants, operators and managers to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties and
their operations with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are customary for similarly-situated companies in our
industry, and we frequently review our insurance programs and requirements. That said, we cannot assure you that we or our
tenants, operators or managers will continue to be able to maintain adequate levels of insurance and required coverages or that we
will continue to require the same levels of insurance coverage under our lease, management and other agreements, which could
adversely affect us in the event of a significant uninsured loss. Also, in recent years, long-term/post-acute care and seniors housing
operators and managers have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims. As a
result, general and professional liability costs have increased in some markets. General and professional liability insurance
coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the tenants’, operators’ and managers’ future operations, cash
flows and financial condition, and may have a material adverse effect on the tenants’, operators’ and managers’ ability to meet their
obligations to us. 
Our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the
ground leases 
28
We have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is
located, and we may acquire additional properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. As the lessee
under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier
breach of the ground lease by us. 
The requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid or government
funding, could have a material adverse effect on our obligors’ liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which
could adversely affect our obligors’ ability to meet their obligations to us 
Some of our obligors’ businesses are affected by government reimbursement. To the extent that an operator/tenant receives a
significant portion of its revenues from government payors, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, such revenues may be subject to
statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, court decisions,
administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers, government funding
restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities), any lapse in Congressional funding of the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing government investigations and audits at such
property. In recent years, government payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures.
Health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. We cannot make any
assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the financial condition of our obligors and
properties. There can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services provided by any property
operator, whether the property receives reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid or private payors. Significant limits on the scope
of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on an obligor’s liquidity, financial
condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor to meet its obligations to us. 
The Health Reform Laws, provide those states that expand their Medicaid coverage to otherwise eligible state residents with
incomes at or below 138% of the federal poverty level with an increased federal medical assistance percentage, effective January 1,
2014, when certain conditions are met. Given that the federal government substantially funds the Medicaid expansion, it is unclear
how many states will ultimately pursue this option, although, as of early February 2018, more than 60% of the states have expanded
Medicaid coverage. The participation by states in the Medicaid expansion could have the dual effect of increasing our tenants’
revenues, through new patients, but further straining state budgets and their ability to pay our tenants. We expect that the current
Presidential Administration and U.S. Congress will seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the
Health Reform Laws, including Medicaid expansion. Since taking office, President Trump has continued to support the repeal of all
or portions of the Health Reform Laws.  See “Item 1 — Business — Certain Government Regulations — United States —
Reimbursement” above for additional information. If the operations, cash flows or financial condition of our operators and tenants
are materially adversely impacted by the Health Reform Laws or future legislation, our revenue and operations may be adversely
affected as well. More generally, and because of the dynamic nature of the legislative and regulatory environment for health care
products and services, and in light of existing federal deficit and budgetary concerns, we cannot predict the impact that broad-
based, far-reaching legislative or regulatory changes could have on the U.S. economy, our business, or that of our operators and
tenants. 
Our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with federal, state, province, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification
and inspection laws, regulations, and standards could adversely affect such operators’ or tenants’ operations, which could
adversely affect our operators’ and tenants’ ability to meet their obligations to us 
Our operators and tenants generally are subject to varying levels of federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure,
certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards. Our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with any of these laws,
regulations, or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension,
decertification or exclusion from federal and state health care programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. Such actions may
have an effect on our operators’ or tenants’ ability to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. See “Item 1 —
Business — Certain Government Regulations — United States — Fraud & Abuse Enforcement” above. 
Many of our properties may require a license, registration, and/or CON to operate. Failure to obtain a license, registration, or
CON, or loss of a required license, registration, or CON would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the
operators or tenants. These events could materially adversely affect our operators’ or tenants’ ability to make rent or other
obligatory payments to us. State and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or
acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction or renovation of health care facilities, by requiring a CON or other similar
approval from a state agency. See “Item 1 — Business — Certain Government Regulations — United States — Licensing and
Certification” above. 
The real estate market and our business may be negatively impacted by changes to U.S. tax laws 
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Act") enacted in December 2017 significantly changes the U.S. income tax rules for individuals
and corporations. Although the Tax Act involves comprehensive changes to the system of corporate income tax, it does not
substantively change the manner in which REITs are taxed. Although numerous provisions of the Tax Act do affect REITs, we are
29
generally not subject to federal taxes applicable to regular corporations if we comply with the tax law governing REIT status and
distribute annually an amount at least equal to our taxable income. Nonetheless, the Tax Act makes numerous changes to the
individual income tax rules that may affect the real estate market in the U.S., including limitations on the deductibility of state and
local property taxes and interest. Although the impact of these changes is likely to be most significant in the residential real estate
market, rather than in the sectors where we operate, the effects of these changes on the broader real estate market in the geographic
areas in which we operate and on our tenants remain uncertain. 
Changes in applicable tax regulations could negatively affect our financial results 
We are subject to taxation in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions.  Because, even with the passage of the Tax Act, the
U.S. maintains a worldwide corporate tax system, the foreign and U.S. tax systems are somewhat interdependent. Longstanding
international norms that determine each country’s jurisdiction to tax cross-border international trade are evolving and could reduce
the ability of our foreign subsidiaries to deduct for foreign tax purposes the interest they pay on loans from us, thereby, increasing
the foreign tax liability of the subsidiaries; it is also possible that foreign countries could increase their withholding taxes on
dividends and interest. Given the unpredictability of these possible changes and their potential interdependency, it is very difficult
to assess the overall effect of such potential tax changes on our earnings and cash flow, but such changes could adversely impact
our financial results.
Unfavorable resolution of pending and future litigation matters and disputes could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition
From time to time, we may be directly involved in a number of legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. We may also be
named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our actions or the actions of our operators/tenants or managers in which
such operators/tenants or managers have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims,
litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses. An unfavorable resolution of pending or future
litigation or legal proceedings may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
Regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of
management. There can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, pending or future
litigation. In addition, pending litigation or future litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead to
increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations.
Development, redevelopment and construction risks could affect our profitability
At any given time, we may be in the process of constructing one or more new facilities that ultimately will require a CON and
license before they can be utilized by the operator for their intended use. The operator also may need to obtain Medicare and
Medicaid certification and enter into Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements and/or third party payor contracts. In the event
that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary CON, licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts after the
completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator
obtains a license or certification to operate the new facility and the necessary provider agreements or contracts or we find and
contract with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its intended use and the necessary provider
agreements or contracts. 
In connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain,
or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and
authorizations. These factors could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects. In addition, we may not be able
to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities, and we may not be
able to complete construction and lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or
construction costs. Additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that
we may have to wait years for significant cash returns. Because we are required to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if
the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund such
distributions. Newly developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect
our overall financial performance. 
In deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance
of that property. In particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected occupancy, rental rates and capital costs.
If our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate as a result of increases in capital costs or other factors, the
property may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. Our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping
an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals. Additionally, we
may acquire new properties that are not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the
operating expenses and debt service associated with that property. 
We may experience losses caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters, which could result in an increase of our or
our tenants’ cost of insurance, a decrease in our anticipated revenues or a significant loss of the capital we have invested in a
property 
30
We maintain or require our tenants to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions,
limits and deductibles that we believe are appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage, and we frequently review
our insurance programs and requirements. However, a large number of our properties are located in areas particularly susceptible to
revenue loss, cost increase or damage caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes,
tornadoes and floods. We believe, given current industry practice and analysis prepared by outside consultants, that our and our
tenants’ insurance coverage is appropriate to cover reasonably anticipated losses that may be caused by hurricanes, earthquakes,
tornadoes, floods and other severe weather conditions and natural disasters, including the effects of climate change. Nevertheless,
we are always subject to the risk that such insurance will not fully cover all losses and, depending on the severity of the event and
the impact on our properties, such insurance may not cover a significant portion of the losses. These losses may lead to an increase
of our and our tenants’ cost of insurance, a decrease in our anticipated revenues from an affected property and a loss of all or a
portion of the capital we have invested in an affected property.  In addition, we or our tenants may not purchase insurance under
certain circumstances if the cost of insurance exceeds, in our or our tenants’ judgment, the value of the coverage relative to the risk
of loss. 
We may incur costs to remediate environmental contamination at our properties, which could have an adverse effect on our or
our obligors’ business or financial condition
Under various laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release of hazardous
substances on the property and may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental
contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. We may become liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it
incurs in connection with the contamination. Generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the person’s relationship to the
property. Our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property. Moreover, we review environmental
site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. Those assessments are designed to
meet the “all appropriate inquiry” standard, which we believe qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental
liabilities arise. Based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material environmental
contamination. However, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate
contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition or the business or financial
condition of our obligors. 
Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business and result in the loss of confidential information
Our business is at risk from and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to our
confidential data, and other electronic security breaches, including those resulting from human error, product defects and
technology failures. Such cyber-attacks can range from individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information
technology systems to more sophisticated security threats. While we employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate
these threats, there is no guarantee such efforts will be successful in preventing a cyber-attack. In the past, we have experienced
cybersecurity breaches, which to date have not had a material impact on our operations; however, there is no assurance that such
impacts will not be material in the future. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business, damage our reputation, cause us to
incur significant remediation expense and have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations. Cybersecurity breaches that compromise proprietary, personal identifying or confidential information of our employees,
operators, tenants and partners could result in legal claims or proceedings, including under data privacy regulations.
Our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed 
Our success depends on the continued availability and service of key personnel, including our executive officers and other highly
qualified employees, and competition for their talents is intense. We cannot assure you that we will retain our key personnel or that
we will be able to recruit and retain other highly qualified employees in the future. Losing any key personnel could, at least
temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. 
Risks Arising from Our Capital Structure 
Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions 
Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (restrictions on share ownership and transfer and
super majority stockholder approval requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for or even prevent a
third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent Board of Directors. Provisions and agreements that inhibit or
discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. 
We may become more leveraged 
Permanent financing for our investments is typically provided through a combination of public offerings of debt and equity
securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt. The incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become
more leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make
31
us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing, or (4) negatively affect our
credit ratings or outlook by one or more of the rating agencies. 
Cash available for distributions to stockholders may be insufficient to make dividend contributions at expected levels and are
made at the discretion of the Board of Directors 
If cash available for distribution generated by our assets decreases due to dispositions or otherwise, we may be unable to make
dividend distributions at expected levels. Our inability to make expected distributions would likely result in a decrease in the
market price of our common stock. All distributions are made at the discretion of our Board of Directors in accordance with
Delaware law and depend on our earnings, our financial condition, debt and equity capital available to us, our expectation of our
future capital requirements and operating performance, restrictive covenants in our financial and other contractual arrangements,
maintenance of our REIT qualification, restrictions under Delaware law and other factors as our Board of Directors may deem
relevant from time to time. Additionally, our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described
herein, or other significant adverse events, occur. 
We are subject to covenants in our debt agreements that could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of
operations and financial condition
Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Among other things, these provisions require
us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create
liens and make investments or acquisitions. Breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing
the applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments. These defaults could
have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
Limitations on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to make future investments or to meet our
obligations and commitments
We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to meet our obligations and
commitments as they mature. Our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control,
including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions; the market’s perception of our growth potential and
our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; the market price of the shares of our capital stock and the credit
ratings of our debt securities; the financial stability of our lenders, which might impair their ability to meet their commitments to us
or their willingness to make additional loans to us; changes in the credit ratings on U.S. government debt securities; or default or
delay in payment by the U.S. of its obligations. If our access to capital is limited by these factors or other factors, it could
negatively impact our ability to acquire properties, repay or refinance our indebtedness, fund operations or make distributions to
our stockholders.
Downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital
We plan to manage the company to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there can be no assurance
that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating
agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse
impact on our results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition.
Increases in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on our cost of capital
An increase in interest rates may increase interest cost on new and existing variable rate debt.  Such increases in the cost of
capital could adversely impact our ability to finance operations, the acquisition and development of properties, and refinance
existing debt. Additionally, increased interest rates may also result in less liquid property markets, limiting our ability to sell
existing assets.
Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position
Currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial position, including exchange rate
fluctuations resulting from Brexit. We generate a portion of our revenue and expenses in such foreign currencies as the Canadian
dollar and the British pound sterling. Although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions and/or
obtain local currency mortgage debt in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, we cannot
assure you that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on us.
Our entry into hedge agreements may not effectively reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign currency
exchange rates 
We enter into hedge agreements from time to time to manage some of our exposure to interest rate and foreign currency
exchange rate volatility. These agreements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations
under these arrangements. In addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates
or foreign
32
currency exchange rates. When we use forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a risk that we will not complete the long-term
borrowing against which the swap is intended to hedge. If such events occur, our results of operations may be adversely affected. 
Risks Arising from Our Status as a REIT 
We might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT 
We intend to operate as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), and believe we have and
will continue to operate in such a manner. If we lose our status as a REIT, we will face serious income tax consequences that will
substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our stockholders because:
•we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject
to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates;
•we could be subject to possibly increased state and local taxes; and
•unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four
taxable    years following the year during which we were disqualified. 
Since REIT qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them,
and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of U.S. federal and other income taxes owed. A reduction in our earnings
would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. If we do not qualify as a REIT, we would not be required to make
distributions to stockholders since a non-REIT is not required to pay dividends to stockholders in order to maintain REIT status or
avoid an excise tax. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, all distributions to stockholders would continue to be treated as
dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the
dividends received deduction, and individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally applicable to long-term
capital gains (currently at a maximum rate of 20%) with respect to distributions. 
As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy
and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and
complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various
factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a REIT. Although we
believe that we qualify as a REIT, we cannot assure you that we will remain qualified as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax
purposes. 
Certain subsidiaries might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT
We own interests in a number of entities which have elected to be taxed as REITs for U.S. federal income tax purposes, some of
which we consolidate for financial reporting purposes but each of which is treated as a separate REIT for federal income tax
purposes (each a “Subsidiary REIT”). To qualify as a REIT, each Subsidiary REIT must independently satisfy all of the REIT
qualification requirements under the Code, together with all other rules applicable to REITs. Provided that each Subsidiary REIT
qualifies as a REIT, our interests in the Subsidiary REITs will be treated as qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the REIT
asset tests. If a Subsidiary REIT fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, such Subsidiary REIT will be subject to federal and
state income taxes and may not be able to qualify as a REIT for the four subsequent taxable years. Any such failure could have an
adverse effect on our ability to comply with the REIT income and asset tests, and thus our ability to qualify as a REIT, unless we
are able to avail ourselves of certain relief provisions. 
The 90% annual distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial
transactions 
To comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to REITs and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make
distributions to our stockholders. Although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to
satisfy the REIT distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid
assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement, or we may decide to retain cash or distribute such greater amount as may be
necessary to avoid income and excise taxation. This may be due to timing differences between the actual receipt of income and
actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in
arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. In addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or
repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to
enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. In the event that timing differences occur, or we deem it appropriate to retain
cash, we may borrow funds, issue additional equity securities (although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay
taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in other transactions intended to enable us to
meet the REIT distribution requirements. This may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations. 
The lease of qualified health care properties to a taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to special requirements
33
We lease certain qualified health care properties to taxable REIT subsidiaries (or limited liability companies of which the taxable
REIT subsidiaries are members), which lessees contract with managers (or related parties) to manage the health care operations at
these properties. The rents from this taxable REIT subsidiary lessee structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property if (1)
they are paid pursuant to an arms-length lease of a qualified health care property with a taxable REIT subsidiary and (2) the
manager qualifies as an eligible independent contractor (as defined in the Code). If any of these conditions are not satisfied, then
the rents will not be qualifying rents. 
If certain sale-leaseback transactions are not characterized by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) as “true leases,” we may be
subject to adverse tax consequences 
We have purchased certain properties and leased them back to the sellers of such properties, and we may enter into similar
transactions in the future. We intend for any such sale-leaseback transaction to be structured in such a manner that the lease will be
characterized as a “true lease,” thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
However, depending on the terms of any specific transaction, the IRS might take the position that the transaction is not a “true
lease” but is more properly treated in some other manner. In the event any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and successfully
re-characterized by the IRS, we would not be entitled to claim the deductions for depreciation and cost recovery generally available
to an owner of property. Furthermore, if a sale-leaseback transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT
asset tests or income tests and, consequently, could lose our REIT status effective with the year of re-characterization. Alternatively,
the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated, which may cause us to fail to meet the REIT annual distribution
requirements for a taxable year. 
We could be subject to changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, or exposure to
additional tax liabilities 
We are subject to taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions.  Our analysis of the Tax Act may be impacted by any corrective
legislation and any guidance provided by the U.S. Treasury and the IRS.  Our effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the
mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or
changes in tax laws or their interpretation.  We are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the
IRS and other tax authorities and governmental bodies.  We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from
these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes.  There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these
examinations.  If we were subject to review or examination by the IRS or applicable foreign jurisdiction as the result of any new tax
law changes (including the recently enacted Tax Act) the ultimate determination of which may change our taxes owed for an
amount in excess of amounts previously accrued or recorded, our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be
adversely affected.
Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments
None.
34
Item 2.  Properties 
We lease our corporate headquarters located at 4500 Dorr Street, Toledo, Ohio 43615. We also lease corporate offices throughout
the U.S., Canada, the United Kingdom and Luxembourg and have ground leases relating to certain of our properties. The following
table sets forth certain information regarding the properties that comprise our consolidated real property and real estate loan
investments as of December 31, 2018 (dollars in thousands):
 Seniors Housing Operating  Triple-net Outpatient Medical
Property LocationNumber of
PropertiesTotal
InvestmentAnnualized
Revenues (1) Number of
PropertiesTotal
InvestmentAnnualized
Revenues (1)Number of
PropertiesTotal
InvestmentAnnualized
Revenues (1)
Alaska — $ — $ — — $ — $ — 2$ 28,820 $ 3,628
Alabama — — — 4 33,434 3,356 7 80,968 7,782
Arkansas — — — — — — 1 22,949 2,228
Arizona 3 52,715 20,712  3 34,957 2,192 4 61,618 8,539
California 84 2,762,952 715,203  16 390,915 40,140 34 877,181 89,356
Colorado 4 114,217 32,053  13 331,738 29,536 2 31,643 5,947
Connecticut 18 443,781 148,458  13 145,985 16,087 1 41,820 4,746
District Of
Columbia 1 61,763 14,680  — — — — — —
Delaware 4 85,736 28,372  6 101,096 16,269 — 19,687 340
Florida 11 820,940 138,385  51 580,495 54,033 38 465,835 54,695
Geor gia 6 110,534 29,961  6 59,190 6,874 10 164,21 1 27,547
Iowa 1 31,059 11,937  10 105,633 10,551 1 6,435 1,438
Idaho — — — 1 4,096 1,098 — — —
Illinois 14 428,803 113,909  27 399,815 35,118 7 106,276 10,514
Indiana — — — 30 385,372 41,623 9 156,095 19,261
Kansas 2 29,458 10,668  28 300,665 28,286 5 61,037 13,562
Kentucky 2 37,556 14,754  7 59,124 13,121 1 6,872 797
Louisiana 2 48,893 11,173  3 18,177 2,717 — — —
Massachusetts 40 1,103,287 261,207  18 152,967 13,766 — — —
Maryland 6 250,315 74,605  24 306,394 17,290 6 175,587 18,271
Maine 2 48,130 19,155  — — — 1 18,293 2,404
Michigan 5 105,899 23,987  24 281,423 30,649 2 29,874 6,221
Minnesota 4 108,830 21,491  10 218,152 18,909 8 159,033 30,553
Missouri 5 142,202 23,278  1 12,376 968 8 137,216 19,352
Mississippi — — — 3 25,835 1,057 — — —
Montana 1 5,710 4,302  1 6,281 752 — — —
North
Carolina 2 119,188 20,243  50 362,777 60,081 11 103,708 8,906
Nebraska — — — 4 30,897 4,067 2 32,719 5,310
New
Hampshire 4 114,495 32,51 1 4 49,700 4,136 1 12,705 1,770
New Jersey 26 693,703 201,450  46 815,490 60,776 9 268,927 43,281
New Mexico 1 17,772 1,793  — — — 3 30,344 3,796
Nevada 2 35,225 11,279  3 32,315 4,309 5 42,113 3,263
New York 12 428,241 111,700  4 42,201 5,795 9 162,066 10,114
Ohio 6 299,653 41,009  42 363,009 34,429 5 49,245 8,985
Oklahoma 2 38,951 2,576  21 208,973 20,907 2 22,695 3,591
Oregon — — — 1 2,914 804 1 9,330 1,562
Pennsylvania 9 155,558 61,400  77 1,012,532 99,319 1 35,687 1,386
Rhode Island 3 59,381 20,945  — — — — — —
South
Carolina 2 7,101 10,190  8 49,243 4,889 1 23,837 2,364
Tennessee 2 48,089 15,482  4 38,684 4,536 6 62,239 10,622
Texas 28 820,461 192,066  41 483,016 55,358 62 973,590 101,286
Utah 2 20,765 12,356  2 26,538 2,775 — — —
Virginia 5 243,676 60,168  28 299,224 34,530 4 58,476 6,337
Vermont 1 25,536 7,160  — — — — — —
Washington 14 474,394 90,927  14 195,075 21,038 9 225,029 23,975
Wisconsin — — — 7 105,832 11,694 2 29,513 2,197
West Virginia — — — 4 65,116 8,866 — — —
Total
domestic 336 10,394,969 2,611,545  659 8,137,656 822,701 280 4,793,673 565,926
Canada 110 2,101,067 451,347  6 143,362 9,944 — — —
United
Kingdom 54 1,475,141 321,623  61 1,111,086 113,498 4 263,815 24,742
Total
international 164 3,576,208 772,970  67 1,254,448 123,442 4 263,815 24,742
Grand total 500 $13,971,177 $ 3,384,515  726 $ 9,392,104 $ 946,143 284 $ 5,057,488 $ 590,668
(1) Represents revenue for the month ended December 31, 2018 annualized.
35
The following table sets forth occupancy, coverages and average annualized revenues for certain property types (excluding
investments in unconsolidated entities):
  Occupancy(1)  Coverages(1,2) Average Annualized Revenues(3)  
  2018 2017  2018  2017 2018 2017   
Seniors Housing Operating(4)  87.5% 86.5%  n/a  n/a $ 60,635 $ 60,828 per unit
Triple-net(5)  84.9% 85.8%  1.39x  1.34x  12,831 15,663 per bed/unit
Outpatient Medical(6)  93.1% 93.7%  n/a  n/a 34 33 per sq. ft.
(1) We use unaudited, periodic financial information provided solely by tenants/borrowers to calculate occupancy and coverages for properties other than outpatient
medical buildings and have not independently verified the information.
(2) Represents the ratio of our triple-net customers' earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, rent and management fees to contractual rent or
interest due us. Data reflects the twelve months ended September 30 for the periods presented.
(3) Represents annualized revenues divided by total beds, units or square feet as presented in the tables above.
(4) Occupancy represents average occupancy for the three months ended December 31.
(5) Occupancy represents average quarterly operating occupancy based on the quarters ended September 30 and excludes properties that are unstabilized, closed or
for which data is not available or meaningful.
(6) Occupancy represents the percentage of total rentable square feet leased and occupied (including month-to-month and holdover leases and excluding
terminations) as of December 31.
The following table sets forth information regarding lease expirations for certain portions of our portfolio as of December 31,
2018 (dollars in thousands):
  Expiration Year(1)
  2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 Thereafter
Triple-net:                     
Properties 67 — 8 12 — 4 55 95 19 33 410
Base
rent(2) $58,718 $ — $13,691 $ 8,272 $ — $11,096 $62,108 $123,694 $35,006 $49,075 $452,444
% of base
rent  7.2% —% 1.7% 1.0% —% 1.4% 7.6% 15.2% 4.3% 6.0% 55.6%
Units 8,401 — 1,416 1,245 — 692 4,140 7,717 2,401 2,840 43,019
% of
units  11.7% —% 2.0% 1.7% —% 1.0% 5.8% 10.7% 3.3% 4.0% 59.9%
Outpatient Medical:                    
Square
feet  1,232,245 1,346,567 1,630,750 1,769,937 1,398,798 1,404,470 834,530 1,327,844 579,397 763,969 4,660,901
Base
rent(2) $34,810 $38,060 $45,882 $47,951 $38,075 $41,464 $22,411 $ 33,712 $14,550 $20,441 $95,301
% of base
rent  8.0% 8.8% 10.6% 11.1% 8.8% 9.6% 5.2% 7.8% 3.4% 4.7% 22.0%
Leases 350 332 323 313 312 181 134 154 86 88 171
% of
leases 14.3% 13.6% 13.2% 12.8% 12.8% 7.4% 5.5% 6.3% 3.5% 3.6% 7.0%
 
(1) Excludes investments in unconsolidated entities. Investments classified as held for sale are included in 2019.
(2) The most recent monthly cash base rent annualized. Base rent does not include tenant recoveries or amortization of above and below market lease intangibles or other non cash income.
Item 3.  Legal Proceedings
From time to time, there are various legal proceedings pending against us that arise in the ordinary course of our business. 
Management does not believe that the resolution of any of these legal proceedings either individually or in the aggregate will have
a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Further, from time to time, we are party to
certain legal proceedings for which third parties, such as tenants, operators and/or managers are contractually obligated to
indemnify, defend and hold us harmless. In some of these matters, the indemnitors have insurance for the potential damages.  In
other matters, we are being defended by tenants and other obligated third parties and these indemnitors may not have sufficient
insurance, assets, income or resources to satisfy their defense and indemnification obligations to us. The unfavorable resolution of
such legal proceedings could, individually or in the aggregate, materially adversely affect the indemnitors’ ability to satisfy their
respective obligations to us, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial
condition.  It is management’s opinion that there are currently no such legal proceedings pending that will, individually or in the
aggregate, have such a material adverse effect. Despite management’s view of the ultimate resolution of these legal proceedings,
we may have significant legal expenses and costs associated with the defense of such matters. Further, management cannot predict
the outcome of these legal proceedings and if management’s expectation regarding such matters is not correct, such proceedings
could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.
Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures
None.
36
PART II
Item 5.  Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:WELL). There were 3,668 stockholders of record as of
January 31, 2019.
Stockholder Return Performance Presentation 
Set forth below is a line graph comparing the yearly percentage change and the cumulative total stockholder return on our shares
of common stock against the cumulative total return of the S & P Composite-500 Stock Index and the FTSE NAREIT Equity
Index. As of December 31, 2018, 161 companies comprised the FTSE NAREIT Equity Index, which consists of REITs identified
by NAREIT as equity (those REITs which have at least 75% of their investments in real property). The data are based on the
closing prices as of December 31 for each of the five years. 2013 equals $100 and dividends are assumed to be reinvested.
  12/31/2013 12/31/2014 12/31/2015 12/31/2016 12/31/2017 12/31/2018
S & P 500  $ 100.00$ 113.69 $ 115.26 $ 129.05$ 157.22 $ 150.33
Welltower Inc.  100.00 148.51 140.01 144.73 145.02 167.21
FTSE NAREIT Equity  100.00 130.14 134.30 145.74 153.36 146.27
 
Except to the extent that we specifically incorporate this information by reference, the foregoing Stockholder Return
Performance Presentation shall not be deemed incorporated by reference by any general statement incorporating by reference this
Annual Report on Form 10-K into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended. This information shall not otherwise be deemed filed under such Acts.  
Issuer  Purchases of Equity Securities
PeriodTotal Number of
Shares Purchased(1) Average Price Paid
Per ShareTotal Number of Shares
Purchased as Part of Publicly
Announced Plans or
Programs(2)  Maximum Number of Shares
that May Yet Be Purchased
Under the Plans or Programs
October 1, 2018 through October 31, 2018 1,739 $ 62.01    
November 1, 2018 through November 30, 2018 416 69.17    
December 1, 2018 through December 31, 2018 — —    
Totals 2,155 $ 63.39    
(1) During the three months ended December 31, 2018, the company acquired shares of common stock held by employees who tendered owned shares to satisfy tax
withholding obligations.
(2) No shares were purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs.
37
Item 6.  Selected Financial Data
The following selected financial data for the five years ended December 31, 2018 are derived from our audited consolidated
financial statements (in thousands, except per share data):
  Year Ended December 31,
  2014 2015 2016  2017 2018
Operating Data        
Total revenues  $ 3,343,546 $ 3,859,826 $ 4,281,160 $ 4,316,641 $ 4,700,499
Total expenses  2,959,333 3,223,709 3,571,907 4,017,025 4,277,009
Income from continuing operations before income
taxes and other items  384,213 636,117 709,253 299,616 423,490
Income tax (expense) benefit  1,267 (6,451) 19,128 (20,128) (8,674)
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities  (27,426) (21,504) (10,357) (83,125) (641)
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net  147,111 280,387 364,046 344,250 415,575
Income from continuing operations  505,165 888,549 1,082,070 540,613 829,750
Income from discontinued operations, net  7,135 — — — —
Net income  512,300 888,549 1,082,070 540,613 829,750
Preferred stock dividends  65,408 65,406 65,406 49,410 46,704
Preferred stock redemption charge  — — — 9,769 —
Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling
interests  147 4,799 4,267 17,839 24,796
Net income attributable to common stockholders  $ 446,745 $ 818,344 $ 1,012,397 $ 463,595 $ 758,250
Other Data        
Average number of common shares outstanding:        
Basic  306,272 348,240 358,275 367,237 373,620
Diluted  307,747 349,424 360,227 369,001 375,250
Per Share Data        
Basic:        
Income from continuing operations  $ 1.65 $ 2.55 $ 3.02 $ 1.47 $ 2.22
Discontinued operations, net  $ 0.02 $ — $ — $ — $ —
Net income attributable to common
stockholders  $ 1.46 $ 2.35 $ 2.83 $ 1.26 $ 2.03
Diluted:        
Income from continuing operations  $ 1.64 $ 2.54 $ 3.00 $ 1.47 $ 2.21
Discontinued operations, net  $ 0.02 $ — $ — $ — $ —
Net income attributable to common
stockholders  $ 1.45 $ 2.34 $ 2.81 $ 1.26 $ 2.02
Cash distributions per common share  $ 3.18 $ 3.30 $ 3.44 $ 3.48 $ 3.48
  December 31,
Balance Sheet Data  2014 2015 2016  2017 2018
Net real estate investments  $ 22,851,196 $ 26,888,685 $ 26,563,629 $ 26,171,077 $ 28,420,769
Total assets  24,962,923 29,023,845 28,865,184 27,944,445 30,342,072
Total long-term obligations  10,776,640 12,967,686 12,358,245 11,731,936 13,297,144
Total liabilities  11,403,465 13,664,877 13,185,279 12,643,799 14,331,427
Total preferred stock  1,006,250 1,006,250 1,006,250 718,503 718,498
Total equity  13,473,049 15,175,885 15,281,472 14,925,452 15,586,599
38
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
  
Company Overview 40
Business Strategy 40
Key Transactions 41
Key Performance Indicators, Trends and Uncertainties 42
Corporate Governance 43
  
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
  
Sources and Uses of Cash 43
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 44
Contractual Obligations 44
Capital Structure 45
  
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  
Summary 46
Seniors Housing Operating 47
Triple-net 48
Outpatient Medical 50
Non-Segment/Corporate 52
  
OTHER
  
Non-GAAP Financial Measures 53
Critical Accounting Policies 57
 
39
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following discussion and analysis is based primarily on the consolidated financial statements of Welltower Inc. presented in
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) for the periods presented and should be read
together with the notes thereto contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other important factors are identified in “Item 1 —
Business” and “Item 1A — Risk Factors” above.
Executive Summary
Company Overview
Welltower Inc. (NYSE:WELL), an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health care
infrastructure. The company invests with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund the
real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery models and improve people’s wellness and overall health care
experience. Welltower™, a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), owns interests in properties concentrated in major, high-growth
markets in the United States (“U.S.”), Canada and the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), consisting of seniors housing and post-acute
communities and outpatient medical properties. Our capital programs, when combined with comprehensive planning, development
and property management services, make us a single-source solution for acquiring, planning, developing, managing, repositioning
and monetizing real estate assets.
The following table summarizes our consolidated portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2018 (dollars in thousands):
  Percentage of Number of
Type of Property NOI(1)NOI Properties
Seniors Housing Operating $ 985,022 43.5% 500
Triple-net 900,049 39.7% 726
Outpatient Medical 380,136 16.8% 284
Totals $ 2,265,207 100.0 % 1,510
(1) Represents consolidated NOI and excludes our share of investments in unconsolidated entities. Entities in which we have a joint venture with a minority partner
are shown at 100% of the joint venture amount. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information and reconciliation.
Business Strategy
Our primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder value. We seek to pay consistent cash
dividends to stockholders and create opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of annual increases in
net operating income and portfolio growth. To meet these objectives, we invest across the full spectrum of seniors housing and
health care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type, relationship and geographic location.
Substantially all of our revenues are derived from operating lease rentals, resident fees/services, and interest earned on
outstanding loans receivable. These items represent our primary sources of liquidity to fund distributions and depend upon the
continued ability of our obligors to make contractual rent and interest payments to us and the profitability of our operating
properties. To the extent that our obligors/partners experience operating difficulties and become unable to generate sufficient cash
to make payments or operating distributions to us, there could be a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of
operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. To mitigate this risk, we monitor our investments through a variety of methods
determined by the type of property. Our asset management process for seniors housing properties generally includes review of
monthly financial statements and other operating data for each property, review of obligor/partner creditworthiness, property
inspections, and review of covenant compliance relating to licensure, real estate taxes, letters of credit and other collateral. Our
internal property management division manages and monitors the outpatient medical portfolio with a comprehensive process
including review of tenant relations, lease expirations, the mix of health service providers, hospital/health system relationships,
property performance, capital improvement needs, and market conditions among other things. We evaluate the operating
environment in each property’s market to determine the likely trend in operating performance of the facility. When we identify
unacceptable trends, we seek to mitigate, eliminate or transfer the risk. Through these efforts, we generally aim to intervene at an
early stage to address any negative trends, and in so doing, support both the collectability of revenue and the value of our
investment.
In addition to our asset management and research efforts, we also aim to structure our relevant investments to mitigate payment
risk. Operating leases and loans are normally credit enhanced by guaranties and/or letters of credit. In addition, operating leases are
typically structured as master leases and loans are generally cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized with other real estate loans,
operating leases or agreements between us and the obligor and its affiliates.
For the year ended December 31, 2018, resident fees/services and rental income represented 69% and 29%, respectively, of total
revenues.  Substantially all of our operating leases are designed with escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental
escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental
income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due
for the period. Our yield on loans receivable depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest rate, the average
principal amount outstanding during the term of the loan, and any interest rate adjustments.
40
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Our primary sources of cash include resident fees/services, rent and interest receipts, borrowings under our primary unsecured
credit facility, public issuances of debt and equity securities, our commercial paper program, proceeds from investment dispositions
and principal payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of cash include dividend distributions, debt service payments
(including principal and interest), real property investments (including acquisitions, capital expenditures, construction advances and
transaction costs), loan advances, property operating expenses and general and administrative expenses. Depending upon the
availability and cost of external capital, we believe our liquidity is sufficient to fund these uses of cash.
We also continuously evaluate opportunities to finance future investments. New investments are generally funded from
temporary borrowings under our primary unsecured credit facility, internally generated cash and the proceeds from investment
dispositions. Our investments generate cash from net operating income. Permanent financing for future investments, which replaces
funds drawn under our primary unsecured credit facility, has historically been provided through a combination of the issuance of
public debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt.
Depending upon market conditions, we believe that new investments will be available in the future with spreads over our cost of
capital that will generate appropriate returns to our stockholders. It is also likely that investment dispositions may occur in the
future. To the extent that investment dispositions exceed new investments, our revenues and cash flows from operations could be
adversely affected. We expect to reinvest the proceeds from any investment dispositions in new investments. To the extent that new
investment requirements exceed our available cash on-hand, we expect to borrow under our primary unsecured credit facility. At
December 31, 2018, we had $215,376,000 of cash and cash equivalents, $100,753,000 of restricted cash and $1,853,000,000 of
available borrowing capacity under our primary unsecured credit facility.
Key Transactions
Capital  The following summarizes key capital transactions that occurred and supported new investments made during the year
ended December 31, 2018:
•In April 2018, we issued $550,000,000 of 4.25% senior unsecured notes due 2028 for net proceeds of approximately
$545,074,000.
•In connection with the QCP acquisition, in July 2018, we drew on a $1,000,000,000 term loan facility to fund a portion of
the cash consideration and other expenses.
•In August 2018, we issued $200,000,000 of 4.25% senior unsecured notes due 2028, $600,000,000 of 3.95% senior
unsecured notes due 2023 and $500,000,000 of 4.95% senior unsecured notes due 2048 for aggregate net proceeds of
approximately $1,283,226,000. Proceeds from these issuances were used to repay advances under the $1,000,000,000 term
loan facility drawn on in July 2018 and the primary unsecured credit facility.
•In July 2018, we closed on a new $3,700,000,000 unsecured credit facility with improved pricing across both our line of
credit and term loan facility and terminated the existing unsecured credit facility. The credit facility includes a
$3,000,000,000 revolving credit facility at a borrowing rate of 0.825% over LIBOR, a $500,000,000 USD unsecured term
credit facility at a borrowing rate of 0.90% over LIBOR and a $250,000,000 CAD unsecured term credit facility at 0.90%
over CDOR.
•We extinguished $306,553,000 of secured debt at a blended average interest rate of 5.36%.
•We repaid our $450,000,000 of 2.25% senior unsecured notes at par upon maturity on March 15, 2018. 
•We raised $794,649,000 through our dividend reinvestment program and our Equity Shelf Program (as defined below).
Investments The following summarizes our property acquisitions and joint venture investments made during the year ended
December 31, 2018 (dollars in thousands):
 Properties  Investment Amount(1)Capitalization Rates(2) Book Amount(3)
Seniors Housing Operating 12 $ 673,374 6.7%  $ 742,675
Triple-net 246  2,438,899 6.9%  3,062,427
Outpatient Medical 30 605,866 5.8%  628,824
Totals 288  $ 3,718,139 6.7%  $ 4,433,926
 
(1) Represents stated pro rata purchase price including cash and any assumed debt but excludes fair value adjustments pursuant to U.S. GAAP.
(2) Represents annualized contractual or projected net operating income to be received in cash divided by investment amounts.
(3) Represents amounts recorded in real property including fair value adjustments pursuant to U.S. GAAP. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for
additional information.
41
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Dispositions The following summarizes property dispositions made during the year ended December 31, 2018 (dollars in
thousands):
 Properties  Proceeds(1)Capitalization Rates(2) Book Amount(3)
Seniors Housing Operating 4 $ 40,073 7.5%  $ 36,627
Triple-net 107  1,050,290 5.3%  835,093
Outpatient Medical 21 464,843 6.2%  253,397
Totals 132  $ 1,555,206 5.6%  $ 1,125,1 17
 
(1) Represents pro rata proceeds received upon disposition.
(2) Represents annualized contractual net operating income that was being received in cash at date of disposition divided by disposition proceeds.
(3) Represents carrying value of assets at time of disposition. See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
     Dividends Our Board of Directors announced the 2019 annual cash dividend of $3.48 per common share ($0.87 per share
quarterly), consistent with 2018, beginning in February 2019. The dividend declared for the quarter ended December 31, 2018
represents the 191st consecutive quarterly dividend payment.
Key Performance Indicators, Trends and Uncertainties
We utilize several key performance indicators to evaluate the various aspects of our business. These indicators are discussed
below and relate to operating performance, credit strength and concentration risk. Management uses these key performance
indicators to facilitate internal and external comparisons to our historical operating results, in making operating decisions, and for
budget planning purposes.
Operating Performance We believe that net income and net income attributable to common stockholders (“NICS”) per the
Statement of Comprehensive Income are the most appropriate earnings measures. Other useful supplemental measures of our
operating performance include funds from operations attributable to common stockholders (“FFO”), consolidated net operating
income (“NOI”) and same store NOI (“SSNOI”); however, these supplemental measures are not defined by U.S. GAAP. Please
refer to the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for further discussion and reconciliations. These earnings measures
are widely used by investors and analysts in the valuation, comparison, and investment recommendations of companies. The
following table reflects the recent historical trends of our operating performance measures for the periods presented (in
thousands):  
  Year Ended December 31,
  2016 2017  2018
Net income  $ 1,082,070 $ 540,613  $ 829,750
Net income attributable to common stockholders  1,012,397 463,595  758,250
Funds from operations attributable to common stockholders  1,582,940 1,165,576  1,392,183
Consolidated net operating income  2,404,177 2,232,716  2,267,482
Same store net operating income  1,528,340 1,544,462  1,551,424
 
Credit Strength We measure our credit strength both in terms of leverage ratios and coverage ratios. The leverage ratios indicate
how much of our balance sheet capitalization is related to long-term debt, net of cash and Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”) section
1031 deposits. The coverage ratios indicate our ability to service interest and fixed charges (interest, secured debt principal
amortization and preferred dividends). We expect to maintain capitalization ratios and coverage ratios sufficient to maintain a
capital structure consistent with our current profile. The coverage ratios are based on adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization (“Adjusted EBITDA”). Please refer to the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for
further discussion and reconciliation of these measures. Leverage ratios and coverage ratios are widely used by investors, analysts
and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, investment recommendations, and rating of companies. The following table
reflects the recent historical trends for our credit strength measures for the periods presented:  
  Year Ended December 31,
  2016  2017  2018
Net debt to book capitalization ratio  42.9%  42.9%  45.0%
Net debt to undepreciated book capitalization ratio  37.4%  36.3%  37.8%
Net debt to market capitalization ratio  31.1%  31.2%  31.3%
Adjusted interest coverage ratio  4.21x  4.36x  4.11x
Adjusted fixed char ge coverage ratio  3.34x  3.54x  3.44x
 
Concentration Risk We evaluate our concentration risk in terms of NOI by property mix, relationship mix and geographic mix.
Concentration risk is a valuable measure in understanding what portion of our NOI could be at risk if certain sectors were to
experience downturns. Property mix measures the portion of our NOI that relates to our various property types. Relationship mix
measures the portion of our NOI that relates to our top five relationships. Geographic mix measures the portion of our NOI that
42
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
relates to our top five states (or international equivalents). The following table reflects our recent historical trends of concentration
risk by NOI for the years indicated below:
  December 31,(1)
  2016  2017  2018
Property mix:      
 Seniors Housing Operating 34%  40%  43%
 Triple-net 50%  43%  40%
 Outpatient Medical 16%  17%  17%
Relationship mix:      
 Sunrise Senior Living(2)13%  14%  15%
 Revera(2)6%  7%  7%
 Brookdale Senior Living 6%  7%  6%
 Genesis HealthCare 16%  9%  6%
 Benchmark Senior Living 4%  4%  4%
 Remaining 55%  59%  62%
Geographic mix:      
 California 10%  13%  14%
 United Kingdom 8%  9%  9%
 Canada 7%  8%  8%
 Texas 7%  7%  8%
 New Jersey 8%  8%  7%
 Remaining 60%  55%  54%
 
(1) Excludes our share of investments in unconsolidated entities and non-segment/corporate NOI. Entities in which we have a joint venture with a minority partner
are shown at 100% of the joint venture amount.
(2) Revera owns a controlling interest in Sunrise Senior Living.
We evaluate our key performance indicators in conjunction with current expectations to determine if historical trends are
indicative of future results. Our expected results may not be achieved and actual results may differ materially from our
expectations. Factors that may cause actual results to differ from expected results are described in more detail in “Item 1 —
Business — Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and “Item 1A — Risk Factors” and other sections of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Management regularly monitors economic and other factors to develop strategic and tactical
plans designed to improve performance and maximize our competitive position. Our ability to achieve our financial objectives is
dependent upon our ability to effectively execute these plans and to appropriately respond to emerging economic and company-
specific trends. Please refer to “Item 1 — Business,” “Item 1A — Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further
discussion of these risk factors.
Corporate Governance
Maintaining investor confidence and trust is important in today’s business environment. Our Board of Directors and management
are strongly committed to policies and procedures that reflect the highest level of ethical business practices. Our corporate
governance guidelines provide the framework for our business operations and emphasize our commitment to increase stockholder
value while meeting all applicable legal requirements. These guidelines meet the listing standards adopted by the New York Stock
Exchange and are available on the Internet at www.welltower.com/investors/governance.  The information on our website is not
incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference
only.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Sources and Uses of Cash
Our primary sources of cash include resident fees/services, rent and interest receipts, borrowings under our primary unsecured
credit facility, public issuances of debt and equity securities, proceeds from investment dispositions and principal payments on
loans receivable. Our primary uses of cash include dividend distributions, debt service payments (including principal and interest),
real property investments (including acquisitions, capital expenditures, construction advances and transaction costs), loan advances,
property operating expenses and general and administrative expenses. These sources and uses of cash are reflected in our
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and are discussed in further detail below. The following is a summary of our sources and
uses of cash flows for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
43
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended  One Year Change  Two Year Change
 December 31, December 31,   December 31,        
 2016 2017 $ % 2018  $  %  $ %
Beginning cash, cash
equivalents and restricted cash $ 422,690 $ 607,220 $184,530 44 % $ 309,303  $(297,917 ) -49 % $(113,387 ) -27 %
Net cash provided from (used
in):       
Operating activities 1,639,064 1,434,177 (204,887 ) -13 % 1,583,944  149,767  10 % (55,120 ) -3 %
Investing activities (183,443 ) 154,581 338,024 n/a (2,386,471 ) (2,541,052 ) n/a  (2,203,028 ) 1,201  %
Financing activities (1,250,817 ) (1,913,527 ) (662,710 ) 53 % 818,368  2,731,895  n/a  2,069,185 n/a
Effect of foreign currency
translation (20,274 ) 26,852 47,126 n/a (9,015 ) (35,867 ) n/a  11,259 -56 %
Ending cash, cash equivalents
and restricted cash $ 607,220 $ 309,303 $(297,917 ) -49 % $ 316,129  $ 6,826  2 % $(291,091 ) -48 %
 
Operating Activities The change in net cash provided from operating activities is attributable to changes in NOI, which is
primarily due to acquisitions and annual rent increasers, partially offset to dispostions. Please see “Results of Operations” below for
further discussion. For the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018, cash flows from operations exceeded cash distributions
to stockholders.
Investing Activities  The changes in net cash used in investing activities are primarily attributable to net changes in real property
investments, real estate loans receivable, and investments in unconsolidated entities which are summarized above in “Key
Transactions.” Please refer to Notes 3, 6, and 7 of our consolidated financial statements for additional information. The following is
a summary of cash used in non-acquisition capital improvement activities for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended  One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
 December 31,December 31,     December 31,      
 2016 2017  $  %  2018 $  % $  %
New development $ 403,131 $ 232,715 $(170,416) -42 % $ 160,706 $(72,009) -31 % $(242,425) -60 %
Recurring capital expenditures,
tenant improvements and lease
commissions 66,332 67,797 1,465 2 % 90,190 22,393 33 % 23,858 36 %
Renovations, redevelopments
and other capital improvements 152,814 182,479 29,665 19 % 175,993 (6,486) -4 % 23,179 15 %
Total $ 622,277 $ 482,991 $(139,286) -22 % $ 426,889 $(56,102) -12 % $(195,388) -31 %
 
The change in new development is primarily due to the number and size of construction projects on-going during the relevant
periods. Renovations, redevelopments and other capital improvements include expenditures to maximize property value, increase
net operating income, maintain a market-competitive position, and/or achieve property stabilization. Generally, these expenditures
have increased as a result of acquisitions, primarily in our Seniors Housing Operating segment.
Financing Activities The changes in net cash provided from financing activities are primarily attributable to changes related to
our long-term debt arrangements, the issuance/redemptions of common and preferred stock and dividend payments which are
summarized above in “Key Transactions.” Please refer to Notes 9, 10 and 13 of our consolidated financial statements for additional
information.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
At December 31, 2018, we had investments in unconsolidated entities with our ownership generally ranging from 10% to 50%.
We use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate exposure. At December 31, 2018,
we had fourteen outstanding letter of credit obligations. Please see Notes 7, 11 and 12 to our consolidated financial statements for
additional information.
Contractual Obligations
The following table summarizes our payment requirements under contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018 (in
thousands):
44
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 Payments Due by Period
Contractual Obligations Total 2019 2020-2021 2022-2023 Thereafter
Unsecured revolving credit facility(1)$ 1,147,000 $ — $ — $ 1,147,000 $ —
Senior unsecured notes and term credit
facilities:(2)    
U.S. Dollar senior unsecured notes 7,450,000 600,000 900,000 1,700,000 4,250,000
     Canadian Dollar senior unsecured
notes(3)219,989 — 219,989 — —
     Pounds Sterling senior unsecured
notes(3)1,339,170 — — — 1,339,170
U.S. Dollar term credit facility 507,500 — 7,500 500,000 —
     Canadian Dollar term credit facility(3)183,325 — — 183,325 —
Secured debt:(2,3)    
Consolidated 2,485,71 1 508,899 507,412 605,789 863,61 1
     Unconsolidated  790,643 51,614 88,024 39,495 611,510
Contractual interest obligations:(4)    
Unsecured revolving credit facility 171,910 38,202 76,405 57,303 —
     Senior unsecured notes and term loans(3)3,930,812 424,529 758,541 638,183 2,109,559
     Consolidated secured debt(3)478,922 90,861 144,026 96,873 147,162
     Unconsolidated secured debt(3)211,077 30,919 51,892 47,904 80,362
Capital lease obligations(5)84,265 4,173 8,346 71,746 —
Operating lease obligations(5)1,138,046 18,242 35,392 33,965 1,050,447
Purchase obligations(5)1,704,293 1,599,477 104,816 — —
Other long-term liabilities(6)1,229 1,229 — — —
Total contractual obligations $ 21,843,892 $ 3,368,145 $ 2,902,343 $ 5,121,583 $ 10,451,821
(1) Relates to our unsecured revolving credit facility with an aggregate commitment of $3,000,000,000. See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements.
(2) Amounts represent principal amounts due and do not reflect unamortized premiums/discounts or other fair value adjustments as reflected on the balance sheet.
(3) Based on foreign currency exchange rates in effect as of balance sheet date.
(4) Based on variable interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2018.
(5) See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
(6) Primarily relates to payments to be made under a supplemental executive retirement plan for one former executive officer.
Capital Structure
Please refer to “Credit Strength” above for a discussion of our leverage and coverage ratio trends. Our debt agreements contain
various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Certain agreements require us to maintain financial ratios and minimum net
worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. As of
December 31, 2018, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under our debt agreements. None of our debt agreements
contain provisions for acceleration which could be triggered by our debt ratings. However, under our primary unsecured credit
facility, the ratings on our senior unsecured notes are used to determine the fees and interest charged. We plan to manage the
company to maintain compliance with our debt covenants and with a capital structure consistent with our current profile. Any
downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and
availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or
financial condition.
On May 17, 2018, we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (1) an open-ended automatic or “universal” shelf
registration statement covering an indeterminate amount of future offerings of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock,
depositary shares, warrants and units and (2) a registration statement in connection with our enhanced dividend reinvestment plan
(“DRIP”) under which we may issue up to 15,000,000 shares of common stock. As of February 13, 2019, 8,526,222 shares of
common stock remained available for issuance under the DRIP registration statement. On August 3, 2018, we entered into separate
amended and restated equity distribution agreements with each of Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &
Smith Incorporated; Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC; UBS Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC relating to the offer and
sale from time to time of up to $784,083,001 aggregate amount of our common stock (“Equity Shelf Program”). The Equity Shelf
Program also allows us to enter into forward sale agreements. We expect that, if entered into, we will physically settle each forward
sale agreement on one or more dates on or prior to the maturity date of that particular forward sale agreement, in which case we
will expect to receive per share cash proceeds at settlement equal to the forward sale price under the relevant forward sale
agreement.  However, we may elect to cash settle or net share settle a forward sale agreement. As of February 13, 2019, we had
$227,958,000 of remaining capacity under the Equity Shelf Program and there were no outstanding forward sales agreements.
Depending upon market conditions, we anticipate issuing securities under our registration statements to invest in additional
properties and to repay borrowings under our primary unsecured credit facility.
45
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Results of Operations
Summary
Our primary sources of revenue include resident fees/services,rent and interest income. Our primary expenses include interest
expense, depreciation and amortization, property operating expenses, other expenses and general and administrative expenses.  We
evaluate our business and make resource allocations on our three business segments: Seniors Housing Operating, Triple-net and
Outpatient Medical. The primary performance measures for our properties are NOI and SSNOI and other supplemental measures
include FFO and Adjusted EBITDA, which are further discussed below.  Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional
information and reconciliations. The following is a summary of our results of operations for the periods presented (dollars in
thousands, except per share amounts):
  Year Ended  One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
  December 31, December 31,   December 31,       
  2016  2017  Amount % 2018 Amount %  Amount %
Net income  $1,082,070 $ 540,613 $(541,457) -50 % $ 829,750 $289,137 53 % $(252,320) -23 %
NICS  1,012,397 463,595 (548,802) -54 % 758,250 294,655 64 % (254,147) -25 %
FFO  1,582,940 1,165,576 (417,364) -26 % 1,392,183 226,607 19 % (190,757) -12 %
Adjusted EBITDA  2,256,864 2,128,429 (128,435) -6 % 2,153,005 24,576 1 % (103,859) -5 %
Consolidated NOI  2,404,177 2,232,716 (171,461) -7 % 2,267,482 34,766 2 % (136,695) -6 %
Same store NOI  1,528,340 1,544,462 16,122 1 % 1,551,424 6,962 — % 23,084 2 %
          
Per share data (fully diluted):            
Net income attributable to
common
stockholders  $ 2.81 $ 1.26 $ (1.55) -55 % $ 2.02 $ 0.76 60 % $ (0.79) -28 %
Funds from operations
attributable to
common stockholders  4.39 3.16 (1.23) -28 % 3.71 0.55 17 % (0.68) -15 %
Adjusted interest coverage ratio  4.21x 4.36x 0.15x 4 % 4.11x -0.25x -6 % 0.15x 4 %
Adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio 3.34x 3.54x 0.20x 6 % 3.44x -0.10x -3 % 0.20x 6 %
 
The following table represents the changes in outstanding common stock for the period from January 1, 2016 to December 31,
2018 (in thousands):
 Year Ended   
 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2017  December 31, 2018  Totals
Beginning balance 354,778 362,602  371,732  354,778
Dividend reinvestment plan issuances 4,145 5,640  6,529  16,314
Preferred stock conversions — 4 — 4
Redemption of equity membership units — 91 — 91
Option exercises 141 253  57 451
Equity Shelf Program issuances 3,135 2,987  5,241  11,363
Other , net 403 155  116 674
Ending balance 362,602 371,732  383,675  383,675
Average number of shares outstanding:      
Basic 358,275 367,237  373,620   
Diluted 360,227 369,001  375,250   
 
During the past three years, inflation has not significantly affected our earnings because of the moderate inflation rate.
Additionally, a portion of our earnings are derived primarily from long-term investments with predictable rates of return. These
investments are mainly financed with a combination of equity, senior unsecured notes, secured debt and borrowings under our
primary unsecured credit facility. During inflationary periods, which generally are accompanied by rising interest rates, our ability
to grow may be adversely affected because the yield on new investments may increase at a slower rate than new borrowing costs.
Presuming the current inflation rate remains moderate and long-term interest rates do not increase significantly, we believe that
inflation will not impact the availability of equity and debt financing for us.
46
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Seniors Housing Operating 
The following is a summary of our NOI and SSNOI for the Seniors Housing Operating segment for the years presented (dollars
in thousands):
 Year Ended  One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
 December 31, December 31,    December 31,      
 2016  2017  $ %  2018  $  % $ %
NOI $ 814,114 $ 880,026 $65,912 8 % $ 985,022 $104,996 12 % $170,908 21 %
Non-cash NOI attributable to
same store properties(1) 1,990 1,242 (748) -38 % 836 (406) -33 % (1,154) -58 %
NOI attributable to non same
store properties(2) (77,334) (132,604) (55,270) 71 % (251,803) (119,199) 90 % (174,469) 226 %
SSNOI(1) $ 738,770 $ 748,664 $ 9,894 1 % $ 734,055 $(14,609) -2 % $(4,715) -1 %
 
(1) Relates to 348 same store properties.
(2) Primarily relates to the acquisition of 66 properties subsequent to January 1, 2016 and the transition of 69 properties from Triple-net to Seniors Housing
Operating.
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the Seniors Housing Operating segment for the years presented
(dollars in thousands):
   Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
   December 31, December 31,   December 31,       
   2016  2017 $  % 2018  $  % $  %
Revenues:               
  Resident fees and services $2,504,731 $2,779,423 $274,692 11 % $3,234,852 $455,429 16 % $730,121 29 %
  Interest income 4,180 69 (4,111) -98 % 578 509 738 % (3,602) -86 %
  Other income 17,085 5,127 (11,958) -70 % 5,024 (103) -2 % (12,061) -71 %
  Total revenues 2,525,996 2,784,619 258,623 10 % 3,240,454 455,835 16 % 714,458 28 %
Property operating expenses 1,711,882 1,904,593 192,711 11 % 2,255,432 350,839 18 % 543,550 32 %
  NOI(1) 814,114 880,026 65,912 8 % 985,022 104,996 12 % 170,908 21 %
Other expenses:            
  Depreciation and amortization 415,429 484,796 69,367 17 % 529,449 44,653 9 % 114,020 27 %
  Interest expense 81,853 63,265 (18,588) -23 % 69,060 5,795 9 % (12,793) -16 %
  Transaction costs(2) 29,207 — (29,207) -100 % — — n/a (29,207) -100 %
  Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net (88) 3,785 3,873 -4,401 % 110 (3,675) -97 % 198 -225 %
  Impairment of assets 12,403 21,949 9,546 77 % 7,599 (14,350) -65 % (4,804) -39 %
  Other expenses(2) — 8,347 8,347 n/a 6,624 (1,723) -21 % 6,624 n/a
  538,804 582,142 43,338 8 % 612,842 30,700 5 % 74,038 14 %
Income (loss) from continuing operations
before income taxes and other items 275,310 297,884 22,574 8 % 372,180 74,296 25 % 96,870 35 %
Income tax benefit (expense) (3,762) (16,430) (12,668) 337 % 1,202 17,632 -107 % 4,964 -132 %
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities (20,442) (105,236) (84,794) 415 % (28,142) 77,094 -73 % (7,700) 38 %
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 9,880 56,295 46,415 470 % (2,245) (58,540) -104 % (12,125) -123 %
Income from continuing operations 260,986 232,513 (28,473) -11 % 342,995 110,482 48 % 82,009 31 %
Net income (loss) 260,986 232,513 (28,473) -11 % 342,995 110,482 48 % 82,009 31 %
Less: Net income (loss) attributable to
noncontrolling interests 2,292 8,472 6,180 270 % (660) (9,132) -108 % (2,952) -129 %
Net income (loss) attributable to common
stockholders $ 258,694 $ 224,041 $(34,653) -13 % $ 343,655 $119,614 53 % $84,961 33 %
 
(1) See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below.
(2) See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements.
Fluctuations in resident fees/services and property operating expenses are primarily a result of acquisitions, segment transitions
and the movement of U.S. and foreign currency exchange rates. The fluctuations in depreciation and amortization are due to
acquisitions and variations in amortization of short-lived intangible assets. To the extent that we acquire or dispose of additional
properties in the future, these amounts will change accordingly. The decrease in other income for the year ended December 31,
2018 is primarily a result of insurance proceeds received during 2017 relating to a property as well as a bargain purchase gain
recognized in conjunction with a single property acquisition. 
During the three years presented, we recorded impairment charges on certain held for sale properties as the carrying value
exceeded the estimated fair value less costs to sell. The fluctuations in gains (losses) on real estate dispositions are due to the
volume of property sales and sales prices. Beginning January 1, 2017, transaction costs related to asset acquisitions are capitalized
47
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
as a component of purchase price. The increase in other expenses since 2016 are primarily due to noncapitalizable transaction costs
from acquisitions.
During the year ended December 31, 2018, we completed two seniors housing operating construction projects representing
$86,931,000 or $459,952 per unit and one expansion project totaling $2,672,000. The following is a summary of our Seniors
Housing Operating construction projects, excluding expansions, pending as of December 31, 2018 (dollars in thousands):
Location Units/Beds Commitment  Balance Est. Completion
Wandsworth, UK 98 $ 75,185  $ 41,833 1Q20
Potomac, MD 120 56,623  7,627 4Q20
 218 $ 131,808  49,460  
Toronto, ON Project in planning stage  39,898
   $ 89,358
 
Interest expense represents secured debt interest expense which fluctuates based on the net effect and timing of assumptions,
segment transitions, fluctuations in foreign currency rates, extinguishments and principal amortizations. The fluctuations in loss
(gain) on extinguishment of debt is primarily attributable the volume of extinguishments and terms of the related secured debt.  The
following is a summary of our Seniors Housing Operating property secured debt principal activity (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended
 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2018
   Weighted Avg.   Weighted Avg.   Weighted Avg.
 Amount  Interest Rate Amount  Interest Rate Amount  Interest Rate
Beginning balance $ 2,290,552 3.96% $ 2,463,249 3.94% $ 1,988,700 3.66%
Debt transferred in — —% — —% 35,830 3.84%
Debt issued 293,860 2.90% 228,772 2.72% 45,447 3.40%
Debt assumed 60,898 4.30% — —% 121,612 5.55%
Debt extinguished (159,498) 3.66% (668,804) 4.81% (240,095) 4.83%
Debt deconsolidated — —% (60,000) 3.80% — 0.00%
Principal payments (49,112) 3.89% (47,153) 3.60% (47,886) 3.59%
Foreign currency 26,549 3.48% 72,636 3.23% (93,021) 3.31%
Ending balance $ 2,463,249 3.94% $ 1,988,700 3.66% $ 1,810,587 3.87%
Monthly averages $ 2,391,706 3.93% $ 2,065,477 3.66% $ 1,915,663 3.74%
The majority of our seniors housing operating properties are formed through partnership interests. The fluctuations in income
(loss) from unconsolidated entities are largely due to the recognition of impairments related to one of our investments in
unconsolidated entities during the year ended December 31, 2017. Losses are also attributable to depreciation and amortization of
short-lived intangible assets related to certain investments in unconsolidated joint ventures. Net income attributable to
noncontrolling interests represents our partners’ share of net income (loss) related to joint ventures.
Triple-net 
The following is a summary of our NOI and SSNOI for the Triple-net segment for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended  One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
 December 31, December 31,    December 31,    
 2016  2017  $  % 2018 $ % $ %
NOI $ 1,208,860 $ 967,084 $(241,776) -20 % $ 900,049 $(67,035) -7 % $(308,811) -26 %
Non-cash NOI attributable to
same store properties(1) (28,538) (23,764) 4,774 -17 % (17,093) 6,671 -28 % 11,445 -40 %
NOI attributable to non same
store properties(2) (709,606) (465,820) 243,786 -34 % (401,878) 63,942 -14 % 307,728 -43 %
SSNOI(1) $ 470,716 $ 477,500 $ 6,784 1 % $ 481,078 $3,578 1 % $10,362 2 %
 
(1) Relates to 364 same store properties.
(2) Primarily relates to the acquisition of 264 properties and 40 properties sold or held for sale at December 31, 2018.
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the Triple-net segment for the years presented (dollars in thousands):
48
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  Year Ended  One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
  December 31, December 31,     December 31,       
  2016 2017  $  %  2018 $  %  $  %
Revenues:                
 Rental income $1,112,325 $ 885,811 $(226,514) -20 % $ 828,865 $(56,946) -6 % $(283,460) -25 %
 Interest income 90,476 73,742 (16,734) -18 % 54,926 (18,816) -26 % (35,550) -39 %
 Other income 6,059 7,531 1,472 24 % 17,173 9,642 128 % 11,114 183 %
 Total revenues 1,208,860 967,084 (241,776) -20 % 900,964 (66,120) -7 % (307,896) -25 %
 Property operating expenses — — — n/a 915 915 n/a (915) n/a
 NOI(1) 1,208,860 967,084 (241,776) -20 % 900,049 (67,035) -7 % (306,981) -25 %
Other expenses:              
 Depreciation and amortization 297,197 243,830 (53,367) -18 % 235,480 (8,350) -3 % (61,717) -21 %
 Interest expense 21,370 15,194 (6,176) -29 % 14,225 (969) -6 % (7,145) -33 %
 Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial
instruments, net 68 2,284 2,216 3,259 % (4,016) (6,300) -276 % (4,084) -6,006 %
 Transaction costs(2) 10,016 — (10,016) -100 % — — n/a (10,016) -100 %
 Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 863 29,083 28,220 3,270 % (32) (29,115) -100 % (895) -104 %
 Provision for loan losses 6,935 62,966 56,031 808 % — (62,966) -100 % (6,935) -100 %
 Impairment of assets 20,169 96,909 76,740 380 % 107,980 11,071 11 % 87,811 435 %
 Other expenses(2) — 116,689 116,689 n/a 90,975 (25,714) -22 % 90,975 n/a
  356,618 566,955 210,337 59 % 444,612 (122,343) -22 % 87,994 25 %
Income from continuing operations before
income taxes and other items 852,242 400,129 (452,113) -53 % 455,437 55,308 14 % (396,805) -47 %
Income tax benefit (expense) (1,087) (4,291) (3,204) 295 % 1,611 5,902 -138 % 2,698 -248 %
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities 9,767 19,428 9,661 99 % 21,938 2,510 13 % 12,171 125 %
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 355,394 286,325 (69,069) -19 % 196,589 (89,736) -31 % (158,805) -45 %
Income from continuing operations 1,216,316 701,591 (514,725) -42 % 675,575 (26,016) -4 % (540,741) -44 %
Net income 1,216,316 701,591 (514,725) -42 % 675,575 (26,016) -4 % (540,741) -44 %
Less: Net income attributable to
noncontrolling interests 1,221 4,603 3,382 277 % 19,306 14,703 319 % 18,085 1,481 %
Net income attributable to common
stockholders $1,215,095 $ 696,988 $(518,107) -43 % $ 656,269 $(40,719) -6 % $(558,826) -46 %
 
(1) See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below.
(2) See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements.
The 2017 and 2018 decreases in rental income are primarily attributable to the disposition of properties exceeding new
acquisitions, segment transitions and the reduction in the Genesis HealthCare ("Genesis") annual cash rent obligation due to the
restructuring of the master lease as of January 1, 2018. Certain of our leases contain annual rental escalators that are contingent
upon changes in the Consumer Price Index (“CPI”) and/or changes in the gross operating revenues of the tenant’s properties. These
escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental income is recorded based on the contractual cash rental
payments due for the period. If gross operating revenues at our facilities and/or the CPI do not increase, a portion of our revenues
may not continue to increase. Our leases could renew above or below current rent rates, resulting in an increase or decrease in
rental income.  For the three months ended December 31, 2018, we had 17 leases with rental rate increasers ranging from 0.18% to
0.76% in our triple-net portfolio. The decrease in interest income is primarily attributable to the volume of loan payoffs during the
three years presented. The increase in other income for the year ended December 31, 2018 is primarily due to $10,805,000 of net
lease termination fees recognized.
Depreciation and amortization decreased primarily as a result of the disposition of triple-net properties exceeding acquisition and
segment transitions. To the extent we acquire or dispose of additional properties in the future, our provision for depreciation and
amortization will change accordingly.
The provision for loan losses is related to our critical accounting estimate for the allowance for loan losses and is discussed in
“Critical Accounting Policies” below and Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements. During the years ended December 31,
2017 and 2016, we recorded provision for loan losses related to certain first mortgage loans to Genesis of $62,966,000 and
$6,935,000, respectively.
During the three years presented, we recorded impairment charges on certain held for sale properties as the carrying value
exceeded the estimated fair value less costs to sell. The fluctuations in gains on real estate dispositions are due to the volume of
property sales and sales prices. Beginning January 1, 2017, transaction costs related to asset acquisitions are capitalized as a
component of purchase price.
49
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Other expenses primarily represents noncapitalizable transaction costs from acquisitions, segment transitions and the
termination/restructuring of pre-existing relationships. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized an
other than temporary charge of $18,294,000 in other expenses on the Genesis available-for-sale equity investment.
During the year ended December 31, 2018, we completed two triple-net construction projects totaling $90,055,000 or $283,472
per bed/unit and two expansion projects totaling $17,357,000. The following is a summary of triple-net construction projects,
excluding expansions, pending as of December 31, 2018 (dollars in thousands):
Location Units/Beds  Commitment Balance  Est. Completion
Westerville, OH 90 $ 22,800 $ 8,160 3Q19
Union, KY 162 34,600 9,848 1Q20
Droitwich , UK 70 16,153 4,573 4Q20
Total 322 $ 73,553 $ 22,581  
 
Total interest expense represents secured debt interest expense and related fees.  The change in secured debt interest expense is
due to the net effect and timing of assumptions, segment transitions, fluctuations in foreign currency rates, extinguishments and
principal amortizations. The fluctuations in loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt is primarily attributable to the volume of
extinguishments and terms of the related secured debt. The fluctuation in loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net is
primarily attributable to the mark-to-market adjustment recorded on the Genesis available-for-sale investment in accordance with
the adoption of Accounting Standards Update 2016-01 described in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. The following
is a summary of our Triple-net secured debt principal activity for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended
 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2018
   Weighted Avg.   Weighted Avg.   Weighted Avg.
 Amount  Interest Rate Amount  Interest Rate Amount  Interest Rate
Beginning balance $ 554,014 5.49% $ 594,199 4.58% $ 347,474 3.55%
Debt issued 166,155 2.21% 13,000 4.57% — —%
Debt extinguished (118,500) 5.56% (274,048) 5.95% (4,107) 4.94%
Debt transferred out — —% — —% (35,830) 3.84%
Principal payments (10,627) 5.68% (5,863) 5.66% (3,982) 5.38%
Foreign currency 3,157 5.25% 20,186 2.91% (15,169) 3.44%
Ending balance $ 594,199 4.58% $ 347,474 3.55% $ 288,386 3.63%
Monthly averages $ 497,213 5.41% $ 408,688 3.91% $ 321,730 3.51%
 
A portion of our triple-net properties were formed through partnerships. Income or loss from unconsolidated entities represents
our share of net income or losses from partnerships where we are the noncontrolling partner. Net income attributable to
noncontrolling interests represents our partners’ share of net income relating to those partnerships where we are the controlling
partner.
Outpatient Medical 
The following is a summary of our NOI and SSNOI for the Outpatient Medical segment for the periods presented (dollars in
thousands):
 Year Ended  One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
 December 31, December 31,    December 31,    
 2016 2017  $ %  2018 $ % $ %
NOI $ 380,264 $ 384,068 $3,804 1 % $ 380,136 $(3,932) -1 % $ (128) — %
Non-cash NOI attributable to
same store properties(1) (8,190) (7,694) 496 -6 % (8,226) (532) 7 % (36) — %
NOI attributable to non same
store properties(2) (53,220) (58,076) (4,856) 9 % (35,619) 22,457 -39 % 17,601 -33 %
SSNOI(1) $ 318,854 $ 318,298 $(556) — % $ 336,291 $17,993 6 % $17,437 5 %
(1) Relates to 212 same store properties.
(2) Primarily relates to the acquisition of 48 properties and the conversion of 15 construction projects into revenue-generating properties subsequent to January 1,
2016.
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the Outpatient Medical segment for the periods presented (dollars in
thousands): 
50
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
  December 31, December 31,    December 31,     
  2016  2017 $  %  2018 $ % $  %
Revenues:              
 Rental income $ 536,490 $ 560,060 $23,570 4 % $ 551,557 $(8,503) -2 % $15,067 3 %
 Interest income 3,307 — (3,307) -100 % 310 310 n/a (2,997) -91 %
 Other income 5,568 3,340 (2,228) -40 % 4,939 1,599 48 % (629) -11 %
 Total revenues 545,365 563,400 18,035 3 % 556,806 (6,594) -1 % 11,441 2 %
Property operating expenses 165,101 179,332 14,231 9 % 176,670 (2,662) -1 % 11,569 7 %
 NOI(1) 380,264 384,068 3,804 1 % 380,136 (3,932) -1 % (128) — %
Other expenses:           
 Depreciation and amortization 188,616 193,094 4,478 2 % 185,530 (7,564) -4 % (3,086) -2 %
 Interest expense 19,087 10,015 (9,072) -48 % 7,051 (2,964) -30 % (12,036) -63 %
 Transaction costs(2) 3,687 — (3,687) -100 % — — n/a (3,687) -100 %
 Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net — 4,373 4,373 n/a 11,928 7,555 173 % 11,928 n/a
 Provision for loan losses. 3,280 — (3,280) -100 % — — n/a (3,280) -100 %
 Impairment of assets 4,635 5,625 990 21 % — (5,625) -100 % (4,635) -100 %
 Other expenses(2) — 1,911 1,911 n/a 7,570 5,659 296 % 7,570 n/a
  219,305 215,018 (4,287) -2 % 212,079 (2,939) -1 % (7,226) -3 %
Income from continuing operations before
income taxes and other item 160,959 169,050 8,091 5 % 168,057 (993) -1 % 7,098 4 %
Income tax benefit (expense) (511) (1,477) (966) 189 % (125) 1,352 -92 % 386 -76 %
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities 318 2,683 2,365 744 % 5,563 2,880 107 % 5,245 1,649 %
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net (1,228) 1,630 2,858 n/a 221,231 219,601 13,472 % 222,459 n/a
Income from continuing operations 159,538 171,886 9,490 6 % 394,726 3,239 2 % 12,729 8 %
Net income (loss) 159,538 171,886 12,348 8 % 394,726 222,840 130 % 235,188 147 %
Less: Net income (loss) attributable to
noncontrolling interests 768 4,765 3,997 520 % 6,150 1,385 29 % 5,382 701 %
Net income (loss) attributable to common
stockholders $ 158,770 $ 167,121 $ 8,351 5 % $ 388,576 $221,455 133 % $229,806 145 %
 
(1) See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below.
(2) See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements.
The fluctuations in rental income are primarily attributable to the acquisitions of new properties and the conversion of newly
constructed outpatient medical properties, offset by dispositions. Certain of our leases contain annual rental escalators that are
contingent upon changes in the CPI. These escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental income is
recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. If the CPI does not increase, a portion of our revenues
may not continue to increase. Our leases could renew above or below current rent rates, resulting in an increase or decrease in
rental income. For the three months ended December 31, 2018, our consolidated outpatient medical portfolio signed 77,850 square
feet of new leases and 184,349 square feet of renewals. The weighted-average term of these leases was seven years, with a rate of
$36.23 per square foot and tenant improvement and lease commission costs of $21.90 per square foot. Substantially all of these
leases contain an annual fixed or contingent escalation rent structure ranging from 2.0% to 3.9%.
The fluctuation in property operating expenses and depreciation and amortization are primarily attributable to acquisitions and
construction conversions of new outpatient medical facilities, offset by dispositions. To the extent that we acquire or dispose of
additional properties in the future, these amounts will change accordingly. During 2016 and 2017, we recognized impairment
charges related to certain held-for-sale properties as the carrying values exceeded the estimated fair values less costs to sell.
Changes in gains/losses on sales of properties are related to volume of property sales and the sales prices. 
During the year ended December 31, 2018, we completed one outpatient medical construction project representing $11,358,000
or $296 per square foot. The following is a summary of outpatient medical construction projects pending as of December 31, 2018
(dollars in thousands):
Location Square Feet  Commitment  Balance Est. Completion
Brooklyn, NY 140,955  $ 105,306  $ 58,390 3Q19
Houston, TX 73,500  23,455  5,097 4Q19
Porter , TX 55,000  20,800  4,198 4Q19
Total 269,455  $ 149,561  $ 67,685  
 
Total interest expense represents secured debt interest expense. The change in secured debt interest expense is primarily due to
the net effect and timing of assumptions, extinguishments and principal amortizations. The fluctuations in loss (gain) on
51
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
extinguishment of debt is primarily attributable the volume of extinguishments and terms of the related secured debt. The following
is a summary of our Outpatient Medical secured debt principal activity for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended
 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2018
   Weighted Avg.   Weighted Avg.   Weighted Avg.
 Amount  Interest Rate Amount  Interest Rate Amount  Interest Rate
Beginning balance $ 627,689 5.18% $ 404,079 4.85% $ 279,951 4.72%
Debt assumed — —% 23,094 6.67% 171,275 3.99%
Debt extinguished (210,115) 5.97% (137,416) 5.99% (61,291) 7.43%
Principal payments (13,495) 6.55% (9,806) 6.85% (3,197) 5.91%
Ending balance $ 404,079 4.85% $ 279,951 4.72% $ 386,738 4.20%
Monthly averages $ 536,774 5.11% $ 294,694 4.62% $ 238,214 4.25%
 
A portion of our outpatient medical properties were formed through partnerships. Income or loss from unconsolidated entities
represents our share of net income or losses from partnerships where we are the noncontrolling partner. Net income attributable to
noncontrolling interests represents our partners’ share of net income or loss relating to those partnerships where we are the
controlling partner. 
Non-Segment/Corporate
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the non-segment/corporate activities (dollars in thousands):
  Year Ended  One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
  December 31, December 31,     December 31,       
  2016  2017  $  %  2018  $  % $  %
Revenues:                 
 Other income $ 939 $ 1,538 $ 599 64 % $ 2,275 $ 737 48 % $ 1,336 142 %
Expenses:           
 Interest expense 399,035 396,148 (2,887) -1 % 436,256 40,108 10 % 37,221 9 %
 General and administrative expenses 155,241 122,008 (33,233) -21 % 126,383 4,375 4 % (28,858) -19 %
 Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial
instruments, net (2,516) — 2,516 -100 % — — n/a 2,516 -100 %
 Loss (gain) on extinguishments of debt, net 16,439 — (16,439) -100 % 4,091 4,091 n/a (12,348) -75 %
 Other expenses 11,998 50,829 38,831 324 % 7,729 (43,100) -85 % (4,269) -36 %
 Total expenses 580,197 568,985 (11,212) -2 % 574,459 5,474 1 % (5,738) -1 %
Loss from continuing operations before income
taxes (579,258) (567,447) 11,811 -2 % (572,184) (4,737) 1 % 7,074 -1 %
Income tax benefit (expense) 24,488 2,070 (22,418) -92 % (11,362) (13,432) n/a (35,850) n/a
Net loss (554,770) (565,377) (10,607) 2 % (583,546) (18,169) 3 % (28,776) 5 %
Preferred stock dividends 65,406 49,410 (15,996) -24 % 46,704 (2,706) -5 % (18,702) -29 %
Preferred stock redemption charge — 9,769 9,769 n/a — (9,769) -100 % — n/a
Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (620,176) $ (624,556) $(4,380) 1 % $ (630,250) $(5,694) 1 % $(10,074) 2 %
The following is a summary of our non-segment/corporate interest expense for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
  Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
  December 31, December 31,    December 31,      
  2016 2017 $ %  2018 $  % $ %
Senior unsecured notes  $ 368,775 $ 364,773 $(4,002) -1 % $ 387,955 $23,182 6 % $19,180 5 %
Secured debt  310 127 (183) -59 % 115 (12) -9 % (195) -63 %
Primary unsecured credit facility 16,811 17,863 1,052 6 % 34,626 16,763 94 % 17,815 106 %
Loan expense  13,139 13,385 246 2 % 13,560 175 1 % 421 3 %
Totals  $ 399,035 $ 396,148 $(2,887) -1 % $ 436,256 $40,108 10 % $37,221 9 %
 
The change in interest expense on senior unsecured notes is due to the net effect of issuances and extinguishments. Please refer to
Note 10 to consolidated financial statements for additional information. The change in interest expense on our primary unsecured
credit facility is due primarily to the net effect and timing of draws, paydowns and variable interest rate changes. Please refer to
Note 9 of our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our primary unsecured credit facility. Loan
expenses represent the amortization of costs incurred in connection with senior unsecured notes issuances. The loss on
extinguishment of debt in 2016 is due to the early extinguishment of the 2017 senior unsecured notes. The loss on extinguishment
of debt in 2018 is due to the term loan facility drawn on in July 2018 and paid off in August 2018.
52
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
General and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and
2016 were 2.69%, 2.83% and 3.63%, respectively. The decrease in general and administrative expenses since 2016 is primarily
related to a reduction in professional service fees for tax and legal consulting and compensation costs as a result of execution of our
strategic initiatives.  
Other expenses for 2017 primarily represents $40,730,000 of costs related to finalization of an agreement with the University of
Toledo Foundation to transfer our corporate headquarters as a donation. Other expenses for all years also includes severance-related
costs associated with the departure of certain executive officers and key employees. 
The fluctuations in income taxes are primarily due to benefits recognized in the year ended December 31, 2016 related to the
release of a valuation allowance reserve on a taxable subsidiary and the restructuring of an unconsolidated investment. The
decrease in preferred dividends and the preferred stock redemption charge are due to the redemption of our 6.5% Series J preferred
stock during the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Other
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We believe that net income and net income attributable to common stockholders (“NICS”), as defined by U.S. GAAP, are the
most appropriate earnings measurements. However, we consider FFO, NOI, SSNOI, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA to be useful
supplemental measures of our operating performance. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S.
GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time as evidenced by the provision for
depreciation. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and
analysts have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be
insufficient. In response, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”) created funds from operations
attributable to common stockholders (“FFO”) as a supplemental measure of operating performance for REITs that excludes
historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO, as defined by NAREIT, means NICS, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP,
excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate and impairment of depreciable assets, plus depreciation and amortization, and
after adjustments for unconsolidated entities and noncontrolling interests.
Consolidated net operating income (“NOI”) is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties. We define NOI as
total revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property operating expenses. Property operating expenses represent costs
associated with managing, maintaining and servicing tenants for our seniors housing operating and outpatient medical facility
properties. These expenses include, but are not limited to, property-related payroll and benefits, property management fees paid to
operators, marketing, housekeeping, food service, maintenance, utilities, property taxes and insurance. General and administrative
expenses represent costs unrelated to property operations. These expenses include, but are not limited to, payroll and benefits,
professional services, office expenses, and depreciation of corporate fixed assets. Same store NOI (“SSNOI”) is used to evaluate
the operating performance of our properties using a consistent population which controls for changes in the composition of our
portfolio. As used herein, same store is generally defined as those revenue-generating properties in the portfolio for the reporting
period subsequent to January 1, 2016. Land parcels, loans and sub-leases, as well as any properties acquired, developed
/redeveloped, transitioned, sold or classified as held for sale during that period are excluded from the same store amounts. We
believe NOI and SSNOI provide investors relevant and useful information because they measure the operating performance of our
properties at the property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI and SSNOI to make decisions about resource allocations and
to assess the property level performance of our properties.
EBITDA stands for earnings (net income) before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We believe that EBITDA, along
with net income and cash flow provided from operating activities, is an important supplemental measure because it provides
additional information to assess and evaluate the performance of our operations. We primarily utilize EBITDA to measure our
interest coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA divided by total interest, and our fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents
EBITDA divided by fixed charges. Fixed charges include total interest, secured debt principal amortization, and preferred
dividends. Covenants in our senior unsecured notes and primary unsecured credit facility contain financial ratios based on a
definition of EBITDA that is specific to those agreements. Failure to satisfy these covenants could result in an event of default that
could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on
our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. Due to the materiality of these debt agreements and the
financial covenants, we have disclosed Adjusted EBITDA, which represents EBITDA as defined above excluding unconsolidated
entities and adjusted for items per our covenant. We use Adjusted EBITDA to measure our adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio,
which represents Adjusted EBITDA divided by fixed charges on a trailing twelve months basis. Fixed charges include total interest
(excluding capitalized interest and non-cash interest expenses), secured debt principal amortization and preferred dividends. Our
covenant requires an adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.50 times.
53
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Our supplemental reporting measures and similarly entitled financial measures are widely used by investors, equity and debt
analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. Management uses
these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to our historical operating results and in making operating
decisions. Additionally, these measures are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management. None of our supplemental
measures represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and
should not be considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, the supplemental measures, as defined by us,
may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies.
The table below reflects the reconciliation of FFO to NICS, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods
presented. Noncontrolling interest and unconsolidated entity amounts represent adjustments to reflect our share of depreciation and
amortization, gains/loss on real estate dispositions and impairments of assets.  Amounts are in thousands except for per share data.
 Year Ended December 31,
FFO Reconciliation: 2016  2017 2018
Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 1,012,397  $ 463,595 $ 758,250
Depreciation and amortization 901,242  921,720 950,459
Impairment of assets 37,207  124,483 115,579
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net (364,046 ) (344,250 ) (415,575 )
Noncontrolling interests (71,527 ) (60,018 ) (69,193 )
Unconsolidated entities 67,667  60,046 52,663
Funds from operations attributable to common stockholders $ 1,582,940  $ 1,165,576 $ 1,392,183
Average common shares outstanding:     
Basic 358,275  367,237 373,620
Diluted 360,227  369,001 375,250
Per share data:     
Net income attributable to common stockholders     
Basic $ 2.83  $ 1.26 $ 2.03
Diluted 2.81  1.26 2.02
Funds from operations attributable to common stockholders     
Basic $ 4.42  $ 3.17 $ 3.73
Diluted 4.39 3.16 3.71
 
54
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The table below reflects the reconciliation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA to net income, the most directly comparable U.S.
GAAP measure, for the periods presented.  Dollars are in thousands.
 Year Ended December 31,
Adjusted EBITDA  Reconciliation: 2016  2017 2018
Net income $ 1,082,070  $ 540,613 $ 829,750
Interest expense 521,345  484,622 526,592
Income tax expense (benefit) (19,128 ) 20,128 8,674
Depreciation and amortization 901,242  921,720 950,459
EBITDA 2,485,529 1,967,083 2,315,475
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities 10,357  83,125 641
Transaction costs 42,910  — —
Stock-based compensation expense(1)28,869  19,102 27,646
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 17,214  37,241 16,097
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net (364,046 ) (344,250 ) (415,575 )
Impairment of assets 37,207  124,483 115,579
Provision for loan losses 10,215  62,966 —
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net (2,448 ) 2,284 (4,016 )
Other expenses(1)7,721  176,395 111,990
Additional other income (16,664 ) — (14,832 )
Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,256,864 $ 2,128,429 $ 2,153,005
Adjusted Inter est Coverage Ratio:     
Interest expense $ 521,345  $ 484,622 $ 526,592
Capitalized interest 16,943  13,489 7,905
Non-cash interest expense (1,681 ) (10,359 ) (10,860 )
Total interest 536,607 487,752 523,637
Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,256,864 $ 2,128,429 $ 2,153,005
Adjusted interest coverage ratio 4.21x 4.36x 4.11x
Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio:     
Total interest $ 536,607  $ 487,752 $ 523,637
Secured debt principal payments 74,466  64,078 56,288
Preferred dividends 65,406  49,410 46,704
Total fixed char ges 676,479 601,240 626,629
Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,256,864 $ 2,128,429 $ 2,153,005
Adjusted fixed char ge coverage ratio 3.34x 3.54x 3.44x
 
(1) Certain severance-related costs are included in stock-based compensation and excluded from other expenses.
Our leverage ratios include book capitalization, undepreciated book capitalization and market capitalization. Book capitalization
represents the sum of net debt (defined as total long-term debt less cash and cash equivalents and any IRC section 1031 deposits),
total equity and redeemable noncontrolling interests. Undepreciated book capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for
accumulated depreciation and amortization. Market capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for the fair market value
of our common stock. Our leverage ratios are defined as the proportion of net debt to total capitalization. The table below reflects
the reconciliation of our leverage ratios to our balance sheets for the periods presented. Amounts are in thousands, except share
price.
55
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    Year Ended December 31,
    2016  2017  2018
Book capitalization:       
Borrowings under primary unsecured credit facility  $ 645,000  $ 719,000  $ 1,147,000
Long-term debt obligations(1) 11,713,245  11,012,936  12,150,144
Cash and cash equivalents(2) (557,659 ) (249,620 ) (215,376 )
Total net debt  11,800,586 11,482,316 13,081,768
Total equity and noncontrolling interests(3) 15,679,905  15,300,646  16,010,645
Book capitalization  $ 27,480,491 $ 26,782,962 $ 29,092,413
  Net debt to book capitalization ratio  42.9% 42.9% 45.0%
Undepr eciated book capitalization:       
Total net debt  $ 11,800,586  $ 11,482,316  $ 13,081,768
Accumulated depreciation and amortization  4,093,494  4,838,370  5,499,958
Total equity and noncontrolling interests(3) 15,679,905  15,300,646  16,010,645
Undepreciated book capitalization  $ 31,573,985 $ 31,621,332 $ 34,592,371
  Net debt to undepreciated book capitalization ratio  37.4% 36.3% 37.8%
Market capitalization:       
Common shares outstanding  362,602  371,732  383,675
Period end share price  $ 66.93  $ 63.77  $ 69.41
Common equity market capitalization  $ 24,268,952  $ 23,705,350  $ 26,630,882
Total net debt  11,800,586  11,482,316  13,081,768
Noncontrolling interests(3) 873,512  877,499  1,378,31 1
Preferred stock  1,006,250  718,503  718,498
Market capitalization:  $ 37,949,300 $ 36,783,668 $ 41,809,459
  Net debt to market capitalization ratio  31.1% 31.2% 31.3%
 
(1) Amounts include senior unsecured notes, secured debt and capital lease obligations as reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
(2) Inclusive of IRC section 1031 deposits, if any.
(3) Includes all noncontrolling interests (redeemable and permanent) as reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The following tables reflect the reconciliation of NOI and SSNOI to net income, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP
measure, for the years presented.  Dollar amounts are in thousands.
      Year Ended December 31,
NOI Reconciliation:  2016 2017 2018
Net income  $ 1,082,070 $ 540,613 $ 829,750
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net  (364,046 ) (344,250 ) (415,575 )
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities  10,357 83,125 641
Income tax expense (benefit)  (19,128 ) 20,128 8,674
Other expenses  11,998 177,776 112,898
Impairment of assets  37,207 124,483 115,579
Provision for loan losses  10,215 62,966 —
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net  17,214 37,241 16,097
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net  (2,448 ) 2,284 (4,016 )
Transaction costs  42,910 — —
General and administrative expenses  155,241 122,008 126,383
Depreciation and amortization  901,242 921,720 950,459
Interest expense  521,345 484,622 526,592
Consolidated net operating income (NOI)  $ 2,404,177 $ 2,232,716 $ 2,267,482
NOI by segment:     
  Seniors Housing Operating  $ 814,1 14 $ 880,026 $ 985,022
  Triple-net  1,208,860 967,084 900,049
  Outpatient Medical  380,264 384,068 380,136
  Non-segment/corporate  939 1,538 2,275
    Total NOI  $ 2,404,177 $ 2,232,716 $ 2,267,482
56
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 Year Ended December 31,
SSNOI Reconciliation: 2016  2017 2018
NOI:    
Seniors Housing Operating $ 814,1 14 $ 880,026 $ 985,022
Triple-net 1,208,860  967,084 900,049
Outpatient Medical 380,264  384,068 380,136
Total 2,403,238 2,231,178 2,265,207
Adjustments:     
Seniors Housing Operating:     
Non-cash NOI on same store properties 1,990  1,242 836
NOI attributable to non same store properties (77,334 ) (132,604 ) (251,803 )
Subtotal (75,344 ) (131,362 ) (250,967 )
Triple-net:     
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (28,538 ) (23,764 ) (17,093 )
NOI attributable to non same store properties (709,606 ) (465,820 ) (401,878 )
Subtotal (738,144 ) (489,584 ) (418,971 )
Outpatient Medical:     
Non-cash NOI on same store properties (8,190 ) (7,694 ) (8,226 )
NOI attributable to non same store properties (53,220 ) (58,076 ) (35,619 )
Subtotal (61,410 ) (65,770 ) (43,845 )
Total (874,898 ) (686,716 ) (713,783 )
SSNOI by segment:     
Seniors Housing Operating 738,770  748,664 734,055
Triple-net 470,716  477,500 481,078
Outpatient Medical 318,854  318,298 336,291
Total $ 1,528,340 $ 1,544,462 $ 1,551,424
SSNOI Pr operty Reconciliation:     
Total properties 1,510    
Acquisitions (378)   
Developments (32)   
Disposals/Held-for -sale (55)   
Segment transitions (113)   
Other(1)(8)   
Same store properties 924    
(1) Includes seven land parcels and one loan.
Critical Accounting Policies
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires us to make estimates and
assumptions. Management considers accounting estimates or assumptions critical if:
•the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account
for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change; and
•the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material.
Management has discussed the development and selection of its critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of the
Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosure presented below relating to them. Management believes
the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements are
appropriate and are not reasonably likely to change in the future. However, since these estimates require assumptions to be made
that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made, they bear the risk of change. If actual experience differs from the
assumptions and other considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements, the resulting
changes could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. Please
refer to Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for further information on significant accounting policies that impact us and
for the impact of new accounting standards, including accounting pronouncements that were issued but not yet adopted by us.
The following table presents information about our critical accounting policies, as well as the material assumptions used to
develop each estimate:
57
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Nature of Critical
Accounting EstimateAssumptions/Approach
Used
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include our accounts,
the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, and the
accounts of joint venture entities in which we own a majority
voting interest with the ability to control operations and
where no substantive participating rights or substantive kick
out rights have been granted to the noncontrolling interests. In
addition, we consolidate those entities deemed to be variable
interest entities (“VIEs”) in which we are determined to be
the primary beneficiary. All material intercompany
transactions and balances have been eliminated in
consolidation. 
We make judgments about which entities are VIEs based on an
assessment of whether (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do
not have a controlling financial interest, or (ii) the equity
investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity’s activities
without additional subordinated financial support. We make
judgments with respect to our level of influence or control of an
entity and whether we are (or are not) the primary beneficiary of a
VIE. Consideration of various factors includes, but is not limited
to, our ability to direct the activities that most significantly impact
the entity's economic performance, our form of ownership interest,
our representation on the entity's governing body, the size and
seniority of our investment, our ability and the rights of other
investors to participate in policy making decisions, replace the
manager and/or liquidate the entity, if applicable. Our ability to
correctly assess our influence or control over an entity at inception
of our involvement or on a continuous basis when determining the
primary beneficiary of a VIE affects the presentation of these
entities in our consolidated financial statements. If we perform a
primary beneficiary analysis at a date other than at inception of the
VIE, our assumptions may be different and may result in the
identification of a different primary beneficiary.
Real Estate Acquisitions
On January 1, 2017, we adopted Accounting Standards
Update 2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business
(“ASU 2017-01”) which narrows the Financial Accounting
Standards Board’s (“FASB”) definition of a business and
provides a framework that gives entities a basis for making
reasonable judgments about whether a transaction involves an
asset or a business. ASU 2017-01 states that when
substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired
is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or group of
similar identifiable assets, the acquired asset is not a business.
If this initial test is not met, an acquired asset cannot be
considered a business unless it includes an input and a
substantive process that together significantly contribute to
the ability to create output. The primary differences between
business combinations and asset acquisitions include
recording the asset acquisition at relative fair value,
capitalizing transaction costs, and the elimination of the
measurement period in which to record adjustments to the
transaction. We believe that substantially all our real estate
acquisitions are considered asset acquisitions. We are
applying ASU 2017-01 prospectively for acquisitions after
January 1, 2017. Regardless of whether an acquisition is
considered an asset acquisition or a business combination, the
cost of real property acquired is allocated to net tangible and
identifiable intangible assets based on their respective fair
values. Tangible assets primarily consist of land, buildings,
and improvements. The remaining purchase price is allocated
among identifiable intangible assets primarily consisting of
the above or below market component of in-place leases and
the value of in-place leases. The total amount of other
intangible assets acquired is further allocated to in-place lease
values and customer relationship values based on
management’s evaluation of the specific characteristics of
each tenant’s lease and our overall relationship with that
respective tenant. Real property developed by us is recorded 
We make estimates as part of our allocation of the purchase price
of acquisitions to the various components of the acquisition based
upon the relative fair value of each component. The most
significant components of our allocations are typically the
allocation of fair value to the buildings as-if-vacant, land, and in-
place leases. In the case of the fair value of buildings and the
allocation of value to land and other intangibles, our estimates of
the values of these components will affect the amount of
depreciation and amortization we record over the estimated useful
life of the property acquired or the remaining lease term. In the
case of the value of in-place leases, we make our best estimates
based on our evaluation of the specific characteristics of each
tenant's lease. Factors considered include estimates of carrying
costs during hypothetical expected lease-up periods, market
conditions, and costs to execute similar leases. Our assumptions
affect the amount of future revenue that we will recognize over the
remaining lease term for the acquired in-place leases.
We compute depreciation and amortization on our properties using
the straight-line method based on their estimated useful lives which
range from 15 to 40 years for buildings and five to 15 years for
improvements. Amortization periods for intangibles are based on
the remaining life of the lease or lease-up period.
at cost, including the capitalization of construction period
interest.
58
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Nature of Critical
Accounting EstimateAssumptions/Approach
Used
Allowance for Loan Losses
The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level
believed adequate to absorb potential losses in our loans
receivable. The determination of the allowance is based on a
quarterly evaluation of all outstanding loans. If this evaluation
indicates that there is a greater risk of loan charge-offs,
additional allowances or placement on non-accrual status may
be required. A loan is impaired when, based on current
information and events, it is probable that we will be unable
to collect all amounts due as scheduled according to the
contractual terms of the original loan agreement or if it has
been modified in a troubled debt restructuring. Consistent
with this definition, all loans on non-accrual are deemed
impaired. To the extent circumstances improve and the risk of
collectability is diminished, we will return these loans to
income accrual status. 
The determination of the allowance is based on a quarterly
evaluation of all outstanding loans, including general economic
conditions and estimated collectability of loan payments. We
evaluate the collectability of our loans receivable based on a
combination of factors, including, but not limited to, delinquency
status, historical loan charge-offs, financial strength of the
borrower and guarantors, and value of the underlying collateral.
Any loans with collectability concerns are subjected to a projected
payoff valuation. The valuation is based on the expected future
cash flows and/or the estimated fair value of the underlying
collateral. The valuation is compared to the outstanding balance to
determine the reserve needed for each loan. We may base our
valuation on a loan’s observable market price, if any, or the fair
value of collateral, net of sales costs, if the repayment of the loan is
expected to be provided solely by the collateral.
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is recognized in a manner to depict the transfer of
goods or services to a customer at an amount that reflects the
consideration expected to be received in exchange for those
goods or services. Interest income on loans is recognized as
earned based upon the principal amount outstanding subject
to an evaluation of collectability risk. Substantially all of our
operating leases contain fixed and/or contingent escalating
rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are
generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial
lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental
income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is
generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental
payments due for the period. We recognize resident fees and
services, other than move-in fees, monthly as services are
provided. Lease agreements with residents generally have a
term of one year and are cancelable by the resident with 30
days’ notice. 
We evaluate the collectability of our revenues and related
receivables on an on-going basis. We evaluate collectability based
on assumptions and other considerations including, but not limited
to, the certainty of payment, payment history, the financial strength
of the investment’s underlying operations as measured by cash
flows and payment coverages, the value of the underlying
collateral and guaranties, and current economic conditions.
If our evaluation indicates that collectability is not reasonably
assured, we may place an investment on non-accrual or reserve
against all or a portion of current income as an offset to revenue.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
An impairment charge must be recognized when the carrying
value of a long-lived asset is not recoverable. The carrying
value is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the
undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and
eventual disposition of the asset. If it is determined that a
permanent impairment of a long-lived asset has occurred, the
carrying value of the asset is reduced to its fair value and an
impairment charge is recognized for the difference between
the carrying value and the fair value. 
The net book value of long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly on a
property by property basis to determine if there are indicators of
impairment. These indicators may include anticipated operating
losses at the property level, the tenant’s inability to make rent
payments, a decision to dispose of an asset before the end of its
estimated useful life, and changes in the market that may
permanently reduce the value of the property. If indicators of
impairment exist, then the undiscounted future cash flows from the
most likely uses of the property are compared to the current net
book value. This analysis requires us to determine if indicators of
impairment exist and to estimate the most likely stream of cash
flows to be generated from the property during the period the
property is expected to be held. Properties that meet the held-for-
sale criteria are recorded at the lesser of fair value less costs to sell
or carrying value.
59
Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
We are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign
currency exchange rates. We seek to mitigate the underlying foreign currency exposures with gains and losses on derivative
contracts hedging these exposures. We seek to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new
investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. We may or may not elect to use financial derivative
instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. These decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate
investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our
perception of the future volatility of interest rates. This section is presented to provide a discussion of the risks associated with
potential fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. For more information, see Notes 11 and 16 to our
consolidated financial statements.
We historically borrow on our primary unsecured credit facility to acquire, construct or make loans relating to health care and
seniors housing properties. Then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay the
borrowings under our primary unsecured credit facility and new commercial paper program. We are subject to risks associated with
debt financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of refinancing may not be as
favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. The majority of our borrowings were completed under indentures or contractual
agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. Accordingly, in the event that we are unable to raise additional
equity or borrow money because of these limitations, our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited.
A change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt. Interest rate changes, however,
will affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt. Changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate debt could
have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable
rate debt or equity or repaid by the sale of assets. To illustrate the impact of changes in the interest rate markets, we performed a
sensitivity analysis on our fixed rate debt instruments whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a
hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates to determine the instruments’ change in fair value. The following table summarizes the
analysis performed as of the dates indicated (in thousands):  
 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017
 Principal balance Fair value change Principal balance Fair value change
Senior unsecured notes $ 9,009,159 $ (548,558 )$ 7,710,219 $ (500,951 )
Secured debt 1,639,983 (59,522 ) 1,749,958 (63,492 )
Totals $ 10,649,142 $ (608,080 )$ 9,460,177 $ (564,443 )
 
Our variable rate debt, including our primary unsecured credit facility, is reflected at fair value. At December 31, 2018, we had
$2,683,553,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt. Assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in
interest rates would result in increased annual interest expense of $26,836,000. At December 31, 2017, we had $2,294,678,000
outstanding under our variable rate debt. Assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would have
resulted in increased annual interest expense of $22,947,000.
We are subject to currency fluctuations that may, from time to time, affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Increases or decreases in the value of the Canadian Dollar or British Pounds Sterling relative to the U.S. Dollar impact the amount
of net income we earn from our investments in Canada and the United Kingdom. Based solely on our results for the year ended
December 31, 2018, including the impact of existing hedging arrangements, if these exchange rates were to increase or decrease by
10%, our net income from these investments would increase or decrease, as applicable, by less than $10,000,000. We will continue
to mitigate these underlying foreign currency exposures with non-U.S. denominated borrowings and gains and losses on derivative
contracts. If we increase our international presence through investments in, or acquisitions or development of, seniors housing and
health care properties outside the U.S., we may also decide to transact additional business or borrow funds in currencies other than
U.S. Dollars, Canadian Dollars or British Pounds Sterling. To illustrate the impact of changes in foreign currency markets, we
performed a sensitivity analysis on our derivative portfolio whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a
hypothetical 1% increase in foreign currency exchange rates to determine the instruments’ change in fair value.  The following
table summarizes the results of the analysis performed, excluding cross currency hedge activity (dollars in thousands):
  December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017
  Carrying value  Fair value change Carrying value Fair value change
Foreign currency exchange contracts  $ 23,620  $ 16,163 $ 23,238 $ 12,929
Debt designated as hedges  1,559,159  15,592 1,620,273 16,203
Totals  $ 1,582,779 $ 31,755 $ 1,643,51 1$ 29,132
60
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
The Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Welltower Inc. 
Opinion on the Financial Statements 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Welltower Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of
December 31, 2018 and 2017, the related consolidated statements of comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2018, and the related notes and financial statement schedules listed in the Index at
Item 15(a) (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2018 and 2017 and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2018, in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles. 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States)
(PCAOB), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, based on criteria established in
Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(2013 framework) and our report dated February 25, 2019 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
Basis for Opinion 
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are
required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules
and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error
or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements,
whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test
basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the
financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
/s/  Ernst & Young LLP
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1970.
Toledo, Ohio
February 25, 2019
61
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(in thousands)
  December 31,
2018  December 31,
2017
Assets   
Real estate investments:     
Real property owned:     
Land and land improvements  $ 3,205,091  $ 2,734,467
Buildings and improvements  28,019,502  25,373,1 17
Acquired lease intangibles  1,581,159  1,502,471
Real property held for sale, net of accumulated depreciation  590,271  734,147
Construction in progress  194,365  237,746
Gross real property owned  33,590,388  30,581,948
Less accumulated depreciation and amortization  (5,499,958 ) (4,838,370 )
Net real property owned  28,090,430  25,743,578
Real estate loans receivable  398,71 1 495,871
Less allowance for losses on loans receivable  (68,372 ) (68,372 )
Net real estate loans receivable  330,339  427,499
Net real estate investments  28,420,769  26,171,077
Other assets:   
Investments in unconsolidated entities  482,914  445,585
Goodwill  68,321  68,321
Cash and cash equivalents  215,376  243,777
Restricted cash  100,753  65,526
Straight-line receivable  367,093  389,168
Receivables and other assets  686,846  560,991
Total other assets  1,921,303  1,773,368
Total assets  $ 30,342,072  $ 27,944,445
Liabilities and equity   
Liabilities:   
Borrowings under primary unsecured credit facility  $ 1,147,000  $ 719,000
Senior unsecured notes  9,603,299  8,331,722
Secured debt  2,476,177  2,608,976
Capital lease obligations  70,668  72,238
Accrued expenses and other liabilities  1,034,283  911,863
Total liabilities  14,331,427  12,643,799
Redeemable noncontrolling interests  424,046  375,194
Equity:   
Preferred stock  718,498  718,503
Common stock  384,465  372,449
Capital in excess of par value  18,424,368  17,662,681
Treasury stock  (68,499 ) (64,559 )
Cumulative net income  6,121,534  5,316,580
Cumulative dividends  (10,818,557 ) (9,471,712 )
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)  (129,769 ) (111,465 )
Other equity  294  670
Total Welltower Inc. stockholders’  equity  14,632,334  14,423,147
Noncontrolling interests  954,265  502,305
Total equity  15,586,599  14,925,452
Total liabilities and equity  $ 30,342,072  $ 27,944,445
 
See accompanying notes
62
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(In thousands, except per share data)
 Year Ended December 31,
 2018  2017 2016
Revenues:    
Resident fees and services $ 3,234,852  $ 2,779,423 $ 2,504,731
Rental income 1,380,422  1,445,871 1,648,815
Interest income 55,814  73,81 1 97,963
Other income 29,41 1 17,536 29,651
Total revenues 4,700,499  4,316,641 4,281,160
Expenses:    
Property operating expenses 2,433,017  2,083,925 1,876,983
Depreciation and amortization 950,459  921,720 901,242
Interest expense 526,592  484,622 521,345
General and administrative expenses 126,383  122,008 155,241
Transaction costs — — 42,910
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net (4,016 ) 2,284 (2,448 )
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 16,097  37,241 17,214
Provision for loan losses — 62,966 10,215
Impairment of assets 115,579  124,483 37,207
Other expenses 112,898  177,776 11,998
Total expenses 4,277,009  4,017,025 3,571,907
Income from continuing operations before income taxes and other items 423,490  299,616 709,253
Income tax (expense) benefit (8,674 ) (20,128 ) 19,128
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities (641) (83,125 ) (10,357 )
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 415,575  344,250 364,046
Income from continuing operations 829,750  540,613 1,082,070
Net income 829,750  540,613 1,082,070
Less:  Preferred stock dividends 46,704  49,410 65,406
Less:  Preferred stock redemption char ge — 9,769 —
Less:  Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests(1)24,796  17,839 4,267
Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 758,250  $ 463,595 $ 1,012,397
Average number of common shares outstanding:    
Basic 373,620  367,237 358,275
Diluted 375,250  369,001 360,227
Earnings per share:    
Basic:    
Income from continuing operations $ 2.22  $ 1.47 $ 3.02
Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 2.03  $ 1.26 $ 2.83
Diluted:    
Income from continuing operations $ 2.21  $ 1.47 $ 3.00
Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 2.02  $ 1.26 $ 2.81
(1) Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests
See accompanying notes
63
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (CONTINUED)
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(In thousands)
 Year Ended December 31,
 2018  2017 2016
Net income $ 829,750  $ 540,613 $ 1,082,070
Other comprehensive income (loss):   
Unrecognized gain (loss) on equity investments — — 5,120
Reclassification adjustment for write down of equity
investment — (5,120 ) —
Unrecognized gain (loss) on cash flow hedges — 2 1,414
Unrecognized actuarial gain (loss) 344  269 190
Foreign currency translation gain (loss) (41,632 ) 85,263 (85,557 )
Total other comprehensive income (loss) (41,288 ) 80,414 (78,833 )
Total comprehensive income 788,462  621,027 1,003,237
Less: Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to
noncontrolling interests(1)1,812  40,187 6,722
Total comprehensive income attributable to stockholders $ 786,650  $ 580,840 $ 996,515
(1) Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests.
See accompanying notes
64
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(in thousands)          Accumulated    
     Capital in     Other    
  Preferred  Common Excess of  Treasury Cumulative Cumulative Comprehensive Other Noncontrolling  
  Stock  Stock Par Value  Stock Net Income Dividends Income (Loss) Equity Interests Total
Balances at
December 31, 2015  $1,006,250  $ 354,81 1 $16,478,300  $ (44,372 ) $3,725,772 $(6,846,056 ) $ (88,243 ) $ 4,098 $ 585,325 $15,175,885
Comprehensive
income:       
Net income    1,077,803 9,277 1,087,080
Other
comprehensive
income (loss)     (81,288 ) 2,455 (78,833 )
Total
comprehensive
income      1,008,247
Net change in
noncontrolling
interests   (51,478 )  (121,978 ) (173,456 )
Amounts related to
issuance of common
stock      
from dividend
reinvestment
and stock      
incentive
plans, net of
forfeitures   839 46,938  (10,369 ) (1,305 ) 36,103
Net proceeds from
issuance of common
stock   7,421 525,931    533,352
Option
compensation
expense     266  266
Dividends paid:      
Common
stock
dividends     (1,233,519 )  (1,233,519 )
Preferred
stock
dividends     (65,406 )  (65,406 )
Balances at
December 31, 2016  1,006,250  363,071 16,999,691  (54,741 ) 4,803,575 (8,144,981 ) (169,531 ) 3,059 475,079 15,281,472
Comprehensive
income:       
Net income    522,774 20,819 543,593
Other
comprehensive
income (loss)     58,066 22,348 80,414
Total
comprehensive
income      624,007
Net change in
noncontrolling
interests   13,473   (15,941 ) (2,468 )
Amounts related to
issuance of common
stock       
from dividend
reinvestment
and stock       
incentive
plans, net of
forfeitures   402 21,494  (9,807 ) (2,399 ) 9,690
Net proceeds from
issuance of common
stock   8,881 612,555    621,436
Redemption of
equity membership
units   91 5,465  (11)  5,545
Redemption of
preferred stock  (287,500 ) 9,760  (9,769 )  (287,509 )
Conversion of
preferred stock  (247) 4 243   —
Option
compensation
expense     10 10
Dividends paid:       
Common
stock
dividends     (1,277,321 )  (1,277,321 )
Preferred
stock
dividends     (49,410 )  (49,410 )
Balances at
December 31, 2017  718,503  372,449 17,662,681  (64,559 ) 5,316,580 (9,471,712 ) (111,465 ) 670 502,305 14,925,452
Comprehensive
income:       
Net income    804,954 25,065 830,019
Other
comprehensive
income (loss)     (18,304 ) (22,984 ) (41,288 )
Total
comprehensive
income      788,731
Net change in
noncontrolling
interests   (43,101 )  449,879 406,778
Amounts related to
issuance of common
stock       
from dividend
reinvestment
and stock       
incentive
plans, net of
forfeitures   188 28,277  (3,940 ) (376) 24,149
Net proceeds from
issuance of common
stock   11,828 776,506    788,334
Conversion of
preferred stock  (5) 5   —
Dividends paid:       
Common
stock
dividends     (1,300,141 )  (1,300,141 )
Preferred
stock
dividends     (46,704 )  (46,704 )
Balances at
December 31, 2018  $ 718,498  $ 384,465 $18,424,368  $ (68,499 ) $6,121,534 $(10,818,557 ) $ (129,769 ) $ 294 $ 954,265 $15,586,599
 
See accompanying notes
65
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(in thousands)
  Year Ended December 31,
  2018 2017  2016
Operating activities:     
Net income  $ 829,750 $ 540,613 $ 1,082,070
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided from (used in) operating    
activities:     
Depreciation and amortization  950,459 921,720 901,242
Other amortization expenses  17,000 16,521 8,822
Provision for loan losses  — 62,966 10,215
Impairment of assets  115,579 124,483 37,207
Stock-based compensation expense  27,646 19,102 28,869
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net  (4,016) 2,284 (2,448)
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net  16,097 37,241 17,214
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities  641 83,125 10,357
Rental income in excess of cash received  (32,857) (80,398) (83,233)
Amortization related to above (below) market leases, net  2,608 357 322
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net  (415,575) (344,250) (364,046)
Other (income) expense, net  — 2 (4,853)
Distributions by unconsolidated entities  21 116 1,065
Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses and other liabilities  70,762 26,809 14,298
Decrease (increase) in receivables and other assets  5,829 23,486 (18,037)
Net cash provided from (used in) operating activities  1,583,944 1,434,177 1,639,064
Investing activities:     
Cash disbursed for acquisitions, net of cash acquired  (3,560,360) (805,264) (2,145,374)
Cash disbursed for capital improvements to existing properties  (266,183) (250,276) (219,146)
Cash disbursed for construction in progress  (160,706) (232,715) (403,131)
Capitalized interest  (7,905) (13,489) (16,943)
Investment in real estate loans receivable  (83,048) (83,738) (129,884)
Principal collected on real estate loans receivable  180,830 96,023 249,552
Other investments, net of payments  (50,430) 57,385 4,760
Contributions to unconsolidated entities  (136,854) (114,365) (101,415)
Distributions by unconsolidated entities  90,916 70,287 119,723
Proceeds from (payments on) derivatives  65,399 52,719 108,347
Proceeds from sales of real property  1,541,870 1,378,014 2,350,068
Net cash provided from (used in) investing activities  (2,386,471) 154,581 (183,443)
Financing activities:     
Net increase (decrease) under unsecured credit facilities  428,000 74,000 (190,000)
Proceeds from issuance of senior unsecured notes  2,824,176 7,500 693,560
Payments to extinguish senior unsecured notes  (1,450,000) (5,000) (865,863)
Net proceeds from the issuance of secured debt  45,447 241,772 460,015
Payments on secured debt  (362,841) (1,144,346) (563,759)
Net proceeds from the issuance of common stock  789,575 621,987 534,194
Redemption of preferred stock  — (287,500) —
Payments for deferred financing costs and prepayment penalties  (29,691) (54,333) (22,196)
Contributions by noncontrolling interests(1)  39,207 56,560 148,666
Distributions to noncontrolling interests(1)  (109,871) (87,711) (134,578)
Cash distributions to stockholders  (1,348,863) (1,325,617) (1,298,925)
Other financing activities  (6,771) (10,839) (11,931)
Net cash provided from (used in) financing activities  818,368 (1,913,527) (1,250,817)
Effect of foreign currency translation on cash and cash equivalents and restricted
cash  (9,015) 26,852 (20,274)
Increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash  6,826 (297,917) 184,530
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of period  309,303 607,220 422,690
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of period  $ 316,129 $ 309,303 $ 607,220
Supplemental cash flow information:     
Interest paid  $ 501,404 $ 488,265 $ 541,545
Income taxes paid  2,250 10,410 8,011
(1) Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests.
See accompanying notes.
66
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Business 
Welltower Inc., an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health care infrastructure. 
The company invests with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund the real estate and
infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery models and improve people’s wellness and overall health care experience. 
Welltower™, a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), owns interests in properties concentrated in major, high-growth markets in the
United States (“U.S.”), Canada and the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), consisting of seniors housing and post-acute communities and
outpatient medical properties. 
2. Accounting Policies and Related Matters
Use of Estimates
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements
and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and joint venture (“JV”) entities
that we control, through voting rights or other means. All material intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in
consolidation. At inception of JV transactions, we identify entities for which control is achieved through means other than voting
rights (“variable interest entities” or “VIEs”) and determine which business enterprise is the primary beneficiary of its operations. A
VIE is broadly defined as an entity where either (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a controlling financial
interest, or (ii) the equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity’s activities without additional subordinated financial
support. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary. Accounting Standards
Codification Topic 810, Consolidations (“ASC 810”), requires enterprises to perform a qualitative approach to determining whether
or not a VIE will need to be consolidated. This evaluation is based on an enterprise’s ability to direct and influence the activities of
a VIE that most significantly impact that entity’s economic performance. For investments in JVs, U.S. GAAP may preclude
consolidation by the sole general partner in certain circumstances based on the type of rights held by the limited partner(s).  We
assess the limited partners’ rights and their impact on our consolidation conclusions, and we reassess if there is a change to the
terms or in the exercisability of the rights of the limited partners, the sole general partner increases or decreases its ownership of
limited partnership interests, or there is an increase or decrease in the number of outstanding limited partnership interests. We
similarly evaluate the rights of managing members of limited liability companies.
Revenue Recognition
On January 1, 2018 we adopted Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers
(ASC 606)," which is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model that requires revenue to be recognized in a manner to depict
the transfer of goods or services to a customer at an amount that reflects the consideration expected to be received in exchange for
those goods or services. We adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method.
We have evaluated our various revenue streams to identify whether they would be subject the provisions of ASC 606 and any
differences in timing, measurement or presentation of revenue recognition. A significant source of our revenue is generated through
leasing arrangements, which are specifically excluded from ASC 606. Substantially all of our operating leases contain escalating
rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease
period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded
based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. Leases in our outpatient medical portfolio typically include some
form of operating expense reimbursement by the tenant. Certain payments made to operators are treated as lease incentives and
amortized as a reduction of revenue over the lease term. 
We recognize resident fees and services, other than move-in fees, monthly as services are provided. Lease agreements with
residents generally have a term of one year and are cancelable by the resident with 30 days’ notice. Interest income on loans is
recognized as earned based upon the principal amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of collectability risk. Management
contracts are present in some of our joint venture agreements to provide asset and property management, leasing, marketing and
other services. Under ASC 606, the pattern and timing of recognition of income from these contracts is consistent with the prior
accounting model.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
67
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Restricted Cash
Restricted cash primarily consists of amounts held by lenders to provide future payments for real estate taxes, insurance, tenant
and capital improvements, amounts held in escrow relating to transactions we are entitled to receive over a period of time as
outlined in the escrow agreement and net proceeds from property sales that were executed as tax-deferred dispositions under
Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”) section 1031.
Deferred Loan Expenses
Deferred loan expenses are costs incurred by us in connection with the issuance, assumption and amendments of debt
arrangements. Deferred loan expenses related to debt instruments, excluding the primary unsecured credit facility, are recorded as a
reduction of the related debt liability. Deferred loan expenses related to the primary unsecured credit facility are included in other
assets. We amortize these costs over the term of the debt using the straight-line method, which approximates the effective interest
method.
Investments in Unconsolidated Entities
Investments in entities that we do not consolidate but have the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and
financial policies are reported under the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, our share of the investee’s earnings
or losses is included in our consolidated results of operations. The initial carrying value of investments in unconsolidated entities is
based on the amount paid to purchase the entity interest inclusive of transaction costs. To the extent that our cost basis is different
from the basis reflected at the entity level, the basis difference is generally amortized over the lives of the related assets and
liabilities, and such amortization is included in our share of equity in earnings of the entity. We evaluate our equity method
investments for impairment based upon a comparison of the estimated fair value of the equity method investment to its carrying
value. When we determine a decline in the estimated fair value of such an investment below its carrying value is other-than-
temporary, an impairment is recorded.
Equity Securities
In 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2016-01 "Financial Instruments - Overall: Recognition
and Measurement of Financial Assets and Liabilities," which requires entities to measure their investments at fair value and
recognize any changes in fair value in net income rather than through accumulated other comprehensive income. During the year
ended December 31, 2018, we recognized a gain of $4,016,000 related to our equity securities in loss (gain) on derivatives and
financial instruments, net on the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. There was no adjustment to accumulated other
comprehensive income upon adoption at January 1, 2018 as accumulated losses of $18,294,000 were recognized as other-than-
temporary impairment during the year ended December 31, 2017.
Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests
Certain noncontrolling interests are redeemable at fair value. Accordingly, we record the carrying amount of the noncontrolling
interests at the greater of (i) the initial carrying amount, increased or decreased for the noncontrolling interest’s share of net income
or loss and its share of other comprehensive income or loss, and dividends or (ii) the redemption value. If it is probable that the
interests will be redeemed in the future, we accrete the carrying value to the redemption value over the period until expected
redemption, currently a weighted-average period of approximately one year. In accordance with ASC 810, the redeemable
noncontrolling interests are classified outside of permanent equity, as a mezzanine item, in the balance sheet. At December 31,
2018, the current redemption value of redeemable noncontrolling interests exceeded the carrying value of $424,046,000 by
$18,891,000.
During 2014 and 2015, we entered into DownREIT partnerships which give a real estate seller the ability to exchange its
property on a tax deferred basis for equity membership interests (“OP units”). The OP units may be redeemed any time following
the first anniversary of the date of issuance at the election of the holders for one share of our common stock per unit or, at our
option, cash.
Real Property Owned
On January 1, 2017, we adopted ASU 2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business (“ASU 2017-01”) which narrows the
FASB's definition of a business and provides a framework that gives entities a basis for making reasonable judgments about
whether a transaction involves an asset or a business. ASU 2017-01 states that when substantially all of the fair value of the gross
assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or group of similar identifiable assets, the acquired asset is not a
business. If this initial test is not met, an acquired asset cannot be considered a business unless it includes an input and a substantive
process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create output. The primary differences between business combinations
and asset acquisitions include recording the asset acquisition at relative fair value, capitalizing transaction costs, and the elimination
of the measurement period in which to record adjustments to the transaction. We believe that substantially all our real estate
acquisitions are considered asset acquisitions. We are applying ASU 2017-01 prospectively for acquisitions after January 1, 2017.
Real property developed by us is recorded at cost, including the capitalization of construction period interest. Expenditures for
repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred.
68
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Regardless of whether an acquisition is considered an asset acquisition or a business combination, the cost of real property
acquired, which represents substantially all of the purchase price, is allocated to net tangible and identifiable intangible assets based
on their relative fair values. These properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives which range
from 15 to 40 years for buildings and 5 to 15 years for improvements. Tangible assets primarily consist of land, buildings and
improvements, including those related to capital leases. We consider costs incurred in conjunction with re-leasing properties,
including tenant improvements and lease commissions, to represent the acquisition of productive assets and, accordingly, such costs
are reflected as investment activities in our consolidated statement of cash flows.
The remaining purchase price is allocated among identifiable intangible assets primarily consisting of the above or below market
component of in-place leases and the value associated with the presence of in-place leases. The value allocable to the above or
below market component of the acquired in-place lease is determined based upon the present value (using a discount rate which
reflects the risks associated with the acquired leases) of the difference between (i) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to
the lease over its remaining term, and (ii) management’s estimate of the amounts that would be paid using fair market rates over the
remaining term of the lease. The amounts allocated to above market leases are included in acquired lease intangibles and below
market leases are included in other liabilities in the balance sheet and are amortized to rental income over the remaining terms of
the respective leases or lease-up period.
The total amount of other intangible assets acquired is further allocated to in-place lease values and customer relationship values
for in-place tenants based on management’s evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant’s lease and our overall
relationship with that respective tenant. Characteristics considered by management in allocating these values include the nature and
extent of our existing business relationships with the tenant, growth prospects for developing new business with the tenant, the
tenant’s credit quality and expectations of lease renewals, among other factors. The total amount of other intangible assets acquired
is further allocated to in-place lease values for in-place residents with such value representing (i) value associated with lost revenue
related to tenant reimbursable operating costs that would be incurred in an assumed re-leasing period, and (ii) value associated with
lost rental revenue from existing leases during an assumed re-leasing period. This intangible asset will be amortized over the
remaining life of the lease or the assumed re-leasing period.
The net book value of long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly on a property by property basis to determine if facts and
circumstances suggest that the assets may be impaired or that the depreciable life may need to be changed. We consider external
factors relating to each asset and the existence of a master lease which may link the cash flows of an individual asset to a larger
portfolio of assets leased to the same tenant. If these factors and the projected undiscounted cash flows of the assets over the
remaining depreciation period indicate that the assets will not be recoverable, the carrying value is reduced to the estimated fair
market value. In addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the
seniors housing and health care industries. A downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties
and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us. Additionally, properties that meet the held-for-sale criteria
are recorded at the lessor of fair value less costs to sell or the carrying value.
Capitalization of Construction Period Interest
We capitalize interest costs associated with funds used for the construction of properties owned directly by us. The amount
capitalized is based upon the balance outstanding during the construction period using the rate of interest which approximates our
company-wide cost of financing. Our interest expense reflected in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income has been
reduced by the amounts capitalized.
Gain on Real Estate Dispositions
In 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-05, “Other Income – Gains and Losses from the Derecognition of Nonfinancial Assets
(Subtopic 610-20): Clarifying the Scope of Asset Derecognition Guidance and Accounting for Partial Sales of Nonfinancial
Assets.” The standard clarifies that a financial asset is within the scope of Subtopic 610-20 if it meets the definition of an in
substance nonfinancial asset. The standard also defines the term "in substance nonfinancial asset" and clarifies that an entity should
identify each distinct nonfinancial asset or in substance nonfinancial asset promised to a counterparty and derecognize each asset
when a counterparty obtains control over it. We adopted Subtopic 610-20 using a modified retrospective approach on January 1,
2018 and it did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Prior to the adoption of Subtopic 610-20, we recognized sales of real estate assets only upon the closing of the transaction with
the purchaser. Payments received from purchasers prior to closing were recorded as deposits and classified as other assets on our
consolidated balance sheets. Gains on real estate assets sold were recognized using the full accrual method upon closing when (i)
the collectability of the sales price was reasonably assured, (ii) we were not obligated to perform significant activities after the sale
to earn the profit, (iii) we have received adequate initial investment from the purchaser, and (iv) other profit recognition criteria
have been satisfied. Gains may have been deferred in whole or in part until the sales satisfy the requirements of gain recognition on
sales of real estate.
69
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Real Estate Loans Receivable
Real estate loans receivable consist of mortgage loans and other real estate loans. Interest income on loans is recognized as
earned based upon the principal amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of collectability risks. The loans are primarily
collateralized by a first, second or third mortgage lien, a leasehold mortgage on, or an assignment of the partnership interest in, the
related properties, corporate guaranties and/or personal guaranties.
Allowance for Losses on Loans Receivable
The allowance for losses on loans receivable is maintained at a level believed adequate to absorb potential losses in our loans
receivable. The determination of the allowance is based on a quarterly evaluation of these loans, including general economic
conditions and estimated collectability of loan payments. We evaluate the collectability of our loans receivable based on a
combination of factors, including, but not limited to, delinquency status, historical loan charge-offs, financial strength of the
borrower and guarantors, and value of the underlying collateral. If such factors indicate that there is greater risk of loan charge-offs,
additional allowances or placement on non-accrual status may be required. A loan is impaired when, based on current information
and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due as scheduled according to the contractual terms of the
original loan agreement. Consistent with this definition, all loans on non-accrual are deemed impaired. To the extent circumstances
improve and the risk of collectability is diminished, we will return these loans to income accrual status. While a loan is on non-
accrual status, any cash receipts are applied against the outstanding principal balance. Any loans with collectability concerns are
subjected to a projected payoff valuation. The valuation is based on the expected future cash flows and/or the estimated fair value
of the underlying collateral. The valuation is compared to the outstanding balance to determine the reserve needed for each loan.
We may base our valuation on a loan’s observable market price, if any, or the fair value of collateral, net of sales costs, if the
repayment of the loan is expected to be provided solely by the collateral.
Goodwill
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and is tested for impairment more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that
the asset might be impaired. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying amount, including goodwill, exceeds
the reporting unit’s fair value and the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount of that goodwill. We have not
had any goodwill impairments.
 Fair Value of Derivative Instruments
Derivatives are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities. The valuation of derivative instruments requires
us to make estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments. Fair values of our derivatives are estimated by
pricing models that consider the forward yield curves and discount rates. The fair value of our forward exchange contracts are
estimated by pricing models that consider foreign currency spot rates, forward trade rates and discount rates. Such amounts and the
recognition of such amounts are subject to significant estimates that may change in the future. See Note 11 for additional
information.
Federal Income Tax
We have elected to be treated as a REIT under the applicable provisions of the IRC, commencing with our first taxable year, and
made no provision for U.S. federal income tax purposes prior to our acquisition of our taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRSs”). As a
result of these as well as subsequent acquisitions, we now record income tax expense or benefit with respect to certain of our
entities that are taxed as TRSs under provisions similar to those applicable to regular corporations and not under the REIT
provisions. We account for deferred income taxes using the asset and liability method and recognize deferred tax assets and
liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in our consolidated financial statements or tax
returns. Under this method, we determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial reporting
and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse.
Any increase or decrease in the deferred tax liability that results from a change in circumstances, and that causes a change in our
judgment about expected future tax consequences of events, is included in the tax provision when such changes occur. Deferred
income taxes also reflect the impact of operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. A valuation allowance is provided if we believe
it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. Any increase or decrease in the
valuation allowance that results from a change in circumstances, and that causes a change in our judgment about the realizability of
the related deferred tax asset, is included in the tax provision when such changes occur. See Note 18 for additional information.
Foreign Currency
Certain of our subsidiaries’ functional currencies are the local currencies of their respective countries. We translate the results of
operations of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. Dollars using average rates of exchange in effect during the period, and we translate
balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect at the end of the period. We record resulting currency translation adjustments
in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders’ equity, on our consolidated balance sheets.
70
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number
of shares outstanding for the period adjusted for non-vested shares of restricted stock. The computation of diluted earnings per
share is similar to basic earnings per share, except that the number of shares is increased to include the number of additional
common shares that would have been outstanding if the potentially dilutive common shares had been issued.
Reclassifications
Certain amounts in prior years have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
New Accounting Standards
During the year ended December 31, 2018, we adopted the following additional accounting standard, which did not have a
material impact on our consolidated financial statements:
• In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, "Derivatives and Hedging: Targeted Improvements to Accounting for
Hedging Activities," which expands and refines hedge accounting for both nonfinancial and financial risk components and
aligns the recognition and presentation of the effects of the hedging instrument and the hedged item in the financial
statements. It also includes certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of current guidance related to hedge
accounting. The early adoption of this standard on April 1, 2018, did not result in a cumulative effect adjustment and all
applicable changes for the company were prospectively made. Please refer to Note 11 of the consolidated financial
statements for additional detail on this adoption.
The following ASUs have been issued but not yet adopted:    
• In 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (codified under ASC 842),” which requires lessees to recognize assets
and liabilities on their consolidated balance sheet related to the rights and obligations created by most leases, while
continuing to recognize expenses on their consolidated statements of comprehensive income over the lease term.  It will
also require disclosures designed to give financial statement users information regarding amount, timing, and uncertainty
of cash flows arising from leases. While we are currently evaluating the impact of this adoption, we believe it will likely
have a material impact to our consolidated financial statements for the recognition of certain operating leases as right-of-
use assets and lease liabilities where we are the lessee. Specifically, we believe the impact to our consolidated financial
statements will primarily be attributable to the approximately 139 ground leases and various office and equipment leases
which are currently accounted for under ASC 840, "Leases," as operating leases. Future lease payments under these leases
total $1,138,046,000.
The FASB also issued ASU 2018-20 "Leases (Topic 842) - Narrow-scope Improvements for Lessors" in December 2018,
which provides lessors the ability to make an accounting policy election not to evaluate whether certain sales taxes and
other similar taxes imposed by a governmental authority on a specific lease revenue-producing transaction are the primary
obligation of the lessor as owner of the underlying leased asset. A lessor that makes this election will exclude these taxes
from the measurement of lease revenue and the associated expense. We expect to utilize the practical expedient in ASU
2018-20 as part of our adoption of this guidance.
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-02, lessors are required to separately recognize and measure the lease component of a
contract with a customer utilizing the provisions of ASC 842 and the non-lease components utilizing the provisions of
ASC 606. To separately account for the components, transaction price is allocated based upon the estimated stand-alone
selling prices of the components. Additionally, certain components of a contract which were previously included within
the lease element and recognized in accordance with ASC 840 prior to the adoption of ASC 2016-02 (such as common
area maintenance services, other basic services and executory costs), are recognized as non-lease components subject to
the provisions of ASC 606 subsequent to the adoption of ASC 2016-02. Entities are required to recognize a cumulative
effect adjustment to beginning retained earnings as of the initial application of ASU 2016-02 for changes to amounts
recognized for these certain components for the transition from ASC 840 to ASC 606.
The FASB issued ASU 2018-11, "Leases (Topic 842) Targeted Improvements" in July 2018, which provides lessors with a
practical expedient, allowing them to not separate lease and non-lease components in a contract, and instead to account for
as a single lease component, if certain criteria are met. This practical expedient causes an entity to assess whether a
contract is predominantly lease or service-based and recognize the entire contract under the relevant accounting guidance
(i.e., predominantly lease-based would be accounted for under ASC 842 and predominantly service-based would be
accounted for under ASC 606). Entities that elect to utilize this practical expedient upon initial application of ASC 842 are
required to apply to all new and existing transactions as of the initial application date with a cumulative effect adjustment
to beginning retained earnings for any changes to amounts recognized related to existing transactions. For the year ended
December 31, 2018, we recognized revenue for our Seniors Housing Operating segment in accordance with the provisions
of ASC 840. Upon adoption of ASU 2016-02, we will elect the lessor practical expedient and will recognize the revenue
71
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for our Seniors Housing Operating segment based upon the predominant component, which we have determined to be the
non-lease component, and therefore, will account for these contracts under ASC 606. After the adoption of ASU 2016-02,
we expect the timing and pattern of revenue recognition will be substantially the same as that prior to the adoption of the
standard.
• In 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, “Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.” This standard requires
a new forward-looking “expected loss” model to be used for receivables, held-to-maturity debt, loans, and other
instruments.  ASU 2016-13 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December
15, 2019, and early adoption is permitted for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018. We are currently evaluating
the impact that the standard will have on our consolidated financial statements. 
3. Real Property Acquisitions and Development 
The total purchase price for all properties acquired has been allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets, liabilities
and noncontrolling interests based upon their relative fair values in accordance with our accounting policies. The results of
operations for these acquisitions have been included in our consolidated results of operations since the date of acquisition and are a
component of the appropriate segments.  Transaction costs primarily represent costs incurred with property acquisitions, including
due diligence costs, fees for legal and valuation services, termination of pre-existing relationships computed based on the fair value
of the assets acquired, lease termination fees, and other acquisition-related costs. Effective January 1, 2017, with our adoption of
ASU 2017-01, transaction costs related to asset acquisitions are capitalized as a component of purchase price and all other non-
capitalizable costs are reflected in "Other expenses" on our Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. Acquisitions that
occurred prior to January 1, 2017 were accounted for as business combinations. Certain of our subsidiaries' functional currencies
are the local currencies of their respective countries.
Acquisition of Quality Care Properties
On July 26, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Quality Care Properties Inc. ("QCP"), with QCP shareholders receiving
$20.75 of cash for each share of QCP common stock and all existing QCP debt was repaid upon closing. Prior to the acquisition,
ProMedica Health System ("ProMedica") completed the acquisition of HCR ManorCare. Immediately following the acquisition of
QCP, we formed an 80/20 joint venture with ProMedica to own the real estate associated with the 218 seniors housing properties
leased to ProMedica under a lease agreement with the following key terms: (i) 15-year absolute triple-net master lease with three
five-year renewal options; (ii) initial annual cash rent of $179 million with a year one escalator of 1.375% and 2.75% annual
escalators thereafter; and (iii) full corporate guarantee of ProMedica. Additionally, we acquired 59 seniors housing properties
classified as held for sale and leased to ProMedica under a non-yielding lease, 12 seniors housing properties and one surgery center
classified as held for sale and leased to operators under existing triple-net leases, 14 seniors housing properties leased to operators
under existing triple-net leases and one multi-tenant medical office building leased to various tenants.
We drew on a $1.0 billion term loan facility to fund a portion of the acquisition cash consideration and other related expenses.
The term loan facility matures two years from the closing. In addition to the term loan facility draw, we drew on our unsecured
credit facility described in Note 9, in order to fund the acquisition. The aggregate consideration to acquire the QCP shares and
repay outstanding QCP debt was approximately $3.5 billion.
We concluded that the QCP acquisition met the definition of an asset acquisition under ASU 2017-01, "Clarifying the Definition
of a Business". The following table presents the purchase price calculation and the allocation to assets acquired and liabilities
assumed based upon their relative fair value:
(In thousands)   
Land and land improvements $ 417,983  
Buildings and improvements 2,253,451  
Acquired lease intangibles 12,820  
Real property held for sale 418,297  
Cash and cash equivalents 381,913  
Restricted cash 4,981  
Receivables and other assets 1,354  
 Total assets acquired 3,490,799  
Accrued expenses and other liabilities  (13,199 ) 
 Total liabilities assumed (13,199 ) 
Noncontrolling interests (512,741 ) 
 Net assets acquired $ 2,964,859  
Net assets acquired in the QCP acquisition detailed above are included in the respective segment tables below.
72
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Seniors Housing Operating Activity
Acquisitions of seniors housing operating properties are structured under RIDEA, which is described in Note 18. This structure
results in the inclusion of all resident revenues and related property operating expenses from the operation of these qualified health
care properties in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. The following is a summary of our Seniors Housing
Operating real property investment activity for the periods presented (in thousands):
  Year Ended December 31,
  2018 2017 2016
Land and land improvements   $ 51,440 $ 42,525 $ 164,653
Buildings and improvements   621,731 428,777 1,518,472
Acquired lease intangibles   69,504 63,912 115,643
Receivables and other assets   1,492 3,959 2,462
Total assets acquired(1) 744,167 539,173 1,801,230
Secured debt   (134,752 ) — (63,732 )
Accrued expenses and other liabilities  (18,463 ) (46,301 ) (23,681 )
Total liabilities assumed  (153,215 ) (46,301 ) (87,413 )
Noncontrolling interests  (14,390 ) (4,701 ) (6,007 )
Non-cash acquisition related activity(2)— (67,633 ) (47,065 )
 Cash disbursed for acquisitions  576,562 420,538 1,660,745
Construction in progress additions  82,621 84,874 157,845
Capitalized interest  (3,190 ) (9,106 ) (5,793 )
Foreign currency translation  3,934 (6,830 ) (8,500 )
Cash disbursed for construction in progress  83,365 68,938 143,552
Capital improvements to existing properties  201,001 185,473 138,673
Total cash invested in real property , net of cash acquired   $ 860,928 $ 674,949 $ 1,942,970
(1) Excludes $5,784,000, $6,273,000 and $351,000 of cash and restricted cash acquired during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
(2) For the year ended December 31, 2017, includes $59,665,000 related to the acquisition of assets previously financed as investments in unconsolidated entities
and $6,349,000 related to the acquisition of assets previously financed as real estate loans receivable. For the year ended December 31, 2016, includes $43,372,000
related to the acquisition of assets previously financed as investments in unconsolidated entities.
Triple-net Activity 
The following provides our purchase price allocations and other Triple-net real property investment activity for the periods
presented (in thousands):
   Year Ended December 31,
   2018 2017 2016
Land and land improvements   $ 413,588 $ 33,416 $ 104,754
Buildings and improvements   2,242,884 248,459 418,633
Acquired lease intangibles   9,690 — 2,876
Real property held for sale  396,265 — —
Receivables and other assets   1,354 — 551
 Total assets acquired(1) 3,063,781 281,875 526,814
Accrued expenses and other liabilities  (13,199 ) (21,236 ) (3,384 )
 Total liabilities assumed  (13,199 ) (21,236 ) (3,384 )
Noncontrolling interests  (512,741 ) (7,275 ) (26,771 )
Non-cash acquisition related activity(2) — (54,901 ) (51,733 )
 Cash disbursed for acquisitions  2,537,841 198,463 444,926
Construction in progress additions  55,558 120,797 181,084
Capitalized interest  (2,238 ) (4,713 ) (8,729 )
Foreign currency translation  272 (610) (3,665 )
Cash disbursed for construction in progress  53,592 115,474 168,690
Capital improvements to existing properties  10,046 19,989 32,603
 Total cash invested in real property , net of cash acquired   $ 2,601,479 $ 333,926 $ 646,219
(1) Excludes $386,894,000, $318,000 and $682,000 of cash and restricted cash acquired during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
73
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(2) For the year ended December 31, 2017, $54,901,000 is related to the acquisition of assets previously financed as real estate loans receivable.  For the year ended
December 31, 2016, primarily relates to $45,044,000 for the acquisition of assets previously financed as real estate loans receivable and $6,630,000 previously
financed as equity investments.
Outpatient Medical Activity 
The following is a summary of our Outpatient Medical real property investment activity for the periods presented (in thousands):
  Year Ended December 31,
  2018 2017 2016
Land and land improvements   $ 77,239 $ 40,565 $ 5,738
Buildings and improvements   478,740 159,643 46,056
Acquired lease intangibles   50,813 24,014 4,592
Real property held for sale  22,032 — —
Receivables and other assets   1,185 10 —
Total assets acquired(1) 630,009 224,232 56,386
Secured debt   (169,156 ) (25,708 ) —
Accrued expenses and other liabilities  (14,896 ) (3,181 ) (1,670 )
Total liabilities assumed  (184,052 ) (28,889 ) (1,670 )
Noncontrolling interests  — (9,080 ) —
Non-cash acquisition related activity(2) — — (15,013 )
Cash disbursed for acquisitions  445,957 186,263 39,703
Construction in progress additions  26,565 37,094 113,933
Capitalized interest  (2,477 ) (2,406 ) (3,723 )
Accruals(3) (339) 13,615 (19,321 )
Cash disbursed for construction in progress  23,749 48,303 90,889
Capital improvements to existing properties  55,136 44,814 47,870
Total cash invested in real property , net of cash acquired   $ 524,842 $ 279,380 $ 178,462
(1) Excludes $2,719,000 of unrestricted and restricted cash acquired during the year ended December 31, 2018.
(2) Relates to the acquisition of assets previously financed as real estate loans. Please refer to Note 6 for additional information.
(3) Represents non-cash accruals for amounts to be paid in future periods for properties that converted, off-set by amounts paid in the current period.
Construction Activity 
The following is a summary of the construction projects that were placed into service and began generating revenues during the
periods presented (in thousands):
  Year Ended
  December 31, 2018  December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016
Development projects:     
Seniors Housing Operating  $ 86,931  $ 3,634 $ 18,979
Triple-net  90,055  283,472 46,094
Outpatient Medical  11,358  63,036 108,001
Total development projects  188,344  350,142 173,074
Expansion projects  20,029  10,336 11,363
Total construction in progress conversions  $ 208,373  $ 360,478 $ 184,437
 
At December 31, 2018, future minimum lease payments receivable under operating leases (excluding properties in our Seniors
Housing Operating partnerships and excluding any operating expense reimbursements) are as follows (in thousands):
2019  $ 1,309,186
2020  1,275,683
2021  1,245,61 1
2022  1,222,519
2023  1,171,081
Thereafter  9,359,018
Totals  $ 15,583,098
74
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
4. Real Estate Intangibles 
     The following is a summary of our real estate intangibles, excluding those classified as held for sale, as of the dates indicated
(dollars in thousands):
  December 31, 2018  December 31, 2017
Assets:    
In place lease intangibles  $ 1,410,725  $ 1,352,139
Above market tenant leases  63,935  58,443
Below market ground leases  64,513  58,784
Lease commissions  41,986  33,105
Gross historical cost  1,581,159  1,502,471
Accumulated amortization  (1,197,336 ) (1,125,437 )
Net book value  $ 383,823  $ 377,034
Weighted-average amortization period in years  16.0  15.1
Liabilities:    
Below market tenant leases  $ 81,676  $ 60,430
Above market ground leases  8,540  8,540
Gross historical cost  90,216  68,970
Accumulated amortization  (44,266 ) (39,629 )
Net book value  $ 45,950  $ 29,341
Weighted-average amortization period in years  14.7  20.1
   
  The following is a summary of real estate intangible amortization income (expense) for the periods presented (in thousands):
  Year Ended December 31,
  2018 2017  2016
Rental income related to (above)/below market tenant leases, net  $ (1,269 )$ 875  $ 919
Property operating expenses related to above/(below) market ground leases,
net  (1,339 ) (1,231 ) (1,241 )
Depreciation and amortization related to in place lease intangibles and lease
commissions  (122,515 ) (145,132 ) (132,141 )
     The future estimated aggregate amortization of intangible assets and liabilities is as follows for the periods presented (in
thousands):
  Assets Liabilities
2019  $ 97,199 $ 7,005
2020  62,641 6,475
2021  29,855 5,838
2022  24,270 5,300
2023  20,304 3,440
Thereafter  149,554 17,892
Totals  $ 383,823 $ 45,950
 
5. Dispositions and Assets Held for Sale
We periodically sell properties for various reasons, including favorable market conditions, the exercise of tenant purchase options
or reduction of concentrations (e.g. property type, relationship or geography). At December 31, 2018, 13 seniors housing operating,
40 triple-net and two outpatient medical properties with an aggregate net real estate balance of $590,271,000 were classified as held
for sale. Impairment of assets, as reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, primarily represents the
charges necessary to adjust the carrying values of certain properties to estimated fair values less costs to sell. The following is a
summary of our real property disposition activity for the periods presented (in thousands):
75
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  Year Ended
  December 31, 2018  December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016
Real property dispositions:      
Seniors Housing Operating  $ 36,627  $ 74,832 $ —
Triple-net  835,093  916,689 1,773,614
Outpatient Medical  253,397  19,697 78,786
Total dispositions  1,125,1 17 1,011,218 1,852,400
Gain (loss) on sales of real property , net  415,575  344,250 364,046
Net other assets (liabilities) disposed  1,178  22,546 133,622
Proceeds from real property sales  $ 1,541,870  $ 1,378,014 $ 2,350,068
During the year ended December 31, 2016, we completed two portfolio dispositions of properties leased to Genesis HealthCare
(“Genesis”) for which we received loans in the amount of $74,445,000 for termination fees relating to the properties sold under the
master lease. The related termination fee income has been deferred and will be recognized as the principal balance of the loans are
repaid. At December 31, 2018, $61,994,000 of principal is outstanding on the loans. 
Dispositions and Assets Held for Sale 
Pursuant to our adoption of ASU 2014-08, “Presentation of Financial Statements (Topic 205) and Property, Plant and Equipment
(Topic 360): Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of an Entity” (ASU 2014-08”),
operating results attributable to properties sold subsequent to or classified as held for sale after January 1, 2014 and which do not
meet the definition of discontinued operations are no longer reclassified on our consolidated statements of comprehensive
income. The following represents the activity related to these properties for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended
December 31,
 2018  2017 2016
Revenues:   
Total revenues $ 148,725  $ 275,087 $ 565,450
Expenses:   
Interest expense 294  6,655 52,675
Property operating expenses 81,698  81,182 89,666
Provision for depreciation 16,900  55,294 122,153
Total expenses 98,892  143,131 264,494
Income (loss) from real estate dispositions, net $ 49,833  $ 131,956 $ 300,956
 
6. Real Estate Loans Receivable
The following is a summary of our real estate loans receivable (in thousands):
 December 31,
 2018  2017
Mortgage loans $ 317,443  $ 374,492
Other real estate loans 81,268  121,379
Totals $ 398,71 1 $ 495,871
The following is a summary of our real estate loan activity for the periods presented (in thousands):
76
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017  December 31, 2016
 Seniors
Housing
Operating Triple-net Outpatient
Medical Totals Triple-netOutpatient
Medical Totals Triple-netOutpatient
Medical Totals
Advances on real estate loans
receivable:                
Investments in new loans $11,806 $13,062 $23,421 $48,289 $12,091 $ — $12,091 $ 8,445 $ — $ 8,445
Draws on existing loans — 34,759 — 34,759 71,647 — 71,647 118,788 2,651 121,439
Net cash advances on real
estate loans 11,806 47,822 23,421 83,048 83,738 — 83,738 127,233 2,651 129,884
Receipts on real estate loans
receivable:            
Loan payoffs 15,000 116,161 — 131,161 157,912 60,500 218,412 275,439 27,303 302,742
Principal payments on loans — 49,669 — 49,669 1,219 — 1,219 6,867 — 6,867
Sub-total 15,000 165,830 — 180,830 159,131 60,500 219,631 282,306 27,303 309,609
Less: Non-cash activity(1) — — — — (63,108) (60,500) (123,608) (45,044) (15,013) (60,057)
Net cash receipts on real
estate loans 15,000 165,830 — 180,830 96,023 — 96,023 237,262 12,290 249,552
Net cash advances (receipts) on
real estate loans $(3,194) $(118,008) $23,421 $(97,781)$(12,285)$ — $(12,285) $(110,029)$(9,639) $(119,668)
(1) Triple-net primarily represents acquisitions of assets previously financed as real estate loans. Please see Note 3 for further information. Outpatient Medical
represents a deed in lieu of foreclosure on a previously financed first mortgage property for the year ended December 31, 2017 and acquisition of assets previously
financed as real estate loans for the year ended December 31, 2016.
In 2016, we restructured two triple-net real estate loans with Genesis. The existing loans, with a combined principal balance of
$317,000,000, were scheduled to mature in 2017 and 2018. These loans were restructured into four separate loans effective
October 1, 2016, one of which was repaid during 2017. Each loan had a five year term, a 10% interest rate and 25 basis point
annual escalator. We recorded a loan loss charge in the amount of $6,935,000 on one of the loans as the present value of expected
future cash flows was less than the carrying value of the loan. During 2017, we recorded a provision for loan loss of $62,966,000
relating to three real estate loans receivable from Genesis. During 2018, aggregate principal payments of $85,289,000 were
received on the loans. The allowance for losses on loans receivable totals $68,372,000 and is deemed to be sufficient to absorb
expected losses relating to the loans. Such allowance was based on an estimation of expected future cash flows discounted at the
effective interest rate for each loan. In addition, at December 31, 2018, we had one real estate loan with an outstanding balance of
$2,567,000 on non-accrual status. No provision for loan loss has been recorded for this loan given the underlying collateral value.
The following is a summary of the allowance for losses on loans receivable for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2018  2017 2016
Balance at beginning of year $ 68,372  $ 6,563 $ —
Provision for loan losses(1)— 62,966 6,935
Change in present value — (1,157 ) (372)
Balance at end of  year $ 68,372  $ 68,372 $ 6,563
(1) Excludes direct write down of an impaired loan receivable in 2016. 
The following is a summary of our impaired loans (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2018  2017 2016
Balance of impaired loans at end of  year $ 189,272  $ 282,882 $ 377,549
Allowance for loan losses 68,372  68,372 6,563
Balance of impaired loans not reserved $ 120,900  $ 214,510 $ 370,986
Average impaired loans for the year $ 236,077  $ 330,216 $ 188,775
Interest recognized on impaired loans(1)17,241  27,793 8,707
 (1) Represents cash interest recognized in the period since loans were identified as impaired.
7. Investments in Unconsolidated Entities 
We participate in a number of joint ventures, which generally invest in seniors housing and health care real estate. The results of
operations for these properties have been included in our consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition by the joint
ventures and are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income as income or loss from unconsolidated
entities. The following is a summary of our investments in unconsolidated entities (dollars in thousands):
  Percentage
Ownership(1)December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017
Seniors Housing Operating  10% to 50% $ 344,982 $ 352,430
Triple-net  10% to 49% 34,284 22,856
Outpatient Medical  43% to 50% 103,648 70,299
Total   $ 482,914 $ 445,585
(1) Excludes ownership of in substance real estate.
During the year ended December 31, 2017, we increased our ownership in Sunrise Senior Living Management, Inc. (“Sunrise”)
from 24% to 34%. Sunrise provides comprehensive property management and accounting services with respect to certain of our
seniors housing operating properties that Sunrise operates, for which we pay annual management fees pursuant to long-term
management agreements. Our management agreements with Sunrise have initial terms expiring through December 2032 plus, if
applicable, optional renewal periods ranging from an additional 5 to 15 years depending on the property. The management fees
payable to Sunrise under the management agreements include a fee based on a percentage of revenues generated by the applicable
properties plus, if applicable, positive or negative adjustments based on specified performance targets. For the years ended
December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we recognized fees to Sunrise of $36,378,000, $37,573,000, and $37,751,000, respectively,
which are reflected within property operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. 
At December 31, 2018, the aggregate unamortized basis difference of our joint venture investments of $105,471,000 is primarily
attributable to the difference between the amount for which we purchased our interest in the entity, including transaction costs, and
the historical carrying value of the net assets of the entity. This difference is being amortized over the remaining useful life of the
related assets and included in the reported amount of income from unconsolidated entities.
8. Credit Concentration
We use consolidated net operating income (“NOI”) as our credit concentration metric. See Note 17 for additional information and
reconciliation. The following table summarizes certain information about our credit concentration for the year ended December 31,
2018, excluding our share of NOI in unconsolidated entities (dollars in thousands):
 Number of Total  Percent of
Concentration by relationship:(1)Properties NOI  NOI(2)
Sunrise Senior Living(3)161 $ 335,456  15%
Revera(3)98 154,194  7%
Brookdale Senior Living 102 142,768  6%
Genesis HealthCare 87 137,054  6%
Benchmark Senior Living 48 99,439  4%
Remaining portfolio 1,014 1,398,571  62%
Totals 1,510 $ 2,267,482  100%
(1) Genesis is in our Triple-net segment. Sunrise Senior Living and Revera are in our Seniors Housing Operating segment.  Brookdale Senior Living and Benchmark
Senior Living are in both our Triple-net and Seniors Housing Operating segments.
(2) NOI with our top five relationships comprised 41% of total NOI for the year ending December 31, 2017.
(3) Revera owns a controlling interest in Sunrise Senior Living. For the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized $1,154,025,000 of revenue from properties
managed by Sunrise Senior Living.
9. Borrowings Under Credit Facilities and Related Items
At December 31, 2018, we had a primary unsecured credit facility with a consortium of 31 banks that includes a $3,000,000,000
unsecured revolving credit facility, a $500,000,000 unsecured term credit facility, and a $250,000,000 Canadian-denominated
unsecured term credit facility. We have an option, through an accordion feature, to upsize the unsecured revolving credit facility
and the $500,000,000 unsecured term credit facility by up to an additional $1,000,000,000, in the aggregate, and the $250,000,000
Canadian-denominated unsecured term credit facility by up to an additional $250,000,000. The primary unsecured credit facility
also allows us to borrow up to $1,000,000,000 in alternate currencies (none outstanding at December 31, 2018). Borrowings under
the unsecured revolving credit facility are subject to interest payable at the applicable margin over LIBOR interest rate (3.33% at
December 31, 2018). The applicable margin is based on our debt ratings and was 0.825% at December 31, 2018. In addition, we
pay a facility fee quarterly to each bank based on the bank’s commitment amount. The facility fee depends on our debt ratings and
77
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
was 0.15% at December 31, 2018. The term credit facilities mature on July 19, 2023. The revolving credit facility is scheduled to
mature on July 19, 2022 and can be extended for two successive terms of six months each at our option.
The following information relates to aggregate borrowings under the primary unsecured revolving credit facility for the periods
presented (dollars in thousands):
  Year Ended December 31,
  2018 2017  2016
Balance outstanding at year end  $ 1,147,000 $ 719,000  $ 645,000
Maximum amount outstanding at any month end  $ 2,148,000 $ 1,010,000  $ 1,560,000
Average amount outstanding (total of daily principal balances    
divided by days in period)  $ 950,581 $ 597,422  $ 762,896
Weighted-average interest rate (actual interest expense divided    
by average borrowings outstanding)  3.07% 2.02% 1.39%
 
10. Senior Unsecured Notes and Secured Debt
We may repurchase, redeem or refinance senior unsecured notes from time to time, taking advantage of favorable market
conditions when available. We may purchase senior notes for cash through open market purchases, privately negotiated
transactions, a tender offer or, in some cases, through the early redemption of such securities pursuant to their terms. The senior
unsecured notes are redeemable at our option, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at a redemption price equal to the
sum of (1) the principal amount of the notes (or portion of such notes) being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon up
to the redemption date and (2) any “make-whole” amount due under the terms of the notes in connection with early
redemptions. Redemptions and repurchases of debt, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements,
contractual restrictions, and other factors. At December 31, 2018, the annual principal payments due on these debt obligations were
as follows (in thousands):
 Senior
Unsecured Notes(1,2) Secured
Debt (1,3) Totals
2019 $ 600,000  $ 508,899  $ 1,108,899
2020(4)677,489  138,288  815,777
2021 450,000  369,124  819,124
2022 600,000  280,418  880,418
2023(5,6)1,783,325  325,371  2,108,696
Thereafter(7,8)5,589,170  863,61 1 6,452,781
Totals $ 9,699,984  $ 2,485,71 1 $ 12,185,695
(1) Amounts represent principal amounts due and do not include unamortized premiums/discounts, debt issuance costs, or other fair value adjustments as reflected
on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
(2) Annual interest rates range from 3.05% to 6.50%.
(3) Annual interest rates range from 1.69% to 12.00%. Carrying value of the properties securing the debt totaled $5,347,428,000 at December 31, 2018.
(4) Includes a $300,000,000 Canadian-denominated 3.35% senior unsecured notes due 2020 (approximately $219,989,000 based on the Canadian/U.S. Dollar
exchange rate on December 31, 2018).
(5) Includes a $250,000,000 Canadian-denominated unsecured term credit facility (approximately $183,325,000 based on the Canadian/U.S. Dollar exchange rate on
December 31, 2018). The loan matures on July 19, 2023 and bears interest at the Canadian Dealer Offered Rate plus 0.9% (3.15% at December 31, 2018).
(6) Includes a $500,000,000 unsecured term credit facility. The loan matures on July 19, 2023 and bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.9% (3.37% at December 31,
2018).
(7) Includes a £550,000,000 4.80% senior unsecured notes due 2028 (approximately $701,470,000 based on the Pounds Sterling/U.S. Dollar exchange rate in effect
on December 31, 2018).
(8) Includes a £500,000,000 4.50% senior unsecured notes due 2034 (approximately $637,700,000 based on the Pounds Sterling/U.S. Dollar exchange rate in effect
on December 31, 2018).
The following is a summary of our senior unsecured note principal activity during the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
  Year Ended
  December 31, 2018  December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016
    Weighted Avg.   Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.
  Amount  Interest Rate  Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate
Beginning
balance  $ 8,417,447  4.31%  $ 8,260,038 4.25% $ 8,645,758 4.24%
Debt issued  2,850,000  4.57%  7,500 1.97% 705,000 4.23%
Debt
extinguished  (1,450,000 ) 3.46%  (5,000 ) 1.83% (850,000 ) 4.19%
Foreign currency  (117,463 ) 4.16%  154,909 4.29% (240,720 ) 4.57%
Ending balance  $ 9,699,984  4.48%  $ 8,417,447 4.31% $ 8,260,038 4.25%
 
78
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following is a summary of our secured debt principal activity for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016
  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.
 Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate
Beginning balance $ 2,618,408 3.76% $ 3,465,066 4.09% $ 3,478,207 4.44%
Debt issued 45,447 3.40% 241,772 2.82% 460,015 2.65%
Debt assumed 292,887 4.64% 23,094 6.67% 60,898 4.30%
Debt extinguished (306,553 ) 5.36% (1,080,268 ) 5.25% (489,293 ) 5.11%
Debt deconsolidated — —% (60,000 ) 3.80% — —%
Principal payments (56,288 ) 3.91% (64,078 ) 4.34% (74,466 ) 4.66%
Foreign currency (108,190 ) 3.33% 92,822 3.16% 29,705 3.67%
Ending balance $ 2,485,71 1 3.90% $ 2,618,408 3.76% $ 3,465,066 4.09%
Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Certain agreements require us to maintain
certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make
investments or acquisitions. As of December 31, 2018, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under our debt agreements.
11. Derivative Instruments
We are exposed to, among other risks, the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our non-U.S.
investments. Our risk management program is designed to manage the exposure and volatility arising from these risks, and utilizes
derivative financial instruments and debt issued in foreign currencies to offset a portion of these risks.
Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Designated as Cash Flow Hedges
For instruments that are designated as and qualify as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative
is deferred as a component of other comprehensive income (“OCI”), and reclassified into earnings in the same period, or periods,
during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness
or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in earnings. 
Foreign Currency Forward Contracts and Cross Currency Swap Contracts Designated as Net Investment Hedges
We use foreign currency forward and cross currency forward swap contracts to hedge a portion of the net investment in foreign
subsidiaries against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. For instruments that are designated and qualify as net investment
hedges, the variability in the foreign currency to U.S. Dollar of the instrument is recorded as a cumulative translation adjustment
component of OCI. 
In the second quarter of 2018, we redesignated these derivative financial instruments that qualify as hedges of net investments in
foreign operations using the spot method in order to more closely align the underlying economics of the hedged transactions. The
changes in fair values and the excluded components of derivative instruments designated as net investment hedges are recognized
as a cumulative translation adjustment component of OCI. The cross currency basis spread is recognized in interest expense on the
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income using the swap accrual process. Prior to the adoption of ASU 2017-12, all
settlements and changes in the fair values of these instruments were recognized as a cumulative translation adjustment component
of OCI and there had been no ineffectiveness on these hedging relationships.
During the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, we settled certain net investment hedges generating cash proceeds of
$70,897,000 and $52,719,000, respectively.  The balance of the cumulative translation adjustment will be reclassified to earnings
when the hedged investment is sold or substantially liquidated.
Derivative Contracts Undesignated
We use foreign currency exchange contracts to manage existing exposures to foreign currency exchange risk. Gains and losses
resulting from changes in the fair value of these instruments are recorded in interest expense on the Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income, and are substantially offset by net revaluation impacts on foreign currency denominated balance sheet
exposures. In addition, we have several interest rate cap contracts related to variable rate secured debt agreements. Gains and losses
resulting from the changes in the fair values of these instruments are also recorded in interest expense.
The following presents the notional amount of derivatives and other financial instruments as of the dates indicated (in
thousands):
79
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017
Derivatives designated as net investment hedges:   
Denominated in Canadian Dollars $ 575,000 $ 575,000
Denominated in Pounds Sterling £ 890,708 £ 550,000
Financial instruments designated as net investment hedges:   
Denominated in Canadian Dollars $ 250,000 $ 250,000
Denominated in Pounds Sterling £ 1,050,000 £ 1,050,000
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges:   
Denominated in Canadian Dollars $ — $ 36,000
Derivative instruments not designated:   
Interest rate caps denominated in U.S. Dollars $ 405,819 $ 408,007
Forward purchase contracts denominated in Canadian Dollars $ (325,000 )$ —
Forward sales contracts denominated in Canadian Dollars $ 405,000 $ 80,000
Forward purchase contracts denominated in Pounds Sterling £ (350,000 )£ —
Forward sales contracts denominated in Pounds Sterling £ 350,000 £ —
The following presents the impact of derivative instruments on the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the
periods presented (in thousands):
  Year Ended
 Location December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016
Gain (loss) on derivative instruments designated as
hedges recognized in income Interest expense $ 12,271 $ (2,476) $ 7,871
Gain (loss) on derivative instruments not designated
as hedges recognized in income Interest expense $ 5,233 $ (49) $ 673
Gain on release of cumulative translation adjustment
related to ineffectiveness on net investment hedge Loss (gain) on derivatives, net $ — $ — $ (2,516)
Gain (loss) on foreign exchange contracts and term
loans designated as net investment hedge recognized
in OCI OCI $ 211,390 $ (252,168) $ 357,021
12. Commitments and Contingencies
At December 31, 2018, we had 14 outstanding letter of credit obligations totaling $50,805,000 and expiring between 2019 and
2024. At December 31, 2018, we had outstanding construction in process of $194,365,000 for leased properties and were
committed to providing additional funds of approximately $436,984,000 to complete construction. Purchase obligations at
December 31, 2018, include $1,250,000,000 representing a definitive agreement to acquire outpatient medical facilities in 2019.
Purchase obligations also include contingent purchase obligations totaling $17,309,000. These contingent purchase obligations
relate to unfunded capital improvement obligations and contingent obligations on acquisitions. Rents due from the tenant are
increased to reflect the additional investment in the property. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we finalized an agreement
with the University of Toledo Foundation to transfer our corporate headquarters as a gift and recognized an expense of
$40,730,000.
We evaluate our leases for operating versus capital lease treatment in accordance with ASC 840. A lease is classified as a capital
lease if it provides for transfer of ownership of the leased asset at the end of the lease term, contains a bargain purchase option, has
a lease term greater than 75% of the economic life of the leased asset, or if the net present value of the future minimum lease
payments are in excess of 90% of the fair value of the leased asset. Certain leases contain bargain purchase options and have been
classified as capital leases. At December 31, 2018, we had operating lease obligations of $1,138,046,000 relating to certain ground
leases and company office space. Regarding the ground leases, we have sublease agreements with certain of our operators that
require the operators to reimburse us for our monthly operating lease obligations. At December 31, 2018, aggregate future
minimum rentals to be received under these noncancelable subleases totaled $72,789,000.
At December 31, 2018, future minimum lease payments due under operating and capital leases are as follows (in thousands):
80
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Operating Leases  Capital Leases(1)
2019 $ 18,242  $ 4,173
2020 17,785  4,173
2021 17,607  4,173
2022 16,961  4,173
2023 17,004  67,573
Thereafter 1,050,447  —
Totals $ 1,138,046  $ 84,265
(1) Amounts above represent principal and interest obligations under capital lease arrangements. Related assets with a gross value of $167,324,000 and accumulated
depreciation of $33,676,000 are recorded in real property.
13. Stockholders’ Equity 
The following is a summary of our stockholders’ equity capital accounts as of the dates indicated:
  December 31, 2018  December 31, 2017
Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value:     
Authorized shares  50,000,000  50,000,000
Issued shares  14,375,000  14,375,000
Outstanding shares  14,369,965  14,370,060
Common Stock, $1.00 par value:     
Authorized shares  700,000,000  700,000,000
Issued shares  384,849,236  372,852,31 1
Outstanding shares  383,674,603  371,731,551
Preferred Stock.  The following is a summary of our preferred stock activity during the periods presented:
  Year Ended
  December 31, 2018  December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016
   Weighted Avg.    Weighted Avg.   Weighted Avg.
  Shares Dividend Rate  Shares  Dividend Rate Shares  Dividend Rate
Beginning balance  14,370,060 6.50%  25,875,000  6.50% 25,875,000  6.50%
Shares redeemed  — —%  (11,500,000 ) 6.50% — —%
Shares converted  (95) 6.50%  (4,940 ) 6.50% — —%
Ending balance  14,369,965 6.50%  14,370,060  6.50% 25,875,000  6.50%
During the three months ended March 31, 2011, we issued 14,375,000 of 6.50% Series I Cumulative Convertible Perpetual
Preferred Stock (the "Series I Preferred Stock"). These shares have a liquidation value of $50.00 per share. Dividends are payable
quarterly in arrears. The Series I Preferred Stock is not redeemable by us and are convertible, at the holder’s option, into 0.8460
shares of common stock (equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $59.10). On or after April 30, 2018, we may at our
option cause all outstanding shares of the Series I Preferred Stock to be automatically converted into a number of shares of
common stock equal to the then-prevailing conversion rate if the daily volume-weighted average prices of our common stock for
each day equals or exceeds 130% of the then-prevailing conversion price for at least 20 trading days in a period of 30 consecutive
trading days.
During the three months ended March 31, 2012, we issued 11,500,000 of 6.50% Series J Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
Stock. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized a charge of $9,769,000 in connection with the redemption of the
Series J preferred stock.
Common Stock. The following is a summary of our common stock activity during the periods indicated (dollars in thousands,
except average price amounts):
81
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  Shares IssuedAverage
Price  Gross Proceeds  Net Proceeds
2016 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances  4,145,457 $70.40  $ 291,852  $ 291,571
2016 Option exercises  141,405 47.13  6,664  6,664
2016 Equity Shelf Program issuances  3,134,901 76.01  238,286  235,959
2016 Stock incentive plans, net of forfeitures  402,740  — —
2016 Totals  7,824,503  $ 536,802  $ 534,194
2017 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances  5,640,008 $70.13  $ 395,526  $ 394,639
2017 Option exercises  252,979 51.16  12,942  12,942
2017 Equity Shelf Program issuances  2,986,574 72.30  215,917  214,406
2017 Preferred stock conversions  4,300  — —
2017 Redemption of equity membership units  91,180  — —
2017 Stock incentive plans, net of forfeitures  154,337  — —
2017 Totals  9,129,378  $ 624,385  $ 621,987
2018 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances  6,529,417 $65.55  $ 428,009  $ 423,075
2018 Option exercises  56,960 42.66  2,430  2,430
2018 Equity Shelf Program issuances  5,241,349 69.95  366,640  364,070
2018 Preferred stock conversions  83  — —
2018 Stock incentive plans, net of forfeitures  115,243  — —
2018 Totals  11,943,052  $ 797,079  $ 789,575
Dividends.  The increase in dividends is primarily attributable to increases in our common shares outstanding, offset by the
redemption of the Series J preferred stock, as described above. Please refer to Note 18 for information related to federal income tax
of dividends. The following is a summary of our dividend payments (in thousands, except per share amounts):
  Year Ended
  December 31, 2018  December 31, 2017  December 31, 2016
   Per Share  Amount  Per Share  Amount  Per Share Amount
Common Stock  $ 3.4800  $ 1,300,141  $ 3.4800  $ 1,277,321  $ 3.4400 $ 1,233,519
Series I Preferred Stock  3.2500  46,704  3.2500  46,71 1 3.2500 46,719
Series J Preferred Stock  — — 0.2347  2,699  1.6251 18,687
Totals   $ 1,346,845   $ 1,326,731   $ 1,298,925
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. The following is a summary of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) for
the periods presented (in thousands):
  Unrecognized gains (losses) related to:  
  Foreign
Currency
Translation  Available for
Sale Securities  Actuarial
lossesCash Flow
Hedges Total
Balance at December 31, 2017  $ (110,581 ) $ — $ (884)$ — $ (111,465 )
Other comprehensive income (loss)  (18,648 ) — 344 — (18,304 )
Net current-period other comprehensive income (loss)  (18,648 ) — 344 — (18,304 )
Balance at December 31, 2018  $ (129,229 ) $ — $ (540)$ — $ (129,769 )
Balance at December 31, 2016  $ (173,496 ) $ 5,120  $ (1,153 )$ (2)$ (169,531 )
Other comprehensive income (loss) before
reclassification adjustments  62,915  — 269 2 63,186
Reclassification adjustment for write down of equity
investment  — (5,120 ) — — (5,120 )
Net current-period other comprehensive income (loss)  62,915  (5,120 ) 269 2 58,066
Balance at December 31, 2017  $ (110,581 ) $ — $ (884)$ — $ (111,465 )
82
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
14. Stock Incentive Plans
In May 2016, our shareholders approved the 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan (“2016 Plan”), which authorizes up to 10,000,000
shares of common stock to be issued at the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. Awards granted
after May 5, 2016 are issued out of the 2016 Plan. The awards granted under the Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive
Plan continue to vest and options expire ten years from the date of grant. Our non-employee directors, officers and key employees
are eligible to participate in the 2016 Plan. The 2016 Plan allows for the issuance of, among other things, stock options, stock
appreciation rights, restricted stock, deferred stock units, and dividend equivalent rights. Vesting periods for options, deferred stock
units, and restricted shares generally range from three to five years.
Under our long-term incentive plan, certain restricted stock awards are market, performance and time-based. For market and
performance based awards, we will grant a target number of restricted stock units, with the ultimate award determined by the total
shareholder return and operating performance metrics, measured in each case over a measurement period of two to three
years. Generally awards vest over two to three years after the end of the performance period with a portion vesting immediately at
the end of the performance periods. The expected term represents the period from the grant date to the end of the performance
period. Compensation expense for these performance grants is measured based on the probability of achievement of certain
performance goals and is recognized over both the performance period and vesting period. For the portion of the grant for which
the award is determined by the operating performance metrics, the compensation cost is based on the grant date closing price and
management’s estimate of corporate achievement of the financial metrics. If the estimated number of performance based restricted
stock to be earned changes, an adjustment will be recorded to recognize the accumulated difference between the revised and
previous estimates. For the portion of the grant determined by the total shareholder return, management used a Monte Carlo model
to assess the fair value and compensation cost. Forfeitures are accounted for as they occur.
The following table summarizes compensation expense (a component of general and administrative expenses and property
operating expenses) recognized for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2018  2017 2016
Stock options $ — $ 10 $ 266
Restricted stock 27,646  19,092 28,603
 $ 27,646  $ 19,102 $ 28,869
Restricted Stock
The fair value of the restricted stock is equal to the market price of the company’s common stock on the date of grant and is
amortized over the vesting periods. As of December 31, 2018, there was $35,834,000 of total unrecognized compensation expense
related to unvested restricted stock that is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of two years. The following
table summarizes information about non-vested restricted stock incentive awards as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018: 
 Restricted Stock
 Number of
Shares
(000's)  Weighted-A verage
Grant Date
Fair Value
Non-vested at December 31, 2017 698  $ 61.00
Vested (166) 63.88
Granted 723  54.16
Terminated (35) 60.90
Non-vested at December 31, 2018 1,220  $ 62.56
 
83
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
15. Earnings Per Share
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share (in thousands, except per share data):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2018  2017 2016
Numerator for basic and diluted earnings per share -    
net income attributable to common stockholders $ 758,250  $ 463,595 $ 1,012,397
Denominator for basic earnings per    
share: weighted-average shares 373,620  367,237 358,275
Effect of dilutive securities:    
Employee stock options 9 47 110
Non-vested restricted shares 512  482 449
Redeemable shares 1,096  1,235 1,393
Employee stock purchase program 13 — —
Dilutive potential common shares 1,630  1,764 1,952
Denominator for diluted earnings per    
share: adjusted-weighted average shares 375,250  369,001 360,227
Basic earnings per share $ 2.03  $ 1.26 $ 2.83
Diluted earnings per share $ 2.02  $ 1.26 $ 2.81
The Series I Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock were excluded from the calculations as the effect of the
conversions were anti-dilutive.
16. Disclosure about Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the
principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the
measurement date. A three-level valuation hierarchy exists for disclosures of fair value measurements based upon the transparency
of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date. A financial instrument's categorization within the
valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The three levels are
defined below:
• Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
• Level 2 - Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in
markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for
substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. 
• Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of
the assets or liabilities. 
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instruments for which it is
practicable to estimate that value: 
Mortgage Loans and Other Real Estate Loans Receivable — The carrying value of mortgage loans and other real estate loans
receivable is net of related reserves. The fair value is generally estimated by using Level 2 and Level 3 inputs such as discounting
the estimated future cash flows using the current rates at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit
ratings and for the same remaining maturities. 
Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash — The carrying amount approximates fair value. 
Equity Securities — Equity securities are recorded at their fair value based on Level 1 publicly available trading prices. 
Borrowings Under Primary Unsecured Credit Facility — The carrying amount of the primary unsecured credit facility
approximates fair value because the borrowings are interest rate adjustable. 
Senior Unsecured Notes — The fair value of the senior unsecured notes payable was estimated based on Level 1 publicly available
trading prices. The carrying amount of the variable rate senior unsecured notes approximates fair value because they are interest
rate adjustable. 
Secured Debt — The fair value of fixed rate secured debt is estimated using Level 2 inputs by discounting the estimated future cash
flows using the current rates at which similar loans would be made with similar credit ratings and for the same remaining
84
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
maturities. The carrying amount of variable rate secured debt approximates fair value because the borrowings are interest rate
adjustable. 
Foreign Currency Forward Contracts and Cross Currency Swaps — Foreign currency forward contracts and cross currency swaps
are recorded in other assets or other liabilities on the balance sheet at fair market value. Fair market value is determined using Level
2 inputs by estimating the future value of the currency pair based on existing exchange rates, comprised of current spot and traded
forward points, and calculating a present value of the net amount using a discount factor based on observable traded interest rates. 
Redeemable OP Unitholder Interests — Our redeemable OP unitholder interests are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value
using Level 2 inputs. The fair value is measured using the closing price of our common stock, as units may be redeemed at the
election of the holder for cash or, at our option, one share of our common stock per unit, subject to adjustment in certain
circumstances. 
The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of our financial instruments are as follows as of the dates presented (in
thousands):
 December 31, 2018  December 31, 2017
 Carrying Fair  Carrying Fair
 Amount Value  Amount Value
Financial assets:      
Mortgage loans receivable $ 249,071 $ 257,337  $ 306,120 $ 332,508
Other real estate loans receivable 81,268 82,742  121,379 125,480
Equity securities 11,286 11,286  7,269 7,269
Cash and cash equivalents 215,376 215,376  243,777 243,777
Restricted cash 100,753 100,753  65,526 65,526
Foreign currency forward contracts and cross currency
swaps 94,729 94,729  15,604 15,604
Financial liabilities:    
Borrowings under unsecured credit facilities $ 1,147,000 $ 1,147,000  $ 719,000 $ 719,000
Senior unsecured notes 9,603,299 10,043,797  8,331,722 9,168,432
Secured debt 2,476,177 2,499,130  2,608,976 2,641,997
Foreign currency forward contracts and cross currency
swaps 71,109 71,109  38,654 38,654
Redeemable OP  unitholder interests $ 103,071 $ 103,071  $ 97,476 $ 97,476
Items Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis 
The market approach is utilized to measure fair value for our financial assets and liabilities reported at fair value on a recurring
basis. The market approach uses prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or
comparable assets or liabilities. The following summarizes items measured at fair value on a recurring basis (in thousands):
  Fair Value Measurements as of December 31, 2018
  Total  Level 1  Level 2 Level 3
Equity securities  $ 11,286  $ 11,286  $ — $ —
Foreign currency forward contracts and cross currency
swaps, net asset (liability)(1) 23,620  — 23,620 —
Redeemable OP  unitholder interests  103,071  — 103,071 —
Totals  $ 137,977  $ 11,286  $ 126,691 $ —
(1) Please see Note 11 for additional information.
Items Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis 
In addition to items that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, we have assets and liabilities that are measured at fair
value on a nonrecurring basis that are not included in the tables above. Assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interests that are
measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include those acquired or assumed. Asset impairments (if applicable, see Note 5 for
impairments of real property and Note 6 for impairments of real estate loans receivable) are also measured at fair value on a
nonrecurring basis. We have determined that the fair value measurements included in each of these assets and liabilities rely
primarily on company-specific inputs and our assumptions about the use of the assets and settlement of liabilities, as observable
85
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
inputs are not available. As such, we have determined that each of these fair value measurements generally resides within Level 3
of the fair value hierarchy. We estimate the fair value of real estate and related intangibles using the income approach using
unobservable data such as net operating income, estimated capitalization and discount rates.  We also consider local and national
industry market data including comparable sales, and commonly engage an external real estate appraiser to assist us in our
estimation of fair value. We estimate the fair value of assets held for sale based on current sales price expectations or, in the absence
of such price expectations, Level 3 inputs described above. We estimate the fair value of loans receivable using projected payoff
valuations based on the expected future cash flows and/or the estimated fair value of collateral, net of sales costs, if the repayment
of the loan is expected to be provided solely by the collateral. We estimate the fair value of secured debt assumed in business
combinations and asset acquisitions using current interest rates at which similar borrowings could be obtained on the transaction
date. 
17. Segment Reporting
We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate. We evaluate our business and make resource allocations on our three
operating segments: Seniors Housing Operating, Triple-net and Outpatient Medical.  Our seniors housing operating properties
include assisted living, independent living/continuing care retirement communities, independent support living (Canada), care
homes with and without nursing (U.K.), and combinations thereof that are owned and/or operated through RIDEA structures (see
Note 18). Our triple-net properties include the property types described above as well as long-term/post-acute care. Under the
Triple-net segment, we invest in seniors housing and health care real estate through acquisition and financing of primarily single
tenant properties. Properties acquired are primarily leased under triple-net leases and we are not involved in the management of the
property. Our outpatient medical properties include outpatient medical buildings which are typically leased to multiple tenants and
generally require a certain level of property management by us.
We evaluate performance based upon NOI of each segment. We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements,
less property operating expenses. We believe NOI provides investors relevant and useful information because it measures the
operating performance of our properties at the property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI to make decisions about
resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our properties.
Non-segment revenue consists mainly of interest income on certain non-real estate investments and other income. Non-segment
assets consist of corporate assets including cash, deferred loan expenses and corporate offices and equipment among others. Non-
property specific revenues and expenses are not allocated to individual segments in determining NOI.
The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies (see
Note 2). The results of operations for all acquisitions described in Note 3 are included in our consolidated results of operations from
the acquisition dates and are components of the appropriate segments. There are no intersegment sales or transfers.
Summary information for the reportable segments (which excludes unconsolidated entities) during the years ended December 31,
2018, 2017 and 2016 is as follows (in thousands):
86
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Year Ended December 31, 2018:  Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-netOutpatient
Medical  Non-segment /
Corporate  Total
Resident fees and services  $ 3,234,852 $ — $ — $ — $ 3,234,852
Rental income  — 828,865 551,557  — 1,380,422
Interest income  578 54,926 310  — 55,814
Other income  5,024 17,173 4,939  2,275  29,41 1
Total revenues  3,240,454 900,964 556,806  2,275  4,700,499
    
Property operating expenses  2,255,432 915 176,670  — 2,433,017
Consolidated net operating income  985,022 900,049 380,136  2,275  2,267,482
    
Depreciation and amortization  529,449 235,480 185,530  — 950,459
Interest expense  69,060 14,225 7,051  436,256  526,592
General and administrative  — — — 126,383  126,383
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial
instruments, net  — (4,016 ) — — (4,016 )
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net  110 (32) 11,928  4,091  16,097
Impairment of assets  7,599 107,980 — — 115,579
Other expenses  6,624 90,975(1) 7,570  7,729  112,898
Income (loss) from continuing operations
before income taxes and other items  372,180 455,437 168,057  (572,184 ) 423,490
Income tax benefit (expense)  1,202 1,611 (125) (11,362 ) (8,674 )
(Loss) income from unconsolidated entities  (28,142 ) 21,938 5,563  — (641)
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net  (2,245 ) 196,589 221,231  — 415,575
Income (loss) from continuing operations  342,995 675,575 394,726  (583,546 ) 829,750
Net income (loss)  $ 342,995 $ 675,575 $ 394,726  $ (583,546 ) $ 829,750
    
Total assets  $14,607,127 $ 10,111,227 $ 5,426,810  $ 196,908  $30,342,072
(1) Represents non-capitalizable transaction costs of $81,116,000  primar ily related to a joint venture transaction with an existing seniors housing
operator including the conversion of properties from Triple-net to Seniors Housing Operating and termination/restructuring of pre-existing
relationships.
87
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Year Ended December 31, 2017:Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-net  Outpatient
MedicalNon-segment /
Corporate Total
Resident fees and services $ 2,779,423 $ — $ — $ — $ 2,779,423
Rental income — 885,81 1 560,060 — 1,445,871
Interest income 69 73,742  — — 73,81 1
Other income 5,127 7,531  3,340 1,538 17,536
Total revenues 2,784,619 967,084  563,400 1,538 4,316,641
     
Property operating expenses 1,904,593 — 179,332 — 2,083,925
Consolidated net operating income 880,026 967,084  384,068 1,538 2,232,716
     
Depreciation and amortization 484,796 243,830  193,094 — 921,720
Interest expense 63,265 15,194  10,015 396,148 484,622
General and administrative — — — 122,008 122,008
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial
instruments, net — 2,284  — — 2,284
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 3,785 29,083  4,373 — 37,241
Provision for loan losses — 62,966  — — 62,966
Impairment of assets 21,949 96,909  5,625 — 124,483
Other expenses 8,347 116,689(1) 1,911 50,829(2) 177,776
Income (loss) from continuing operations
before income taxes and other items 297,884 400,129  169,050 (567,447 ) 299,616
Income tax benefit (expense) (16,430 ) (4,291 ) (1,477 ) 2,070 (20,128 )
(Loss) income from unconsolidated entities (105,236 ) 19,428  2,683 — (83,125 )
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 56,295 286,325  1,630 — 344,250
Income (loss) from continuing operations 232,513 701,591  171,886 (565,377 ) 540,613
Net income (loss) $ 232,513 $ 701,591  $ 171,886 $ (565,377 ) $ 540,613
     
Total assets $13,432,001 $ 9,325,344  $ 5,082,145 $ 104,955 $27,944,445
(1) Primarily represents non-capitalizable transaction costs, including $88,316,000  due to a joint venture transaction with an existing seniors
housing opera tor which converted a portfolio of properties from Triple-net to Seniors Housing Operatin g and termination/restructuring of pre-
existing relationships. In addition, includes $18,294,000  other -than-temporary impairment charge on the Genesis available-for -sale equity
investment.
(2) Primarily related to $ 40,730,000  recognized for the donation of the corporate headquarters.
88
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Year Ended December 31, 2016:Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-netOutpatient
MedicalNon-segment /
Corporate Total
Resident fees and services $ 2,504,731 $ — $ — $ — $ 2,504,731
Rental income — 1,112,325 536,490 — 1,648,815
Interest income 4,180 90,476 3,307 — 97,963
Other income 17,085 6,059 5,568 939 29,651
Total revenues 2,525,996 1,208,860 545,365 939 4,281,160
     
Property operating expenses 1,711,882 — 165,101 — 1,876,983
Consolidated net operating income 814,1 14 1,208,860 380,264 939 2,404,177
     
Depreciation and amortization 415,429 297,197 188,616 — 901,242
Interest expense 81,853 21,370 19,087 399,035 521,345
General and administrative — — — 155,241 155,241
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial
instruments, net — 68 — (2,516 ) (2,448 )
Transaction costs 29,207 10,016 3,687 — 42,910
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net (88) 863 — 16,439 17,214
Provision for loan losses — 6,935 3,280 — 10,215
Impairment of assets 12,403 20,169 4,635 — 37,207
Other expenses — — — 11,998 11,998
Income (loss) from continuing operations
before income taxes and other items 275,310 852,242 160,959 (579,258 ) 709,253
Income tax benefit (expense) (3,762 ) (1,087 ) (511) 24,488 19,128
(Loss) income from unconsolidated
entities (20,442 ) 9,767 318 — (10,357 )
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 9,880 355,394 (1,228 ) — 364,046
Income from continuing operations 260,986 1,216,316 159,538 (554,770 ) 1,082,070
Net income (loss) $ 260,986 $ 1,216,316 $ 159,538 $ (554,770 )$ 1,082,070
Our portfolio of properties and other investments are located in the U.S., the U.K. and Canada. Revenues and assets are attributed
to the country in which the property is physically located. The following is a summary of geographic information for the periods
presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2018  December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016
Revenues: Amount  %  Amount  % Amount  %
United States $ 3,777,960  80.4% $ 3,464,527  80.3%$ 3,453,485  80.6%
United Kingdom 452,956  9.6% 407,351  9.4% 388,383  9.1%
Canada 469,583  10.0% 444,763  10.3% 439,292  10.3%
Total $ 4,700,499  100.0 % $ 4,316,641  100.0 %$ 4,281,160  100.0 %
 As of    
 December 31, 2018  December 31, 2017    
Assets: Amount  %  Amount  %    
United States $ 24,884,292  82.0% $ 22,274,443  79.7%   
United Kingdom 3,078,994  10.1% 3,239,039  11.6%   
Canada 2,378,786  7.9% 2,430,963  8.7%   
Total $ 30,342,072  100.0 % $ 27,944,445  100.0 %   
 
18. Income Taxes and Distributions 
We elected to be taxed as a REIT commencing with our first taxable year. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes,
at least 90% of taxable income (excluding net capital gains) must be distributed to stockholders. REITs that do not distribute a
89
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
certain amount of current year taxable income are also subject to a 4% federal excise tax. The main differences between net income
for federal income tax purposes and consolidated financial statement purposes are the recognition of straight-line rent for reporting
purposes, basis differences in acquisitions, recording of impairments, differing useful lives and depreciation and amortization
methods for real property and the provision for loan losses for reporting purposes versus bad debt expense for tax purposes. 
Cash distributions paid to common stockholders, for federal income tax purposes, are as follows for the periods presented:
 Year Ended December 31,
 2018  2017 2016
Per share:   
Ordinary dividend(1)$ 2.1988  $ 1.8117 $ 2.5067
Long-term capital gain/(loss)(2)1.1153  1.5755 0.8760
Return of capital 0.1659  0.0928 0.0573
Totals $ 3.4800  $ 3.4800 $ 3.4400
(1) For the year ended December 31, 2018, includes Section 199A dividends of $2.1988. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, includes Qualified
Dividend of $0.0038 and $0.0047, respectively.
(2) For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, includes Unrecaptured SEC. 1250 Gains of $0.3822, $0.3557 and $0.4120, respectively.
Our consolidated provision for income tax expense (benefit) is as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2018  2017  2016
Current $ 15,850  $ 7,633  $ 14,944
Deferred (7,176 ) 12,495  (34,072 )
Totals $ 8,674  $ 20,128  $ (19,128 )
REITs generally are not subject to U.S. federal income taxes on that portion of REIT taxable income or capital gain that is
distributed to stockholders. For the tax year ended December 31, 2018, as a result of ownership of investments in Canada and the
U.K., we were subject to foreign income taxes under the respective tax laws of these jurisdictions. 
The provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2018 primarily relates to state taxes, foreign taxes, and taxes
based on income generated by entities that are structured as TRSs. For the tax years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the
foreign tax provision/(benefit) amount included in the consolidated provision for income taxes was $9,804,000, $4,806,000 and
$(3,315,000), respectively.
A reconciliation of income taxes, which is computed by applying the federal corporate tax rate for the years ended December 31,
2018, 2017 and 2016, to the income tax expense/(benefit) is as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2018  2017  2016
Tax at statutory rate on earnings from continuing operations before
unconsolidated entities, noncontrolling interests and income taxes $ 176,069  $ 199,588  $ 372,030
Increase (decrease) in valuation allowance(1)28,309  30,445  (2,128 )
Tax at statutory rate on earnings not subject to federal income taxes (206,937 ) (234,468 ) (399,571 )
Foreign permanent depreciation 8,110 10,065  9,205
Other dif ferences 3,123  14,498  1,336
Totals $ 8,674  $ 20,128  $ (19,128 )
(1) Excluding purchase price accounting.
Each TRS and foreign entity subject to income taxes is a tax paying component for purposes of classifying deferred tax assets
and liabilities. The tax effects of taxable and deductible temporary differences, as well as tax asset/(liability) attributes, are
summarized as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):
90
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Year Ended December 31,
 2018  2017 2016
Investments and property , primarily dif ferences in investment basis,
depreciation and amortization, the basis of land assets and the treatment of
interests and certain costs $ (2,533 ) $ (11,812 )$ (7,089 )
Operating loss and interest deduction carryforwards 98,713  94,654 82,469
Expense accruals and other 48,804  25,146 15,978
Valuation allowance (155,592 ) (127,283 ) (96,838 )
Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) $ (10,608 ) $ (19,295 )$ (5,480 )
We assess the available positive and negative evidence to estimate if sufficient future taxable income will be generated to use the
existing deferred tax assets. We apply the concepts on an entity-by-entity, jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis. With respect to the
analysis of certain entities in multiple jurisdictions, a significant piece of objective negative evidence evaluated was the cumulative
loss incurred over the three-year period ended December 31, 2018. Such objective evidence limits the ability to consider other
subjective evidence such as our projections for future growth. 
On the basis of the evaluations performed as required by the codification, valuation allowances totaling $155,592,000 were
recorded on U.S. taxable REIT subsidiaries as well as entities in other jurisdictions to limit the deferred tax assets to the amount
that we believe is more likely that not realizable. However, the amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable could be
adjusted if (i) estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period are reduced or increased or (ii) objective negative
evidence in the form of cumulative losses is no longer present (and additional weight may be given to subjective evidence such as
our projections for growth). The valuation allowance rollforward is summarized as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2018  2017 2016
Beginning balance $ 127,283  $ 96,838 $ 98,966
Expense (benefit) 28,309  30,445 (2,128 )
Ending balance $ 155,592  $ 127,283 $ 96,838
As a result of certain acquisitions, we are subject to corporate level taxes for any related asset dispositions that may occur during
the five-year period immediately after such assets were owned by a C corporation (“built-in gains tax”). The amount of income
potentially subject to this special corporate level tax is generally equal to the lesser of (a) the excess of the fair value of the asset
over its adjusted tax basis as of the date it became a REIT asset, or (b) the actual amount of gain. Some but not all gains recognized
during this period of time could be offset by available net operating losses and capital loss carryforwards. During the year ended
December 31, 2017, we acquired certain additional assets with built-in gains as of the date of acquisition that could be subject to
the built-in gains tax if disposed of prior to the expiration of the applicable five-year period. We have not recorded a deferred tax
liability as a result of the potential built-in gains tax based on our intentions with respect to such properties and available tax
planning strategies. 
Under the provisions of the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007 (“RIDEA”), the REIT may lease
“qualified health care properties” on an arm’s-length basis to a TRS if the property is operated on behalf of such subsidiary by a
person who qualifies as an “eligible independent contractor.” Generally, the rent received from the TRS will meet the related party
rent exception and will be treated as “rents from real property.” A “qualified health care property” includes real property and any
personal property that is, or is necessary or incidental to the use of, a hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate
care facility, qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility which extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to
patients. We have entered into various joint ventures that were structured under RIDEA. Resident level rents and related operating
expenses for these facilities are reported in the consolidated financial statements and are subject to federal, state and foreign income
taxes as the operations of such facilities are included in a TRS. Certain net operating loss carryforwards could be utilized to offset
taxable income in future years. 
Given the applicable statute of limitations, we generally are subject to audit by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for the year
ended December 31, 2015 and subsequent years. The statute of limitations may vary in the states in which we own properties or
conduct business. We do not expect to be subject to audit by state taxing authorities for any year prior to the year ended December
31, 2012. We are also subject to audit by the Canada Revenue Agency and provincial authorities generally for periods subsequent to
May 2013 related to entities acquired or formed in connection with acquisitions, and by the U.K.’s HM Revenue & Customs for
periods subsequent to August 2013 related to entities acquired or formed in connection with acquisitions. 
At December 31, 2018, we had a net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforward related to the REIT of $348,031,000. Due to our
uncertainty regarding the realization of certain deferred tax assets, we have not recorded a deferred tax asset related to NOLs
generated by the REIT. These amounts can be used to offset future taxable income (and/or taxable income for prior years if an
91
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
audit determines that tax is owed), if any. The REIT will be entitled to utilize NOLs and tax credit carryforwards only to the extent
that REIT taxable income exceeds our deduction for dividends paid. The NOL carryforwards generated through December 31, 2017
will expire through 2037. Beginning with tax years after December 31, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act eliminates the carryback
period, limits the NOLs to 80% of taxable income and replaces the 20-year carryforward period with an indefinite carryforward
period. 
At December 31, 2018 and 2017, we had an NOL carryforward related to Canadian entities of $154,029,000, and $134,552,000,
respectively. These Canadian losses have a 20-year carryforward period. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, we had an NOL
carryforward related to U.K. entities of $242,377,000 and $183,712,000, respectively. These U.K. losses do not have a finite
carryforward period. 
19. Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited) 
The following is a summary of our unaudited quarterly results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 (in
thousands, except per share data). The sum of individual quarterly amounts may not agree to the annual amounts included in the
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income due to rounding.
  Year Ended December 31, 2018
  1st Quarter 2nd Quarter  3rd Quarter 4th Quarter
Revenues  $ 1,096,965 $ 1,125,912  $ 1,236,379 $ 1,241,243
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders  437,671 154,432  64,384 101,763
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders per share:    
Basic  $ 1.18 $ 0.42  $ 0.17 $ 0.27
Diluted  $ 1.17 $ 0.41  $ 0.17 $ 0.27
  Year Ended December 31, 2017
  1st Quarter 2nd Quarter  3rd Quarter 4th Quarter(1)
Revenues  $ 1,062,298 $ 1,058,602  $ 1,091,483 $ 1,104,257
Net income attributable to common stockholders  312,639 188,429  74,043 (111,523 )
Net income attributable to common stockholders per share:    
Basic  $ 0.86 $ 0.51  $ 0.20 $ (0.31)
Diluted  $ 0.86 $ 0.51  $ 0.20 $ (0.31)
(1) The decrease in net income (loss) and amounts per share are primarily attributable to $99,821,100 impairment of assets and $62,966,000 provision for loan
losses recognized in the fourth quarter.
20. Variable Interest Entities 
We have entered into joint ventures to own certain seniors housing and outpatient medical assets which are deemed to be variable
interest entities (“VIEs”).  We have concluded that we are the primary beneficiary of these VIEs based on a combination of
operational control of the joint venture and the rights to receive residual returns or the obligation to absorb losses arising from the
joint ventures. Except for capital contributions associated with the initial joint venture formations, the joint ventures have been and
are expected to be funded from the ongoing operations of the underlying properties. Accordingly, such joint ventures have been
consolidated, and the table below summarizes the balance sheets of consolidated VIEs in the aggregate (in thousands):
 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017
Assets:  
Net real property owned $ 973,813 $ 1,002,137
Cash and cash equivalents 18,678 12,308
Receivables and other assets 14,600 16,330
Total assets(1) $ 1,007,091 $ 1,030,775
Liabilities and equity:  
Secured debt $ 465,433 $ 471,103
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 18,229 14,832
Total equity 523,429 544,840
Total liabilities and equity $ 1,007,091 $ 1,030,775
 
(1) Note that assets of the consolidated VIEs can only be used to settle obligations relating to such VIEs. Liabilities of the consolidated VIEs represent claims
against the specific assets of the VIEs.
92
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
21. Subsequent Events 
Senior Notes Activity
On February 15, 2019, we completed the issuance of $500 million of 3.625% senior unsecured notes due 2024 and $550 million
of 4.125% senior unsecured notes due 2029.
On February 15, 2019, we also announced the redemption of $600 million of 4.125% senior unsecured notes due 2019 and $450
million of 6.125% senior unsecured notes due 2020.
Preferred Stock Activity
On February 21, 2019, we announced that we elected to effect the conversion of all of the outstanding Series I Preferred Stock.
Each share of convertible preferred stock will be converted into 0.8857 shares of common stock on February 28, 2019.
93
Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
Not applicable.
Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
An evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on
that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were
effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The Company’s internal control
over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (2) provide reasonable assurance
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the Company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because
of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Management has assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018
based on the criteria established by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) in
a report entitled Internal Control — Integrated Framework.
Based on this assessment, using the criteria above, management concluded that the Company’s system of internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2018.
The independent registered public accounting firm of Ernst & Young LLP, as auditors of the Company’s consolidated financial
statements, has issued an attestation report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
No change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended) occurred during the fourth quarter of the one-year period covered by this report that materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
94
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
The Shareholders and Board of Directors of Welltower Inc. 
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial reporting
We have audited Welltower Inc. and subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, based on
criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the “COSO Criteria”). In our opinion, Welltower Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company)
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, based on the COSO
Criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States)
(PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets of Welltower Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the related
consolidated statements of comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2018, and the related notes and financial statement schedules listed in the index at Item 15(a) and our report dated
February 25, 2019 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on
Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be
independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of
the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company’s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because
of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
/s/  Ernst & Young LLP
 
Toledo, Ohio
February 25, 2019
Item 9B. Other Information
None.
95
PART III 
Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the headings “Election of
Directors,” “Corporate Governance,” “Executive Officers,” and “Security Ownership of Directors and Management and Certain
Beneficial Owners — Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) prior to May 1, 2019. 
We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to our directors, officers and employees. The code is posted
on the Internet at www.welltower.com/investors/governance. Any amendment to, or waivers from, the code that relate to any officer
or director of the company will be promptly disclosed on the Internet at www.welltower.com. 
In addition, the Board has adopted charters for the Audit, Compensation and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committees.
These charters are posted on the Internet at www.welltower.com/investors/governance.  Please refer to “Item 7 – Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Executive Summary – Corporate Governance” in the
Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of corporate governance. 
The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is
included as an inactive textual reference only. 
Item 11.  Executive Compensation 
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the headings “Executive
Compensation” and “Director Compensation” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior to
May 1, 2019.
Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the headings “Security
Ownership of Directors and Management and Certain Beneficial Owners” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in our
definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior to May 1, 2019.
Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the headings “Corporate
Governance — Independence and Meetings” and “Security Ownership of Directors and Management and Certain Beneficial
Owners — Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the
Commission prior to May 1, 2019.
Item 14.  Principal Accounting Fees and Services
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the heading “Ratification of
the Appointment of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with
the Commission prior to May 1, 2019.
96
PART IV
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
(a)1. Our Consolidated Financial Statements are included in Part II, Item 8:  
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 61
Consolidated Balance Sheets – December 31, 2018 and 2017 62
Consolidated Statements of  Comprehensive Income — Years ended  December 31, 2018, 2017 and  2016 63
Consolidated Statements of  Equity — Years ended  December 31, 2018, 2017 and  2016 65
Consolidated Statements of  Cash Flows — Years ended  December 31, 2018, 2017 and  2016 66
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 67
 
2. The following Financial Statement Schedules are included beginning on page 105: 
III – Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
IV – Mortgage Loans on Real Estate 
The financial statement schedule required by Item15(a) (Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts) is included in
Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
(b) Exhibits:
The exhibits listed below are either filed with this Form 10-K or incorporated by reference in accordance with Rule 12b-
32 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
97
2.1 Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 25, 2018, by and among the Company, Potomac Acquisition LLC,
Quality Care Properties, Inc. and certain subsidiaries of Quality Care Properties, Inc. (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed April 26, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).
3.1(a)     Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s
Form 10-K filed March 20, 2000 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(b)     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 20, 2000 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).
3.1(c)      Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed June 13, 2003 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).
3.1(d)     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 3.9 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed August 9, 2007 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).
3.1(e)      Certificate of Change of Location of Registered Office and of Registered Agent of the Company (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed August 6, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).
3.1(f)      Certificate of Designation of 6.50% Series I Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock of the Company (filed
with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 7, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(g)      Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed May 10, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).
3.1(h)     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed May 6, 2014 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).
3.1(i)       Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed September 30, 2015 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).
3.2 Sixth Amended and Restated By-laws of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.2 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed December 4, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(a)     Indenture, dated as of March 15, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 15, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(b)     Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of March 15, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 15, 2010 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(c)      Amendment No. 1 to Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of June 18, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
June 18, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(d)     Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of April 7, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed April 7, 2010 (File No. 001-
08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(e)      Amendment No. 1 to Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of June 8, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
June 8, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
98
4.1(f)      Supplemental Indenture No. 3, dated as of September 10, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed September 13, 2010
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(g)      Supplemental Indenture No. 4, dated as of November 16, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 16,
2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(h)     Supplemental Indenture No. 5, dated as of March 14, 2011, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 14, 2011 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(i)       Supplemental Indenture No. 6, dated as of April 3, 2012, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed April 4, 2012 (File No. 001-
08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(j)      Supplemental Indenture No. 7, dated as of December 6, 2012, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed December 11, 2012
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(k)     Supplemental Indenture No. 8, dated as of October 7, 2013, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed October 9, 2013 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).  
4.1(l)       Supplemental Indenture No. 9, dated as of November 20, 2013, between the Company and The Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 20,
2013 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(m)    Supplemental Indenture No. 10, dated as of November 25, 2014, between the Company and The Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 25,
2014 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(n)     Supplemental Indenture No. 11, dated as of May 26, 2015, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed May 27, 2015 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(o)     Amendment No. 1 to Supplemental Indenture No. 11, dated as of October 19, 2015, between the Company and The Bank
of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
October 20, 2015 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(p)     Supplemental Indenture No. 12, dated as of March 1, 2016, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 3, 2016 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(q)Supplemental Indenture No. 13, dated as of April 10, 2018, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed April 10, 2018 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(r)Supplemental Indenture No. 14, dated as of August 16, 2018, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed August 16, 2018 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(s)Supplemental Indenture No. 15, dated as of February 15, 2019 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Form 8-K filed February 15, 2019 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.2          Form of Indenture for Senior Subordinated Debt Securities (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s
Form S-3 (File No. 333-2250004) filed May 17, 2018, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.3          Form of Indenture for Junior Subordinated Debt Securities (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s
Form S-3 (File No. 333-2250004) filed May 17, 2018, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
99
4.4(a)     Indenture, dated as of November 25, 2015, by and among HCN Canadian Holdings-1 LP, the Company and BNY Trust
Company of Canada (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.5(a) to the Company’s Form 10-K  filed February 18, 2016
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.4(b)     First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 25, 2015, by and among HCN Canadian Holdings-1 LP, the
Company and BNY Trust Company of Canada (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.5(b) to the Company’s Form 10-K
filed February 18, 2016 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
10.1 Credit Agreement dated as of July 19, 2018 by and among the Company; the lenders listed therein; KeyBank National
Association, as administrative agent, L/C issuer and a swingline lender; Bank of America, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A., as co-syndication agents; Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as documentation agent; Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and Deutsche Bank Securities
Inc., as U.S. joint lead arrangers; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.,
KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and RBC Capital Markets, as Canadian joint lead arrangers; and Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Smith Incorporated and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as joint book runners (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed July 24, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).
10.2        Equity Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 28, 2011, by and among the Company, FC-GEN Investment, LLC and
FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
February 28, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
10.3(a)   Amended and Restated Health Care REIT, Inc. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Appendix A
to the Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, filed March 25, 2009 (File No. 001-
08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.3(b)   Form of Stock Option Agreement (with Dividend Equivalent Rights) for Executive Officers under the 2005 Long-Term
Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.3(c)   Form of Stock Option Agreement (without Dividend Equivalent Rights) for Executive Officers under the Amended and
Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed
May 10, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.3(d)   Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for the Chief Executive Officer under the Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term
Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 10, 2010 (File No. 001-
08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.3(e)   Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for Executive Officers under the Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive
Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 10, 2010 (File No. 001-08923),
and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.4(a)   Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated January 3, 2017, between the Company and Thomas J. DeRosa
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.4(a) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 22, 2017 (File No. 001-08923),
and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.4(b)   Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Grant Agreement, dated effective as of July 30, 2014, between the Company
and Thomas J. DeRosa (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed November 4, 2014
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.5(a)Transfer Letter, dated August 17, 2018, by and between John A. Goodey and the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed October 30, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).
10.5(b)Letter Agreement, dated January 30, 2019, by and between John A. Goodey and the Company.*
10.6       Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated June 16, 2017, by and between the Company and Mercedes T. Kerr
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed July 28, 2017 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
100
10.7      Form of Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each director, executive officer and officer of the Company
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed February 18, 2005 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.8      Summary of Director Compensation.*
10.9(a) Health Care REIT, Inc. 2015-2017 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the
Company’s Form 10-Q filed August 4, 2015 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.9(b) Form of Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2015-2017 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed
with the Commission as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed August 4, 2015 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.10(a) Welltower Inc. 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K
filed May 10, 2016 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.10(b) Form of Restricted Stock Grant Notice for Executive Officers under the 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.14(b) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.10(c) Form of Restricted Stock Grant Notice for Senior Vice Presidents under the 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.14(c) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.10(d) Form of Deferred Stock Unit Grant Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.14(d) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-
08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.11(a) Welltower Inc. 2016-2018 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s
Form 10-Q filed August 2, 2016 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.11(b) Form of Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2016-2018 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed
with the Commission as Exhibit 10.15(b) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.12(a) Welltower Inc. 2017-2019 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s
Form 10-Q filed May 5, 2017 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.12(b) Form of Award Notice under the 2017-2019 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
10.16(b) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).*
10.12(c) Welltower Inc. 2017-2019 Long-Term Incentive Program – Bridge 1 (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the
Company’s Form 10-Q filed November 7, 2017 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.12(d) Form of Award Notice under the 2017-2019 Long Term Incentive Program - Bridge 1 (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 10.16(d) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).*
10.12(e) Welltower Inc. 2017-2019 Long-Term Incentive Program – Bridge 2 (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the
Company’s Form 10-Q filed November 7, 2017 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.12(f) Form of Award Notice under the 2017-2019 Long Term Incentive Program - Bridge 2 (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 10.16(f) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).*
10.13(a) Welltower Inc. 2018-2020 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.17(a) to the
Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.13(b) Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2018-2020 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.17(b) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
101
10.14(a)Welltower Inc. 2019-2021 Long-Term Incentive Program.*
10.14(b) Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2019-2021 Long-Term Incentive Program.*
21           Subsidiaries of the Company.
23           Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accounting firm.
24           Powers of Attorney.
31.1        Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer.
31.2        Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer.
32.1        Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by Chief Executive Officer.
32.2        Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by Chief Financial Officer.
101.INS     XBRL Instance Document
101.SCH   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document
101.CAL   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document
101.LAB   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document
101.PRE    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document
101.DEF    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document
                           
 
*  Management Contract or Compensatory Plan or Arrangement.
Item 16.  Form 10-K Summary
None.
102
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
Date:  February 25, 2019
WELLTOWER INC. 
By: /s/  Thomas J. DeRosa                                             
Thomas J. DeRosa,
Chief Executive Officer and Director 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below on February 25, 2019 by
the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated. 
/s/  Jeffrey H. Donahue ** /s/  Johnese Spisso **
Jeffrey H. Donahue, Chairman of the Board Johnese Spisso, Director
  
/s/  Kenneth J. Bacon ** /s/  R. Scott Trumbull **
Kenneth J. Bacon, Director R. Scott Trumbull, Director
  
/s/  Karen DeSalvo ** /s/  Gary Whitelaw **
Karen DeSalvo, Director Gary Whitelaw, Director
  
/s/  Geoffrey G. Meyers  ** /s/  Thomas J. DeRosa **
Geoffrey G. Meyers, Director Thomas J. DeRosa, Chief Executive Officer and Director
 (Principal Executive Officer)
  
/s/  Timothy J. Naughton  ** /s/  John A. Goodey **
Timothy J. Naughton, Director John A. Goodey, Executive Vice President and Chief
            Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)
  
/s/  Sharon M. Oster ** /s/  Joshua T. Fieweger**
Sharon M. Oster, Director Joshua T. Fieweger, Vice President and
 Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)
  
/s/  Judith C. Pelham ** **By:     /s/  Thomas J. DeRosa          
Judith C. Pelham, Director                            Thomas J. DeRosa, Attorney-in-Fact
  
/s/  Sergio D. Rivera **  
Sergio D. Rivera, Director  
103
Welltower Inc.  
Schedule III  
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  
December 31, 2018  
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description Encumbrances Land  Building &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
Acquisition Land  Building &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:              
Acton, MA $ — $ — $ 31,346 $ 1,691 $ 24 $ 33,013 $ 6,127  2013 2000 10 Devon Drive
Adderbury , UK — 2,144  12,549 — 2,144  12,549 621 2015 2017 Banbury Road
Albuquerque, NM — 1,270  20,837 2,139 1,354  22,892 6,475  2010 1984 500 Paisano St NE
Alexandria, VA — 8,280  50,914 — 8,280  50,914 1,055  2016 2018 5550 Cardinal Place
Alhambra, CA — 600 6,305 9,067 600 15,372 2,124  2011 1923 1118 N. Stoneman Ave.
Altrincham, UK — 4,244  25,187 1,700 4,388  26,743 5,790  2012 2009 295 Hale Road
Amherstview , ON 486 473 4,446 508 493 4,934 799 2015 1974 4567 Bath Road
Anderson, SC — 710 6,290 456 710 6,746 3,524  2003 1986 311 Simpson Rd.
Apple Valley , CA — 480 16,639 262 486 16,895 4,633  2010 1999 11825 Apple Valley Rd.
Arlington, VA — 8,385  31,198 14,030 8,385  45,228 6,530  2017 1992 900 N Taylor Street
Arlington, VA — — 2,338 — — 2,338 89 2018 1992 900 N Taylor Street
Arnprior , ON 147 788 6,283 422 810 6,683 1,505  2013 1991 15 Arthur Street
Atlanta, GA — 2,100  20,603 1,532 2,197  22,038 4,140  2014 2000 1000 Lenox Park Blvd NE
Austin, TX — 1,560  21,413 511 1,560  21,924 2,984  2014 2013 11330 Farrah Lane
Austin, TX — 4,200  74,850 746 4,200  75,596 8,063  2015 2014 4310 Bee Caves Road
Avon, CT — 1,550  30,571 4,211 1,590  34,742 10,488  2011 1998 101 Bickford Extension
Azusa, CA — 570 3,141 7,872 570 11,013 3,286  1998 1953 125 W. Sierra Madre Ave.
Bagshot, UK — 4,960  29,881 2,920 5,133  32,628 7,189  2012 2009 14 - 16 London Road
Banstead, UK — 6,695  55,113 4,444 6,956  59,296 12,237  2012 2005 Croydon Lane
Basingstoke, UK — 3,420  18,853 1,014 3,535  19,752 2,578  2014 2012 Grove Road
Basking Ridge, NJ — 2,356  37,710 1,623 2,395  39,294 8,040  2013 2002 404 King Geor ge Road
Bassett, UK — 4,874  32,304 4,413 5,051  36,540 8,138  2013 2006 111 Bur gess Road
Bath, UK — 2,696  11,876 — 2,696  11,876 571 2015 2017 Clarks Way, Rush Hill
Baton Rouge, LA 8,838 790 29,436 1,139 842 30,523 6,086  2013 2009 9351 Siegen Lane
Beaconsfield, UK — 5,566  50,952 2,287 5,765  53,040 10,591  2013 2009 30-34 Station Road
Beaconsfield, QC — 1,149  17,484 641 1,225  18,049 4,937  2013 2008 505 Elm Avenue
Bedford, NH — 2,527  28,748 2,299 2,551  31,023 5,760  2011 2012 5 Corporate Drive
Bee Cave, TX — 1,820  21,084 819 1,820  21,903 2,369  2016 2014 14058 A Bee Cave Parkway
Bellevue, WA — 2,800  19,004 2,183 2,816  21,171 5,325  2013 1998 15928 NE 8th Street
Belmont, CA — 3,000  23,526 2,395 3,000  25,921 6,832  2011 1971 1301 Ralston Avenue
Belmont, CA — — 35,300 2,308 157 37,451 8,026  2013 2002 1010 Alameda de Las Pulgas
Berkeley , CA 12,195 3,050  32,677 5,086 3,050  37,763 4,759  2016 1966 2235 Sacramento Street
Bethesda, MD — — 45,309 677 3 45,983 9,551  2013 2009 8300 Burdett Road
Bethesda, MD — — 45 682 — 727 136 2013 2009 8300 Burdett Road
Bethesda, MD — — 212 907 — 1,119 319 2013 2009 8300 Burdett Road
Billerica, MA — 1,619  21,381 867 1,624  22,243 3,170  2015 2000 20 Charnstaf fe Lane
Birmingham, UK — 1,480  13,014 654 1,530  13,618 776 2015 2016 47 Bristol Road South
(Dollars in thousands)   
   Initial Cost to Company    Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period       
Description Encumbrances Land Building &
Improvements Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent Land Building &
Improvements Accumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
Acquired Year
Built Address
to
Acquisition
Seniors Housing
Operating:                  
Birmingham, UK  — 2,807 11,313  605 2,902 11,823  645 2015  2016  134 Jockey Road
Blainville, QC  — 2,077 8,902  429 2,156 9,252  2,925  2013  2008  50 des Chateaux Boulevard
Bloomfield Hills, MI  — 2,000 35,662  1,067  2,133 36,596  7,455  2013  2009  6790 Telegraph Road
Boca Raton, FL  — 6,565 111,247  18,834  6,565 130,081  7,491  2018  1994  6343 Via De Sonrise Del Sur
Borehamwood, UK  — 5,367 41,937  2,246  5,584 43,966  9,285  2012  2003  Edgwarebury Lane
Bothell, WA  — 1,350 13,439  6,074  1,798 19,065  2,344  2015  1988  10605 NE 185th Street
Boulder , CO  — 2,994 27,458  2,271  3,022 29,701  7,497  2013  2003  3955 28th Street
Bournemouth, UK  — 5,527 42,547  2,338  5,725 44,687  9,186  2013  2008  42 Belle Vue Road
Braintree, MA  — — 41,290  1,079  100 42,269  8,961  2013  2007  618 Granite Street
Brampton, ON  40,685 10,196 59,989  — 10,196 59,989  10,075  2015  2009  100 Ken Whillans Drive
Brick, NJ  — 1,170 17,372  1,530  1,211 18,861  4,186  2010  1998  515 Jack Martin Blvd
Brick, NJ  — 690 17,125  5,610  695 22,730  4,152  2010  1999  1594 Route 88
Bridgewater , NJ  — 1,730 48,201  1,562  1,767 49,726  10,329  2010  1999  2005 Route 22 West
Brighton, MA  9,686 2,100 14,616  1,712  2,135 16,293  4,736  2011 1995  50 Sutherland Road 
Brockport, NY  — 1,500 23,496  582 1,705 23,873  3,890  2015  1999  90 West Avenue
Brockville, ON  4,288 484 7,445  432 498 7,863  1,170  2015  1996  1026 Bridlewood Drive
Brookfield, CT  — 2,250 30,180  3,337  2,271 33,496  9,272  2011 1999  246A  Federal Road 
Broomfield, CO  — 4,140 44,547  11,976  10,135 50,528  16,614  2013  2009  400 Summit Blvd
Brossard, QC  10,432 5,499 31,854  285 5,427 32,21 1 5,560  2015  1989  2455 Boulevard Rome
Buckingham, UK  — 2,979 13,880  744 3,080 14,523  1,882  2014  1883  Church Street
Buffalo Grove, IL  — 2,850 49,129  3,154  2,850 52,283  10,571  2012  2003  500 McHenry Road
Burbank, CA  — 4,940 43,466  2,067  4,940 45,533  10,721  2012  2002  455 E. Angeleno Avenue
Burbank, CA  19,237 3,610 50,817  3,983  3,610 54,800  5,663  2016  1985  2721 Willow Street
Burleson, TX  — 3,150 10,437  659 3,150 11,096  1,354  2012  2014  621 Old Highway 1 187
Burlingame, CA  — — 62,786  85 — 62,871  4,858  2016  2015  1818 Trousdale Avenue
Burlington, ON  11,514 1,309 19,31 1 623 1,338 19,905  4,321  2013  1990  500 Appleby Line
Burlington, MA  — 2,443 34,354  1,388  2,522 35,663  8,007  2013  2005  24 Mall Road
Burlington, MA  — 2,750 57,488  3,304  2,750 60,792  6,120  2016  2011 50 Greenleaf Way
Bushey , UK  — 12,690 36,482  — 12,690 36,482  308 2015  2018  Elton House, Elton Way
Calgary , AB  11,323 2,252 37,415  1,286  2,298 38,655  8,580  2013  2003  20 Promenade Way SE
Calgary , AB  12,909 2,793 41,179  1,065  2,843 42,194  9,176  2013  1998  80 Edenwold Drive NW
Calgary , AB  10,237 3,122 38,971  1,241  3,184 40,150  8,632  2013  1998  150 Scotia Landing NW
Calgary , AB  21,247 3,431 28,983  1,676  3,498 30,592  5,754  2013  1989  9229 16th Street SW
Calgary , AB  24,199 2,385 36,776  1,152  2,427 37,886  5,774  2015  2006  2220-162nd Avenue SW
Camberley , UK  — 2,654 5,736  21,500  8,150 21,937  1,230  2014  2016  Fernhill Road
Cardif f, UK  — 3,191 12,566  884 3,307 13,334  3,647  2013  2007  127 Cyncoed Road
Cardif f by the Sea, CA  37,025 5,880 64,71 1 4,243  5,880 68,954  15,985  2011 2009  3535 Manchester Avenue
Carol Stream, IL  — 1,730 55,048  2,104  1,730 57,152  12,748  2012  2001  545 Belmont Lane
Carrollton, TX  — 4,280 31,444  1,041  4,280 32,485  4,207  2013  2010  2105 North Josey Lane
Cary , NC  — 740 45,240  744 740 45,984  8,360  2013  2009  1206 West Chatham Street
Cary , NC  — 6,112 70,008  8,355  6,112 78,363  3,652  2018  1999  300 Kildaire Woods Drive
Cedar Park, TX  — 1,750 15,664  1,162  1,750 16,826  1,215  2016  2015  800 C-Bar Ranch Trail
Cerritos, CA  — — 27,494  6,570  — 34,064  6,011 2016  2002  11000 New Falcon Way
(Dollars in thousands)   
   Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description  Encumbrances Land  Building &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition Land  Building &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built  Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:                
Charlottesville, VA  — 4,651  91,468 11,276 4,651  102,744 6,952  2018 1991  2610 Barracks Road
Chatham, ON  895 1,098  12,462 1,809 1,193  14,176 3,167  2015 1965  25 Keil Drive North
Chelmsford, MA  — 1,040  10,951 1,525 1,040  12,476 4,625  2003 1997  4 Technology Dr .
Chelmsford, MA  — 1,589  26,432 1,301 1,656  27,666 3,882  2015 1997  199 Chelmsford Street
Chertsey , UK  — 9,566  25,886 — 9,566  25,886 743 2015 2018  Bittams Lane
Chesterfield, MO  — 1,857  48,366 1,462 1,917  49,768 9,624  2013 2001  1880 Clarkson Road
Chorleywood, UK  — 5,636  43,191 3,864 5,833  46,858 10,193  2013 2007  High View, Rickmansworth Road
Chula Vista, CA  — 2,072  22,163 1,201 2,162  23,274 4,942  2013 2003  3302 Bonita Road
Church Crookham, UK  — 2,591  14,215 835 2,691  14,950 2,596  2014 2014  Bourley Road
Cincinnati, OH  — 2,060  109,388 13,733 2,080  123,101 26,921  2007 2010  5445 Kenwood Road
Citrus Heights, CA  — 2,300  31,876 726 2,300  32,602 8,987  2010 1997  7418 Stock Ranch Rd.
Claremont, CA  — 2,430  9,928 1,479 2,483  11,354 2,806  2013 2001  2053 North Towne Avenue
Cohasset, MA  — 2,485  26,147 1,919 2,493  28,058 6,009  2013 1998  125 King Street (Rt 3A)
Colleyville, TX  — 1,050  17,082 47 1,050  17,129 921 2016 2013  8100 Precinct Line Road
Colorado Springs, CO  — 800 14,756 1,980 1,026  16,510 3,610  2013 2001  2105 University Park Boulevard
Colts Neck, NJ  — 780 14,733 1,759 1,092  16,180 3,628  2010 2002  3 Meridian Circle
Concord, NH  — 720 21,164 852 789 21,947 5,450  2011 2001  300 Pleasant Street 
Coquitlam, BC  9,139 3,047  24,567 775 3,098  25,291 6,583  2013 1990  1142 Duf ferin Street
Costa Mesa, CA  — 2,050  19,969 1,404 2,050  21,373 5,647  2011 1965  350 West Bay St
Crystal Lake, IL  — 875 12,461 1,482 971 13,847 3,480  2013 2001  751 E Terra Cotta Avenue
Dallas, TX  — 6,330  114,794 1,613 6,330  116,407 13,498  2015 2013  3535 N Hall Street
Danvers, MA  — 1,120  14,557 1,505 1,145  16,037 4,429  2011 2000  1 Veronica Drive
Danvers, MA  — 2,203  28,761 342 2,257  29,049 4,487  2015 1997  9 Summer Street
Davenport, IA  — 1,403  35,893 4,269 1,480  40,085 10,506  2006 2009  4500 Elmore Ave.
Decatur , GA  — 1,946  26,575 2,504 1,946  29,079 6,609  2013 1998  920 Clairemont Avenue
Denver , CO  — 2,910  35,838 1,827 2,971  37,604 9,558  2012 2007  8101 E Mississippi Avenue
Dix Hills, NY  — 3,808  39,014 1,861 3,947  40,736 8,624  2013 2003  337 Deer Park Road
Dollard-Des-Ormeaux,
QC  — 1,957  14,431 538 2,039  14,887 4,786  2013 2008  4377 St. Jean Blvd
Dresher , PA  — 1,900  10,664 1,151 1,914  11,801 3,660  2013 2006  1650 Susquehanna Road
Dublin, OH  — 1,680  43,423 6,837 1,850  50,090 14,301  2010 1990  6470 Post Rd
Dublin, OH  — 1,169  25,345 47 1,169  25,392 2,232  2016 2015  4175 Stoneridge Lane
East Haven, CT  — 2,660  35,533 3,458 2,685  38,966 12,649  2011 2000  111 South Shore Drive 
East Meadow , NY  — 69 45,991 1,471 124 47,407 9,848  2013 2002  1555 Glen Curtiss Boulevard
East Setauket, NY  — 4,920  37,354 1,647 4,975  38,946 8,143  2013 2002  1 Sunrise Drive
Eastbourne, UK  — 4,145  33,744 1,554 4,298  35,145 7,685  2013 2008  6 Upper Kings Drive
Edgbaston, UK  — 2,720  13,969 722 2,812  14,599 1,490  2014 2015  Pershore Road
Edgewater , NJ  — 4,561  25,047 1,518 4,564  26,562 5,889  2013 2000  351 River Road
Edison, NJ  — 1,892  32,314 2,249 1,905  34,550 9,486  2013 1996  1801 Oak Tree Road
Edmonds, WA  — 1,650  24,449 4,823 1,672  29,250 3,548  2015 1976  21500 72nd Avenue West
Edmonton, AB  8,239 1,589  29,819 1,093 1,632  30,869 6,909  2013 1999  103 Rabbit Hill Court NW
Edmonton, AB  10,728 2,063  37,293 1,514 2,094  38,776 10,602  2013 1968  10015 103rd Avenue NW
Encinitas, CA  — 1,460  7,721 2,662 1,460  10,383 4,496  2000 1988  335 Saxony Rd.
Encino, CA  — 5,040  46,255 2,211 5,040  48,466 11,067  2012 2003  15451 Ventura Boulevard
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description Encumbrances LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition Land  Building &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
Acquired  Year
Built Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:               
Englishtown, NJ — 690 12,520 1,873 834 14,249  3,230  2010  1997 49 Lasatta Ave
Escondido, CA — 1,520 24,024 1,323 1,520  25,347  6,708  2011 1987 1500 Borden Rd
Esher , UK — 5,783 48,361 2,365 5,999  50,510  9,941  2013  2006 42 Copsem Lane
Fairfax, VA — 19 2,678 312 53 2,956  941 2013  1991 9207 Arlington Boulevard
Fairfield, NJ — 3,120 43,868 1,373 3,175  45,186  9,629  2013  1998 47 Greenbrook Road
Fairfield, CA — 1,460 14,040 1,565 1,460  15,605  6,635  2002  1998 3350 Cherry Hills St.
Fareham, UK — 3,408 17,970 1,077 3,536  18,919  2,887  2014  2012 Redlands Lane
Flossmoor , IL — 1,292 9,496 1,835 1,339  11,284  3,068  2013  2000 19715 Governors Highway
Folsom, CA — 1,490 32,754 84 1,490  32,838  4,420  2015  2014 1574 Creekside Drive
Fort Worth, TX — 1,740 19,799 1,089 1,740  20,888  2,265  2016  2014 7001 Bryant Irvin Road
Franklin, MA — 2,430 30,597 2,564 2,467  33,124  6,623  2013  1999 4 For ge Hill Road
Fremont, CA — 3,400 25,300 3,331 3,456  28,575  10,193  2005  1987 2860 Country Dr .
Frome, UK — 2,720 14,813 832 2,812  15,553  2,122  2014  2012 Welshmill Lane
Fullerton, CA — 1,964 19,989 883 1,998  20,838  4,718  2013  2008 2226 North Euclid Street
Gahanna, OH — 772 11,214 1,609 787 12,808  2,765  2013  1998 775 East Johnstown Road
Gilbert, AZ 15,436 2,160 28,246 1,429 2,176  29,659  8,274  2013  2008 580 S. Gilbert Road
Gilroy , CA — 760 13,880 24,966 1,588  38,018  11,161  2006  2007 7610 Isabella Way
Glen Cove, NY — 4,594 35,236 1,877 4,643  37,064  9,193  2013  1998 39 Forest Avenue
Glenview , IL — 2,090 69,288 3,353 2,090  72,641  15,745  2012  2001 2200 Golf Road
Golden Valley , MN — 1,520 33,513 1,383 1,602  34,814  7,025  2013  2005 4950 Olson Memorial Highway
Granbury , TX — 2,040 30,670 651 2,040  31,321  6,325  2011 2009 100 Watermark Boulevard
Greenville, SC — 310 4,750 36 310 4,786  1,927  2004  1997 23 Southpointe Dr .
Grimsby , ON — 636 5,617 271 649 5,875  990 2015  1991 84 Main Street East
Grosse Pointe Woods,
MI — 950 13,662 611 950 14,273  2,835  2013  2006 1850 Vernier Road
Grosse Pointe Woods,
MI — 1,430 31,777 1,118 1,435  32,890  6,544  2013  2005 21260 Mack Avenue
Grove City , OH 36,420 3,575 85,764 1,420 3,575  87,184  15 2018  2017 3717 Orders Road
Guelph, ON 3,985 1,190 7,597 407 1,224  7,970  1,551  2015  1978 165 Cole Road
Guildford, UK — 5,361 56,494 2,457 5,542  58,770  11,811 2013  2006 Astolat Way, Peasmarsh
Gurnee, IL — 890 27,931 2,110 935 29,996  5,768  2013  2002 500 North Hunt Club Road
Haddonfield, NJ — 520 16,363 22 527 16,378  1,796  2011 2015 132 Warwick Road
Hamden, CT — 1,460 24,093 1,912 1,493  25,972  7,593  2011 1999 35 Hamden Hills Drive 
Hampshire, UK — 4,172 26,035 1,185 4,322  27,070  5,857  2013  2006 22-26 Church Road
Haverford, P A — 1,880 33,993 1,305 1,885  35,293  7,263  2010  2000 731 Old Buck Lane
Haverhill, MA — 1,720 50,046 1,165 1,729  51,202  7,876  2015  1997 254 Amesbury Road
Henderson, NV — 880 29,809 994 897 30,786  6,451  2011 2009 1935 Paseo Verde Parkway
Henderson, NV — 1,190 11,600 968 1,253  12,505  3,765  2013  2008 1555 West Horizon Ridge Parkway
High Wycombe, UK — 3,567 13,422 — 3,567  13,422  622 2015  2017 The Row Lane End
Highland Park, IL — 2,250 25,313 1,378 2,265  26,676  6,466  2013  2005 1601 Green Bay Road
Hingham, MA — 1,440 32,292 269 1,444  32,557  4,511 2015  2012 1 Sgt. William B Terry Drive
Holbrook, NY — 3,957 35,337 1,819 4,021  37,092  7,637  2013  2001 320 Patchogue Holbrook Road
Horley , UK — 2,332 12,144 776 2,418  12,834  2,253  2014  2014 Court Lodge Road
Houston, TX — 3,830 55,674 6,995 3,830  62,669  15,150  2012  1998 2929 West Holcombe Boulevard
Houston, TX — 1,750 15,603 1,531 1,750  17,134  1,328  2016  2014 10120 Louetta Road
(Dollars in thousands)  
   Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description  Encumbrances LandBuilding &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:              
Houston, TX  — 960 16,151  — 960 16,151 7,703  2011 1995 10225 Cypresswood Dr
Howell, NJ  8,493 1,066 21,577  936 1,077 22,502 4,782  2010 2007 100 Meridian Place
Huntington Beach, CA  — 3,808 31,172  2,573 3,886 33,667 8,390  2013 2004 7401 Yorktown Avenue
Hutchinson, KS  — 600 10,590  324 604 10,910 3,986  2004 1997 2416 Brentwood
Irving, TX  — 1,030 6,823  1,332 1,030 8,155 2,320  2007 1999 8855 West Valley Ranch Parkway
Johns Creek, GA  — 1,580 23,285  827 1,588 24,104 5,111 2013 2009 11405 Medlock Bridge Road
Kanata, ON  — 1,689 28,670  87 1,663 28,783 6,073  2012 2005 70 Stonehaven Drive
Kansas City , MO  — 1,820 34,898  5,057 1,856 39,919 11,822  2010 1980 12100 Wornall Road
Kansas City , MO  5,265 1,930 39,997  4,923 1,963 44,887 13,359  2010 1986 6500 North Cosby Ave
Kansas City , MO  — 541 23,962  274 548 24,229 3,142  2015 2014 6460 North Cosby Avenue
Kelowna, BC  5,190 2,688 13,647  1,125 2,739 14,721 3,777  2013 1999 863 Leon Avenue
Kennebunk, ME  — 2,700 30,204  5,353 3,200 35,057 12,239  2013 2006 One Huntington Common Drive
Kennett Square, P A — 1,050 22,946  356 1,092 23,260 4,837  2010 2008 301 Victoria Gardens Dr .
Kingston, ON  4,202 1,030 11,416  844 1,060 12,230 1,768  2015 1983 181 Ontario Street
Kingwood, TX  — 480 9,777  1,096 480 10,873 2,698  2011 1999 22955 Eastex Freeway
Kingwood, TX  — 1,683 24,207  2,465 1,683 26,672 2,493  2017 2012 24025 Kingwood Place
Kirkland, WA  24,600 3,450 38,709  1,204 3,523 39,840 8,936  2011 2009 14 Main Street South
Kitchener , ON  1,327 708 2,744  111 650 2,913 764 2013 1979 164 - 168 Ferfus Avenue
Kitchener , ON  4,293 1,130 9,939  417 1,163 10,323 2,398  2013 1988 20 Fieldgate Street
Kitchener , ON  3,271 1,093 7,327  346 1,112 7,654 2,201  2013 1964 290 Queen Street South
Kitchener , ON  12,164 1,341 13,939  2,763 1,324 16,719 3,178  2016 2003 1250 Weber Street E
La Palma, CA  — 2,950 16,591  1,313 2,973 17,881 3,857  2013 2003 5321 La Palma Avenue
Lafayette Hill, P A  — 1,750 11,848  2,311 1,867 14,042 3,981  2013 1998 429 Ridge Pike
Laguna Hills, CA  — 12,820 75,926  17,135 12,820 93,061 12,877  2016 1988 24903 Moulton Parkway
Laguna Woods, CA  — 11,280 76,485  12,253 11,280 88,738 12,298  2016 1987 24441 Calle Sonora
Laguna Woods, CA  — 9,150 57,842  8,919 9,150 66,761 9,651  2016 1986 24962 Calle Aragon
Lake Zurich, IL  — 1,470 9,830  3,002 1,470 12,832 4,506  2011 2007 550 America Court
Lancaster , CA  — 700 15,295  781 712 16,064 4,731  2010 1999 43051 15th St. West
Laval, QC  21,982 2,105 32,161  3,051 2,105 35,212 721 2018 2005 269, boulevard Ste. Rose
Laval, QC  4,283 2,383 5,968  550 2,383 6,518 136 2018 1989 263, boulevard Ste. Rose
Lawrenceville, GA  — 1,500 29,003  741 1,529 29,715 6,432  2013 2008 1375 Webb Gin House Road
Leatherhead, UK  — 4,682 17,835  — 4,682 17,835 718 2015 2017 Rectory Lane
Lecanto, FL  — 200 6,900  371 200 7,271 2,705  2004 1986 2341 W. Norvell Bryant Hwy .
Lenexa, KS  — 826 26,251  1,285 922 27,440 6,432  2013 2006 15055 West 87th Street Parkway
Leominster , MA  — 944 23,164  688 995 23,801 3,687  2015 1999 1160 Main Street
Lincroft, NJ  — 9 19,958  1,706 79 21,594 4,667  2013 2002 734 Newman Springs Road
Linwood, NJ  — 800 21,984  1,168 861 23,091 5,012  2010 1997 432 Central Ave
Litchfield, CT  — 1,240 17,908  11,060 1,258 28,950 4,862  2010 1998 19 Constitution Way
Little Neck, NY  — 3,350 38,461  1,421 3,358 39,874 8,411 2010 2000 55-15 Little Neck Pkwy .
Livingston, NJ  — 8,000 44,424  160 8,000 44,584 2,119 2015 2017 369 E Mt Pleasant Avenue
Lombard, IL  15,975 2,130 59,943  1,474 2,147 61,400 12,455  2013 2009 2210 Fountain Square Dr
London, UK  — 3,121 10,027  934 3,231 10,851 1,465  2014 2012 71 Hatch Lane
London, UK  — 7,691 16,797  — 7,691 16,797 1,007  2015 2016 6 Victoria Drive
(Dollars in thousands)   
   Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description Encumbrances  Land  Building &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
Acquired  Year
Built  Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:                
London, ON 34 987 8,228 628 1,030 8,813  1,477 2015  1989  760 Horizon Drive
London, ON 11,009  1,969  16,985 1,214 1,998 18,170  3,022 2015  1953  1486 Richmond Street North
London, ON — 1,445  13,631 953 1,579 14,450  2,131 2015  1950  81 Grand Avenue
Longueuil, QC 9,064  3,992  23,71 1 1,778 4,102 25,379  4,144 2015  1989  70 Rue Levis
Los Angeles, CA — — 11,430 1,951 — 13,381  3,690 2008  1971  330 North Hayworth Avenue
Los Angeles, CA 60,018  — 114,438 2,355 — 116,793  28,628 2011 2009  10475 Wilshire Boulevard
Los Angeles, CA — 3,540  19,007 2,583 3,540 21,590  4,919 2012  2001  2051 N. Highland Avenue
Los Angeles, CA — — 28,050 3,370 — 31,420  3,286 2016  2006  4061 Grand View Boulevard
Louisville, KY — 2,420  20,816 1,863 2,420 22,679  5,317 2012  1999  4600 Bowling Boulevard
Louisville, KY 10,562  1,600  20,326 774 1,600 21,100  4,926 2013  2010  6700 Overlook Drive
Lynnfield, MA — 3,165  45,200 2,580 3,507 47,438  10,225 2013  2006  55 Salem Street
Mahwah, NJ — 1,605  27,249 17 1,605 27,266  2,539 2012  2015  15 Edison Road
Malvern, P A — 1,651  17,194 2,128 1,739 19,234  5,499 2013  1998  324 Lancaster Avenue
Mansfield, MA — 3,320  57,01 1 8,714 3,486 65,559  17,826 2011 1998  25 Cobb Street 
Manteca, CA — 1,300  12,125 1,648 1,312 13,761  5,447 2005  1986  430 N. Union Rd.
Maple Ridge, BC 8,159  2,875  11,922 321 2,943 12,175  1,489 2015  2009  12241 224th Street
Marieville, QC 6,198  1,278  12,113 117 1,302 12,206  1,691 2015  2002  425 rue Claude de Ramezay
Markham, ON 36,530  3,727  48,939 1,429 3,825 50,270  13,999 2013  1981  7700 Bayview Avenue
Marlboro, NJ — 2,222  14,888 1,395 2,250 16,255  3,791 2013  2002  3A South Main Street
Medicine Hat, AB 10,262  1,432  14,141 48 1,460 14,161  2,923 2015  1999  223 Park Meadows Drive SE
Melbourne, FL — 7,070  48,257 31,652 7,070 79,909  19,642 2007  2009  7300 Watersong Lane
Melville, NY — 4,280  73,283 4,916 4,313 78,166  15,980 2010  2001  70 Pinelawn Rd
Memphis, TN — 1,800  17,744 1,919 1,800 19,663  5,597 2012  1999  6605 Quail Hollow Road
Meriden, CT — 1,500  14,874 1,429 1,542 16,261  5,727 2011 2001  511 Kensington Avenue 
Metairie, LA 12,521  725 27,708 778 725 28,486  5,596 2013  2009  3732 West Esplanade Ave. S
Middletown, CT — 1,430  24,242 1,986 1,460 26,198  7,799 2011 1999  645 Saybrook Road
Milford, CT — 3,210  17,364 2,328 3,233 19,669  6,536 2011 1999  77 Plains Road 
Mill Creek, WA — 10,150  60,274 1,320 10,179 61,565  18,700 2010  1998  14905 Bothell-Everett Hwy
Milton, ON 13,723  4,542  25,321 1,962 4,627 27,198  3,433 2015  2012  611 Farmstead Drive
Minnetonka, MN — 2,080  24,360 2,571 2,450 26,561  6,303 2012  1999  500 Carlson Parkway
Minnetonka, MN — 920 29,344 1,161 964 30,461  5,900 2013  2006  18605 Old Excelsior Blvd.
Mission Viejo, CA 13,850  6,600  52,118 7,758 6,600 59,876  7,475 2016  1998  27783 Center Drive
Mississauga, ON 8,358  1,602  17,996 621 1,626 18,593  4,140 2013  1984  1130 Bough Beeches Boulevard
Mississauga, ON 2,816  873 4,655 232 887 4,873  1,147 2013  1978  3051 Constitution Boulevard
Mississauga, ON 26,718  3,649  35,137 1,441 3,723 36,504  8,161 2015  1988  1490 Rathburn Road East
Mississauga, ON 5,916  2,548  15,158 1,751 2,589 16,868  3,177 2015  1989  85 King Street East
Missoula, MT — 550 7,490 437 550 7,927  2,767 2005  1998  3620 American Way
Mobberley , UK — 5,146  26,665 1,834 5,340 28,305  7,514 2013  2007  Barclay Park, Hall Lane
Monterey , CA — 6,440  29,101 1,549 6,440 30,650  6,486 2013  2009  1110 Cass St.
Montgomery , MD — 6,482  83,642 10,924 6,482 94,566  3,480 2018  1992  3701 International Dr
Montgomery Village,
MD — 3,530  18,246 6,745 4,279 24,242  9,021 2013  1993  19310 Club House Road
Montreal-Nord, QC 11,740  4,407  23,719 2,992 4,407 26,71 1 511 2018  1988  6700, boulevard Gouin Est
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description Encumbrances Land  Building &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition Land  Building &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:              
Moorestown, NJ — 2,060  51,628 1,982 2,083  53,587  11,069 2010 2000 1205 N. Church St
Moose Jaw , SK 2,076 582 12,973 906 590 13,871  3,039 2013 2001 425 4th Avenue NW
Murphy , TX — 1,950  19,182 805 1,950  19,987  1,781 2015 2012 304 West FM 544
Naperville, IL — 1,550  12,237 2,433 1,550  14,670  3,760 2012 2013 1936 Brookdale Road
Naperville, IL — 1,540  28,204 1,392 1,573  29,563  6,517 2013 2002 535 West Ogden Avenue
Naples, FL 56,105 8,989  119,398 5,055 9,088  124,354  22,444 2015 2000 4800 Aston Gardens Way
Nashua, NH — 1,264  43,026 1,373 1,264  44,399  5,491 2015 1999 674 West Hollis Street
Nashville, TN — 3,900  35,788 2,848 3,900  38,636  10,313 2012 1999 4206 Stammer Place
Needham, MA — 1,240  32,992 1,322 1,240  34,314  2,853 2016 2011 880 Greendale Avenue
Nepean, ON 5,387 1,575  5,770 528 1,613  6,260  1,447 2015 1988 1 Mill Hill Road
New Braunfels, TX — 1,200  19,800 10,352 2,729  28,623  4,906 2011 2009 2294 East Common Street
Newark, DE — 560 21,220 1,569 560 22,789  8,065 2004 1998 200 E. Village Rd.
Newbury , UK — 2,850  12,796 672 2,946  13,372  810 2015 2016 370 London Road
Newburyport, MA — 1,750  29,187 1,194 1,750  30,381  2,656 2016 2015 4 Wallace Bashaw Junior Way
Newmarket, UK — 4,071  11,902 1,190 4,228  12,935  2,005 2014 2011 Jeddah Way
Newton, MA — 2,250  43,614 1,253 2,263  44,854  11,966 2011 1996 2300 Washington Street
Newton, MA 14,881 2,500  30,681 3,183 2,574  33,790  9,409 2011 1996 280 Newtonville Avenue 
Newton, MA — 3,360  25,099 1,820 3,385  26,894  8,053 2011 1994 430 Centre Street
Newtown Square, P A — 1,930  14,420 1,161 1,946  15,565  4,577 2013 2004 333 S. Newtown Street Rd.
Niagara Falls, ON 6,335 1,225  7,963 466 1,242  8,412  1,457 2015 1991 7860 Lundy's Lane
North Andover , MA — 1,960  34,976 2,116 2,111 36,941  10,087 2011 1995 700 Chickering Road 
North Chelmsford, MA — 880 18,478 999 951 19,406  5,126 2011 1998 2 Technology Drive 
North Dartmouth, MA — 1,700  35,337 1,723 1,700  37,060  3,374 2016 1997 239 Cross Road
North Tustin, CA — 2,880  18,059 891 2,975  18,855  3,564 2013 2000 12291 Newport Avenue
Oak Park, IL — 1,250  40,383 1,749 1,250  42,132  9,526 2012 2004 1035 Madison Street
Oakland, CA — 3,877  47,508 3,252 4,036  50,601  10,954 2013 1999 11889 Skyline Boulevard
Oakton, VA — 2,250  37,576 2,218 2,378  39,666  8,352 2013 1997 2863 Hunter Mill Road
Oakville, ON 5,499 1,252  7,382 373 1,278  7,729  1,795 2013 1982 289 and 299 Randall Street
Oakville, ON 9,164 2,134  29,963 1,107 2,165  31,039  7,349 2013 1994 25 Lakeshore Road West
Oakville, ON 4,797 1,271  13,754 606 1,289  14,342  2,929 2013 1988 345 Church Street
Oceanside, CA — 2,160  18,352 4,094 2,243  22,363  6,097 2011 2005 3500 Lake Boulevard
Ogden, UT — 360 6,700 731 360 7,431  2,689 2004 1998 1340 N. Washington Blv .
Okotoks, AB 17,892 714 20,943 557 728 21,486  3,640 2015 2010 51 Riverside Gate
Oshawa, ON 6,547 841 7,570 458 884 7,985  1,834 2013 1991 649 King Street East
Ottawa, ON 9,469 1,341  15,425 1,439 1,396  16,809  2,176 2015 2001 110 Berrigan Drive
Ottawa, ON 17,808 3,454  23,309 1,351 3,559  24,555  6,617 2015 1966 2370 Carling Avenue
Ottawa, ON 20,414 4,256  39,141 — 4,256  39,141  5,917 2015 2005 751 Peter Morand Crescent
Ottawa, ON 7,070 2,103  18,421 3,150 2,180  21,494  3,096 2015 1989 1 Eaton Street
Ottawa, ON 13,444 2,963  26,424 1,880 3,041  28,226  3,647 2015 2008 691 Valin Street
Ottawa, ON 10,161 1,561  18,170 1,336 1,647  19,420  2,412 2015 2006 22 Barnstone Drive
Ottawa, ON 13,568 3,403  31,090 1,941 3,467  32,967  4,134 2015 2009 990 Hunt Club Road
Ottawa, ON 17,204 3,411 28,335 4,152 3,502  32,396  5,257 2015 2009 2 Valley Stream Drive
Ottawa, ON 2,765 724 4,710 231 735 4,930  1,171 2013 1995 1345 Ogilvie Road
(Dollars in thousands)  
    Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description  Encumbrances  Land  Building &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition  Land  Building &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:                 
Ottawa, ON  2,012  818 2,165 1,192  691 3,484 888 2013 1993 370 Kennedy Lane
Ottawa, ON  9,559  2,809  27,299 1,253  2,880  28,481 7,177  2013 1998 43 Aylmer Avenue
Ottawa, ON  4,441  1,156  9,758 481 1,227  10,168 2,151  2013 1998 1351 Hunt Club Road
Ottawa, ON  5,778  746 7,800 541 763 8,324 1,805  2013 1999 140 Darlington Private
Ottawa, ON  8,729  1,176  12,764 778 1,231  13,487 1,876  2015 1987 10 Vaughan Street
Outremont, QC  17,544  6,746  45,981 5,133  6,746  51,114 1,007  2018 1976 1000, avenue Rockland
Palo Alto, CA  — — 39,639 3,055  24 42,670 8,872  2013 2007 2701 El Camino Real
Paramus, NJ  — 2,840  35,728 1,729  2,947  37,350 7,659  2013 1998 567 Paramus Road
Parkland, FL  55,694  4,880  111,481 4,087  4,904  115,544 20,538  2015 2000 5999 University Drive
Paso Robles, CA  — 1,770  8,630 707 1,770  9,337 4,032  2002 1998 1919 Creston Rd.
Peabody , MA  6,012  2,250  16,071 1,099  2,324  17,096 2,858  2013 1994 73 Mar gin Street
Pembroke, ON  — 1,931  9,427 433 1,901  9,890 2,011 2012 1999 1111 Pembroke Street West
Pennington, NJ  — 1,380  27,620 1,115 1,491  28,624 5,562  2011 2000 143 West Franklin Avenue
Peoria, AZ  — 766 21,796 1,635  766 23,431 1,482  2018 2014 13391 N 94th Drive
Pittsbur gh, P A  — 1,580  18,017 925 1,587  18,935 4,437  2013 2009 900 Lincoln Club Dr .
Placentia, CA  — 8,480  17,076 5,087  8,480  22,163 3,576  2016 1987 1180 N Bradford Avenue
Plainview , NY  — 3,066  19,901 1,018  3,182  20,803 4,124  2013 2001 1231 Old Country Road
Plano, TX  — 3,120  59,950 3,124  3,173  63,021 16,579  2013 2006 4800 West Parker Road
Plano, TX  — 1,750  15,390 1,954  1,750  17,344 1,626  2016 2014 3690 Mapleshade Lane
Playa Vista, CA  — 1,580  40,531 1,636  1,605  42,142 8,978  2013 2006 5555 Playa Vista Drive
Plymouth, MA  — 1,444  34,951 1,122  1,453  36,064 5,093  2015 1998 157 South Street
Plymouth, MA  13,169  2,550  35,055 2,256  2,550  37,31 1 3,895  2016 1970 60 Staf ford Hill
Port Perry , ON  11,989  3,685  26,788 2,365  3,747  29,091 3,509  2015 2009 15987 Simcoe Street
Port St. Lucie, FL  — 8,700  47,230 20,478  8,700  67,708 15,304  2008 2010 10685 SW  Stony Creek Way
Princeton, NJ  — 1,730  30,888 1,839  1,810  32,647 6,494  2011 2001 155 Raymond Road
Purley , UK  — 7,365  35,161 2,104  7,625  37,005 8,905  2012 2005 21 Russell Hill Road
Quebec City , QC  8,495  2,420  21,977 1,767  2,420  23,744 466 2018 2000 795, rue Alain
Quebec City , QC  12,067  3,300  28,325 2,207  3,300  30,532 605 2018 1987 650 and 700, avenue Murray
Queensbury , NY  — 1,260  21,744 1,014  1,264  22,754 3,140  2015 1999 27 Woodvale Road
Quincy , MA  — 1,350  12,584 981 1,428  13,487 4,083  2011 1998 2003 Falls Boulevard
Rancho Cucamonga,
CA  — 1,480  10,055 1,848  2,073  11,310 2,978  2013 2001 9519 Baseline Road
Rancho Palos Verdes,
CA  — 5,450  60,034 2,453  5,450  62,487 14,179  2012 2004 5701 Crestridge Road
Randolph, NJ  — 1,540  46,934 1,379  1,619  48,234 9,841  2013 2006 648 Route 10 West
Red Deer , AB  12,026  1,247  19,283 592 1,273  19,849 3,093  2015 2004 3100 - 22 Street
Red Deer , AB  14,153  1,199  22,339 632 1,219  22,951 3,655  2015 2004 10 Inglewood Drive
Redondo Beach, CA  — — 9,557 913 — 10,470 6,436  2011 1957 514 North Prospect Ave
Regina, SK  6,224  1,485  21,148 638 1,525  21,746 5,280  2013 1999 3651 Albert Street
Regina, SK  6,158  1,244  21,036 716 1,267  21,729 4,579  2013 2004 3105 Hillsdale Street
Regina, SK  15,076  1,539  24,053 2,617  1,579  26,630 3,750  2015 1992 1801 McIntyre Street
Rehoboth Beach, DE  — 960 24,248 8,847  993 33,062 6,077  2010 1999 36101 Seaside Blvd
Renton, WA  20,790  3,080  51,824 1,999  3,124  53,779 11,898  2011 2007 104 Burnett Avenue South
Ridgefield, CT  — 3,100  80,614 5,250  3,152  85,812 13,614  2015 1998 640 Danbury Road
(Dollars in thousands)  
   Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description Encumbrances  Land  Building &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition  Land  Building &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
Acquired  Year
Built Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:                 
Riviere-du-Loup, QC 2,892  592 7,601 761 590 8,364  1,150 2015  1956 35 des Cedres
Riviere-du-Loup, QC 11,905  1,454  16,848 3,500  1,563  20,239  3,453 2015  1993 230-235 rue Des Chenes
Rocky Hill, CT — 1,090  6,710 1,534  1,090  8,244  3,089 2003  1996 60 Cold Spring Rd.
Rocky Hill, CT — 810 16,351 833 926 17,068  4,679 2011 2000 1160 Elm Street
Rohnert Park, CA — 6,500  18,700 2,205  6,556  20,849  7,644 2005  1986 4855 Snyder Lane
Romeoville, IL — 854 12,646 61,135  6,197  68,438  16,480 2006  2010 605 S Edward Dr .
Roseville, MN — 1,540  35,877 1,053  1,607  36,863  7,263 2013  2002 2555 Snelling Avenue, North
Roseville, CA — 3,300  41,652 6,273  3,300  47,925  6,003 2016  2000 5161 Foothills Boulevard
Sacramento, CA — 940 14,781 314 952 15,083  4,097 2010  1978 6350 Riverside Blvd
Sacramento, CA — 1,300  23,394 1,402  1,369  24,727  5,105 2013  2004 345 Munroe Street
Saint-Lambert, QC 33,431  10,259  61,903 366 10,499  62,029  12,901 2015  1989 1705 Avenue Victoria
Salem, NH — 980 32,721 4,326  1,054  36,973  8,805 2011 2000 242 Main Street
Salinas, CA — 5,110 41,424 7,694  5,110 49,118 7,379 2016  1990 1320 Padre Drive
Salisbury , UK — 2,720  15,269 719 2,812  15,896  2,011 2014  2013 Shapland Close
Salt Lake City , UT — 1,360  19,691 1,601  1,360  21,292  6,988 2011 1986 1430 E. 4500 S.
San Angelo, TX — 260 8,800 459 266 9,253  3,349 2004  1997 2695 Valleyview Blvd.
San Antonio, TX — 6,120  28,169 2,590  6,120  30,759  6,071 2010  2011 2702 Cembalo Blvd
San Antonio, TX — 5,045  58,048 3,228  5,045  61,276  3,306 2017  2015 11300 Wild Pine
San Diego, CA — 4,200  30,707 731 4,243  31,395  5,825 2011 2011 2567 Second Avenue
San Diego, CA — 5,810  63,078 2,808  5,810  65,886  17,092 2012  2001 13075 Evening Creek Drive S
San Diego, CA — 3,000  27,164 881 3,016  28,029  5,495 2013  2003 810 Turquoise Street
San Francisco, CA — 5,920  91,639 12,609  5,920  104,248  13,874 2016  1998 1550 Sutter Street
San Francisco, CA — 11,800  77,214 9,969  11,800  87,183  11,932 2016  1923 1601 19th Avenue
San Gabriel, CA — 3,120  15,566 948 3,138  16,496  3,797 2013  2005 8332 Huntington Drive
San Jose, CA — 2,850  35,098 811 2,858  35,901  8,000 2011 2009 1420 Curvi Drive
San Jose, CA — 3,280  46,823 3,149  3,280  49,972  11,218 2012  2002 500 S Winchester Boulevard
San Jose, CA — 11,900  27,647 4,820  11,900  32,467  4,801 2016  2002 4855 San Felipe Road
San Juan Capistrano,
CA — 1,390  6,942 1,450  1,390  8,392  3,797 2000  2001 3031 1 Camino Capistrano
San Rafael, CA — 1,620  27,392 2,858  1,832  30,038  3,412 2016  2001 111 Merrydale Road
San Ramon, CA — 8,700  72,223 9,628  8,700  81,851  11,263 2016  1992 9199 Fircrest Lane
Sandy Springs, GA — 2,214  8,360 1,307  2,220  9,661  2,733 2012  1997 5455 Glenridge Drive NE
Santa Maria, CA — 6,050  50,658 3,231  6,089  53,850  14,846 2011 2001 1220 Suey Road
Santa Monica, CA 18,727  5,250  28,340 950 5,263  29,277  6,184 2013  2004 1312 15th Street
Santa Rosa, CA — 2,250  26,273 3,303  2,250  29,576  3,623 2016  2001 4225 Wayvern Drive
Saskatoon, SK 3,840  981 13,905 501 995 14,392  2,916 2013  1999 220 24th Street East
Saskatoon, SK 13,125  1,382  17,609 766 1,403  18,354  3,632 2013  2004 1622 Acadia Drive
Schaumbur g, IL — 2,460  22,863 1,175  2,497  24,001  5,884 2013  2001 790 North Plum Grove Road
Scottsdale, AZ — 2,500  3,890 1,664  2,500  5,554  1,614 2008  1998 9410 East Thunderbird Road
Seal Beach, CA — 6,204  72,954 2,078  6,271  74,965  19,259 2013  2004 3850 Lampson Avenue
Seattle, WA — 5,190  9,350 748 5,199  10,089  3,616 2010  1962 11501 15th Ave NE
Seattle, WA 27,180  10,670  37,291 1,094  10,700  38,355  12,353 2010  2005 805 4th Ave N
Seattle, WA 48,540  6,790  85,369 3,258  6,825  88,592  20,335 2011 2009 5300 24th Avenue NE
Seattle, WA — 1,150  19,887 1,284  1,153  21,168  2,724 2015  1995 11039 17th Avenue
(Dollars in thousands)  
    Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description  Encumbrances  LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition  Land  Building &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:                
Selbyville, DE  — 750 25,912 508 769 26,401 5,564  2010 2008 21111 Arrington Dr
Sevenoaks, UK  — 6,181 40,240 4,176  6,390  44,207 10,318  2012 2009 64 - 70 Westerham Road
Severna Park, MD  — — 67,623 5,574  24 73,173 8,947  2016 1997 43 W McKinsey Road
Shelburne, VT  — 720 31,041 1,966  777 32,950 8,191  2011 1988 687 Harbor Road
Shelby Township, MI  — 1,040 26,344 1,439  1,105  27,718 5,566  2013 2006 46471 Hayes Road
Shelton, CT  — 2,246 33,967 42 2,246  34,009 3,424  2013 2014 708A  Bridgeport Avenue
Shrewsbury , NJ  — 2,120 38,116 1,244  2,138  39,342 8,247  2010 2000 5 Meridian Way
Shrewsbury , MA  — 950 26,824 1,397  956 28,215 4,209  2015 1997 3111 Main Street
Sidcup, UK  — 7,446 56,570 3,312  7,714  59,614 15,051  2012 2000 Frognal Avenue
Simi Valley , CA  — 3,200 16,664 1,092  3,298  17,658 4,909  2013 2009 190 Tierra Rejada Road
Simi Valley , CA  — 5,510 51,406 8,073  5,510  59,479 8,314  2016 2003 5300 E Los Angeles Avenue
Solihull, UK  — 5,070 43,297 4,211 5,241  47,337 10,579  2012 2009 1270 Warwick Road
Solihull, UK  — 3,571 26,053 1,429  3,692  27,361 6,320  2013 2007 1 Worcester Way
Solihull, UK  — 1,851 10,585 499 1,913  11,022 770 2015 2016 Warwick Road
Sonning, UK  — 5,644 42,155 2,660  5,853  44,606 9,317  2013 2009 Old Bath Rd.
Sonoma, CA  — 1,100 18,400 1,773  1,109  20,164 7,332  2005 1988 800 Oregon St.
Sonoma, CA  — 2,820 21,890 2,683  2,820  24,573 3,043  2016 2005 91 Napa Road
St. Albert, AB  7,432  1,145 17,863 1,854  1,185  19,677 5,098  2014 2005 78C McKenney Avenue
St. John's, NL  5,444  706 11,765 73 711 11,833 1,575  2015 2005 64 Portugal Cove Road
Stittsville, ON  4,237  1,175 17,397 753 1,192  18,133 3,630  2013 1996 1340 - 1354 Main Street
Stockport, UK  — 4,369 25,018 1,329  4,521  26,195 6,471  2013 2008 1 Dairyground Road
Stockton, CA  — 2,280 5,983 513 2,372  6,404 2,006  2010 1988 6725 Inglewood
Studio City , CA  — 4,006 25,307 1,151  4,109  26,355 6,453  2013 2004 4610 Coldwater Canyon Avenue
Sugar Land, TX  — 960 31,423 1,339  960 32,762 8,143  2011 1996 1221 Seventh St
Sugar Land, TX  — 4,272 60,493 6,530  4,272  67,023 4,864  2017 2015 744 Brooks Street
Sun City , FL  20,951  6,521 48,476 5,134  6,648  53,483 11,537  2015 1995 231 Courtyards
Sun City , FL  23,606  5,040 50,923 4,577  5,369  55,171 10,639  2015 1999 1311 Aston Gardens Court
Sunnyvale, CA  — 5,420 41,682 2,155  5,420  43,837 10,239  2012 2002 1039 East El Camino Real
Surrey , BC  6,323  3,605 18,818 1,018  3,658  19,783 5,725  2013 2000 16028 83rd Avenue
Surrey , BC  15,142  4,552 22,338 1,332  4,631  23,591 7,190  2013 1987 15501 16th Avenue
Sutton, UK  — 4,096 14,532 730 4,234  15,124 851 2015 2016 123 Westmead Road
Suwanee, GA  — 1,560 11,538 1,665  1,560  13,203 3,281  2012 2000 4315 Johns Creek Parkway
Sway , UK  — 4,145 15,508 1,113 4,334  16,432 3,004  2014 2008 Sway Place
Swift Current, SK  1,871  492 10,119 455 505 10,561 2,324  2013 2001 301 Macoun Drive
Tacoma, WA  17,640  2,400 35,053 1,276  2,493  36,236 8,057  2011 2008 7290 Rosemount Circle
Tacoma, WA  — 1,535 6,068 67 1,537  6,133 1,095  2015 2012 7290 Rosemount Circle
Tacoma, WA  — 4,170 73,377 12,917  4,170  86,294 11,797  2016 1987 8201 6th Avenue
Tampa, FL  69,330  4,910 114,148 5,229  4,996  119,291 20,181  2015 2001 12951 W Linebaugh Avenue
Tewksbury , MA  — 2,350 24,118 2,172  2,350  26,290 3,205  2016 2006 2000 Emerald Court
The Woodlands, TX  — 480 12,379 679 480 13,058 3,238  2011 1999 7950 Bay Branch Dr
Toledo, OH  — 2,040 47,129 3,722  2,144  50,747 15,040  2010 1985 3501 Executive Parkway
Toms River , NJ  — 1,610 34,627 1,077  1,681  35,633 7,529  2010 2005 1587 Old Freehold Rd
Toronto, ON  17,086  2,927 20,713 1,635  2,997  22,278 3,323  2015 1900 54 Foxbar Road
(Dollars in thousands)   
   Initial Cost to Company    Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description  Encumbrances LandBuilding &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition  LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built  Address
Seniors Housing
Operating:                
Toronto, ON  8,268 5,082 25,493  1,375  5,178 26,772 5,294  2015 1988  645 Castlefield Avenue
Toronto, ON  12,478 2,008 19,620  — 2,008 19,620 3,033  2015 1999  4251 Dundas Street West
Toronto, ON  36,296 5,132 41,657  2,931  5,209 44,51 1 10,383  2015 1964  10 William Mor gan Drive
Toronto, ON  4,268 2,480 7,571  492 2,527 8,016 1,724  2015 1971  123 Spadina Road
Toronto, ON  1,217 1,079 5,364  269 1,095 5,617 1,246  2013 1982  25 Centennial Park Road
Toronto, ON  7,531 2,513 19,695  969 2,583 20,594 3,845  2013 2002  305 Balliol Street
Toronto, ON  17,407 3,400 32,757  1,488  3,456 34,189 7,774  2013 1973  1055 and 1057 Don Mills Road
Toronto, ON  751 1,361 2,915  303 1,414 3,165 1,155  2013 1985  3705 Bathurst Street
Toronto, ON  5,685 1,447 3,918  358 1,494 4,229 1,147  2013 1987  1340 York Mills Road
Toronto, ON  30,679 5,304 53,488  2,130  5,387 55,535 15,694  2013 1988  8 The Donway East
Torrance, CA  — 3,497 73,138  16 3,497 73,154 4,639  2016 2016  25525 Hawthorne Boulevard
Tulsa, OK  — 1,330 21,285  4,417  1,362 25,670 7,149  2010 1986  8887 South Lewis Ave
Tulsa, OK  — 1,500 20,861  3,934  1,581 24,714 7,228  2010 1984  9524 East 71st St
Tustin, CA  — 840 15,299  744 840 16,043 3,784  2011 1965  240 East 3rd St
Upland, CA  — 3,160 42,596  55 3,160 42,651 5,414  2015 2014  2419 North Euclid Avenue
Upper Providence, P A — 1,900 28,195  37 1,900 28,232 2,719  2013 2015  1133 Black Rock Road
Upper St Claire, P A — 1,102 13,455  1,396  1,125 14,828 3,714  2013 2005  500 Village Drive
Vacaville, CA  — 900 17,100  1,756  907 18,849 7,022  2005 1987  799 Yellowstone Dr .
Vallejo, CA  — 4,000 18,000  2,476  4,030 20,446 7,573  2005 1989  350 Locust Dr .
Vallejo, CA  — 2,330 15,407  390 2,330 15,797 4,505  2010 1990  2261 Tuolumne
Vancouver , WA  — 1,820 19,042  438 1,821 19,479 5,299  2010 2006  1001 1 NE 1 18th Ave
Vancouver , BC  — 7,282 6,572  — 7,282 6,572 5,332  2015 1974  2803 West 41st Avenue
Vankleek Hill, ON  750 389 2,960  293 400 3,242 820 2013 1987  48 Wall Street
Vaudreuil, QC  7,822 1,852 14,214  546 1,829 14,783 2,234  2015 1975  333 rue Querbes
Venice, FL  64,425 6,820 100,501  4,362  6,892 104,791 19,357  2015 2002  1000 Aston Gardens Drive
Vero Beach, FL  — 2,930 40,070  25,658  2,930 65,728 19,456  2007 2003  7955 16th Manor
Victoria, BC  6,833 2,856 18,038  565 2,898 18,561 4,657  2013 1974  3000 Shelbourne Street
Victoria, BC  6,299 3,681 15,774  555 3,736 16,274 4,244  2013 1988  3051 Shelbourne Street
Victoria, BC  7,064 2,476 15,379  1,020  2,516 16,359 2,115 2015 1990  3965 Shelbourne Street
Virginia Water, UK  — 7,106 29,937  5,937  5,629 37,351 8,494  2012 2002  Christ Church Road
Voorhees, NJ  — 3,700 24,312  1,821  3,854 25,979 4,025  2012 2013  311 Route 73
Wall, NJ  — 1,650 25,350  2,679  1,692 27,987 5,356  2011 2003  2021 Highway 35
Walnut Creek, CA  — 3,700 12,467  2,280  3,808 14,639 4,072  2013 1998  2175 Ygnacio Valley Road
Walnut Creek, CA  — 10,320 100,890  15,190  10,320 116,080 15,633  2016 1988  1580 Geary Road
Waltham, MA  — 2,462 40,062  1,457  2,551 41,430 6,700  2015 2000  126 Smith Street
Washington, DC  30,162 4,000 69,154  3,157  4,004 72,307 14,549  2013 2004  5111 Connecticut Avenue NW
Watchung, NJ  — 1,920 24,880  1,348  2,048 26,100 5,131  2011 2000  680 Mountain Boulevard
Wayland, MA  — 1,207 27,462  2,157  1,334 29,492 6,527  2013 1997  285 Commonwealth Road
Webster Groves, MO  — 1,790 15,425  2,391  1,793 17,813 4,543  2011 2012  45 E Lockwood Avenue
Welland, ON  6,041 983 7,530  94 969 7,638 1,060  2015 2006  110 First Street
Wellesley , MA  — 4,690 77,462  219 4,690 77,681 11,776  2015 2012  23 & 27 Washington Street
West Babylon, NY  — 3,960 47,085  2,224  3,960 49,309 9,640  2013 2003  580 Montauk Highway
West Bloomfield, MI  — 1,040 12,300  835 1,094 13,081 2,977  2013 2000  7005 Pontiac Trail
(Dollars in thousands)   
   Initial Cost to Company    Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description  Encumbrances Land  Building &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
Acquisition  LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built  Address
Seniors
Housing
Operating:                 
West Hills, CA  — 2,600  7,521  1,545  2,636 9,030 2,681  2013 2002  9012 Topanga Canyon Road
West
Vancouver , BC 17,668 7,059  28,155  1,997  7,168 30,043 7,104  2013 1987  2095 Marine Drive
Westbourne,
UK  — 5,441  41,420  3,300  5,627 44,534 9,612  2013 2006  16-18 Poole Road
Westford, MA  — 1,440  32,607  319 1,468 32,898 4,202  2015 2013  108 Littleton Road
Weston, MA  — 1,160  6,200  1,274  1,160 7,474 1,583  2013 1998  135 North Avenue
Westworth
Village, TX  — 2,060  31,296  60 2,060 31,356 3,346  2014 2014  25 Leonard Trail
Weybridge, UK  — 7,899  48,240  2,386  8,166 50,359 12,363  2013 2008  Ellesmere Road
Weymouth, UK  — 2,591  16,551  880 2,714 17,308 2,114 2014 2013  Cross Road
White Oak, MD  — 2,304  24,768  1,936  2,316 26,692 5,465  2013 2002  11621 New Hampshire Avenue
Wilmington, DE  — 1,040  23,338  1,771  1,129 25,020 5,281  2013 2004  2215 Shipley Street
Winchester , UK — 6,009  29,405  1,472  6,220 30,666 7,194  2012 2010  Stockbridge Road
Winnipeg, MB  11,756 1,960  38,612  2,244  2,058 40,758 12,275  2013 1999  857 Wilkes Avenue
Winnipeg, MB  14,961 1,276  21,732  1,083  1,419 22,672 4,820  2013 1988  3161 Grant Avenue
Winnipeg, MB  12,124 1,317  15,609  1,864  1,346 17,444 3,116 2015 1999  125 Portsmouth Boulevard
Woking, UK  — 2,990  12,523  — 2,990 12,523 363 2016 2017  12 Streets Heath, West End
Wolverhampton,
UK  — 2,941  8,922  724 3,047 9,540 3,114 2013 2008  73 Wergs Road
Woodbridge,
CT  — 1,370  14,219  1,594  1,426 15,757 5,754  2011 1998  21 Bradley Road
Woodland Hills,
CA  — 3,400  20,478  1,079  3,447 21,510 5,278  2013 2005  20461 Ventura Boulevard
Worcester , MA  — 1,140  21,664  1,382  1,166 23,020 6,192  2011 1999  340 May Street 
Yarmouth, ME  — 450 27,71 1 1,410  484 29,087 7,458  2011 1999  27 Forest Falls Drive
Yonkers, NY  — 3,962  50,107  2,111 3,967 52,213 10,824  2013 2005  65 Crisfield Street
Yorkton, SK  3,085 463 8,760  340 473 9,090 2,004  2013 2001  94 Russell Drive
Seniors
Housing
Operating
Total  $ 1,810,587 $1,331,171 $14,047,033 $1,206,757 $1,373,258 $15,21 1,900 $ 2,962,334   
104
Welltower Inc.  
Schedule III  
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  
December 31, 2018  
(Dollars in thousands)   Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description  Encumbrances Land  Building &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
Acquisition Land  Building &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:             
Abilene, TX  $ — $ 950 $ 20,987  $ 11,660 $ 950 $ 32,647 $ 2,632  2014 1998 6565 Central Park Boulevard
Abilene, TX  — 990 8,187  1,089 990 9,276 1,000  2014 1985 1250 East N 10th Street
Aboite Twp, IN  — 1,770  19,930  1,601 1,770  21,531 4,613  2010 2008 611 W County Line Rd South
Adelphi, MD  — 1,429  4,312  — 1,429  4,312 56 2018 1967 1801 Metzerott Road
Agawam, MA  — 880 16,112 2,134 880 18,246 8,048  2002 1993 1200 Suf field St.
Akron, OH  — 633 3,003  — 633 3,003 37 2018 1999 171 North Cleveland Massillon Road
Albertville, AL  — 170 6,203  353 176 6,550 1,796  2010 1999 151 Woodham Dr .
Alexandria, VA  — 2,452  6,829  — 2,452  6,829 81 2018 1964 1510 Collingwood Road
Allen Park, MI  — 1,767  5,027  — 1,767  5,027 60 2018 1960 9150 Allen Road
Allentown, P A  — 494 11,849  — 494 11,849 138 2018 1995 5151 Hamilton Boulevard
Allentown, P A  — 1,491  4,823  — 1,491  4,823 59 2018 1988 1265 Cedar Crest Boulevard
Ames, IA  — 330 8,870  — 330 8,870 2,075  2010 1999 1325 Coconino Rd.
Ankeny , IA  — 1,129  10,270  — 1,129  10,270 813 2016 2012 1275 SW  State Street
Ann Arbor , MI  — 2,172  11,127  — 2,172  11,127 140 2018 1997 4701 East Huron River Drive
Annandale, VA  — 1,687  18,980  — 1,687  18,980 216 2018 2002 7104 Braddock Road
Arlington, TX  — 1,660  37,395  1,825 1,660  39,220 9,668  2012 2000 1250 West Pioneer Parkway
Arlington, VA  — 4,016  8,805  — 4,016  8,805 102 2018 1976 550 South Carlin Southprings Road
Asheboro, NC  — 290 5,032  165 290 5,197 2,142  2003 1998 514 Vision Dr .
Asheville, NC  — 204 3,489  — 204 3,489 1,858  1999 1999 4 Walden Ridge Dr .
Asheville, NC  — 280 1,955  351 280 2,306 1,034  2003 1992 308 Overlook Rd.
Atchison, KS  — 140 5,610  23 140 5,633 475 2015 2001 1301 N 4th St.
Atlanta, GA  — 2,058  14,914  1,214 2,080  16,106 11,826  1997 1999 1460 S Johnson Ferry Rd.
Aurora, OH  — 1,760  14,148  106 1,760  14,254 3,369  2011 2002 505 S. Chillicothe Rd
Aurora, CO  — 2,440  28,172  — 2,440  28,172 11,394  2006 2007 1421 1 E. Evans Ave.
Austin, TX  — 880 9,520  1,299 885 10,814 5,784  1999 1998 12429 Scofield Farms Dr .
Austin, TX  — 1,691  5,006  — 1,691  5,006 78 2018 2000 11630 Four Iron Drive
Avon, IN  — 1,830  14,470  — 1,830  14,470 3,534  2010 2004 182 S Country RD. 550E
Avon, IN  — 900 19,444  — 900 19,444 2,329  2014 2013 10307 E. CR 100 N
Avon, CT  — 2,132  7,627  — 2,132  7,627 109 2018 2000 100 Fisher Drive
Avon Lake, OH  — 790 10,421  5,822 790 16,243 3,136  2011 2001 345 Lear Rd.
Baldwin City , KS  — 190 4,810  55 190 4,865 420 2015 2000 321 Crimson Ave
Baltimore, MD  — 4,306  4,305  — 4,306  4,305 55 2018 1978 6600 Ridge Road
Baltimore, MD  — 3,069  3,150  — 3,069  3,150 43 2018 1996 4669 Falls Road
Barberton, OH  — 1,307  9,313  — 1,307  9,313 108 2018 1979 85 Third Street
Bartlesville, OK  — 100 1,380  — 100 1,380 828 1996 1995 5420 S.E. Adams Blvd.
Battle Creek, MI  — 857 1,822  — 857 1,822 30 2018 1965 200 Roosevelt Avenue East
Bay City , MI  — 633 2,620  — 633 2,620 35 2018 1968 800 Mulholland Street
Bedford, P A  — 637 4,434  — 637 4,434 61 2018 1965 136 Donahoe Manor Road
Bellingham, WA  — 1,500  19,861  396 1,507  20,250 5,450  2010 1996 4415 Columbine Dr .
Benbrook, TX  — 1,550  13,553  2,657 1,550  16,210 3,016  2011 1984 4242 Bryant Irvin Road
(Dollars in thousands)   Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description Encumbrances Land Building &
ImprovementsCost
CapitalizedLand Building &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
Acquired Year
Built Address
Subsequent
to
Acquisition
Triple-net:           
Bethel Park, P A  — 1,700 16,007 — 1,700 16,007 4,274 2007  2009  5785 Baptist Road
Bethel Park, P A  — 1,008 6,742 — 1,008 6,742 83 2018  1986  60 Highland Road
Bethesda, MD  — 2,218 6,871 — 2,218 6,871 78 2018  1974  6530 Democracy Boulevard
Bethlehem, P A  — 1,191 16,892 — 1,191 16,892 187 2018  1979  2021 Westgate Drive
Bethlehem, P A  — 1,143 13,592 — 1,143 13,592 152 2018  1982  2029 Westgate Drive
Beverly Hills, CA  — 6,000 13,385 — 6,000 13,385 1,420 2014  2000  220 N Clark Drive
Bexleyheath, UK  — 3,750 10,807 493 3,877 11,173 1,210 2014  1996  35 West Street
Bingham Farms, MI  — 781 15,676 — 781 15,676 180 2018  1999  24005 West 13 Mile Road
Birmingham, UK  — 1,647 14,853 558 1,703 15,355 1,491 2015  2010  Clinton Street, Winson Green
Birmingham, UK  — 1,591 19,092 700 1,645 19,738 1,888 2015  2010  Braymoor Road, Tile Cross
Birmingham, UK  — 1,462 9,056 355 1,511 9,362 923 2015  2010  Clinton Street, Winson Green
Birmingham, UK  — 1,184 10,085 381 1,224 10,426 1,005 2015  1997  122 Tile Cross Road, Garretts Green
Bloomington, IN  — 670 17,423 — 670 17,423 1,651 2015  2015  363 S. Fieldstone Boulevard
Boardman, OH  — 1,200 12,800 — 1,200 12,800 4,308 2008  2008  8049 South Ave.
Boca Raton, FL  — 2,200 4,976 — 2,200 4,976 74 2018  1994  7225 Boca Del Mar Drive
Boca Raton, FL  — 2,826 4,063 — 2,826 4,063 54 2018  1984  375 Northwest 51st Street
Boulder , CO  — 3,601 21,371 — 3,601 21,371 263 2018  1990  2800 Palo Parkway
Bowling Green, KY  — 3,800 26,700 149 3,800 26,849 7,094 2008  1992  1300 Campbell Lane
Boynton Beach, FL  — 2,138 10,204 — 2,138 10,204 128 2018  1991  3600 Old Boynton Road
Boynton Beach, FL  — 2,804 14,226 — 2,804 14,226 163 2018  1984  3001 South Congress Avenue
Bracknell, UK  — 4,081 11,470 — 4,081 11,470 405 2014  2017  Bagshot Road
Bradenton, FL  — 252 3,298 — 252 3,298 1,991 1996  1995  6101 Pointe W. Blvd.
Bradenton, FL  — 480 9,953 — 480 9,953 1,714 2012  2000  2800 60th Avenue West
Braintree, MA  — 170 7,157 1,290 170 8,447 8,433 1997  1968  1102 Washington St.
Braintree, UK  — — 13,296 450 — 13,746 1,570 2014  2009  Meadow Park Tortoiseshell Way
Brandon, MS  — 1,220 10,241 8 1,220 10,249 2,291 2010  1999  140 Castlewoods Blvd
Brecksville, OH  — 990 19,353 — 990 19,353 2,309 2014  2011 8757 Brecksville Road
Brentwood, UK  36,589 8,537 45,869 1,998 8,826 47,578 2,534 2016  2013  London Road
Brick, NJ  — 1,290 25,247 996 1,290 26,243 5,086 2011 2000  458 Jack Martin Blvd.
Bridgewater , NJ  — 1,800 31,810 1,397 1,800 33,207 6,365 2011 2001  680 US-202/206 North
Brookfield, WI  — 1,300 12,830 — 1,300 12,830 1,779 2012  2013  1105 Davidson Road
Brooks, AB  1,757 376 4,951 80 381 5,026 586 2014  2000  951 Cassils Road West
Bucyrus, OH  — 1,119 2,612 — 1,119 2,612 37 2018  1976  1170 West Mansfield Street
Burleson, TX  — 670 13,985 2,105 670 16,090 3,142 2011 1988  300 Huguley Boulevard
Burlington, NC  — 280 4,297 707 280 5,004 2,037 2003  2000  3619 S. Mebane St.
Burlington, NC  — 460 5,467 — 460 5,467 2,271 2003  1997  3615 S. Mebane St.
Burlington, NJ  — 1,700 12,554 501 1,700 13,055 3,231 2011 1965  115 Sunset Road
Burlington, NJ  — 1,170 19,205 172 1,170 19,377 4,109 2011 1994  2305 Rancocas Road
Burnaby , BC  7,326 7,623 13,844 320 7,736 14,051 1,664 2014  2006  7195 Canada Way
Calgary , AB  14,921 2,341 42,768 726 2,376 43,459 4,882 2014  1971  1729-90th Avenue SW
Calgary , AB  24,745 4,569 70,199 1,109 4,636 71,241 7,933 2014  2001  500 Midpark Way SE
Camberley , UK  — 9,974 39,168 — 9,974 39,168 1,574 2016  2017  Pembroke Broadway
Camp Hill, P A  — 517 3,597 — 517 3,597 43 2018  1970  1700 Market Street
Canonsbur g, PA  — 911 4,830 — 911 4,830 63 2018  1986  113 West McMurray Road
Canton, OH  — 300 2,098 — 300 2,098 1,115 1998  1998  1119 Perry Dr ., N.W .
(Dollars in thousands)   Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description  Encumbrances LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
Acquired  Year
Built  Address
Triple-net:           
Canton, MI  — 1,399 16,971 — 1,399 16,971 195 2018  2005  7025 Lilley Road
Cape Coral, FL  — 530 3,281 — 530 3,281 1,473 2002  2000  911 Santa Barbara Blvd.
Cape Coral, FL  8,337 760 18,868 — 760 18,868 3,282 2012  2009  831 Santa Barbara Boulevard
Cape May Court
House, NJ  — 1,440 17,002 1,775 1,440 18,777 2,265 2014  1990  144 Magnolia Drive
Carlisle, P A  — 978 8,207 — 978 8,207 100 2018  1987  940 Walnut Bottom Road
Carmel, IN  — 1,700 19,491 1 1,700 19,492 1,971 2015  2015  12315 Pennsylvania Street
Carmel, IN  — 1,583 6,071 — 1,583 6,071 80 2018  1985  12999 North Pennsylvania Street
Carmel, IN  — — 2,296 — — 2,296 25 2018  1985  12999 North Pennsylvania Street
Carrollton, TX  — 2,010 19,549 — 2,010 19,549 1,194 2014  2016  2645 East Trinity Mills Road
Cary , NC  — 1,500 4,350 986 1,500 5,336 2,698 1998  1996  111 MacArthur
Castleton, IN  — 920 15,137 — 920 15,137 1,885 2014  2013  8405 Clearvista Lake
Cedar Grove, NJ  — 2,850 27,737 20 2,850 27,757 5,981 2011 1970  536 Ridge Road
Cedar Rapids, IA  — 596 9,354 — 596 9,354 105 2018  1965  1940 1st Avenue Northeast
Centerville, OH  — 920 3,960 — 920 3,960 69 2018  1997  1001 E. Alex Bell Road
Centreville, MD  — 600 14,602 241 600 14,843 3,242 2011 1978  205 Armstrong Avenue
Chagrin Falls, OH  — 832 10,841 — 832 10,841 130 2018  1999  8100 East Washington Street
Chambersbur g, PA  — 1,373 8,864 — 1,373 8,864 112 2018  1976  1070 Stouf fer Avenue
Chapel Hill, NC  — 354 2,646 783 354 3,429 1,508 2002  1997  100 Lanark Rd.
Charleston, SC  — 1,333 5,556 — 1,333 5,556 67 2018  1982  1137 Sam Rittenber g Boulevard
Charleston, WV  — 440 17,575 306 440 17,881 3,680 2011 1998  1000 Association Drive, North Gate
Business Park
Chatham, VA  — 320 14,039 — 320 14,039 1,814 2014  2009  100 Rorer Street
Cherry Hill, NJ  — 1,416 9,874 — 1,416 9,874 123 2018  1997  2700 Chapel Avenue West
Chester , VA  — 1,320 18,127 — 1,320 18,127 2,292 2014  2009  12001 Iron Bridge Road
Chevy Chase, MD  — 4,515 8,688 — 4,515 8,688 102 2018  1964  8700 Jones Mill Road
Chickasha, OK  — 85 1,395 — 85 1,395 831 1996  1996  801 Country Club Rd.
Chillicothe, OH  — 1,145 8,997 — 1,145 8,997 105 2018  1977  1058 Columbus Street
Cincinnati, OH  — 912 14,014 — 912 14,014 166 2018  2000  6870 Clough Pike
Citrus Heights, CA  — 5,207 31,725 — 5,207 31,725 354 2018  1988  7807 Upland Way
Claremore, OK  — 155 1,427 6,130 155 7,557 1,597 1996  1996  1605 N. Hwy . 88
Clarksville, TN  — 330 2,292 — 330 2,292 1,213 1998  1998  2183 Memorial Dr .
Clayton, NC  — 520 15,733 — 520 15,733 1,771 2014  2013  84 Johnson Estate Road
Cleburne, TX  — 520 5,369 — 520 5,369 1,669 2006  2007  402 S Colonial Drive
Clevedon, UK  — 2,838 16,927 667 2,933 17,499 1,998 2014  1994  18/19 Elton Road
Cobham, UK  — 9,808 24,991 1,176 10,139 25,836 3,657 2013  2013  Redhill Road
Colchester , CT  — 980 4,860 544 980 5,404 1,444 2011 1986  59 Harrington Court
Colorado Springs, CO  — 4,280 62,168 — 4,280 62,168 5,328 2015  2008  1605 Elm Creek View
Colorado Springs, CO  — 1,730 25,493 693 1,730 26,186 1,972 2016  2016  2818 Grand Vista Circle
Columbia, TN  — 341 2,295 — 341 2,295 1,218 1999  1999  5011 Trotwood Ave.
Columbia, SC  — 1,699 2,320 — 1,699 2,320 30 2018  1968  2601 Forest Drive
Columbia Heights, MN  — 825 14,175 163 825 14,338 2,738 2011 2009  3807 Hart Boulevard
Columbus, IN  — 610 3,190 — 610 3,190 764 2010  1998  2564 Foxpointe Dr .
Concord, NC  — 550 3,921 55 550 3,976 1,782 2003  1997  2452 Rock Hill Church Rd.
Concord, NH  — 1,760 43,179 634 1,760 43,813 9,027 2011 1994  239 Pleasant Street
Congleton, UK  — 2,036 5,120 241 2,104 5,293 575 2014  1994  Rood Hill
Conroe, TX  — 980 7,771 — 980 7,771 1,965 2009  2010  903 Longmire Road
(Dollars in thousands)    Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description  Encumbrances  Land  Building &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:            
Coppell, TX  — 1,550  8,386  100 1,550 8,486 1,347  2012 2013 1530 East Sandy Lake Road
Corby , UK  — 1,228  5,144  398 1,157 5,613 248 2017 1997 25 Rockingham Road
Coventry , UK  — 1,962  13,830  533 2,028 14,297 1,430  2015 2014 Banner Lane, Tile Hill
Crawfordsville, IN  — 720 17,239  1,426 720 18,665 2,245  2014 2013 517 Concord Road
Dallastown, P A  — 1,377  16,802  — 1,377 16,802 200 2018 1979 100 West Queen Street
Danville, VA  — 410 3,954  722 410 4,676 1,963  2003 1998 149 Executive Ct.
Danville, VA  — 240 8,436  — 240 8,436 1,087  2014 1996 508 Rison Street
Daphne, AL  — 2,880  8,670  384 2,880 9,054 1,625  2012 2001 27440 County Road 13
Davenport, IA  — 566 2,017  — 566 2,017 25 2018 1966 815 East Locust Street
Davenport, IA  — 910 20,043  — 910 20,043 231 2018 2008 3800 Commerce Blvd.
Dayton, OH  — 1,188  5,414  — 1,188 5,414 69 2018 1977 1974 North Fairfield Road
Dearborn Heights, MI  — 1,197  3,396  — 1,197 3,396 47 2018 1964 26001 Ford Road
Decatur , GA  — 1,413  13,800  — 1,413 13,800 152 2018 1977 2722 North Decatur Road
Delray Beach, FL  — 1,158  13,576  — 1,158 13,576 162 2018 1998 16150 Jog Road
Delray Beach, FL  — 2,125  11,844  — 2,125 11,844 146 2018 1998 16200 Jog Road
Denton, TX  — 1,760  8,305  100 1,760 8,405 1,799  2010 2011 2125 Brinker Rd
Denver , CO  — 1,450  19,389  3,133 1,450 22,522 4,292  2012 1997 4901 South Monaco Street
Denver , CO  — 3,222  24,81 1 — 3,222 24,81 1 275 2018 1988 290 South Monaco Parkway
Derby , UK  — 2,359  8,539  — 2,359 8,539 712 2014 2015 Rykneld Road
Dover , DE  — 600 22,266  141 600 22,407 4,718  2011 1984 1080 Silver Lake Blvd.
Dublin, OH  — 1,393  2,912  — 1,393 2,912 42 2018 2014 4075 W. Dublin-Granville Road
Dubuque, IA  — 568 8,904  — 568 8,904 100 2018 1971 901 West Third Street
Dundalk, MD  — 1,770  32,047  784 1,770 32,831 6,877  2011 1978 7232 German Hill Road
Dunedin, FL  — 1,883  13,329  — 1,883 13,329 151 2018 1983 870 Patricia Avenue
Durham, NC  — 1,476  10,659  2,196 1,476 12,855 11,898  1997 1999 4434 Ben Franklin Blvd.
Eagan, MN  16,470  2,260  31,643  300 2,260 31,943 2,737  2015 2004 3810 Alder Avenue
East Brunswick, NJ  — 1,380  34,229  849 1,380 35,078 6,708  2011 1998 606 Cranbury Rd.
Eastbourne, UK  — 4,071  24,438  964 4,209 25,264 2,847  2014 1999 Carew Road
Easton, P A  — 1,109  7,502  — 1,109 7,502 116 2018 2015 4100 Freemansbur g Avenue
Easton, P A  — 1,430  13,400  — 1,430 13,400 160 2018 1981 2600 Northampton Street
Easton, P A  — 1,620  10,052  — 1,620 10,052 142 2018 2000 4100 Freemansbur g Avenue
Eden, NC  — 390 4,877  — 390 4,877 2,046  2003 1998 314 W. Kings Hwy .
Edmond, OK  — 410 8,388  — 410 8,388 1,543  2012 2001 15401 North Pennsylvania Avenue
Edmond, OK  — 1,810  14,849  2,630 1,810 17,479 2,118 2014 1985 1225 Lakeshore Drive
Edmond, OK  — 1,650  25,167  — 1,650 25,167 1,300  2014 2017 2709 East Danforth Road
Elizabeth City , NC  — 200 2,760  2,011 200 4,771 2,264  1998 1999 400 Hastings Lane
Elk Grove Village, IL  — 1,344  7,076  — 1,344 7,076 88 2018 1995 1940 Ner ge Road Elk
Elk Grove Village, IL  — 3,733  18,751  — 3,733 18,751 207 2018 1988 1920 Ner ge Road
Emeryville, CA  — 2,560  57,491  641 2,560 58,132 6,734  2014 2010 1440 40th Street
Englewood, NJ  — 930 4,514  26 930 4,540 1,075  2011 1966 333 Grand Avenue
Epsom, UK  36,932  20,159  34,803  2,053 20,840 36,175 1,933  2016 2014 450-458 Reigate Road
Eureka, KS  — 50 3,950  71 50 4,021 339 2015 1994 1820 E River St
Everett, WA  — 1,400  5,476  — 1,400 5,476 2,819  1999 1999 2015 Lake Heights Dr .
Exton, P A  — 3,600  27,267  — 3,600 27,267 299 2017 2018 501 Thomas Jones Way
Fairfax, VA  — 1,827  17,309  — 1,827 17,309 208 2018 1997 12469 Lee Jackson Mem Highway
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description Encumbrances LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition Land  Building &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:           
Fairfax, VA — 4,099 17,620 — 4,099  17,620 208 2018 199012475 Lee Jackson Memorial
Highway
Fairhope, AL — 570 9,119 112 570 9,231 1,656  2012 1987 50 Spring Run Road
Fall River , MA — 620 5,829 4,856 620 10,685 5,463  1996 1973 1748 Highland Ave.
Fanwood, NJ — 2,850 55,175 1,123 2,850  56,298 10,633  2011 1982 295 South Ave.
Faribault, MN — 780 11,539 300 780 11,839 964 2015 2003 828 1st Street NE
Farmington, CT — 1,693 10,459 — 1,693  10,459 128 2018 1997 45 South Road
Farnborough, UK — 2,036 5,737 262 2,104  5,931 626 2014 1980 Bruntile Close, Reading Road
Fayetteville, P A — 2,150 32,951 2,013 2,150  34,964 3,114 2015 1991 6375 Chambersbur g Road
Fayetteville, NY — 410 3,962 500 410 4,462 1,973  2001 1997 5125 Highbridge St.
Findlay , OH — 200 1,800 — 200 1,800 1,019  1997 1997 725 Fox Run Rd.
Fishers, IN — 1,500 14,500 — 1,500  14,500 3,540  2010 2000 9745 Olympia Dr .
Fishersville, VA — 788 2,101 — 788 2,101 437 2018 1998 83 Cross Rd Ln
Flint, MI — 1,271 18,056 — 1,271  18,056 202 2018 1969 3011 North Center Road
Florence, NJ — 300 2,978 — 300 2,978 1,332  2002 1999 901 Broad St.
Florence, AL — 353 13,049 223 385 13,240 3,575  2010 1999 3275 County Road 47
Flourtown, P A — 1,800 14,830 266 1,800  15,096 3,297  2011 1908 350 Haws Lane
Flower Mound, TX — 1,800 8,414 100 1,800  8,514 1,539  2011 2012 4141 Long Prairie Road
Floyd, VA — 680 3,618 — 680 3,618 247 2018 1979 237 Franklin Pike Rd SE
Flushing, MI — 690 1,702 — 690 1,702 32 2018 1999 640 Sunnyside Drive
Flushing, MI — 1,415 8,536 — 1,415  8,536 105 2018 1967 540 Sunnyside Drive
Folsom, CA — — 33,600 — 1,582  32,018 5,004  2013 2009 330 Montrose Drive
Forest City , NC — 320 4,497 — 320 4,497 1,902  2003 1999 493 Piney Ridge Rd.
Fort Ashby , WV — 330 19,566 356 330 19,922 4,054  2011 1980 Diane Drive, Box 686
Fort Collins, CO — 3,680 58,608 — 3,680  58,608 5,006  2015 2007 4750 Pleasant Oak Drive
Fort Collins, CO — 890 4,532 — 890 4,532 89 2018 1965 1005 East Elizabeth
Fort Wayne, IN — 170 8,232 — 170 8,232 2,649  2006 2006 2626 Fairfield Ave.
Fort Worth, TX — 450 13,615 5,086 450 18,701 4,213  2010 2011 425 Alabama Ave.
Fort Worth, TX — 2,080 27,888 2,401 2,080  30,289 7,355  2012 2001 2151 Green Oaks Road
Fountain Valley , CA — 5,259 9,379 — 5,259  9,379 110 2018 1988 11680 Warner Avenue
Franconia, NH — 360 11,320 70 360 11,390 2,433  2011 1971 93 Main Street
Fredericksbur g, VA — 1,000 20,000 1,200 1,000  21,200 7,399  2005 1999 3500 Meekins Dr .
Fredericksbur g, VA — 1,130 23,202 — 1,130  23,202 2,704  2014 2010 140 Brimley Drive
Fresno, CA — 2,500 35,800 118 2,500  35,918 9,497  2008 1991 7173 North Sharon Avenue
Ft. Myers, FL — 1,110 10,562 — 1,110 10,562 128 2018 1999 15950 McGregor Boulevard
Ft. Myers, FL — 2,139 18,240 — 2,139  18,240 215 2018 1990 1600 Matthew Drive
Ft. Myers, FL — 2,502 9,744 — 2,502  9,744 139 2018 2000 13881 Eagle Ridge Drive
Galesbur g, IL — 1,708 3,841 — 1,708  3,841 46 2018 1964 280 East Losey Street
Gardner , KS — 200 2,800 93 200 2,893 259 2015 2000 869 Juniper Terrace
Gardnerville, NV — 1,143 10,831 1,118 1,164  11,928 8,904  1998 1999 1565-A  Virginia Ranch Rd.
Gastonia, NC — 470 6,129 — 470 6,129 2,535  2003 1998 1680 S. New Hope Rd.
Gastonia, NC — 310 3,096 22 310 3,118 1,355  2003 1994 1717 Union Rd.
Gastonia, NC — 400 5,029 120 400 5,149 2,143  2003 1996 1750 Robinwood Rd.
Geneva, IL — 1,502 16,198 — 1,502  16,198 191 2018 2000 2388 Bricher Road
Geor getown, TX — 200 2,100 — 200 2,100 1,177  1997 1997 2600 University Dr ., E.
Gig Harbor , WA — 1,560 15,947 275 1,583  16,199 4,269  2010 1994 3213 45th St. Court NW
(Dollars in thousands)   Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description Encumbrances  LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
Acquired  Year
Built  Address
Triple-net:           
Gig Harbor , WA — 3,000 4,463 — 3,000 4,463 64 2018  1990  3309 45th Street Court Northwest
Glen Ellyn, IL — 1,496 6,636 — 1,496 6,636 87 2018  2001  2S706 Park Boulevard
Granbury , TX — 2,550 2,940 777 2,550 3,717 737 2012  1996  916 East Highway 377
Grand Ledge, MI — 1,150 16,286 5,119 1,150 21,405 4,313 2010  1999  4775 Village Dr
Granger , IN — 1,670 21,280 2,401 1,670 23,681 5,011 2010  2009  6330 North Fir Rd
Grapevine, TX — 2,220 17,648 — 2,220 17,648 1,554 2013  2014  4545 Merlot Drive
Great Falls, MT — 630 6,007 — 630 6,007 357 2018  2001  1801 9th Street South
Greeley , CO — 1,077 18,051 — 1,077 18,051 806 2017  2009  5300 West 29th Street
Greenfield, WI — — 15,204 — 890 14,314 2,085 2013  1983  5017 South 1 10th Street
Greensboro, NC — 330 2,970 554 330 3,524 1,506 2003  1996  5809 Old Oak Ridge Rd.
Greensboro, NC — 560 5,507 1,013 560 6,520 2,770 2003  1997  4400 Lawndale Dr .
Greenville, SC — 1,751 8,774 — 1,751 8,774 106 2018  1966  600 Sulphur Springs Road
Greenville, SC — 947 1,445 — 947 1,445 29 2018  1976  601 Sulphur Springs Road
Greenville, NC — 290 4,393 168 290 4,561 1,882 2003  1998  2715 Dickinson Ave.
Greenwood, IN — 1,550 22,770 81 1,550 22,851 4,932 2010  2007  2339 South SR 135
Grosse Pointe, MI — 867 2,386 — 867 2,386 30 2018  1964  21401 Mack Avenue
Groton, CT — 2,430 19,941 968 2,430 20,909 4,784 2011 1975  1145 Poquonnock Road
Hamilton, NJ — 440 4,469 — 440 4,469 1,990 2001  1998  1645 Whitehorse-Mercerville Rd.
Hanahan, SC — 1,944 3,988 — 1,944 3,988 57 2018  1989  1800 Eagle Landing Boulevard
Hanford, UK — 1,382 9,829 378 1,428 10,161 1,453 2013  2012  Bankhouse Road
Harrisbur g, PA — 569 12,826 — 569 12,826 150 2018  2000  2625 Ailanthus Lane
Harrow , UK — 7,402 8,266 529 7,652 8,545 964 2014  2001  177 Preston Hill
Hatboro, P A — — 28,112 1,771 — 29,883 6,096 2011 1996  3485 Davisville Road
Hatboro, P A — 1,192 7,611 — 1,192 7,611 122 2018  2000  779 West County Line Road
Hatfield, UK — 2,924 7,527 353 3,023 7,781 1,121 2013  2012  St Albans Road East
Hattiesbur g, MS — 450 13,469 — 450 13,469 2,732 2010  2009  217 Methodist Hospital Blvd
Hemet, CA — 6,224 8,414 — 6,224 8,414 102 2018  1989  1717 West Stetson Avenue
Henry , IL — 1,860 3,689 — 1,860 3,689 43 2018  1987  1650 Old Indian Town Road
Hermitage, TN — 1,500 9,943 188 1,500 10,131 1,953 2011 2006  4131 Andrew Jackson Parkway
Herne Bay , UK — 1,900 24,353 1,602 1,964 25,891 3,934 2013  2011 165 Reculver Road
Hiawatha, KS — 40 4,210 29 40 4,239 371 2015  1996  400 Kansas Ave
Hickory , NC — 290 987 232 290 1,219 650 2003  1994  2530 16th St. N.E.
High Point, NC — 560 4,443 793 560 5,236 2,205 2003  2000  1568 Skeet Club Rd.
High Point, NC — 370 2,185 410 370 2,595 1,149 2003  1999  1564 Skeet Club Rd.
High Point, NC — 330 3,395 28 330 3,423 1,450 2003  1994  201 W. Hartley Dr .
High Point, NC — 430 4,143 — 430 4,143 1,743 2003  1998  1560 Skeet Club Rd.
Highland Park, IL — 2,820 15,832 189 2,820 16,021 2,557 2011 2012  1651 Richfield Avenue
Highlands Ranch, CO — 940 3,721 4,983 940 8,704 2,303 2002  1999  9160 S. University Blvd.
Hillsboro, OH — 1,792 6,341 — 1,792 6,341 105 2018  1983  1141 Northview Drive
Hinckley , UK — 2,159 4,194 215 2,232 4,336 684 2013  2013  Tudor Road
Hindhead, UK 44,662  17,852 48,645 2,466 18,455 50,508 2,649 2016  2012  Portsmouth Road
Hinsdale, IL — 4,033 24,287 — 4,033 24,287 270 2018  1971  600 W Ogden Avenue
Hockessin, DE — 1,120 6,308 1,247 1,120 7,555 941 2014  1992  100 Saint Claire Drive
Holton, KS — 40 7,460 13 40 7,473 611 2015  1996  410 Juniper Dr
Homewood, IL — 2,395 7,652 — 2,395 7,652 87 2018  1989  940 Maple Avenue
(Dollars in thousands)   Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period       
Description  Encumbrances LandBuilding &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
Acquired  Year
Built  Address
Triple-net:             
Houston, TX  — 1,040 31,965  4,969 1,040 36,934 7,493  2012  1999  505 Bering Drive
Howard, WI  — 579 32,122  10 579 32,132 1,099  2017  2016  2790 Elm Tree Hill
Huntingdon Valley , PA — 1,150 3,730  — 1,150 3,730 63 2018  1993  3430 Huntingdon Pike
Hyattsville, MD  — 4,017 2,298  — 4,017 2,298 33 2018  1964  6500 Riggs Road
Independence, VA  — 1,082 6,767  — 1,082 6,767 438 2018  1998  400 S Independence Ave
Indianapolis, IN  — 870 14,688  — 870 14,688 1,837  2014  2014  1635 N Arlington Avenue
Indianapolis, IN  — 1,105 6,645  — 1,105 6,645 76 2018  1979  8549 South Madison Avenue
Jackson, NJ  — 6,500 26,405  3,107 6,500 29,512 4,577  2012  2001  2 Kathleen Drive
Jacksonville, FL  — 750 25,231  — 750 25,231 1,645  2013  2014  5939 Roosevelt Boulevard
Jacksonville, FL  — — 26,381  1,691 1,691 26,381 1,716  2013  2014  4000 San Pablo Parkway
Jacksonville, FL  — 1,752 2,553  — 1,752 2,553 31 2018  1989  8495 Normandy Boulevard
Jacksonville
Jacksonville, FL  — 2,182 9,491  — 2,182 9,491 123 2018  1980  3648 University Boulevard South
Jefferson Hills, P A  — 2,265 13,618  — 2,265 13,618 233 2018  1997  380 Wray Lar ge Road
Jersey Shore, P A  — 600 8,107  — 600 8,107 89 2018  1973  1008 Thompson Street
Kansas City , KS  — 700 20,115 — 700 20,115 1,646  2015  2015  8900 Parallel Parkway
Katy , TX  — 1,778 22,622  — 1,778 22,622 1,047  2017  2015  24802 Kingsland Boulevard
Kenner , LA  — 1,100 10,036  349 1,100 10,385 9,529  1998  2000  1600 Joe Yenni Blvd
Kensington, MD  — 1,753 18,626  — 1,753 18,626 211 2018  2002  4301 Knowles Avenue
Kenwood, OH  — 821 11,043  — 821 11,043 129 2018  2000  4580 East Galbraith Road
Kettering, OH  — 1,229 4,703  — 1,229 4,703 63 2018  1977  3313 Wilmington Pike
King of Prussia, P A — 720 14,780  — 720 14,780 180 2018  1995  620 West Valley For ge Road
King of Prussia, P A — 1,205 4,727  — 1,205 4,727 68 2018  1990  600 West Valley For ge Road
Kingsford, MI  — 1,362 10,598  — 1,362 10,598 129 2018  1968  1225 Woodward Avenue
Kingston, P A  — 986 5,711 — 986 5,711 68 2018  1974  200 Second Avenue
Kingston upon Thames,
UK  53,595 33,063 46,696  2,926 34,181 48,504 2,573  2016  2014  Coombe Lane West
Kirkland, WA  — 1,880 4,315  683 1,880 4,998 1,911 2003  1996  6505 Lakeview Dr .
Kirkstall, UK  — 2,437 9,414  401 2,519 9,733 1,396  2013  2009  29 Broad Lane
Kokomo, IN  — 710 16,044  — 710 16,044 2,001  2014  2014  2200 S. Dixon Rd
Lacey , WA  — 2,582 18,180  — 2,582 18,180 209 2018  2012  4524 Intelco Loop SE
Lafayette, LA  — 1,928 10,483  26 1,928 10,509 4,581  2006  1993  204 Ener gy Parkway
Lafayette, CO  — 1,420 20,192  — 1,420 20,192 2,001  2015  2015  329 Exempla Circle
Lafayette, IN  — 670 16,833  1 670 16,834 1,870  2015  2014  2402 South Street
Lakeway , TX  — 5,142 23,203  — 5,142 23,203 3,272  2007  2011 2000 Medical Dr
Lakewood, CO  — 2,160 28,091  62 2,160 28,153 3,561  2014  2010  7395 West Eastman Place
Lakewood Ranch, FL  — 650 6,714  1,988 650 8,702 1,484  2011 2012  8230 Nature's Way
Lakewood Ranch, FL  — 1,000 22,388  — 1,000 22,388 3,822  2012  2005  8220 Natures Way
Lancaster , PA  — 1,680 14,039  — 1,680 14,039 761 2015  2017  31 Millersville Road
Lancaster , PA  — 1,011 7,504  — 1,011 7,504 89 2018  1966  100 Abbeyville Road
LaPlata, MD  — 700 19,068  466 700 19,534 4,198  2011 1984  One Magnolia Drive
Largo, MD  — 3,361 3,623  — 3,361 3,623 50 2018  1978  600 Lar go Road
Largo, FL  — 1,166 3,427  — 1,166 3,427 53 2018  1997  300 Highland Avenue Northeast
Las Vegas, NV  — 580 23,420  — 580 23,420 4,594  2011 2002  2500 North Tenaya Way
Laureldale, P A  — 1,171 14,424  — 1,171 14,424 166 2018  1980  2125 Elizabeth Avenue
Lawrence, KS  — 250 8,716  — 250 8,716 1,471  2012  1996  3220 Peterson Road
Leawood, KS  — 2,490 32,493  2,209 5,610 31,582 7,303  2012  1999  4400 West 115th Street
(Dollars in thousands)   Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description  Encumbrances LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
Acquired  Year
Built  Address
Triple-net:           
Lebanon, P A  — 728 10,370 — 728 10,370 130 2018  1998  100 Tuck Court
Lebanon, P A  — 1,214 5,962 — 1,214 5,962 84 2018  1980  900 Tuck Street
Lee, MA  — 290 18,135 926 290 19,061 8,404 2002  1998  600 & 620 Laurel St.
Leeds, UK  — 1,974 13,239 515 2,041 13,687 1,305 2015  2013  100 Grove Lane
Leicester , UK  — 3,060 24,410 928 3,163 25,235 3,953 2012  2010  307 London Road
Lenoir , NC  — 190 3,748 641 190 4,389 1,842 2003  1998  1145 Powell Rd., N.E.
Lethbridge, AB  1,312 1,214 2,750 61 1,232 2,793 422 2014  2003  785 Columbia Boulevard West
Lexana, KS  — 480 1,770 152 480 1,922 184 2015  1994  8710 Caenen Lake Rd
Lexington, NC  — 200 3,900 1,015 200 4,915 2,127 2002  1997  161 Young Dr .
Libertyville, IL  — 6,500 40,024 — 6,500 40,024 8,481 2011 2001  901 Florsheim Dr
Libertyville, IL  — 2,993 11,550 — 2,993 11,550 130 2018  1988  1500 South Milwaukee
Lichfield, UK  — 1,382 30,324 1,071 1,428 31,349 3,020 2015  2012  Wissage Road
Lillington, NC  — 470 17,579 — 470 17,579 2,112 2014  2013  54 Red Mulberry Way
Lillington, NC  — 500 16,451 — 500 16,451 1,855 2014  1999  2041 NC-210 N
Lincoln, NE  — 390 13,807 95 390 13,902 3,154 2010  2000  7208 Van Dorn St.
Lititz, P A  — 1,200 13,836 — 1,200 13,836 752 2015  2016  80 West Millport Road
Livermore, CA  — 4,100 24,996 — 4,100 24,996 2,642 2014  1974  35 Fenton Street
Livonia, MI  — 985 13,558 — 985 13,558 164 2018  1999  32500 Seven Mile Road
Livonia, MI  — 1,836 2,278 — 1,836 2,278 33 2018  1960  28550 Five Mile Road
Longview , TX  — 610 5,520 — 610 5,520 1,725 2006  2007  311 E Hawkins Pkwy
Longwood, FL  — 1,260 6,445 — 1,260 6,445 1,362 2011 2011 425 South Ronald Reagan Boulevard
Louisbur g, KS  — 280 4,320 44 280 4,364 360 2015  1996  202 Rogers St
Louisville, KY  — 490 10,010 2,768 490 12,778 4,869 2005  1978  4604 Lowe Rd
Loxley , UK  — 1,369 15,668 577 1,416 16,198 2,474 2013  2008  Loxley Road
Lutherville, MD  — 1,100 19,786 1,744 1,100 21,530 4,472 2011 1988  515 Brightfield Road
Lynchbur g, VA  — 340 16,114 — 340 16,114 1,964 2014  2013  189 Monica Blvd
Lynchbur g, VA  — 2,904 3,697 — 2,904 3,697 43 2018  1978  2200 Landover Place
Lynnwood, WA  — 2,308 5,634 — 2,308 5,634 67 2018  1987  3701 188th Street
Macomb, IL  — 1,586 4,059 — 1,586 4,059 46 2018  1966  8 Doctors Lane
Macungie, P A  — 960 29,033 84 960 29,117 6,047 2011 1994  1718 Spring Creek Road
Manalapan, NJ  — 900 22,624 622 900 23,246 4,447 2011 2001  445 Route 9 South
Manassas, VA  — 750 7,446 530 750 7,976 3,092 2003  1996  8341 Barrett Dr .
Mankato, MN  — 1,460 32,104 300 1,460 32,404 2,620 2015  2006  100 Dublin Road
Mansfield, TX  — 660 5,251 — 660 5,251 1,659 2006  2007  2281 Country Club Dr
Marietta, OH  — 1,149 9,376 — 1,149 9,376 109 2018  1977  5001 State Route 60
Marietta, GA  — 2,406 12,233 — 2,406 12,233 140 2018  1980  4360 Johnson Ferry Place
Marietta, P A  — 1,050 13,633 270 1,050 13,903 1,226 2015  1999  2760 Maytown Road
Marion, IN  — 720 12,750 1,136 720 13,886 1,675 2014  2012  614 W. 14th Street
Marion, IN  — 990 9,190 824 990 10,014 1,432 2014  1976  505 N. Bradner Avenue
Marion, OH  — 2,768 17,420 — 2,768 17,420 259 2018  2004  400 Barks Road West
Marlborough, UK  — 2,677 6,822 322 2,768 7,053 777 2014  1999  The Common
Marlow , UK  — 9,068 39,720 — 9,068 39,720 2,869 2013  2014  210 Little Marlow Road
Martinsville, VA  — 349 — — 349 — — 2003  1900  Rolling Hills Rd. & US Hwy . 58
Marysville, WA  — 620 4,780 969 620 5,749 2,233 2003  1998  9802 48th Dr . N.E.
Matawan, NJ  — 1,830 20,618 166 1,830 20,784 4,158 2011 1965  625 State Highway 34
(Dollars in thousands)   Initial Cost to Company    Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period       
Description  Encumbrances Land  Building &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition  LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
Acquired  Year
Built  Address
Triple-net:               
Matthews, NC  — 560 4,738  — 560 4,738 2,031  2003  1998  2404 Plantation Center Dr .
McHenry , IL  — 1,576  — — 1,576 — — 2006  1900  5200 Block of Bull Valley Road
McKinney , TX  — 1,570  7,389  — 1,570 7,389 1,881  2009  2010  2701 Alma Rd.
McMurray , PA  — 1,440  15,805  3,894  1,440 19,699 3,641  2010  2011 240 Cedar Hill Dr
Mechanicsbur g, PA  — 1,350  16,650  — 1,350 16,650 3,344  2011 1971  4950 Wilson Lane
Medicine Hat, AB  2,156 932 5,566  98 946 5,650 679 2014  1999  65 Valleyview Drive SW
Menomonee Falls, WI — 1,020  6,984  1,652  1,020 8,636 2,285  2006  2007  W128 N6900 Northfield Drive
Mentor , OH  — 1,827  9,941  — 1,827 9,941 117 2018  1985  8200 Mentor Hills Drive
Mercerville, NJ  — 860 9,929  173 860 10,102 2,315  2011 1967  2240 White Horse- Merceville Road
Meriden, CT  — 1,300  1,472  233 1,300 1,705 736 2011 1968  845 Paddock Ave
Merrillville, IN  — 700 11,699  154 700 11,853 3,430  2007  2008  9509 Geor gia St.
Mesa, AZ  — 950 9,087  1,971  950 11,058 5,022  1999  2000  7231 E. Broadway
Miamisbur g, OH  — 786 3,233  — 786 3,233 54 2018  1983  450 Oak Ridge Boulevard
Middlebur g Heights,
OH  — 960 7,780  — 960 7,780 2,946  2004  1998  15435 Bagley Rd.
Middleton, WI  — 420 4,006  600 420 4,606 1,915  2001  1991  6701 Stonefield Rd.
Midland, MI  — 200 11,025  5,522  200 16,547 2,992  2010  1994  2325 Rockwell Dr
Milton Keynes, UK  — 1,826  18,654  692 1,888 19,284 1,913  2015  2007  Tunbridge Grove, Kents Hill
Mishawaka, IN  — 740 16,113 — 740 16,113 2,067  2014  2013  60257 Bodnar Blvd
Moline, IL  — 2,946  18,677  — 2,946 18,677 206 2018  1964  833 Sixteenth Avenue
Monmouth Junction, NJ  — 720 6,209  86 720 6,295 1,522  2011 1996  2 Deer Park Drive
Monroe, NC  — 470 3,681  648 470 4,329 1,850  2003  2001  918 Fitzgerald St.
Monroe, NC  — 310 4,799  857 310 5,656 2,316  2003  2000  919 Fitzgerald St.
Monroe, NC  — 450 4,021  114 450 4,135 1,764  2003  1997  1316 Patterson Ave.
Monroe Township, NJ  — 3,250  27,771  270 3,250 28,041 2,200  2015  1996  319 Forsgate Drive
Monroeville, P A  — 1,216  12,753  — 1,216 12,753 179 2018  1997  120 Wyngate Drive
Monroeville, P A  — 1,237  3,642  — 1,237 3,642 68 2018  1996  885 MacBeth Drive
Montgomeryville, P A — 1,176  9,827  — 1,176 9,827 122 2018  1989  640 Bethlehem Pike
Montville, NJ  — 3,500  31,002  1,171  3,500 32,173 6,238  2011 1988  165 Changebridge Rd.
Moorestown, NJ  — 6,400  23,875  27 6,400 23,902 3,239  2012  2014  250 Marter Avenue
Morehead City , NC  — 200 3,104  1,648  200 4,752 2,260  1999  1999  107 Bryan St.
Morrison, CO  — 2,720  16,261  — 2,720 16,261 311 2018  1974  150 Spring Street
Morton Grove, IL  — 1,900  19,374  159 1,900 19,533 3,728  2010  2011 5520 N. Lincoln Ave.
Moulton, UK  — 1,695  12,510  997 1,597 13,605 568 2017  1995  Northampton Lane North
Mount Pleasant, SC  — — 17,200  1 4,052 13,149 3,228  2013  1985  1200 Hospital Drive
Mountainside, NJ  — 3,097  7,810  — 3,097 7,810 93 2018  1988  1180 Route 22
Nacogdoches, TX  — 390 5,754  — 390 5,754 1,792  2006  2007  5902 North St
Naperville, IL  — 3,470  29,547  — 3,470 29,547 6,382  2011 2001  504 North River Road
Naples, FL  — 1,222  10,642  — 1,222 10,642 133 2018  1998  6125 Rattlesnake Hammock Road
Naples, FL  — 1,672  26,170  — 1,672 26,170 344 2018  1993  1000 Lely Palms Drive
Naples, FL  — 1,854  12,402  — 1,854 12,402 140 2018  1987  3601 Lakewood Boulevard
Nashville, TN  — 4,910  29,590  — 4,910 29,590 8,321  2008  2007  15 Burton Hills Boulevard
Naugatuck, CT  — 1,200  15,826  199 1,200 16,025 3,479  2011 1980  4 Hazel Avenue
Needham, MA  — 1,610  12,667  — 1,610 12,667 5,327  2002  1994  100 West St.
New Moston, UK  — 1,480  4,378  198 1,530 4,526 676 2013  2010  90a Broadway
Newcastle Under L yme,
UK  — 1,110 5,655  229 1,148 5,846 834 2013  2010  Hempstalls Lane
(Dollars in thousands)    Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description  Encumbrances  Land  Building &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition  LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:            
Newcastle-under -Lyme,
UK  — 1,125  5,537 225 1,163 5,724 631 2014 1999 Silverdale Road
Newport News, VA — 839 6,077 — 839 6,077 407 2018 1998 12997 Nettles Dr
Norman, OK  — 55 1,484 — 55 1,484 938 1995 1995 1701 Alameda Dr .
Norman, OK  — 1,480  33,330 — 1,480 33,330 5,571  2012 1985 800 Canadian Trails Drive
North Augusta, SC  — 332 2,558 — 332 2,558 1,348  1999 1998 105 North Hills Dr .
Northampton, UK  — 5,182  17,348 762 5,357 17,935 2,659  2013 2011 Cliftonville Road
Northampton, UK  — 2,013  6,257 280 2,081 6,469 674 2014 2014 Cliftonville Road
Northbrook, IL  — 1,298  13,341 — 1,298 13,341 154 2018 1999 3240 Milwaukee Avenue
Nuneaton, UK  — 3,325  8,983 415 3,437 9,286 1,326  2013 2011 132 Coventry Road
Nuthall, UK  — 1,628  6,263 268 1,684 6,475 661 2014 2014 172A  Nottingham Road
Nuthall, UK  — 2,498  10,436 438 2,583 10,789 1,556  2013 2011 172 Nottingham Road
Oak Lawn, IL  — 2,418  5,428 — 2,418 5,428 62 2018 1977 9401 South Kostner Avenue
Oak Lawn, IL  — 3,876  7,988 — 3,876 7,988 95 2018 1960 6300 W 95th Street
Oakland, CA  — 4,760  16,143 109 4,760 16,252 1,936  2014 2002 468 Perkins Street
Ocala, FL  — 1,340  10,564 — 1,340 10,564 2,767  2008 2009 2650 SE 18TH Avenue
Ogden, UT  — 384 2,228 — 384 2,228 310 2018 1987 400 East 5350 South
Oklahoma City , OK  — 590 7,513 — 590 7,513 2,175  2007 2008 13200 S. May Ave
Oklahoma City , OK  — 760 7,017 — 760 7,017 1,993  2007 2009 11320 N. Council Road
Olathe, KS  — 1,930  19,765 553 1,930 20,318 1,758  2016 2015 21250 W 151 Street
Omaha, NE  — 370 10,230 — 370 10,230 2,369  2010 1998 11909 Miracle Hills Dr .
Omaha, NE  — 380 8,769 — 380 8,769 2,144  2010 1999 5728 South 108th St.
Ona, WV  — 950 15,998 222 950 16,220 1,400  2015 2007 100 Weatherholt Drive
Oneonta, NY  — 80 5,020 — 80 5,020 1,442  2007 1996 1846 County Highway 48
Orange Park, FL  — 2,201  4,018 — 2,201 4,018 64 2018 1990 570 Wells Road
Orem, UT  — 2,150  24,107 — 2,150 24,107 2,021  2015 2014 250 East Center Street
Osage City , KS  — 50 1,700 142 50 1,842 183 2015 1996 1403 Laing St
Osawatomie, KS  — 130 2,970 136 130 3,106 283 2015 2003 1520 Parker Ave
Ottawa, KS  — 160 6,590 44 160 6,634 556 2015 2007 2250 S Elm St
Overland Park, KS  — 4,500  29,105 38,441  8,230 63,816 15,377  2010 1988 6101 W 119th St
Overland Park, KS  — 1,540  16,269 943 1,670 17,082 3,342  2012 1998 9201 Foster
Overland Park, KS  — 410 2,840 92 410 2,932 279 2015 2004 14430 Metcalf Ave
Overland Park, KS  — 1,300  25,31 1 677 1,300 25,988 2,229  2016 2015 7600 Antioch Road
Owasso, OK  — 215 1,380 — 215 1,380 801 1996 1996 12807 E. 86th Place N.
Owensboro, KY  — 225 13,275 — 225 13,275 5,120  2005 1964 1205 Leitchfield Rd.
Owenton, KY  — 100 2,400 — 100 2,400 1,108  2005 1979 905 Hwy . 127 N.
Oxford, MI  — 1,430  15,791 — 1,430 15,791 3,625  2010 2001 701 Market St
Palestine, TX  — 180 4,320 1,300  180 5,620 1,814  2006 2005 1625 W. Spring St.
Palm Beach Gardens,
FL  — 2,082  6,624 — 2,082 6,624 87 2018 1991 11375 Prosperity Farms Road
Palm Coast, FL  — 870 10,957 — 870 10,957 2,730  2008 2010 50 Town Ct.
Palm Desert, CA  — 6,195  8,922 — 6,195 8,922 107 2018 1989 74350 Country Club Drive
Palm Harbor , FL  — 1,306  13,81 1 — 1,306 13,81 1 171 2018 1997 2895 Tampa Road
Palm Harbor , FL  — 3,281  22,457 — 3,281 22,457 273 2018 1990 2851 Tampa Road
Palos Heights, IL  — 1,225  12,457 — 1,225 12,457 141 2018 1999 7880 West College Drive
Palos Heights, IL  — 3,431  28,812 — 3,431 28,812 316 2018 1987 7850 West College Drive
Palos Heights, IL  — 2,590  7,647 — 2,590 7,647 87 2018 1996 11860 Southwest Hwy
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description Encumbrances LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition Land  Building &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
Acquired  Year
Built  Address
Triple-net:            
Panama City Beach, FL — 900 6,402 620 900 7,022 1,161 2011 2005  6012 Magnolia Beach Road
Paola, KS — 190 5,610 59 190 5,669 483 2015  2000  601 N. East Street
Paris, TX — 490 5,452 — 490 5,452 4,421 2005  2006  750 N Collegiate Dr
Parma, OH — 960 12,722 — 960 12,722 155 2018  1998  9205 Sprague Road
Parma, OH — 1,833 10,318 — 1,833  10,318 141 2018  2006  9055 West Sprague Road
Paulsboro, NJ — 3,264 8,026 — 3,264  8,026 99 2018  1987  550 Jessup Road
Pella, IA — 870 6,716 89 870 6,805 1,135 2012  2002  2602 Fifield Road
Perrysbur g, OH — 1,456 5,433 — 1,456  5,433 68 2018  1973  10540 Fremont Pike
Perrysbur g, OH — 1,213 7,110 — 1,213  7,110 82 2018  1978  10542 Fremont Pike
Petoskey , MI — 860 14,452 — 860 14,452 3,152 2011 1997  965 Hager Dr
Philadelphia, P A — 2,930 10,433 3,536 2,930  13,969 3,206 2011 1952  1526 Lombard Street
Phillipsbur g, NJ — 800 21,175 238 800 21,413 4,650 2011 1992  290 Red School Lane
Phillipsbur g, NJ — 300 8,114 101 300 8,215 1,780 2011 1905  843 Wilbur Avenue
Pikesville, MD — — 2,488 — — 2,488 27 2018  1998  8911 Reisterstown Road
Pikesville, MD — 4,247 8,383 — 4,247  8,383 108 2018  1996  8909 Reisterstown Road
Pinehurst, NC — 290 2,690 484 290 3,174 1,392 2003  1998  17 Regional Dr .
Piqua, OH — 204 1,885 — 204 1,885 1,024 1997  1997  1744 W. High St.
Piscataway , NJ — 3,100 33,501 — 3,100  33,501 1,423 2013  2017  10 Sterling Drive
Pittsbur gh, P A — 603 11,357 — 603 11,357 137 2018  1998  1125 Perry Highway
Pittsbur gh, P A — 1,005 15,164 — 1,005  15,164 177 2018  1997  505 Weyman Road
Pittsbur gh, P A — 1,140 3,166 — 1,140  3,166 37 2018  1962  550 South Negley Avenue
Pittsbur gh, P A — 994 3,790 — 994 3,790 63 2018  1986  2170 Rhine Street
Pittsbur gh, P A — 761 4,214 — 761 4,214 47 2018  1965  5609 Fifth Avenue
Pittsbur gh, P A — 1,480 9,715 — 1,480  9,715 128 2018  1986  1105 Perry Highway
Pittsbur gh, P A — 1,139 5,846 — 1,139  5,846 75 2018  1986  1848 Greentree Road
Pittsbur gh, P A — 1,750 8,572 6,322 1,750  14,894 3,340 2005  1998  100 Knoedler Rd.
Plainview , NY — 3,990 11,969 1,186 3,990  13,155 2,774 2011 1963  150 Sunnyside Blvd
Plano, TX — 1,840 20,152 560 1,840  20,712 1,579 2016  2016  3325 W Plano Parkway
Plattsmouth, NE — 250 5,650 — 250 5,650 1,377 2010  1999  1913 E. Highway 34
Plymouth, MI — 1,490 19,990 330 1,490  20,320 4,431 2010  1972  14707 Northville Rd
Potomac, MD — 1,448 14,626 — 1,448  14,626 167 2018  1994  10718 Potomac Tennis Lane
Potomac, MD — 4,119 14,921 — 4,119 14,921 176 2018  1988  10714 Potomac Tennis Lane
Pottstown, P A — 984 4,565 — 984 4,565 58 2018  1907  724 North Charlotte Street
Pottsville, P A — 171 3,560 — 171 3,560 42 2018  1976  420 Pulaski Drive
Prior Lake, MN 13,806 1,870 29,849 300 1,870  30,149 2,435 2015  2003  4685 Park Nicollet Avenue
Puyallup, WA — 1,150 20,776 505 1,156  21,275 5,775 2010  1985  123 Fourth Ave. NW
Raleigh, NC — 7,598 88,870 — 7,598  88,870 4,212 2008  2017  4030 Cardinal at North Hills St
Raleigh, NC — 3,530 59,589 — 3,530  59,589 9,825 2012  2002  5301 Creedmoor Road
Raleigh, NC — 2,580 16,837 — 2,580  16,837 2,965 2012  1988  7900 Creedmoor Road
Reading, P A — 980 19,906 140 980 20,046 4,293 2011 1994  5501 Perkiomen Ave
Red Bank, NJ — 1,050 21,275 586 1,050  21,861 4,176 2011 1997  One Hartford Dr .
Reidsville, NC — 170 3,830 857 170 4,687 2,045 2002  1998  2931 Vance St.
Reno, NV — 1,060 11,440 659 1,060  12,099 4,440 2004  1998  5165 Summit Ridge Road
Rexbur g, ID — 1,267 3,213 — 1,267  3,213 383 2018  1988  660 South 2nd West
Richardson, TX — 1,468 12,979 — 1,468  12,979 154 2018  1999  410 Buckingham Road
(Dollars in thousands)   Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description  Encumbrances LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation (1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:           
Richmond, IN  — 700 14,222 393 700 14,615  1,256  2016 2015 400 Industries Road
Richmond, VA  — — 12,000 — 250 11,750  2,018  2013 1989 2220 Edward Holland Drive
Richmond, VA  — 3,261 17,980 — 3,261 17,980  203 2018 1990 1719 Bellevue Avenue
Richmond, VA  — 1,046 8,235 — 1,046 8,235  100 2018 1966 2125 Hilliard Road
Ridgeland, MS  — 520 7,675 437 520 8,112 3,162  2003 1997 410 Orchard Park
Roanoke, VA  — 748 4,483 — 748 4,483  435 2018 1997 4355 Pheasant Ridge Rd
Rochdale, MA  — — 7,100 — 690 6,410  1,039  2013 1994 111 Huntoon Memorial Highway
Rockville Centre, NY  — 4,290 20,310 932 4,290 21,242  4,259  2011 2002 260 Maple Ave
Rockwall, TX  — 2,220 17,650 — 2,220 17,650  1,590  2012 2014 720 E Ralph Hall Parkway
Romeoville, IL  — 1,895 — — 1,895 — — 2006 1900 Grand Haven Circle
Roseville, MN  — 2,140 24,679 100 2,140 24,779  2,037  2015 1989 2750 North Victoria Street
Roswell, GA  — 1,107 9,627 1,127 1,114 10,747  8,139  1997 1999 655 Mansell Rd.
Roswell, GA  — 2,080 6,486 1,130 2,380 7,316  1,645  2012 1997 75 Magnolia Street
Rugeley , UK  — 1,900 10,262 411 1,964 10,609  1,603  2013 2010 Horse Fair
Ruston, LA  — 710 9,790 — 710 9,790  2,133  2011 1988 1401 Ezelle St
S Holland, IL  — 1,423 8,910 — 1,423 8,910  108 2018 1997 2045 East 170th Street
Salem, OR  — 449 5,171 1 449 5,172  2,706  1999 1998 1355 Boone Rd. S.E.
Salisbury , NC  — 370 5,697 168 370 5,865  2,422  2003 1997 2201 Statesville Blvd.
San Angelo, TX  — 1,050 24,689 1,221 1,050 25,910  3,073  2014 1999 6101 Grand Court Road
San Antonio, TX  — 1,499 12,662 — 1,499 12,662  149 2018 2000 15290 Huebner Road
San Antonio, TX  — — 17,303 — — 17,303  7,781  2007 2007 8902 Floyd Curl Dr .
San Bernardino, CA  — 3,700 14,300 687 3,700 14,987  3,865  2008 1993 1760 W. 16th St.
San Diego, CA  — — 22,003 1,845 — 23,848  6,068  2008 1992 555 Washington St.
Sand Springs, OK  — 910 19,654 — 910 19,654  3,346  2012 2002 4402 South 129th Avenue West
Sarasota, FL  — 475 3,175 — 475 3,175  1,917  1996 1995 8450 McIntosh Rd.
Sarasota, FL  — 4,101 11,208 — 4,101 11,208  212 2018 1993 5401 Sawyer Road
Sarasota, FL  — 1,370 4,084 — 1,370 4,084  49 2018 1968 3250 12th Street
Sarasota, FL  — 2,792 11,177 — 2,792 11,177  131 2018 1993 5511 Swift Road
Sarasota, FL  — 3,360 19,140 — 3,360 19,140  3,681  2011 2006 6150 Edgelake Drive
Sarasota, FL  — 443 9,699 — 443 9,699  120 2018 1998 5509 Swift Road
Scranton, P A  — 440 17,609 — 440 17,609  2,032  2014 2005 2741 Blvd. Ave
Scranton, P A  — 320 12,144 1 320 12,145  1,400  2014 2013 2751 Boulevard Ave
Seminole, FL  — 1,165 8,977 — 1,165 8,977  113 2018 1998 9300 Antilles Drive
Seven Fields, P A  — 484 4,663 59 484 4,722  2,475  1999 1999 500 Seven Fields Blvd.
Severna Park, MD  — 2,120 31,273 808 2,120 32,081  6,616  2011 1981 24 Truckhouse Road
Sewell, NJ  — 3,127 14,095 — 3,127 14,095  188 2018 2010 378 Fries Mill Road
Shawnee, OK  — 80 1,400 — 80 1,400  837 1996 1995 3947 Kickapoo
Shelbyville, KY  — 630 3,870 630 630 4,500  1,579  2005 1965 1871 Midland Trail
Sherman, TX  — 700 5,221 — 700 5,221  1,696  2005 2006 1011 E. Pecan Grove Rd.
Silver Spring, MD  — 1,469 10,395 — 1,469 10,395  122 2018 1995 2505 Musgrove Road
Silver Spring, MD  — 4,678 11,683 — 4,678 11,683  146 2018 1990 2501 Musgrove Road
Silvis, IL  — 880 16,420 139 880 16,559  3,691  2010 2005 1900 10th St.
Sinking Spring, P A  — 1,393 19,848 — 1,393 19,848  231 2018 1982 3000 Windmill Road
Sittingbourne, UK  — 1,357 6,539 267 1,403 6,760  715 2014 1997 200 London Road
Smithfield, NC  — 290 5,680 — 290 5,680  2,363  2003 1998 830 Berkshire Rd.
(Dollars in thousands)    Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description  Encumbrances  LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition Land  Building &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation (1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:            
Smithfield, NC  — 360 8,216 — 360 8,216  946 2014 1999 250 Highway 210 West
South Bend, IN  — 670 17,770 — 670 17,770  2,128  2014 2014 52565 State Road 933
South Point, OH  — 1,135 9,390 — 1,135  9,390  109 2018 1984 7743 County Road 1
Southampton, UK  — 1,519 16,041 — 1,519  16,041  541 2017 2013 Botley Road, Park Gate
Southbury , CT  — 1,860 23,613 958 1,860  24,571  4,939  2011 2001 655 Main St
Spokane, WA  — 3,200 25,064 284 3,200  25,348  6,895  2013 2001 3117 E. Chaser Lane
Spokane, WA  — 2,580 25,342 195 2,580  25,537  5,958  2013 1999 1110 E. Westview Ct.
Spokane, WA  — 2,649 11,703 — 2,649  11,703  138 2018 1985 6025 North Assembly Street
Springfield, IL  — — 10,100 — 768 9,332  2,107  2013 2010 701 North Walnut Street
Springfield, IL  — 990 13,378 1,085 990 14,463  1,707  2014 2013 3089 Old Jacksonville Road
St. Louis, MO  — 1,890 12,390 787 1,890  13,177  2,691  2010 1963 6543 Chippewa St
St. Paul, MN  — 2,100 33,019 100 2,100  33,119 2,698  2015 1996 750 Mississippi River
Stafford, UK  — 2,009 8,238 — 2,009  8,238  499 2014 2016 Stone Road
Stamford, UK  — 1,820 3,238 171 1,881  3,348  378 2014 1998 Priory Road
Statesville, NC  — 150 1,447 266 150 1,713  749 2003 1990 2441 E. Broad St.
Statesville, NC  — 310 6,183 8 310 6,191  2,514  2003 1996 2806 Peachtree Place
Statesville, NC  — 140 3,627 — 140 3,627  1,503  2003 1999 2814 Peachtree Rd.
Staunton, VA  — 899 6,391 — 899 6,391  432 2018 1999 1410 N Augusta St
Sterling Heights, MI  — 790 10,787 — 790 10,787  128 2018 1996 11095 East Fourteen Mile Road
Sterling Heights, MI  — 1,583 15,639 — 1,583  15,639  188 2018 2013 38200 Schoenherr Road
Stillwater , OK  — 80 1,400 — 80 1,400  839 1995 1995 1616 McElroy Rd.
Stratford-upon-A von,
UK  — 790 14,508 517 816 14,999  1,443  2015 2012 Scholars Lane
Stroudsbur g, PA  — 340 16,313 — 340 16,313  2,096  2014 2011 370 Whitestone Corner Road
Summit, NJ  — 3,080 14,152 — 3,080  14,152  3,027  2011 2001 41 Springfield Avenue
Sun City West, AZ  — 1,250 21,778 600 1,250  22,378  4,357  2012 1998 13810 West Sandridge Drive
Sunbury , PA  — 695 7,246 — 695 7,246  82 2018 1981 800 Court Street Circle
Sunninghill, UK  — 11,632 42,233 — 11,632  42,233  1,689  2014 2017 Bagshot Road
Sunnyvale, CA  — 4,946 22,131 — 4,946  22,131  251 2018 1990 1150 Tilton Drive
Superior , WI  — 1,020 13,735 6,159 1,020  19,894  2,909  2009 2010 1915 North 34th Street
Tacoma, WA  — 2,522 8,576 — 2,522  8,576  99 2018 1984 5601 South Orchard Southtreet
Tampa, FL  — 1,315 6,913 — 1,315  6,913  94 2018 1999 14950 Casey Road
Terre Haute, IN  — 1,370 18,016 — 1,370  18,016  1,936  2015 2015 395 8th Avenue
Texarkana, TX  — 192 1,403 — 192 1,403  814 1996 1996 4204 Moores Lane
The Villages, FL  — 1,035 7,446 — 1,035  7,446  1,103  2013 2014 2450 Parr Drive
Thomasville, GA  — 530 12,520 540 530 13,060  2,093  2011 2006 423 Covington Avenue
Three Rivers, MI  — 1,258 2,761 — 1,258  2,761  43 2018 1976 517 South Erie Southtreet
Tomball, TX  — 1,050 13,300 840 1,050  14,140  2,805  2011 2001 1221 Graham Dr
Tonganoxie, KS  — 310 3,690 76 310 3,766  353 2015 2009 120 W 8th St
Topeka, KS  — 260 12,712 — 260 12,712  2,236  2012 2011 1931 Southwest Arvonia Place
Towson, MD  — 1,180 13,280 195 1,180  13,475  2,974  2011 1973 7700 York Road
Towson, MD  — 1,715 13,115 — 1,715  13,115 154 2018 2000 8101 Bellona Avenue
Towson, MD  — 3,100 6,468 — 3,100  6,468  73 2018 1960 509 East Joppa Road
Towson, MD  — 4,527 3,128 — 4,527  3,128  44 2018 1970 7001 North Charles Street
Troy, MI  — 1,381 24,452 — 1,381  24,452  275 2018 2006 925 West South Boulevard
Troy, OH  — 200 2,000 4,254 200 6,254  2,177  1997 1997 81 S. Stanfield Rd.
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company    Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description Encumbrances Land  Building &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition  LandBuilding &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation (1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Triple-net:              
Trumbull, CT — 4,440  43,384  — 4,440 43,384  8,857  2011 2001 6949 Main Street
Tucson, AZ — 830 6,179  3,370  830 9,549  1,678  2012 1997 5660 N. Kolb Road
Tulsa, OK — 3,003  6,025  20 3,003 6,045  3,553  2006 1992 3219 S. 79th E. Ave.
Tulsa, OK — 1,390  7,110 1,102  1,390 8,212  1,986  2010 1998 7220 S. Yale Ave.
Tulsa, OK — 1,320  10,087  — 1,320 10,087  1,825  2011 2012 7902 South Mingo Road East
Tulsa, OK — 1,100  27,007  — 1,100 27,007  1,388  2015 2017 18001 East 51st Street
Tulsa, OK 13,000 1,752  28,421  — 1,752 28,421  1,215  2017 2014 701 W 71st Street South
Tulsa, OK — 890 9,410  — 890 9,410  308 2017 2009 7210 South Yale Avenue
Twinsbur g, OH — 1,446  5,921  — 1,446 5,921  77 2018 2014 8551 Darrow Road
Tyler, TX — 650 5,268  — 650 5,268  1,651  2006 2007 5550 Old Jacksonville Hwy .
Union, SC — 1,932  2,374  — 1,932 2,374  43 2018 1981 709 Rice Avenue
Valparaiso, IN — 112 2,558  — 112 2,558  1,206  2001 1998 2601 Valparaiso St.
Valparaiso, IN — 108 2,962  — 108 2,962  1,379  2001 1999 2501 Valparaiso St.
Vancouver , WA — 2,503  28,401  — 2,503 28,401  316 2018 2011 2811 N.E. 139th Street
Venice, FL — 1,150  10,674  — 1,150 10,674  2,717  2008 2009 1600 Center Rd.
Venice, FL — 2,246  10,097  — 2,246 10,097  126 2018 1997 1450 East Venice Avenue
Vero Beach, FL — 263 3,187  — 263 3,187  1,474  2001 1999 420 4th Ct.
Vero Beach, FL — 297 3,263  — 297 3,263  1,518  2001 1996 410 4th Ct.
Virginia Beach, VA — 1,540  22,593  — 1,540 22,593  2,639  2014 1993 5520 Indian River Rd
Voorhees, NJ — 1,800  37,299  671 1,800 37,970  8,097  2011 1965 2601 Evesham Road
Voorhees, NJ — 1,900  26,040  894 1,900 26,934  5,768  2011 1985 3001 Evesham Road
Voorhees, NJ — 3,100  25,950  26 3,100 25,976  4,484  2011 2013 113 South Route 73
Voorhees, NJ — 2,193  6,992  — 2,193 6,992  91 2018 2006 1086 Dumont Circle
W Palm Beach, FL — 1,175  8,297  — 1,175 8,297  106 2018 1996 2330 Village Boulevard
W Palm Beach, FL — 1,921  5,733  — 1,921 5,733  71 2018 1996 2300 Village Boulevard
Wabash, IN — 670 14,588  1 670 14,589  1,825  2014 2013 20 John Kissinger Drive
Waconia, MN — 890 14,726  4,495  890 19,221  3,580  2011 2005 500 Cherry Street
Wake Forest, NC — 200 3,003  1,742  200 4,745  2,308  1998 1999 611 S. Brooks St.
Wallingford, P A — 1,356  6,489  — 1,356 6,489  86 2018 1930 115 South Providence Road
Walnut Creek, CA — 4,358  18,413  — 4,358 18,413  214 2018 1997 1975 Tice Valley Boulevard
Walnut Creek, CA — 5,394  39,096  — 5,394 39,096  432 2018 1990 1226 Rossmoor Parkway
Walsall, UK — 1,184  8,562  329 1,224 8,851  902 2015 2015 Little Aston Road
Wamego, KS — 40 2,510  57 40 2,567  223 2015 1996 1607 4th St
Wareham, MA — 875 10,313  1,701  875 12,014  5,527  2002 1989 50 Indian Neck Rd.
Warren, NJ — 2,000  30,810  1,073  2,000 31,883  6,023  2011 1999 274 King Geor ge Rd
Waterloo, IA — 605 3,031  — 605 3,031  39 2018 1964 201 West Ridgeway Avenue
Waukee, IA — 1,870  31,878  1,075  1,870 32,953  5,402  2012 2007 1650 SE Holiday Crest Circle
Waxahachie, TX — 650 5,763  — 650 5,763  1,680  2007 2008 1329 Brown St.
Wayne, NJ — 1,427  16,751  — 1,427 16,751  237 2018 1998 800 Hambur g Turnpike
Weatherford, TX — 660 5,261  — 660 5,261  1,662  2006 2007 1818 Martin Drive
Wellingborough, UK — 1,480  5,724  243 1,530 5,917  681 2015 2015 159 Northampton
West Bend, WI — 620 17,790  38 620 17,828  3,310  2010 2011 2130 Continental Dr
West Des Moines, IA — 828 5,104  — 828 5,104  66 2018 2006 5010 Grand Ridge Drive
West Orange, NJ — 1,347  20,467  — 1,347 20,467  274 2018 1998 510 Prospect Avenue
West Reading, P A — 890 12,122  — 890 12,122  133 2018 1975 425 Buttonwood Street
(Dollars in thousands)   Initial Cost to Company    Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description  Encumbrances Land  Building &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition  Land  Building &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation (1)Year
Acquired  Year
Built  Address
Triple-net:               
Westerville, OH  — 740 8,287  3,105  740 11,392 9,722 1998  2001  690 Cooper Rd.
Westerville, OH  — 1,420  5,373  — 1,420  5,373 66 2018  1982  1060 Eastwind Drive
Westerville, OH  — 1,582  10,282  — 1,582  10,282 128 2018  1980  215 Huber Village Boulevard
Westfield, IN  — 890 15,964  1 890 15,965 1,981 2014  2013  937 E. 186th Street
Westfield, NJ  — 2,270  16,589  497 2,270  17,086 4,001 2011 1970  1515 Lamberts Mill Road
Westlake, OH  — 855 11,966  — 855 11,966 143 2018  1997  28400 Center Ridge Road
Weston Super Mare,
UK  — 2,517  7,054  324 2,602  7,293 1,047 2013  2011 141b Milton Road
Wheaton, MD  — 3,864  3,790  — 3,864  3,790 48 2018  1961  11901 Geor gia Avenue
Whippany , NJ  — 1,571  14,982  — 1,571  14,982 180 2018  2000  18 Eden Lane
White Lake, MI  — 2,920  20,179  92 2,920  20,271 4,516 2010  2000  935 Union Lake Rd
Wichita, KS  — 1,400  11,000  — 1,400  11,000 4,844 2006  1997  505 North Maize Road
Wichita, KS  — 860 8,873  — 860 8,873 1,792 2011 2012  10604 E 13th Street North
Wichita, KS  12,779 630 19,747  — 630 19,747 3,328 2012  2009  2050 North Webb Road
Wichita, KS  — 260 2,240  129 260 2,369 207 2015  1992  900 N Bayshore Dr
Wichita, KS  — 900 10,134  — 900 10,134 1,932 2011 2012  10600 E 13th Street North
Wilkes-Barre, P A  — 753 3,457  — 753 3,457 48 2018  1970  1548 Sans Souci Parkway
Williamsbur g, VA  — 1,187  5,728  — 1,187  5,728 375 2018  2000  1811 Jamestown Rd
Williamsport, P A  — 919 6,926  — 919 6,926 83 2018  1976  300 Leader Drive
Williamsport, P A  — 780 1,899  — 780 1,899 30 2018  1972  101 Leader Drive
Williamstown, KY  — 70 6,430  — 70 6,430 2,501 2005  1987  201 Kimberly Lane
Willoughby , OH  — 1,774  8,655  — 1,774  8,655 105 2018  1974  37603 Euclid Avenue
Wilmington, DE  — 800 9,494  114 800 9,608 2,193 2011 1970  810 S Broom Street
Wilmington, DE  — 1,376  13,454  — 1,376  13,454 159 2018  1998  700 1/2 Foulk Road
Wilmington, DE  — 2,843  36,959  — 2,843  36,959 419 2018  1988  5651 Limestone Road
Wilmington, DE  — 2,266  9,503  — 2,266  9,503 115 2018  1984  700 Foulk Road
Wilmington, NC  — 210 2,991  — 210 2,991 1,560 1999  1999  3501 Converse Dr .
Wilmington, NC  — 400 15,355  — 400 15,355 1,854 2014  2012  3828 Independence Blvd
Windsor , VA  — 1,148  6,514  — 1,148  6,514 443 2018  1999  23352 Courthouse Hwy
Winston-Salem, NC  — 360 2,514  459 360 2,973 1,268 2003  1996  2980 Reynolda Rd.
Winter Garden, FL  — 1,110 7,937  — 1,110 7,937 1,382 2012  2013  720 Roper Road
Winter Springs, FL  — 1,152  14,826  — 1,152  14,826 173 2018  1999  1057 Willa Springs Drive
Witherwack, UK  — 944 6,915  266 976 7,149 1,027 2013  2009  Whitchurch Road
Wolverhampton, UK  — 1,573  6,678  279 1,626  6,904 1,000 2013  2011 378 Prestonwood Road
Woodbury , MN  — 1,317  20,935  298 1,317  21,233 1,057 2017  2015  2195 Century Avenue South
Woodstock, VA  — 594 5,108  — 594 5,108 338 2018  2001  803 S Main St
Worcester , MA  — 3,500  54,099  — 3,500  54,099 13,035 2007  2009  101 Barry Road
Worcester , MA  — 2,300  9,060  6,000  2,300  15,060 4,007 2008  1993  378 Plantation St.
Yardley , PA  — 773 14,918  — 773 14,918 184 2018  1995  493 Stony Hill Road
Yardley , PA  — 1,561  9,442  — 1,561  9,442 139 2018  1990  1480 Oxford Valley Road
Yeadon, P A  — 1,075  10,694  — 1,075  10,694 121 2018  1963  14 Lincoln Avenue
York, P A  — 976 9,357  — 976 9,357 112 2018  1972  200 Pauline Drive
York, P A  — 1,050  4,212  — 1,050  4,212 60 2018  1983  2400 Kingston Court
York, P A  — 1,121  7,586  — 1,121  7,586 97 2018  1979  1770 Barley Road
York, UK  — 2,961  8,266  379 3,061  8,545 946 2014  2006  Rosetta Way, Boroughbridge Road
Youngsville, NC  — 380 10,689  — 380 10,689 1,256 2014  2013  100 Sunset Drive
Zephyrhills, FL  — 2,131  6,671  — 2,131  6,671 90 2018  1987  38220 Henry Drive
Zionsville, IN  — 1,610  22,400  1,686  1,610  24,086 5,158 2010  2009  11755 N Michigan Rd
Triple-net Total  $ 288,387 $1,096,169 $8,585,481 $301,960 $1,119,576 $8,864,034 $ 1,261,486    
105
Welltower Inc.  
Schedule III  
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  
December 31, 2018  
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description Encumbrances Land  Building &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
Acquisition  LandBuilding &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Outpatient Medical:            
Addison, IL $ 6,052 $ 102 $ 19,089 $ — $ 102 $ 19,089  $ — 2018 2012 303 West Lake Street
Akron, OH — 821 12,105 1 821 12,106  2,993 2012 2010 701 White Pond Drive
Allen, TX — 726 14,196 1,221  726 15,417  4,722 2012 2006 1105 N Central Expressway
Alpharetta, GA — 476 14,757 448 476 15,205  5,141 2011 2003 11975 Morris Road
Alpharetta, GA — 1,862  — — 1,862 — — 2011 1900 940 North Point Parkway
Alpharetta, GA — 548 17,103 548 548 17,651  6,275 2011 2007 3300 Old Milton Parkway
Alpharetta, GA — 773 18,902 1,640  773 20,542  6,627 2011 1993 3400-A  Old Milton Parkway
Alpharetta, GA — 1,769  36,152 1,805  1,769 37,957  13,445 2011 1999 3400-C Old Milton Parkway
Anderson, IN — 584 21,077 — 584 21,077  1,300 2017 2016 3125 S. Scatterfield Rd.
Arcadia, CA — 5,408  23,219 4,567  5,618 27,576  10,909 2006 1984 301 W. Huntington Drive
Arlington, TX — 82 18,243 402 82 18,645  3,550 2012 2012 902 W. Randol Mill Road
Atlanta, GA — 4,931  18,720 7,068  5,387 25,332  11,504 2006 1991 755 Mt. Vernon Hwy .
Atlanta, GA — 1,947  24,248 1,973  2,184 25,984  7,822 2012 1984 975 Johnson Ferry Road
Atlanta, GA — — 43,425 1,972  — 45,397  12,796 2012 2006 5670 Peachtree-Dunwoody Road
Austin, TX — 1,066  10,112 — 1,066 10,112 499 2017 2017 5301-B Davis Lane
Bardstown, KY — 273 7,966 42 274 8,007  1,409 2010 2006 4359 New Shepherdsville Rd
Bartlett, TN — 187 15,015 2,225  187 17,240  6,860 2007 2004 2996 Kate Bond Rd.
Bel Air, MD — — 24,769 49 — 24,818  1,724 2014 2016 12 Medstar Boulevard
Bellevue, NE — — 16,680 2 — 16,682  5,283 2010 2010 2510 Bellevue Medical Center Drive
Bettendorf, IA — — 7,110 73 — 7,183  748 2013 2014 2140 53rd Avenue
Beverly Hills, CA — 20,766  40,730 3,400  20,766 44,130  6,159 2015 1946 9675 Brighton Way
Beverly Hills, CA — 18,863  1,192 208 18,885 1,378  684 2015 1955 415 North Bedford
Beverly Hills, CA — 19,863  31,690 1,058  19,863 32,748  4,403 2015 1946 416 North Bedford
Beverly Hills, CA 33,729 32,603  28,639 812 32,603 29,451  5,043 2015 1950 435 North Bedford
Beverly Hills, CA 78,271 52,772  87,366 510 52,772 87,876  11,291 2015 1989 436 North Bedford
Birmingham, AL — 52 10,201 639 52 10,840  4,243 2006 1971 801 Princeton Avenue SW
Birmingham, AL — 124 11,733 2,047  124 13,780  4,905 2006 1985 817 Princeton Avenue SW
Birmingham, AL — 476 18,726 2,196  476 20,922  7,981 2006 1989 833 Princeton Avenue SW
Birmingham, AL 8,626 896 13,755 — 896 13,755  — 2018 1985 3485 Independence Drive
Boardman, OH — 80 12,161 40 80 12,201  4,585 2010 2007 8423 Market St
Boca Raton, FL — 31 12,312 896 251 12,988  3,622 2012 1993 9960 S. Central Park Boulevard
Boca Raton, FL — 109 34,002 3,823  214 37,720  14,246 2006 1995 9970 S. Central Park Blvd.
Boerne, TX — 50 12,951 454 86 13,369  3,535 2011 2007 134 Menger Springs Road
Boynton Beach, FL — 2,048  7,692 1,374  2,185 8,929  3,798 2006 1995 8188 Jog Rd.
Boynton Beach, FL — 2,048  7,403 1,631  2,185 8,897  3,902 2006 1997 8200 Jog Road
Boynton Beach, FL — 214 5,611 8,423  320 13,928  5,714 2007 1996 10075 Jog Rd.
Boynton Beach, FL — 13,324  40,369 2,925  14,049 42,569  11,591 2013 1995 10301 Hagen Ranch Road
(Dollars in thousands)  
    Initial Cost to Company    Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description Encumbrances Land Building &
Improvements Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent Land Building &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
BuiltAddress
to
Acquisition
Outpatient Medical:              
Bradenton, FL  — 1,184  9,799  417 1,184  10,216 1,896  2014 1975 315 75th Street West
Bradenton, FL  — 1,035  4,298  17 1,035  4,315 889 2014 2006 7005 Cortez Road West
Brandon, FL  — 1,437  7,006  — 1,437  7,006 182 2018 2016 2020 Town Center Boulevard
Bridgeton, MO  — 1,701  6,228  193 1,501  6,621 649 2017 2008 3440 De Paul Ln.
Bridgeton, MO  — 450 21,221  265 450 21,486 6,906  2010 2006 12266 DePaul Dr
Buckhurst Hill, UK  — 11,989  50,907  — 11,989  50,907 4,885  2015 2013 High Road
Burleson, TX  — 10 12,61 1 731 10 13,342 4,177  2011 2007 12001 South Freeway
Burnsville, MN  — — 31,596  1,463  — 33,059 8,685  2013 2014 14101 Fairview Dr
Carmel, IN  — 2,280  19,238  944 2,475  19,987 7,581  2011 2005 12188-A  North Meridian Street
Carmel, IN  — 2,026  21,559  186 2,186  21,585 8,691  2011 2007 12188-B North Meridian Street
Castle Rock, CO  — 80 13,004  586 79 13,591 3,008  2014 2013 2352 Meadows Boulevard
Castle Rock, CO  — — 11,795  165 — 11,960 483 2016 2017 Meadows Boulevard
Cedar Park, TX  — 132 23,753  — 132 23,753 1,819  2017 2014 1401 Medical Parkway , Building 2
Chapel Hill, NC  5,259  1,970  8,874  — 1,970  8,874 — 2018 2007 6011 Farrington Road
Chapel Hill, NC  5,259  1,970  8,925  — 1,970  8,925 — 2018 2007 6013 Farrington Road
Chapel Hill, NC  14,949  5,681  25,035  — 5,681  25,035 — 2018 2006 2226 North Carolina Highway 54
Charleston, SC  — 2,773  25,928  124 2,815  26,010 4,988  2014 2009 325 Folly Road
Cincinnati, OH  — — 17,880  250 2 18,128 3,561  2012 2013 3301 Mercy Health Boulevard
Claremore, OK  — 132 11,173  76 132 11,249 3,318  2007 2005 1501 N. Florence Ave.
Clarkson Valley , MO  — — 35,592  — — 35,592 12,590  2009 2010 15945 Clayton Rd
Clear Lake, TX  — — 13,882  20 — 13,902 1,504  2013 2014 1010 South Ponds Drive
Columbia, MD  — 23 33,885  1,766  9,353  26,321 6,522  2015 1982 5450 & 5500 Knoll N Dr .
Columbia, MD  — 12,159  72,636  — 12,159  72,636 249 2018 2009 10710 Charter Drive
Columbia, MD  — 2,333  19,232  1,567  2,333  20,799 4,971  2012 2002 10700 Charter Drive
Coon Rapids, MN  — — 26,679  1,123  — 27,802 5,356  2013 2014 11850 Blackfoot Street NW
Costa Mesa, CA  22,020  22,033  24,332  179 22,033  24,51 1 3,664  2017 2007 1640 Newport Boulevard
Cypress, TX  — 1,287  — — 1,287  — — 2016 1900 14940 Mueschke Road
Dade City , FL  — 1,211 5,511 — 1,211 5,511 1,476  2011 1998 13413 US Hwy 301
Dallas, TX  — 122 15,418  — 122 15,418 1,681  2013 2014 8196 Walnut Hill Lane
Dallas, TX  — 137 28,690  3,836  137 32,526 13,032  2006 1995 9330 Poppy Dr .
Dallas, TX  — 462 52,488  2,070  462 54,558 11,436  2012 2004 7115 Greenville Avenue
Dallas, TX  — 6,086  18,007  — 6,086  18,007 373 2018 2010 10740 North Central Expressway
Dayton, OH  — 730 6,919  362 730 7,281 3,039  2011 1988 1530 Needmore Road
Deerfield Beach, FL  — 2,408  7,809  793 2,540  8,470 3,356  2011 2001 1192 East Newport Center Drive
Delray Beach, FL  — 1,882  34,767  7,280  2,449  41,480 18,890  2006 1985 5130-5150 Linton Blvd.
Durham, NC  — 1,212  22,858  2 1,212  22,860 3,958  2013 2012 1823 Hillandale Road
Edina, MN  — 310 15,132  989 310 16,121 4,820  2010 2003 8100 W 78th St
El Paso, TX  — 677 17,075  2,457  677 19,532 8,868  2006 1997 2400 Trawood Dr .
Elmhurst, IL  — 41 39,562  — 41 39,562 — 2018 2011 133 E Brush Hill Road
Everett, WA  — 4,842  26,010  1 4,842  26,01 1 7,650  2010 2011 13020 Meridian Ave. S.
Fenton, MO  10,559  958 27,485  439 958 27,924 7,480  2013 2009 1011 Bowles Avenue
Fenton, MO  — 369 13,91 1 357 369 14,268 2,793  2013 2009 1055 Bowles Avenue
Florham Park, NJ  — 8,578  61,779  — 8,578  61,779 1,953  2017 2017 150 Park Avenue
(Dollars in thousands)   
  Initial Cost to Company    Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description Encumbrances Land  Building &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition  Land  Building &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
Acquired  Year
Built  Address
Outpatient Medical:                
Flower Mound, TX — 737 9,276  — 737 9,276  1,475 2015  2014  2560 Central Park Avenue
Flower Mound, TX — 4,164  27,027  962 4,164  27,989  4,930 2014  2012  4370 Medical Arts Drive
Flower Mound, TX — 4,620  — — 4,620  — — 2014  1900  Medical Arts Drive
Fort Wayne, IN — 1,105  22,836  — 1,105  22,836  5,324 2012  2004  7916 Jef ferson Boulevard
Fort Worth, TX — 462 26,020  373 462 26,393  5,128 2012  2012  10840 Texas Health Trail
Fort Worth, TX — 401 6,099  1 401 6,100  1,227 2014  2007  7200 Oakmont Boulevard
Franklin, TN — 2,338  12,138  2,821  2,338  14,959  6,092 2007  1988  100 Covey Drive
Frisco, TX — — 18,635  1,534  — 20,169  7,805 2007  2004  4401 Coit Road
Frisco, TX — — 15,309  2,549  — 17,858  7,344 2007  2004  4461 Coit Road
Fullerton, CA — 5,477  53,890  433 5,477  54,323  3,694 2014  2007  1950 Sunny Crest Drive
Gallatin, TN — 20 21,801  1,868  44 23,645  8,066 2010  1997  300 Steam Plant Rd
Gardendale, AL 4,300 1,150  8,162  — 1,150  8,162  — 2018  2005  2217 Decatur Highway
Gig Harbor , WA — 80 30,810  982 80 31,792  3,944 2010  2009  11511 Canterwood Blvd. NW
Glendale, CA — 37 18,398  1,651  37 20,049  6,951 2007  2002  222 W. Eulalia St.
Gloucester , VA — 2,128  9,169  — 2,128  9,169  — 2018  2008  5659 Parkway Drive
Grand Prairie, TX — 981 6,086  — 981 6,086  2,096 2012  2009  2740 N State Hwy 360
Grapevine, TX — — 5,943  4,778  2,081  8,640  1,603 2014  2002  2040 W State Hwy 1 14
Grapevine, TX — 3,365  15,669  1,661  3,365  17,330  3,778 2014  2002  2020 W State Hwy 1 14
Greeneville, TN — 970 10,104  74 970 10,178  3,880 2010  2005  438 East Vann Rd
Greenwood, IN — 8,316  26,384  — 8,316  26,384  6,879 2012  2010  1260 Innovation Parkway
Greenwood, IN — 2,098  21,538  638 2,098  22,176  3,486 2014  2013  3000 S State Road 135
Greenwood, IN — 1,262  7,045  8 1,262  7,053  1,589 2014  2010  333 E County Line Road
High Point, NC — 2,659  29,069  165 2,659  29,234  6,581 2012  2010  4515 Premier Drive
Highland, IL — — 8,834  — — 8,834  1,598 2012  2013  12860 Troxler Avenue
Houston, TX — 10,403  — — 10,403  — 6 2011 1900  F.M. 1960 & Northgate Forest Dr .
Houston, TX — 5,837  33,128  150 5,837  33,278  11,293 2012  2005  15655 Cypress Woods Medical Dr .
Houston, TX — 3,102  32,323  4,489  3,242  36,672  7,580 2014  2014  1900 N Loop W Freeway
Houston, TX — 3,688  13,313  132 3,688  13,445  3,449 2012  2007  10701 Vintage Preserve Parkway
Houston, TX — 1,099  1,604  80,605  12,815  70,493  14,163 2012  1998  2727 W Holcombe Boulevard
Houston, TX 3,899 377 13,726  — 377 13,726  — 2018  2011 20207 Chasewood Park Drive
Howell, MI — 2,000  13,928  803 2,000  14,731  459 2016  2017  1225 South Latson Road
Hudson, OH — 2,587  13,720  688 2,868  14,127  4,921 2012  2006  5655 Hudson Drive
Humble, TX — — 9,941  — — 9,941  1,036 2013  2014  8233 N. Sam Houston Parkway E.
Jackson, MI — 607 17,367  130 668 17,436  4,502 2013  2009  1201 E Michigan Avenue
Jupiter , FL — 2,252  11,415  3,422  2,636  14,453  5,598 2006  2001  550 Heritage Dr .
Jupiter , FL — 2,825  5,858  1,082  3,036  6,729  3,037 2007  2004  600 Heritage Dr .
Killeen, TX — — 3,756  — — 3,756  325 2018  1990  2301 S. Clear Creek
Killeen, TX — 760 22,878  305 795 23,148  7,882 2010  2010  2405 Clear Creek Rd
Killeen, TX — 1,907  3,575  — 1,907  3,575  566 2011 2012  5702 E Central Texas Expressway
Kyle, TX — 2,569  14,384  538 2,569  14,922  2,962 2014  2011 135 Bunton Creek Road
La Jolla, CA — 12,855  32,658  705 12,855  33,363  5,946 2015  1989  4150 Regents Park Row
La Jolla, CA — 9,425  26,525  542 9,425  27,067  3,912 2015  1988  4120 & 4130 La Jolla Village Drive
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description Encumbrances LandBuilding &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Outpatient Medical:           
La Quinta, CA — 3,266 22,066  197 3,279 22,250 4,719  2014 2006 47647 Caleo Bay Drive
Lacey , WA 6,768 1,751 10,383  — 1,751 10,383 — 2018 1971 2555 Marvin Road Northeast
Lake St Louis, MO — 240 14,249  204 240 14,453 5,048  2010 2008 400 Medical Dr
Lakeway , TX — 2,801 — — 2,801 — — 2007 1900 Lohmans Crossing Road
Lakewood, CA — 146 14,885  2,294 146 17,179 6,528  2006 1993 5750 Downey Ave.
Lakewood, WA — 72 16,017  676 72 16,693 3,952  2012 2005 11307 Bridgeport Way SW
Land O Lakes, FL — 3,025 26,249  — 3,025 26,249 1,096  2017 2009 2100 Via Bella
Land O Lakes, FL — 1,376 6,750  — 1,376 6,750 313 2017 2011 2150 Via Bella
Las Vegas, NV — 6,127 — — 6,127 — — 2007 1900SW corner of Deer Springs Way and
Riley Street
Las Vegas, NV — 2,319 4,612  1,214 2,319 5,826 2,708  2006 1991 2870 S. Maryland Pkwy .
Las Vegas, NV — 74 15,287  1,484 74 16,771 6,416  2006 2000 1815 E. Lake Mead Blvd.
Las Vegas, NV — 433 6,921  214 433 7,135 3,196  2007 1997 1776 E. Warm Springs Rd.
Lenexa, KS — 540 17,926  290 540 18,216 5,492  2010 2008 23401 Prairie Star Pkwy
Lenexa, KS — 100 13,766  — 100 13,766 1,751  2013 2013 23351 Prairie Star Parkway
Lincoln, NE — 1,420 29,723  1,052 1,420 30,775 10,875  2010 2003 575 South 70th St
London, UK — 5,229 11,551  — 5,229 11,551 1,108  2015 2007 17-19 View Road
London, UK — 17,983 157,802  — 17,983 157,802 15,142  2015 2010 53 Parkside
London, UK — 4,081 28,107  — 4,081 28,107 2,697  2015 2003 49 Parkside
Los Alamitos, CA — 39 18,635  1,114 39 19,749 7,389  2007 2003 3771 Katella Ave.
Los Gatos, CA — 488 22,386  2,410 488 24,796 11,137  2006 1993 555 Knowles Dr .
Loxahatchee, FL — 1,637 5,048  1,280 1,719 6,246 2,713  2006 1997 12977 Southern Blvd.
Loxahatchee, FL — 1,340 6,509  1,464 1,440 7,873 3,144  2006 1993 12989 Southern Blvd.
Loxahatchee, FL — 1,553 4,694  1,544 1,650 6,141 2,655  2006 1994 12983 Southern Blvd.
Lynbrook, NY 27,745 10,028 37,319  — 10,028 37,319 — 2018 1962 444 Merrick Road
Marietta, GA — 2,682 20,053  1,409 2,703 21,441 2,224  2016 2016 4800 Olde Towne Parkway
Melbourne, FL — 3,439 50,461  802 3,538 51,164 9,227  2014 2009 2222 South Harbor City Boulevard
Menasha, WI — 1,374 13,861  2,940 1,345 16,830 2,099  2016 1994 1550 Midway Place
Merced, CA — — 13,772  815 — 14,587 5,015  2009 2010 315 Mercy Ave.
Merriam, KS — 176 8,005  1,088 176 9,093 3,256  2011 1972 8800 West 75th Street
Merriam, KS — — 10,222  4,517 444 14,295 5,210  2011 1977 8901 West 74th Street
Merriam, KS — 1,257 24,91 1 64 1,257 24,975 6,116 2013 2009 9301 West 74th Street
Merrillville, IN — — 22,134  915 — 23,049 7,183  2008 2006 101 E. 87th Ave.
Mesa, AZ — 1,558 9,561  1,347 1,558 10,908 4,756  2008 1989 6424 East Broadway Road
Mesquite, TX — 496 3,834  — 496 3,834 1,035  2012 2012 1575 I-30
Mission Hills, CA 23,835 — 42,276  6,672 4,791 44,157 8,540  2014 1986 11550 Indian Hills Road
Missouri City , TX — 1,360 7,146  62 1,360 7,208 420 2015 2016 7010 Highway 6
Mobile, AL 16,028 2,759 25,180  — 2,759 25,180 — 2018 2003 6144 Airport Boulevard
Moline, IL — — 8,783  69 — 8,852 1,179  2012 2013 3900 28th Avenue Drive
Monticello, MN 6,976 61 18,489  131 61 18,620 3,986  2012 2008 1001 Hart Boulevard
Moorestown, NJ — 6 50,896  694 362 51,234 12,506  2011 2012 401 Young Avenue
Morrow , GA — 818 8,064  272 845 8,309 4,320  2007 1990 6635 Lake Drive
Mount Juliet, TN — 1,566 11,697  1,734 1,601 13,396 5,609  2007 2005 5002 Crossings Circle
(Dollars in thousands)   
  Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period       
Description Encumbrances Land  Building &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition  Land  Building &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
Acquired  Year
Built  Address
Outpatient Medical:                
Mount Vernon, IL — — 24,892 25 — 24,917  6,306  2011 2012  2 Good Samaritan Way
Murrieta, CA — — 47,190 63 — 47,253  18,061  2010  2011 28078 Baxter Rd.
Murrieta, CA — 3,800  — — 3,800  — — 2014  1900  28078 Baxter Rd.
Nashville, TN — 1,806  7,165 3,728  1,942  10,757  4,509  2006  1986  310 25th Ave. N.
Nassau Bay , TX — 378 29,947 — 378 29,947  7,296  2012  1981  18100 St John Drive
Nassau Bay , TX — 91 10,613 1,386  91 11,999  3,829  2012  1986  2060 Space Park Drive
New Albany , IN — 2,411 16,494 30 2,411 16,524  2,981  2014  2001  2210 Green Valley Road
Niagara Falls, NY — 1,433  10,891 441 1,721  11,044  5,761  2007  1995  6932 - 6934 Williams Rd
Niagara Falls, NY — 454 8,362 310 454 8,672  3,298  2007  2004  6930 Williams Rd
Oklahoma City , OK — 216 19,135 398 216 19,533  5,116 2013  2008  535 NW  9th Street
Oro Valley , AZ — 89 18,339 1,052  89 19,391  6,798  2007  2004  1521 East Tangerine Rd.
Palmer , AK — 283 8,335 — 283 8,335  171 2017  2018  2480 S Woodworth Loop
Palmer , AK — 217 29,705 1,442  217 31,147  10,991  2007  2006  2490 South Woodworth Loop
Pasadena, TX — 1,700  8,009 — 1,700  8,009  1,102  2012  2013  5001 E Sam Houston Parkway S
Pearland, TX — 1,500  11,253 11 1,500  11,264  1,457  2012  2013  2515 Business Center Drive
Pearland, TX — 9,594  32,753 191 9,807  32,731  5,033  2014  2013  11511 Shadow Creek Parkway
Pendleton, OR — — 10,312 380 — 10,692  1,362  2012  2013  3001 St. Anthony Way
Phoenix, AZ — 1,149  48,018 13,128  1,149  61,146  25,399  2006  1998  2222 E. Highland Ave.
Pineville, NC — 961 6,974 2,507  1,077  9,365  4,615  2006  1988  10512 Park Rd.
Plano, TX — 5,423  20,698 554 5,423  21,252  12,431  2008  2007  6957 Plano Parkway
Plano, TX — 793 83,209 2,668  793 85,877  20,969  2012  2005  6020 West Parker Road
Plantation, FL — 8,563  10,666 4,461  8,575  15,115 7,703  2006  1997  851-865 SW  78th Ave.
Plantation, FL — 8,848  9,262 1,442  8,908  10,644  6,782  2006  1996  600 Pine Island Rd.
Port Orchard, WA 10,172 2,810  22,716 — 2,810  22,716  — 2018  1995  450 South Kitsap Boulevard
Portland, ME — 655 25,529 — 655 25,529  7,892  2011 2008  195 Fore River Parkway
Redmond, WA — 5,015  26,697 1,080  5,015  27,777  8,340  2010  2011 18000 NE Union Hill Rd.
Reno, NV — 1,117 21,972 2,068  1,117 24,040  9,409  2006  1991  343 Elm St.
Richmond, TX — 2,000  9,118 7 2,000  9,125  627 2015  2016  22121 FM 1093 Road
Richmond, VA — 2,969  26,697 882 3,059  27,489  8,796  2012  2008  7001 Forest Avenue
Rockwall, TX — 132 17,197 143 132 17,340  4,240  2012  2008  3142 Horizon Road
Rogers, AR — 1,062  28,680 3,206  1,062  31,886  9,999  2011 2008  2708 Rife Medical Lane
Rolla, MO — 1,931  47,639 1 1,931  47,640  12,977  2011 2009  1605 Martin Spring Drive
Roswell, NM — 183 5,850 — 183 5,850  1,870  2011 2004  601 West Country Club Road
Roswell, NM — 883 15,984 41 883 16,025  4,578  2011 2006  350 West Country Club Road
Roswell, NM — 762 17,171 — 762 17,171  4,082  2011 2009  300 West Country Club Road
Sacramento, CA — 866 12,756 2,023  869 14,776  5,835  2006  1990  8120 Timberlake Way
Salem, NH — 1,655  14,050 46 1,681  14,070  3,046  2014  2013  31 Stiles Road
San Antonio, TX — 1,057  10,101 — 1,057  10,101  4,943  2006  1999  19016 Stone Oak Pkwy .
San Antonio, TX — 1,038  9,173 1,758  1,096  10,873  5,389  2006  1999  540 Stone Oak Centre Drive
San Antonio, TX — 4,518  31,041 4,087  4,593  35,053  10,558  2012  1986  5282 Medical Drive
San Antonio, TX — 900 17,288 798 938 18,048  4,489  2014  2007  3903 Wiseman Boulevard
San Antonio, TX — 3,050  12,073 — 3,050  12,073  47 2016  2017  5206 Research Drive
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company    Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description Encumbrances Land  Building &
Improvements  Cost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition  Land  Building &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation(1) Year
Acquired  Year
Built Address
Outpatient Medical:                
Santa Clarita, CA — — 2,338  20,485  5,304  17,519  3,177  2014  1976 23861 McBean Parkway
Santa Clarita, CA — — 28,384  1,866  5,277  24,973  4,346  2014  1998 23929 McBean Parkway
Santa Clarita, CA — 278 185 11,594  11,872  185 151 2014  1996 23871 McBean Parkway
Santa Clarita, CA 25,000 295 40,257  60 295 40,317  5,184  2014  2013 23803 McBean Parkway
Santa Clarita, CA — — 20,618  919 4,407  17,130  3,150  2014  1989 24355 L yons Avenue
Sarasota, FL — 62 47,325  4,118 62 51,443  13,413  2012  1990 1921 Waldemere Street
Seattle, WA — 4,410  38,428  392 4,410  38,820  15,744  2010  2010 5350 Tallman Ave
Sewell, NJ — 60 57,929  846 164 58,671  23,914  2007  2009 239 Hurf fville-Cross Keys Road
Sewell, NJ — 1,242  11,616  — 1,242  11,616  — 2018  2007 556 Egg Harbor Road
Shakopee, MN 5,654 508 11,412  851 509 12,262  4,159  2010  1996 1515 St Francis Ave
Shakopee, MN 9,541 707 18,089  95 773 18,118 5,061  2010  2007 1601 St Francis Ave
Shenandoah, TX — — 21,135  62 24 21,173  2,117 2013  2014 106 Vision Park Boulevard
Sherman Oaks, CA — — 32,186  3,228  3,121  32,293  6,038  2014  1969 4955 Van Nuys Boulevard
Silverdale, WA 13,378 3,451  21,176  — 3,451  21,176  — 2018  2004 2200 NW  Myhre Road
Somerville, NJ — 3,400  22,244  2 3,400  22,246  5,793  2008  2007 30 Rehill Avenue
Southlake, TX — 3,000  — — 3,000  — — 2014  1900 Central Avenue
Southlake, TX — 592 18,243  1,821  592 20,064  5,076  2012  2004 1545 East Southlake Boulevard
Southlake, TX — 698 30,549  3,915  698 34,464  7,578  2012  2004 1545 East Southlake Boulevard
Springfield, IL — 1,569  10,350  — 1,568  10,351  1,244  2010  2011 1100 East Lincolnshire Blvd
Springfield, IL — 177 3,519  31 177 3,550  440 2010  2011 2801 Mathers Rd.
St Paul, MN — 49 37,695  348 49 38,043  5,050  2014  2006 225 Smith Avenue N.
St. Louis, MO — 336 17,247  2,068  336 19,315  7,425  2007  2001 2325 Dougherty Rd.
St. Paul, MN — 2,706  39,507  309 2,701  39,821  12,101  2011 2007 435 Phalen Boulevard
Stamford, CT — — 41,153  3,071  — 44,224  2,403  2015  2016 29 Hospital Plaza
Suffern, NY — 653 37,255  283 698 37,493  11,886  2011 2007 257 Lafayette Avenue
Suffolk, VA — 1,566  11,511 68 1,620  11,525  4,693  2010  2007 5838 Harbour View Blvd.
Sugar Land, TX — 3,543  15,532  — 3,543  15,532  5,290  2012  2005 11555 University Boulevard
Tacoma, WA — — 64,307  — — 64,307  17,445  2011 2013 1608 South J Street
Tallahassee, FL — — 17,449  — — 17,449  5,855  2010  2011 One Healing Place
Tampa, FL — 4,319  12,234  — 4,319  12,234  2,803  2011 2003 14547 Bruce B Downs Blvd
Tampa, FL — 1,462  7,270  — 1,462  7,270  331 2017  1996 12500 N Dale Mabry
Temple, TX — 2,900  9,954  26 2,900  9,980  1,628  2011 2012 2601 Thornton Lane
Timonium, MD — 8,829  12,568  30 8,850  12,577  794 2015  2017 2118 Greenspring Drive
Tucson, AZ — 1,302  4,925  990 1,325  5,892  2,886  2008  1995 2055 W. Hospital Dr .
Tustin, CA — 3,345  541 325 3,345  866 290 2015  1976 14591 Newport Ave
Tustin, CA — 3,361  12,039  1,880  3,361  13,919  2,891  2015  1985 14642 Newport Ave
Van Nuys, CA — — 36,187  — — 36,187  9,842  2009  1991 6815 Noble Ave.
Voorhees, NJ — 6,404  24,251  1,816  6,477  25,994  9,866  2006  1997 900 Centennial Blvd.
Voorhees, NJ — 6 96,075  447 99 96,429  25,331  2010  2012 200 Bowman Drive
Waco, TX — 601 2,594  — 601 2,594  — 2018  2000 6600 Fish Pond Rd
Waco, TX 14,930 2,250  28,632  — 2,250  28,632  — 2018  1981 601 Highway 6 West
Washington, P A 19,425 3,981  31,706  — 3,981  31,706  — 2018  2010 100 Trich Drive
Wausau, WI — 2,050  12,175  — 2,050  12,175  788 2015  2017 1901 Westwood Center Boulevard
(Dollars in thousands)   
   Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period      
Description  Encumbrances Land  Building &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent
to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
Acquired  Year
Built  Address
Outpatient Medical:             
Waxahachie, TX  — — 18,784 230 303 18,71 1 1,749 2016  2014  2460 N I-35 East
Wellington, FL  — 107 16,933 2,705 326 19,419  7,051 2006  2000  10115 Forest Hill Blvd.
Wellington, FL  — 388 13,697 1,756 580 15,261  5,163 2007  2003  1395 State Rd. 7
West Seneca, NY  — 917 22,435 4,230 1,665 25,917  10,390 2007  1990  550 Orchard Park Rd
Westlake Village, CA  6,360 2,487  9,776 — 2,487 9,776  154 2018  1989  1220 La Venta Drive
Westlake Village, CA  8,002 2,553  15,851 — 2,553 15,851  214 2018  1975  1250 La Venta Drive
Woodbridge, VA  — 346 16,629 — 346 16,629  — 2018  2012  12825 Minnieville Road
Zephyrhills, FL  — 3,875  27,270 — 3,875 27,270  6,850 2011 1974  38135 Market Square Dr
Zephyrhills, FL  — 5,927  29,082 — 5,927 29,082  742 2018  2016  2352 Bruce B Downs Boulevard
Outpatient Medical
Total  $ 386,737 $645,891 $5,233,682 $357,41 1 $712,257 $5,524,727 $ 1,276,138     
106
Welltower Inc.  
Schedule III  
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  
December 31, 2018  
(Dollars in thousands)  
   Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description Encumbrances  Land  Buildings &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
Acquisition  LandBuildings &
Improvements  Accumulated
DepreciationYear
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Assets Held For  Sale:  
Agawam, MA $ — $ 880 $ 10,044 $ — $ — $ 8,696  $ — 2011 1996153 Cardinal Drive
Agawam, MA — 1,230  13,618 — — 6,074  — 2011 197561 Cooper Street
Agawam, MA — 930 15,304 — — 6,511 — 2011 197055 Cooper Street
Agawam, MA — 920 10,661 — — 4,592  — 2011 1985464 Main Street
Agawam, MA — 920 10,562 — — 4,537  — 2011 196765 Cooper Street
Ayer, MA — — 22,074 — — 8,691  — 2011 1988400 Groton Road
Beachwood, OH — 1,260  23,478 — — 10,503  — 2001 19903800 Park East Drive
Birmingham, UKG — 4 21,321 — — 13,200  — 2013 20065 Church Road, Edgbaston
Bridgewater , NJ — 1,850  3,050 — — 3,342  — 2004 1970875 Route 202/206 North
Broadview Heights,
OH — 920 12,400 — — 9,590  — 2001 19842801 E. Royalton Rd.
Canton, MA — 820 8,201 — — 2,626  — 2002 1993One Meadowbrook Way
Centerville, MA — 1,300  27,357 — — 23,139  — 2011 199822 Richardson Road
Charles Town, WV — 230 22,834 — — 18,509  — 2011 1997219 Prospect Ave
Cinnaminson, NJ — 860 6,663 — — 6,014  — 2011 19651700 Wynwood Drive
Cloquet, MN — 340 4,660 — — 4,285  — 2011 2006705 Horizon Circle
Concord, NH — 720 3,041 — — 3,344  — 2011 1926227 Pleasant Street
Dallas, TX — 1,080  9,655 — — 4,412  — 2011 19973611 Dickason Avenue
Gettysbur g, PA — 590 8,913 — — 7,501  — 2011 1987867 York Road
Glastonbury , CT — 1,950  9,532 — — 5,500  — 2011 196672 Salmon Brook Drive
Hambur g, PA — 840 10,543 — — 8,994  — 2011 1966125 Holly Road
Houston, TX — 5,090  9,471 — — 7,840  — 2007 200915015 Cypress Woods Medical Drive
Lancaster , NH — 160 434 — — 493 — 2011 190563 Country Village Road
Langhorne, P A — 1,350  24,881 — — 3,551  — 2011 1979262 Toll Gate Road
Lowell, MA — 1,070  13,481 — — 1,960  — 2011 1975841 Merrimack Street
Lowell, MA — 680 3,378 — — 3,155  — 2011 196930 Princeton Blvd
Mendham, NJ — 1,240  27,169 — — 23,295  — 2011 196884 Cold Hill Road
Merriam, KS — — 1,996 — — — — 2011 19807301 Frontage Street
Merriam, KS — — 5,862 — — — — 2011 19859119 West 74th Street
Middletown, RI — 2,480  24,628 — — 21,727  — 2011 1998303 Valley Road
Millville, NJ — 840 29,944 — — 24,559  — 2011 198654 Sharp Street
Monroe Twp, NJ — 1,160  13,193 — — 11,403  — 2011 1996292 Applegarth Road
Mystic, CT — 1,400  18,274 — — 15,316  — 2011 200120 Academy Lane Mystic
Niantic, CT — 1,320  25,986 — — 25,167  — 2011 2001417 Main Street
North Cape May , NJ — 77 151 48 — 276 — 2015 1988610 Town Bank Road
North Cape May , NJ — 600 22,266 — — 18,270  — 2011 1995700 Townbank Road
Palm Springs, FL — 739 4,066 — — 2,061  — 2006 19931640 S. Congress Ave.
Palm Springs, FL — 1,182  7,765 — — 3,477  — 2006 19971630 S. Congress Ave.
(Dollars in thousands)  
   Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period     
Description Encumbrances  LandBuildings &
ImprovementsCost
Capitalized
Subsequent to
Acquisition LandBuildings &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation  Year
AcquiredYear
Built Address
Assets Held For  Sale:  
Pennsauken, NJ — 900 10,780 — — 9,172 — 2011 19855101 North Park Drive
Providence, RI — 2,655 21,910 — — 16,021 — 2011 1998700 Smith Street
Rockville, CT — 1,500 4,835 — — 5,073 — 2011 19601253 Hartford Turnpike
Sanatoga, P A — 980 30,695 — — 14,166 — 2011 1993225 Ever green Road
South Boston, MA — 385 2,002 1,525 — 3,912 — 1995 1961804 E. Seventh St.
South Windsor , CT — 3,000 29,295 — — 26,338 — 2011 1999432 Buckland Road
Swanton, OH — 330 6,370 — — 4,160 — 2004 1950401 W. Airport Hwy .
Troy, OH — 470 16,730 — — 10,730 — 2004 1971512 Crescent Drive
Trumbull, CT — 2,850 37,685 — — 32,020 — 2011 19982750 Reservoir Avenue 
Wallingford, CT — 490 1,210 — — 727 — 2011 196235 Marc Drive
Warwick, RI — 2,400 24,635 — — 21,633 — 2011 199875 Minnesota Avenue 
Waterbury , CT — 2,460 39,547 — — 30,909 — 2011 1998180 Scott Road 
West Chester , PA — 1,350 29,237 — — 24,564 — 2011 1974800 West Miner Street
West Orange, NJ — 2,280 10,687 — — 10,571 — 2011 196320 Summit Street
Westlake, OH — 1,330 17,926 — — 8,673 — 2001 198527601 Westchester Pkwy .
Wilbraham, MA — 660 17,639 — — 14,484 — 2011 20002387 Boston Road 
Wilkes-Barre, P A — 570 2,301 — — 1,176 — 2011 1992300 Courtright Street
Windsor , CT — 2,250 8,539 — — 10,218 — 2011 1969One Emerson Drive
Windsor , CT — 1,800 600 424 — 2,824 — 2011 1974One Emerson Drive
Wyncote, P A — 2,700 22,244 — — 20,290 — 2011 19601245 Church Road
Assets Held For  Sale
Total $ — $ 68,392 $ 821,723 $ 1,997 $ — $ 590,271 $ —    
107
   Initial Cost to Company   Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period
  Encumbrances Land  Buildings &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
Acquisition  LandBuildings &
Improvements  Accumulated
Depreciation
Summary:            
Seniors Housing Operating  $ 1,810,587 $ 1,331,171  $ 14,047,033 $ 1,206,757  $ 1,373,258 $ 15,21 1,900  $ 2,962,334
Triple-net  288,387 1,096,169  8,585,481 301,960  1,119,576 8,864,034  1,261,486
Outpatient Medical  386,737 645,891  5,233,682 357,41 1 712,257 5,524,727  1,276,138
Construction in progress  — — 194,365 — — 194,365  —
Total continuing operating pr operties  2,485,71 1 3,073,231 28,060,561 1,866,128 3,205,091 29,795,026 5,499,958
Assets held for sale  — 68,392  821,723 1,997  — 590,271  —
Total investments in r eal pr operty owned  $ 2,485,71 1 $ 3,141,623  $ 28,882,284 $ 1,868,125  $ 3,205,091 $ 30,385,297  $ 5,499,958
(1) Please see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding lives used for depreciation and amortization.
(2) Represents real property asset associated with a capital lease.
108
  Year Ended December 31,
  2018  2017 2016
    (in thousands)  
Investment in real estate:      
Beginning balance  $ 30,581,948 $ 30,041,058 $ 29,865,490
Acquisitions and development  4,598,670 1,276,636 2,834,279
Improvements  266,183 250,276 219,146
Deconsolidation of previously consolidated venture  — (144,897) —
Impairment of assets  (71,336) (101,527) (37,207)
Dispositions  (1,330,679) (1,203,247) (2,411,219)
Foreign currency translation  (454,398) 415,879 (429,431)
Other(1)  — 47,770 —
Ending balance(2)  $ 33,590,388 $ 30,581,948 $ 30,041,058
Accumulated depreciation:      
Beginning balance  $ 4,838,370 $ 4,093,494 $ 3,796,297
Depreciation and amortization expenses  950,459 921,720 901,242
Amortization of above market leases  6,375 7,303 7,909
Disposition and other  (205,562) (192,029) (514,651)
Foreign currency translation  (89,684) 7,882 (97,303)
Ending balance  $ 5,499,958 $ 4,838,370 $ 4,093,494
(1) Primarily relates to the acquisition of an asset through foreclosure.
(2) The unaudited aggregate cost for tax purposes for real property equals $25,618,090,000 at December 31, 2018.
109
Welltower Inc.
Schedule IV - Mortgage Loans on Real Estate
December 31, 2018
      (in thousands)
Location  Segment Interest Rate Final Maturity
DateMonthly
Payment
Terms  Prior LiensFace
Amount of
Mortgages Carrying
Amount of
MortgagesPrincipal
Amount of
Loans Subject
to Delinquent
Principal or
Interest
First mortgages relating to 1 property located in:       
California  Triple-net 8.11%  12/15/2020 $ — $ — $28,000 $ 9,247 $ —
California  Triple-net 7.95%  1/1/2022 1 — 131,100 53,172 —
United Kingdom  Triple-net 8.54%  12/14/2018 — — 2,678 1,284 —
United Kingdom  Triple-net 8.00%  8/24/2022 — — 11,041 6,638 —
United Kingdom  Triple-net 8.55%  7/1/2019 — — 14,600 14,599 —
United Kingdom  Triple-net 7.00%  3/15/2022 — — 26,748 20,283 —
United Kingdom  Triple-net 8.28%  7/6/2019 — — 19,131 19,131 —
Oklahoma  Triple-net 9.32%  11/1/2019 — — 11,610 11,595 —
Pennsylvania  Triple-net 8.47%  3/1/2022 — — 15,530 14,237 —
Florida  Triple-net 10.20%  6/23/2021 — — 17,100 17,385 —
North Carolina  Triple-net 7.60%  12/18/2023 — — 30,883 3,000 —
Texas  Outpatient medical 7.60%  1/19/2025 — — 3,740 3,733 —
United Kingdom  Triple-net 8.50%  12/31/2021 — — 19,104 6,505 —
First mortgages relating to multiple properties:       
4 properties in Texas  Triple-net 7.95%  1/1/2022 1 — 106,218 65,162
Second mortgages relating to 1 property located in:       
Texas  Triple-net 12.17%  5/1/2019 — 11,367 3,100 3,100
Totals        $11,367 $440,583 $249,071 $ —
 
  Year Ended December 31,
  2018  2017  2016
Reconciliation of mortgage loans:  (in thousands)
Balance at beginning of year  $ 306,120 $ 485,735 $ 635,492
Additions:       
New mortgage loans  25,290 6,706 8,223
Draws on existing loans  36,458 58,224 92,815
            Total Additions  61,748 64,930 101,038
Deductions:       
Collections of principal  (116,905) (180,135) (191,134)
Conversions to real property  — — (45,044)
Change in allowance for loan losses and charge-offs  — (71,535) (3,053)
Total deductions  (116,905) (251,670) (239,231)
Change in balance due to foreign currency translation  (1,892) 7,125 (11,564)
Balance at end of year  $ 249,071 $ 306,120 $ 485,735
110
