UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 10-K
 
☒ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021
☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from ____ to ____
 Commission File Number 1-8923
WELL TOWER INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware 34-1096634
(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)(I.R.S. Employer
Identification No.)
   
4500 Dorr Street,Toledo, Ohio 43615
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
(419) 247-2800
(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of Each Class Trading Symbol(s) Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
Common Stock, $1.00 par value WELL New York Stock Exchange
4.800% Notes due 2028 WELL28 New York Stock Exchange
4.500% Notes due 2034 WELL34 New York Stock Exchange
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes  ☑  No  ☐
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.  Yes  ☐   No  ☑
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  ☑  No  ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).  Yes  ☑  No  ☐  
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large
accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
Large accelerated filer ☑ Accelerated filer☐Non-accelerated filer☐Smaller reporting
company☐Emerging growth company ☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided
pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  Yes  ☐   No  ☑
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C.
7262(b)) by registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report ☑
The aggregate market value of the shares of voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing sales price of such shares on the New York Stock Exchange as of
the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter was $35,091,527,000.
As of February 4, 2022, the registrant had 447,279,642 shares of common stock outstanding.
 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
Portions of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for the annual stockholders’ meeting to be held May 9, 2022, are incorporated by reference into Part III.
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
2021 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
  Page
 PART I
   
Item 1. Business 2
Item 1A. Risk Factors 25
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 40
Item 2. Properties 41
Item 3. Legal Proceedings 42
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 42
   
 PART II
   
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 43
Item 6. [Reserved] 44
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 45
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 70
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 71
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 108
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 108
Item 9B. Other Information 110
Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 110
   
 PART III
   
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 110
Item 11. Executive Compensation 110
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 110
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 110
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 110
   
 PART IV
   
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 111
Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 117
 Signature 118
PART I 
Item 1. Business 
General
Welltower Inc. (NYSE:WELL), an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health care infrastructure. The company invests
with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund the real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery models
and improve people’s wellness and overall health care experience. Welltower™, a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), owns interests in properties concentrated in
major, high-growth markets in the United States (“U.S.”), Canada and the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), consisting of seniors housing, post-acute communities and
outpatient medical properties. More information is available on the Internet at www.welltower.com. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference only.
Our primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders and create
opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of annual increases in net operating income and portfolio growth. To meet these objectives, we
invest across the full spectrum of seniors housing and health care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type, relationship and geographic
location.
References herein to “we,” “us,” “our” or the “company” refer to Welltower Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries unless specifically noted otherwise.
Portfolio of Properties
Please see “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation – Executive Summary – Company Overview” for a
table that summarizes our portfolio as of December 31, 2021.
Property Types
We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate and evaluate our business through three reportable segments: Seniors Housing Operating, Triple-net and
Outpatient Medical. For additional information regarding our segments, please see Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements. The accounting policies of the
segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. The following is a
summary of our various property types. 
Seniors Housing Operating
Our Seniors Housing Operating properties include seniors apartments, independent living and independent supportive living, continuing care retirement communities,
assisted living, Alzheimer's/dementia care and include care homes with or without nursing (U.K.), which assist with activities of daily living that preserve a person's
mobility and social systems to promote cognitive engagement. Our properties include stand-alone properties that provide one level of service, combination properties
that provide multiple levels of service and communities or campuses that provide a wide range of services. Properties are primarily held in joint venture entities with
operating partners. We utilize the structure authorized by the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007, which is commonly referred to as a
“RIDEA” structure (the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code authorizing the RIDEA structure were enacted as part of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of
2008). 
Seniors Apartments Seniors apartments generally refer to age-restricted multi-unit housing with self-contained living units for older adults, usually aged 55+ who are
able to care for themselves. Seniors apartments generally do not offer other additional services such as meals.
Independent Living and Independent Supportive Living (Canada)  Independent living and independent supportive living generally refers to age-restricted, multifamily
properties with central dining that provide residents access to meals and other services such as housekeeping, linen service, transportation and social and recreational
activities. 
Continuing Care Retirement Communities  Continuing care retirement communities typically include a combination of detached homes and properties offering
independent living, assisted living and/or long-term/post-acute care services on one campus. These communities appeal to residents because there is no need to relocate
when health and medical needs change. Resident payment plans vary, but can include entrance fees, condominium fees and rental fees. Many of these communities also
charge monthly maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services. 
Assisted Living  Assisted living refers to state-regulated rental properties that provide independent living services, but also provide supportive care from trained
employees to residents who require assistance with activities of daily living, including, but not limited to, management of medications, bathing, dressing, toileting,
ambulating and eating.
Alzheimer’s/Dementia Care  Alzheimer's/Dementia Care refers to state-regulated rental properties that generally provide assisted living and independent living
services, but also provide supportive care to residents with memory loss, Alzheimer's disease and/or other types of dementia. Amenities vary, but may include enhanced
security, specialized design features and memory-enhancing therapies that promote relaxation and help slow cognitive decline.
2
Care Homes with or without Nursing (U.K.)  Care homes without nursing, regulated by the Care Quality Commission ("CQC”), are rental properties that provide
essentially the same services as U.S. assisted living. Care homes with nursing, also regulated by the CQC, are licensed daily rate or rental properties where most
individuals require 24-hour nursing and/or medical care. Generally, these properties are licensed for various national and local reimbursement programs. Unlike the
U.S., care homes with nursing in the U.K. generally do not provide post-acute care.
Our Seniors Housing Operating segment accounted for 68%, 67% and 67% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. As
of December 31, 2021, we had relationships with 38 operators to manage our Seniors Housing Operating properties. In each instance, our partner provides management
services to the properties pursuant to an incentive-based management contract. We rely on our partners to effectively and efficiently manage these properties. For the
year ended December 31, 2021, our relationship with Sunrise Senior Living accounted for approximately 33% of our Seniors Housing Operating segment revenues and
22% of our total revenues. Additionally Revera accounted for approximately 11% of our Seniors Housing Operating segment revenues and 7% our total revenues.
Revera owns a controlling interest in Sunrise Senior Living.
Triple-net
Our Triple-net properties offer services including independent living and independent supportive living (Canada), assisted living, continuing care retirement
communities, Alzheimer's/dementia care and care homes with or without nursing (U.K.) described above, as well as long-term/post-acute care. Our properties include
stand-alone properties that provide one level of service, combination facilities that provide multiple levels of service, and communities or campuses that provide a wide
range of services. We invest primarily through acquisitions, development and joint venture partnerships. Our properties are primarily leased to operators under long-
term, triple-net master leases that obligate the tenant to pay all operating costs, utilities, real estate taxes, insurance, building repairs, maintenance costs and all
obligations under certain ground leases. We are not involved in property management.
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care Facilities  Post-acute care is at the leading edge of reducing health care costs while improving quality. These high-impact centers help
patients recover from illness or surgery with the goals of getting the patient home and healed faster and reducing hospital readmission rates. Our long-term/post-acute
care properties generally offer skilled nursing/post-acute care, inpatient rehabilitation and long-term acute care services. Skilled nursing/post-acute care refers to
licensed daily rate or rental properties where most individuals require 24-hour nursing and/or medical care. Generally, these properties are licensed for Medicaid and/or
Medicare reimbursement in the U.S. or provincial reimbursement in Canada. All properties offer some level of rehabilitation services. Some properties focus on higher
acuity patients and offer rehabilitation units specializing in cardiac, orthopedic, dialysis, neurological or pulmonary rehabilitation. Inpatient rehabilitation properties
provide intensive inpatient services after illness, injury or surgery to patients able to tolerate and benefit from three hours of rehabilitation per day. Long-term acute care
properties provide inpatient services for patients with complex medical conditions that require more intensive care, monitoring or emergency support than is available in
most skilled nursing/post-acute care properties.
Our Triple-net segment accounted for 19%, 17% and 19% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. For the year ended
December 31, 2021, our revenues related to our relationship with ProMedica Health System ("ProMedica") accounted for approximately 26% of our Triple-net segment
revenues and 5% of total revenues. As of December 31, 2021, our relationship with ProMedica was comprised of a master lease for 205 properties owned by a joint
venture landlord of which we own 80%. In addition to rent, the master lease requires ProMedica to pay all operating costs, utilities, real estate taxes, insurance, building
repairs, maintenance costs and all obligations under certain ground leases. All obligations under the master lease have been guaranteed by ProMedica.
For the year ended December 31, 2021, our revenues related to our relationship with Genesis Healthcare ("Genesis") accounted for approximately 6% of our Triple-
net segment revenues and 1% of our total revenues. During 2020, Genesis indicated substantial doubt as to their ability to continue as a going concern. As a result,
effective July 1, 2020, we recognized reserves for all existing straight-line rent receivable balances of $91,025,000 as a reduction to rental income and now recognize
rental income from Genesis on a cash basis. Additionally, in March 2021, we entered into definitive agreements to substantially exit our operating relationship with
Genesis. As of December 31, 2021, we have transitioned nine facilities to an 80/20 joint venture with ProMedica. Additionally, operations have transitioned to new
operators for 39 of the remaining 42 properties, with three properties expected to transition at a later date. We have entered into definitive agreements to sell the 42
properties to either a joint venture with Aurora Health Network, the new operator and us, or to sell outright. As of December 31, 2021, we have closed on the sale of 25
of those properties. An additional ten properties are classified as held for sale and the remaining seven properties are expected to be sold in 2023. As a result, as of
December 31, 2021, our relationship with Genesis was comprised of three properties owned 100% by us and master leased to Genesis, which are currently classified as
held for sale, a loan balance net of allowance for credit losses of $154,476,000, approximately 9.5 million shares of GEN Series A common stock and a 25% ownership
stake in an unconsolidated joint venture that includes two master leases for 28 properties operated by Genesis.
3
Outpatient Medical
Outpatient Medical Buildings  Demand for outpatient medical services is growing as more procedures are performed safely and efficiently outside the hospital setting.
State-of-the-art outpatient centers are needed in accessible, consumer-friendly locations. Our portfolio of outpatient medical buildings is an integral part of creating
health care provider connectivity in local markets and generally include physician offices, ambulatory surgery centers, diagnostic facilities, outpatient services and/or
labs. Approximately 87% of our outpatient medical building portfolio is affiliated with health systems (buildings directly on or adjacent to hospital campuses or with
tenants that are satellite locations for the health system and its physicians). We typically lease our outpatient medical buildings to multiple tenants and provide varying
levels of property management. Our Outpatient Medical segment accounted for 13%, 16% and 13% of total revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2021,
2020 and 2019, respectively. No single tenant exceeds 20% of segment revenues.
Investments
Providing high-quality and affordable health care to an aging global population requires vast investments and infrastructure development. We invest in seniors
housing and health care real estate primarily through acquisitions, developments and joint venture partnerships. For additional information regarding acquisition and
development activity, please see Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements. Our portfolio creates opportunities to connect partners across the continuum of care
and drive efficiency. We seek to diversify our investment portfolio by property type, relationship and geographic location. In determining whether to invest in a property,
we focus on the following: (1) the experience of the obligor’s/partner’s management team; (2) the historical and projected financial and operational performance of the
property; (3) the credit of the obligor/partner; (4) the security for any lease or loan; (5) the real estate attributes of the building and its location; (6) the capital committed
to the property by the obligor/partner; and (7) the operating fundamentals of the applicable industry. 
We monitor our investments through a variety of methods determined by the type of property. Our asset management process for seniors housing properties generally
includes review of monthly financial statements and other operating data for each property, review of obligor/partner creditworthiness, property inspections, and review
of covenant compliance relating to licensure, real estate taxes, letters of credit and other collateral. Our internal property management division manages and monitors
the outpatient medical portfolio with a comprehensive process including review of, among other things, tenant relations, lease expirations, the mix of health service
providers, hospital/health system relationships, property performance, capital improvement needs, and market conditions. 
Investment Types 
Real Property  Our properties are primarily comprised of land, buildings, improvements and related rights. Our triple-net properties are generally leased to operators
under long-term operating leases. The leases generally have a fixed contractual term of 12 to 15 years and contain one or more five to 15-year renewal options. Certain
of our leases also contain purchase options, a portion of which could result in the disposition of properties for less than full market value if the options were to be
exercised. Most of our rents are received under triple-net leases requiring the operator to pay rent and all additional charges incurred in the operation of the leased
property. The tenants are required to repair, rebuild and maintain the leased properties. Substantially all these operating leases are designed with escalating rent
structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment.
Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. 
At December 31, 2021, approximately 94% of our triple-net properties were subject to master leases. A master lease is a lease of multiple properties to one tenant
entity under a single lease agreement. From time to time, we may acquire additional properties that are then leased to the tenant under the master lease. The tenant is
required to make one monthly payment that represents rent on all the properties that are subject to the master lease. Typically, the master lease tenant can exercise its
right to purchase the properties or to renew the master lease only with respect to all leased properties at the same time. We believe this bundling feature benefits us
because the tenant cannot limit the purchase or renewal to better performing properties and terminate the leasing arrangement with respect to poorer performing
properties. This spreads our risk among the entire group of properties within the master lease. The bundling feature should provide a similar advantage to us if the
master lease tenant is in bankruptcy. Subject to certain restrictions, a debtor in bankruptcy has the right to assume or reject its unexpired leases and executory
contracts. In the context of integrated master leases such as ours, our tenants in bankruptcy would be required to assume or reject the master lease as a whole, rather than
deciding on a property by property basis. 
Our Outpatient Medical portfolio is primarily self-managed and consists mainly of multi-tenant properties leased to health care providers. Our leases typically include
increasers and some form of operating expense reimbursement by the tenant. As of December 31, 2021, 65% of our portfolio included leases with full pass through,
30% with a partial expense reimbursement (modified gross) and 5% with no expense reimbursement (gross). Our outpatient medical leases are non-cancellable
operating leases that have a weighted-average remaining term of five years at December 31, 2021 and are often credit enhanced by security deposits, guarantees and/or
letters of credit.
4
Construction  We provide for the construction of properties for tenants primarily as part of long-term operating leases. We capitalize certain interest costs associated
with funds used for the construction of properties owned by us. The amount capitalized is based upon the amount advanced during the construction period using the rate
of interest that approximates our company-wide cost of financing. Our interest expense is reduced by the amount capitalized. The construction period commences upon
funding and terminates upon the earlier of the completion of the applicable property or the end of a specified period. During the construction period, we advance funds
to the tenants in accordance with agreed upon terms and conditions which require, among other things, periodic site visits by a company representative. During the
construction period, we generally require an additional credit enhancement in the form of payment and performance bonds and/or completion guarantees. At December
31, 2021, we had outstanding construction investments of $651,389,000 and were committed to provide additional funds of approximately $1,208,913,000 to complete
construction for consolidated investment properties. We also provide for construction loans which, depending on the terms and conditions, could be treated as loans, real
property or investments in unconsolidated entities. 
Loans  Our real estate loans are typically structured to provide us with interest income, principal amortization and transaction fees. Real estate loans consist of
mortgage loans and other real estate loans which are primarily collateralized by a first, second or third mortgage lien, a leasehold mortgage on, or an assignment of the
partnership interest in the related properties, corporate guarantees and/or personal guarantees. Non-real estate loans are generally corporate loans with no real estate
backing. At December 31, 2021, we had outstanding loans, net of allowances, of $1,292,308,000 with an interest yield of approximately 11.2% per annum. Our yield on
loans depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest rate, average principal amount outstanding during the term of the loan and any interest rate
adjustments. The loans outstanding at December 31, 2021 are generally subject to one to 15-year terms with principal amortization schedules and/or balloon payments
of the outstanding principal balances at the end of the term.
Investments in Unconsolidated Entities Investments in entities that we do not consolidate but for which we can exercise significant influence over operating and
financial policies are reported under the equity method of accounting. At December 31, 2021, we had investments in unconsolidated entities of $1,039,043,000. Our
investments in unconsolidated entities generally represent interests ranging from 10% to 65% in real estate assets. Under the equity method of accounting, our share of
the investee’s earnings or losses is included in our consolidated results of operations. The initial carrying value of investments in unconsolidated entities is based on the
amount paid to purchase the entity interest inclusive of transaction costs. We evaluate our equity method investments for impairment based upon a comparison of the
estimated fair value of the equity method investment to its carrying value. When we determine a decline in the estimated fair value of such an investment below its
carrying value is other-than-temporary, an impairment is recorded. 
In Substance Real Estate Additionally, we provide loans to third parties for the acquisition, development and construction of real estate. Under these arrangements, it
is possible that we will participate in the expected residual profits of the project through the sale, refinancing or acquisition of the property. We evaluate the
characteristics of each arrangement, including its risks and rewards, to determine whether they are more similar to those associated with a loan or an investment in real
estate. Arrangements with characteristics implying real estate joint ventures are treated as in substance real estate investments, accounted for using the equity method,
and are presented as investments in unconsolidated entities. We have made loans related to twelve properties with a carrying value of $317,647,000 as of December 31,
2021, which are classified as in substance real estate investments.
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements are in conformity with U.S general accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) and include the accounts of our wholly-
owned subsidiaries and joint venture entities that we control, through voting rights or other means. All material intercompany transactions and balances have been
eliminated in consolidation.
At inception of joint venture transactions, we identify entities for which control is achieved through means other than voting rights (“variable interest entities” or
“VIEs”) and determine which business enterprise is the primary beneficiary of its operations. A VIE is broadly defined as an entity where either (i) the equity investors
as a group, if any, do not have a controlling financial interest, or (ii) the equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity’s activities without additional
subordinated financial support. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary. Accounting Standards Codification Topic
810, "Consolidations", requires enterprises to perform a qualitative approach to determining whether or not a VIE will need to be consolidated. This evaluation is based
on an enterprise’s ability to direct and influence the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact that entity’s economic performance.
For investments in joint ventures, U.S. GAAP may preclude consolidation by the sole general partner in certain circumstances based on the type of rights held by the
limited partner(s). We assess the limited partners’ rights and their impact on our consolidation conclusions, and we reassess if there is a change to the terms or in the
exercisability of the rights of the limited partners, the sole general partner increases or decreases its ownership of limited partnership interests, or there is an increase or
decrease in the number of outstanding limited partnership interests. We similarly evaluate the rights of managing members of limited liability companies.
5
Borrowing Policies
We utilize a combination of debt and equity to fund investments. Generally, we intend to issue unsecured, fixed-rate public debt with long-term maturities to
approximate the maturities on our triple-net leases and investment strategy. For short-term purposes, we may borrow on our primary unsecured credit facility or issue
commercial paper. We replace these borrowings with long-term capital such as senior unsecured notes or common stock. When terms are deemed favorable, we may
invest in properties subject to existing mortgage indebtedness. In addition, we may obtain secured financing for unleveraged properties in which we have invested or
may refinance properties acquired on a leveraged basis. In certain agreements with our lenders, we are subject to restrictions with respect to secured and unsecured
indebtedness.
Competition
We compete with other real estate investment trusts, real estate partnerships, private equity and hedge fund investors, banks, insurance companies, finance/investment
companies, government-sponsored agencies, taxable and tax-exempt bond funds, health care operators, developers and other investors in the acquisition, development,
leasing and financing of health care and seniors housing properties. We compete for investments based on a number of factors including relationships, certainty of
execution, investment structures and underwriting criteria. Our ability to successfully compete is impacted by economic and demographic trends, availability of
acceptable investment opportunities, our ability to negotiate beneficial investment terms, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs and
applicable laws and regulations.
The operators/tenants of our properties compete with properties that provide comparable services in the local markets. Operators/tenants compete for patients and
residents based on a number of factors including quality of care, reputation, physical appearance of properties, location, services offered, family preferences (including a
preference for home health services instead of residing in one of our communities), physicians, staff and price. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, seniors housing
operators have experienced broad-based occupancy declines and as a result, we expect competition to continue in 2022 and beyond as operators attempt to fill
unoccupied units. We also face competition from other health care facilities for tenants, such as physicians and other health care providers that provide comparable
facilities and services.
For additional information on the risks associated with our business, please see “Item 1A — Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Environmental, Social and Governance
Environmental, Social and Governance ("ESG") Approach We are committed to operating in a responsible, transparent and sustainable manner. Our leadership and
Board of Directors (through the Nominating Corporate/Governance Committee), oversee and advance our ESG initiatives. We recognize that focusing on ESG
engagement, integration and impact benefit our stakeholders and are fundamental to our business. Our corporate responsibility and sustainability strategy is focused on
adopting leading ESG practices across our business and we were recognized for our leadership in this space over the past year in the following ways:
•Elevated by CDP to the highest available band level of leadership with an improved score of “A-” for taking coordinated action on climate issues;
•Raised MSCI ESG rating from A to AA;
•Named in 2021 to the Dow Jones Sustainability North American Index for the sixth consecutive year;
•Listed in the FTSE4Good Index since 2012;
•Recognized by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and U.S. Department of Energy as an ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year for the third
consecutive year and elevated to the level of Sustained Excellence, the EPA’s highest recognition within the ENERGY STAR program;
•Maintained Gold Level Green Lease Leader status by the Institute for Market Transformation and the U.S. Department of Energy’s Better Buildings Alliance;
•Named to the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index for the third consecutive year;
•Named to the Workplace Health Achievement Index by the American Heart Association for the fourth consecutive year, and increased from Bronze to Silver
level;
•Maintained Prime status under the ISS-ESG Corporate rating for the third consecutive year;
•Named by S&P Global in collaboration with RobecoSAM for the fourth consecutive year in the 2021 edition of The Sustainability Yearbook;
•Named to the top 20 percent of Newsweek’s America’s Most Responsible Companies list for the third consecutive year;
•Named to Sustainalytics 2021 Top-Rated ESG Companies list;
•Named as one of the top sustainable REITs in Barron’s list of America’s Most Sustainable Companies for the second consecutive year;
6
•Honored at the Women’s Forum of New York Breakfast of Champions for the second time for our representation of women on our Board of Directors; and
•Opened Sunrise at East 56th, the recipient of all three LEED Silver, WELL Certification at the Silver level, and WELL Health-Safety Rating Seal certifications.
Environmental We strive to reduce our environmental impact by increasing energy and water efficiency, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and by investing in
projects that reduce energy and water consumption that meet our rate of return threshold. After several years of portfolio and program evolution, along with our
increased ability to collect data in partnership with our operators and tenants, our property-level sustainability dataset (energy, greenhouse gas ("GHG"), water, and
waste) is evolving to become a set of tools for benchmarking. A portion of our self-managed Outpatient Medical portfolio is benchmarked in EPA ENERGY STAR
Portfolio Manager ("ESPM") and we regularly engage with our operators and tenants on ENERGY STAR, utility bill aggregators, utility companies, and others to add to
our number of ESPM benchmarked properties throughout our portfolio. In 2021, we continued to work towards our goals of a 10% reduction in GHG emissions and
energy and water usage by 2025 from our 2018 baseline.
We have employee, tenant, operator/manager and vendor engagement programs in place, focused on operational strategies to drive energy and water efficiency. We
have issued guidance with accompanying training to assist them to successfully benchmark our buildings and to engage them to improve energy and water efficiency, as
well as increase their recycling diversion rates.
In December 2019, we issued our inaugural green bond of $500,000,000 of 2.700% notes due 2027. The net proceeds from the offering have been, and continue to be,
used to fund energy efficiency, water conservation and green building projects. As of September 30, 2021, we have utilized $277,732,000 of proceeds from this issuance
on such projects.
We understand that as we continue to make our operations and buildings more sustainable, we also have a responsibility to effectuate the same in our supply chain and
our purchasing decisions. As such, we partner with suppliers that offer take back programs for their products, look for the ENERGY STAR label when purchasing
eligible items, seek to purchase office supply products that contain recycled content and purchase paper products that are either Forest Stewardship Council or
Sustainable Forestry Initiative certified.
Social We value and are committed to our employees. We believe that a diverse workplace produces a variety of perspectives, motivates employees and helps us
understand and better serve our stakeholders, and the communities in which we do business. As of December 31, 2021, our U.S. employees self-identified as follows:
Ethnicity Male Female
Asian 5 % 7 %
Black or African American 5 % 7 %
Hispanic or Latino 7 % 7 %
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander — % 1 %
Two or More Races 1 % 1 %
White 82 % 77 %
100 % 100 %
Gender 51 % 49 %
We have reinforced our already strong commitment to diversity and inclusion through our Diversity Council and support of our eight employee network groups
("ENGs"). Our ENGs include women, families, racial and ethnic minorities, military, young professionals, and those who identify as LGBTQI+ and their allies. Our
ENGs provide support, education, networking opportunities and community belonging for our employees. Our support of diversity and inclusion through our Diversity
Council and ENGs, taken together with other employee initiatives, such as tailored messaging, training and discussions on equality and belonging, support our efforts to
compete for and foster talent and inclusiveness in an ever-changing workforce.
In addition, we have several social initiatives in place that are focused on fostering a more diverse workforce, engaging with our communities and promoting the
health and well-being of our employees, tenants and residents. The Welltower Charitable Foundation (the "Foundation") financially supports charitable initiatives related
to aging, health care, the environment, education and the arts. We encourage our employees to give back to the community by matching their contributions and donating
their time to eligible charitable organizations. Funds are also allocated to each of our ENGs to make charitable contributions in support of their programming efforts.
Additionally, the Foundation facilitates presentations for charities to compete in the Give-WELL campaign. This campaign enables our employees to present and vote
for charities that will receive donations from the Foundation. During 2021, we sponsored our second annual Day of Giving so our employees could collaborate to make
an impact with local charitable organizations through volunteer opportunities. See Human Capital section below for additional information regarding employee
initiatives and programs.
7
Governance Our commitment to diversity starts at the top with a highly knowledgeable, skilled and diverse Board of Directors. As of December 31, 2021, our 11
Directors self-identified as follows:
Board Composition
Ethnicity Gender
Asian 9 % Male 64 %
Black or African American 18 % Female 36 %
Hispanic or Latino 18 % 100 %
White 55 %
100 %
Ten of our 11 Directors are independent and the independent Chair of our Board is held by a Black/African American male. Four or 36% of our five Board
committees are chaired by either a Female (2), Hispanic/Latino (1) or Black/African American (1) Director.
Additional information regarding our ESG programs and initiatives is available in our 2020 Environmental, Social and Governance Report (located on our website at
www.welltower.com). Information on our website, including our Environmental, Social and Governance Report or sections thereof, is not incorporated by reference into
this Annual Report.
Human Capital
Our employees are our greatest asset. As of December 31, 2021, we had 464 employees (443 located in United States, 13 in the United Kingdom, six in Canada and
two in Luxembourg). We are committed to the success of our people and the unique combination of skills and experiences they bring to achieving our mission.
Employee Engagement High employee engagement and satisfaction are critical to attracting and retaining top talent. During 2021, we conducted an employee
engagement survey through an independent third party, measuring our progress on important employee issues such as manager relationships, employee empowerment,
performance management and resources and support, and identifying opportunities for growth and improvement. Scores have been shared with all managers and action
plans to improve and prioritize focus areas are being put into place.
Employee Development Programs and Performance Management Development through the talent pipeline, recognizing and rewarding performance and providing
opportunities for continued growth are the cornerstones of our Human Capital strategy. We offer employees resources, trainings and tools designed to develop future
leaders, advance careers and attract and retain talent including but not limited to our robust early career programs, formal mentorship and coaching programs, manager
development training, skill development courses and education assistance. During 2021, we launched executive management coaching programs to equip leaders with
structured 360 feedback, customized development plans and guidance on company-wide succession planning. For our vice presidents, we partnered with a virtual
coaching platform that scales individual access to expert coaches, training opportunities and enables behavioral change through award-winning artificial intelligence.
For our senior vice presidents, we partnered with an independent advisory firm to provide one-on-one coaching, including an extensive 360 feedback process to focus
on maximizing their executive leadership potential.
Compensation and Benefits In addition to salary, our compensation and benefits programs include annual short term incentive bonuses, long-term incentive stock
awards, retirement plans, an employee stock purchase plan, healthcare and insurance benefits, health savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off, maternity
and caregiver leave, senior wellness leave, employee assistance programs, tuition assistance and health and wellness reimbursement programs, among many others.
With the assistance of independent third parties, we annually evaluate and benchmark the competitiveness of our compensation and benefits programs focusing on fair
pay practices that reward performance and support the needs of our employees.
Health, Safety and Wellness The success of our business is fundamentally connected to the safety and well-being of our employees, tenants, operators and managers,
and their residents and visitors, as the case may be. We provide our employees and their families with access to numerous innovative, flexible and convenient health and
wellness programs that support physical, mental and financial well-being. As we continued to navigate COVID-19 in 2021, we took a number of actions designed to
provide for the safety and well-being of our employees such as allowing remote and hybrid work, and flexible schedules where feasible, establishing office protocols for
employee safety, conducting training courses on COVID-19 prevention and encouraging COVID-19 vaccinations and boosters across our workforce through paid time
off in order to obtain vaccinations and boosters and manage side effects. Also during 2021, we increased internal communications across the organization through
podcasts, town hall meetings, team events (virtually and in person) and dedicated communication channels for the ENGs, resulting in more connectivity and
engagement. We continued to provide access to personal protective equipment, and enhanced cleaning and sanitation procedures.
Credit Concentrations  Please see Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements.
Geographic Concentrations  Please see “Item 2 – Properties” below and Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements.
8
Certain Government Regulations
United States
Health Law Matters — Generally
Typically, operators of seniors housing facilities do not receive significant funding from government programs and are largely subject to state laws, as opposed to
federal laws. Operators of long-term/post-acute care facilities and hospitals do receive significant funding from government programs, and these facilities are subject to
extensive regulation, including federal and state laws covering the type and quality of medical and/or nursing care provided, ancillary services (e.g., respiratory,
occupational, physical and infusion therapies), qualifications of the administrative personnel and nursing staff, the adequacy of the physical plant and equipment,
reimbursement and rate setting and operating policies. In addition, as described below, operators of these facilities are subject to extensive laws and regulations
pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including, but not limited to, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute (“AKS”), the federal Stark Law (“Stark Law”), and the federal
False Claims Act (“FCA”), as well as comparable state laws. Hospitals, physician group practice clinics, and other health care providers that operate in our portfolio are
subject to extensive federal, state, and local licensure, registration, certification, and inspection laws, regulations, and industry standards, as well as other conditions of
participation in federal and state government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Further, operators of long-term care facilities are required to have in place
compliance and ethics programs that meet the requirements of federal laws and regulations. Our tenants’ failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could
result in, among other things: loss of accreditation; denial of reimbursement; imposition of fines; suspension, decertification, or exclusion from federal and state health
care programs; loss of license; or closure of the facility. See risk factors “The requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such as Medicare
or Medicaid, could have a material adverse effect on our obligors’ liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect our obligors’
ability to meet their obligations to us” and “Our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and
inspection laws, regulations, and standards could adversely affect such operators’ or tenants’ operations, which could adversely affect our operators’ and tenants’ ability
to meet their obligations to us” in “Item 1A – Risk Factors” below. Moreover, in light of certain arrangements that Welltower may pursue with healthcare entities who
are directly subject to laws and regulations pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, and, given that certain of our arrangements are structured under the provisions of
the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007 ("RIDEA"), certain health care fraud and abuse laws and data privacy laws could apply directly to
Welltower. See risk factor "We assume operational and legal risks with respect to our properties managed in RIDEA structures that could have a material adverse effect
on our business results of operations, and financial condition" in "Item 1A - Risk Factors" below.
Licensing and Certification
The primary regulations that affect seniors housing facilities are state licensing and certification laws. For example, certain health care facilities are subject to a
variety of licensure and certificate of need (“CON”) laws and regulations. Where applicable, CON laws generally require, among other requirements, that a facility
demonstrate the need for (1) constructing a new facility, (2) adding beds or expanding an existing facility, (3) investing in major capital equipment or adding new
services, (4) changing the ownership or control of an existing licensed facility or (5) terminating services that have been previously approved through the CON
process. Certain state CON laws and regulations may restrict the ability of operators to add new properties or expand an existing facility’s size or services. In addition,
CON laws may constrain the ability of an operator to transfer responsibility for operating a particular facility to a new operator.
With respect to licensure, generally our long-term/post-acute care facilities are required to be licensed by the applicable state regulatory authority and certified for
participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. The failure of our operators to maintain or renew any required license or
regulatory approval as well as the failure of our operators to correct serious deficiencies identified in a compliance survey could require those operators to discontinue
operations at a property. In addition, if a property is found to be out of compliance with Medicare, Medicaid or other federal or state health care program conditions of
participation, the property operator may be excluded from participating in those government health care programs.
Reimbursement
The reimbursement methodologies applied to health care facilities continue to evolve. Federal and state authorities have considered and implemented and may
continue seeking to implement new or modified reimbursement methodologies, including value-based reimbursement methodologies that may negatively impact health
care property operations. Likewise, third-party payors may continue imposing greater controls on operators, including through changes in reimbursement rates and fee
structures. The impact of any such changes, if implemented, may result in a material adverse effect on our portfolio. No assurance can be given that current revenue
sources or levels will be maintained. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that payments under a government health care program are currently, or will be in the
future, sufficient to fully reimburse the property operators for their operating and capital expenses.
9
•Seniors Housing Facilities  The majority of the revenues received by the operators of U.S. seniors housing facilities are from private pay sources. The remaining
revenue source is primarily Medicaid provided under state waiver programs for home and community-based care. There can be no guarantee that a state Medicaid
program operating pursuant to a waiver will be able to maintain its waiver status. Rates paid by self-pay residents are set by the facilities and are determined by
local market conditions and operating costs. Generally, facilities receive a higher payment per day for a private pay resident than for a Medicaid beneficiary who
requires a comparable level of care. The level of Medicaid reimbursement varies from state to state. Thus, the revenues generated by operators of our assisted living
facilities may be adversely affected by payor mix, acuity level, or changes in Medicaid eligibility and reimbursement levels.
•Long-Term/Post-Acute Care Facilities  The majority of the revenues received by the operators of these facilities are from the Medicare and Medicaid programs,
with the balance representing reimbursement payments from private payors and patients. Consequently, changes in federal or state reimbursement policies may
adversely affect an operator’s ability to cover its expenses, including our rent or debt service. Long-term/post-acute care facilities are subject to periodic pre- and
post-payment reviews and other audits by federal and state authorities. A review or audit of a property operator’s claims could result in recoupments, denials or
delay of payments in the future. Due to the significant judgments and estimates inherent in payor settlement accounting, no assurance can be given as to the
adequacy of any reserves maintained by our property operators to cover potential adjustments to reimbursements or to cover settlements made to payors.
◦ Medicare Reimbursement Generally, long-term/post-acute care facilities are reimbursed by Medicare under prospective payment systems, which generally
provide reimbursement based upon a predetermined fixed amount per episode of care and are updated by CMS, an agency of the Department of Health and
Human Services (“HHS”) annually. There is a risk under these payment systems that costs will exceed the fixed payments, or that payments may be set below
the costs to provide certain items and services. Further, there is risk that Medicare Skilled Nursing Facility ("SNF") payment reforms may impact our tenants
and operators. In addition, the HHS Office of Inspector General has released recommendations to address SNF billing practices and Medicare payment rates. If
followed, these recommendations regarding SNF payment reform may impact our tenants and operators.
◦Medicaid Reimbursement  Many states reimburse SNFs using fixed daily rates, which are applied prospectively based on patient acuity and the historical costs
incurred in providing patient care. In most states, Medicaid does not fully reimburse the cost of providing services. Certain states are attempting to slow the rate
of Medicaid growth by freezing rates or restricting eligibility and benefits. In addition, Medicaid reimbursement rates may decline if state revenues in a
particular state are not sufficient to fund budgeted expenditures.
•Medicare Reimbursement for Physicians, Hospital Outpatient Departments (“HOPDs”), and Ambulatory Surgical Centers (“ASCs”) Changes in reimbursement to
physicians, HOPDs and ASCs may further affect our tenants and operators. Generally, Medicare reimburses physicians under the Physician Fee Schedule, while
HOPDs and ASCs are reimbursed under prospective payment systems. The Physician Fee Schedule and the HOPD and ASC prospective payment systems are
updated annually by CMS. These annual Medicare payment regulations have resulted in lower net pay increases than providers of those services have often
expected. In addition, the Medicare and Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2015 (“MACRA”) includes payment reductions for providers
who do not meet government quality standards. The implementation of pay-for-quality models like those required under MACRA has the potential to produce
funding disparities that could adversely impact some provider tenants in outpatient medical buildings and other health care properties. Changes in Medicare
Advantage plan payments may also indirectly affect our operators and tenants that contract with Medicare Advantage plans.
•Health Reform Laws  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the “Health
Reform Laws”) dramatically altered how health care is delivered and reimbursed in the U.S. and contained various provisions, including Medicaid expansion and
the establishment of Health Insurance Exchanges (“HIEs”) providing subsidized health insurance, that may directly impact us or the operators and tenants of our
properties. The status of the Health Reform Laws may be subject to change as a result of political, legislative, regulatory and administrative developments and
judicial proceedings. While there have been multiple attempts to repeal or amend the Health Reform Laws through legislative action and legal challenges,
legislative attempts to completely repeal the Health Reform Laws have been unsuccessful to date, and on June 17, 2021, the U.S. Supreme Court dismissed the
most recent judicial challenge to the Health Reform Laws brought by several states without specifically ruling on the constitutionality of the Health Reform Laws.
Nevertheless, the status of the Health Reform Laws may be subject to change and other health reform measures could be implemented as a result of political,
legislative, regulatory and administrative developments and judicial proceedings. Further, the impact that the Biden Administration or U.S. Congress may have on
health reform (including through new legislative, executive order, or regulatory efforts) remains uncertain, and any changes will likely take time to unfold and could
have an impact on coverage and reimbursement for health care items and services covered by plans that were authorized by the Health Reform Laws. We cannot
predict whether the existing Health Reform Laws, or future health care reform legislation, executive order, or regulatory changes, will have a material impact on our
operators’ or tenants’ property or business.
10
Fraud & Abuse Enforcement
Long-term/post-acute care facilities (and seniors housing facilities that receive Medicaid payments) are subject to federal, state, and local laws, regulations, and
applicable guidance that govern the operations and financial and other arrangements that may be entered into by health care providers. Certain of these laws, such as the
AKS and Stark Law, prohibit direct or indirect payments of any kind for the purpose of inducing or encouraging the referral of patients for medical products or services
reimbursable by government health care programs. Other government health program laws require providers to furnish only medically necessary services and submit to
the government valid and accurate statements for each service. Our operators and tenants that receive payments from federal health care programs, such as Medicare and
Medicaid, are subject to substantial financial penalties under the Civil Monetary Penalties Act and the FCA upon a finding of noncompliance with such laws. In
addition, states may also have separate false claims acts, which, among other things, generally prohibit health care providers from filing false claims or making false
statements to receive payments. Federal and state FCAs contain "whistleblower" provisions that permit private individuals to bring health care fraud enforcement claims
on behalf of the government. Still other laws require providers to comply with a variety of safety, health and other requirements relating to the condition of the licensed
property and the quality of care provided. Sanctions for violations of these laws, regulations and other applicable guidance may include, but are not limited to, criminal
and/or civil penalties and fines, loss of licensure, immediate termination of government payments, exclusion from any government health care program, damage
assessments and imprisonment. In certain circumstances, violation of these rules (such as those prohibiting abusive and fraudulent behavior) with respect to one
property may subject other facilities under common control or ownership to sanctions, including exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs,
as well as other government health care programs, and revocation of healthcare licenses. In the ordinary course of its business, a property operator is regularly subjected
to inquiries, investigations and audits by the federal and state agencies that oversee these laws and regulations.
Prosecutions, investigations or whistleblower actions could have a material adverse effect on a property operator’s liquidity, financial condition, and operations, which
could adversely affect the ability of the operator to meet its financial obligations to us. In addition, government investigations and enforcement actions brought against
the health care industry have increased dramatically over the past several years and are expected to continue. The costs for an operator of a health care property
associated with both defending such enforcement actions and the undertakings in settling these actions can be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on the
ability of an operator to meet its obligations to us. In addition, Welltower could potentially be directly subject to these health care fraud and abuse laws, as well as
potential investigation or enforcement, as a result of our RIDEA-structured arrangements, and certain collaboration or other arrangements we may pursue with
stakeholders who are directly subject to these laws.
Federal and State Data Privacy and Security Laws
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health
Act, and numerous other state and federal laws govern the collection, security, dissemination, use, access to and confidentiality of personal information, including
individually identifiable health information. Violations of these laws may result in substantial civil and/or criminal fines and penalties. The costs to a business such as
ours or to an operator of a health care property associated with developing and maintaining programs and systems to comply with data privacy and security laws,
defending against privacy and security related claims or enforcement actions and paying any assessed fines, can be substantial. Moreover, such costs could have a
material adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet its obligations to us. Finally, data privacy and security laws and regulations continue to develop, including
with regard to HIPAA and U.S. state privacy laws such as the California Consumer Privacy Act and the new California Privacy Rights Act, and other similar laws in
Colorado and Virginia that will go into effect in 2023. As we use data to better inform our investments and the efficacy of care in our communities, these developments
may add potential uncertainty and costs towards compliance obligations, business operations or transactions that depend on data. These new privacy laws may create
restrictions or requirements in our, our operators' and other business partners' use, sharing and securing of data. New privacy and security laws could require substantial
investment in resources to comply with regulatory changes as privacy and security laws proliferate in divergent ways or impose additional obligations, and potentially
create new privacy related legal risks.
United Kingdom
In the U.K., care home services are principally regulated by the Health and Social Care Act 2008 (as amended) and other regulations. This legislation subjects service
providers to a number of legally binding “Fundamental Standards” and requires, amongst other things, that all persons carrying out “Regulated Activities” in the U.K.,
and the managers of such persons, be registered. Providers of care home services are also subject (as data controllers) to laws governing their use of personal data
(including in relation to their employees, clients and recipients of their services). These laws currently take the form of the U.K.’s Data Protection Act 2018 and the U.K.
General Data Protection Regulation (collectively “U.K. DP Laws”). U.K. DP Laws impose a significant number of obligations on controllers with the potential for fines
of up to 4% of annual worldwide turnover or £17.5 million, whichever is greater. Further, to the extent that an entity established in the U.K. or any other jurisdiction
offers goods or services to individuals in the European Economic Area, that entity may also be subject to the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation ("E.U. GDPR").
Similarly, the E.U. GDPR imposes obligations on controllers with the
11
potential for fines of up to 4% of annual worldwide turnover or €20 million, whichever is greater. Entities incorporated in or carrying on a business in the U.K., as well
as individuals residing in the U.K., are also subject to the U.K. Bribery Act 2010. The U.K. has national minimum wage legislation with a maximum fine for non-
payment of £20,000 per worker and employers who fail to pay will be banned from being a company director for up to 15 years. In addition, there is a bill currently
going through the U.K. Parliament which will require a care home provider, where entering into a contract for the provision of healthcare or social care services with a
local public authority, to enter into mandatory contractual terms to provide the local public authority with evidence that it pays the national minimum wage to all of its
employees engaged in the provision of services for which the provider has contracted for (e.g., a national minimum wage record). Further, the Working Time and
Holiday Pay Bill 2019-2021 is currently going through the U.K. Parliament, which makes provision for the expiration of the Working Time Regulations 1998, provides
for additional regulations governing working time and makes provisions for holiday pay for employees.
Canada
Senior living residences in Canada are provincially regulated. Within each province, there are different categories for senior living residences that are generally based
on the level of care sought and/or required by a resident (e.g. assisted or retirement living, senior living residences, residential care, long-term care). In some of these
categories and depending on the province, residences may be government funded, or the individual residents may be eligible for a government subsidy, while other
residences are exclusively private-pay. The governing legislation and regulations vary by province, but generally the object of the laws is to set licensing requirements
and minimum standards for senior living residences, and regulate operations. These laws empower regulators in each province to take a variety of steps to ensure
compliance, conduct inspections, issue reports and generally regulate the industry.
Our operations in Canada are subject to privacy legislation, including, in certain provinces, privacy laws specifically related to personal health information. Although
the obligations of senior living residences in the various provinces differ, they all include the obligation to protect personal information. Under some of these laws,
notification to the regulator in the event of an actual or suspected privacy breach is mandatory. The powers of privacy regulators and penalties for violations of privacy
law vary according to the applicable law or are left to the courts. In September 2021, the province of Quebec adopted significant amendments to its privacy legislation,
including a new enforcement scheme with significant penalties and fines: up to CAD $10 million or 2% of global turnover (whichever is greater) for administrative
monetary penalties and up to CAD $25 million or 4% of global turnover for penal fines. The amendments will go into effect in three stages: (i) a few provisions on
September 22, 2022, (ii) most provisions on September 22, 2023 (including the new enforcement scheme), and (iii) one provision on September 23, 2024. Senior living
residences may also be subject to laws pertaining to residential tenancy, provincial and/or municipal laws applicable to fire safety, food services, zoning, occupational
health and safety, public health and the provision of community health care and funded long-term/post-acute care.
Taxation
The following summary of the taxation of the company and the material U.S. federal income tax consequences to the holders of our debt and equity securities is for
general information only and is not tax advice. This summary does not address all aspects of taxation that may be relevant to certain types of holders of stock or
securities (including, but not limited to, insurance companies, tax-exempt entities, financial institutions or broker-dealers, persons holding shares of common stock as
part of a hedging, integrated conversion, or constructive sale transaction or a straddle, traders in securities that use a mark-to-market method of accounting for their
securities, investors in pass-through entities and foreign corporations and persons who are not citizens or residents of the United States).
This summary does not discuss all of the aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that may be relevant to you in light of your particular investment or other
circumstances. In addition, this summary does not discuss any state or local income taxation or foreign income taxation or other foreign tax consequences. This
summary is based on current U.S. federal income tax laws. A discussion of the potential implications to the Company of the Tax Act is provided at the end of this
summary below. Subsequent developments in U.S. federal income tax law, including changes in law or differing interpretations, which may be applied retroactively,
could have a material effect on the U.S. federal income tax consequences of purchasing, owning and disposing of our securities as set forth in this summary. Before you
purchase our securities, you should consult your own tax advisor regarding the particular U.S. federal, state, local, foreign and other tax consequences of acquiring,
owning and selling our securities.
General
We elected to be taxed as a REIT commencing with our first taxable year. We intend to continue to operate in such a manner as to qualify as a REIT, but there is no
guarantee that we will qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for subsequent years. Qualification and taxation as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet a variety of
qualification tests imposed under U.S. federal income tax law with respect to our income, assets, distributions and share ownership, as discussed below under
“Qualification as a REIT.” There can be no assurance that we will qualify or remain qualified as a REIT.
12
In any year in which we qualify as a REIT, in general, we will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on that portion of our REIT taxable income or capital gain that
is distributed to stockholders. We may, however, be subject to tax at normal corporate rates on any taxable income or capital gain not distributed. If we elect to retain
and pay income tax on our net capital gain, stockholders would be taxed on their proportionate share of our undistributed net capital gain and would receive a refundable
credit for their share of any taxes paid by us on such gain.
Despite the REIT election, we may be subject to U.S. federal income and excise tax as follows:
•To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net capital gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our “REIT taxable income,” as adjusted, we will
be subject to tax on the undistributed amount at regular corporate tax rates;
•If we have net income from the sale or other disposition of “foreclosure property” that is held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business or
other non-qualifying income from foreclosure property, such income will be taxed at the highest corporate rate;
•Any net income from prohibited transactions (which are, in general, sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary
course of business, other than dispositions of foreclosure property) will be subject to a 100% tax;
•If we fail to satisfy either the 75% or 95% gross income tests (as discussed below), but nonetheless maintain our qualification as a REIT because certain other
requirements are met, we will be subject to a 100% tax on an amount equal to (1) the gross income attributable to the greater of (i) 75% of our gross income over
the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 75% gross income test (discussed below) or (ii) 95% of our gross income over the amount of
qualifying gross income for purposes of the 95% gross income test (discussed below) multiplied by (2) a fraction intended to reflect our profitability;
•If we fail to distribute during each year at least the sum of (1) 85% of our REIT ordinary income for the year, (2) 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for
such year (other than capital gain that we elect to retain and pay tax on) and (3) any undistributed taxable income from preceding periods, we will be subject to a
4% excise tax on the excess of such required distribution over amounts actually distributed; and
•We will be subject to a 100% tax on certain amounts from certain transactions involving our “taxable REIT subsidiaries” that are not conducted on an arm’s
length basis. See “Qualification as a REIT - Investments in Taxable REIT Subsidiaries.
If we acquire any assets from a corporation, which is or has been a “C” corporation, in a carryover basis transaction (including where a “C” corporation elects REIT
status), we could be liable for specified liabilities that are inherited from the “C” corporation. A “C” corporation is generally defined as a corporation that is required to
pay full corporate level U.S. federal income tax. If we recognize gain on the disposition of the assets during the five-year period beginning on the date on which the
assets were acquired by us, then, to the extent of the assets’ “built-in gain” (e.g., the excess of the fair market value of the asset over the adjusted tax basis of the asset, in
each case determined as of the beginning of the five-year period), we will be subject to tax on the gain at the highest regular corporate rate applicable. The results
described in this paragraph with respect to the recognition of built-in gain assume that the “C” corporation did not make and was not treated as making an election to
treat the built-in gain assets as sold to an unrelated party. For those properties that are subject to the built-in gains tax, the potential amount of built-in gains tax will be
an additional factor when considering a possible sale of the properties within the five-year period beginning on the date on which the properties were acquired by us.
See Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the built-in gains tax.
Qualification as a REIT
A REIT is defined as a corporation, trust or association:
(1) which is managed by one or more trustees or directors;
(2) the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced by transferable shares or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest;
(3) which would be taxable as a domestic corporation but for the U.S. federal income tax law relating to REITs;
(4) which is neither a financial institution nor an insurance company;
(5) the beneficial ownership of which is held by 100 or more persons in each taxable year of the REIT except for its first
    taxable year;
(6) not more than 50% in value of the outstanding stock of which is owned during the last half of each taxable year, excluding its first taxable year, directly,
indirectly or constructively, by or for five or fewer individuals (which includes certain entities) (the “Five or Fewer Requirement”); and
(7) which meets certain income and asset tests described below.
13
Conditions (1) to (4), inclusive, must be met during the entire taxable year and condition (5) must be met during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or
during a proportionate part of a taxable year of less than 12 months. For purposes of conditions (5) and (6), pension funds and certain other tax-exempt entities are
treated as individuals, subject to a “look-through” exception in the case of condition (6).
Based on publicly available information, we believe we have satisfied the share ownership requirements set forth in (5) and (6) above. In addition, Article VI of our
by-laws provides for restrictions regarding ownership and transfer of shares. These restrictions are intended to assist us in continuing to satisfy the share ownership
requirements described in (5) and (6) above but may not ensure that we will, in all cases, be able to satisfy such requirements.
We have complied with, and will continue to comply with, regulatory rules to send annual letters to certain of our stockholders requesting information regarding the
actual ownership of our stock. If, despite sending the annual letters, we do not know, or after exercising reasonable diligence would not have known, whether we failed
to meet the Five or Fewer Requirement, we will be treated as having met the Five or Fewer Requirement. If we fail to comply with these regulatory rules, we will be
subject to a monetary penalty. If our failure to comply were due to intentional disregard of the requirement, the penalty would be increased. However, if our failure to
comply were due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect, no penalty would be imposed.
We may own a number of properties through wholly owned subsidiaries. A corporation will qualify as a “qualified REIT subsidiary” if 100% of its stock is owned by
a REIT, and the REIT does not elect to treat the subsidiary as a taxable REIT subsidiary. A “qualified REIT subsidiary” will not be treated as a separate corporation for
U.S. federal income tax purposes, and all assets, liabilities and items of income, deductions and credits of a “qualified REIT subsidiary” will be treated as assets,
liabilities and items (as the case may be) of the REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A “qualified REIT subsidiary” is not subject to U.S. federal income tax, and
our ownership of the voting stock of a qualified REIT subsidiary will not violate the restrictions against ownership of securities of any one issuer which constitute more
than 10% of the value or total voting power of such issuer or more than 5% of the value of our total assets, as described below under “- Asset Tests.”
If we invest in an entity treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be deemed to own a proportionate share of the entity’s assets. Likewise,
we will be treated as receiving our share of the income and loss of the entity, and the gross income will retain the same character in our hands as it has in the hands of
the entity. These “look-through” rules apply for purposes of the income tests and assets tests described below.
The deduction of business interest is limited to 30% (50% in the case of taxable years beginning in 2019 or 2020) of adjusted taxable income, which may limit the
deductibility of interest expense by us, our taxable REIT subsidiaries, or our joint venture and partnership arrangements. A “real property trade or business” may
irrevocably elect out of the applicability of the limitation, but if it does so it must use the less favorable alternative depreciation system to depreciate real property used
in the trade or business. Regulations provide guidance on how to allocate interest deductions among multiple trades or businesses and contain special rules, including a
safe harbor, regarding the allocation of a REIT’s interest deductions to a “real property trade or business.”
Income Tests  There are two separate percentage tests relating to our sources of gross income that we must satisfy each taxable year:
•At least 75% of our gross income (excluding gross income from certain sales of property held primarily for sale) generally must be directly or indirectly derived
each taxable year from “rents from real property,” other income from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property or certain income from
qualified temporary investments.
•At least 95% of our gross income (excluding gross income from certain sales of property held primarily for sale) generally must be directly or indirectly derived
each taxable year from any of the sources qualifying for the 75% gross income test and from dividends (including dividends from taxable REIT subsidiaries) and
interest.
Income from hedging and foreign currency transactions is excluded from the 95% and 75% gross income tests if certain requirements are met but otherwise will
constitute gross income which does not qualify under the 95% or 75% gross income tests.
Rents received by us will qualify as “rents from real property” for purposes of satisfying the gross income tests for a REIT only if several conditions are met:
•The amount of rent must not be based in whole or in part on the income or profits of any person, although rents generally will not be excluded merely because
they are based on a fixed percentage or percentages of receipts or sales.
•Rents received from a tenant will not qualify as rents from real property if the REIT, or an owner of 10% or more of the REIT, also directly or constructively
owns 10% or more of the tenant, unless the tenant is our taxable REIT subsidiary and certain other requirements are met with respect to the real property being
rented.
•If rent attributable to personal property leased in connection with a lease of real property is greater than 15% of the total rent received under the lease, then the
portion of rent attributable to such personal property will not qualify as “rents from real property.”
14
•For rents to qualify as rents from real property, we generally must not furnish or render services to tenants, other than through a taxable REIT subsidiary or an
“independent contractor” from whom we derive no income, except that we may directly provide services that are usually or customarily rendered in the
geographic area in which the property is located in connection with the rental of real property for occupancy only or are not otherwise considered rendered to the
occupant for his convenience.
•We may lease “qualified health care properties” on an arm’s-length basis to a taxable REIT subsidiary if the property is operated on behalf of such subsidiary by a
person who qualifies as an “independent contractor” and who is, or is related to a person who is, actively engaged in the trade or business of operating health care
facilities for any person unrelated to us or our taxable REIT subsidiary (such person, an “eligible independent contractor”). If this is the case, the rent that the
REIT receives from the taxable REIT subsidiary generally will be treated as “rents from real property.” A “qualified health care property” includes any real
property and any personal property that is, or is necessary or incidental to the use of, a hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate care facility,
qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility that extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients and is operated by a provider of such
services that is eligible for participation in the Medicare program with respect to such facility.
A REIT is permitted to render a de minimis amount of impermissible services to tenants and still treat amounts received with respect to that property as rent from real
property. The amount received or accrued by the REIT during the taxable year for the impermissible services with respect to a property may not exceed 1% of all
amounts received or accrued by the REIT directly or indirectly from the property. The amount received for any service or management operation for this purpose shall
be deemed to be not less than 150% of the direct cost of the REIT in furnishing or rendering the service or providing the management or operation. Furthermore,
impermissible services may be furnished to tenants by a taxable REIT subsidiary subject to certain conditions, which would permit us to still treat rents received with
respect to the property as rent from real property.
The term “interest” generally does not include any amount if the determination of the amount depends in whole or in part on the income or profits of any person,
although an amount generally will not be excluded from the term “interest” solely by reason of being based on a fixed percentage of receipts or sales.
If we fail to satisfy one or both of the 75% or 95% gross income tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless qualify as a REIT for such year if we are eligible for
certain relief provisions provided by the Internal Revenue Code. These relief provisions generally will be available if (1) following our identification of the failure, we
file a schedule for such taxable year describing each item of our gross income, and (2) the failure to meet such tests was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful
neglect. It is not now possible to determine the circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions. If these relief provisions apply, a
100% tax is imposed on an amount equal to (1) the gross income attributable to (i) 75% of our gross income over the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of
the 75% income test and (ii) 95% of our gross income over the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 95% income test, multiplied by (2) a fraction
intended to reflect our profitability. The Secretary of the Treasury is given broad authority to determine whether particular items of income or gain qualify under the
75% and 95% gross income tests and to exclude items from the measure of gross income for such purposes.
Asset Tests  Within 30 days after the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must also satisfy several tests relating to the nature and diversification of our assets
determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. At least 75% of the value of our total assets must be represented by real estate assets (including
interests in real property, interests in mortgages on real property or on interests in real property, shares in other REITs and debt instruments issued by publicly offered
REITs), cash, cash items (including receivables arising in the ordinary course of our operation), government securities and qualified temporary investments. Although
the remaining 25% of our assets generally may be invested without restriction, we are prohibited from owning securities representing more than 10% of either the vote
(the “10% vote test”) or value (the “10% value test”) of the outstanding securities of any issuer other than a qualified REIT subsidiary, another REIT or a taxable REIT
subsidiary. Further, no more than 20% of our total assets may be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries (the “20% asset test”) and no more
than 5% of the value of our total assets may be represented by securities of any non-governmental issuer other than a qualified REIT subsidiary (the “5% asset test”),
another REIT or a taxable REIT subsidiary. Each of the 10% vote test, the 10% value test and the 20% and 5% asset tests must be satisfied at the end of each quarter.
There are special rules which provide relief if the value-related tests are not satisfied due to changes in the value of the assets of a REIT.
Certain items are excluded from the 10% value test, including: (1) straight debt securities meeting certain requirements; (2) any loan to an individual or an estate;
(3) any rental agreement described in Section 467 of the Internal Revenue Code, other than with a “related person”; (4) any obligation to pay rents from real property;
(5) certain securities issued by a state or any subdivision thereof, the District of Columbia, a foreign government, or any political subdivision thereof, or the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; (6) any security issued by a REIT; and (7) any other arrangement that, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, is excepted from
the definition of security (“excluded securities”). If a REIT, or its taxable REIT subsidiary, holds (1) straight debt securities of a corporate or partnership issuer and (2)
securities of such issuer that are not excluded securities and
15
have an aggregate value greater than 1% of such issuer’s outstanding securities, the straight debt securities will be included in the 10% value test.
A REIT’s interest as a partner in a partnership is not treated as a security for purposes of applying the 10% value test to securities issued by the partnership. Further,
any debt instrument issued by a partnership that is not an excluded security will not be a security for purposes of applying the 10% value test (1) to the extent of the
REIT’s interest as a partner in the partnership or (2) if at least 75% of the partnership’s gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) would
qualify for the 75% gross income test. For purposes of the 10% value test, a REIT’s interest in a partnership’s assets is determined by the REIT’s proportionate interest
in any securities issued by the partnership (other than the excluded securities described in the preceding paragraph).
If a REIT or its “qualified business unit” uses a foreign currency as its functional currency, the term “cash” includes such foreign currency, but only to the extent such
foreign currency is (i) held for use in the normal course of the activities of the REIT or “qualified business unit” which give rise to items of income or gain that are
included in the 95% and 75% gross income tests or are directly related to acquiring or holding assets qualifying under the 75% asset test, and (ii) not held in connection
with dealing or engaging in substantial and regular trading in securities.
With respect to corrections of failures as to violations of the 10% vote test, the 10% value test or the 5% asset test, a REIT may avoid disqualification as a REIT by
disposing of sufficient assets to cure a violation due to the ownership of assets that do not exceed the lesser of 1% of the REIT’s assets at the end of the relevant quarter
or $10,000,000, provided that the disposition occurs within six months following the last day of the quarter in which the REIT first identified the assets. For violations
of any of the REIT asset tests due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect that exceed the thresholds described in the preceding sentence, a REIT can avoid
disqualification as a REIT after the close of a taxable quarter by taking certain steps, including disposition of sufficient assets within the six month period described
above to meet the applicable asset test, paying a tax equal to the greater of $50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net income generated by the non-
qualifying assets during the period of time that the assets were held as non-qualifying assets and filing a schedule with the Internal Revenue Service that describes the
non-qualifying assets.
Investments in Taxable REIT Subsidiaries  REITs may own more than 10% of the voting power and value of securities in taxable REIT subsidiaries. Unlike a qualified
REIT subsidiary, other disregarded entity or partnership, the income and assets of a taxable REIT subsidiary are not attributable to the REIT for purposes of satisfying
the income and asset ownership requirements applicable to REIT qualification. We and any taxable corporate entity in which we own an interest are allowed to jointly
elect to treat such entity as a “taxable REIT subsidiary.”
Certain of our subsidiaries have elected taxable REIT subsidiary status. Taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to full corporate level U.S. federal taxation on their
earnings but are permitted to engage in certain types of activities that cannot be performed directly by REITs without jeopardizing their REIT status. Our taxable REIT
subsidiaries will attempt to minimize the amount of these taxes, but there can be no assurance whether or the extent to which measures taken to minimize taxes will be
successful. To the extent our taxable REIT subsidiaries are required to pay U.S. federal, state or local taxes, the cash available for distribution as dividends to us from
our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be reduced.
The Internal Revenue Service may redetermine amounts from transactions between a REIT and its taxable REIT subsidiary where there is a lack of arm’s-length
dealing between the parties. Any taxable income allocated to, or deductible expenses allocated away, from a taxable REIT subsidiary would increase its tax liability.
Further, certain amounts from certain transactions involving a REIT and its taxable REIT subsidiaries could be subject to a 100% tax if not conducted on an arm’s length
basis. Additional taxable REIT subsidiary elections may be made in the future for additional entities in which we obtain an interest.
Annual Distribution Requirements  In order to avoid being taxed as a regular corporation, we are required to make distributions (other than capital gain distributions)
to our stockholders which qualify for the dividends paid deduction in an amount at least equal to (1) the sum of (i) 90% of our “REIT taxable income” (computed
without regard to the dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain) and (ii) 90% of the after-tax net income, if any, from foreclosure property, minus (2) a portion of
certain items of non-cash income. These distributions must be paid in the taxable year to which they relate, or in the following taxable year if declared before we timely
file our tax return for that year and if paid on or before the first regular distribution payment after such declaration. Prior to 2014, with respect to all REITs the amount
distributed could not be preferential. This means that every stockholder of the class of stock to which a distribution is made must be treated the same as every other
stockholder of that class, and no class of stock may be treated otherwise than in accordance with its dividend rights as a class (the “preferential dividend rule”).
Beginning in tax years after 2014, the preferential dividend rule no longer applies to publicly offered REITs, however, the rule is still applicable to other entities taxed as
REITs, which would include several of our subsidiaries. To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net capital gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%,
of our “REIT taxable income,” as adjusted, we will be subject to tax on the undistributed amount at regular corporate tax rates. As discussed above, we may be subject
to an excise tax if we fail to meet certain other distribution requirements. We believe we have satisfied the annual distribution requirements for the year of our initial
REIT election and each year thereafter through the
16
year ended December 31, 2021. Although we intend to make timely distributions sufficient to satisfy these annual distribution requirements for subsequent years,
economic, market, legal, tax or other factors could limit our ability to meet those requirements. See “Item 1A - Risk Factors.”
It is also possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement, or to distribute such greater
amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, due to, among other things, (1) timing differences between (i) the actual receipt of income and actual
payment of deductible expenses and (ii) the inclusion of income and deduction of expenses in arriving at our taxable income, or (2) the payment of severance benefits
that may not be deductible to us. In the event that timing differences occur, we may find it necessary to arrange for borrowings or, if possible, pay dividends in the form
of taxable stock dividends in order to meet the distribution requirement.
Under certain circumstances, including in the event of a deficiency determined by the Internal Revenue Service, we may be able to rectify a resulting failure to meet
the distribution requirement for a year by paying “deficiency dividends” to stockholders in a later year, which may be included in our deduction for distributions paid for
the earlier year. Thus, we may be able to avoid being disqualified as a REIT and/or taxed on amounts distributed as deficiency dividends; however, we will be required
to pay applicable penalties and interest based upon the amount of any deduction taken for deficiency dividend distributions.
Failure to Qualify as a REIT
If we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates.
Distributions to stockholders in any year in which we fail to qualify as a REIT will not be deductible nor will any particular amount of distributions be required to be
made in any year. All distributions to stockholders will be taxable as dividends to the extent of current and accumulated earnings and profits allocable to these
distributions and, subject to certain limitations, will be eligible for the dividends received deduction for corporate stockholders. Unless entitled to relief under specific
statutory provisions, we also will be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. It is not
possible to state whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to statutory relief. Failure to qualify for even one year could result in our need to incur indebtedness
or liquidate investments in order to pay potentially significant resulting tax liabilities.
In addition to the relief described above under “Income Tests” and “Asset Tests,” relief is available in the event that we violate a provision of the Internal Revenue
Code that would result in our failure to qualify as a REIT if: (1) the violation is due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect; (2) we pay a penalty of $50,000
for each failure to satisfy the provision; and (3) the violation does not include a violation described under “Income Tests” or “Asset Tests” above. It is not now possible
to determine the circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions.
U.S. Federal Income Taxation of Holders of Our Stock
Treatment of Taxable U.S. Stockholders  The following summary applies to you only if you are a “U.S. stockholder.” A “U.S. stockholder” is a holder of shares of
stock who, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, is:
•a citizen or resident of the United States;
•an entity classified as a corporation or partnership, created or organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any political subdivision of the United
States, including any state;
•an estate, the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source; or
•a trust, if, in general, a U.S. court is able to exercise primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one or more U.S. persons, within the meaning of the
Internal Revenue Code, has the authority to control all of the trust’s substantial decisions.
So long as we qualify for taxation as a REIT, distributions on shares of our stock made out of the current or accumulated earnings and profits allocable to these
distributions (and not designated as capital gain dividends) will be taxable as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes. None of these distributions will be eligible
for the dividends received deduction for U.S. corporate stockholders.
Generally, the current maximum marginal rate of tax payable by individuals on dividends received from corporations that are subject to a corporate level of tax is
20%. Except in limited circumstances, this tax rate will not apply to dividends paid to you by us on our shares, because generally we are not subject to U.S. federal
income tax on the portion of our REIT taxable income or capital gains distributed to our stockholders. The reduced maximum U.S. federal income tax rate will apply to
that portion, if any, of dividends received by you with respect to our shares that are attributable to: (1) dividends received by us from non-REIT corporations or other
taxable REIT subsidiaries; (2) income from the prior year with respect to which we were required to pay U.S. federal corporate income tax during the prior year (if, for
example, we did not distribute 100% of our REIT taxable income for the prior year); or (3) the amount of any earnings and profits distributed by us and accumulated in
a non-REIT year.
Although the preferential 20% rate on qualified dividends is generally not applicable to dividends to our shareholders, the Internal Revenue Code provides for a
deduction from income for individuals, trusts and estates for 20% of taxable REIT
17
dividends not eligible for the preferential rate, excluding capital gain dividends. This deduction is not taken into account for purposes of determining the 3.8% tax on net
investment income (described below) and, unlike the preferential rate, expires after 2025.
Distributions that are designated as capital gain dividends will be taxed as long-term capital gains (to the extent they do not exceed our actual net capital gain for the
taxable year), without regard to the period for which you held our stock. However, if you are a corporation, you may be required to treat a portion of some capital gain
dividends as ordinary income.
If we elect to retain and pay income tax on any net capital gain and designate such amount in a timely notice to you, you would include in income, as long-term
capital gain, your proportionate share of this net capital gain. You would also receive a refundable tax credit for your proportionate share of the tax paid by us on such
retained capital gains, and you would have an increase in the basis of your shares of our stock in an amount equal to your includable capital gains less your share of the
tax deemed paid.
You may not include in your U.S. federal income tax return any of our net operating losses or capital losses. U.S. federal income tax rules may also require that
certain minimum tax adjustments and preferences be apportioned to you. In addition, any distribution declared by us in October, November or December of any year on
a specified date in any such month shall be treated as both paid by us and received by you on December 31 of that year, provided that the distribution is actually paid by
us no later than January 31 of the following year.
We will be treated as having sufficient earnings and profits to treat as a dividend any distribution up to the amount required to be distributed in order to avoid
imposition of the 4% excise tax discussed under “General” and “Qualification as a REIT - Annual Distribution Requirements” above. As a result, you may be required
to treat as taxable dividends certain distributions that would otherwise result in a tax-free return of capital. Moreover, any “deficiency dividend” will be treated as a
dividend (an ordinary dividend or a capital gain dividend, as the case may be), regardless of our earnings and profits. Any other distributions in excess of current or
accumulated earnings and profits will generally not be taxable to you to the extent these distributions do not exceed the adjusted tax basis of your shares of our stock.
You will be required to reduce the tax basis of your shares of our stock by the amount of these distributions until the basis has been reduced to zero, after which these
distributions will be taxable as capital gain, if the shares of our stock are held as capital assets. The tax basis as so reduced will be used in computing the capital gain or
loss, if any, realized upon the sale of the shares of our stock. Any loss upon a sale or exchange of shares of our stock which were held for six months or less (after
application of certain holding period rules) will generally be treated as a long-term capital loss to the extent you previously received capital gain distributions with
respect to these shares of our stock.
Upon the sale or exchange of any shares of our stock to or with a person other than us or a sale or exchange of all shares of our stock (whether actually or
constructively owned) with us, you will generally recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized on the sale or exchange and your adjusted
tax basis in these shares of our stock. This gain or loss will be capital gain or loss if you held these shares of our stock as a capital asset.
If we redeem any of your shares in us, the treatment can only be determined on the basis of particular facts at the time of redemption. In general, you will recognize
gain or loss (as opposed to dividend income) equal to the difference between the amount received by you in the redemption and your adjusted tax basis in your shares
redeemed if such redemption: (1) results in a “complete termination” of your interest in all classes of our equity securities; (2) is a “substantially disproportionate
redemption”; or (3) is “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” with respect to you. In applying these tests, you must take into account your ownership of all classes of
our equity securities (e.g., common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants). You also must take into account any equity securities that are considered to
be constructively owned by you.
If, as a result of a redemption by us of your shares, you no longer own (either actually or constructively) any of our equity securities or only own (actually and
constructively) an insubstantial percentage of our equity securities, then it is probable that the redemption of your shares would be considered “not essentially equivalent
to a dividend” and, thus, would result in gain or loss to you. However, whether a distribution is “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” depends on all of the facts and
circumstances, and if you rely on any of these tests at the time of redemption, you should consult your tax advisor to determine their application to the particular
situation.
Generally, if the redemption does not meet the tests described above, then the proceeds received by you from the redemption of your shares will be treated as a
distribution taxable as a dividend to the extent of the allocable portion of current or accumulated earnings and profits. If the redemption is taxed as a dividend, your
adjusted tax basis in the redeemed shares will be transferred to any other shareholdings in us that you own. If you own no other shareholdings in us, under certain
circumstances, such basis may be transferred to a related person, or it may be lost entirely.
Gain from the sale or exchange of our shares held for more than one year is generally taxed at a maximum long-term capital gain rate of 20% in the case of
stockholders who are individuals and 21% in the case of stockholders that are corporations. Pursuant to Internal Revenue Service guidance, we may classify portions of
our capital gain dividends as eligible for specific treatment provided under the Internal Revenue Code, which, depending on the nature of the capital gains, may result in
taxation of such portions at rates of either 20% or 25%. Capital losses recognized by a stockholder upon the disposition of our shares
18
held for more than one year at the time of disposition will be considered long-term capital losses. The deduction for capital losses is subject to limitations.
An additional tax of 3.8% generally will be imposed on the “net investment income” of U.S. stockholders who meet certain requirements and are individuals, estates
or certain trusts. Among other items, “net investment income” generally includes gross income from dividends and net gain attributable to the disposition of certain
property, such as shares of our common stock or warrants. In the case of individuals, this tax will only apply to the extent such individual’s modified adjusted gross
income exceeds $200,000 ($250,000 for married couples filing a joint return and surviving spouses, and $125,000 for married individuals filing a separate return). U.S.
stockholders should consult their tax advisors regarding the possible applicability of this additional tax in their particular circumstances.
Treatment of Tax-Exempt U.S. Stockholders  Tax-exempt entities, including qualified employee pension and profit sharing trusts and individual retirement accounts
(“Exempt Organizations”), generally are exempt from U.S. federal income taxation. However, they are subject to taxation on their unrelated business taxable income
(“UBTI”). The Internal Revenue Service has issued a published revenue ruling that dividend distributions from a REIT to an exempt employee pension trust do not
constitute UBTI, provided that the shares of the REIT are not otherwise used in an unrelated trade or business of the exempt employee pension trust. Based on this
ruling, amounts distributed by us to Exempt Organizations generally should not constitute UBTI. However, if an Exempt Organization finances its acquisition of the
shares of our stock with debt, a portion of its income from us will constitute UBTI pursuant to the “debt financed property” rules. Likewise, a portion of the Exempt
Organization’s income from us would constitute UBTI if we held a residual interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit. A tax-exempt U.S. stockholder that is
subject to tax on its UBTI will be required to segregate its taxable income and loss for each unrelated trade or business activity for purposes of determining its UBTI.
Backup Withholding and Information Reporting Under certain circumstances, you may be subject to backup withholding at applicable rates on payments made with
respect to, or cash proceeds of a sale or exchange of, shares of our stock. Backup withholding will apply only if you: (1) fail to provide a correct taxpayer identification
number, which if you are an individual, is ordinarily your social security number; (2) furnish an incorrect taxpayer identification number; (3) are notified by the Internal
Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments of interest or dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under penalties of perjury, that you have furnished a
correct taxpayer identification number and that the Internal Revenue Service has not notified you that you are subject to backup withholding.
Backup withholding will not apply with respect to payments made to certain exempt recipients, such as corporations and tax-exempt organizations. You should
consult with a tax advisor regarding qualification for exemption from backup withholding, and the procedure for obtaining an exemption. Backup withholding is not an
additional tax. Rather, the amount of any backup withholding with respect to a payment to a stockholder will be allowed as a credit against such stockholder’s U.S.
federal income tax liability and may entitle such stockholder to a refund, provided that the required information is provided to the Internal Revenue Service.
Taxation of Foreign Stockholders  The following summary applies to you only if you are a foreign person. A “foreign person” is a holder of shares of stock who, for
U.S. federal income tax purposes, is not a U.S. stockholder. The U.S. federal taxation of foreign persons is a highly complex matter that may be affected by many
considerations.
Except as discussed below, distributions to you of cash generated by our real estate operations in the form of ordinary dividends, but not by the sale or exchange of
our capital assets, generally will be subject to U.S. withholding tax at a rate of 30%, unless an applicable tax treaty reduces that tax and you file with us the required
form evidencing the lower rate.
In general, you will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on a graduated rate basis rather than withholding with respect to your investment in our stock if such
investment is “effectively connected” with your conduct of a trade or business in the United States. A corporate foreign stockholder that receives income that is, or is
treated as, effectively connected with a United States trade or business may also be subject to the branch profits tax, which is payable in addition to regular United States
corporate income tax. The following discussion will apply to foreign stockholders whose investment in us is not so effectively connected. We expect to withhold United
States income tax, as described below, on the gross amount of any distributions paid to you unless (1) you file an Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI with us
claiming that the distribution is “effectively connected” or (2) certain other exceptions apply.
Distributions by us that are attributable to gain from the sale or exchange of a United States real property interest will be taxed to you under the Foreign Investment in
Real Property Tax Act of 1980 (“FIRPTA”) as if these distributions were gains “effectively connected” with a United States trade or business. Accordingly, you will be
taxed at the normal capital gain rates applicable to a U.S. stockholder on these amounts, subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax and a special alternative
minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals. Distributions subject to FIRPTA may also be subject to a branch profits tax in the hands of a corporate foreign
stockholder that is not entitled to treaty exemption. We will be required to withhold tax at a rate of 21% from distributions subject to FIRPTA. We will be required to
withhold from distributions subject to FIRPTA, and remit to the Internal Revenue Service, 21% of designated capital gain dividends, or, if greater, 21% of the amount of
any distributions that could be designated as capital gain dividends. In addition, if we designate prior distributions as
19
capital gain dividends, subsequent distributions, up to the amount of the prior distributions not withheld against, will be treated as capital gain dividends for purposes of
withholding.
Any capital gain dividend with respect to any class of stock that is “regularly traded” on an established securities market will be treated as an ordinary dividend if the
foreign stockholder did not own more than 10% of such class of stock at any time during the taxable year. Foreign stockholders generally will not be required to report
distributions received from us on U.S. federal income tax returns and all distributions received by such stockholders treated as dividends for U.S. federal income tax
purposes (including any such capital gain dividends) will be subject to a 30% U.S. withholding tax (unless reduced under an applicable income tax treaty) as discussed
above. In addition, the branch profits tax will not apply to such distributions.
Unless our shares constitute a “United States real property interest” within the meaning of FIRPTA or are effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business, a sale of
our shares by you generally will not be subject to United States taxation. Even if our shares were to constitute a “United States real property interest,” non-U.S.
stockholders that are “qualified foreign pension funds” (or are owned by a qualified foreign pension fund) meeting certain requirements may be exempt from FIRPTA
withholding on the sale or disposition of our shares. Our shares will not constitute a United States real property interest if we qualify as a “domestically controlled
REIT.” We believe that we qualify as and expect to continue to qualify as a domestically controlled REIT. A domestically controlled REIT is a REIT in which at all
times during a specified testing period less than 50% in value of its shares is held directly or indirectly by foreign stockholders. Generally, we are permitted to assume
that holders of less than 5% of our shares at all times during a specified testing period are U.S. persons. However, if you are a nonresident alien individual who is
present in the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year and certain other conditions apply, you will be subject to a 30% tax on such capital gains. In
any event, a purchaser of our shares from you will not be required under FIRPTA to withhold on the purchase price if the purchased shares are “regularly traded” on an
established securities market or if we are a domestically controlled REIT. Otherwise, under FIRPTA, the purchaser may be required to withhold 15% of the purchase
price and remit such amount to the Internal Revenue Service.
Backup withholding tax and information reporting will generally not apply to distributions paid to you outside the United States that are treated as: (1) dividends to
which the 30% or lower treaty rate withholding tax discussed above applies; (2) capital gains dividends; or (3) distributions attributable to gain from the sale or
exchange by us of U.S. real property interests. Payment of the proceeds of a sale of stock within the United States or conducted through certain U.S. related financial
intermediaries is subject to both backup withholding and information reporting unless the beneficial owner certifies under penalties of perjury that he or she is not a
U.S. person (and the payor does not have actual knowledge that the beneficial owner is a U.S. person) or otherwise establishes an exemption. You may obtain a refund
of any amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules by filing the appropriate claim for refund with the Internal Revenue Service.
Withholding tax at a rate of 30% will be imposed on certain payments to you or certain foreign financial institutions (including investment funds) and other non-US
persons receiving payments on your behalf, including distributions in respect of shares of our stock, if you or such institutions fail to comply with certain due diligence,
disclosure and reporting rules, as set forth in Treasury regulations. Accordingly, the entity through which shares of our stock are held will affect the determination of
whether such withholding is required. Stockholders that are otherwise eligible for an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. withholding taxes with respect to such
dividends will be required to seek a refund from the Internal Revenue Service to obtain the benefit of such exemption or reduction. Additional requirements and
conditions may be imposed pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement, if and when entered into, between the United States and such institution’s home jurisdiction.
We will not pay any additional amounts to any stockholders in respect of any amounts withheld. You are encouraged to consult with your tax advisor regarding U.S.
withholding taxes and the application of Treasury regulations in light of your particular circumstances.
U.S. Federal Income Taxation of Holders of Depositary Shares
Owners of our depositary shares will be treated as if you were owners of the series of preferred stock represented by the depositary shares. Thus, you will be required
to take into account the income and deductions to which you would be entitled if you were a holder of the underlying series of preferred stock.
Conversion or Exchange of Shares for Preferred Stock  No gain or loss will be recognized upon the withdrawal of preferred stock in exchange for depositary shares
and the tax basis of each share of preferred stock will, upon exchange, be the same as the aggregate tax basis of the depositary shares exchanged. If you held your
depositary shares as a capital asset at the time of the exchange for shares of preferred stock, the holding period for your shares of preferred stock will include the period
during which you owned the depositary shares.
U.S. Federal Income and Estate Taxation of Holders of Our Debt Securities
The following is a general summary of the U.S. federal income tax consequences and, in the case that you are a holder that is a non-U.S. holder, as defined below, the
U.S. federal estate tax consequences, of purchasing, owning and disposing of debt securities periodically offered under one or more indentures (the “notes”). This
summary assumes that you hold the notes as capital assets. This summary applies to you only if you are the initial holder of the notes and you acquire the notes for a
price
20
equal to the issue price of the notes. The issue price of the notes is the first price at which a substantial amount of the notes is sold other than to bond houses, brokers or
similar persons or organizations acting in the capacity of underwriters, placement agents or wholesalers. In addition, this summary does not consider any foreign, state,
local or other tax laws that may be applicable to us or a purchaser of the notes.
U.S. Holders
The following summary applies to you only if you are a U.S. holder, as defined below.
Definition of a U.S. Holder  A “U.S. holder” is a beneficial owner of a note or notes that is for U.S. federal income tax purposes:
•a citizen or resident of the United States;
•a corporation, partnership or other entity classified as a corporation or partnership for these purposes, created or organized in or under the laws of the United
States or of any political subdivision of the United States, including any state;
•an estate, the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source; or
•a trust, if, in general, a U.S. court is able to exercise primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one or more U.S. persons, within the meaning of the
Internal Revenue Code, has the authority to control all of the trust’s substantial decisions.
Payments of Interest  Stated interest on the notes generally will be taxed as ordinary interest income from domestic sources at the time it is paid or accrues in
accordance with your method of accounting for tax purposes.
Sale, Exchange or Other Disposition of Notes  The adjusted tax basis in your note will generally be your cost. You generally will recognize taxable gain or loss when
you sell or otherwise dispose of your notes equal to the difference, if any, between:
•the amount realized on the sale or other disposition, less any amount attributable to any accrued interest, which will be taxable in the manner described under
“Payments of Interest” above; and
•your adjusted tax basis in the notes.
Your gain or loss generally will be capital gain or loss. This capital gain or loss will be long-term capital gain or loss if at the time of the sale or other disposition you
have held the notes for more than one year. Subject to limited exceptions, your capital losses cannot be used to offset your ordinary income (except in the case of
individuals, who may offset up to $3,000 of ordinary income each year).
Backup Withholding and Information Reporting  In general, “backup withholding” may apply to any payments made to you of principal and interest on your note, and
to the payment of the proceeds of a sale or other disposition of your note before maturity, if you are a non-corporate U.S. holder and: (1) fail to provide a correct
taxpayer identification number, which if you are an individual, is ordinarily your social security number; (2) furnish an incorrect taxpayer identification number; (3) are
notified by the Internal Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments of interest or dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under penalties of perjury, that
you have furnished a correct taxpayer identification number and that the Internal Revenue Service has not notified you that you are subject to backup withholding.
The amount of any reportable payments, including interest, made to you (unless you are an exempt recipient) and the amount of tax withheld, if any, with respect to
such payments will be reported to you and to the Internal Revenue Service for each calendar year. You should consult your tax advisor regarding your qualification for
an exemption from backup withholding and the procedures for obtaining such an exemption, if applicable. The backup withholding tax is not an additional tax and will
be credited against your U.S. federal income tax liability, provided that correct information is provided to the Internal Revenue Service.
Non-U.S. Holders
The following summary applies to you if you are a beneficial owner of a note and are not a U.S. holder, as defined above (a “non-U.S. holder”).
Special rules may apply to certain non-U.S. holders such as “controlled foreign corporations,” “passive foreign investment companies” and “foreign personal holding
companies.” Such entities are encouraged to consult their tax advisors to determine the U.S. federal, state, local and other tax consequences that may be relevant to
them.
U.S. Federal Withholding Tax  Subject to the discussion below, U.S. federal withholding tax will not apply to payments by us or our paying agent, in its capacity as
such, of principal and interest on your notes under the “portfolio interest” exception of the Internal Revenue Code, provided that:
21
•you do not, directly or indirectly, actually or constructively, own 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of our stock entitled to vote;
•you are not (1) a controlled foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is related, directly or indirectly, to us through sufficient stock
ownership, as provided in the Internal Revenue Code, or (2) a bank receiving interest described in Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code;
•such interest is not effectively connected with your conduct of a U.S. trade or business; and
•you provide a signed written statement, under penalties of perjury, which can reliably be related to you, certifying that you are not a U.S. person within the
meaning of the Internal Revenue Code and providing your name and address to us or our paying agent; or
•a securities clearing organization, bank or other financial institution that holds customers’ securities in the ordinary course of its trade or business and holds your
notes on your behalf and that certifies to us or our paying agent under penalties of perjury that it, or the bank or financial institution between it and you, has
received from you your signed, written statement and provides us or our paying agent with a copy of such statement.
Treasury regulations provide that:
•if you are a foreign partnership, the certification requirement will generally apply to your partners, and you will be required to provide certain information;
•if you are a foreign trust, the certification requirement will generally be applied to you or your beneficial owners depending on whether you are a “foreign
complex trust,” “foreign simple trust,” or “foreign grantor trust” as defined in the Treasury regulations; and
•look-through rules will apply for tiered partnerships, foreign simple trusts and foreign grantor trusts.
If you are a foreign partnership or a foreign trust, you should consult your own tax advisor regarding your status under these Treasury regulations and the certification
requirements applicable to you.
If you cannot satisfy the portfolio interest requirements described above, payments of interest will be subject to the 30% United States withholding tax, unless you
provide us with a properly executed (1) Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming an exemption from or reduction in withholding under the benefit of an
applicable treaty or (2) Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI stating that interest paid on the note is not subject to withholding tax because it is effectively connected
with your conduct of a trade or business in the United States. Alternative documentation may be applicable in certain circumstances.
If you are engaged in a trade or business in the United States and interest on a note is effectively connected with the conduct of that trade or business, you will be
required to pay U.S. federal income tax on that interest on a net income basis (although you will be exempt from the 30% withholding tax provided the certification
requirement described above is met) in the same manner as if you were a U.S. person, except as otherwise provided by an applicable tax treaty. If you are a foreign
corporation, you may be required to pay a branch profits tax on the earnings and profits that are effectively connected to the conduct of your trade or business in the
United States.
Withholding tax at a rate of 30% will be imposed on payments of interest (including original issue discount) to you or certain foreign financial institutions (including
investment funds) and other non-US persons receiving payments on your behalf if you or such institutions fail to comply with certain due diligence, disclosure and
reporting rules, as set forth in Treasury regulations. We will not pay any additional amounts to any holders of our debt instruments in respect of any amounts withheld.
You are encouraged to consult with your tax advisor regarding U.S. withholding taxes and the application of the relevant Treasury regulations in light of your particular
circumstances.
Sale, Exchange or other Disposition of Notes  You generally will not have to pay U.S. federal income tax on any gain or income realized from the sale, redemption,
retirement at maturity or other disposition of your notes, unless:
•in the case of gain, you are an individual who is present in the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year of the sale or other disposition of your
notes, and specific other conditions are met;
•you are subject to tax provisions applicable to certain United States expatriates; or
•the gain is effectively connected with your conduct of a U.S. trade or business.
If you are engaged in a trade or business in the United States, and gain with respect to your notes is effectively connected with the conduct of that trade or business,
you generally will be subject to U.S. income tax on a net basis on the gain. In addition, if you are a foreign corporation, you may be subject to a branch profits tax on
your effectively connected earnings and profits for the taxable year, as adjusted for certain items.
22
U.S. Federal Estate Tax.  If you are an individual and are not a U.S. citizen or a resident of the United States, as specially defined for U.S. federal estate tax purposes,
at the time of your death, your notes will generally not be subject to the U.S. federal estate tax, unless, at the time of your death (1) you owned actually or constructively
10% or more of the total combined voting power of all our classes of stock entitled to vote, or (2) interest on the notes is effectively connected with your conduct of a
U.S. trade or business.
Backup Withholding and Information Reporting  Backup withholding will not apply to payments of principal or interest made by us or our paying agent, in its
capacity as such, to you if you have provided the required certification that you are a non-U.S. holder as described in “U.S. Federal Withholding Tax” above, and
provided that neither we nor our paying agent have actual knowledge that you are a U.S. holder, as described in “U.S. Holders” above. We or our paying agent may,
however, report payments of interest on the notes.
The gross proceeds from the disposition of your notes may be subject to information reporting and backup withholding tax. If you sell your notes outside the United
States through a non-U.S. office of a non-U.S. broker and the sales proceeds are paid to you outside the United States, then the U.S. backup withholding and information
reporting requirements generally will not apply to that payment. However, U.S. information reporting, but not backup withholding, will apply to a payment of sales
proceeds, even if that payment is made outside the United States, if you sell your notes through a non-U.S. office of a broker that has certain connections with the
United States.
You should consult your own tax advisor regarding application of backup withholding in your particular circumstance and the availability of and procedure for
obtaining an exemption from backup withholding. Any amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules from a payment to you will be allowed as a refund or
credit against your U.S. federal income tax liability, provided the required information is furnished to the Internal Revenue Service.
U.S. Federal Income of Holders of Our Warrants
Exercise of Warrants  You will not generally recognize gain or loss upon the exercise of a warrant. Your basis in the debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares
or common stock, as the case may be, received upon the exercise of the warrant will be equal to the sum of your adjusted tax basis in the warrant and the exercise price
paid. Your holding period in the debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares or common stock, as the case may be, received upon the exercise of the warrant will
not include the period during which the warrant was held by you.
Expiration of Warrants  Upon the expiration of a warrant, you will generally recognize a capital loss in an amount equal to your adjusted tax basis in the warrant.
Sale or Exchange of Warrants  Upon the sale or exchange of a warrant to a person other than us, you will recognize gain or loss in an amount equal to the difference
between the amount realized on the sale or exchange and your adjusted tax basis in the warrant. Such gain or loss will generally be capital gain or loss and will be long-
term capital gain or loss if the warrant was held for more than one year. Upon the sale of the warrant to us, the Internal Revenue Service may argue that you should
recognize ordinary income on the sale. You are advised to consult your own tax advisors as to the consequences of a sale of a warrant to us.
Potential Legislation or Other Actions Affecting Tax Consequences
Current and prospective securities holders should recognize that the present U.S. federal income tax treatment of an investment in us may be modified by legislative,
judicial or administrative action at any time and that any such action may affect investments and commitments previously made. The rules dealing with U.S. federal
income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of the Treasury,
resulting in revisions of regulations and revised interpretations of established concepts as well as statutory changes. Revisions in U.S. federal tax laws and
interpretations of these laws could adversely affect the tax consequences of an investment in us.
State, Local and Foreign Taxes
We, and holders of our debt and equity securities, may be subject to state, local or foreign taxation in various jurisdictions, including those in which we or they
transact business, own property or reside. It should be noted that we own properties located in a number of state, local and foreign jurisdictions, and may be required to
file tax returns in some or all of those jurisdictions. The state, local or foreign tax treatment of us and holders of our debt and equity securities may not conform to the
U.S. federal income tax consequences discussed above. Consequently, you are urged to consult your advisor regarding the application and effect of state, local and
foreign tax laws with respect to any investment in our securities.
Because the U.S. generally maintains a worldwide corporate tax system, the foreign and U.S. tax systems are somewhat interdependent. Longstanding international
tax norms that determine each country’s jurisdiction to tax cross-border international trade are evolving and could reduce the ability of our foreign subsidiaries to deduct
for foreign tax purposes the interest they pay on loans from the Company, thereby increasing the foreign tax liability of the subsidiaries. It is also possible that foreign
countries could increase their withholding taxes on dividends and interest. Given the unpredictability of these
23
possible changes and their potential interdependency, it is very difficult to assess the overall effect of such potential tax changes on our earnings and cash flow, but such
changes could adversely impact our financial results.
Internet Access to Our SEC Filings
Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as well as our proxy statements
and other materials that are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) are made available, free of charge, on the Internet at
www.welltower.com/investors, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. We routinely post important information on our
website at www.welltower.com in the “Investors” section, including corporate and investor presentations and financial information. We intend to use our website as a
means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Such disclosures will be included on our
website under the heading “Investors.” Accordingly, investors should monitor such portion of our website in addition to following our press releases, public conference
calls, and filings with the SEC. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included as
an inactive textual reference only.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference contain statements that constitute “forward-looking statements,” within the meaning
of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When we use words such as “may,” “will,” “intend,” “should,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,”
“estimate” or similar expressions that do not relate solely to historical matters, we are making forward-looking statements. In particular, these forward-looking
statements include, but are not limited to, those relating to our opportunities to acquire, develop or sell properties; our ability to close our anticipated acquisitions,
investments or dispositions on currently anticipated terms, or within currently anticipated timeframes; the expected performance of our operators/tenants and properties;
our expected occupancy rates; our ability to declare and to make distributions to stockholders; our investment and financing opportunities and plans; our continued
qualification as a REIT; and our ability to access capital markets or other sources of funds. 
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from
our expectations discussed in the forward-looking statements. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to:
•the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic;
•uncertainty regarding the implementation and impact of the CARES Act and future stimulus or other COVID-19 relief legislation;
•status of the economy;
•the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital;
•issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government investigations
and punitive settlements and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in cost-effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance;
•changes in financing terms;
•competition within the health care and seniors housing industries;
•negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans;
•our ability to transition or sell properties with profitable results;
•the failure to make new investments or acquisitions as and when anticipated;
•natural disasters and other acts of God affecting our properties;
•our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur;
•our ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold;
•operator/tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies;
•the cooperation of joint venture partners;
•government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements;
•liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants;
•unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future investments or acquisitions;
24
•environmental laws affecting our properties;
•changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting;
•the movement of U.S. and foreign currency exchange rates;
•our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT;
•key management personnel recruitment and retention; and
•the risks described under “Item 1A — Risk Factors.”
We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Item 1A. Risk Factors
Risk Factor Summary
The following summarizes the principal factors that make an investment in our company speculative or risky, all of which are more fully described in the Risk Factors
section below. This summary should be read in conjunction with the Risk Factors section and should not be relied upon as an exhaustive summary of the material risks
facing our business. The order of presentation is not necessarily indicative of the level of risk that each factor poses to us.
Risks Arising from Our Business:
Our business model and the operations of our business involve risks, including those related to:
•the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic;
•uncertainty regarding the implementation and impact of the CARES Act and future stimulus or other COVID-19 relief legislation;
•investments in and acquisitions of health care and seniors housing properties;
•unknown liability exposure related to acquired properties;
•competition for acquisitions may result in increased prices;
•our joint venture partners;
•Seniors Housing Operating properties operational risks;
•our ability to terminate our management agreements with Seniors Housing Operating managers;
•operational and legal risks with respect to our properties managed in RIDEA structures;
•the ability of operators and tenants to make payments to us;
•the impacts of severe cold and flu seasons or other widespread illnesses on occupancy;
•the insolvency or bankruptcy of our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other obligors;
•our ability to timely reinvest our sale proceeds on terms acceptable to us;
•any adverse developments in the business or financial condition of Sunrise Senior Living, LLC;
•any failure, inability or unwillingness by ProMedica Health System to satisfy obligations under their agreements with us;
•ownership of property outside the U.S.;
•our ability to lease or sell properties on favorable terms;
•tenant, operator and manager insurance coverage;
•loss of properties owned through ground leases upon breach or termination of the ground leases;
•requirements of, or changes to governmental reimbursement programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid or government funding;
•controls imposed on certain of our tenants who provide health care services that are reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid and other third-party payors to reduce
admissions and length of stay;
•our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with federal, state, province, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations,
and standards;
•development, redevelopment and construction;
•losses caused by severe weather conditions, natural disasters or the physical effects of climate change;
•costs incurred to remediate environmental contamination at our properties;
•our reliance on data and technology systems and the increasing risks of cybersecurity incidents; and
25
•our dependence on key personnel.
Risks Arising from Our Capital Structure
Our capital structure involves exposure to risks, including those related to:
•our future leverage;
•the availability of cash for distributions to stockholders;
•covenants in our debt agreements;
•limitations on our ability to access capital;
•changes affecting the availability of LIBOR;
•any downgrades in our credit ratings; and
•increases in interest rates.
Risks Arising from Our Status as a REIT
As a result of our status as a REIT, we are exposed to risks, including those related to:
•our ability to remain qualified as a REIT;
•the ability of our subsidiaries to qualify as a REIT;
•the impact of the 90% annual distribution requirement on our liquidity and ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions;
•our limited use of TRSs under the Code;
•special requirements applicable to the lease of qualified health care properties to a taxable REIT subsidiary;
•tax consequences if certain sale-leaseback transactions are not characterized by the IRS as “true leases; and
•changes in our tax rate or exposure to additional tax liabilities.
Risks Factors
This section highlights significant factors, events and uncertainties that could create risk with an investment in our securities. The events and consequences discussed
in these risk factors could, in circumstances we may not be able to accurately predict, recognize or control, have a material adverse effect on our business, growth,
reputation, prospects, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, liquidity, ability to pay dividends and stock price. These risk factors do not identify all risks that
we face: our operations could also be affected by factors, events or uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider to present
significant risks to our operations. We group these risk factors into three categories:
•Risks arising from our business;
•Risks arising from our capital structure; and
•Risks arising from our status as a REIT. 
Risks Arising from Our Business
The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic may continue to adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.
We are unable to accurately predict the full impact that the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows
due to numerous factors that are not within our control. These factors include the duration and severity of the outbreak, including the impact of new variants; the
continued deployment of vaccines and boosters; the effectiveness of vaccines and boosters over time and against new variants; public health measures, such as business
closures and stay-at-home orders, and other actions taken by governments, businesses and individuals in response to the pandemic; the availability of federal, state, local
or non-U.S. funding programs; general economic disruption and uncertainty in key markets and financial market volatility; and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic
on general macroeconomic conditions and the pace of recovery when the pandemic subsides.
The COVID-19 pandemic has subjected our business, operations and financial condition to a number of risks, including but not limited to those discussed below:
•Risks Related to Revenue: Our revenues and our operators' revenues are dependent on occupancy. Our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio has experienced a
decline in spot occupancy from 85.8% at February 29, 2020 to 76.2% at December 31, 2020 and 77.7% at December 31, 2021. Although the ongoing impact of
the pandemic, including new variants, and vaccine and booster deployment on occupancy remain uncertain, occupancy of our Seniors Housing Operating and
Triple-net properties could further decrease, including as a result of new variants or decreases in vaccine effectiveness over time. Such a decrease could affect
the net operating income of our Seniors Housing Operating properties and the ability of our Triple-net operators to make contractual payments to us. In
addition,
26
although we collected virtually all rent due in the fourth quarter of 2021, rental income in our Outpatient Medical segment may decrease if our tenants do not
renew leases or do not make timely or full lease payments as a result of medical practice closures or decreases in revenue due to government imposed
restrictions on elective medical procedures or decisions by patients to delay treatments. As a result of the financial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our
operators and tenants, we may offer certain tenants concessions such as rent deferrals or rent abatements across our Triple-net and Outpatient Medical
segments.
•Risks Related to Operator and Tenant Financial Condition: In addition to decreased revenue from tenant and operator payments, the impact of the COVID-19
pandemic creates a heightened risk of tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor bankruptcy or insolvency due to factors such as prolonged decreased
occupancy, medical practice disruptions resulting from stay-at-home orders, increased health and safety and labor expenses or litigation resulting from
developments related to the COVID-19 pandemic. See" - The insolvency or bankruptcy of our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other obligors may
adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition" for more information Our ability to terminate our lease with a tenant or
management agreement with an operator or manager, and relet the property to another tenant or transition to a new operator or manager may be severely
limited under current conditions due to the industry and macroeconomic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and local ordinances. If we cannot transition a
leased property to a new tenant, operator or manager due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic or for other reasons, we may take possession of that
property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. Publicity about an operator's financial condition and insolvency proceedings, particularly in light
of ongoing publicity related to the COVID-19 pandemic, may also negatively impact their and our reputations, decreasing customer demand and revenues.
Additionally, COVID-19 claims have been excluded from insurance policies resulting in uninsured claims, and there has been an increase of COVID-19 class
action lawsuits filed that may result in unfavorable verdicts. Should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected.
•Risks Related to Operations: Across all of our properties, we and our operators and tenants have incurred increased operational costs as a result of the
introduction of public health measures and other regulations affecting our properties and operations, as well as additional health and safety measures adopted
by us and our operators and tenants related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including increases in labor and property cleaning expenses and expenditures related to
efforts to procure PPE and supplies. Such operational costs may increase in the future based on the duration and severity of the pandemic or the introduction of
additional public health regulations. In addition, operators and tenants are subject to risks arising from the unique pressures on seniors housing and medical
practice employees during the COVID-19 pandemic including labor shortages resulting from macroeconomic trends. As a result of difficult conditions and
stresses related to the COVID-19 pandemic, employee morale and productivity may suffer and additional pay, such as hazard pay, may not be sufficient to
retain key operator and tenant employees. In addition, our operations or those of our operators or tenants may be adversely impacted if a significant number of
our employees or those of our operators or tenants contract COVID-19. Although we continue to undertake extensive efforts to ensure the safety of our
employees and residents and to provide operator and tenant support in this regard, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our facilities could result in
additional operational costs and reputational and litigation risk to us and our operators and tenants. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, operator and tenant
cost of insurance is expected to increase and such insurance may not cover certain claims related to COVID-19. Our exposure to COVID-19 related litigation
risk may be increased if the operators or tenants of the relevant facilities are subject to bankruptcy or insolvency. In addition, to varying degrees during the
course of the pandemic, we have experienced increased operational challenges and costs resulting from logistical challenges such as supply chain interruptions,
business closures and restrictions on the movement of people. In response to stay-at-home orders and to support the health and well-being of our employees,
many of our employees are currently working remote or hybrid schedules. The effects of such work arrangements for an extended period of time could impact
employee productivity and morale and introduce additional operational risk, including but not limited to cybersecurity risks.
•Risks Related to Liquidity: If our access to capital is restricted or our borrowing costs increase as a result of developments in financial markets relating to the
pandemic, our operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. In addition, a prolonged period of decreased revenue may adversely affect our
financial condition and long-term growth prospects and there can also be no assurance that we will not face credit rating downgrades. Future downgrades could
adversely affect our cost of capital, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets.
The events and consequences discussed in these risk factors could, in circumstances we may not be able to accurately predict, recognize or control, have a material
adverse effect on our business, growth, reputation, prospects, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, liquidity, ability to pay dividends and stock price. As the
COVID-19 pandemic continues to adversely affect our operating and financial results, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in the
risk factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
27
There remains uncertainty regarding the implementation and impact of the CARES Act and any future stimulus or other COVID-19 relief legislation. There can be
no assurance as to the amount of financial assistance we and our operators will receive or that we will be able to comply with the terms and conditions to keep such
assistance.
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Coronavirus Aid Relief, and Economic Security Act ("CARES Act") and the Paycheck Protection Program and Health
Care Enhancement Act ("PPPHCE Act"), signed into law on March 20, 2020, and April 24, 2020, respectively, authorized $175 billion in funding to be distributed to
healthcare providers, including assisted living facilities. These funds, distributed through the Provider Relief Fund and administered by the Department of Health and
Human Services, are required to be used to prevent, prepare for and respond to COVID-19 and reimburse expenses or lost revenues attributable the COVID-19
pandemic. Although these distributions are not subject to repayment, attestation and compliance with certain terms and conditions including detailed reporting and
auditing are required. Any funds that are ultimately received and retained by us are not expected to fully offset the losses incurred in our senior living portfolio that are
attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic.
During the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we received government grants under the CARES Act primarily to cover increased expenses and lost revenue
during the COVID-19 pandemic as well as under similar programs in the U.K. and Canada. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 we recognized
$102,575,000 and $34,941,000, respectively, of government grant income. We have completed applications for grant income under Phase 4 of the Provider Relief Fund
and expect to receive additional funding during 2022. However, there can be no assurances that all of our applications will be approved or that additional funds will
ultimately be received in full or in part.
Our investments in and acquisitions of health care and seniors housing properties may be unsuccessful or fail to meet our expectations 
Some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. We could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including
contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. If we agree to
provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the project. Such expenditures
may negatively affect our results of operations. Investments in and acquisitions of seniors housing and health care properties entail risks associated with real estate
investments generally, including risks that the investment will not achieve expected returns, that the cost estimates for necessary property improvements will prove
inaccurate or that the tenant, operator or manager will fail to meet performance expectations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our anticipated acquisitions
and investments, the completion of which is subject to various conditions, will be consummated in accordance with anticipated timing, on anticipated terms, or at
all. We may be unable to obtain or assume financing for acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. Health care properties are often highly customizable and the
development or redevelopment of such properties may require costly tenant-specific improvements. We have experienced delays and disruptions to property
redevelopment as a result of supply chain issues and construction material and labor shortages and may experience additional or more significant such delays in the
future. We also may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and
this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Acquired properties may be located in new markets, either within or outside the
United States, where we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, lack of business relationships in the area,
costs associated with opening a new regional office and unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will
achieve the economic benefit we expect from acquisitions, investment, development and redevelopment opportunities and may lead to impairment of such assets. 
Acquired properties may expose us to unknown liability
We may acquire properties or invest in joint ventures that own properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, against the prior
owners or other third parties with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of those properties, we might
have to pay substantial sums to settle or contest it, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Unknown liabilities with respect to acquired
properties might include: liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of
the properties, liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors and others indemnified by the former
owners of the properties.
Competition for acquisitions may result in increased prices for properties
We may face competition for acquisition opportunities from other well-capitalized investors, including publicly traded and privately held REITs, private real estate
funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors. This
competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks: we may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-
capitalized real estate investors and, even if we are able to acquire a desired property, competition from other real estate investors may significantly increase the
purchase price.
28
Our investments in joint ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of exclusive control over these investments, our partners’ insolvency or failure to meet
their obligations, and disputes between us and our partners 
We have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, partnerships or joint ventures with other persons or entities. Joint venture investments involve risks
that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including the possibility that our partner might become insolvent, refuse to make capital contributions when
due or otherwise fail to meet its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; that our partner might at any time have
economic or other business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our interests or goals; that we could become engaged in a dispute with our partner,
which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such dispute and could have an adverse impact on the operations and profitability of the joint venture;
that our partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests; and that our joint venture partners may be structured
differently than us for tax purposes, which could create conflicts of interest and risks to our REIT status. In some instances, we and/or our partner may have the right to
trigger a buy-sell, put right or forced sale arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, acquire our partner’s interest or sell the underlying asset at a time when
we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. Our ability to acquire our partner’s interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available
borrowing capacity or other capital resources. In such event, we may be forced to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. On
the other hand, our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted and the market for our interest may be limited and/or valued lower
than fair market value. Joint ventures may require us to share decision-making authority with our partners, which could limit our ability to control the properties in the
joint ventures. Even when we have a controlling interest, certain major decisions may require partner approval, such as the sale, acquisition or financing of a property.
We assume operational and legal risks with respect to our properties managed in RIDEA structures that could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and financial condition
We have entered into various joint ventures that were structured under the provisions of the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007
(“RIDEA”), which permits REITs to own or partially own “qualified health care properties” in a structure through which we can participate directly in the cash flow of
the properties’ operations (as compared to receiving only contractual rent payments) in compliance with REIT requirements. A “qualified health care property” includes
real property and any personal property that is, or is necessary or incidental to the use of, a hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate care facility,
qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility which extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients.
Under a RIDEA structure, we are required to rely on our operator to manage and operate the property, including complying with laws and providing resident care.
However, as the owner of the property under a RIDEA structure, we are responsible for operational and legal risks and liabilities of the property, including, but not
limited to, those relating to employment matters of our operators, compliance with health care fraud and abuse and other laws, governmental reimbursement matters,
compliance with federal, state, local and industry-related licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards, and litigation involving our properties
or residents/patients, even though we have limited ability to control or influence our operators’ management of these risks. Further, our taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”)
is generally required to hold the applicable health care license and enroll in the applicable government health care programs (e.g., Medicare- and Medicaid), which
subjects us to potential liability under various health care regulatory laws. Penalties for failure to comply with applicable laws may include loss or suspension of licenses
and certificates of need, certification or accreditation, exclusion from government health care programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), administrative sanctions and civil
monetary penalties. Although we have some general oversight approval rights and the right to review operational and financial reporting information, our operators are
ultimately in control of the day-to-day business of the property, including clinical decision-making, and we rely on them to operate the properties in a manner that
complies with applicable law.
We are exposed to operational risks with respect to our Seniors Housing Operating properties that could adversely affect our revenue and operations
We are exposed to various operational risks with respect to our Seniors Housing Operating properties that may increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to
generate revenues. In addition to operational challenges related to the COVID-19 pandemic, these risks include fluctuations in occupancy experienced during the normal
course of business, Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates; economic conditions; competition; federal, state, local, and industry-
regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards; the availability and increases in cost of general and professional liability insurance
coverage; increases in property taxes; state regulation and rights of residents related to entrance fees; federal and state housing laws and regulations, including rent and
eviction restrictions related to the COVID-19 pandemic; and the availability and increases in the cost of labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise). Any one or a
combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue and operations and could eventually lead to impairment of our properties.
29
We have rights to terminate our management agreements with operators, in whole or with respect to specific properties under certain circumstances, and we may be
unable to replace if our management agreements are terminated or not renewed
We are parties to long-term management agreements with our Seniors Housing Operating managers pursuant to which they provide comprehensive property
management, accounting and other services with respect to our Seniors Housing Operating properties. We have the ability to terminate any of our management
agreements upon the occurrence of certain events such as insolvency relating to such manager, and in some cases, the failure to meet specific NOI targets without
curing, as well as the occurrence of other events or certain conditions.
We regularly monitor and review our rights and remedies under our management agreements. When determining if we will take significant action under those
agreements, including terminating a manager, we consider numerous legal, contractual, regulatory, business and other relevant factors. In exercising our rights to
terminate or not renew a management agreement, we would work with our existing seniors housing operators or potentially new operators to manage the properties;
however, there is no assurance that we would be able to timely source a replacement or that any replacement manager would be effective. Any transition to a new
manager would most likely require regulatory approval and potentially the approval of the holders of any liens on the property. The failure to replace on a timely basis,
as well as the failure to receive these approvals, either at all or in a timely manner, could have an adverse effect on the properties and our revenue.
Decreases in our operators’ or tenants' revenues or increases in our operators’ or tenants' expenses, including as a result of increased labor costs, could affect their
ability to make payments to us
We have very limited control over the success or failure of our operators' or tenants' businesses and, at any time, an operator or tenant may experience a downturn in
their business that weakens their financial condition. Our operators’ and tenants' revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, private pay rates, and Medicare and
Medicaid reimbursement, if applicable. Expenses are primarily driven by the costs of labor, supplies, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. Revenues
from government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. Operating costs continue to
increase for our operators and tenants. In particular, our operators' and tenants' businesses are vulnerable to increases in labor costs resulting from shortages of medical
and non-medical staff. A number of factors may adversely affect the labor force available to our operators and tenants or labor costs, including increased industry
competition, high employment levels, federal unemployment subsidies, including unemployment benefits offered in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, increased
wages offered by other employers, including in other economic sectors, vaccine mandates and other government regulations. During the COVID-19 pandemic, in many
geographic areas the lack of availability of specialized medical personnel, experienced senior care professionals and other workers has been a significant operating issue
affecting a wide range of healthcare providers and senior care and housing facilities. Such shortages have and may continue to impact the operations of our operators
and tenants, resulting in increased labor and operating costs. Continued labor shortages or cost inflation may impact our operators' and tenants' abilities to comply with
minimum staffing requirements under applicable federal and state regulations. Failure to comply with these requirements can, among other things, jeopardize a facility's
compliance with the conditions of participation under relevant state and federal healthcare programs. In addition, if a facility is determined to be out of compliance with
these requirements, it may be subject to fines and other regulatory penalties, including the suspension of patient admissions, the termination of Medicaid participation or
the suspension or revocation of licenses.
To the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in an operator or tenant not generating enough cash to make payments to
us, the credit of our operator or tenant and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. To the extent the value of such property is reduced, we may need to
record an impairment for such asset. Furthermore, if we determine to dispose of an underperforming property, such sale may result in a loss. Any such impairment or
loss on sale would negatively affect our financial results. These risks are magnified where we lease multiple properties to a single operator or tenant under a master
lease, as a failure or default under a master lease would expose us to these risks across multiple properties. Although our lease agreements give us the right to exercise
certain remedies in the event of default on the obligations owing to us, we may determine not to do so if we believe that enforcement of our rights would be more
detrimental to our business than seeking alternative approaches.
Increased competition and oversupply may affect our operators’ and managers' ability to meet their obligations to us 
The operators and managers of our properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators and managers of properties and other health care providers that
provide comparable services for residents and patients, including on the basis of the scope and quality of care and services provided, reputation and financial condition,
physical appearance of the properties, price, and location. In addition, in light of labor shortages for medical and non-medical workers in many geographic areas, our
operators and tenants increasingly compete to attract qualified and experienced employees. Our operators and managers are expected to encounter increased competition
in the future that could limit their ability to attract residents and employees or expand their businesses. In addition, we expect that there will continue to be a more than
adequate inventory of seniors housing facilities. We cannot be certain that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate
levels that meet our expected yields and fulfill their obligations to us, including but not limited to the results of the COVID-19 pandemic. If our operators and managers
cannot compete effectively or if there is an oversupply of facilities, their financial performance could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.
30
A severe cold and flu season, epidemics or any other widespread illnesses could adversely affect the occupancy of our Seniors Housing Operating and Triple-net
properties
In addition to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, our business and operations are exposed to risks from severe cold and flu seasons or the occurrence of
epidemics or any other widespread illnesses. Our revenues and our operators' revenues are dependent on occupancy and the occupancy of our Seniors Housing
Operating and Triple-net properties could significantly decrease in the event of a severe cold and flu season, an epidemic or any other widespread illness. Such a
decrease could affect the operating income of our Seniors Housing Operating properties and the ability of our Triple-net operators to make payments to us. As
experienced during the COVID-19 pandemic, a future flu or other pandemic could significantly increase the cost burdens faced by our operators, including if they are
required to implement quarantines for residents, and adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our
financial results. 
The insolvency or bankruptcy of our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other obligors may adversely affect our business, results of operations and
financial condition 
We are exposed to the risk that our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers or other obligors may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments
due us, which may result in a tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor bankruptcy or insolvency, or that a tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other
obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for other reasons. Although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a
tenant, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding obligation, demand immediate
repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party
that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. A tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency proceedings may be able to
limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise other rights and
remedies. In addition, if a lease is rejected in a tenant bankruptcy, our claim against the tenant may be limited by applicable provisions of the bankruptcy law. We may
be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property
and/or transition a property to a new tenant. In some instances, we have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. In some of those
situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new obligor. If we cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant, we may
take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. Publicity about the operator's financial condition and insolvency proceedings may
also negatively impact their and our reputations, decreasing customer demand and revenues. Should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be
adversely affected. 
We may not be able to timely reinvest our sale proceeds on terms acceptable to us 
From time to time, we will have cash available from the proceeds of sales of our securities, principal payments on our loans receivable or the sale of properties,
including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support arrangements. In order to maintain current revenues and continue
generating attractive returns, we expect to reinvest these proceeds in a timely manner. We compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors,
including other health care REITs, real estate partnerships, health care providers, health care lenders and other investors, including developers, banks, insurance
companies, pension funds, government-sponsored entities and private equity firms, some of whom may have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than
we do. This competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. In addition, our ability to
execute on our real estate investment strategies may be temporarily disrupted during periods of financial market volatility or real estate and health care industry market
uncertainty, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The properties managed by Sunrise Senior Living, LLC (“Sunrise”) account for a significant portion of our revenues and net operating income and any adverse
developments in its business or financial condition could adversely affect us 
As of December 31, 2021, Sunrise managed 110 of our Seniors Housing Operating properties. These properties account for a significant portion of our revenues and
net operating income. Under our management agreements, we rely on Sunrise’s personnel, expertise, technical resources and information systems, proprietary
information, good faith and judgment to manage our Seniors Housing Operating properties efficiently and effectively. We also rely on Sunrise to set appropriate resident
fees, to provide accurate property-level financial results for our properties in a timely manner and to otherwise operate them in compliance with the terms of our
management agreements and all applicable laws and regulations. Any adverse developments in Sunrise’s business or financial condition could impair its ability to
manage our properties efficiently and effectively, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. For example, we depend on
Sunrise’s ability to attract and retain skilled management personnel who are responsible for the day-to-day operations of our Seniors Housing Operating properties. A
shortage of nurses or other trained personnel or general inflationary pressures may force Sunrise to enhance its pay and benefits packages to compete effectively for
such personnel, but it may not be able to offset these added costs by increasing the rates charged to residents. Any increase in labor costs and other property operating
expenses, any failure by Sunrise to attract and retain qualified personnel, or significant changes in Sunrise’s senior management or equity ownership
31
could adversely affect the income we receive from our Seniors Housing Operating properties and have a material adverse effect on us. Also, if Sunrise experiences any
significant financial, legal, accounting or regulatory difficulties, such difficulties could result in, among other things, acceleration of its indebtedness, impairment of its
continued access to capital or the commencement of insolvency proceedings by or against it under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which, in turn, could adversely affect our
business, results of operations and financial condition. If we determine to sell or transition properties currently managed by Sunrise, we may experience operational
challenges and/or significantly declining financial performance for those properties.
We depend on ProMedica Health System ("ProMedica") for a significant portion of our revenues and any failure, inability or unwillingness by them to satisfy
obligations under their agreements with us could adversely affect us 
As of December 31, 2021, we lease 205 properties to ProMedica under triple-net leases, which account for a significant portion of our revenues. We depend on
ProMedica to pay all insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repair expenses in connection with the leased properties. We cannot assure you that ProMedica will
have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable them to make rental payments to us or to otherwise satisfy their respective obligations under our leases,
and any failure, inability or unwillingness by ProMedica to do so could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. ProMedica
have also agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective
businesses, and we cannot assure you that ProMedica will have sufficient assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to enable them to satisfy their
respective indemnification obligations. ProMedica's failure to effectively conduct their operations or to maintain and improve our properties could adversely affect their
business reputations and their ability to attract and retain patients and residents in our properties, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of
operations and financial condition.
Ownership of property outside the U.S. may subject us to different or greater risks than those associated with our domestic operations 
We have operations in the U.K. and Canada which represent 11.7% and 8.9% of total Welltower revenues, respectively. As of December 31, 2021, Revera managed 85
of our Seniors Housing Operating properties in Canada, representing a significant portion of our revenues, and also owned a controlling interest in Sunrise. International
development, ownership, and operating activities involve risks that are different from those we face with respect to our domestic properties and operations. These risks
include, but are not limited to, any international currency gain or loss recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates, which may not qualify under the 75% gross
income test or the 95% gross income test required for us to satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a REIT; challenges with respect to the
repatriation of foreign earnings and cash; impact from international trade disputes and the associated impact on our tenants' supply chain and consumer spending levels;
changes in foreign political, regulatory, and economic conditions (regionally, nationally and locally) including, but not limited to, challenges in managing international
operations; challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to real estate, corporate governance, operations, taxes,
employment and other civil and criminal legal proceedings; foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in foreign countries; local businesses and cultural
factors that differ from our usual standards and practices; differences in lending practices and the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide financing;
regional or country-specific business cycles and political and economic instability; and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations in the U.S. that affect
foreign operations, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Additionally, the COVID-19 pandemic may subject our international business
and that of our operators and tenants to different or greater risks than those faced in the U.S. These factors may include the duration and severity of the outbreak in a
particular country due to the impact of new variants, the distribution of vaccines and boosters, or public health measures or other actions taken by governments,
businesses and individuals in response to the pandemic.
If our tenants do not renew their existing leases, or if we are required to sell properties for liquidity reasons, we may be unable to lease or sell the properties on
favorable terms, or at all
We cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times. If these leases are not renewed, we
would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties, or sell them. There can be no assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants
or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all. Our competitors may offer
space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose potential customers, and we may be pressured
to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge to retain customers when leases expire. In addition, our ability to reposition our properties with a suitable
replacement tenant or operator could be significantly delayed or limited by state licensing, receivership, CON or other laws, as well as by the Medicare and Medicaid
change-of-ownership rules, and we could incur substantial additional expenses in connection with any licensing, receivership or change-of-ownership proceedings. Even
if tenants decide to renew or lease new space, the terms of renewals or new leases, including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants, may be less
favorable to us than current lease terms.
32
Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and most of the property we own is highly customized for specific uses. Our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of
our properties in response to changes in operator, economic and other conditions will be limited. No assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any
property that we are required to sell. Our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and
results of operations. In addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and health care
industries. A downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to
us. 
Our tenants, operators and managers may not have the necessary insurance coverage to insure adequately against losses 
We maintain or require our tenants, operators and managers to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties and their operations with terms,
conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are customary for similarly situated companies in our industry and we frequently review our insurance programs and
requirements. Our tenants, operators and managers may not be able to maintain adequate levels of insurance and required coverages. Also, we may not be able to require
the same levels of insurance coverage under our lease, management and other agreements, which could adversely affect us in the event of a significant uninsured loss.
We cannot make any guarantee as to the future financial viability of the insurers that underwrite our policies and the policies maintained by our tenants, operators and
managers. Insurance may not be available at a reasonable cost in the future or policies may not be maintained at a level that will fully cover all losses on our properties
upon the occurrence of a catastrophic event. This may be especially the case due to increases in property insurance costs. In addition, in recent years, long-term/post-
acute care and seniors housing operators and managers have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims. As a result,
general and professional liability costs have increased in some markets. Due to the uncertainty of the long term effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, general and
professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the tenants’, operators’ and managers’ future operations, cash
flows and financial conditions, and may have a material adverse effect on the tenants’, operators’ and managers’ ability to meet their obligations to us. Finally, our use,
and the usage by some of our tenants, operators and managers of self-insurance and/or use of a wholly owned captive insurance company, if not adequately funded,
could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and that of our tenants, operators and managers.
Our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground leases 
We have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is located, and we may acquire
additional properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. Many of these ground leases impose significant limitations on our uses of the
subject properties, restrict our ability to sell or otherwise transfer our interests in the properties or restrict the leasing of the properties. These restrictions may limit our
ability to timely sell or exchange the properties, impair the properties’ value or negatively impact our ability to find suitable tenants for the properties. As the lessee
under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us.
The requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid or government funding, could have a material adverse
effect on our obligors’ liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect our obligors’ ability to meet their obligations to us 
Some of our obligors’ businesses are affected by government reimbursement. To the extent that an operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues from
government payors, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of
program overpayments or set-offs, court decisions, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers, change-of-
ownership rules, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities), any lapse in Congressional funding of the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing government investigations and audits at such property. In recent years,
government payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures. Federal and state authorities may continue seeking to
implement new or modified reimbursement methodologies that may negatively impact health care property operations. See “Item 1 - Business - Certain Government
Regulations - United States - Reimbursement” above for additional information. Health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to
federal and state authorities. We cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the financial condition of our
obligors and properties. There can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services provided by any property operator, whether the
property receives reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid or private payors. Significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees
could have a material adverse effect on an obligor’s liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor to meet
its obligations to us. 
Since January 1, 2014, the Health Reform Laws have provided those states that expand their Medicaid coverage to otherwise eligible state residents with incomes at
or below 138% of the federal poverty level with an increased federal medical assistance percentage, effective January 1, 2014, when certain conditions are met. Given
that the federal government substantially funds the Medicaid expansion, it is unclear how many states will ultimately pursue this option, although, as of early January
2022,
33
more than 75% of the states have expanded Medicaid coverage. The participation by states in the Medicaid expansion could have the dual effect of increasing our
tenants’ revenues, through new patients, but further straining state budgets and their ability to pay our tenants.
While there have been multiple attempts to repeal or amend the Health Reform Laws through legislative action and legal challenges, legislative attempts to
completely repeal the Health Reform Laws have been unsuccessful to date, and on June 17, 2021, the U.S. Supreme Court dismissed the most recent judicial challenge
to the Health Reform Laws brought by several states without specifically ruling on the constitutionality of the Health Reform Laws. Nevertheless, the status of the
Health Reform Laws may be subject to change and other health reform measures could be implemented as a result of political, legislative, regulatory, and administrative
developments and judicial proceedings. Further impact that the Biden Administration or U.S. Congress may have on health reform (including through new legislative,
executive order, or regulatory efforts) remains uncertain, and any changes will likely take time to unfold and could have an impact on coverage and reimbursement for
health care items and services covered by plans that were authorized by the Health Reform Laws. If the operations, cash flows or financial condition of our operators
and tenants are materially adversely impacted by the Health Reform Laws or future legislation, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected as well. More
generally, and because of the dynamic nature of the legislative and regulatory environment for health care products and services, and in light of existing federal deficit
and budgetary concerns, we cannot predict the impact that broad-based, far-reaching legislative or regulatory changes could have on the U.S. economy, our business, or
that of our operators and tenants. 
If controls imposed on certain of our tenants who provide health care services that are reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid and other third-party payors to reduce
admissions and length of stay affect inpatient volumes at our health care facilities, the financial condition or results of operations of those tenants could be
adversely affected
Controls imposed by Medicare, Medicaid and commercial third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as “utilization
reviews,” have affected and are expected to continue to affect certain of our health care facilities, specifically our acute care hospitals and post-acute facilities.
Utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and
occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required pre-admission authorization and utilization review and by payor pressures to maximize outpatient
and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. Efforts to impose more stringent cost controls and reductions are expected to continue, which
could negatively impact the financial condition of our tenants who provide health care services in our hospitals and post-acute facilities. If so, this could adversely affect
these tenants’ ability and willingness to comply with the terms of their leases with us and/or renew those leases upon expiration, which could have a material adverse
effect on us.
Our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with federal, state, province, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and
standards could adversely affect such operators’ or tenants’ operations, which could adversely affect our operators’ and tenants’ ability to meet their obligations to
us 
Our operators and tenants generally are subject to or impacted by varying levels of federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection
laws, regulations, and standards. These laws and regulations include, among others: laws protecting consumers against deceptive practices; laws relating to the operation
of our properties and how our tenants and operators conduct their business, such as fire, health and safety, data security and privacy laws; federal and state laws
affecting hospitals, clinics and other health care communities that participate in both Medicare and Medicaid that specify reimbursement rates, pricing, reimbursement
procedures and limitations, quality of services and care, background checks, food service and physical plants, and similar foreign laws regulating the health care
industry; resident rights laws (including abuse and neglect laws) and fraud laws; anti-kickback and physician referral laws; the ADA and similar state and local laws;
and safety and health standards set by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration or similar foreign agencies. Our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with
any of these laws, regulations, or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension, decertification or exclusion
from federal and state health care programs, civil liability, and in certain limited instances, criminal penalties, material restrictions on or loss of license, closure of the
facility and/or the incurrence of considerable costs arising from an investigation or regulatory action. The likelihood of these actions may increase due to the uncertainty
of the long term effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Such actions may have an effect on our operators’ or tenants’ ability to make lease payments to us and, therefore,
adversely impact us. In addition, we may be directly subject to these laws, regulations and standards, as well as potential investigation or enforcement, as a result of our
RIDEA-structured arrangements, and certain other arrangements we may pursue with healthcare entities who are directly subject to these laws. See “Item 1 - Business -
Certain Government Regulations - United States - Fraud & Abuse Enforcement” and “Item 1 - Business - Certain Government Regulations - United States - Health Care
Matters - Generally” above.
Many of our properties may require a license, registration, and/or CON to operate. Failure to obtain a license, registration, or CON, or loss of a required license,
registration, or CON would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the operators or tenants. These events could materially adversely affect our
operators’ or tenants’ ability to make rent or other obligatory payments to us. State and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the addition of new beds or
services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction or renovation of health care facilities, by requiring a CON or other
34
similar approval from a state agency. See “Item 1 — Business — Certain Government Regulations — United States — Licensing and Certification” above. 
In addition, we cannot assure you that future changes in government regulation will not adversely affect the health care industry, including our tenants and operators,
nor can we be certain that our tenants and operators will achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels or labor cost levels that will enable them to satisfy their
obligations to us.
Unfavorable resolution of pending and future litigation matters and disputes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition
From time to time, we are directly involved or named as a party in in legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims that involve class actions, disputes regarding
property damage, care matters and other issues. We also are named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our actions or the actions of our operators/tenants
or managers in which such operators/tenants or managers have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and
liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses. Employment related class action lawsuits have increased in recent years, including but not limited to
class action lawsuits brought against our operators in certain states regarding employee and government requirements regarding wage and hour claims and fair housing
complaints, as well as class action lawsuits related to COVID-19. There can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of,
pending or future litigation. In addition, pending litigation or future litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or
interruption of our normal business operations. An unfavorable resolution of pending or future litigation or legal proceedings may have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition. Regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses, significantly divert the attention
of management, and could damage our reputation and our brand. In addition, any such resolution could involve our agreement to terms that restrict the operation of our
business. We cannot guarantee losses incurred in connection with any current or future legal or regulatory proceedings or actions will not exceed any provisions we may
have set aside in respect of such proceedings or actions or will not exceed any available insurance coverage.
Development, redevelopment and construction risks could affect our profitability
We invest in various development and redevelopment projects. In deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the
expected future performance of that property. In particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected construction costs, lease up velocity, occupancy,
rental rates, operating expenses, capital costs and future competition. If our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate, the property may fail to
perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. Our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which
may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals.
Our development/redevelopment and construction projects are vulnerable to the impact of material shortages and inflation. For example, shortages and fluctuations in
the price of lumber or in other important raw materials could result in delays in the start or completion of, or increase the cost of, developing one or more of our
projects. Pricing for labor and raw materials can be affected by various national, regional, local, economic and political factors, including changes to immigration laws
that impact the availability of labor or tariffs on imported construction materials.
In connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining,
necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, or satisfactory tax rates, incentives or abatements.
Operators of new facilities we construct may need to obtain Medicare and Medicaid certification and enter into Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements and/or
third-party payor contracts. In the event that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts after the completion
of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains a license or certification to operate the
new facility and the necessary provider agreements or contracts or we find and contract with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its
intended use and the necessary provider agreements or contracts. We have experienced such delays in obtaining necessary licensing for constructed properties and may
experience additional or more significant delays in the future.
We rely on our development managers, general contractors and subcontractors to oversee and manage day-to-day construction activities. If any such party
underperforms, we may need to exercise contractual remedies against such party, which may include termination of the applicable underlying service contract. In the
event such termination occurs mid-construction, we would likely need to engage a new service provider, which would likely result in additional costs and delays as the
transition between providers occurs.
The above-described factors could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects. In addition, we may abandon opportunities we have begun to
investigate, for a range of reasons, including changes in expected financing or construction costs, adverse changes in expected rents or expenses, adverse environmental
and/or geotechnical findings, or conditions to zoning approval, which would result in additional expenses beyond those originally expected. In addition, we may not be
able to obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities. We may not be able to complete
construction and lease-up of a property on budget and on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs. Additionally, the time
frame required for development,
35
construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for significant cash returns. Because we are required to make cash distributions to
our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund such distributions. Newly
developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance. 
We may experience losses caused by severe weather conditions, natural disasters or the physical effects of climate change, which could result in an increase of our
or our tenants’ cost of insurance, unanticipated costs associated with evacuation, a decrease in our anticipated revenues or a significant loss of the capital we have
invested in a property 
We maintain or require our tenants to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are
appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage. However, a large number of our properties are located in areas particularly susceptible to revenue loss,
cost increase or damage caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes and floods, as well as the effects of climate
change. We believe, given current industry practice and analysis prepared by outside consultants, that our and our tenants’ insurance coverage is appropriate to cover
reasonably anticipated losses that may be caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, floods, wildfires and other severe weather conditions and natural disasters,
including the effects of climate change. Nevertheless, we are always subject to the risk that such insurance will not fully cover all losses and, depending on the severity
of the event and the impact on our properties, such insurance may not cover a significant portion of the losses including but not limited to the costs associated with
evacuation. These losses may lead to an increase of our and our tenants’ cost of insurance, a decrease in our anticipated revenues from an affected property and a loss of
all or a portion of the capital we have invested in an affected property. In addition, we or our tenants may not purchase insurance under certain circumstances if the cost
of insurance exceeds, in our or our tenants’ judgment, the value of the coverage relative to the risk of loss. Also, changes in federal and state legislation and regulation
relating to climate change could result in increased capital expenditures to improve the energy efficiency and resiliency of our existing properties and could also
necessitate us to spend more on our new development properties without a corresponding increase in revenue.
To the extent that significant changes in the climate occur in areas where our communities are located, we may experience extreme weather and changes in
precipitation and temperature, all of which may result in physical damage to or a decrease in demand for properties located in these areas or affected by these conditions.
Should the impact of climate change be material, including significant property damage to or destruction of our communities, or occur for lengthy periods of time, our
financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, changes in federal, state and local legislation and regulation based on concerns about
climate change could result in increased capital expenditures on our existing properties and our new development properties without a corresponding increase in
revenue, resulting in adverse impacts to our net income.
We may incur costs to remediate environmental contamination at our properties, which could have an adverse effect on our or our obligors’ business or financial
condition
Under various laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held
liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. These laws often impose
liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. We may become liable to reimburse the government
for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. Generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the person’s relationship to the property.
Our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property. Moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we own
or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. Those assessments are designed to meet the “all appropriate inquiry” standard, which we believe qualifies us for the
innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. Based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material
environmental contamination. However, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination, which could
have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition or the business or financial condition of our obligors. 
Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business and result in the loss of confidential information and legal liability
Our business is at risk from and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to our confidential data through phishing or
other malicious activity, attempts to interrupt our access to, or use of information technology systems through distributed denial-of-service or ransomware attacks,
breaches related to our increased receipt and use of data from multiple sources, and other electronic security breaches or other cybersecurity incidents within our
environment or our business partners' environments, including those resulting from human error, product defects and technology failures. Such cyber-attacks can range
from individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our or our business partners' information technology systems to more sophisticated security threats and may be
specifically targeted to our business or more general industry wide risks. Our information technology networks, and those of our business partners are essential to our
ability to perform day-to-day operations of our business. While we employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, there is no guarantee such
efforts will be successful in preventing or detecting a cyber-attack. Even the most well-protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain vulnerable
because the techniques used in such attempted cybersecurity breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are
36
designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques, implement adequate cybersecurity barriers
or other preventative measures, or respond, mitigate the risks from and recover from an attack without operational impact, and thus it is impossible for us to entirely
mitigate this risk. We regularly defend against, respond to and mitigate risks from cybersecurity breaches, which to date have not had a material impact on our
operations; however, there is no assurance that such impacts will not be material in the future. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our or our critical business partners’
business, damage our reputation, cause us to incur significant remediation expense and have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
of operations. Cybersecurity breaches that compromise proprietary, personal identifying or confidential information of our employees, operators, tenants and partners, or
result in operational disruptions, could result in legal claims or proceedings, including enforcement actions by regulators under data privacy regulations.
Evolving privacy regulations could expose our business to reputational harm and losses
Regulatory authorities around the world have implemented or are considering implementing a number of legislative changes or regulations concerning data
protection, which have required or may require us to incur additional expenses and may expose us to additional risks. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations
governing the protection of personal and confidential information of our clients or employees, including U.S. federal and state laws (including. but not limited to the
State of California), and non- U.S. laws, such as the General Data Protection Regulation and the EU General Data Protection Regulation, which impose a number of
obligations on us. These obligations vary from state to state and country to country, but generally have accountability and transparency including consent, detailed
information and data removal and security requirements. Some jurisdictions impose the same requirements and restrictions on transfers of data from their jurisdictions
to jurisdictions that they do not consider adequate. This may have implications for our cross-border data flows and may result in additional compliance costs.
Many jurisdictions assess fines, the magnitude of which may depend on the annual global revenue of the noncompliant company, the nature, gravity and duration of,
and the violation. Additionally, in some jurisdictions, data subjects may have a right to compensation for financial or non-financial losses. Complying with these laws
may cause us to incur substantial operational and compliance costs or require us to change our business practices. Despite efforts to bring our practices into compliance
with these laws, we may not be successful either due to internal or external factors such as resource allocation limitations or a lack of cooperation among our business
partners. Non-compliance could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities, regulators, our business partners, residents of our communities, data subjects,
suppliers, vendors or other parties. Further, there is a risk that compliance measures we undertake will not be implemented correctly or that individuals within our
business or that of our business partners will not be fully compliant with the new procedures. If there are breaches of these measures, we could face significant
administrative and monetary sanctions, as well as reputational damage, which may have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and prospects.
Our success and the success of our operators and managers depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed 
Our success and the success of our operators and managers depends on the continued availability and service of key personnel, including executive officers and other
highly qualified employees, and competition for their talents is intense. There is substantial competition for qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will retain
our key personnel or that we will be able to recruit and retain other highly qualified employees in the future. Losing any key personnel could, at least temporarily, have a
material adverse effect on our business and that of our operators and managers', financial position and results of operations. 
Risks Arising from Our Capital Structure 
We may become more leveraged 
Permanent financing for our investments is typically provided through a combination of public offerings of debt and equity securities and the incurrence or
assumption of secured debt. The incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become more leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater
portion of our cash flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing,
(4) negatively affect our credit ratings or outlook by one or more of the rating agencies or (5) make us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates because of the
variable interest rates on some of our borrowings to the extent we have not entirely hedged such variable rate debt. 
Cash available for distributions to stockholders may be insufficient to make dividend contributions at expected levels and are made at the discretion of the Board of
Directors 
If cash available for distribution generated by our assets decreases due to dispositions or otherwise, we may be unable to make dividend distributions at expected
levels. Our inability to make expected distributions would likely result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. All distributions are made at the
discretion of our Board of Directors in accordance with Delaware law and depend on our earnings, our financial condition, debt and equity capital available to us, our
expectation of
37
our future capital requirements and operating performance, restrictive covenants in our financial and other contractual arrangements, maintenance of our REIT
qualification, restrictions under Delaware law and other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. Additionally, our ability to make
distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein, or other significant adverse events, occur. 
We are subject to covenants in our debt agreements that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition
Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios
and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. Breaches of these covenants
could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments.
These defaults could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
Limitations on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments
We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. Our
access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions;
the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; the market price of the shares of our common stock
and the credit ratings of our debt securities; changes in the credit ratings on U.S. government debt securities; uncertainty from the expected discontinuance of LIBOR
and the transition to any other interest rate benchmark; and default or delay in payment by the U.S. of its obligations. We also rely on the financial institutions that are
parties to our revolving credit facilities. If these institutions become capital constrained, tighten their lending standards or become insolvent or if they experience
excessive volumes of borrowing requests from other borrowers within a short period of time, they may be unable or unwilling to honor their funding commitments to us,
which would adversely affect our ability to draw on our revolving credit facilities and, over time, could negatively impact our ability to consummate acquisitions, repay
indebtedness as it matures, fund capital expenditures or make distributions to our stockholders. If our access to capital is limited by these factors or other factors, it
could negatively impact our ability to acquire properties, repay or refinance our indebtedness, fund operations or make distributions to our stockholders.
Changes affecting the availability of the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) may have consequences for us that cannot yet reasonably be predicted
We have outstanding debt, hedge agreements and receivable transactions with variable interest rates based on LIBOR. The LIBOR benchmark has been subject of
national, international, and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. In March 2021, ICE Benchmark Administration, the administrator of LIBOR, confirmed
that it would cease publication of USD LIBOR on December 31, 2021 for the one week and two month USD LIBOR tenors, and on June 30, 2023 for all other USD
LIBOR tenors. As a result, the United States Federal Reserve has advised banks to stop new USD LIBOR issuances by the end of 2021. The Alternative Reference Rates
Committee, which was convened by the Federal Reserve Board and the New York Fed, has identified the Second Oversight Financing Rate ("SOFR") as the
recommended alternative rate for LIBOR. While it is not currently possible to determine precisely whether, or to what extent, the withdrawal and replacement of LIBOR
would affect us, the implementation of SOFR or other alternative benchmark rates to LIBOR may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or
financial condition. Any new benchmark rate will likely not replicate LIBOR exactly, which could impact contracts that terminate after 2023. There is uncertainty about
how applicable law, the courts or we will address the replacement of LIBOR with alternative rates on agreements that do not include alternative rate fallback provisions.
In addition, any changes to benchmark rates may have an uncertain impact on our cost of funds and our access to the capital markets, which could impact our results of
operations and cash flows. Uncertainty as to the nature of such potential changes may also adversely affect the trading market for our securities. Additional financing,
therefore, may be unavailable, more expensive or restricted by the terms of our outstanding indebtedness.
Downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our cost and availability of capital
We plan to manage the company to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our
current credit ratings. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a material adverse effect on our cost and availability
of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, cash flows, the trading/redemption price of our securities and our
ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our equity holders.
Increases in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our cost of capital
An increase in interest rates may increase interest cost on new and existing variable rate debt.  Such increases in the cost of capital could adversely impact our ability
to finance operations, acquire and develop properties, and refinance existing debt. Additionally, increased interest rates may also result in less liquid property markets,
limiting our ability to sell existing assets.
38
Risks Arising from Our Status as a REIT 
We might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT 
We intend to operate as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), and believe we have operated and will continue to operate in
such a manner. If we lose our status as a REIT, we will face serious income tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our
obligations and for distribution to our stockholders because:
•we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular
corporate rates;
•we would be subject to increased state and local taxes; and
•unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable    years following the year during which
we were disqualified. 
Since REIT qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and if we do, our earnings will be
reduced by the amount of U.S. federal and other income taxes owed. A reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. If we
do not qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to stockholders, since a non-REIT is not required to pay dividends to stockholders in order to
maintain REIT status or avoid an excise tax. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, all distributions to stockholders will continue to be treated as dividends to the
extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction, and individual
stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally applicable to long-term capital gains with respect to distributions. 
As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value of
our common stock. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and
administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified
as a REIT. Although we believe that we qualify as a REIT, we cannot assure you that we will remain qualified as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. 
Certain subsidiaries might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT
We own interests in a number of entities which have elected to be taxed as REITs for U.S. federal income tax purposes, some of which we consolidate for financial
reporting purposes but each of which is treated as a separate REIT for federal income tax purposes (each a “Subsidiary REIT”). To qualify as a REIT, each Subsidiary
REIT must independently satisfy all of the REIT qualification requirements under the Code, together with all other rules applicable to REITs. Provided that each
Subsidiary REIT qualifies as a REIT, our interests in the Subsidiary REITs will be treated as qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests. If a
Subsidiary REIT fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, such Subsidiary REIT will be subject to federal and state income taxes and may not be able to qualify as
a REIT for the four subsequent taxable years. Any such failure could have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with the REIT income and asset tests, and thus our
ability to qualify as a REIT, unless we are able to avail ourselves of certain relief provisions. 
The 90% annual distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions 
To comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to REITs and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders.
Although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time
to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement. This may be due to timing differences between the actual
receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our
taxable income, on the other hand. In addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash
deductions may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. In the event that timing differences occur,
or we deem it appropriate to retain cash, we may borrow funds, even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings, issue additional
equity securities (although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage
in other transactions intended to enable us to meet the REIT distribution requirements. This may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations. 
Our use of TRSs is limited under the Code
Under the Code, no more than 20% of the value of the gross assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. This limitation may affect our
ability to increase the size of our TRSs’ operations and assets, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the applicable limitation, or that such
compliance will not adversely affect our business. Also, our TRSs may not, among other things, operate or manage certain health care facilities, which may cause us to
forgo investments we might otherwise make. Finally, we may be subject to a 100% excise tax on the income derived from certain transactions with our TRSs that are
not on an arm's-length basis. We believe our arrangements with our TRSs are on
39
arm's-length terms and intend to continue to operate in a manner that allows us to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above, but there can be no assurance
that we will be able to avoid application of that tax.
The lease of qualified health care properties to a taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to special requirements
We lease certain qualified health care properties to taxable REIT subsidiaries (or limited liability companies of which the taxable REIT subsidiaries are members),
which lessees contract with managers (or related parties) to manage the health care operations at these properties. The rents from this taxable REIT subsidiary lessee
structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property if (1) they are paid pursuant to an arm's-length lease of a qualified health care property with a taxable REIT
subsidiary and (2) the manager qualifies as an eligible independent contractor (as defined in the Code). If any of these conditions are not satisfied, then the rents will not
be qualifying rents. 
If certain sale-leaseback transactions are not characterized by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) as “true leases,” we may be subject to adverse tax
consequences 
We have purchased certain properties and leased them back to the sellers of such properties, and we may enter into similar transactions in the future. We intend for
any such sale-leaseback transaction to be structured in such a manner that the lease will be characterized as a “true lease,” thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner
of the property for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, depending on the terms of any specific transaction, the IRS might take the position that the transaction is
not a “true lease” but is more properly treated in some other manner. In the event any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and successfully re-characterized by the
IRS, we would not be entitled to claim the deductions for depreciation and cost recovery generally available to an owner of property. Furthermore, if a sale-leaseback
transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT asset tests or income tests and, consequently, could lose our REIT status effective with the year of
re-characterization. Alternatively, the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated, which may cause us to fail to meet the REIT annual distribution
requirements for a taxable year. 
We could be subject to changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities 
We are subject to taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Because the U.S. maintains a worldwide corporate tax system, the foreign and U.S. tax systems are
somewhat interdependent. Longstanding international norms that determine each country's jurisdiction to tax cross-border international trade are evolving and could
reduce the ability of our foreign subsidiaries to deduct for foreign tax purposes the interest they pay on loans from us, thereby increasing the foreign tax liability of the
subsidiaries; it is also possible that foreign countries could increase their withholding taxes on dividends and interest.
Our effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates or changes in tax laws or their
interpretation. We are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the IRS and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. We regularly
assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the
outcome of these examinations. If we were subject to review or examination by the IRS or applicable foreign jurisdiction as the result of any new tax law changes, the
ultimate determination of which may change our taxes owed for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued or recorded, our financial condition, operating
results, and cash flows could be adversely affected.
The present federal income tax treatment of REITs may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time,
which could affect the federal income tax treatment of an investment in us. The federal income tax rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation and REITs are
constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent
revisions to regulations and interpretations.
We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions might affect our investors or us. Revisions in tax laws and interpretations thereof
could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a REIT, as well as the tax considerations relevant to an investment in us, could cause us to change our
investments and commitments, and adversely affect our earnings and cash flow.
Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments
None.
40
Item 2.  Properties 
We lease our corporate headquarters located at 4500 Dorr Street, Toledo, Ohio 43615. We also lease corporate offices throughout the U.S., Canada and the United
Kingdom and have ground leases relating to certain of our properties. The following table sets forth certain information regarding the properties that comprise our
consolidated real property and real estate loan investments as of December 31, 2021 (dollars in thousands):
 Seniors Housing Operating Triple-net Outpatient Medical
Property LocationNumber of
Properties Total InvestmentAnnualized
RevenuesNumber of
Properties Total InvestmentAnnualized
RevenuesNumber of
Properties Total InvestmentAnnualized
Revenues
Alabama 3 $ 34,937 $ 8,795 3 $ 33,898 $ 4,233 2 $ 33,359 $ 2,792 
Arkansas 1 38,630 10,296 — — — 1 22,520 2,920 
Arizona 10 214,624 47,406 — — — 7 79,905 9,887 
California 93 3,129,715 730,284 24 460,884 69,799 38 906,083 91,507 
Colorado 15 456,837 98,388 12 294,463 24,997 1 10,185 2,175 
Connecticut 3 68,634 16,543 4 75,789 32,480 7 102,045 7,430 
District Of Columbia 2 87,481 12,799 — — — — — — 
Delaware 8 240,407 38,371 4 104,491 12,829 — — — 
Florida 13 713,529 116,379 53 623,783 89,573 25 234,127 43,779 
Geor gia 16 268,543 60,190 3 38,796 4,614 12 215,537 27,067 
Hawaii 1 2,568 18,090 — — — — — — 
Iowa 7 90,641 26,804 7 55,196 6,156 — — — 
Idaho 3 64,462 6,187 — — — 2 50,510 4,368 
Illinois 35 583,215 142,670 24 353,815 28,432 7 110,944 14,957 
Indiana 8 223,553 31,609 27 411,883 47,524 — — — 
Kansas 3 66,494 14,325 27 234,044 43,949 — — — 
Kentucky 4 58,703 18,713 7 68,269 8,872 — — — 
Louisiana 5 70,555 19,726 3 82,193 3,690 — — — 
Massachusetts 16 386,988 76,800 10 189,021 7,384 7 104,531 9,383 
Maryland 10 438,074 76,124 21 265,773 23,042 11 238,210 24,710 
Maine 1 23,154 11,489 — — — — — — 
Michigan 13 354,570 66,542 25 245,965 28,273 13 194,793 10,067 
Minnesota 3 78,936 12,888 12 229,964 23,326 7 145,120 31,083 
Missouri 6 126,388 18,897 — — — 12 189,326 27,418 
Mississippi 2 16,778 8,834 1 10,085 — 1 34,947 2,382 
Montana 2 25,831 8,148 — — — — — — 
North Carolina 10 283,634 52,225 51 415,157 57,404 24 567,936 47,387 
North Dakota 1 13,721 1,336 — — — — — — 
Nebraska 5 39,674 13,795 — — — 1 11,240 2,728 
New Hampshire — — — 3 33,395 2,936 — — — 
New Jersey 28 702,293 192,833 29 597,879 64,403 13 328,853 46,868 
Nevada 7 128,179 29,585 — — — 8 127,634 9,542 
New York 33 676,220 147,063 4 63,822 10,246 15 418,384 28,926 
Ohio 29 419,81 1 76,084 40 407,072 48,538 5 84,941 11,236 
Oklahoma 5 98,030 26,279 20 208,168 41,909 2 13,779 2,449 
Oregon 14 164,576 40,374 1 2,550 864 1 43,191 2,720 
Pennsylvania 18 275,220 72,017 59 645,435 87,385 4 72,343 6,946 
South Carolina 5 94,471 24,313 7 33,320 4,263 2 9,930 1,522 
Tennessee 7 115,744 31,729 7 98,620 8,380 3 66,216 6,670 
Texas 70 1,350,583 289,097 26 410,668 61,531 56 1,028,184 104,534 
Utah 4 74,617 23,932 1 22,372 2,106 — — — 
Virginia 9 376,764 108,414 29 383,314 46,121 6 110,626 13,517 
Washington 30 661,076 146,938 7 89,181 11,517 8 186,665 27,367 
Wisconsin 2 18,953 4,985 5 88,064 10,906 5 88,135 9,508 
West Virginia — — — 1 6,293 1,005 — — — 
Total domestic 560 13,357,813 2,978,296 557 7,283,622 918,687 306 5,830,199 633,845 
Canada 97 2,047,065 405,295 6 140,606 10,840 — — — 
United Kingdom 64 2,084,141 407,824 61 1,543,664 178,100 — — — 
Total international 161 4,131,206 813,1 19 67 1,684,270 188,940 — — — 
Grand total 721 $ 17,489,019 $ 3,791,415 624 $ 8,967,892 $ 1,107,627 306 $ 5,830,199 $ 633,845 
 Represents revenue for the month ended December 31, 2021 annualized.(1) (1) (1)
(1)
41
The following table sets forth occupancy and average annualized revenues for certain property types (excluding investments in unconsolidated entities):
 Occupancy Average Annualized Revenues  
 2021 2020 2021 2020  
Seniors Housing Operating 76.4% 75.9% $ 48,300 $ 48,749 per unit
Triple-net 73.0% 72.8% 19,675 17,604 per bed/unit
Outpatient Medical 95.4% 95.4% 37 36 per sq. ft.
 We use unaudited, periodic financial information provided solely by tenants/borrowers to calculate occupancy for properties other than Outpatient Medical buildings and have not independently verified the
information.
 Represents December annualized revenues divided by total beds, units or square feet in service, as presented in the tables above.
Occupancy represents average occupancy of properties in service for the three months ended December 31.
 Occupancy represents average quarterly operating occupancy based on the quarters ended September 30 and excludes properties that are unstabilized, closed or for which data is not available or meaningful.
 Occupancy represents the percentage of total rentable square feet leased and occupied (including month-to-month and holdover leases and excluding terminations) as of December 31.
The following table sets forth information regarding lease expirations for certain portions of our portfolio as of December 31, 2021 (dollars in thousands):
 Expiration Year
 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2031 Thereafter
Triple-net:            
Properties 57 3 4 28 64 18 14 14 23 16 367 
Base rent $ 6,751 $ 2,482 $ 12,110 $ 6,147 $ 67,063 $ 33,567 $ 15,549 $ 32,248 $ 43,027 $ 18,808 $ 377,212 
% of base rent 1.1 % 0.4 % 2.0 % 1.0 % 10.9 % 5.5 % 2.5 % 5.2 % 7.0 % 3.1 % 61.3 %
Units 6,071 304 692 1,759 4,878 2,350 1,474 1,214 2,439 2,008 36,991 
% of units 10.1 % 0.5 % 1.1 % 2.9 % 8.1 % 3.9 % 2.4 % 2.0 % 4.1 % 3.3 % 61.6 %
Outpatient Medical:            
Square feet 1,793,229 1,720,158 2,080,831 1,031,346 1,389,353 1,153,609 921,218 751,892 1,486,918 1,396,014 3,475,995 
Base rent $ 52,877 $ 48,606 $ 63,809 $ 29,253 $ 37,775 $ 30,380 $ 24,719 $ 21,395 $ 38,494 $ 37,905 $ 78,835 
% of base rent 11.4 % 10.5 % 13.8 % 6.3 % 8.1 % 6.5 % 5.3 % 4.6 % 8.3 % 8.2 % 17.0 %
Leases 404 369 354 218 255 175 126 83 102 80 151 
% of leases 17.4 % 15.9 % 15.3 % 9.4 % 11.0 % 7.6 % 5.4 % 3.6 % 4.4 % 3.5 % 6.5 %
 Excludes investments in unconsolidated entities, developments, land parcels, loans receivable and sub-leases. Investments classified as held for sale are included in 2022.
 The most recent monthly cash base rent annualized. Base rent does not include tenant recoveries or amortization of above and below market lease intangibles or other non cash income.
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
From time to time, there are various legal proceedings pending against us that arise in the ordinary course of our business.  Management does not believe that the
resolution of any of these legal proceedings either individually or in the aggregate will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial
condition. Further, from time to time, we are party to certain legal proceedings for which third parties, such as tenants, operators and/or managers are contractually
obligated to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless. In some of these matters, the indemnitors have insurance for the potential damages.  In other matters, we are being
defended by tenants and other obligated third parties and these indemnitors may not have sufficient insurance, assets, income or resources to satisfy their defense and
indemnification obligations to us. The unfavorable resolution of such legal proceedings could, individually or in the aggregate, materially adversely affect the
indemnitors’ ability to satisfy their respective obligations to us, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial
condition. It is management’s opinion that there are currently no such legal proceedings pending that will, individually or in the aggregate, have such a material adverse
effect. Despite management’s view of the ultimate resolution of these legal proceedings, we may have significant legal expenses and costs associated with the defense of
such matters. Further, management cannot predict the outcome of these legal proceedings and if management’s expectation regarding such matters is not correct, such
proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
None.(1) (2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(3) 
(4)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(2)
(1)
(2)
42
PART II
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:WELL). There were 3,147 stockholders of record as of February 4, 2022.
Stockholder Return Performance Presentation 
Set forth below is a line graph comparing the yearly percentage change and the cumulative total stockholder return on our shares of common stock against the
cumulative total return of the S & P Composite-500 Stock Index and the FTSE NAREIT Equity Index. As of December 31, 2021, 151 companies comprised the FTSE
NAREIT Equity Index, which consists of REITs identified by NAREIT as equity (those REITs which have at least 75% of their investments in real property). The data
are based on the closing prices as of December 31 for each of the five years. 2016 equals $100 and dividends are assumed to be reinvested.
 12/31/2016 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2019 12/31/2020 12/31/2021
S & P 500 $ 100.00 $ 121.83 $ 116.49 $ 153.17 $ 181.35 $ 233.41 
Welltower Inc. 100.00 100.20 115.53 142.14 117.29 160.66 
FTSE NAREIT Equity 100.00 105.23 100.36 126.45 116.34 166.64 
Except to the extent that we specifically incorporate this information by reference, the foregoing Stockholder Return Performance Presentation shall not be deemed
incorporated by reference by any general statement incorporating by reference this Annual Report on Form 10-K into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, or under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. This information shall not otherwise be deemed filed under such Acts.
On May 1, 2020, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program whereby we may repurchase up to $1 billion of common stock through December 31,
2021 (the "Repurchase Program"). Under this authorization, we are not required to purchase shares but may choose to do so in the open market or through private
transactions at times and amounts based on our evaluation of market conditions and other factors. We expect to finance any share repurchases under the Repurchase
Program using available cash and may use proceeds from borrowings or debt offerings. We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock during the three months
ended December 31, 2021.
43
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
PeriodTotal Number of Shares
PurchasedAverage Price Paid Per
ShareTotal Number of Shares Purchased
as Part of Publicly Announced
Repurchase ProgramMaximum Dollar Value of Shares that
May Yet Be Purchased Under the
Repurchase Program
October 1, 2021 through October 31, 2021 — $ — — $ — 
November 1, 2021 through November 30, 2021 — $ — — — 
December 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021 — $ — — — 
Totals — $ — — $ 992,348,000 
Item 6. [Reserved]
The selected financial data previously required by Item 301 of Regulation S-K has been omitted in reliance on SEC Release No. 33-10890.
44
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
  
Company Overview 46
Business Strategy 47
Key Transactions 48
Key Performance Indicators, Trends and Uncertainties 48
Corporate Governance 50
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
  
Sources and Uses of Cash 50
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 51
Contractual Obligations 51
Capital Structure 52
  
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  
Summary 53
Seniors Housing Operating 54
Triple-net 57
Outpatient Medical 59
Non-Segment/Corporate 61
  
OTHER
  
Non-GAAP Financial Measures 61
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 67
 
45
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following discussion and analysis is based primarily on the consolidated financial statements of Welltower Inc. presented in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) for the periods presented and should be read together with the notes thereto contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-
K. Other important factors are identified in “Item 1 — Business” and “Item 1A — Risk Factors” above.
Executive Summary
Company Overview
Welltower Inc. (NYSE:WELL), an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health care infrastructure. The Company invests
with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund the real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery models
and improve people’s wellness and overall health care experience. Welltower™, a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), owns interests in properties concentrated in
major, high-growth markets in the United States (U.S.), Canada and the United Kingdom (U.K.), consisting of seniors housing and post-acute communities and
outpatient medical properties. 
The following table summarizes our consolidated portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2021 (dollars in thousands):
  Percentage of Number of
Type of Property NOI NOI Properties
Seniors Housing Operating $ 683,906 34.7 % 721
Triple-net 841,122 42.6 % 624
Outpatient Medical 448,350 22.7 % 306
Totals $ 1,973,378 100.0 % 1,651 
 Represents consolidated net operating income ("NOI") and excludes our share of investments in unconsolidated entities. Entities in which we have a joint venture with a minority partner are shown at 100% of
the joint venture amount. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information and reconciliation.
The COVID-19 pandemic has had and may continue to have material and adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the future.
The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our operations and those of our operators and tenants will depend on future developments, which are highly
uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence, including the scope, severity and duration of the pandemic, the effectiveness of vaccines, the actions taken to contain
the pandemic or mitigate its impact and the direct and indirect economic effects of the pandemic and containment measures, the overall pace of recovery, among others.
Our Seniors Housing Operating revenues are dependent on occupancy. Spot occupancy has steadily increased in recent months, with 94% of communities open for
new admissions and nearly all communities allowing visitors, in-person tours and communal dining and activities as of December 31, 2021. Rapid distribution and a
high acceptance rate of COVID-19 vaccinations by residents within assisted living and memory care facilities in the U.S. and U.K. have resulted in a significant
decrease in total resident case counts across the portfolio from peak levels in mid-January 2021, however, resident case counts have increased in December 2021 as a
result of highly transmissible variants.
We have incurred increased operational costs as a result of the introduction of public health measures and other regulations affecting our properties, as well as
additional health and safety measures adopted by us and our operators related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including increases in labor, personal protective equipment
and sanitation. We expect total Seniors Housing Operating expenses to remain elevated during the pandemic and potentially beyond as these additional health and safety
measures become standard practice.
Our Triple-net operators are experiencing similar trends related to occupancy and operating costs as described above with respect to our Seniors Housing Operating
properties. However, long-term/post-acute care facilities are generally experiencing a higher degree of occupancy declines. These factors may continue to impact the
ability of our Triple-net operators to make contractual rent payments to us in the future. Many of our Triple-net operators received funds under the Coronavirus Aid
Relief, and Economic Security Act (“CARES Act”) Paycheck Protection Program and Provider Relief Fund.
During the year ended December 31, 2021, we collected approximately 94% of rent due from operators under Triple-net lease agreements (primarily seniors housing
and post-acute care facilities). No significant rent deferrals or rent concessions have been made during the year ended December 31, 2021. We evaluate leases
individually and recognize rent on a cash basis if collectibility of substantially all contractual rent payments is not probable. To the extent the prolonged impact of the
COVID-19 pandemic causes operators or tenants to seek further modifications of their lease agreements, we may recognize reductions in revenue and increases in
uncollectible receivables.
During the early stages of the pandemic in 2020, our Outpatient Medical tenants experienced temporary medical practice closures or decreases in revenue due to
government-imposed restrictions on elective medical procedures, stay at home orders or decisions by patients to delay treatments. In some instances, these factors
caused tenants to seek modifications of contractual(1)
(1)
46
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
rent obligations. We evaluated each request on a case-by-case basis to determine if a form of rent relief was warranted following an examination of the tenant's financial
health, rent coverage, current operating situation and other factors. Virtually all deferred rent related to 2020 deferrals has been paid. During the year ended December
31, 2021, we have continued to collect virtually all rent due from tenants in our Outpatient Medical portfolio, with uncollected amounts primarily attributable to local
jurisdictions with COVID-19 related ordinances providing temporary rent relief to tenants.
Business Strategy
Our primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders and create
opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of annual increases in NOI and portfolio growth. To meet these objectives, we invest across the
full spectrum of seniors housing and health care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type, relationship and geographic location.
Substantially all of our revenues are derived from operating lease rentals, resident fees and services and interest earned on outstanding loans receivable. These items
represent our primary sources of liquidity to fund distributions and depend upon the continued ability of our obligors to make contractual rent and interest payments to
us and the profitability of our operating properties. To the extent that our obligors/partners experience operating difficulties and become unable to generate sufficient
cash to make payments or operating distributions to us, there could be a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial
condition. To mitigate this risk, we monitor our investments through a variety of methods determined by the type of property. Our asset management process for seniors
housing properties generally includes review of monthly financial statements and other operating data for each property, review of obligor/partner creditworthiness,
property inspections and review of covenant compliance relating to licensure, real estate taxes, letters of credit and other collateral. Our internal property management
division manages and monitors the outpatient medical portfolio with a comprehensive process including review of tenant relations, lease expirations, the mix of health
service providers, hospital/health system relationships, property performance, capital improvement needs and market conditions among other things. We evaluate the
operating environment in each property’s market to determine the likely trend in operating performance of the facility. When we identify unacceptable trends, we seek to
mitigate, eliminate or transfer the risk. Through these efforts, we generally aim to intervene at an early stage to address any negative trends, and in so doing, support
both the collectability of revenue and the value of our investment.
In addition to our asset management and research efforts, we also aim to structure our relevant investments to mitigate payment risk. Operating leases and loans are
normally credit enhanced by guarantees and/or letters of credit. In addition, operating leases are typically structured as master leases and loans are generally cross-
defaulted and cross-collateralized with other real estate loans, operating leases or agreements between us and the obligor and its affiliates.
For the year ended December 31, 2021, resident fees and services and rental income represented 67% and 29%, respectively, of total revenues. Substantially all of our
operating leases are designed with escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial
lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash
rental payments due for the period. Our yield on loans receivable depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest rate, the average principal amount
outstanding during the term of the loan and any interest rate adjustments.
Our primary sources of cash include resident fees and services, rent and interest receipts, borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial
paper program, public issuances of debt and equity securities, proceeds from investment dispositions and principal payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of
cash include dividend distributions, debt service payments (including principal and interest), real property investments (including acquisitions, capital expenditures,
construction advances and transaction costs), loan advances, property operating expenses, general and administrative expenses and other expenses. Depending upon the
availability and cost of external capital, we believe our liquidity is sufficient to fund these uses of cash.
We also continuously evaluate opportunities to finance future investments. New investments are generally funded from temporary borrowings under our unsecured
revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, internally generated cash and the proceeds from investment dispositions. Our investments generate cash from
NOI and principal payments on loans receivable. Permanent financing for future investments, which replaces funds drawn under our unsecured revolving credit facility
and commercial paper program, has historically been provided through a combination of the issuance of public debt and equity securities and the incurrence or
assumption of secured debt.
Depending upon market conditions, we believe that new investments will be available in the future with spreads over our cost of capital that will generate appropriate
returns to our stockholders. It is also likely that investment dispositions may occur in the future. To the extent that investment dispositions exceed new investments, our
revenues and cash flows from operations could be adversely affected. We expect to reinvest the proceeds from any investment dispositions in new investments. To the
extent that new investment requirements exceed our available cash on-hand, we expect to borrow under our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper
program. At December 31, 2021, we had $269,265,000 of cash and cash equivalents, $77,490,000 of restricted cash and $3,675,000,000 of available borrowing capacity
under our unsecured revolving credit facility.
47
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Key Transactions
Capital  The following summarizes key capital transactions that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2021:
•In March 2021, we completed the issuance of $750,000,000 senior unsecured notes bearing interest at 2.80% with a maturity date of June 2031.
•In April 2021, we repaid our $339,128,000 of our 3.75% senior unsecured notes due March 2023, $334,624,000 of our 3.95% senior unsecured notes due
September 2023, and $15,000,000 of our term loan due April 2022.
•In June 2021, we closed on a new $4,700,000,000 unsecured credit facility with improved pricing across our line of credit and terminated the existing
unsecured credit facility. The credit facility includes $4,000,000,000 of revolving credit capacity at a borrowing rate of 77.5 basis points ("bps") over LIBOR,
$500,000,000 of USD term loan capacity at a borrowing rate of 90.0 bps over LIBOR and $250,000,000 CAD term loan capacity at 90.0 bps over CDOR.
•In June 2021, we repaid the remaining $845,000,000 of our term loan due April 2022.
•In June 2021, we completed the issuance of $500,000,000 senior unsecured notes bearing interest at 2.05% with a maturity date of January 2029.
•In July 2021, we entered into an amended and restated ATM Program (as defined below) pursuant to which we may offer and sell up to $2,500,000,000 of
common stock from time to time. During 2021, we sold 34,854,598 shares of common stock under our current and previous ATM Programs via forward sale
agreements which are expected to generate gross proceeds of approximately $2,820,855,000, of which 29,667,348 shares have been settled resulting in
$2,385,683,000 of gross proceeds during the year ended December 31, 2021.
•In November 2021, we completed the issuance of $500,000,000 senior unsecured notes bearing interest at 2.75% with a maturity date of January 2032.
•We extinguished $132,031,000 of secured debt at a blended average interest rate of 5.86% throughout 2021.
Investments The following summarizes property acquisitions and joint venture investments completed during the year ended December 31, 2021 (dollars in thousands):
 Properties Book Amount Capitalization Rates
Seniors Housing Operating 151 $ 3,138,988 5.1%
Triple-net 35 898,167 6.1%
Outpatient Medical 19 403,458 5.5%
Totals 205 $ 4,440,613 5.2%
 Represents amounts recorded in net real estate investments including fair value adjustments pursuant to U.S. GAAP. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
 Represents annualized contractual or projected NOI to be received in cash divided by investment amounts.
Dispositions The following summarizes property dispositions completed during the year ended December 31, 2021 (dollars in thousands):
 Properties Proceeds Book Amount Capitalization Rates
Seniors Housing Operating 12 $ 118,590 $ 112,837 4.8%
Triple-net 51 625,478 486,369 7.2%
Outpatient Medical 11 326,254 229,660 5.3%
Totals 74 $ 1,070,322 $ 828,866 6.4%
 Represents pro rata proceeds received upon disposition including any seller financing.
 Represents carrying value of net real estate assets at time of disposition. See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Represents annualized contractual income that was being received in cash at date of disposition divided by disposition proceeds.
Dividends Our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend for the quarter ended December 31, 2021 of $0.61 per share. On March 8, 2022, we will pay our 203
consecutive quarterly dividend payment to stockholders of record on March 1, 2022.
Key Performance Indicators, Trends and Uncertainties
We utilize several key performance indicators to evaluate the various aspects of our business. These indicators are discussed below and relate to operating
performance, credit strength and concentration risk. Management uses these key performance indicators to facilitate internal and external comparisons to our historical
operating results, in making operating decisions, and for budget planning purposes.(1) (2)
(1)
(2)
(1) (2) (3)
(1)
(2)
(3) 
rd
48
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Operating Performance We believe that net income and net income attributable to common stockholders (“NICS”) per the Consolidated Statements of
Comprehensive Income are the most appropriate earnings measures. Other useful supplemental measures of our operating performance include funds from operations
attributable to common stockholders (“FFO”) and consolidated net operating income (“NOI”); however, these supplemental measures are not defined by U.S. GAAP.
Please refer to the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for further discussion and reconciliations. These earnings measures are widely used by investors
and analysts in the valuation, comparison and investment recommendations of companies. The following table reflects the recent historical trends of our operating
performance measures for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019
Net income $ 374,479 $ 1,038,852 $ 1,330,410 
Net income attributable to common stockholders 336,138 978,844 1,232,432 
Funds from operations attributable to common stockholders 1,220,722 1,102,562 1,577,080 
Consolidated net operating income 1,967,553 2,008,144 2,431,264 
Credit Strength We measure our credit strength both in terms of leverage ratios and coverage ratios. The leverage ratios indicate how much of our balance sheet
capitalization is related to long-term debt, net of cash and restricted cash. The coverage ratios indicate our ability to service interest and fixed charges (interest and
secured debt principal amortization). We expect to maintain capitalization ratios and coverage ratios sufficient to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current
profile. The coverage ratios are based on adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“Adjusted EBITDA”). Please refer to the section
entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for further discussion and reconciliation of these measures. Leverage ratios and coverage ratios are widely used by investors,
analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, investment recommendations and rating of companies. The following table reflects the recent historical trends
for our credit strength measures for the periods presented:
 Year Ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019
Net debt to book capitalization ratio 42.2% 40.8% 46.3%
Net debt to undepreciated book capitalization ratio 34.9% 33.8% 39.2%
Net debt to market capitalization ratio 25.9% 29.6% 29.5%
Adjusted interest coverage ratio 3.89x 3.97x 4.14x
Adjusted fixed char ge coverage ratio 3.43x 3.54x 3.78x
Concentration Risk We evaluate our concentration risk in terms of NOI by property mix, relationship mix and geographic mix. Concentration risk is a valuable
measure in understanding what portion of our NOI could be at risk if certain sectors were to experience downturns. Property mix measures the portion of our NOI that
relates to our various property types. Relationship mix measures the portion of our NOI that relates to our current top five relationships. Geographic mix measures the
portion of our NOI that relates to our current top five states (or international equivalents). The following table reflects our recent historical trends of concentration risk
by NOI for the years indicated below:
 December 31,
 2021 2020 2019
Property mix:    
 Seniors Housing Operating 35% 38% 43%
 Triple-net 43% 37% 38%
 Outpatient Medical 22% 25% 19%
Relationship mix:    
 ProMedica 12% 11% 9%
Sunrise Senior Living 10% 13% 14%
 Revera 5% 5% 6%
 Avery Healthcare 4% 4% 3%
 HC-One Group 3% —% —%
 Remaining 66% 67% 68%
Geographic mix:    
 California 13% 14% 13%
 United Kingdom 13% 10% 8%
 Texas 8% 9% 8%
 Canada 6% 6% 7%
 New Jersey 6% 5% 7%
 Remaining 54% 56% 57%
 Excludes our share of investments in unconsolidated entities and non-segment/corporate NOI. Entities in which we have a joint venture with a minority partner are shown at 100% of the joint venture amount.(1)
(2)
(2)
(1)
49
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 Revera owns a controlling interest in Sunrise Senior Living.
We evaluate our key performance indicators in conjunction with current expectations to determine if historical trends are indicative of future results. Our expected
results may not be achieved and actual results may differ materially from our expectations. Factors that may cause actual results to differ from expected results are
described in more detail in “Item 1 — Business — Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and “Item 1A — Risk Factors” and other sections of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Management regularly monitors economic and other factors to develop strategic and tactical plans designed to improve performance
and maximize our competitive position. Our ability to achieve our financial objectives is dependent upon our ability to effectively execute these plans and to
appropriately respond to emerging economic and company-specific trends. Please refer to “Item 1 — Business,” “Item 1A — Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K for further discussion of these risk factors.
Corporate Governance
Maintaining investor confidence and trust is important in today’s business environment. Our Board of Directors and management are strongly committed to policies
and procedures that reflect the highest level of ethical business practices. Our corporate governance guidelines provide the framework for our business operations and
emphasize our commitment to increase stockholder value while meeting all applicable legal requirements. These guidelines meet the listing standards adopted by the
New York Stock Exchange and are available on the Internet at www.welltower.com/investors/governance. The information on our website is not incorporated by
reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference only.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Sources and Uses of Cash
Our primary sources of cash include resident fees and services, rent and interest receipts, borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial
paper program, public issuances of debt and equity securities, proceeds from investment dispositions and principal payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of
cash include dividend distributions, debt service payments (including principal and interest), real property investments (including acquisitions, capital expenditures,
construction advances and transaction costs), loan advances, property operating expenses, general and administrative expenses and other expenses. These sources and
uses of cash are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and are discussed in further detail below. The following is a summary of our sources and uses
of cash flows for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
 December 31, December 31,   December 31,     
 2021 2020 $ % 2019 $ % $ %
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash
at beginning of period $ 2,021,043 $ 385,766 $ 1,635,277 424 %$ 316,129 $ 69,637 22 %$ 1,704,914 539 %
Net cash provided from (used in):  
Operating activities 1,275,325 1,364,756 (89,431) -7 % 1,535,968 (171,212) -11 % (260,643) -17 %
Investing activities (4,516,268) 2,347,928 (6,864,196) n/a (2,048,791) 4,396,719 n/a (2,467,477) 120 %
Financing activities 1,567,664 (2,080,858) 3,648,522 n/a 577,150 (2,658,008) n/a 990,514 172 %
Effect of foreign currency translation (1,009) 3,451 (4,460) n/a 5,310 (1,859) -35 % (6,319) n/a
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash
at end of period $ 346,755 $ 2,021,043 $ (1,674,288) -83 %$ 385,766 $ 1,635,277 424 %$ (39,011) -10 %
Operating Activities The changes in net cash provided from operating activities are primarily attributable to declines in revenue as a result of decreased occupancy at
our Seniors Housing Operating properties, straight-line receivable reserves related to Triple-net leases during the year ended December 31, 2021 and dispositions. Please
see “Results of Operations” for discussion of net income fluctuations. For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, cash flows from operations exceeded
cash distributions to stockholders.
Investing Activities  The changes in net cash provided from/used in investing activities are primarily attributable to net changes in real property investments and
dispositions, loans receivable and investments in unconsolidated entities which are summarized above in “Key Transactions.” Please refer to Notes 3 and 5 of our
consolidated financial statements for additional information. The following is a summary of cash used in non-acquisition capital improvement activities for the periods
presented (dollars in thousands):(2)
50
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
 December 31, December 31,   December 31,     
 2021 2020 $ % 2019 $ % $ %
New development $ 417,963 $ 201,336 $ 216,627 108 %$ 323,488 $ (122,152) -38 %$ 94,475 29 %
Recurring capital expenditures, tenant
improvements and lease commissions 99,994 83,146 16,848 20 % 136,535 (53,389) -39 % (36,541) -27 %
Renovations, redevelopments and other
capital improvements 182,594 161,843 20,751 13 % 192,289 (30,446) -16 % (9,695) -5 %
Total $ 700,551 $ 446,325 $ 254,226 57 %$ 652,312 $ (205,987) -32 %$ 48,239 7 %
The change in new development is primarily due to the number and size of construction projects on-going during the relevant periods. Renovations, redevelopments
and other capital improvements include expenditures to maximize property value, increase net operating income, maintain a market-competitive position and/or achieve
property stabilization. 
Financing Activities The changes in net cash provided from/used in financing activities are primarily attributable to changes related to our long-term debt
arrangements, the issuances of common stock and dividend payments which are summarized above in “Key Transactions.” Please refer to Notes 10, 11 and 14 of our
consolidated financial statements for additional information.
In March 2021, we completed the issuance of $750,000,000 senior unsecured notes with a maturity date of June 2031. In June 2021, we completed the issuance of
$500,000,000 senior unsecured notes with a maturity date of January 2029. Net proceeds from these debt issuances were used to redeem the remaining $339,128,000 of
our 3.75% senior unsecured notes due 2023, $334,624,000 of our 3.95% senior unsecured notes due 2023, and $860,000,000 remaining on our term loan due April
2022. In June 2021, we closed on a new $4,700,000,000 unsecured credit facility. The credit facility includes $4,000,000,000 of revolving credit capacity. In November
2021, we completed the issuance of $500,000,000 senior unsecured notes with a maturity date of January 2032. As of December 31, 2021, we have total near-term
available liquidity of approximately $4.0 billion.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
At December 31, 2021, we had investments in unconsolidated entities with our ownership generally ranging from 10% to 65%. We use financial derivative
instruments to hedge interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate exposure. At December 31, 2021, we had 15 outstanding letter of credit obligations. Please see
Notes 8, 12 and 13 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Contractual Obligations
51
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following table summarizes our payment requirements under contractual obligations as of December 31, 2021 (in thousands):
 Payments Due by Period
Contractual Obligations Total 2022 2023-2024 2025-2026 Thereafter
Unsecured credit facility and commercial paper $ 325,000 $ 325,000 $ — $ — $ — 
Senior unsecured notes and term credit facilities:
U.S. Dollar senior unsecured notes 9,350,000 — 1,350,000 1,950,000 6,050,000 
     Canadian Dollar senior unsecured notes 234,797 — — — 234,797 
     Pounds Sterling senior unsecured notes 1,417,500 — — — 1,417,500 
U.S. Dollar term credit facility 510,000 — 500,000 10,000 — 
     Canadian Dollar term credit facility 195,664 — 195,664 — — 
Secured debt:     
Consolidated 2,202,312 582,884 733,426 267,754 618,248 
     Unconsolidated  1,247,746 149,218 291,969 546,525 260,034 
Contractual interest obligations:     
Unsecured credit facility and commercial paper 65 65 — — — 
     Senior unsecured notes and term loans 3,815,957 427,904 826,167 648,580 1,913,306 
     Consolidated secured debt 245,383 61,444 78,218 48,135 57,586 
     Unconsolidated secured debt 188,244 40,244 68,709 26,931 52,360 
Finance lease liabilities 210,857 8,698 71,634 3,354 127,171 
Operating lease liabilities 1,383,350 45,151 91,850 87,301 1,159,048 
Purchase obligations 1,378,920 826,122 534,849 5,533 12,416 
Total contractual obligations $ 22,705,795 $ 2,466,730 $ 4,742,486 $ 3,594,1 13 $ 11,902,466 
 Amounts represent principal amounts due and do not reflect unamortized premiums/discounts or other fair value adjustments as reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 Based on foreign currency exchange rates in effect as of balance sheet date.
 Based on variable interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2021.
 See Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
 See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Capital Structure
Please refer to “Credit Strength” above for a discussion of our leverage and coverage ratio trends. Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and
events of default. Certain agreements require us to maintain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness,
create liens and make investments or acquisitions. As of December 31, 2021, we were in compliance in all material respects with the covenants under our debt
agreements. None of our debt agreements contain provisions for acceleration which could be triggered by our debt ratings. However, under our primary unsecured credit
facility, the ratings on our senior unsecured notes are used to determine the fees and interest charged. We plan to manage the company to maintain compliance with our
debt covenants and with a capital structure consistent with our current profile. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could
have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity
and/or financial condition.
On May 4, 2021, we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) (1) an open-ended automatic or “universal” shelf registration statement on Form
S-3 covering an indeterminate amount of future offerings of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants and units to replace our existing
“universal” shelf registration statement filed with the SEC on May 17, 2018, and (2) a registration statement in connection with our enhanced dividend reinvestment
plan (“DRIP”) under which we may issue up to 15,000,000 shares of common stock to replace our existing DRIP registration statement on Form S-3 filed with the SEC
on May 17, 2018. As of February 4, 2022, 15,000,000 shares of common stock remained available for issuance under the DRIP registration statement. On July 30, 2021,
we entered into (i) an amended and restated equity distribution agreement (the “EDA”) with each of Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Barclays Capital Inc., BMO
Capital Markets Corp., BNP Paribas Securities Corp., BNY Mellon Capital Markets, LLC, BofA Securities, Inc., BOK Financial Securities, Inc., Capital One Securities
Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Comerica Securities, Inc., Credit Agricole Securities (USA) Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Fifth Third Securities, Inc.,
Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, Hancock Whitney Investment Services, Inc., Jefferies LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Loop(1)
(1)
(2)
(2)
(2)
(1,2)
(3)
(2)
(2)
(2)
(4)
(4)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
52
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Capital Markets LLC, Mizuho Securities USA LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, MUFG Securities Americas Inc., RBC Capital Markets, LLC, Regions Securities
LLC, Scotia Capital (USA) Inc., SMBC Nikko Securities America, Inc., Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Synovus Securities, Inc., TD Securities (USA) LLC,
Truist Securities, Inc. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC relating to the offer and sale from time to time of up to $2,500,000,000 aggregate amount of our common stock
and (ii) separate master forward sale confirmations with each of Bank of America, N.A., Bank of Montreal, The Bank of New York Mellon, Barclays Bank PLC, BNP
Paribas, Citibank, N.A., Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, Jefferies LLC, JPMorgan
Chase Bank, National Association, KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Mizuho Markets Americas LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, MUFG Securities EMEA plc, Royal
Bank of Canada, The Bank of Nova Scotia, The Toronto-Dominion Bank, Truist Bank, London Branch and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (together with the
EDA, the “ATM Program”), amending and restating the ATM Program entered into on May 4, 2021 to, among other amendments, increase the total amount of shares of
common stock that may be offered and sold under the ATM Program from $2,000,000,000 to $2,500,000,000, which amount excludes shares the Company has
previously sold pursuant to the prior program. The ATM Program also allows us to enter into forward sale agreements. As of February 4, 2022, we had $1,876,085,000
of remaining capacity under the ATM Program, which excludes forward sales agreements outstanding for the sale of 10,924,956 shares or approximately $930,610,000
with maturity dates in 2022. We expect to physically settle the forward sales for cash proceeds. Depending upon market conditions, we anticipate issuing securities
under our registration statements to invest in additional properties and to repay borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program.
In connection with the filing of the new “universal” shelf registration statement, the Company also filed with the SEC two prospectus supplements that will continue
offerings that were previously covered by prospectus supplements and the accompanying prospectus to the prior registration statement relating to: (i) the registration and
possible issuance of up to 620,731 shares of the Company’s common stock (the “DownREIT Shares”), that may be issued from time to time if, and to the extent that,
certain holders of Class A units (the “DownREIT Units”) of HCN G&L DownREIT, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the “DownREIT”), tender such
DownREIT Units for redemption by the DownREIT, and HCN DownREIT Member, LLC, a majority-owned indirect subsidiary of the Company (including its
permitted successors and assigns, the “Managing Member”), or a designated affiliate of the Managing Member, elects to assume the redemption obligations of the
DownREIT and to satisfy all or a portion of the redemption consideration by issuing DownREIT Shares to the holders instead of or in addition to paying a cash amount;
and (ii) the registration and possible issuance of up to 475,327 shares common stock (the “DownREIT II Shares”), that may be issued from time to time if, and to the
extent that, certain holders of Class A units (the “DownREIT II Units,” and collectively with the DownREIT Units, the “Units”) of HCN G&L DownREIT II LLC, a
Delaware limited liability company (the “DownREIT II”), tender such DownREIT II Units for redemption by the DownREIT II, and the Managing Member, or a
designated affiliate of the Managing Member, elects to assume the redemption obligations of the DownREIT II and to satisfy all or a portion of the redemption
consideration by issuing DownREIT II Shares to the holders instead of or in addition to paying a cash amount.
Results of Operations
Summary
Our primary sources of revenue include resident fees and services, rent and interest income. Our primary expenses include property operating expenses, depreciation
and amortization, interest expense, general and administrative expenses, and other expenses. We evaluate our business and make resource allocations on our three
business segments: Seniors Housing Operating, Triple-net and Outpatient Medical. The primary performance measures for our properties are NOI and same store NOI
(SSNOI) and other supplemental measures include FFO and Adjusted EBITDA, which are further discussed below. Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures for
additional information and reconciliations related to these supplemental measures. 
This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses 2021 and 2020 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020. Discussions of 2019 items and year-
to-year comparisons between 2020 and 2019 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020.
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the periods presented (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):
53
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
 December 31, December 31,   December 31,     
 2021 2020 Amount % 2019 Amount % Amount %
Net income $ 374,479 $ 1,038,852 $ (664,373) -64 %$ 1,330,410 $ (291,558) -22 %$ (955,931) -72 %
NICS 336,138 978,844 (642,706) -66 % 1,232,432 (253,588) -21 % (896,294) -73 %
FFO 1,220,722 1,102,562 118,160 11 % 1,577,080 (474,518) -30 % (356,358) -23 %
Adjusted EBITDA 1,913,546 2,048,412 (134,866) -7 % 2,328,202 (279,790) -12 % (414,656) -18 %
Consolidated NOI 1,967,553 2,008,144 (40,591) -2 % 2,431,264 (423,120) -17 % (463,711) -19 %
Per share data (fully diluted):       
Net income attributable to common
stockholders $ 0.78 $ 2.33 $ (1.55) -67 %$ 3.05 $ (0.72) -24 %$ (2.27) -74 %
Funds from operations attributable to
common stockholders $ 2.86 $ 2.64 $ 0.22 8 %$ 3.91 $ (1.27) -32 %$ (1.05) -27 %
Adjusted interest coverage ratio 3.89x 3.97x -0.08x -2 % 4.14x -0.17x -4 % -0.25x -6 %
Adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio 3.43x 3.54x -0.11x -3 % 3.78x -0.24x -6 % -0.35x -9 %
(1) Includes adjustment to the numerator for income (loss) attributable to OP unitholders.
The following table represents the changes in outstanding common stock for the period from January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2021 (in thousands):
 Year Ended  
 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Totals
Beginning balance $ 417,401 $ 410,257 $ 383,675 $ 383,675 
Dividend reinvestment plan issuances — 264 5,799 6,063 
Preferred stock conversions — — 12,712 12,712 
Option exercises 338 — 11 11 
ATM Program issuances 29,667 6,800 7,856 44,323 
Repurchase of common stock — (202) — (202)
Other , net 171 282 204 657 
Ending balance $ 447,239 $ 417,401 $ 410,257 $ 447,239 
Weighted average number of shares outstanding:    
Basic 424,976 415,451 401,845  
Diluted 426,841 417,387 403,808  
During the past three years, inflation has not significantly affected our earnings because of the moderate inflation rate. Additionally, a portion of our earnings are
derived primarily from long-term investments with predictable rates of return. These investments are mainly financed with a combination of equity, senior unsecured
notes, secured debt and borrowings under our primary unsecured credit facility. During inflationary periods, which generally are accompanied by rising interest rates,
our ability to grow may be adversely affected because the yield on new investments may increase at a slower rate than new borrowing costs.
Seniors Housing Operating 
The following is a summary of our SSNOI at Welltower's Share for the Seniors Housing Operating segment (dollars in thousands):
 QTD Pool YTD Pool
Three Months Ended Change Year Ended Change
 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 $ % December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 $ %
SSNOI $ 136,344 $ 144,197 $ (7,853) -5.4 % $ 543,755 $ 652,823 $ (109,068) -16.7 %
 Relates to 489 properties for the QTD Pool and 477 properties for the YTD Pool. Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information and reconciliations.
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the Seniors Housing Operating segment for the years presented (dollars in thousands):(1)
(1)
(1)
54
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
  December 31, December 31,   December 31,     
  2021 2020 $ % 2019 $ % $ %
Revenues:          
 Resident fees and services $ 3,197,223 $ 3,074,022 $ 123,201 4 % $ 3,448,175 $ (374,153) -11 % $ (250,952) -7 %
 Interest income 4,231 618 3,613 585 % 36 582 n/a 4,195 n/a
 Other income 11,796 7,223 4,573 63 % 8,658 (1,435) -17 % 3,138 36 %
 Total revenues 3,213,250 3,081,863 131,387 4 % 3,456,869 (375,006) -11 % (243,619) -7 %
Property operating expenses 2,529,344 2,326,311 203,033 9 % 2,417,349 (91,038) -4 % 111,995 5 %
 NOI 683,906 755,552 (71,646) -9 % 1,039,520 (283,968) -27 % (355,614) -34 %
Other expenses:    n/a
 Depreciation and amortization 593,565 544,462 49,103 9 % 553,189 (8,727) -2 % 40,376 7 %
 Interest expense 39,327 54,901 (15,574) -28 % 67,983 (13,082) -19 % (28,656) -42 %
 Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net (2,628) 12,659 (15,287) -121 % 1,614 11,045 684 % (4,242) -263 %
Provision for loan losses, net 394 671 (277) -41 % — 671 n/a 394 n/a
 Impairment of assets 22,317 100,741 (78,424) -78 % 2,145 98,596 n/a 20,172 940 %
 Other expenses 27,132 14,265 12,867 90 % 26,348 (12,083) -46 % 784 3 %
 680,107 727,699 (47,592) -7 % 651,279 76,420 12 % 28,828 4 %
Income (loss) from continuing operations before income
taxes and other items 3,799 27,853 (24,054) -86 % 388,241 (360,388) -93 % (384,442) -99 %
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities (39,225) (33,857) (5,368) -16 % 12,388 (46,245) -373 % (51,613) -417 %
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 6,146 328,249 (322,103) -98 % 528,747 (200,498) -38 % (522,601) -99 %
Income from continuing operations (29,280) 322,245 (351,525) -109 % 929,376 (607,131) -65 % (958,656) -103 %
Net income (loss) (29,280) 322,245 (351,525) -109 % 929,376 (607,131) -65 % (958,656) -103 %
Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling
interests (2,224) 20,301 (22,525) -111 % 56,513 (36,212) -64 % (58,737) -104 %
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ (27,056)$ 301,944 $ (329,000) -109 % $ 872,863 $ (570,919) -65 % $ (899,919) -103 %
  See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below.
Resident fees and services and property operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased compared to the prior year primarily due to acquisitions,
including the acquisition of the Holiday Retirement portfolio on July 30, 2021 for a total purchase price of $1.6 billion. The increases were partially offset by decreases
in spot occupancy across the portfolio due to the COVID-19 pandemic and property dispositions. Spot occupancy remains below pre-pandemic levels but has steadily
increased in recent months, with 94% of communities open for new admissions and nearly all communities allowing visitors, in-person tours and communal dining and
activities as of December 31, 2021. Rapid distribution and a high acceptance rate of COVID-19 vaccinations by residents within assisted living and memory care
facilities in the U.S. and U.K. have resulted in a significant decrease in total resident case counts across the portfolio from peak levels in mid-January 2021, however,
resident case counts have increased in December 2021 as a result of highly transmissible variants. As of December 31, 2021, occupancy has increased approximately
510 bps to 77.7% since the pandemic-low of 72.6% on March 12, 2021. Quarterly spot occupancy rates through December 31, 2021 are as follows:
December 31, 2020 March 31, 2021 June 30, 2021 September 30, 2021 December 31, 2021
Spot occupancy 74.9 % 72.9 % 74.8 % 76.9 % 77.7 %
Sequential occupancy change (1.9) % 1.9 % 2.1 % 0.7 %
Spot occupancy represents approximate month end occupancy at our share for 546 properties in operation as of December 31, 2020, including unconsolidated properties but excluding acquisitions, executed
dispositions, development conversions and one property closed for redevelopment.
Sequential occupancy changes are based on actual spot occupancy and may not recalculate due to rounding.
During the year ended December 31, 2021, the U.S. and U.K. portfolios reported spot occupancy gains of approximately 490 bps and 80 bps, respectively. Canada
reported a spot occupancy decline of approximately 290 bps.
On March 27, 2020, the federal government enacted CARES Act to provide financial aid to individuals, businesses, and state and local governments. During the years
ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we received government grants under the CARES Act primarily to cover increased expenses and lost revenue during the COVID-
19 pandemic, as well as under similar programs in the U.K. and Canada. Grant income is recognized when there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received
and the Company will comply with all conditions attached to the grant. Additionally, grants are recognized over the periods in which the Company recognizes the
increased expenses and lost revenue the grants are intended to defray. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 we recognized $97,933,000 and $31,927,000,
respectively, of government grant income as a reduction to property operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. Additionally, for the
years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we recognized $4,642,000 and $3,014,000, respectively, of government grant income in other income. The amount of
qualifying expenditures and lost revenue exceeded grant income recognized and the Company believes it has complied and will continue to comply with all grant
conditions.(1)
(1)
(1)
(2)
(1) 
(2) 
55
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Property-level operating expenses associated with the COVID-19 pandemic relating to our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio totaled $63,681,000 and
$110,719,000 for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. These expenses were incurred as a result of the introduction of public health measures and
other regulations affecting our properties, as well as additional health and safety measures adopted by us and our operators related to the COVID-19 pandemic,
including increases in labor and property cleaning expenses and expenditures related to our efforts to procure personal protective equipment ("PPE") and supplies, net of
reimbursements. Specifically in 2021, we incurred elevated labor expenses resulting from the increased utilization of contract labor due to the rise in occupancy and a
challenging labor market.
During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded impairment charges of $22,317,000 related to two held for use properties in which the carrying value
exceeded the estimated fair value. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded impairment charges of $100,741,000 related to 15 held for sale or sold
properties and six held for use properties. Transaction costs related to asset acquisitions are capitalized as a component of the purchase price. The fluctuation in other
expenses is primarily due to the timing of noncapitalizable transaction costs associated with acquisitions and operator transitions. Changes in the gain on sales of
properties are related to the volume and timing of property sales and the sales prices. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized a gain on real estate
disposition of $312,249,000 related to an 11 property U.S. portfolio.
Depreciation and amortization fluctuates as a result of acquisitions, disposition and transitions. To the extent we acquire or dispose of additional properties in the
future, our provision for depreciation and amortization will change accordingly.
During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed two Seniors Housing Operating construction projects representing $117,386,000 or $553,573 per unit. The
following is a summary of our consolidated Seniors Housing Operating construction projects, excluding expansions, pending as of December 31, 2021 (dollars in
thousands):
Location Units/Beds Commitment Balance Est. Completion
Hendon, UK 102 $ 74,925 $ 68,823 1Q22
Barnet, UK 100 69,930 60,722 1Q22
Geor getown, TX 188 36,215 14,082 2Q22
New Rochelle, NY 72 42,669 13,186 3Q22
Sachse, TX 193 38,054 12,693 3Q22
Princeton, NJ 80 29,780 25,167 3Q22
Pflugerville, TX 196 39,500 10,543 4Q22
Denton, TX 65 20,194 5,245 4Q22
Berea, OH 120 14,934 10,714 4Q22
Painesville, OH 119 14,462 8,912 4Q22
Beaver , PA 116 14,184 7,706 4Q22
Lake Jackson, TX 130 32,020 3,726 2Q23
White Marsh, MD 188 78,610 7,620 3Q23
Weymouth, MA 165 77,545 10,188 3Q23
Miami Twp, OH 122 18,206 2,071 4Q23
Charlotte, NC 328 96,416 31,520 1Q24
Gaithersbur g, MD 302 173,548 25,986 2Q24
Temple, TX 245 65,569 5,290 4Q24
Kyle, TX 225 62,700 4,457 1Q25
3,056 $ 999,461 328,651  
Boise, ID 33,216 
Brookhaven, GA 10,439 
Brookline, MA 30,732 
Columbus, OH 13,170 
Raleigh, NC 3,508 
Toronto, ON 49,901 
Washington, DC 31,276 
Wellesley , MA 9,132 
$ 510,025 
Final units/beds, commitment amount and expected conversion date not yet known.
Interest expense represents secured debt interest expense, which fluctuates based on the net effect and timing of assumptions, segment transitions, fluctuations in
foreign currency rates, extinguishments and principal amortizations. The fluctuations in loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt is primarily attributable to the volume of
extinguishments and terms of the related secured debt. The following is a summary of our Seniors Housing Operating segment property secured debt principal activity
(dollars in thousands):(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1) 
56
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended
December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.
 Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate
Beginning balance $ 1,706,189 3.05% $ 2,115,037 3.54% $ 1,810,587 3.87%
Debt issued 23,569 2.83% 62,055 2.55% 343,696 3.11%
Debt assumed — —% — —% 183,061 4.58%
Debt extinguished (77,959) 6.14% (441,208) 2.18% (219,864) 4.28%
Debt transferred out — —% — —% (12,072) 3.89%
Principal payments (50,603) 3.03% (48,498) 3.30% (43,997) 3.45%
Foreign currency (1,674) 2.67% 18,803 2.93% 53,626 3.33%
Ending balance $ 1,599,522 2.81% $ 1,706,189 3.05% $ 2,115,037 3.54%
Monthly averages $ 1,649,485 2.88% $ 1,875,910 3.19% $ 1,966,892 3.70%
The majority of our Seniors Housing Operating properties are formed through partnership interests. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests represents our
partners’ share of net income (loss) related to joint ventures. The decrease compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 relates primarily to our partners' share of
gains on real estate dispositions during that year.
Triple-net 
The following is a summary of our SSNOI at Welltower's Share for the Triple-net segment (dollars in thousands):
 QTD Pool YTD Pool
Three Months Ended Change Year Ended Change
 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 $ % December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 $ %
SSNOI $ 148,507 $ 144,131 $ 4,376 3.0 % $ 569,484 $ 570,796 $ (1,312) -0.2 %
 Relates to 554 properties for the QTD Pool and 547 properties for the YTD Pool. Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information and reconciliations.
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the Triple-net segment for the years presented (dollars in thousands):
  Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
  December 31, December 31,   December 31,     
  2021 2020 $ % 2019 $ % $ %
Revenues:          
 Rental income $ 761,441 $ 733,776 $ 27,665 4 % $ 903,798 $ (170,022) -19 % $ (142,357) -16 %
 Interest income 124,540 62,625 61,915 99 % 62,599 26 — % 61,941 99 %
 Other income 4,603 4,903 (300) -6 % 6,246 (1,343) -22 % (1,643) -26 %
 Total revenues 890,584 801,304 89,280 11 % 972,643 (171,339) -18 % (82,059) -8 %
Property operating expenses 49,462 53,183 (3,721) -7 % 53,900 (717) -1 % (4,438) -8 %
 NOI 841,122 748,121 93,001 12 % 918,743 (170,622) -19 % (77,621) -8 %
Other expenses:    
 Depreciation and amortization 220,699 232,604 (11,905) -5 % 232,626 (22) — % (11,927) -5 %
 Interest expense 6,376 9,477 (3,101) -33 % 12,892 (3,415) -26 % (6,516) -51 %
 Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net (7,333) 11,049 (18,382) -166 % (4,399) 15,448 351 % (2,934) -67 %
 Provision for loan losses, net 10,339 90,563 (80,224) -89 % 18,690 71,873 385 % (8,351) -45 %
 Impairment of assets 26,579 34,867 (8,288) -24 % 11,926 22,941 192 % 14,653 123 %
 Other expenses 4,189 22,923 (18,734) -82 % 13,771 9,152 66 % (9,582) -70 %
  260,849 401,483 (140,634) -35 % 285,506 115,977 41 % (24,657) -9 %
Income from continuing operations before income taxes
and other items 580,273 346,638 233,635 67 % 633,237 (286,599) -45 % (52,964) -8 %
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities 20,687 18,462 2,225 12 % 22,985 (4,523) -20 % (2,298) -10 %
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 135,881 64,288 71,593 111 % 218,322 (154,034) -71 % (82,441) -38 %
Income from continuing operations 736,841 429,388 307,453 72 % 874,544 (445,156) -51 % (137,703) -16 %
Net income 736,841 429,388 307,453 72 % 874,544 (445,156) -51 % (137,703) -16 %
Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 35,653 39,985 (4,332) -11 % 36,271 3,714 10 % (618) -2 %
Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 701,188 $ 389,403 $ 311,785 80 % $ 838,273 $ (448,870) -54 % $ (137,085) -16 %
 See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below.(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
57
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Rental income has increased primarily due to the timing of the establishment of reserves for straight-line rent receivable balances relating to leases for which
collection of substantially all contractual lease payments is no longer deemed probable. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded reserves for previously
recognized straight-line rent receivables of $49,241,000. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded $146,508,000, which included $91,025,000 related to
Genesis Healthcare ("Genesis") whom noted substantial doubt as to their ability to continue as a going concern.
Certain of our leases contain annual rental escalators that are contingent upon changes in the Consumer Price Index and/or changes in the gross operating revenues of
the tenant’s properties. These escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental income is recorded based on the contractual cash rental
payments due for the period. If gross operating revenues at our facilities and/or the Consumer Price Index do not increase, a portion of our revenues may not continue to
increase. For the three months ended December 31, 2021, we had ten leases with rental rate increasers ranging from 2.00% to 5.94% in our Triple-net portfolio. Our
Triple-net operators are experiencing similar impacts on occupancy and operating costs due to the COVID-19 pandemic as described above with respect to our Seniors
Housing Operating properties. However, long-term/post-acute facilities have generally experienced a higher degree of occupancy declines, which in some cases
impacted the ability of our Triple-net operators to make contractual rent payments to us. However, many of our Triple-net operators received funds under the CARES
Act Paycheck Protection Program and Provider Relief Fund. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we collected approximately 94% of rent due from operators
under Triple-net lease agreements (primarily seniors housing and post-acute care facilities). No significant deferrals or rent concessions have been made. We evaluate
leases individually and recognize rent on a cash basis if collectibility of substantially all contractual rent payments is not probable.
Depreciation and amortization fluctuate as a result of the acquisitions, dispositions and transitions of triple-net properties. To the extent we acquire or dispose of
additional properties in the future, our provision for depreciation and amortization will change accordingly.
During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recognized a provision for loan losses under the current expected credit losses accounting standard, primarily related to
the initial recognition of the £540 million of senior loan financings to affiliates of Safanad as part of the recapitalization of its investment in HC-One Group during the
second quarter. The increase to interest income is primarily driven by interest recognized on this loan funding. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2020,
we recognized a provision for loan losses of $90,563,000, of which $80,873,000 represents additional reserves as a result of the current collateral estimate related to the
Genesis outstanding loans.
During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded impairment charges of $26,579,000 related to four held for sale or sold properties and two held for use
properties. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded impairment charges of $34,867,000 related to one held for sale and four held for use properties.
Transaction costs related to asset acquisitions are capitalized as a component of purchase price. The fluctuation in other expenses is primarily due to noncapitalizable
transaction costs from acquisitions and segment transitions. Changes in the gain on sales of properties are related to the volume and timing of property sales and the
sales prices.
During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed one Triple-net construction project representing $22,990,000 or $280,366 per unit. The following is a
summary of our consolidated Triple-net construction projects, excluding expansions, pending as of December 31, 2021 (dollars in thousands):
Location Units/Beds Commitment Balance Est. Completion
Redhill, UK 76 $ 21,465 $ 18,347 1Q22
London, UK 82 43,559 22,981 2Q22
Wombourne, UK 66 16,200 10,422 4Q22
Leicester , UK 60 15,120 9,047 4Q22
Rugby , UK 76 20,673 8,487 4Q22
Raleigh, NC 191 154,256 48050000 48,050 2Q23
Total 551 $ 271,273 $ 117,334  
During the year ended December 31, 2021, loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net is primarily attributable to the mark-to-market of the equity
warrants received as part of the Safanad/HC-One transaction that closed in the second quarter. In addition, the mark-to-market adjustment on our Genesis available-for-
sale investment is reflected in all periods.
Interest expense represents secured debt interest expense and related fees. The change in secured debt interest expense is due to the net effect and timing of
assumptions, segment transitions, fluctuations in foreign currency rates, extinguishments and principal amortizations. The following is a summary of our Triple-net
secured debt principal activity for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
58
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended
December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.
 Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate
Beginning balance $ 123,652 4.91% $ 306,038 3.60% $ 288,386 3.63%
Debt transferred in — —% — —% 12,072 3.89%
Debt extinguished (46,402) 5.43% (176,875) 2.03% — —%
Principal payments (4,679) 5.14% (4,376) 5.16% (4,017) 5.21%
Foreign currency (35) 5.43% (1,135) 2.97% 9,597 2.99%
Ending balance $ 72,536 4.57% $ 123,652 4.91% $ 306,038 3.60%
Monthly averages $ 117,966 4.90% $ 215,796 3.85% $ 294,080 3.63%
A portion of our Triple-net properties were formed through partnerships. Income or loss from unconsolidated entities represents our share of net income or losses from
partnerships where we are the noncontrolling partner. The increase in income from unconsolidated entities during the year ended December 31, 2021 is primarily related
to the reserves established on straight-line rent receivable balances at unconsolidated Genesis entities in the prior year. Net income attributable to noncontrolling
interests represents our partners’ share of net income relating to those partnerships where we are the controlling partner.
Outpatient Medical 
The following is a summary of our SSNOI at Welltower Share for the Outpatient Medical segment (dollars in thousands):
 QTD Pool YTD Pool
Three Months Ended Change Year Ended Change
 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 $ % December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 $ %
SSNOI $ 101,599 $ 100,185 $ 1,414 1.4 % $ 386,411 $ 375,497 $ 10,914 2.9 %
 Relates to 350 properties for the QTD Pool and 331 properties for the YTD Pool. Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information and reconciliations.
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the Outpatient Medical segment for the periods presented (dollars in thousands): 
  Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
  December 31, December 31,   December 31,     
  2021 2020 $ % 2019 $ % $ %
Revenues:          
 Rental income $ 613,254 $ 709,584 $ (96,330) -14 % $ 684,602 $ 24,982 4 % $ (71,348) -10 %
 Interest income 8,792 5,913 2,879 49 % 1,195 4,718 395 % 7,597 636 %
 Other income 13,243 4,522 8,721 193 % 2,031 2,491 123 % 11,212 552 %
 Total revenues 635,289 720,019 (84,730) -12 % 687,828 32,191 5 % (52,539) -8 %
Property operating expenses 186,939 214,948 (28,009) -13 % 218,793 (3,845) -2 % (31,854) -15 %
 NOI 448,350 505,071 (56,721) -11 % 469,035 36,036 8 % (20,685) -4 %
Other expenses:       
 Depreciation and amortization 223,302 261,371 (38,069) -15 % 241,258 20,113 8 % (17,956) -7 %
 Interest expense 17,506 17,579 (73) — % 13,411 4,168 31 % 4,095 31 %
 Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net (4) 1,046 (1,050) -100 % — 1,046 n/a (4) n/a
 Provision for loan losses, net (3,463) 3,202 (6,665) -208 % — 3,202 n/a (3,463) n/a
 Impairment of assets 2,211 — 2,211 n/a 14,062 (14,062) -100 % (11,851) -84 %
 Other expenses 2,523 8,218 (5,695) -69 % 1,788 6,430 360 % 735 41 %
  242,075 291,416 (49,341) -17 % 270,519 20,897 8 % (28,444) -11 %
Income from continuing operations before income taxes
and other item 206,275 213,655 (7,380) -3 % 198,516 15,139 8 % 7,759 4 %
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities (4,395) 7,312 (11,707) -160 % 7,061 251 4 % (11,456) -162 %
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 93,348 695,918 (602,570) -87 % 972 694,946 n/a 92,376 n/a
Income from continuing operations 295,228 916,885 (621,657) -68 % 206,549 710,336 344 % 88,679 43 %
Net income (loss) 295,228 916,885 (621,657) -68 % 206,549 710,336 344 % 88,679 43 %
Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling
interests 4,916 (278) 5,194 n/a 5,194 (5,472) -105 % (278) -5 %
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 290,312 $ 917,163 $ (626,851) -68 % $ 201,355 $ 715,808 355 % $ 88,957 44 %
 See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below.(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
59
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Rental income has decreased due primarily to significant dispositions that closed during 2020. Certain of our leases contain annual rental escalators that are contingent
upon changes in the Consumer Price Index. These escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental income is recorded based on the
contractual cash rental payments due for the period. If the Consumer Price Index does not increase, a portion of our revenues may not continue to increase. Our leases
could renew above or below current rental rates, resulting in an increase or decrease in rental income. For the three months ended December 31, 2021, our consolidated
Outpatient Medical portfolio signed 143,266 square feet of new leases and 203,285 square feet of renewals. The weighted-average term of these leases was seven years,
with a rate of $36.65 per square foot and tenant improvement and lease commission costs of $51.78 per square foot. Substantially all of these leases contain an annual
fixed or contingent escalation rent structure ranging from 1.0% to 10.0%.
We have collected virtually all rent due through the year ended December 31, 2021, with uncollected amounts primarily attributable to local jurisdictions with
COVID-19 related ordinances providing temporary rent relief to tenants. We evaluate leases individually and recognize rent on a cash basis if collectibility of
substantially all contractual rent payments is not probable.
The increase in interest income for the year ended December 31, 2021 is due primarily to a $178,207,000 first mortgage initiated in August 2020, which was
subsequently repaid in full in June of 2021, resulting in the reversal of the previously established allowance for credit losses.
The fluctuation in property operating expenses and depreciation and amortization are primarily attributable to the significant dispositions that occurred in 2020. To the
extent that we acquire or dispose of additional properties in the future, these amounts will change accordingly. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we
recognized an impairment charge of $2,211,000 related to one held for sale property. Transaction costs related to asset acquisitions are capitalized as a component of
purchase price. The fluctuation in other expenses is primarily due to noncapitalizable transaction costs. Changes in gains/losses on sales of properties are related to
volume of property sales and the sales prices.
During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed three Outpatient Medical construction projects representing $125,179,000 or $605 per square foot. The
following is a summary of our consolidated Outpatient Medical construction projects, excluding expansions, pending as of December 31, 2021 (dollars in thousands):
Location Square Feet Commitment Balance Est. Completion
Tyler, TX 85,214 $ 35,369 $ 14,534 4Q22
Stafford, TX 36,788 18,031 4,249 4Q22
Total 122,002 $ 53,400 $ 18,783  
Total interest expense represents secured debt interest expense. The change in secured debt interest expense is primarily due to the net effect and timing of
assumptions, extinguishments and principal amortizations. The following is a summary of our Outpatient Medical secured debt principal activity for the periods
presented (dollars in thousands):
Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended
December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.
 Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate
Beginning balance $ 548,229 3.55% $ 572,267 3.97% $ 386,738 4.20%
Debt assumed — —% — —% 202,084 4.12%
Debt extinguished (7,670) 5.64% (14,205) 5.34% (10,244) 5.75%
Principal payments (10,305) 4.43% (9,833) 4.60% (6,311) 4.97%
Ending balance $ 530,254 3.49% $ 548,229 3.55% $ 572,267 3.97%
Monthly averages $ 540,947 3.52% $ 562,017 3.72% $ 397,756 4.15%
A portion of our Outpatient Medical properties were formed through partnerships. Income or loss from unconsolidated entities represents our share of net income or
losses from partnerships where we are the noncontrolling partner. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests represents our partners’ share of net income or loss
relating to those partnerships where we are the controlling partner.
60
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Non-Segment/Corporate
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the Non-Segment/Corporate activities for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
 December 31, December 31,   December 31,     
 2021 2020 $ % 2019 $ % $ %
Revenues:          
Other income $ 2,992 $ 2,781 $ 211 8 % $ 3,966 $ (1,185) -30 % $ (974) -25 %
Total revenues 2,992 2,781 211 8 % 3,966 (1,185) -30 % (974) -25 %
Property operating expenses 8,817 3,381 5,436 161 % — 3,381 n/a 8,817 n/a
NOI (5,825) (600) (5,225) -871 % 3,966 (4,566) -115 % (9,791) -247 %
Other expenses:    
Interest expense 426,644 432,431 (5,787) -1 % 461,273 (28,842) -6 % (34,629) -8 %
General and administrative expenses 126,727 128,394 (1,667) -1 % 126,549 1,845 1 % 178 — %
Loss (gain) on extinguishments of debt, net 52,506 33,344 19,162 57 % 82,541 (49,197) -60 % (30,035) -36 %
Other expenses 7,895 24,929 (17,034) -68 % 10,705 14,224 133 % (2,810) -26 %
Total expenses 613,772 619,098 (5,326) -1 % 681,068 (61,970) -9 % (67,296) -10 %
Loss from continuing operations before income taxes and
other items (619,597) (619,698) 101 — % (677,102) 57,404 8 % 57,505 8 %
Income tax benefit (expense) (8,713) (9,968) 1,255 13 % (2,957) (7,011) -237 % (5,756) -195 %
Loss from continuing operations (628,310) (629,666) 1,356 — % (680,059) 50,393 7 % 51,749 8 %
Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (628,310)$ (629,666)$ 1,356 — % $ (680,059)$ 50,393 7 % $ 51,749 8 %
 See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below.
Property operating expenses represent insurance costs related to our captive insurance company formed as of July 1, 2020, which acts as a direct insurer of property
level insurance coverage for our portfolio.
The following is a summary of our Non-Segment/Corporate interest expense for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
 December 31, December 31,   December 31,     
 2021 2020 $ % 2019 $ % $ %
Senior unsecured notes $ 401,247 $ 400,014 $ 1,233 — % $ 402,133 $ (2,119) -1 % $ (886) — %
Unsecured credit facility and commercial paper
program 6,759 15,313 (8,554) -56 % 43,861 (28,548) -65 % (37,102) -85 %
Loan expense 18,638 17,104 1,534 9 % 15,279 1,825 12 % 3,359 22 %
Totals $ 426,644 $ 432,431 $ (5,787) -1 % $ 461,273 $ (28,842) -6 % $ (34,629) -8 %
The change in interest expense on senior unsecured notes is due to the net effect of issuances and extinguishments, as well as the movement in foreign exchange rates
and related hedge activity. Please refer to Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. The change in interest expense on our unsecured
revolving credit facility and commercial paper program is due primarily to the net effect and timing of draws, paydowns and variable interest rate changes. Please refer
to Note 10 of our consolidated financial statements for additional information. Loan expenses represent the amortization of costs incurred in connection with senior
unsecured notes issuances. The loss on extinguishment recognized during the year ended December 31, 2021 is due primarily to the early extinguishment of
$339,128,000 of our 3.75% senior unsecured notes due March 2023 and $334,624,000 of our 3.95% senior unsecured notes due September 2023. The loss on
extinguishment recognized during the year ended December 31, 2020 is due primarily to the early extinguishment of $160,872,000 of our 3.75% senior unsecured notes
due March 2023 and $265,376,000 of our 3.95% senior unsecured notes due September 2023.
General and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 were 2.67%, 2.79% and 2.47%,
respectively. Other expenses for all years include severance-related costs associated with the departure of certain executive officers and key employees. The provision
for income taxes primarily relates to state taxes, foreign taxes and taxes based on income generated by entities that are structured as TRSs.
Other
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We believe that net income and net income attributable to common stockholders, as defined by U.S. GAAP, are the most appropriate earnings measurements.
However, we consider FFO, NOI, SSNOI, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA to be useful supplemental measures of our operating performance. Historical cost accounting
for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time as evidenced by the
provision for depreciation. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have
considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to(1)
(1)
61
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
be insufficient. In response, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”) created funds from operations attributable to common stockholders
(“FFO”) as a supplemental measure of operating performance for REITs that excludes historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO, as defined by NAREIT, means
NICS, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP, excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate and impairment of depreciable assets, plus depreciation and
amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated entities and noncontrolling interests.
NOI is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties. We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property operating
expenses. Property operating expenses represent costs associated with managing, maintaining and servicing tenants for our properties. These expenses include, but are
not limited to, property-related payroll and benefits, property management fees paid to operators, marketing, housekeeping, food service, maintenance, utilities, property
taxes and insurance. General and administrative expenses represent costs unrelated to property operations. These expenses include, but are not limited to, payroll and
benefits, professional services, office expenses and depreciation of corporate fixed assets. Same store NOI (“SSNOI”) is used to evaluate the operating performance of
our properties using a consistent population which controls for changes in the composition of our portfolio. We believe the drivers of property level NOI for both
consolidated properties and unconsolidated properties are generally the same and therefore, we evaluate SSNOI based on our ownership interest in each property
("Welltower Share"). To arrive at Welltower's Share, NOI is adjusted by adding our minority ownership share related to unconsolidated properties and by subtracting the
minority partners' noncontrolling ownership interests for consolidated properties. We do not control investments in unconsolidated properties and while we consider
disclosures at Welltower Share to be useful, they may not accurately depict the legal and economic implications of our joint venture arrangements and should be used
with caution. As used herein, same store is generally defined as those revenue-generating properties in the portfolio for the relevant year-over-year reporting periods.
Acquisitions and development conversions are included in SSNOI five full quarters or eight full quarters after acquisition or being placed into service for the QTD Pool
and the YTD Pool, respectively. Land parcels, loans and sub-leases, as well as any properties sold or classified as held for sale during the respective periods are
excluded from SSNOI. Redeveloped properties (including major refurbishments of a Seniors Housing Operating property where 20% or more of units are
simultaneously taken out of commission for 30 days or more or Outpatient Medical properties undergoing a change in intended use) are excluded from SSNOI until five
full quarters or eight full quarters post completion of the redevelopment for the QTD Pool and YTD Pool, respectively. Properties undergoing operator transitions and/or
segment transitions are also excluded from SSNOI until five full quarters or eight full quarters post completion of the transition for the QTD Pool and YTD Pool,
respectively. In addition, properties significantly impacted by force majeure, acts of God, or other extraordinary adverse events are excluded from SSNOI until five full
quarters or eight full quarters after the properties are placed back into service for the QTD Pool and YTD Pool, respectively. SSNOI excludes non-cash NOI and
includes adjustments to present consistent ownership percentages and to translate Canadian properties and U.K. properties using a consistent exchange rate. We believe
NOI and SSNOI provide investors relevant and useful information because they measure the operating performance of our properties at the property level on an
unleveraged basis. We use NOI and SSNOI to make decisions about resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our properties.
EBITDA is defined as earnings (net income) before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA excluding unconsolidated
entities and including adjustments for stock-based compensation expense, provision for loan losses, gains/losses on extinguishment of debt, gains/loss/impairments on
properties, gains/losses on derivatives and financial instruments, other expenses, other impairment charges and other adjustments as deemed appropriate. We believe that
EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, along with net income, are important supplemental measures because they provide additional information to assess and evaluate the
performance of our operations. We primarily use these measures to determine our interest coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA divided by
total interest, and our fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA divided by fixed charges. Fixed charges include total interest and
secured debt principal amortization. Covenants in our unsecured senior notes and primary credit facility contain financial ratios based on a definition of EBITDA and
Adjusted EBITDA that is specific to those agreements. Our leverage ratios are defined as the proportion of net debt to total capitalization and include book
capitalization, undepreciated book capitalization and market capitalization. Book capitalization represents the sum of net debt (defined as total long-term debt, excluding
operating lease liabilities, less cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash), total equity and redeemable noncontrolling interests. Undepreciated book capitalization
represents book capitalization adjusted for accumulated depreciation and amortization. Market capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for the fair market
value of our common stock.
Our supplemental reporting measures and similarly entitled financial measures are widely used by investors, equity and debt analysts and rating agencies in the
valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. Management uses these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons
to our historical operating results and in making operating decisions. Additionally, these measures are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management. None
of our supplemental measures represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be
considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, the supplemental measures, as defined by us, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items
reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies.
62
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The table below reflects the reconciliation of FFO to NICS, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented. Noncontrolling interest and
unconsolidated entity amounts represent adjustments to reflect our share of depreciation and amortization, gains/loss on real estate dispositions and impairment of
assets. Amounts are in thousands except for per share data.
 Year Ended December 31,
FFO Reconciliation: 2021 2020 2019
Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 336,138 $ 978,844 $ 1,232,432 
Depreciation and amortization 1,037,566 1,038,437 1,027,073 
Impairment of assets 51,107 135,608 28,133 
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net (235,375) (1,088,455) (748,041)
Noncontrolling interests (54,190) (23,968) (20,197)
Unconsolidated entities 85,476 62,096 57,680 
Funds from operations attributable to common stockholders $ 1,220,722 $ 1,102,562 $ 1,577,080 
Average diluted shares outstanding: 426,841 417,387 403,808 
Per diluted share data:    
Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 0.78 $ 2.33 $ 3.05 
Funds from operations attributable to common stockholders $ 2.86 $ 2.64 $ 3.91 
(1) Includes adjustment to the numerator for income (loss) attributable to OP unitholders.
The following tables reflect the reconciliation of consolidated NOI to net income, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the years presented. Dollar
amounts are in thousands.
 Year Ended December 31,
NOI Reconciliation: 2021 2020 2019
Net income (loss) $ 374,479 $ 1,038,852 $ 1,330,410 
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net (235,375) (1,088,455) (748,041)
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities 22,933 8,083 (42,434)
Income tax expense (benefit) 8,713 9,968 2,957 
Other expenses 41,739 70,335 52,612 
Impairment of assets 51,107 135,608 28,133 
Provision for loan losses, net 7,270 94,436 18,690 
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 49,874 47,049 84,155 
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net (7,333) 11,049 (4,399)
General and administrative expenses 126,727 128,394 126,549 
Depreciation and amortization 1,037,566 1,038,437 1,027,073 
Interest expense 489,853 514,388 555,559 
Consolidated net operating income (NOI) $ 1,967,553 $ 2,008,144 $ 2,431,264 
NOI by segment:    
Seniors Housing Operating $ 683,906 $ 755,552 $ 1,039,520 
Triple-net 841,122 748,121 918,743 
Outpatient Medical 448,350 505,071 469,035 
Non-segment/corporate (5,825) (600) 3,966 
Total NOI $ 1,967,553 $ 2,008,144 $ 2,431,264 (1)
63
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Quarterly NOI by Segment:
(in thousands) Three Months Ended Year Ended
 March 31,  June 30,  September 30,  December 31, December 31,
2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020
Seniors Housing Operating:
Total revenues $ 726,402 $ 851,128 $ 742,549 $ 773,650 $ 839,519 $ 742,065 $ 904,780 $ 715,020 $ 3,213,250 $ 3,081,863
Property operating expenses 555,968 607,871 582,361 595,513 666,610 567,704 724,405 555,223 2,529,344 2,326,311
Consolidated NOI $ 170,434 $ 243,257 $ 160,188 $ 178,137 $ 172,909 $ 174,361 $ 180,375 $ 159,797 $ 683,906 $ 755,552
Triple-net:
Total revenues $ 168,482 $ 207,729 $ 238,941 $ 233,619 $ 239,985 $ 120,928 $ 243,176 $ 239,028 $ 890,584 $ 801,304
Property operating expenses 12,841 13,302 12,627 13,563 11,664 12,567 12,330 13,751 49,462 53,183
Consolidated NOI $ 155,641 $ 194,427 $ 226,314 $ 220,056 $ 228,321 $ 108,361 $ 230,846 $ 225,277 $ 841,122 $ 748,121
Outpatient Medical:
Total revenues $ 156,223 $ 199,329 $ 159,072 $ 180,831 $ 159,503 $ 172,704 $ 160,491 $ 167,155 $ 635,289 $ 720,019
Property operating expenses 46,863 60,608 45,495 51,688 48,072 52,728 46,509 49,924 186,939 214,948
Consolidated NOI $ 109,360 $ 138,721 $ 113,577 $ 129,143 $ 111,431 $ 119,976 $ 113,982 $ 117,231 $ 448,350 $ 505,071
Corporate:
Total revenues $ 955 $ 416 $ 430 $ 375 $ 790 $ 1,177 $ 817 $ 813 $ 2,992 $ 2,781
Property operating expenses 1,654 — 2,174 — 3,054 1,718 1,935 1,663 8,817 3,381
Consolidated NOI $ (699)$ 416 $ (1,744)$ 375 $ (2,264)$ (541)$ (1,118)$ (850)$ (5,825)$ (600
The following is a reconciliation of the properties included in our QTD Pool and YTD Pool for SSNOI:
QTD Pool YTD Pool
SSNOI Property Reconciliations:Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-netOutpatient
Medical TotalSeniors Housing
Operating Triple-netOutpatient
Medical Total
Consolidated properties 721 624 306 1,651 721 624 306 1,651
Unconsolidated properties 92 39 79 210 92 39 79 210
Total properties 813 663 385 1,861 813 663 385 1,861
Recent acquisitions/development
    conversions (183) (48) (23) (254) (193) (50) (42) (285
Under development (35) (5) (3) (43) (35) (5) (3) (43
Under redevelopment (2) (1) (2) (5) (3) (1) (2) (6
Current held for sale (2) (14) (1) (17) (2) (14) (1) (17
Land parcels, loans and subleases (18) (19) (6) (43) (18) (19) (6) (43
Transitions (82) (20) — (102) (83) (25) — (108
Other (2) (2) — (4) (2) (2) — (4
Same store properties 489 554 350 1,393 477 547 331 1,355
 Acquisitions and development conversions will enter the QTD Pool and YTD Pool five full quarters and eight full quarters after acquisition or certificate of occupancy , respectively .
 Redevelopment properties will enter the QTD Pool and YTD Pool after five full quarters and eight full quarters of operations post redevelopment completion, respectively .
 Transitioned properties will enter the QTD Pool and YTD Pool after five full quarters and eight full quarters of operations with the new operator in place or under the new structure, respectively .
 Represents properties that are either closed or being closed.(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
64
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following is a reconciliation of our consolidated NOI to same store NOI for the periods presented for the respective pools. Dollar amounts are in thousands.
QTD Pool YTD Pool
Three Months Ended Twelve Months Ended
SSNOI Reconciliations: December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Seniors Housing Operating:  
Consolidated NOI $ 180,375 $ 159,797 $ 683,906 $ 755,552
NOI attributable to unconsolidated investments 10,713 13,182 44,470 53,736
NOI attributable to noncontrolling interests (12,125) (9,405) (59,602) (49,070
Non-cash NOI attributable to same store properties (35) (381) 11,266 (3,390
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (42,733) (20,058) (135,437) (109,345
Currency and ownership adjustments 149 1,062 (848) 5,340
SSNOI at Welltower Share 136,344 144,197 543,755 652,823
Triple-net:
Consolidated NOI 230,846 225,277 841,122 748,121
NOI attributable to unconsolidated investments 4,893 4,818 19,559 13,796
NOI attributable to noncontrolling interests (13,600) (14,563) (48,874) (58,245
Non-cash NOI attributable to same store properties (6,854) (10,176) 15,778 (16,453
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (67,192) (62,498) (258,800) (122,851
Currency and ownership adjustments 414 1,273 699 6,42
SSNOI at Welltower Share 148,507 144,131 569,484 570,796
Outpatient Medical:
Consolidated NOI 113,982 117,231 448,350 505,071
NOI attributable to unconsolidated investments 4,682 3,609 18,998 10,139
NOI attributable to noncontrolling interests (4,896) (4,392) (17,168) (15,070
Non-cash NOI attributable to same store properties (2,483) (3,092) (8,140) (12,392
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (9,446) (7,476) (54,490) (68,633
Currency and ownership adjustments (240) (5,695) (1,139) (43,618
SSNOI at Welltower Share 101,599 100,185 386,411 375,497
SSNOI at Welltower Share:
Seniors Housing Operating 136,344 144,197 543,755 652,823
Triple-net 148,507 144,131 569,484 570,796
Outpatient Medical 101,599 100,185 386,411 375,497
Total $ 386,450 $ 388,513 $ 1,499,650 $ 1,599,116
 Includes adjustments to reflect consistent property ownership percentages, to translate Canadian properties at a USD/CAD rate of 1.2684 and to translate U.K. properties at a GBP/USD rate of 1.38.(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
65
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The table below reflects the reconciliation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA to net income, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods
presented. Dollars are in thousands.
 Year Ended December 31,
Adjusted EBITDA  Reconciliation: 2021 2020 2019
Net income (loss) $ 374,479 $ 1,038,852 $ 1,330,410 
Interest expense 489,853 514,388 555,559 
Income tax expense (benefit) 8,713 9,968 2,957 
Depreciation and amortization 1,037,566 1,038,437 1,027,073 
EBITDA 1,910,61 1 2,601,645 2,915,999 
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities 22,933 8,083 (42,434)
Stock-based compensation expense 17,812 28,318 25,047 
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 49,874 47,049 84,155 
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net (235,375) (1,088,455) (748,041)
Impairment of assets 51,107 135,608 28,133 
Provision for loan losses, net 7,270 94,436 18,690 
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net (7,333) 11,049 (4,399)
Other expenses 40,860 64,171 51,052 
Leasehold interest adjustment 760 — — 
Casualty losses, net of recoveries 5,786 — — 
Other impairment 49,241 146,508 — 
Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,913,546 $ 2,048,412 $ 2,328,202 
Adjusted Inter est Coverage Ratio:    
Interest expense $ 489,853 $ 514,388 $ 555,559 
Capitalized interest 19,352 17,472 15,272 
Non-cash interest expense (17,506) (15,751) (8,645)
Total interest 491,699 516,109 562,186 
Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,913,546 $ 2,048,412 $ 2,328,202 
Adjusted interest coverage ratio 3.89x 3.97x 4.14x
Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio:    
Total interest $ 491,699 $ 516,109 $ 562,186 
Secured debt principal payments 65,587 62,707 54,325 
Total fixed char ges 557,286 578,816 616,51 1 
Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,913,546 $ 2,048,412 $ 2,328,202 
Adjusted fixed char ge coverage ratio 3.43x 3.54x 3.78x
 Certain severance-related costs are included in stock-based compensation and excluded from other expenses.
 Represents $27,988,000 of revenue and $28,748,000 of property operating expenses associated with a leasehold portfolio interest relating to 26 properties assumed by a wholly-owned affiliate in conjunction
with the Holiday Retirement transaction. Subsequent to the initial transaction, we purchased eight of the leased properties and one of the properties was sold by the landlord and removed from the lease. No rent
will be paid in excess of net cash flow relating to the leasehold properties and therefore, the net impact has been excluded from Adjusted EBITDA.
 Represents casualty losses, net of any insurance recoveries.
 Represents reserve for straight-line rent receivables balances relating to leases placed on cash recognition.
Our leverage ratios include book capitalization, undepreciated book capitalization and market capitalization. Book capitalization represents the sum of net debt
(defined as total long-term debt less cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash), total equity and redeemable noncontrolling interests. Undepreciated book
capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for accumulated depreciation and amortization. Market capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for
the fair market value of our common stock. Our leverage ratios are defined as the proportion of net debt to total capitalization. The table below reflects the reconciliation
of our leverage ratios to our balance sheets for the periods presented. Amounts are in thousands, except share price.(1)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
66
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  Year Ended December 31,
  2021 2020 2019
Book capitalization:    
Unsecured credit facility and commercial paper $ 324,935 $ — $ 1,587,597 
Long-term debt obligations 13,917,702 13,905,822 13,436,365 
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (346,755) (2,021,043) (385,766)
Total net debt 13,895,882 11,884,779 14,638,196 
Total equity and noncontrolling interests 18,997,873 17,225,062 16,982,504 
Book capitalization $ 32,893,755 $ 29,109,841 $ 31,620,700 
 Net debt to book capitalization ratio 42.2 % 40.8 % 46.3 %
Undepr eciated book capitalization:
Total net debt $ 13,895,882 $ 11,884,779 $ 14,638,196 
Accumulated depreciation and amortization 6,910,1 14 6,104,297 5,715,459 
Total equity and noncontrolling interests 18,997,873 17,225,062 16,982,504 
Undepreciated book capitalization $ 39,803,869 $ 35,214,138 $ 37,336,159 
 Net debt to undepreciated book capitalization ratio 34.9 % 33.8 % 39.2 %
Market capitalization:
Common shares outstanding 447,239 417,401 410,257 
Period end share price $ 85.77 $ 64.62 $ 81.78 
Common equity market capitalization $ 38,359,689 $ 26,972,453 $ 33,550,817 
Total net debt 13,895,882 11,884,779 14,638,196 
Noncontrolling interests 1,361,872 1,252,343 1,442,060 
Market capitalization: $ 53,617,443 $ 40,109,575 $ 49,631,073 
 Net debt to market capitalization ratio 25.9 % 29.6 % 29.5 %
 Amounts include senior unsecured notes, secured debt and lease liabilities related to finance leases, as reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Operating lease liabilities related to the ASC 842 adoption
are excluded.
 Includes amounts attributable to both redeemable noncontrolling interests and noncontrolling interests as reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Critical Accounting Policies & Estimates
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires us to make estimates and assumptions. Management considers an
accounting estimate or assumption critical if:
•the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the
susceptibility of such matters to change; and
•the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material.
Management has discussed the development and selection of its critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Management believes the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements are appropriate and
are not reasonably likely to change in the future. However, since these estimates require assumptions to be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made,
they bear the risk of change. If actual experience differs from the assumptions and other considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in our consolidated
financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. Please
refer to Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for further information on significant accounting policies that impact us and for the impact of new accounting
standards, including accounting pronouncements that were issued but not yet adopted by us.(1)
(2)
(2)
(2)
(1)
(2)
67
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following table presents information about our critical accounting policies and estimates:
Nature of Critical
Accounting EstimateAssumptions/Approach
Used
Impairment of Real Property
Assessing impairment of real property involves subjectivity in determining if
indicators of impairment are present and in estimating the future undiscounted
cash flows or estimated fair value of an asset. In estimating the undiscounted cash
flows or fair value, key assumptions that would be made are the estimation of
future rental revenues, operating expenses, capitalization rates and the ability and
intent to hold the respective asset, all of which are affected by our expectations of
future market or economic conditions. These estimates can have a significant
impact on the undiscounted cash flows or estimated fair value of an asset.Quarterly, we evaluate our real estate investments on a property by property basis to
determine if there are indicators of impairment. These indicators may include
expected operational performance, the tenant's ability to make rent payments, a
decision to dispose of an asset before the end of its estimated useful life and
changes in the market that may permanently reduce the value of the property. If
indicators of impairment exist, an undiscounted cash flow analysis will be prepared
and the results of such analysis will be compared to the current net book value to
determine if an impairment charge is necessary. This analysis requires us to use
judgment in determining whether indicators of impairment exist and to estimate the
expected future undiscounted cash flows or estimated fair values of the property.
Properties that meet the held for sale criteria are recorded at the lesser of the fair
value less costs to sell or carrying value.
At December 31, 2021, our net real property owned was approximately
$30,695,633,000. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded
impairment charges of $19,567,000 related to four Triple-net properties and one
Outpatient Medical property which were disposed of or classified as held for sale
for which the carrying values exceeded the fair values. Additionally, we recorded
$31,540,000 of impairment charges related to two Seniors Housing Operating
properties and two Triple-net properties that were held for use in which the carrying
values exceeded the estimated fair values.
Real Estate Acquisitions
We believe that substantially all of our real estate acquisitions are considered asset
acquisitions for which we record the related real estate acquired (tangible assets
and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities) at cost on a relative fair value
basis. Liabilities assumed and any associated noncontrolling interests are reflected
at fair value. Tangible assets consist primarily of land, building and improvements.
Identifiable intangible assets and liabilities primarily consist of the above or below
market component of in-place leases and the value of in-place leases. The total
amount of other intangible assets acquired is further allocated to in-place lease
values and customer relationship values based on management's evaluation of the
specific characteristics of each tenant's lease and our overall relationship with
respect to that tenant. 
The allocation of the purchase price to the related real estate acquired (tangible
assets and intangible assets and liabilities) involves subjectivity as such allocations
are based on a relative fair value analysis. In determining the fair values that drive
such analysis, we estimate the fair value of each component of the real estate
acquired which generally includes land, buildings and improvements, the above or
below market component of in-place leases and the value of in-place leases.
Significant assumptions used to determine such fair values include comparable land
sales, capitalization rates, discount rates, market rental rates and property operating
data, all of which can be impacted by expectations about future market or economic
conditions. Our estimates of the values of these components affect the amount of
depreciation and amortization we record over the estimated useful life of the
property or the term of the lease.
During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed $4,084,174,000 of real
estate acquisitions. These transactions were accounted for as asset acquisitions and
the purchase price of each was allocated based on the relative fair values of the
assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
68
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Nature of Critical
Accounting EstimateAssumptions/Approach
Used
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include our accounts, the accounts of our
wholly-owned subsidiaries, and the accounts of joint venture entities in which
we own a majority voting interest with the ability to control operations and
where no substantive participating rights or substantive kick out rights have
been granted to the noncontrolling interests. In addition, we consolidate those
entities deemed to be variable interest entities (“VIEs”) in which we are
determined to be the primary beneficiary. All material intercompany transactions
and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.We make judgments about which entities are VIEs based on an assessment of whether
(i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a controlling financial interest,
or (ii) the equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity’s activities
without additional subordinated financial support. We make judgments with respect to
our level of influence or control of an entity and whether we are (or are not) the
primary beneficiary of a VIE. Consideration of various factors includes, but is not
limited to, our ability to direct the activities that most significantly impact the entity's
economic performance, our form of ownership interest, our representation on the
entity's governing body, the size and seniority of our investment, our ability and the
rights of other investors to participate in policy making decisions, replace the
manager and/or liquidate the entity, if applicable. Our ability to correctly assess our
influence or control over an entity at inception of our involvement or on a continuous
basis when determining the primary beneficiary of a VIE affects the presentation of
these entities in our consolidated financial statements. If we perform a primary
beneficiary analysis at a date other than at inception of the VIE, our assumptions may
be different and may result in the identification of a different primary beneficiary.
Allowance for Credit Losses on Loans Receivable
The allowance for credit losses is maintained at a level believed adequate to
absorb potential losses in our loans receivable. The determination of the credit
allowance is based on a quarterly evaluation of all outstanding loans, including
general economic conditions and estimated collectability of loan payments. The determination of the allowance for credit losses is based on a quarterly evaluation
of all outstanding loans, including general economic conditions and estimated
collectability of loan payments. We evaluate the collectability of our loans receivable
based on a combination of factors, including, but not limited to, payment status,
historical loan charge-offs, financial strength of the borrower and guarantors, and
nature, extent and value of the underlying collateral. A loan is considered to have
deteriorated credit quality when, based on current information and events, it is
probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due as scheduled according to
the contractual terms of the loan agreement. For those loans we identified as having
deteriorated credit quality, we determine the amount of credit loss on an individual
basis. Placement on non-accrual status may be required. Consistent with this
definition, all loans on non-accrual are deemed to have deteriorated credit quality. To
the extent circumstances improve and the risk of collectability is diminished, we may
return these loans to income accrual status. While a loan is on non-accrual status, any
cash receipts are applied against the outstanding principal balance. For the remaining
loans, we assess credit loss on a collective pool basis and use our historical loss
experience for similar loans to determine the reserve for credit losses.
During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recognized provision for loan losses of
$7,270,000 based on our historical loss experience.
69
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
We are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We seek to
mitigate the underlying foreign currency exposures with gains and losses on derivative contracts hedging these exposures. We seek to mitigate the effects of fluctuations
in interest rates by matching the terms of new investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. We may or may not elect to use financial
derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. These decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate investments with comparable
borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates. This section is
presented to provide a discussion of the risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. For more information, see
Notes 12 and 17 to our consolidated financial statements.
We historically borrow on our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program to acquire, construct or make loans relating to health care and
seniors housing properties. Then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay the borrowings under our unsecured revolving
credit facility and commercial paper program. We are subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced
or that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. The majority of our borrowings were completed under indentures or
contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. Accordingly, in the event that we are unable to raise additional equity or borrow money
because of these limitations, our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited.
A change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt. Interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value of our fixed
rate debt. Changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on
whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable rate debt or equity or repaid by the sale of assets. To illustrate the impact of changes in the interest rate
markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our fixed rate debt instruments whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a hypothetical 1%
increase in interest rates to determine the instruments’ change in fair value. The following table summarizes the analysis performed as of the dates indicated (in
thousands):
 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
 Principal balance Change in fair value Principal balance Change in fair value
Senior unsecured notes $ 11,002,297 $ (1,059,031) $ 9,943,501 $ (761,581)
Secured debt 1,490,708 (44,222) 1,702,196 (57,756)
Totals $ 12,493,005 $ (1,103,253) $ 11,645,697 $ (819,337)
Our variable rate debt, including our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, is reflected at fair value. At December 31, 2021, we had
$1,742,268,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt. Assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in increased
annual interest expense of $17,423,000. At December 31, 2020, we had $2,241,909,000 outstanding under our variable rate debt. Assuming no changes in outstanding
balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would have resulted in increased annual interest expense of $22,420,000.
We are subject to currency fluctuations that may, from time to time, affect our financial condition and results of operations. Increases or decreases in the value of the
Canadian Dollar or British Pounds Sterling relative to the U.S. Dollar impact the amount of net income we earn from our investments in Canada and the United
Kingdom. Based solely on our results for the year ended December 31, 2021, including the impact of existing hedging arrangements, if these exchange rates were to
increase or decrease by 10%, our net income from these investments would increase or decrease, as applicable, by less than $11,000,000. We will continue to mitigate
these underlying foreign currency exposures with non-U.S. denominated borrowings and gains and losses on derivative contracts. If we increase our international
presence through investments in, or acquisitions or development of, seniors housing and health care properties outside the U.S., we may also decide to transact
additional business or borrow funds in currencies other than U.S. Dollars, Canadian Dollars or British Pounds Sterling. To illustrate the impact of changes in foreign
currency markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our derivative portfolio whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a hypothetical 1%
increase in foreign currency exchange rates to determine the instruments’ change in fair value. The following table summarizes the results of the analysis performed
(dollars in thousands):
 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
 Carrying value Change in fair value Carrying value Change in fair value
Foreign currency exchange contracts $ 32,280 $ 19,740 $ 61,851 $ 12,731 
Debt designated as hedges 1,613,164 16,132 1,630,542 16,305 
Totals $ 1,645,444 $ 35,872 $ 1,692,393 $ 29,036 
70
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Welltower Inc. 
Opinion on the Financial Statements 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Welltower Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, the related
consolidated statements of comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, and the related notes and
financial statement schedules listed in the Index at Item 15(a) (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated
financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2021 and 2020 and the results of its operations and its
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 16, 2022 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion 
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements
based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the
U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of
material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included
examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be
communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially
challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial
statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the
accounts or disclosures to which they relate.
    Impairment of Real Property
Description of the Matter    At December 31, 2021, the Company’s net real property owned was approximately $30.7 billion. As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated
financial statements, the Company reviews its real property quarterly on a property-by-property basis to determine if facts and
circumstances suggest that the real property may be impaired. If the undiscounted cash flows indicate that the real property will not be
recoverable, the carrying value of the real property is reduced to its estimated fair value and an impairment charge is recognized for the
difference between the carrying value and the fair value.
Auditing the Company’s process to evaluate real property owned for impairment was complex due to the high degree of subjectivity in
determining whether indicators of impairment were present for certain properties, and in determining the future undiscounted cash flows
and estimated fair values, if necessary, of properties where indicators of impairment were determined to be present. In particular, the
undiscounted cash flows and fair value estimates were sensitive to significant assumptions, including future rental revenues and
operating expenses, capitalization rates, and anticipated hold period, which are affected by expectations about future market or
economic conditions.
71
HowWeAddressed the
Matter in Our Audit
        We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design, and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the Company’s process to evaluate real property owned
for impairment. This included testing controls over the Company’s review of impairment indicators by property and management's
review and approval of the significant assumptions described above.
To test the Company's evaluation of real property for impairment, we performed audit procedures that included, among others, assessing
the methodologies used by management, evaluating the significant assumptions discussed above and testing the completeness and
accuracy of the underlying data used by the Company in its analyses. We compared the significant assumptions used by management to
current industry and economic trends and evaluated whether changes to the Company’s business and other relevant factors would affect
the significant assumptions. In addition, we assessed the historical accuracy of the Company’s estimates and performed sensitivity
analyses of the significant assumptions to evaluate the changes in the undiscounted future cash flows and estimated fair values of the
property that would result from changes in the significant assumptions.
    Real Estate Acquisitions
Description of the Matter    During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company completed approximately $4.1 billion of real estate acquisitions. As disclosed in
Note 3 of the consolidated financial statements, the total purchase price for all properties acquired has been allocated to the related real
estate acquired (tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities) based upon their relative fair values.
Auditing the fair values allocated by management to the real estate acquired was complex because the fair value estimates were sensitive
to significant assumptions, including comparable land sales, capitalization rates, discount rates, market rental rates and property
operating data, which can be impacted by expectations about future market or economic conditions.
HowWeAddressed the
Matter in Our Audit
    We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design, and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the Company’s process to account for real estate
acquisitions, including controls over the Company’s review of the significant assumptions discussed above.
To test the fair values allocated to the real estate acquired, we performed audit procedures that included, among others, assessing the
methodologies used by management and evaluating the significant assumptions used by the Company discussed above. We compared
certain of management’s assumptions to external market data for similar properties and tested the clerical accuracy of the valuation
models. We involved our valuation specialist in our evaluation of the significant assumptions used by the Company and the review of the
valuation models.
/s/  Ernst & Young LLP
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1970.
Toledo, Ohio
February 16, 2022
72
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(in thousands)
December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Assets  
Real estate investments:   
Real property owned:   
Land and land improvements $ 3,968,430  $ 3,440,650  
Buildings and improvements 31,062,203  28,024,971  
Acquired lease intangibles 1,789,628  1,500,030  
Real property held for sale, net of accumulated depreciation 134,097  216,613  
Construction in progress 651,389  487,742  
Less accumulated depreciation and amortization (6,910,1 14) (6,104,297 )
Net real property owned 30,695,633  27,565,709  
Right of use assets, net 522,796  465,866  
Real estate loans receivable, net of credit allowance 1,068,681  443,372  
Net real estate investments 32,287,1 10 28,474,947  
Other assets:
Investments in unconsolidated entities 1,039,043  946,234  
Goodwill 68,321  68,321  
Cash and cash equivalents 269,265  1,545,046  
Restricted cash 77,490  475,997  
Straight-line rent receivable 365,643  344,066  
Receivables and other assets 803,453  629,031  
Total other assets 2,623,215  4,008,695  
Total assets $ 34,910,325  $ 32,483,642  
Liabilities and equity
Liabilities:
Unsecured credit facility and commercial paper $ 324,935  $ — 
Senior unsecured notes 11,613,758  11,420,790  
Secured debt 2,192,261  2,377,930  
Lease liabilities 545,944  418,266  
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 1,235,554  1,041,594  
Total liabilities 15,912,452  15,258,580  
Redeemable noncontrolling interests 401,294  343,490  
Equity:
Common stock 448,605  418,691  
Capital in excess of par value 23,133,641  20,823,145  
Treasury stock (107,750 ) (104,490 )
Cumulative net income 8,663,736  8,327,598  
Cumulative dividends (14,380,915 ) (13,343,721 )
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (121,316 ) (148,504 )
Total Welltower Inc. stockholders’  equity 17,636,001  15,972,719  
Noncontrolling interests 960,578  908,853  
Total equity 18,596,579  16,881,572  
Total liabilities and equity $ 34,910,325  $ 32,483,642  
See accompanying notes
73
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(In thousands, except per share data)
 Year Ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019
Revenues:
Resident fees and services $ 3,197,223  $ 3,074,022  $ 3,448,175  
Rental income 1,374,695  1,443,360  1,588,400  
Interest income 137,563  69,156  63,830  
Other income 32,634  19,429  20,901  
Total revenues 4,742,1 15 4,605,967  5,121,306  
Expenses:
Property operating expenses 2,774,562  2,597,823  2,690,042  
Depreciation and amortization 1,037,566  1,038,437  1,027,073  
Interest expense 489,853  514,388  555,559  
General and administrative expenses 126,727  128,394  126,549  
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net (7,333 ) 11,049  (4,399 )
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 49,874  47,049  84,155  
Provision for loan losses 7,270  94,436  18,690  
Impairment of assets 51,107  135,608  28,133  
Other expenses 41,739  70,335  52,612  
Total expenses 4,571,365  4,637,519  4,578,414  
Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and other items 170,750  (31,552 ) 542,892  
Income tax (expense) benefit (8,713 ) (9,968 ) (2,957 )
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities (22,933 ) (8,083 ) 42,434  
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 235,375  1,088,455  748,041  
Income (loss) from continuing operations 374,479  1,038,852  1,330,410  
Net income 374,479  1,038,852  1,330,410  
Less:  Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 38,341  60,008  97,978  
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 336,138  $ 978,844  $ 1,232,432  
Weighted average number of common shares outstanding:
Basic 424,976  415,451  401,845  
Diluted 426,841  417,387  403,808  
Earnings per share:
Basic:
Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 0.88 $ 2.50 $ 3.31 
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 0.79 $ 2.36 $ 3.07 
Diluted:
Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 0.88 $ 2.49 $ 3.29 
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 0.78 $ 2.33 $ 3.05 
(1) Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests
(2) Includes adjustment to the numerator for income (loss) attributable to OP unitholders.
See accompanying notes(1)
(2)
74
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (CONTINUED)
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(In thousands)
 Year Ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019
Net income $ 374,479  $ 1,038,852  $ 1,330,410  
Other comprehensive income (loss):
Unrecognized actuarial gain (loss) — — 540 
Foreign currency translation gain (loss) (52,826 ) 103,612  161,915  
Derivative and financial instruments designated as hedges gain (loss) 79,702  (134,369 ) (131,120 )
Total other comprehensive income (loss) 26,876  (30,757 ) 31,335  
Total comprehensive income (loss) 401,355  1,008,095  1,361,745  
Less: Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to
noncontrolling interests 38,029  65,598  111,701  
Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 363,326  $ 942,497  $ 1,250,044  
(1) Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests.
See accompanying notes(1)
75
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(in thousands)
Preferred
StockCommon
StockCapital in
Excess of Par
ValueTreasury
StockCumulative
Net IncomeCumulative
DividendsAccumulated
Other
Comprehensive
Income (Loss)Noncontrolling
Interests Total
Balances at December 31, 2018 $ 718,498 $ 384,465 $18,424,662 $ (68,499)$6,121,534 $(10,818,557)$ (129,769)$ 954,265 $15,586,599 
Comprehensive income:
Net income (loss) 1,232,432 67,365 1,299,797 
Other comprehensive income (loss) 17,612 13,440 31,052 
Total comprehensive income 1,330,849 
Net change in noncontrolling interests 3,583 (68,887) (65,304)
Amounts related to stock incentive plans, net of
forfeitures 162 25,163 (10,456) 14,869 
Net proceeds from issuance of common stock 13,666 1,030,925 1,044,591 
Conversion of preferred stock (718,498) 12,712 705,786 — 
Dividends paid:
Common stock dividends (1,404,977) (1,404,977)
Balances at December 31, 2019 — 411,005 20,190,119 (78,955) 7,353,966 (12,223,534) (112,157) 966,183 16,506,627 
Cumulative change in accounting principle (Note 2) (5,212) (5,212)
Balances at January 1, 2020 (as adjusted for change in
accounting principle) — 411,005 20,190,119 (78,955) 7,348,754 (12,223,534) (112,157) 966,183 16,501,415 
Comprehensive income:
Net income (loss) 978,844 98,910 1,077,754 
Other comprehensive income (loss) (36,347) 5,493 (30,854)
Total comprehensive income 1,046,900 
Net change in noncontrolling interests 18,158 (161,733) (143,575)
Amounts related to stock incentive plans, net of
forfeitures 622 27,666 (17,879) 10,409 
Net proceeds from issuance of common stock 7,064 587,202 594,266 
Conversion of preferred stock (7,656) (7,656)
Dividends paid:
Common stock dividends (1,120,187) (1,120,187)
Balances at December 31, 2020 — 418,691 20,823,145 (104,490) 8,327,598 (13,343,721) (148,504) 908,853 16,881,572 
Comprehensive income:
Net income (loss) 336,138 36,795 372,933 
Other comprehensive income (loss) 27,188 (366) 26,822 
Total comprehensive income 399,755 
Net change in noncontrolling interests (23,743) 15,296 (8,447)
Amounts related to stock incentive plans, net of
forfeitures 246 18,087 (3,260) 15,073 
Net proceeds from issuance of common stock 29,668 2,316,152 2,345,820 
Dividends paid:
Common stock dividends (1,037,194) (1,037,194)
Balances at December 31, 2021 $ — $ 448,605 $23,133,641 $(107,750)$8,663,736 $(14,380,915)$ (121,316)$ 960,578 $18,596,579 
See accompanying notes
76
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(in thousands)
Year Ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019
Operating activities:
Net income $ 374,479 $ 1,038,852 $ 1,330,410 
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided from (used in) operating
activities:
Depreciation and amortization 1,037,566 1,038,437 1,027,073 
Other amortization expenses 19,148 13,213 16,827 
Provision for loan losses 7,270 94,436 18,690 
Impairment of assets 51,107 135,608 28,133 
Stock-based compensation expense 17,812 28,318 25,047 
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net (7,333) 11,049 (4,399)
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 49,874 47,049 84,155 
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities 22,933 8,083 (42,434)
Rental income less than (in excess of) cash received (30,820) 60,254 (106,331)
Amortization related to above (below) market leases, net (3,536) (1,870) (676)
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net (235,375) (1,088,455) (748,041)
Distributions by unconsolidated entities 16,763 11,601 — 
Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses and other liabilities 77,554 22,764 (29,068)
Decrease (increase) in receivables and other assets (122,117) (54,583) (63,418)
Net cash provided from (used in) operating activities 1,275,325 1,364,756 1,535,968 
Investing activities:
Cash disbursed for acquisitions, net of cash acquired (4,084,174) (903,756) (3,959,683)
Cash disbursed for capital improvements to existing properties (282,588) (244,989) (328,824)
Cash disbursed for construction in progress (417,963) (201,336) (323,488)
Capitalized interest (19,352) (17,472) (15,272)
Investment in loans receivable (997,449) (247,543) (119,699)
Principal collected on loans receivable 343,260 31,548 127,706 
Other investments, net of payments (26,595) 7,726 (8,282)
Contributions to unconsolidated entities (396,020) (411,154) (279,631)
Distributions by unconsolidated entities 286,772 48,195 216,231 
Proceeds from (payments on) derivatives 7,519 (13,319) (8,499)
Proceeds from sales of real property 1,070,322 4,300,028 2,650,650 
Net cash provided from (used in) investing activities (4,516,268) 2,347,928 (2,048,791)
Financing activities:
Net increase (decrease) under unsecured credit facility and commercial paper 324,935 (1,587,597) 440,597 
Proceeds from issuance of senior unsecured notes 1,703,626 1,588,549 3,974,559 
Payments to extinguish senior unsecured notes (1,533,752) (566,248) (3,335,290)
Net proceeds from the issuance of secured debt 23,569 62,055 343,696 
Payments on secured debt (197,618) (694,995) (284,433)
Net proceeds from the issuance of common stock 2,348,201 595,313 1,056,125 
Repurchase of common stock — (7,656) — 
Payments for deferred financing costs and prepayment penalties (73,735) (39,087) (84,142)
Contributions by noncontrolling interests 156,318 44,023 55,365 
Distributions to noncontrolling interests (138,756) (333,489) (172,940)
Cash distributions to stockholders (1,035,906) (1,119,232) (1,400,712)
Other financing activities (9,218) (22,494) (15,675)
Net cash provided from (used in) financing activities 1,567,664 (2,080,858) 577,150 
Effect of foreign currency translation on cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (1,009) 3,451 5,310 
Increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (1,674,288) 1,635,277 69,637 
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of period 2,021,043 385,766 316,129 
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of period $ 346,755 $ 2,021,043 $ 385,766 
Supplemental cash flow information:
Interest paid $ 492,742 $ 508,454 $ 574,536 
Income taxes paid (received) (4,812) 13,671 14,338 
(1) Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests.
See accompanying notes.(1)
(1)
77
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Business 
Welltower Inc., (the "Company") an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health care infrastructure. The Company
invests with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund the real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery
models and improve people’s wellness and overall health care experience. Welltower™, a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), owns interests in properties concentrated
in major, high-growth markets in the United States (“U.S.”), Canada and the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), consisting of seniors housing and post-acute communities and
outpatient medical properties. 
2. Accounting Policies and Related Matters
Use of Estimates
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) requires us to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and joint venture (“JV”) entities that we control, through voting rights or
other means. All material intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. At inception of JV transactions, we identify entities for which
control is achieved through means other than voting rights (“variable interest entities” or “VIEs”) and determine which business enterprise is the primary beneficiary of
its operations. A VIE is broadly defined as an entity where either (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a controlling financial interest, or (ii) the equity
investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity’s activities without additional subordinated financial support. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are
determined to be the primary beneficiary. Accounting Standards Codification Topic 810, Consolidations (“ASC 810”), requires enterprises to perform a qualitative
approach to determining whether or not a VIE will need to be consolidated. This evaluation is based on an enterprise’s ability to direct and influence the activities of a
VIE that most significantly impact that entity’s economic performance. For investments in JVs, U.S. GAAP may preclude consolidation by the sole general partner in
certain circumstances based on the type of rights held by the limited partner(s). We assess the limited partners’ rights and their impact on our consolidation conclusions,
and we reassess if there is a change to the terms or in the exercisability of the rights of the limited partners, the sole general partner increases or decreases its ownership
of limited partnership interests, or there is an increase or decrease in the number of outstanding limited partnership interests. We similarly evaluate the rights of
managing members of limited liability companies.
Revenue Recognition
For our Triple-net and Outpatient Medical segments, a significant source of our revenue is generated through leasing arrangements. Leases with fixed annual rental
escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income related to leases with
contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. Leases in our Outpatient Medical portfolio typically
include some form of operating expense reimbursement by the tenant. Certain payments made to operators are treated as lease incentives and amortized as a reduction of
revenue over the lease term. 
For our Seniors Housing Operating segment, revenue from resident fees and services is predominantly service-based, and generally is recognized monthly as services
are provided. Agreements with residents generally have varying terms and are cancellable by the resident with 30 days’ notice. Management contracts are present in
some of our joint venture agreements to provide asset and property management, leasing, marketing and other services.
Our Seniors Housing Operating segment contains continuing care retirement communities which operate as entrance fee communities. The entrance fee communities
offer different contracts which vary in terms of how much of the entrance fee is considered to be refundable upon move-out, temporarily refundable until a period of
time has passed, or nonrefundable. Refundable entrance fees are recorded as a payable within the accrued expenses and other liabilities line item of our Consolidated
Balance Sheets. Nonrefundable entrance fees are recorded as deferred revenue within the same line item and are recognized into revenue over the estimated remaining
stay of the resident. We use a third party actuarial expert to determine the estimated remaining stay of each resident based on demographic data.
Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal amount outstanding, subject to an evaluation of collectability risk.
We recognize gains on the disposition of real estate when the recognition criteria have been met, generally at the time the risks and rewards and title have transferred
and we no longer have substantial continuing involvement with the real estate sold. We recognize losses from disposition of real estate when known.
78
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
Restricted Cash
Restricted cash primarily consists of amounts held by lenders to provide future payments for real estate taxes, insurance, tenant and capital improvements, amounts
held in escrow relating to transactions we are entitled to receive over a period of time as outlined in the escrow agreement and net proceeds from property sales that
were executed as tax-deferred dispositions under Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”) Section 1031.
Deferred Loan Expenses
Deferred loan expenses are costs incurred by us in connection with the issuance, assumption and amendments of debt arrangements. Deferred loan expenses related to
debt instruments, excluding the primary unsecured credit facility, are recorded as a reduction of the related debt liability. Deferred loan expenses related to the primary
unsecured credit facility are included in other assets. We amortize these costs over the term of the debt using the straight-line method, which approximates the effective
interest method.
Investments in Unconsolidated Entities
Investments in entities that we do not consolidate but have the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies are reported under the
equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, our share of the investee’s earnings or losses is included in our consolidated results of operations. The initial
carrying value of investments in unconsolidated entities is based on the amount paid to purchase the entity interest inclusive of transaction costs. To the extent that our
cost basis is different from the basis reflected at the entity level, the basis difference is generally amortized over the lives of the related assets and liabilities, and such
amortization is included in our share of equity in earnings of the entity. We evaluate our equity method investments for impairment based upon a comparison of the
estimated fair value of the equity method investment to its carrying value. When we determine a decline in the estimated fair value of such an investment below its
carrying value is other-than-temporary, an impairment is recorded.
Equity Securities
Equity securities are measured at fair value with gains and losses recognized in loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net in the Consolidated
Statements of Comprehensive Income.
Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests
Certain noncontrolling interests are redeemable at fair value. Accordingly, we record the carrying amount of the noncontrolling interests at the greater of (i) the initial
carrying amount, increased or decreased for the noncontrolling interest’s share of net income or loss and its share of other comprehensive income or loss, and dividends
or (ii) the redemption value. If the interests are redeemable in the future, we accrete the carrying value to the redemption value over the period until expected
redemption, currently a weighted-average period of approximately five years. In accordance with ASC 810, the redeemable noncontrolling interests are classified
outside of permanent equity, as a mezzanine item, on the balance sheet. At December 31, 2021, the current redemption value of redeemable noncontrolling interests
exceeded the carrying value of $401,294,000 by $40,212,000.
We entered into certain DownREIT partnerships which give a real estate seller the ability to exchange its property on a tax deferred basis for equity membership
interests (“OP units”). The OP units may be redeemed any time following the first anniversary of the date of issuance at the election of the holders for one share of our
common stock per unit or, at our option, cash.
Real Property Owned
Real estate acquisitions are generally classified as asset acquisitions for which we record tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities at cost on a
relative fair value basis. Liabilities assumed and any associated noncontrolling interests are reflected at fair value. Tangible assets primarily consist of land, buildings
and improvements.
Identifiable intangible assets and liabilities consist primarily of the above or below market component of in-place leases and the value associated with the presence of
in-place leases. The value allocable to the above or below market component of the acquired in-place lease is determined based upon the present value (using a discount
rate which reflects the risks associated with the acquired leases) of the difference between (i) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the lease over its remaining
term, and (ii) management’s estimate of the amounts that would be paid using fair market rates over the remaining term of the lease. The amounts allocated to above
market leases are included in acquired lease intangibles and below market leases are included in other liabilities on the balance sheet and are amortized to rental income
over the remaining terms of the respective leases or lease-up period.
79
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The total amount of other intangible assets acquired is further allocated to in-place lease values and customer relationship values for in-place tenants based on
management’s evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant’s lease and our overall relationship with that respective tenant. Characteristics considered by
management in allocating these values include the nature and extent of our existing business relationships with the tenant, growth prospects for developing new business
with the tenant, the tenant’s credit quality and expectations of lease renewals, among other factors. The total amount of other intangible assets acquired is further
allocated to in-place lease values for in-place residents with such value representing (i) value associated with lost revenue related to tenant reimbursable operating costs
that would be incurred in an assumed re-leasing period, and (ii) value associated with lost rental revenue from existing leases during an assumed re-leasing period. This
intangible asset is amortized over the remaining life of the lease or the assumed re-leasing period.
Real property developed by us is recorded at cost, including the capitalization of construction period interest. These properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis
over their estimated useful lives which range from 15 to 40 years for buildings and 5 to 15 years for improvements. We consider costs incurred in conjunction with re-
leasing properties, including tenant improvements and lease commissions, to represent the acquisition of productive assets and, accordingly, such costs are reflected as
investment activities in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
The net book value of long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly on a property by property basis to determine if facts and circumstances suggest that the assets may be
impaired or that the depreciable life may need to be changed. We consider external factors relating to each asset and the existence of a master lease which may link the
cash flows of an individual asset to a larger portfolio of assets leased to the same tenant. If these factors and the projected undiscounted cash flows of the assets over the
remaining depreciation period indicate that the assets will not be recoverable, the carrying value is reduced to the estimated fair market value. In addition, we are
exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and health care industries. A downturn in the real estate
industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us. Additionally, properties that meet the
held for sale criteria are recorded at the lesser of fair value less costs to sell or the carrying value.
Expenditures for repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred.
Capitalization of Construction Period Interest
We capitalize interest costs associated with funds used for the construction of properties owned by us. The amount capitalized is based upon the balance outstanding
during the construction period using the rate of interest which approximates our company-wide cost of financing. Our interest expense reflected in the Consolidated
Statements of Comprehensive Income has been reduced by the amounts capitalized.
Loans Receivable
Loans receivable are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets in real estate loans receivable, net of credit allowance, or for non-real estate loans receivable, in
receivables and other assets. Real estate loans receivable consists of mortgage loans and other real estate loans which are primarily collateralized by a first, second or
third mortgage lien, a leasehold mortgage on, or an assignment or pledge of the membership interest in, the related properties, corporate guarantees and/or personal
guarantees. Non-real estate loans are generally corporate loans with no real estate backing. Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal
amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of the risk of credit loss.
In Substance Real Estate Investments
We provide loans to third parties for the acquisition, development and construction of real estate. Under these arrangements, it is possible that we will participate in
the expected residual profits of the project through the sale, refinancing or acquisition of the property. We evaluate the characteristics of each arrangement, including its
risks and rewards, to determine whether they are more similar to those associated with a loan or an investment in real estate. Arrangements with characteristics implying
loan classification are presented as real estate loans receivable and result in the recognition of interest income. Arrangements with characteristics implying real estate
joint ventures are treated as in substance real estate investments and presented as investments in unconsolidated entities and are accounted for using the equity method.
The classification of each arrangement as either a real estate loan receivable or investment in unconsolidated entity involves judgment and relies on various factors,
including market conditions, amount and timing of expected residual profits, credit enhancements in the form of guarantees, estimated fair value of the collateral, and
significance of borrower equity in the project, among others. The classification of such arrangements is performed at inception, and periodically reassessed when
significant changes occur in the circumstances or conditions described above.
80
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Allowance for Credit Losses on Loans Receivable
The allowance for credit losses on loans receivable is maintained at a level believed adequate to absorb potential losses in our loans receivable. The determination of
the credit allowance is based on a quarterly evaluation of all outstanding loans, including general economic conditions and estimated collectability of loan payments. We
evaluate the collectability of our loans receivable based on a combination of credit quality indicators, including, but not limited to, payment status, historical loan
charge-offs, financial strength of the borrower and guarantors, and nature, extent, and value of the underlying collateral. A loan is considered to have deteriorated credit
quality when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due as scheduled according to the contractual terms of
the loan agreement. For those loans we identified as having deteriorated credit quality, we determine the amount of credit loss on an individual basis. Placement on non-
accrual status may be required. Consistent with this definition, all loans on non-accrual status are deemed to have deteriorated credit quality. To the extent circumstances
improve and the risk of collectability is diminished, we may return these loans to income accrual status. While a loan is on non-accrual status, any cash receipts are
applied against the outstanding principal balance. For the remaining loans we assess credit loss on a collective pool basis and use our historical loss experience for
similar loans to determine the reserve for credit losses.
Goodwill
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and is tested for impairment more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. An
impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying amount, including goodwill, exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value and the implied fair value of goodwill is
less than the carrying amount of that goodwill. We have not had any goodwill impairments.
 Fair Value of Derivative Instruments
Derivatives are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities. The valuation of derivative instruments requires us to make estimates and judgments
that affect the fair value of the instruments. Fair values of our derivatives are estimated by pricing models that consider the forward yield curves and discount rates. The
fair value of our forward exchange contracts are estimated by pricing models that consider foreign currency spot rates, forward trade rates and discount rates. Such
amounts and the recognition of such amounts are subject to estimates that may change in the future. See Note 12 for additional information.
Accrued Expenses and Other Liabilities
Accrued expenses and other liabilities consist of the following (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2021 2020
Accounts payable $ 174,799  $ 101,592  
Accrued interest 111,157  112,202  
Other accrued expenses 238,931  193,631  
Unearned revenues 307,316  115,41 1 
Taxes payable 117,013  99,916  
Other liabilities 286,338  418,842  
Total $ 1,235,554  $ 1,041,594  
Federal Income Tax
We have elected to be treated as a REIT under the applicable provisions of the IRC, commencing with our first taxable year, and made no provision for U.S. federal
income tax purposes prior to our acquisition of our taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRSs”). As a result of these as well as subsequent acquisitions, we now record income
tax expense or benefit with respect to certain of our entities that are taxed as TRSs under provisions similar to those applicable to regular corporations and not under the
REIT provisions. We account for deferred income taxes using the asset and liability method and recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax
consequences of events that have been included in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Under this method, we determine deferred tax assets and
liabilities based on the differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the
differences are expected to reverse. Any increase or decrease in the deferred tax liability that results from a change in circumstances, and that causes a change in our
judgment about expected future tax consequences of events, is included in the tax provision when such changes occur. Deferred income taxes also reflect the impact of
operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. A valuation allowance is provided if we believe it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax asset
will not be realized. Any increase or decrease in the valuation allowance that results from a change in circumstances, and that causes a change in our judgment about the
realizability of the related deferred tax asset, is included in the tax provision when such changes occur. See Note 19 for additional information.
81
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Foreign Currency
Certain of our subsidiaries’ functional currencies are the local currencies of their respective countries. We translate the results of operations of our foreign subsidiaries
into U.S. Dollars using average rates of exchange in effect during the period, and we translate balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect at the end of the
period. We record resulting currency translation adjustments in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders’ equity, on our Consolidated
Balance Sheets.
Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of shares outstanding for the period
adjusted for non-vested shares of restricted stock. The computation of diluted earnings per share is similar to basic earnings per share, except that the number of shares
is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the potentially dilutive common shares had been issued.
Additionally, net income (loss) allocated to OP units (discussed above) has been included in the numerator and redeemable common stock related to the OP units have
been included in the denominator for the purpose of computing diluted earnings per share.
Reclassifications
Certain amounts in prior years have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic
The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our operations and those of our operators and tenants will depend on future developments, which are highly
uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence, including the scope, severity and duration of the pandemic, the actions taken to contain the pandemic or mitigate its
impact, the direct and indirect economic effects of the pandemic and containment measures, the impact of new variants, the effectiveness of vaccines, the overall pace of
recovery, among others. The COVID-19 pandemic could have material and adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the future.
Our Seniors Housing Operating revenues are dependent on occupancy. Spot occupancy has steadily increased in recent months, with 94% (unaudited) of communities
open for new admissions and nearly all communities allowing visitors, in-person tours and communal dining and activities as of December 31, 2021. Rapid distribution
and a high acceptance rate of COVID-19 vaccinations by residents within assisted living and memory care facilities in the U.S. and U.K. have resulted in a significant
decrease in total resident case counts across the portfolio from peak levels in mid-January 2021, however, resident case counts have increased in December 2021 as a
result of highly transmissible variants. As of December 31, 2021, occupancy has increased approximately 510 basis points ("bps") to 77.7% since the pandemic-low of
72.6% on March 12, 2021 (unaudited). Quarterly spot occupancy rates through December 31, 2021 are as follows (unaudited):
December 31, 2020 March 31, 2021 June 30, 2021 September 30, 2021 December 31, 2021
Spot occupancy 74.9 % 72.9 % 74.8 % 76.9 % 77.7 %
Sequential occupancy change (1.9)% 1.9 % 2.1 % 0.7 %
Spot occupancy represents approximate month end occupancy at our share for 546 properties in operation as of December 31, 2020, including unconsolidated properties but excluding acquisitions,
executed dispositions, development conversions since this date as well as one property closed for redevelopment.
Sequential occupancy changes are based on actual spot occupancy and may not recalculate due to rounding.
During the year ended December 31, 2021, the U.S. and U.K. portfolios reported spot occupancy gains of approximately 490 bps and 80 bps, respectively. Canada
reported a spot occupancy gain of approximately 290 bps (unaudited).
On March 27, 2020, the federal government enacted the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (“CARES Act”) to provide financial aid to individuals,
businesses, and state and local governments. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we received government grants under the CARES Act
primarily to cover increased expenses and lost revenue during the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as under similar programs in the U.K. and Canada. Grant income is
recognized when there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and the Company will comply with all conditions attached to the grant. Additionally,
grants are recognized over the periods in which the Company recognizes the increased expenses and lost revenue the grants are intended to defray. For the years ended
December 31, 2021 and 2020 we recognized $97,933,000 and $31,927,000, respectively, of government grant income as a reduction to property operating expenses in
our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. Additionally, for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we recognized $4,642,000 and $3,014,000,
respectively, of government grant income in other income in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. The amount of qualifying expenditures and lost
revenue exceeded grant income recognized and we believe we have complied and will continue to comply with all grant conditions.(1)
(2)
(1) 
(2) 
82
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Property-level operating expenses associated with the COVID-19 pandemic relating to our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio totaled $63,681,000 and
$110,719,000 for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. These expenses were incurred as a result of the introduction of public health measures and
other regulations affecting our properties, as well as additional health and safety measures adopted by us and our operators related to the COVID-19 pandemic,
including increases in labor and property cleaning expenses and expenditures related to our efforts to procure personal protective equipment ("PPE") and supplies.
Certain new expenses incurred since the start of the pandemic may continue on an ongoing basis as part of new health and safety protocols.
Our Triple-net operators have experienced similar occupancy declines and operating costs as described above with respect to our Seniors Housing Operating
properties. Additionally, long-term/post-acute care facilities are generally experiencing a higher degree of occupancy declines. These factors may continue to impact the
ability of our Triple-net operators to make contractual rent payments to us in the future. Many of our Triple-net operators received funds under the CARES Act
Paycheck Protection Program and Provider Relief Fund.
During the year ended December 31, 2021, we collected approximately 94% of rent due from operators under Triple-net lease agreements (primarily seniors housing
and post-acute care facilities). No significant rent deferrals or rent concessions have been made. We evaluate leases individually and recognize rent on a cash basis if
collectibility of substantially all contractual rent payments is not probable. To the extent the prolonged impact of the COVID-19 pandemic causes operators or tenants to
seek further modifications of their lease agreements, we may recognize reductions in revenue and increases in uncollectible receivables.
During the year ended December 31, 2021, we have collected virtually all rent due from tenants in our Outpatient Medical portfolio, with uncollected amounts
primarily attributable to local jurisdictions with COVID-19 related ordinances providing temporary rent relief to tenants. We evaluate leases individually and recognize
rent on a cash basis if collectibility of substantially all contractual rent payments is not probable.
New Accounting Standards
•In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-06, “Debt-Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging-Contracts in
Entity’s Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40) Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entity’s Own Equity”. This ASU simplifies accounting for
convertible instruments and removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception. This ASU
also simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas and provides updated disclosure requirements. The ASU is effective for public
business entities beginning after December 15, 2021, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The adoption of this
standard will not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.
•In March 2020, the FASB issued an amendment to the reference rate reform standard which provides the option for a limited period of time to ease the
potential burden in accounting for, or recognizing the effects of, reference rate reform on contract modifications and hedge accounting. An example of such
reform is the expected market transition from the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") and other interbank offered rates to alternative reference rates.
Entities that make this optional expedient election would not have to remeasure the contracts at the modification date or reassess the accounting treatment if
certain criteria are met and would continue applying hedge accounting for relationships affected by reference rate reform. The new standard was effective for
us upon issuance and elections can be made through December 31, 2022. We are currently evaluating our options with regards to existing contracts and hedging
relationships and the impact of adopting this update on our consolidated financial statements.
3. Real Property Acquisitions and Development 
The total purchase price for all properties acquired has been allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities at cost on a relative fair value
basis. Liabilities assumed and any associated noncontrolling interests are reflected at fair value. The results of operations for these acquisitions have been included in
our consolidated results of operations since the date of acquisition and are a component of the appropriate segments. Transaction costs primarily represent costs incurred
with acquisitions, including due diligence costs, fees for legal and valuation services, termination of pre-existing relationships computed based on the fair value of the
assets acquired, lease termination fees and other acquisition-related costs. Transaction costs related to asset acquisitions are capitalized as a component of purchase price
and all other non-capitalizable costs are reflected in other expenses on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
83
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following is a summary of our real property investment activity by segment for the periods presented (in thousands):
Year Ended December 31, 2021
 Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-net Outpatient Medical Total
Land and land improvements  $ 449,335  $ 88,839  $ 64,843  $ 603,017  
Buildings and improvements  2,347,609  809,328  313,864  3,470,801  
Acquired lease intangibles  264,589  — 24,751  289,340  
Right of use assets, net 77,455  — — 77,455  
Total net real estate assets 3,138,988  898,167  403,458  4,440,613  
Receivables and other assets 6,096  411 3,534  10,041  
Total assets acquired 3,145,084  898,578  406,992  4,450,654  
Lease liabilities (138,126 ) — — (138,126 )
Accrued expenses and other liabilities (191,454 ) (8,703 ) (266) (200,423 )
Total liabilities acquired (329,580 ) (8,703 ) (266) (338,549 )
Noncontrolling interests (4,942 ) (6,449 ) (16,540 ) (27,931 )
 Cash disbursed for acquisitions 2,810,562  883,426  390,186  4,084,174  
Construction in progress additions 322,050  77,412  42,464  441,926  
Less: Capitalized interest (13,834 ) (3,078 ) (2,440 ) (19,352 )
Accruals 35 — (4,646 ) (4,611)
Cash disbursed for construction in progress 308,251  74,334  35,378  417,963  
Capital improvements to existing properties 197,829  37,345  47,414  282,588  
Total cash invested in real property , net of cash acquired  $ 3,316,642  $ 995,105  $ 472,978  $ 4,784,725  
 Excludes $4,201,000 of unrestricted and restricted cash acquired.
 Includes amounts attributable to both redeemable noncontrolling interests and noncontrolling interests.
Represents non-cash accruals for amounts to be paid in future periods for properties that converted, off-set by amounts paid in the current period.
Year Ended December 31, 2020
 Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-net Outpatient Medical Total
Land and land improvements  $ 55,000  $ 16,876  $ 45,590  $ 117,466  
Buildings and improvements  527,189  73,855  179,004  780,048  
Acquired lease intangibles  28,668  — 24,718  53,386  
Total net real estate assets 610,857  90,731  249,312  950,900  
Receivables and other assets  746 — 268 1,014  
Total assets acquired 611,603  90,731  249,580  951,914  
Accrued expenses and other liabilities (1,650 ) — (962) (2,612 )
Total liabilities acquired (1,650 ) — (962) (2,612 )
Noncontrolling interests (45,546 ) — — (45,546 )
Cash disbursed for acquisitions 564,407  90,731  248,618  903,756  
Construction in progress additions 134,945  45,256  39,833  220,034  
Less: Capitalized interest (10,389 ) (3,209 ) (3,874 ) (17,472 )
Accruals (1,226 ) — — (1,226 )
Cash disbursed for construction in progress 123,330  42,047  35,959  201,336  
Capital improvements to existing properties 107,379  76,625  60,985  244,989  
Total cash invested in real property , net of cash acquired $ 795,1 16 $ 209,403  $ 345,562  $ 1,350,081  
 Excludes $580,000 of unrestricted and restricted cash acquired.
 Includes amounts attributable to both redeemable noncontrolling interests and noncontrolling interests.
 Represents non-cash accruals for amounts to be paid in future periods for properties that converted, off-set by amounts paid in the current period.(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3) 
(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
84
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Year Ended December 31, 2019
 Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-net Outpatient Medical Total
Land and land improvements  $ 154,470  $ 24,097  $ 293,933  $ 472,500  
Buildings and improvements  1,518,748  203,282  1,954,928  3,676,958  
Acquired lease intangibles  76,009  — 183,921  259,930  
Real property held for sale 17,435  — — 17,435  
Construction in progress 36,174  — — 36,174  
Right of use assets, net — — 58,377  58,377  
Total net real estate assets 1,802,836  227,379  2,491,159  4,521,374  
Receivables and other assets  15,634  — 1,586  17,220  
Total assets acquired 1,818,470  227,379  2,492,745  4,538,594  
Secured debt  (194,408 ) — (206,754 ) (401,162 )
Lease liabilities — — (47,740 ) (47,740 )
Accrued expenses and other liabilities (12,024 ) — (32,893 ) (44,917 )
Total liabilities acquired (206,432 ) — (287,387 ) (493,819 )
Noncontrolling interests (67,987 ) (4,015 ) (1,201 ) (73,203 )
Non-cash acquisition related activity (11,889 ) — — (11,889 )
Cash disbursed for acquisitions 1,532,162  223,364  2,204,157  3,959,683  
Construction in progress additions 227,018  61,414  60,884  349,316  
Less: Capitalized interest (8,889 ) (2,385 ) (3,998 ) (15,272 )
Accruals — — (1,035 ) (1,035 )
Cash disbursed for construction in progress 218,129  59,029  55,851  333,009  
Capital improvements to existing properties 260,413  17,426  50,985  328,824  
Total cash invested in real property , net of cash acquired $ 2,010,704  $ 299,819  $ 2,310,993  $ 4,621,516  
 Excludes $2,090,000 of unrestricted and restricted cash acquired.
 Includes amounts attributable to both redeemable noncontrolling interests and noncontrolling interests.
 Relates to the acquisition of assets previously recognized as investments in unconsolidated entities.
 Represents non-cash accruals for amounts to be paid in future periods for properties that converted, off-set by amounts paid in the current period.
Holiday Retirement Acquisition
On July 30, 2021, we acquired a portfolio of 85 seniors housing properties owned by Holiday Retirement for $1,576,600,000, which are included in our Seniors
Housing Operating segment and in the table above for the year ended December 31, 2021. Atria Senior Living assumed operations of the portfolio following its
acquisition of the Holiday Retirement management company pursuant to an incentive-based management agreement. As part of this transaction, a wholly owned
subsidiary assumed the leasehold interest in a 26 property portfolio and subsequently purchased eight of the leased properties from the landlord. The lease, identified as
an operating lease, expires in 2035 and was recognized as a right of use asset, net of above market lease intangibles, and lease liability.
Construction Activity 
The following is a summary of the construction projects that were placed into service and began generating revenues during the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Development projects:
Seniors Housing Operating $ 117,386  $ 93,188  $ 28,117 
Triple-net 22,990  75,149  — 
Outpatient Medical 125,179  43,493  21,006  
Total development projects 265,555  211,830  49,123  
Expansion projects 5,292  48,600  — 
Total construction in progress conversions $ 270,847  $ 260,430  $ 49,123  
 (1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
85
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
4. Real Estate Intangibles 
The following is a summary of our real estate intangibles, excluding those related to ground leases or classified as held for sale, as of the dates indicated (dollars in
thousands):
December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Assets:
In place lease intangibles $ 1,681,533  $ 1,406,705  
Above market tenant leases 53,964  52,621  
Lease commissions 54,131  40,704  
Gross historical cost 1,789,628  1,500,030  
Accumulated amortization (1,286,259 ) (1,177,513 )
Net book value $ 503,369  $ 322,517  
Weighted-average amortization period in years 5.5 10.5
Liabilities:
Below market tenant leases $ 74,909  $ 77,851  
Accumulated amortization (45,291 ) (40,871 )
Net book value $ 29,618  $ 36,980  
Weighted-average amortization period in years 8.2 8.3
The following is a summary of real estate intangible amortization income (expense) for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019
Rental income related to (above)/below market tenant leases, net $ 1,680  $ 1,710  $ 508 
Amortization related to in place lease intangibles and lease commissions (115,579 ) (121,004 ) (135,047 )
The future estimated aggregate amortization of intangible assets and liabilities is as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Assets Liabilities
2022 $ 168,534  $ 7,374  
2023 113,105  5,253  
2024 56,699  3,118 
2025 22,706  2,588  
2026 23,009  2,075  
Thereafter 119,316  9,210  
Totals $ 503,369  $ 29,618  
5. Dispositions, Real Property Held for Sale and Impairment
We periodically sell properties for various reasons, including favorable market conditions, the exercise of tenant purchase options or reduction of concentrations (e.g.
property type, relationship or geography). At December 31, 2021, two Seniors Housing Operating, 14 Triple-net and one Outpatient Medical properties, with an
aggregate net real estate balance of $134,097,000, were classified as held for sale. In addition to the real property balances held for sale, net other assets and (liabilities)
of $9,876,000 were included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets related to the held for sale properties. Expected gross sales proceeds related to the held for sale
properties are approximately $171,184,000.
During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded impairment charges of $19,567,000 related to four Triple-net properties and one Outpatient Medical property,
which were disposed of or classified as held for sale for which the carrying value exceeded the fair values, less estimated costs to sell. Additionally, we recorded
$31,540,000 of impairment charges related to two Seniors Housing Operating properties and two Triple-net properties that were held for use in which the carrying value
exceed the estimated fair value. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded impairment charges of $87,873,000 related to 15 Seniors Housing Operating
and one Triple-net properties, which were disposed of or classified as held for sale as the carrying value exceeded the fair values, less estimated costs to sell.
Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded $47,735,000 of impairment charges related to six Seniors Housing Operating and four Triple-net
properties that were held for use in which the carrying value exceed the fair value. The following is a summary of our real property disposition activity for the periods
presented (in thousands):
86
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Real estate dispositions:
Seniors Housing Operating $ 112,837  $ 1,289,769  $ 1,232,816  
Triple-net 486,369  51,666  667,632  
Outpatient Medical 229,660  1,755,864  482 
Total dispositions 828,866  3,097,299  1,900,930  
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 235,375  1,088,455  748,041  
Net other assets (liabilities) disposed 6,081  114,274  1,679  
Proceeds from real estate dispositions $ 1,070,322  $ 4,300,028  $ 2,650,650  
Operating results attributable to properties sold or classified as held for sale which do not meet the definition of discontinued operations, are not reclassified on our
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. The following represents the activity related to these properties for the periods presented (in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019
Revenues:
Total revenues $ 63,114 $ 303,791  $ 827,961  
Expenses:
Interest expense 1,479  11,241  23,186  
Property operating expenses 8,490  163,800  403,010  
Provision for depreciation 8,665  82,330  162,761  
Total expenses 18,634  257,371  588,957  
Income (loss) from real estate dispositions, net $ 44,480  $ 46,420  $ 239,004  
6. Leases
We lease land, buildings, office space and certain equipment. Many of our leases include a renewal option to extend the term from one to 25 years or more. Renewal
options that we are reasonably certain to exercise are recognized in our right-of-use assets and lease liabilities. As most of our leases do not provide a rate implicit in the
lease agreement, we generally use our incremental borrowing rate available at lease commencement, underlying collateral for the lease and the ability to borrow against
that collateral on a secured basis to determine the present value of lease payments. The incremental borrowing rates were determined using our longer term borrowing
rates (actual pricing through 30 years, as well as other longer-term market rates).
We sublease certain real estate to a third party. Our sublease portfolio consists of a finance lease for seven buildings which are subleased to a long-term/ post-acute
care operator.
The components of lease expense were as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
 Classification 2021 2020 2019
Operating lease cost: 
Real estate lease expense Property operating expenses $ 22,642  $ 23,472  $ 25,166  
Non-real estate investment lease expense General and administrative expenses 4,596  4,745  1,654  
Finance lease cost:
Amortization of leased assets Property operating expenses 8,105  8,203  7,795  
Interest on lease liabilities Interest expense 6,574  6,411 4,748  
Sublease income Rental income (8,687 ) (4,173 ) (4,173 )
Total  $ 33,230  $ 38,658  $ 35,190  
 Includes short-term leases which are immaterial.(1)
(1)
87
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2021 are as follows (in thousands):
Operating Leases Finance Leases
2022 $ 45,151  $ 8,698  
2023 45,994  69,774  
2024 45,856  1,860  
2025 43,612  1,658  
2026 43,689  1,696  
Thereafter 1,159,048  127,171  
Total lease payments 1,383,350  210,857  
Less: Imputed interest (949,089 ) (99,174 )
Total present value of lease liabilities $ 434,261  $ 111,683  
Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases was as follows for the periods presented (in thousands, except lease terms and discount rate):
 Classification December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Right of use assets:
Operating leases - real estate Right of use assets, net $ 367,068  $ 310,017  
Finance leases - real estate Right of use assets, net 155,728  155,849  
Real estate right of use assets, net 522,796  465,866  
Operating leases - non-real estate investments Receivables and other assets 9,627  9,624  
Total right of use assets, net $ 532,423  $ 475,490  
Lease liabilities:
Operating leases $ 434,261  $ 311,164  
Finance leases 111,683  107,102  
Total lease liabilities $ 545,944  $ 418,266  
Weighted average remaining lease term (years):
Operating leases 36.6 46.9
Finance leases 19.8 17.7
Weighted average discount rate:
Operating leases 9.72 % 5.02 %
Finance leases 5.06 % 5.16 %
Supplemental cash flow information related to leases was as follows for the periods indicated (in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
 Classification 2021 2020 2019
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities:
Operating cash flows from operating leases Decrease (increase) in receivables and other assets $ 9,081  $ 9,323  $ 6,397  
Operating cash flows from operating leases Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses and other liabilities (6,008 ) (3,918 ) (5,489 )
Operating cash flows from finance leases Decrease (increase) in receivables and other assets 8,336  8,263  10,732  
Financing cash flows from finance leases Other financing activities (3,578 ) (3,568 ) (3,401 )
Substantially all of our operating leases in which we are the lessor contain escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally
recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is
generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. During the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we reserved for previously
recognized straight-line rent receivable balances of $49,241,000 and $146,508,000 through rental income, relating to leases for which collection of substantially all
contractual lease payments was no longer deemed probable. Included in the 2020 amount
88
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
was $91,025,000 related to Genesis Healthcare ("Genesis") whom noted substantial doubt as to their ability to continue as a going concern.
Leases in our Triple-net and Outpatient Medical portfolios typically include some form of operating expense reimbursement by the tenant. Rental income related to
operating leases and the corresponding variable lease payments, which primarily represents the reimbursement of operating costs such as common area maintenance
expenses, utilities, insurance and real estate taxes for the periods indicated were as follows (in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
2021 2020 2019
Fixed income from operating leases $ 1,193,837  $ 1,240,012  $ 1,387,836  
Variable lease payments 180,858  203,348  200,564  
The following table sets forth the future minimum lease payments receivable for leases in effect at December 31, 2021 (excluding properties in our Seniors Housing
Operating portfolio and excluding any operating expense reimbursements) (in thousands):
2022 $ 1,136,024  
2023 1,132,184
2024 1,117,953
2025 1,109,530
2026 1,097,517
Thereafter 6,701,274
Totals $ 12,294,482  
7. Loans Receivable
Loans receivable are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets in real estate loans receivable, net of allowance for credit losses, or for non-real estate loans
receivable, in receivables and other assets, net of allowance for credit losses.
Accrued interest receivable was $26,659,000 and $15,615,000 as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, respectively, and is included in receivables and other
assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The following is a summary of our loans receivable (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2021 2020
Mortgage loans $ 889,556  $ 299,430  
Other real estate loans 194,477  152,739  
Allowance for credit losses on real estate loans receivable (15,352 ) (8,797 )
Real estate loans receivable, net of credit allowance 1,068,681  443,372  
Non-real estate loans 375,060  455,508  
Allowance for credit losses on non-real estate loans receivable (151,433 ) (215,239 )
Non-real estate loans receivable, net of credit allowance 223,627  240,269  
Total loans receivable, net of credit allowance $ 1,292,308  $ 683,641  
  Included in receivables and other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
During the year ended December 31, 2020, the real estate collateral associated with one loan was released, therefore, the principal balance of $86,411,000 and related
allowance for credit losses of $42,376,000 was reclassified to non-real estate loans.(1)
(1)
89
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following is a summary of our loan activity for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Advances on loans receivable:    
Investments in new loans $ 975,018  $ 224,078  $ 46,824  
Draws on existing loans 22,431  23,465  72,875  
Net cash advances on loans receivable 997,449  247,543  119,699  
Receipts on loans receivable:
Loan payof fs 266,822  15,677  118,703  
Principal payments on loans 76,438  15,871  9,003  
Net cash receipts on loans receivable 343,260  31,548  127,706  
Net cash advances (receipts) on loans receivable $ 654,189  $ 215,995  $ (8,007 )
During the year ended December 31, 2021, we provided £540 million (approximately $750,330,000 based on the Sterling/ U.S. Dollar exchange rate as of the date of
funding) of senior loan financing and a £30 million delayed facility for working capital and capital expenditures to affiliates of Safanad, a global real estate and private
equity firm, as part of the recapitalization of its investment in HC-One Group. The loan has a five-year term and is fully collateralized by the shares and assets of the
HC-One Group, including its underlying portfolio of owned assets across the U.K. As part of the transaction, we received equity warrants which provide us the right to
participate in the capital appreciation of HC-One Group above a designated price upon liquidation. See Note 12 for additional details.
The following is a summary of our loans by credit loss category (in thousands):
December 31, 2021
Loan category Years of Origination Loan Carrying Value Allowance for Credit Loss Net Loan Balance No. of Loans
Deteriorated loans  2007 - 2018 $ 178,369  $ (148,438 )$ 29,931  3
Collective loan pool  2007 - 2016 205,380  (3,097 ) 202,283  17
Collective loan pool  2017 34,397  (519) 33,878  7
Collective loan pool  2018 23,322  (351) 22,971  2
Collective loan pool  2019 22,083  (333) 21,750  4
Collective loan pool  2020 48,712  (734) 47,978  6
Collective loan pool 2021 946,830  (13,313 ) 933,517  22
Total loans $ 1,459,093  $ (166,785 )$ 1,292,308  61 
In 2019, we recognized a provision for loan losses of $18,690,000 to fully reserve for and eventually wrote off certain Triple-net real estate loans receivable that were
no longer deemed collectible. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized additional provision for loan losses of $88,201,000 as a result of the current
collateral estimates for loans with deteriorated credit, primarily relating to our outstanding Genesis loans. As of December 31, 2021, the total allowance for credit losses
balance of $166,785,000 is deemed to be sufficient to absorb expected losses relating to our loan portfolio. The following is a summary of the allowance for credit
losses on loans receivable for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019
Balance at beginning of year $ 224,036  $ 68,372  $ 68,372  
Adoption of ASU 2016-13 — 5,212  — 
Provision for loan losses 7,270  94,436  18,690  
Loan write-of fs (64,075 ) (7,000 ) (18,690 )
Foreign currency translation (446) 197 — 
Reclassification of deferred gain as credit loss — 62,819  — 
Balance at end of year $ 166,785  $ 224,036  $ 68,372  
Includes $64,075,000 related to the Genesis lease terminations for the twelve months ended December 31, 2021. See Note 9 for further details.
 During the year ended December 31, 2020, two loans receivable originated in 2016 to Genesis with an aggregate carrying value of $62,753,000 were transferred to the deteriorated loan pool. In addition, deferred gains of $62,819,000
previously recorded in accrued expenses and other liabilities were reclassified to the allowance for credit losses.(1)
(2)
(1) 
(2)
90
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following is a summary of our deteriorated loans (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019
Balance of deteriorated loans at end of year $ 178,369  $ 242,319  $ 188,018  
Allowance for credit losses (148,438 ) (212,514 ) (68,372 )
Balance of deteriorated loans not reserved $ 29,931  $ 29,805  $ 119,646  
Interest recognized on deteriorated loans $ 3,185  $ 18,937  $ 16,235  
Balances include $2,157,000, $3,623,000 and $2,534,000 of loans on non-accrual as of December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
 Represents cash interest recognized in the period.
8. Investments in Unconsolidated Entities 
We participate in a number of joint ventures, which generally invest in seniors housing and health care real estate. Our share of the results of operations for these
properties has been included in our consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition by the joint ventures and are reflected in our Consolidated Statements
of Comprehensive Income as income or loss from unconsolidated entities. The following is a summary of our investments in unconsolidated entities (dollars in
thousands):
Percentage Ownership December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Seniors Housing Operating 10% to 65% $ 830,647  $ 653,057  
Triple-net 10% to 25% 44,814  5,629  
Outpatient Medical 15% to 50% 163,582  287,548  
Total $ 1,039,043  $ 946,234  
 Includes ownership of investments classified as liabilities and excludes ownership of in-substance real estate.
We own 34% of Sunrise Senior Living Management, Inc. ("Sunrise"), who provides comprehensive property management and accounting services with respect to
certain of our Seniors Housing Operating properties that Sunrise operates. We pay Sunrise annual management fees pursuant to long-term management agreements. The
majority of our management agreements have initial terms expiring in 2028, plus, if applicable, optional renewal periods ranging from an additional 3 to 15 years
depending on the property. The management fees payable to Sunrise under the management agreements include a fee based on a percentage of revenues generated by
the applicable properties plus, if applicable, positive or negative adjustments based on specified performance targets. For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and
2019, we recognized fees to Sunrise of $37,052,000, $37,569,000 and $41,200,000, respectively, which are reflected within property operating expenses in our
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. 
During the year ended December 31, 2019, we sold our interest in a Seniors Housing Operating joint venture and recognized a gain of $38,681,000 in income (loss)
from unconsolidated entities in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
At December 31, 2021, the aggregate unamortized basis difference of our joint venture investments of $140,187,000 is primarily attributable to the difference between
the amount for which we purchased our interest in the entity, including transaction costs, and the historical carrying value of the net assets of the joint venture. This
difference is being amortized over the remaining useful life of the related properties and included in the reported amount of income from unconsolidated entities.
We have made loans related to 12 properties as of December 31, 2021 for the development and construction of certain properties which are classified as in substance
real estate investments and have a carrying value of $317,647,000. We believe that such borrowers typically represent VIEs in accordance with ASC 810. VIEs are
required to be consolidated by their primary beneficiary which is the enterprise that has both: (i) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly
impacts the entity’s economic performance; and (ii) the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of the VIE that could be significant to the entity. We
have concluded that we are not the primary beneficiary of such borrowers, therefore, the loan arrangements were assessed based on among other factors, the amount and
timing of expected residual profits, the estimated fair value of the collateral and the significance of the borrower’s equity in the project. Based on these assessments the
arrangements have been classified as in substance real estate investments. We expect to fund an additional $86,644,000 related to these investments.
9. Credit Concentration
We use consolidated net operating income (“NOI”) as our credit concentration metric. See Note 18 for additional information and reconciliation. The following table
summarizes certain information about our credit concentration for the year ended December 31, 2021, excluding our share of NOI in unconsolidated entities (dollars in
thousands):(1)
(2)
(1) 
(2)
(1)
(1)
91
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Number of Total Percent of
Concentration by relationship: Properties NOI NOI
ProMedica 205 $ 228,052  12%
Sunrise Senior Living 110 195,148  10%
Revera 85 90,015  5%
Avery Healthcare 61 84,552  4%
HC-One Group 1 65,942  3%
Remaining portfolio 1,189  1,303,844  66%
Totals 1,651  $ 1,967,553  100%
 Sunrise and Revera are in our Seniors Housing Operating segment. ProMedica and HC-One Group are in our Triple-net segment. Avery Healthcare is in both the Triple-net and Seniors Housing Operating
segments.
 NOI with our top five relationships comprised 36% of total NOI for the year ending December 31, 2020.
 Revera owns a controlling interest in Sunrise. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we recognized $1,051,094,000 of revenue from properties managed by Sunrise.
 In addition to the one property, HC-One Group is the borrower on a £540,000,000 loan. See Note 7 for further detail.
During the quarter ended March 31, 2021, we entered into definitive agreements to substantially exit our operating relationship with Genesis. The status of these
transactions as of December 31, 2021 is as follows:
•We contributed nine Triple-net properties operated by Genesis into an 80/20 joint venture with ProMedica and such properties were added to the existing
master lease with ProMedica.
•Operations have transitioned to regional operators for 39 of the remaining 42 properties, with the three remaining properties expected to be transitioned at a
later date.
•We entered into definitive agreements to sell the 42 former Genesis properties to either a joint venture with Aurora Health Network, the new operator and us, or
to sell outright. We have closed on the sale of 25 of these properties. An additional ten properties are classified as held for sale and the remaining seven
properties are expected to close simultaneously with our purchase option exercise in April 2023.
•To effectuate the transition of all 51 properties, we agreed to provide Genesis a lease termination fee of $86 million upon successful transition of all properties,
which will be used to immediately repay indebtedness to us. The debt reduction associated with the lease termination fee was previously reserved as an
allowance for credit losses on loans receivable.
•Additionally, upon achievement of certain restructuring milestones, we will reduce Genesis' indebtedness by an additional $170 million in exchange for an
equity interest in Genesis. Upon conclusion of the aforementioned loan transactions, Genesis will have $167 million of indebtedness to us, exclusive of
additional paid in kind interest, which will carry a maturity date of January 1, 2024. As of December 31, 2021, our total carrying value of Genesis loans
receivable, net of allowances for credit losses, was $154,476,000.
10. Borrowings Under Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Program
At December 31, 2021, we had a primary unsecured credit facility with a consortium of 34 banks that included a $4,000,000,000 unsecured revolving credit facility, a
$500,000,000 unsecured term credit facility and a $250,000,000 Canadian-denominated unsecured term credit facility. The unsecured revolving credit facility is
comprised of a $1,000,000,000 tranche that matures on June 4, 2023 (none outstanding at December 31, 2021) and a $3,000,000,000 tranche that matures on June 4,
2025 (none outstanding at December 31, 2021). Both tranches may be extended for two successive terms of six months at our option. The term credit facilities mature
on July 19, 2023. We have an option, through an accordion feature, to upsize the unsecured revolving credit facility and the $500,000,000 unsecured term credit facility
by up to an additional $1,250,000,000, in the aggregate, and the $250,000,000 Canadian-denominated unsecured term credit facility by up to an additional
$250,000,000. The primary unsecured credit facility also allows us to borrow up to $1,000,000,000 in alternate currencies (none outstanding at December 31, 2021).
Borrowings under the unsecured revolving credit facility are subject to interest payable at the applicable margin over LIBOR interest rate. The applicable margin is
based on our debt ratings and was 0.775% at December 31, 2021. In addition, we pay a facility fee quarterly to each bank based on the bank’s commitment amount. The
facility fee depends on our debt ratings and was 0.15% at December 31, 2021. 
In January 2019, we established an unsecured commercial paper program. Under the terms of the program, we may issue unsecured commercial paper notes with
maturities that vary, but do not exceed 397 days from the date of issue, up to a maximum aggregate face or principal amount outstanding at any time of $1,000,000,000.
As of December 31, 2021, there was a balance of $324,935,000 outstanding on the commercial paper program ($325,000,000 in principal outstanding, net of an
unamortized discount of $65,000), which reduces the borrowing capacity of the unsecured revolving credit facility. The notes bear interest at floating rates with a
weighted average of 0.41% as of December 31, 2021 and a weighted average maturity of 18 days as of December 31, 2021.(1) (2)
(3)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
92
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following information relates to aggregate borrowings under the unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program for the periods presented
(dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019
Balance outstanding at year end $ 325,000  $ — $ 1,588,600  
Maximum amount outstanding at any month end $ 994,000  $ 2,100,000  $ 2,880,000  
Average amount outstanding (total of daily principal balances
divided by days in period) $ 384,418  $ 497,014  $ 1,376,813  
Weighted-average interest rate (actual interest expense divided
by average borrowings outstanding) 0.33 % 2.09 % 2.84 %
 
11. Senior Unsecured Notes and Secured Debt
We may repurchase, redeem or refinance senior unsecured notes from time to time, taking advantage of favorable market conditions when available. We may purchase
senior notes for cash through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, a tender offer or, in some cases, through the early redemption of such securities
pursuant to their terms. The senior unsecured notes are redeemable at our option, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at a redemption price equal to the
sum of (i) the principal amount of the notes (or portion of such notes) being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon up to the redemption date and (ii) any
“make-whole” amount due under the terms of the notes in connection with early redemptions. Redemptions and repurchases of debt, if any, will depend on prevailing
market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, and other factors. At December 31, 2021, the annual principal payments due on these debt
obligations were as follows (in thousands):
Senior Unsecured Notes Secured Debt Totals
2022 $ — $ 582,884  $ 582,884  
2023 695,664  551,716  1,247,380  
2024 1,350,000  181,710  1,531,710  
2025 1,260,000  160,427  1,420,427  
2026 700,000  107,327  807,327  
Thereafter 7,702,297  618,248  8,320,545  
Totals $ 11,707,961  $ 2,202,312  $ 13,910,273  
 Amounts represent principal amounts due and do not include unamortized premiums/discounts, debt issuance costs, or other fair value adjustments as reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 Annual interest rates range from 0.80% to 6.50%.
 Annual interest rates range from 0.08% to 6.67%. Carrying value of the properties securing the debt totaled $5,062,000,000 at December 31, 2021.
 Includes a $250,000,000 Canadian-denominated unsecured term credit facility (approximately $195,664,000 based on the Canadian/U.S. Dollar exchange rate on December 31, 2021). The loan matures on
July 19, 2023 and bears interest at the Canadian Dealer Offered Rate plus 0.9% (1.34% at December 31, 2021).
 Includes a $500,000,000 unsecured term credit facility. The loan matures on July 19, 2023 and bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.9% (1.00% at December 31, 2021).
 Includes a $300,000,000 Canadian-denominated 2.95% senior unsecured notes due 2027 (approximately $234,797,000 based on the Canadian/U.S. Dollar exchange rate on December 31, 2021).
 Includes a £550,000,000 4.80% senior unsecured notes due 2028 (approximately $742,500,000 based on the Pounds Sterling/U.S. Dollar exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2021).
 Includes a £500,000,000 4.50% senior unsecured notes due 2034 (approximately $675,000,000 based on the Pounds Sterling/U.S. Dollar exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2021).
The following is a summary of our senior unsecured notes principal activity during the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.
 Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate
Beginning balance $ 11,509,533  3.67% $ 10,427,562  4.03% $ 9,699,984  4.48%
Debt issued 1,750,000  2.57% 1,600,000  1.89% 3,987,790  3.34%
Debt extinguished (1,533,752 ) 2.42% (566,248 ) 3.26% (3,335,290 ) 4.39%
Foreign currency (17,820 ) 4.55% 48,219  4.35% 75,078  4.22%
Ending balance $ 11,707,961  3.67% $ 11,509,533  3.67% $ 10,427,562  4.03%(1,2) (1,3)
(4,5)
(6,7,8)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
93
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following is a summary of our secured debt principal activity for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.
 Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate
Beginning balance $ 2,378,073  3.27% $ 2,993,342  3.63% $ 2,485,71 1 3.90%
Debt issued 23,569  2.83% 62,055  2.55% 343,696  3.11%
Debt assumed — —% — —% 385,145  4.34%
Debt extinguished (132,031 ) 5.86% (632,288 ) 2.21% (230,108 ) 4.35%
Principal payments (65,587 ) 3.40% (62,707 ) 3.63% (54,325 ) 3.75%
Foreign currency (1,712 ) 2.72% 17,671  2.93% 63,223  3.28%
Ending balance $ 2,202,312  3.03% $ 2,378,073  3.27% $ 2,993,342  3.63%
Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Certain agreements require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net
worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. As of December 31, 2021, we were in
compliance in all material respects with all of the covenants under our debt agreements.
12. Derivative Instruments
We are exposed to, among other risks, the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our non-U.S. investments and interest rate risk related to
our capital structure. Our risk management program is designed to manage the exposure and volatility arising from these risks, and utilizes foreign currency forward
contracts, cross currency swap contracts, interest rate swaps, interest rate locks and debt issued in foreign currencies to offset a portion of these risks.
Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Designated as Cash Flow Hedges
For instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is deferred as a component of other
comprehensive income (“OCI”) and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods, during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Gains and losses on
the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in earnings. 
Cash Flow Hedges of Interest Rate Risk
We enter into interest rate swaps in order to maintain a capital structure containing targeted amounts of fixed and floating-rate debt and manage interest rate risk.
Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges involve the receipt of variable amounts from a counterparty in exchange for our fixed-rate payments. These interest
rate swap agreements were used to hedge the variable cash flows associated with variable-rate debt.
Periodically, we enter into and designate interest rate locks to partially hedge the risk of changes in interest payments attributable to increases in the benchmark
interest rate during the period leading up to the probable issuance of fixed-rate debt. We designate our interest rate locks as cash flow hedges. Gains and losses when we
settle our interest rate locks are amortized into income over the life of the related debt, except where a material amount is deemed to be ineffective, which would be
immediately reclassified to the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. Approximately $2,562,000 of losses, which are included in OCI, are expected to be
reclassified into earnings in the next 12 months.
Foreign Currency Forward Contracts and Cross Currency Swap Contracts Designated as Net Investment Hedges
We use foreign currency forward and cross currency forward swap contracts to hedge a portion of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries against fluctuations in
foreign exchange rates. For instruments that are designated and qualify as net investment hedges, the variability in the foreign currency to U.S. Dollar of the instrument
is recorded as a cumulative translation adjustment component of OCI. 
During the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019 we settled certain net investment hedges generating cash proceeds of $14,505,000, necessitating cash
payments of $1,988,000, and generating cash proceeds of $6,716,000, respectively. The balance of the cumulative translation adjustment will be reclassified to earnings
if the hedged investment is sold or substantially liquidated.
Derivative Contracts Undesignated
We use foreign currency exchange contracts to manage existing exposures to foreign currency exchange risk. Gains and losses resulting from the changes in fair value
of these instruments are recorded in interest expense on the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, and are substantially offset by net revaluation impacts
on foreign currency denominated
94
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
balance sheet exposures. In addition, we have several interest rate cap contracts related to variable rate secured debt agreements. Gains and losses resulting from the
changes in fair values of these instruments are also recorded in interest expense.
Equity Warrants
We received equity warrants through our lending activities further described in Note 7, which were accounted for as loan origination fees. The warrants provide us the
right to participate in the capital appreciation of the underlying company above a designated price upon liquidation and contain net settlement terms qualifying as
derivatives under ASC Topic 815. The warrants are classified within receivables and other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These warrants are measured at
fair value with changes in fair value being recognized within gain (loss) on derivatives and financial instruments in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive
Income.
The following presents the notional amount of derivatives and other financial instruments as of the dates indicated (in thousands):
December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Derivatives designated as net investment hedges:
Denominated in Canadian Dollars $ 675,000  $ 625,000  
Denominated in Pound Sterling £ 1,904,708  £ 1,340,708  
Financial instruments designated as net investment hedges:
Denominated in Canadian Dollars $ 250,000  $ 250,000  
Denominated in Pound Sterling £ 1,050,000  £ 1,050,000  
Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges:
Denominated in U.S. Dollars $ 25,000  $ 450,000  
Derivative instruments not designated:
Interest rate caps denominated in U.S. Dollars $ 26,137  $ 26,137  
Forward sales contracts denominated in Canadian Dollars $ 80,000  $ 80,000  
 At December 31, 2021 the maximum maturity date was November 1, 2023.
The following presents the impact of derivative instruments on the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the periods presented (in thousands):
  Year Ended
Description Location December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Gain (loss) on derivative instruments designated as hedges recognized
in income Interest expense $ 23,133 $ 22,698 $ 26,419 
Gain (loss) on derivative instruments not designated as hedges
recognized in income Interest expense $ (433)$ (5,982)$ (2,310)
Gain (loss) on equity warrants recognized in income Gain (loss) on derivatives and financial
instruments, net $ 10,361 $ — $ — 
Gain (loss) on derivative and financial instruments designated as hedges
recognized in OCI OCI $ 79,702 $ (134,369)$ (131,120)
13. Commitments and Contingencies
At December 31, 2021, we had 15 outstanding letter of credit obligations totaling $34,744,000 and expiring during 2022. At December 31, 2021, we had outstanding
construction in progress of $651,389,000 and were committed to providing additional funds of approximately $1,208,913,000 to complete construction. Additionally, at
December 31, 2021, we had outstanding investments classified as in substance real estate of $317,647,000 and were committed to provide additional funds of
$86,644,000 (see Note 8 for additional information). Purchase obligations include $83,363,000 of contingent purchase obligations to fund capital improvements. Rents
due from the tenant are increased to reflect the additional investment in the property.
14. Stockholders’ Equity 
The following is a summary of our stockholders’ equity capital accounts as of the dates indicated:(1)
(1)
95
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Preferred Stock, $ 1.00 par value:
Authorized shares 50,000,000  50,000,000
Issued shares — — 
Outstanding shares — — 
Common Stock, $ 1.00 par value:
Authorized shares 700,000,000  700,000,000  
Issued shares 448,998,438  419,124,469  
Outstanding shares 447,239,477  417,400,602  
Preferred Stock
The following is a summary of our preferred stock activity during the periods presented:
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.
 Shares Dividend Rate Shares Dividend Rate Shares Dividend Rate
Beginning balance — —% — —% 14,369,965  6.50%
Shares converted — —% — —% (14,369,965 ) 6.50%
Ending balance — —% — —% — —%
During the year ended December 31, 2019, we converted all of the outstanding Series I Preferred Stock. Each share was converted into 0.8857 shares of common
stock.
Common Stock
In July 2021, we entered into an amended and restated equity distribution agreement whereby we can offer and sell up to $2,500,000,000 aggregate amount of our
common stock ("ATM Program"). The ATM Program also allows us to enter into forward sale agreements. As of December 31, 2021, we had $1,876,085,000 of
remaining capacity under the ATM Program, which excludes forward sales agreements outstanding for the sale of 5,187,250 shares with maturity dates in 2022 which
we expect to physically settle for cash proceeds of $435,172,000.
On May 1, 2020, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program whereby we may repurchase up to $1 billion of common stock through December 31,
2021 (the "Repurchase Program"). Under this authorization, we are not required to purchase shares but may choose to do so in the open market or through private
transactions at times and amounts based on our evaluation of market conditions and other factors. We expect to finance any share repurchases under the Repurchase
Program using available cash and may use proceeds from borrowings or debt offerings. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we repurchased 201,947 shares at an
average price of $37.89 per share. We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock during the year ended December 31, 2021.
The following is a summary of our common stock issuances during the periods indicated (dollars in thousands, except shares and average price amounts):
96
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Shares Issued Average Price Gross Proceeds Net Proceeds
2019 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances 5,798,979  $ 77.18  $ 447,559  $ 443,929  
2019 Option exercises 10,736  51.32  551 551 
2019 ATM Program issuances 7,855,956  78.15  613,948  611,645  
2019 Preferred stock conversions 12,712,452  — — 
2019 Stock incentive plans, net of forfeitures 203,889  — — 
2019 Totals 26,582,012  $ 1,062,058  $ 1,056,125  
2020 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances 264,153  $ 72.33  $ 19,105  $ 19,105  
2020 Option exercises 251 47.81  12 12 
2020 ATM Program issuances 6,799,978  86.48  588,072  576,196  
2020 Stock incentive plans, net of forfeitures 281,552  — — 
2020 Totals 7,345,934  $ 607,189  $ 595,313  
2021 Option exercises 338 $ 56.21  $ 19 $ 19 
2021 ATM Program issuances 29,667,348 80.41 2,385,683  2,348,182  
2021 Stock incentive plans, net of forfeitures 171,189 — — 
2021 Totals 29,838,875  $ 2,385,702  $ 2,348,201  
Dividends 
During the year ended December 31, 2020, we declared a reduced cash dividend beginning with the quarter ended March 31, 2020. Please refer to Note 19 for
information related to federal income tax of dividends. The following is a summary of our dividend payments (in thousands, except per share amounts):
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
  Per Share Amount Per Share Amount Per Share Amount
Common Stock $ 2.44 $ 1,037,194  $ 2.70 $ 1,120,187  $ 3.48 $ 1,404,977  
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
The following is a summary of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) for the periods presented (in thousands):
 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Foreign currency translation $ (674,306 )$ (621,792 )
Derivative and financial instruments designated as hedges 552,990  473,288  
Total accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) $ (121,316 )$ (148,504 )
15. Stock Incentive Plans
Our 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan (“2016 Plan”) authorizes up to 10,000,000 shares of common stock to be issued at the discretion of the Compensation Committee
of the Board of Directors. Our non-employee directors, officers and key employees are eligible to participate in the 2016 Plan. The 2016 Plan allows for the issuance of,
among other things, stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, deferred stock units, performance units, and dividend equivalent rights. Vesting periods for
options, deferred stock units and restricted shares generally range from three to five years. Options expire ten years from the date of grant.
Under our long-term incentive plan, certain restricted stock awards are market, performance and time-based. For market and performance based awards, we will grant
a target number of restricted stock units, with the ultimate award determined by the total shareholder return and operating performance metrics, measured in each case
over a measurement period of three years. These awards vest after the end of the performance periods. The expected term represents the period from the grant date to the
end of the performance period. Compensation expense for these performance grants is measured based on the probability of achievement of certain performance goals
and is recognized over the performance period. For the portion of the grant for which the award is determined by the operating performance metrics, the compensation
cost is based on the grant date closing price and management’s estimate of corporate achievement of the financial metrics. If the estimated number of performance based
restricted stock to be earned changes, an adjustment will be recorded to recognize the accumulated difference between the revised and previous estimates. For the
portion of the grant determined by the total shareholder return, management used a Monte Carlo model to assess the fair value and compensation cost. Forfeitures are
accounted for as they occur.
The following table summarizes compensation expense recognized for the periods presented (in thousands):
97
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Year Ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019
Stock options $ 1,088  $ — $ — 
Restricted stock 16,724  28,318  25,047  
Total compensation expense $ 17,812  $ 28,318  $ 25,047  
Stock Options
During the year ended December 31, 2021, we granted 311,306 time-based stock options at a weighted average exercise price of $67.17, all of which were
outstanding and non-vested at December 31, 2021. The grant date fair value of $14.64 was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
As of December 31, 2021, there was $3,470,000 of total unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested time-based stock options that is expected to be
recognized over a weighted-average period of 3 years. Time-based stock options outstanding at December 31, 2021 have an aggregate intrinsic value of $2,763,000.
During the year ended December 31, 2021, we granted 832,356 performance-based stock options at a weighted average exercise price of $83.44, all of which were
outstanding and non-vested at December 31, 2021. The grant date fair value of $20.31 was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
These options have a performance condition based on a Funds From Operations goal measured over the performance period of January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2024.
These awards vest over two years after the end of the performance period, with a portion vesting immediately at the end of the performance period. Compensation
expense is measured based on the probability of achievement of the performance goal and is recognized over both the performance period and vesting period. At
December 31, 2021, the performance goal is not probable of being achieved.
Restricted Stock
The fair value of the restricted stock is equal to the market price of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant and is amortized over the vesting periods. As of
December 31, 2021, there was $22,055,000 of total unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested restricted stock that is expected to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of two years. The following table summarizes information about non-vested restricted stock incentive awards as of and for the year ended
December 31, 2021: 
 Restricted Stock
 Number of Shares (000's)Weighted-A verage
Grant Date Fair Value
Non-vested at December 31, 2020 405 $ 69.35  
Vested (208) 63.21  
Granted 470 71.41  
Forfeited or expired (101) 79.92  
Non-vested at December 31, 2021 566 $ 76.28  
Defined Contribution Plan
We sponsor a 401(k) plan which is available to substantially all U.S. employees. We match a percentage of employee contributions up to 5% of an employee's wages
and provide a discretionary profit sharing contribution calculated as a percentage of eligible compensation. We recognized expense of $3,477,000, $3,323,000 and
$2,975,000 during the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively, related to this plan.
16. Earnings Per Share
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share (in thousands, except per share data):
98
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Year Ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019
Numerator for basic earnings per share - net income attributable
 to common stockholders $ 336,138  $ 978,844  $ 1,232,432  
Adjustment for net income (loss) attributable to OP  units (3,020 ) (6,146 ) 806
Numerator for diluted earnings per share $ 333,1 18 $ 972,698  $ 1,233,238  
Denominator for basic earnings per share - weighted average shares 424,976  415,451  401,845  
Effect of dilutive securities:
Non-vested restricted shares 447 519 835 
Redeemable OP  units 1,396  1,396  1,112 
Employee stock purchase program 22 21 16 
Dilutive potential common shares 1,865  1,936  1,963  
Denominator for diluted earnings per share - adjusted weighted average shares 426,841  417,387  403,808  
Basic earnings per share $ 0.79 $ 2.36 $ 3.07 
Diluted earnings per share $ 0.78 $ 2.33 $ 3.05 
As of December 31, 2021, and December 31, 2019, outstanding forward sales agreements for the sale of 5,187,250 shares and 4,935,804 shares, respectively, were not
included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because such forward sales were anti-dilutive for the period. Employee stock options were anti-dilutive for the
periods presented.
17. Disclosure about Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous
market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. A three-level valuation hierarchy exists for disclosures of
fair value measurements based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date. A financial instrument's categorization
within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The three levels are defined below:
• Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
• Level 2 - Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other
inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. 
• Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. 
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate that value: 
Mortgage Loans, Other Real Estate Loans and Non-real Estate Loans Receivable — The fair value of mortgage loans, other real estate loans and non-real estate loans
receivable is generally estimated by using Level 2 and Level 3 inputs such as discounting the estimated future cash flows using the current rates at which similar loans
would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and for the same remaining maturities. 
Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash — The carrying amount approximates fair value. 
Equity Securities — Equity securities are recorded at their fair value based on Level 1 publicly available trading prices. 
Equity Warrants — The fair value of equity warrants is estimated using Level 3 inputs and includes data points such as enterprise value of the underlying HC-One
Group real estate portfolio, marketability discount for private company warrants, dividend yield, volatility and risk-free rate. The enterprise value is driven by projected
cash flows, weighted average cost of capital and a terminal capitalization rate.
Borrowings Under Primary Unsecured Credit Facility and Commercial Paper Program — The carrying amount of the primary unsecured credit facility and commercial
paper program approximates fair value because the borrowings are interest rate adjustable. 
99
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Senior Unsecured Notes — The fair value of the senior unsecured notes payable was estimated based on Level 1 publicly available trading prices. The carrying amount
of the variable rate senior unsecured notes approximates fair value because they are interest rate adjustable. 
Secured Debt — The fair value of fixed rate secured debt is estimated using Level 2 inputs by discounting the estimated future cash flows using the current rates at
which similar loans would be made with similar credit ratings and for the same remaining maturities. The carrying amount of variable rate secured debt approximates
fair value because the borrowings are interest rate adjustable. 
Foreign Currency Forward Contracts, Interest Rate Swaps and Cross Currency Swaps — Foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swaps and cross currency
swaps are recorded in other assets or other liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value that is derived from observable market data, including yield curves and foreign
exchange rates.
Redeemable OP Unitholder Interests — Our redeemable OP unitholder interests are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value using Level 2 inputs unless the fair value
is below the initial amount, in which case the redeemable OP unitholder interests are recorded at the initial amount adjusted for distributions to the unitholders and
income or loss attributable to the unitholders. The fair value is measured using the closing price of our common stock, as units may be redeemed at the election of the
holder for cash or, at our option, one share of our common stock per unit, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. 
The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of our financial instruments are as follows (in thousands):
 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
 Amount Value Amount Value
Financial assets:     
Mortgage loans receivable $ 877,102  $ 932,552  $ 293,752  $ 297,207  
Other real estate loans receivable 191,579  193,999  149,620  152,21 1 
Equity securities 1,608  1,608  4,636  4,636  
Cash and cash equivalents 269,265  269,265  1,545,046  1,545,046  
Restricted cash 77,490  77,490  475,997  475,997  
Non-real estate loans receivable 223,627  241,544  240,269  255,724  
Foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swaps and cross currency
swaps 7,205  7,205  4,668  4,668  
Equity warrants 41,909  41,909  — — 
Financial liabilities:
Borrowings under unsecured credit facility and commercial paper program $ 324,935  $ 324,935  $ — $ — 
Senior unsecured notes 11,613,758  13,139,748  11,420,790  13,093,926  
Secured debt 2,192,261  2,252,107  2,377,930  2,451,782  
Foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swaps and cross currency
swaps 39,296  39,296  118,054  118,054  
Redeemable OP  unitholder interests $ 153,098  $ 153,098  $ 116,240  $ 115,346  
Items Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis 
The market approach is utilized to measure fair value for our financial assets and liabilities reported at fair value on a recurring basis. The market approach uses prices
and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets or liabilities. The following summarizes items measured at fair
value on a recurring basis (in thousands):
 Fair Value Measurements as of December 31, 2021
 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Equity securities $ 1,608  $ 1,608  $ — $ — 
Equity warrants 41,909  — — 41,909  
Foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swaps and cross currency
swaps, net asset (liability) (32,091 ) — (32,091 ) — 
Totals $ 11,426  $ 1,608  $ (32,091 )$ 41,909  
 Please see Note 12 for additional information.
The following table summarizes the change in fair value for equity warrants using unobservable Level 3 inputs for the year ended December 31, 2021 (in thousands):(1)
(1)
100
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Year Ended
 December 31, 2021
Beginning balance $ — 
Warrants acquired 32,419  
Mark-to-market adjustment 10,361  
Foreign currency (871)
Ending balance $ 41,909  
The most significant assumptions utilized in the valuation of the equity warrants are the cash flows of the underlying HC-One Group enterprise, as well as the
terminal capitalization rate of 9.5%.
Items Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis 
In addition to items that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, we also have assets and liabilities in our balance sheet that are measured at fair value on a
nonrecurring basis that are not included in the tables above. Assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interests that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include
those acquired or assumed. Asset impairments (if applicable, see Note 5 for impairments of real property and Note 7 for impairments of loans receivable) are also
measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. We have determined that the fair value measurements included in each of these assets and liabilities rely primarily on
company-specific inputs and our assumptions about the use of the assets and settlement of liabilities, as observable inputs are not available. As such, we have
determined that each of these fair value measurements generally resides within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. We estimate the fair value of real estate and related
intangibles using the income approach and unobservable data such as net operating income and estimated capitalization and discount rates. We also consider local and
national industry market data including comparable sales, and commonly engage an external real estate appraiser to assist us in our estimation of fair value. We estimate
the fair value of assets held for sale based on current sales price expectations or, in the absence of such price expectations, Level 3 inputs described above. We estimate
the fair value of loans receivable using projected payoff valuations based on the expected future cash flows and/or the estimated fair value of collateral, net of sales
costs, if the repayment of the loan is expected to be provided solely by the collateral. We estimate the fair value of secured debt assumed in asset acquisitions using
current interest rates at which similar borrowings could be obtained on the transaction date. 
18. Segment Reporting
We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate. We evaluate our business and make resource allocations on our three operating segments: Seniors Housing
Operating, Triple-net and Outpatient Medical. Our Seniors Housing Operating properties include seniors apartments, assisted living, independent living/continuing care
retirement communities, independent supportive living communities (Canada), care homes with and without nursing (U.K.) and combinations thereof that are owned
and/or operated through RIDEA structures (see Note 19). Our Triple-net properties include the property types described above as well as long-term/post-acute care
facilities. Under the Triple-net segment, we invest in seniors housing and health care real estate through acquisition and financing of primarily single tenant
properties. Properties acquired are primarily leased under triple-net leases and we are not involved in the management of the property. Our Outpatient Medical
properties are typically leased to multiple tenants and generally require a certain level of property management by us.
We evaluate performance based upon consolidated NOI of each segment. We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property operating
expenses. We believe NOI provides investors relevant and useful information as it measures the operating performance of our properties at the property level on an
unleveraged basis. We use NOI to make decisions about resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our properties.
Non-segment revenue consists mainly of interest income on cash investments recorded in other income. Non-segment assets consist of corporate assets including
cash, deferred loan expenses and corporate offices and equipment among others. Non-property specific revenues and expenses are not allocated to individual segments
in determining NOI.
The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies (see Note 2). The results of operations for
all acquisitions described in Note 3 are included in our consolidated results of operations from the acquisition dates and are components of the appropriate segments. All
inter-segment transactions are eliminated.
Summary information for the reportable segments (which excludes unconsolidated entities) during the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 is as follows
(in thousands):
101
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Year Ended December 31, 2021:Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-net Outpatient MedicalNon-segment /
Corporate Total
Resident fees and services $ 3,197,223  $ — $ — $ — $ 3,197,223  
Rental income — 761,441  613,254  — 1,374,695  
Interest income 4,231  124,540  8,792  — 137,563  
Other income 11,796  4,603  13,243  2,992  32,634  
Total revenues 3,213,250  890,584  635,289  2,992  4,742,1 15 
Property operating expenses 2,529,344  49,462  186,939  8,817  2,774,562  
Consolidated net operating income (loss) 683,906  841,122  448,350  (5,825 ) 1,967,553  
Depreciation and amortization 593,565  220,699  223,302  — 1,037,566  
Interest expense 39,327  6,376  17,506  426,644  489,853  
General and administrative expenses — — — 126,727  126,727  
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net — (7,333 ) — — (7,333 )
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net (2,628 ) — (4) 52,506  49,874  
Provision for loan losses, net 394 10,339  (3,463 ) — 7,270  
Impairment of assets 22,317  26,579  2,211 — 51,107  
Other expenses 27,132  4,189  2,523  7,895  41,739  
Income (loss) from continuing operations before income
taxes and other items 3,799  580,273  206,275  (619,597 ) 170,750  
Income tax (expense) benefit — — — (8,713 ) (8,713 )
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities (39,225 ) 20,687  (4,395 ) — (22,933 )
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 6,146  135,881  93,348  — 235,375  
Income (loss) from continuing operations (29,280 ) 736,841  295,228  (628,310 ) 374,479  
Net income (loss) $ (29,280 )$ 736,841  $ 295,228  $ (628,310 )$ 374,479  
Total assets $ 18,851,999  $ 9,710,194  $ 6,204,064  $ 144,068  $ 34,910,325  
102
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Year Ended December 31, 2020:Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-net Outpatient MedicalNon-segment /
Corporate Total
Resident fees and services $ 3,074,022  $ — $ — $ — $ 3,074,022  
Rental income — 733,776  709,584  — 1,443,360  
Interest income 618 62,625  5,913  — 69,156  
Other income 7,223  4,903  4,522  2,781  19,429  
Total revenues 3,081,863  801,304  720,019  2,781  4,605,967  
Property operating expenses 2,326,31 1 53,183  214,948  3,381  2,597,823  
Consolidated net operating income (loss) 755,552  748,121  505,071  (600) 2,008,144  
Depreciation and amortization 544,462  232,604  261,371  — 1,038,437  
Interest expense 54,901  9,477  17,579  432,431  514,388  
General and administrative expenses — — — 128,394  128,394  
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net — 11,049  — — 11,049  
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 12,659  — 1,046  33,344  47,049  
Provision for loan losses, net 671 90,563  3,202  — 94,436  
Impairment of assets 100,741  34,867  — — 135,608  
Other expenses 14,265  22,923  8,218  24,929  70,335  
Income (loss) from continuing operations before income
taxes and other items 27,853  346,638  213,655  (619,698 ) (31,552 )
Income tax (expense) benefit — — — (9,968 ) (9,968 )
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities (33,857 ) 18,462  7,312  — (8,083 )
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 328,249  64,288  695,918  — 1,088,455  
Income (loss) from continuing operations 322,245  429,388  916,885  (629,666 ) 1,038,852  
Net income (loss) $ 322,245  $ 429,388  $ 916,885  $ (629,666 )$ 1,038,852  
Total assets $ 16,044,153  $ 8,547,482  $ 6,522,880  $ 1,369,127  $ 32,483,642  
103
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Year Ended December 31, 2019:Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-net Outpatient MedicalNon-segment /
Corporate Total
Resident fees and services $ 3,448,175  $ — $ — $ — $ 3,448,175  
Rental income — 903,798  684,602  — 1,588,400  
Interest income 36 62,599  1,195  — 63,830  
Other income 8,658  6,246  2,031  3,966  20,901  
Total revenues 3,456,869  972,643  687,828  3,966  5,121,306  
Property operating expenses 2,417,349  53,900  218,793  — 2,690,042  
Consolidated net operating income (loss) 1,039,520  918,743  469,035  3,966  2,431,264  
Depreciation and amortization 553,189  232,626  241,258  — 1,027,073  
Interest expense 67,983  12,892  13,41 1 461,273  555,559  
General and administrative expenses — — — 126,549  126,549  
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net — (4,399 ) — — (4,399 )
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 1,614  — — 82,541  84,155  
Provision for loan losses, net — 18,690  — — 18,690  
Impairment of assets 2,145  11,926  14,062  — 28,133  
Other expenses 26,348  13,771  1,788  10,705  52,612  
Income (loss) from continuing operations before income
taxes and other items 388,241  633,237  198,516  (677,102 ) 542,892  
Income tax (expense) benefit — — — (2,957 ) (2,957 )
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities 12,388  22,985  7,061  — 42,434  
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 528,747  218,322  972 — 748,041  
Income (loss) from continuing operations 929,376  874,544  206,549  (680,059 ) 1,330,410  
Net income (loss) $ 929,376  $ 874,544  $ 206,549  $ (680,059 )$ 1,330,410  
Our portfolio of properties and other investments are located in the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada. Revenues and assets are attributed to the country
in which the property is physically located. The following is a summary of geographic information for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Revenues: Amount % Amount % Amount %
United States $ 3,766,707  79.4 %$ 3,720,155  80.8 %$ 4,205,492  82.1 %
United Kingdom 552,650  11.7 % 451,399  9.8 % 452,698  8.8 %
Canada 422,758  8.9 % 434,413  9.4 % 463,1 16 9.1 %
Total $ 4,742,1 15 100.0  %$ 4,605,967  100.0  %$ 5,121,306  100.0  %
 As of   
 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020   
Assets: Amount % Amount %   
United States $ 28,595,703  81.9 %$ 26,658,659  82.1 %  
United Kingdom 3,938,258  11.3 % 3,352,549  10.3 %  
Canada 2,376,364  6.8 % 2,472,434  7.6 %  
Total $ 34,910,325  100.0  %$ 32,483,642  100.0  %  
 The United States, United Kingdom and Canada represent 75%, 12% and 13%, respectively, of our resident fees and services revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021.(1)
(1)
104
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19. Income Taxes and Distributions 
We elected to be taxed as a REIT commencing with our first taxable year. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, at least 90% of taxable income
(excluding 100% of net capital gains) must be distributed to stockholders. REITs that do not distribute a certain amount of taxable income in the current year are also
subject to a 4% federal excise tax. The main differences between undistributed net income for federal income tax purposes and financial statement purposes are the
recognition of straight-line rent for reporting purposes, basis differences in acquisitions, recording of impairments, differing useful lives and depreciation and
amortization methods for real property and the provision for loan losses for reporting purposes versus bad debt expense for tax purposes. 
Cash distributions paid to common stockholders, for federal income tax purposes, are as follows for the periods presented:
 Year Ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019
Per share:
Ordinary dividend $ 1.4828  $ 1.6389  $ 2.6937  
Long-term capital gain/(loss) 0.8371  1.061 1 0.7863  
Return of capital 0.1201  — — 
Totals $ 2.4400  $ 2.7000  $ 3.4800  
 For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, includes Section 199A dividends of $1.4828, $1.6389 and $2.6937 respectively.
 For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, includes Unrecaptured Section 1250 Gains of $0.4523, $0.3458 and $0.2835, respectively.
Our consolidated provision for income tax expense (benefit) is as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019
Current tax expense $ 10,199  $ 11,358  $ 12,594  
Deferred tax benefit (1,486 ) (1,390 ) (9,637 )
Income tax expense (benefit) $ 8,713  $ 9,968  $ 2,957  
REITs generally are not subject to U.S. federal income taxes on that portion of REIT taxable income or capital gain that is distributed to stockholders. For the tax year
ended December 31, 2021, as a result of ownership of investments in Canada and the U.K., we were subject to foreign income taxes under the respective tax laws of
these jurisdictions. 
The provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily relates to state taxes, foreign taxes, and taxes based on income generated by entities
that are structured as TRSs. For the tax years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, the foreign tax provision/(benefit) amount included in the consolidated
provision for income taxes was $6,787,000, $5,777,000 and $(3,892,000), respectively.
A reconciliation of income taxes, which is computed by applying the federal corporate tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, to the income
tax expense/(benefit) is as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019
Tax at statutory rate on earnings from continuing operations before unconsolidated entities,
noncontrolling interests and income taxes $ 80,470  $ 220,252  $ 280,005  
Increase (decrease) in valuation allowance 19,383  85,881  3,465  
Tax at statutory rate on earnings not subject to federal income taxes (117,931 ) (300,196 ) (311,224 )
Foreign permanent depreciation 1,449  1,504  9,260  
Other dif ferences 25,342  2,527  21,451  
Totals $ 8,713  $ 9,968  $ 2,957  
 Excluding purchase price accounting.
Each TRS and foreign entity subject to income taxes is a tax paying component for purposes of classifying deferred tax assets and liabilities. The tax effects of taxable
and deductible temporary differences, as well as tax asset/(liability) attributes, are summarized as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
(1)
(1)
105
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Year Ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019
Investments and property , primarily dif ferences in investment basis, depreciation and amortization, the
basis of land assets and the treatment of interests and certain costs $ (32,616 )$ (24,085 )$ (13,064 )
Operating loss and interest deduction carryforwards 247,015  196,634  127,525  
Expense accruals and other 53,367  72,459  43,056  
Valuation allowances (264,321 ) (244,938 ) (159,057 )
Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) $ 3,445  $ 70 $ (1,540 )
On the basis of the evaluations performed as required by the codification, valuation allowances totaling $264,321,000 were recorded on U.S. taxable REIT
subsidiaries as well as entities in other jurisdictions to limit the deferred tax assets to the amount that we believe is more likely than not realizable. However, the amount
of the deferred tax asset considered realizable could be adjusted if (i) estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period are reduced or increased or (ii)
objective negative evidence in the form of cumulative losses is no longer present (and additional weight may be given to subjective evidence such as our projections for
growth). The valuation allowance rollforward is summarized as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019
Beginning balance $ 244,938  $ 159,057  $ 155,592  
Expense (benefit) 19,383  85,881  3,465  
Ending balance $ 264,321  $ 244,938  $ 159,057  
As a result of certain acquisitions, we are subject to corporate level taxes for any related asset dispositions that may occur during the five-year period immediately
after such assets were owned by a C corporation (“built-in gains tax”). The amount of income potentially subject to this special corporate level tax is generally equal to
the lesser of (i) the excess of the fair value of the asset over its adjusted tax basis as of the date it became a REIT asset, or (ii) the actual amount of gain. Some but not all
gains recognized during this period of time could be offset by available net operating losses and capital loss carryforwards. During the year ended December 31, 2017,
we acquired certain additional assets with built-in gains as of the date of acquisition that could be subject to the built-in gains tax if disposed of prior to the expiration of
the applicable five-year period. We have not recorded a deferred tax liability as a result of the potential built-in gains tax based on our intentions with respect to such
properties and available tax planning strategies.
Given the applicable statute of limitations, we generally are subject to audit by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for the year ended December 31, 2018 and
subsequent years. The statute of limitations may vary in the states in which we own properties or conduct business. We do not expect to be subject to audit by state
taxing authorities for any year prior to the year ended December 31, 2017. We are also subject to audit by the Canada Revenue Agency and provincial authorities
generally for periods subsequent to May 2017 related to entities acquired or formed in connection with acquisitions, and by the U.K.’s HM Revenue & Customs for
periods subsequent to August 2015 related to entities acquired or formed in connection with acquisitions. 
At December 31, 2021, we had a net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforward related to the REIT of $340,827,000. In addition, we completed the acquisition of Holiday
Retirement, which included NOLs of $382,399,000. Due to our uncertainty regarding the realization of certain deferred tax assets, we have not recorded a deferred tax
asset related to NOLs generated by the REIT. These amounts can be used to offset future taxable income (and/or taxable income for prior years if an audit determines
that tax is owed), if any. The REIT will be entitled to utilize NOLs and tax credit carryforwards only to the extent that REIT taxable income exceeds our deduction for
dividends paid. The NOL carryforwards generated through December 31, 2017 will expire through 2037. Beginning with the tax years after December 31, 2017, the law
eliminates the NOL carryback period for REITs, replaces the 20-year NOL carryforward period with an indefinite carryforward period and, with respect to tax years
beginning after 2020, limits the use of NOLs to 80% of taxable income.
At December 31, 2021 and 2020, we had an NOL carryforward related to Canadian entities of $316,821,000 and $262,345,000 respectively. These Canadian losses
have a 20-year carryforward period. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, we had an NOL carryforward related to U.K. entities of $193,998,000 and $207,085,000
respectively. These U.K. losses do not have a finite carryforward period. 
106
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
20. Variable Interest Entities 
We have entered into joint ventures to own certain seniors housing and outpatient medical assets which are deemed to be VIEs. We have concluded that we are the
primary beneficiary of these VIEs based on a combination of operational control of the joint venture and the rights to receive residual returns or the obligation to absorb
losses arising from the joint ventures. Except for capital contributions associated with the initial joint venture formations, the joint ventures have been and are expected
to be funded from the ongoing operations of the underlying properties. Accordingly, such joint ventures have been consolidated, and the table below summarizes the
balance sheets of consolidated VIEs in the aggregate (in thousands):
 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Assets:
Net real estate investments $ 445,776  $ 454,333  
Cash and cash equivalents 9,964  15,547  
Receivables and other assets 7,617  11,171  
Total assets $ 463,357  $ 481,051  
Liabilities and equity:
Secured debt $ 163,519  $ 165,671  
Lease liabilities 1,324  1,325  
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 12,394  14,997  
Total equity 286,120  299,058  
Total liabilities and equity $ 463,357  $ 481,051  
 Note that assets of the consolidated VIEs can only be used to settle obligations relating to such VIEs. Liabilities of the consolidated VIEs represent claims against the specific assets of the VIEs.(1)
(1)
107
Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
Not applicable.
Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
An evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, of the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of the end of
the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and
procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The
Company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary
to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.
Management has assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021 based on the criteria established by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) in a report entitled Internal Control — Integrated Framework.
Based on this assessment, using the criteria above, management concluded that the Company’s system of internal control over financial reporting was effective as of
December 31, 2021.
The independent registered public accounting firm of Ernst & Young LLP, as auditors of the Company’s consolidated financial statements, has issued an attestation
report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
No change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) occurred during the
fourth quarter of the one-year period covered by this report that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting.
108
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Welltower Inc. 
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited Welltower Inc. and subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control –
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion,
Welltower Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on
the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance
sheets of Welltower Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, the related consolidated statements of comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, and the related notes and financial statement schedules listed in the index at Item 15(a) and our report
dated February 16, 2022 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to
be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
/s/  Ernst & Young LLP
 
Toledo, Ohio
February 16, 2022
109
Item 9B. Other Information
None.
Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections
None.
PART III 
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the headings “Election of Directors,” “Corporate Governance,”
“Executive Officers,” and “Security Ownership of Directors and Management and Certain Beneficial Owners — Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) prior to April 30, 2022. 
We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to our directors, officers and employees. The code is posted on the Internet at
www.welltower.com/investors/governance. Any amendment to, or waivers from, the code that relate to any officer or director of the company will be promptly disclosed
on the Internet at www.welltower.com. 
In addition, the Board has adopted charters for the Audit, Compensation and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committees. These charters are posted on the Internet
at www.welltower.com/investors/governance. Please refer to “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations –
Executive Summary – Corporate Governance” in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of corporate governance. 
The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference
only. 
Item 11. Executive Compensation 
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the headings “Executive Compensation” and “Director
Compensation” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior to April 30, 2022.
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the headings “Security Ownership of Directors and Management
and Certain Beneficial Owners” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior to April
30, 2022.
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the headings “Corporate Governance — Independence and
Meetings” and “Security Ownership of Directors and Management and Certain Beneficial Owners — Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in our definitive
proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior to April 30, 2022.
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the heading “Ratification of the Appointment of the Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior to April 30, 2022.
110
PART IV
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
(a)     1. Our Consolidated Financial Statements are included in Part II, Item 8:  
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 42) 71
Consolidated Balance Sheets – December 31, 2021 and 2020 73
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income — Years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 74
Consolidated Statements of Equity — Years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 76
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows — Years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 77
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 78
2. The following Financial Statement Schedules are included beginning on page 119
III – Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
IV – Mortgage Loans on Real Estate 
All other schedules have been omitted because they are inapplicable or not required or the information is included elsewhere in the Consolidated Financial
Statements or notes thereto.
3.     Exhibits:
The exhibits listed below are either filed with this Form 10-K or incorporated by reference in accordance with Rule 12b-32 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934.
111
2.1    Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 25, 2018, by and among the Company, Potomac Acquisition LLC, Quality Care Properties, Inc. and certain
subsidiaries of Quality Care Properties, Inc. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed April 26, 2018 (File No. 001-08923),
and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(a)  Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 20, 2000 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(b)     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form
10-K filed March 20, 2000 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(c)     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed June 13, 2003 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(d)     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.9 to the Company’s Form
10-Q filed August 9, 2007 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(e)   Certificate of Change of Location of Registered Office and of Registered Agent of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s
Form 10-Q filed August 6, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(f)     Certificate of Designation of 6.50% Series I Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to
the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 7, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(g)     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed May 10, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(h)     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed May 6, 2014 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(i)      Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed September 30, 2015 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.2     Seventh Amended and Restated By-laws of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed May 6, 2019 (File No. 001-
08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(a)    Indenture, dated as of March 15, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
4.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 15, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(b)     Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of March 15, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 15, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(c)    Amendment No. 1 to Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of June 18, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed June 18, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(d)    Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of April 7, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed April 7, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(e)     Amendment No. 1 to Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of June 8, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed June 8, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
112
4.1(f)    Supplemental Indenture No. 3, dated as of September 10, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed September 13, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(g)   Supplemental Indenture No. 4, dated as of November 16, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 16, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(h)     Supplemental Indenture No. 5, dated as of March 14, 2011, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 14, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(i)     Supplemental Indenture No. 6, dated as of April 3, 2012, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed April 4, 2012 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(j)    Supplemental Indenture No. 7, dated as of December 6, 2012, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed December 11, 2012 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(k)     Supplemental Indenture No. 8, dated as of October 7, 2013, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed October 9, 2013 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).  
4.1(l)     Supplemental Indenture No. 9, dated as of November 20, 2013, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 20, 2013 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(m)   Supplemental Indenture No. 10, dated as of November 25, 2014, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 25, 2014 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(n)     Supplemental Indenture No. 11, dated as of May 26, 2015, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed May 27, 2015 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(o)    Amendment No. 1 to Supplemental Indenture No. 11, dated as of October 19, 2015, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company,
N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed October 20, 2015 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).
4.1(p)     Supplemental Indenture No. 12, dated as of March 1, 2016, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 3, 2016 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(q)    Supplemental Indenture No. 13, dated as of April 10, 2018, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed April 10, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(r)    Supplemental Indenture No. 14, dated as of August 16, 2018, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed August 16, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(s)    Supplemental Indenture No. 15, dated as of February 15, 2019 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Form 8-K filed February 15, 2019 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(t)     Supplemental Indenture No. 16, dated as of August 19, 2019, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's Form 8-K filed August 19, 2019 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(u)     Supplemental Indenture No. 17, dated as of December 16, 2019, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with
the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Form 8-K filed December 16, 2019 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
113
4.1(v)    Supplemental Indenture No. 18, dated as of June 30, 2020, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Form 8-K filed June 30, 2020 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(w)    Supplemental Indenture No. 19, dated as of March 25, 2021, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Form 8-K filed on March 25, 2021 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(x)    Supplemental Indenture No. 20, dated as of June 28, 2021, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Form 8-K filed on June 28, 2021 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(y)    Supplemental Indenture No. 21, dated as of November 19, 2021, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Form 8-K filed on November 19, 2021 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.2    Form of Indenture for Senior Subordinated Debt Securities (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form S-3 (File No. 333-2250004) filed
May 17, 2018, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.3    Form of Indenture for Junior Subordinated Debt Securities (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form S-3 (File No. 333-2250004) filed
May 17, 2018, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.4(a)      Indenture, dated as of November 25, 2015, by and among HCN Canadian Holdings-1 LP, the Company and BNY Trust Company of Canada (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.5(a) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 18, 2016 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.4(b)   First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 25, 2015, by and among HCN Canadian Holdings-1 LP, the Company and BNY Trust Company of Canada
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.5(b) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 18, 2016 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).
4.4(c)    Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 20, 2019, by and among HCN Canadian Holdings-1 LP, the Company and BNY Trust Company of
Canada (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.4(c) to the Company's Form 10-K filed February 14, 2020 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).
4.5    Description of Securities of the Registrant (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.5 to the Company's Form 10-K filed February 14, 2020 (File No. 001-08923),
and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
10.1(a)    Credit Agreement dated as of July 19, 2018 by and among the Company; the lenders listed therein; KeyBank National Association, as administrative agent,
L/C issuer and a swingline lender; Bank of America, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as co-syndication agents; Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as
documentation agent; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc., as U.S. joint lead arrangers; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc.
and RBC Capital Markets, as Canadian joint lead arrangers; and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as joint
book runners (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed July 24, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).
10.1(b)    First Amendment, dated April 26, 2019, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of July 19, 2018, by and among the Company; the lenders listed therein; KeyBank
National Association, as administrative agent, L/C issuer and a swingline lender; Bank of America, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as co-syndication
agents; Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as documentation agent; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., KeyBanc
Capital Markets Inc. and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as U.S. joint lead arrangers; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A., KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and RBC Capital Markets, as Canadian joint lead arrangers; and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as joint book runners (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed April 30,
2019 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
10.1(c)    Credit Agreement, dated as of June 4, 2021, by and among the Company; the lenders listed therein; KeyBank National Association, as administrative agent and
L/C issuer; BofA Securities, Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as joint book runners; BofA Securities, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., KeyBanc Capital
Markets Inc. and Wells Fargo Securities LLC, as U.S. joint lead arrangers; BofA Securities, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc.
and RBC Capital Markets, as Canadian joint lead arrangers; Bank of America, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as co-syndication agents; Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A., MUFG Bank, Ltd., Barclays Bank PLC, Citibank,
114
N.A., Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs Bank USA, Mizuho Bank, Ltd., Morgan Stanley Bank,
N.A., PNC Bank, National Association and Royal Bank of Canada, as co-documentation agents; BNP Paribas, Capital One, National Association, Citizens
Bank, N.A., Fifth Third Bank, National Association, The Huntington National Bank, Regions Bank, The Bank of Nova Scotia, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
Corporation, TD Bank, NA, Truist Bank and Bank of Montreal, as co-senior managing agents and Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, as
sustainability structuring agent. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s 8-K filed June 8, 2021 (File No. 001-08923) and incorporated by
reference herein).
10.2    Settlement Agreement by and between Thomas J. DeRosa and Welltower Inc. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed
October 29, 2020 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.3     Form of Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each director, executive officer and officer of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed February 18, 2005 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.4    Summary of Director Compensation (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Form 10-Q filed August 1, 2019 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated by reference thereto).*
10.5(a)     Welltower Inc. 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed May 10, 2016 (File No. 001-
08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.5(b)    Form of Restricted Stock Grant Notice for Executive Officers under the 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.14(b) to the
Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.5(c)    Form of Restricted Stock Grant Notice for Senior Vice Presidents under the 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.14(c) to
the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.5(d)    Form of Deferred Stock Unit Grant Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
10.14(d) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.6(a) Welltower Inc. 2016-2018 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed August 2, 2016 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.6(b)     Form of Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2016-2018 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
10.15(b) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.7(a) Welltower Inc. 2017-2019 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 5, 2017 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.7(b) Form of Award Notice under the 2017-2019 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.16(b) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed
February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.7(c) Welltower Inc. 2017-2019 Long-Term Incentive Program – Bridge 1 (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed November 7,
2017 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.7(d) Form of Award Notice under the 2017-2019 Long Term Incentive Program - Bridge 1 (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.16(d) to the Company’s Form
10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.7(e) Welltower Inc. 2017-2019 Long-Term Incentive Program – Bridge 2 (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed November 7,
2017 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.7(f)     Form of Award Notice under the 2017-2019 Long Term Incentive Program - Bridge 2 (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.16(f) to the Company’s Form
10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.8(a) Welltower Inc. 2018-2020 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.17(a) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
115
10.8(b) Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2018-2020 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.17(b) to the
Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.9(a) Welltower Inc. 2019-2021 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.14(a) to the Company's Form 10-K filed February 25, 2019
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.9(b) Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2019-2021 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.14(b) to the
Company's Form 10-K filed February 25, 2019 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.10     2019 Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Form 10-Q filed October 30, 2019 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.11(a)    Welltower Inc. 2020-2022 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.14(a) to the Company's Form 10-K filed February 14,
2020 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.11(b) Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2020-2022 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.14(b) to the
Company's Form 10-K filed February 14, 2020 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.12    Executive Employment Agreement, dated May 19, 2021, between Welltower Inc. and Shankh Mitra (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 99.1 to the
Company's Form 8-K filed May 19, 2021 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.13    Employment Offer Letter, dated May 20, 2021, between Welltower Inc. and John F. Burkhart (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's
Form 10-Q filed July 30, 2021 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.14    Welltower Inc. Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2022 (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the
Company's Form 10-Q filed November 5, 2021 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.15    Equity Distribution Agreement, dated as of May 4, 2021, between Welltower Inc. and the sales agent and forward sellers named therein and the related forward
purchasers (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 1.1 to the Company's Form 8-K filed May 4, 2021 (File No. 001-08923) and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).
10.16    Form of Master Forward Sale Confirmation (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 1.2 to the Company's Form 8-K filed May 4, 2021 (File No. 001-08923) and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).
10.17(a)    Welltower Inc. 2021-2023 Long-Term Incentive Program.*
10.17(b) Form of Long-Term Incentive Program Award Agreement under the 2021-2023 Long-Term Incentive Program.*
10.18(a)    Welltower Inc. 2022-2024 Long-Term Incentive Program.*
10.18(b)    Form of Long-Term Incentive Program Award Agreement under the 2022-2024 Long-Term Incentive Program.*
10.19(a)    2022 Outperformance Program.*
10.19(b)    Form of Outperformance Program Award Agreement under the 2022 Outperformance Program.*
21           Subsidiaries of the Company.
23           Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accounting firm.
24           Powers of Attorney.
31.1        Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer.
31.2        Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer.
32.1        Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by Chief Executive Officer.
32.2        Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by Chief Financial Officer.
116
101.INS   Inline XBRL Instance Document. The instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline
XBRL document.
101.SCH   Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document
101.CAL   Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document
101.LAB   Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document
101.PRE    Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document
101.DEF    Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document
104    The cover page from the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, formatted in Inline XBRL (included in Exhibit 101)
                  
*  Management Contract or Compensatory Plan or Arrangement.
Item 16. Form 10-K Summary
None.
117
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
Date:  February 16, 2022
WELLTOWER INC. 
By: /s/  Shankh Mitra                                             
Shankh Mitra,
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Investment Officer and Director
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below on February 16, 2022 by the following persons on behalf of
the Registrant and in the capacities indicated. 
/s/  Kenneth J. Bacon ** /s/  Johnese M. Spisso **
Kenneth J. Bacon, Chairman and Director Johnese M. Spisso, Director
  
/s/  Karen B. DeSalvo ** /s/  Kathryn M. Sullivan **
Karen B. DeSalvo, Director Kathryn M. Sullivan, Director
  
/s/  Jeffrey H. Donahue ** /s/  Shankh Mitra **
Jeffrey H. Donahue, Director Shankh Mitra, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Investment Officer and Director
 (Principal Executive Officer)
/s/  Philip L. Hawkins ** /s/  Timothy G. McHugh **
Philip L. Hawkins, Director Timothy G. McHugh, Executive Vice President - Chief
            Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)
/s/  Dennis G. Lopez ** /s/  Joshua T. Fieweger**
Dennis G. Lopez, Director Joshua T. Fieweger, Chief Accounting Officer
 (Principal Accounting Officer)
/s/  Ade J. Patton **
Ade J. Patton, Director
/s/  Diana W. Reid ** **By:     /s/  Shankh Mitra          
Diana W. Reid, Director                           Shankh Mitra, Attorney-in-Fact
/s/  Sergio D. Rivera **
Sergio D. Rivera, Director
118
Welltower Inc.  
Schedule III  
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  
December 31, 2021  
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:           
Adderbury , UK $ — $ 2,144  $ 12,549  $ 1,003  $ 2,269  $ 13,427  $ 1,874  2015 2017 Banbury Road
Albertville, AL — 170 6,203  1,246  176 7,443  2,506  2010 1999 151 Woodham Dr .
Alexandria, VA — 8,294  49,673  — 8,294  49,673  5,132  2016 2018 5550 Cardinal Place
Alexandria, VA — 12,225  11,823  9,485  12,225  21,308  375 2021 1972 5100 Fillmore Avenue
Altrincham, UK — 4,244  25,187  3,867  4,644  28,654  8,737  2012 2009 295 Hale Road
Amarillo, TX — 719 10,378  1,213  719 11,591  434 2021 1985 4707 Bell Street
Amherst, NY — 1,182  11,413  — 1,182  11,413  1,701  2019 2013 1880 Sweet Home Road
Amherstview , ON — 473 4,446  799 526 5,192  1,362  2015 1974 4567 Bath Road
Anderson, SC — 710 6,290  1,474  712 7,762  4,528  2003 1986 311 Simpson Rd.
Ankeny , IA — 1,129  10,270  322 1,164  10,557  1,809  2016 2012 1275 SW  State Street
Apple Valley , CA — 480 16,639  2,328  486 18,961  6,306  2010 1999 11825 Apple Valley Rd.
Arlington, TX — 1,660  37,395  4,524  1,660  41,919  13,543  2012 2000 1250 West Pioneer Parkway
Arlington, TX — 894 12,351  652 894 13,003  488 2021 1996 2315 Little Road
Arlington, VA — 8,385  31,198  16,488  8,393  47,678  19,621  2017 1992 900 N Taylor Street
Arlington, VA — — 2,338  2,529  77 4,790  987 2018 1992 900 N Taylor Street
Arnprior , ON — 788 6,283  1,111 862 7,320  2,197  2013 1991 15 Arthur Street
Athens, GA — — 76 — — 76 4 2021 2000 755 Epps Bridge Parkway
Atlanta, GA — 2,058  14,914  4,249  2,080  19,141  13,216  1997 1999 1460 S Johnson Ferry Rd.
Atlanta, GA — 2,100  20,603  2,349  2,206  22,846  6,261  2014 2000 1000 Lenox Park Blvd NE
Austin, TX — 880 9,520  3,188  885 12,703  7,012  1999 1998 12429 Scofield Farms Dr .
Austin, TX — 1,560  21,413  877 1,574  22,276  4,897  2014 2013 11330 Farrah Lane
Austin, TX — 4,200  74,850  2,231  4,200  77,081  14,607  2015 2014 4310 Bee Caves Road
Austin, TX — 4,832  18,499  2,132  4,832  20,631  514 2021 1989 11279 Taylor Draper Ln
Bagshot, UK — 4,960  29,881  8,287  5,446  37,682  11,738  2012 2009 14 - 16 London Road
Bakersfield, CA — 1,127  14,334  792 1,127  15,126  468 2021 1988 3201 Columbus
Ballston Spa, NY — 5,540  17,901  173 5,540  18,074  794 2020 2019 2000 Carlton Hollow Way
Banstead, UK — 6,695  55,113 13,277  7,380  67,705  20,91 1 2012 2005 Croydon Lane
Bartlesville, OK — 2,339  10,608  1,393  2,339  12,001  486 2021 2000 2633 Mission Drive SE
Basingstoke, UK — 3,420  18,853  2,581  3,742  21,112 4,602  2014 2012 Grove Road
Basking Ridge, NJ — 2,356  37,710  2,657  2,395  40,328  11,280  2013 2002 404 King Geor ge Road
Bassett, UK — 4,874  32,304  10,624  5,347  42,455  14,635  2013 2006 111 Bur gess Road
Bath, UK — 2,696  11,876  1,160  2,854  12,878  1,802  2015 2017 Clarks Way, Rush Hill
Baton Rouge, LA 12,930  790 29,436  1,648  939 30,935  8,675  2013 2009 9351 Siegen Lane
Baton Rouge, LA — 1,605  6,356  361 1,605  6,717  270 2021 1989 8680 Jef ferson Highway
Beaconsfield, UK — 5,566  50,952  6,169  6,102  56,585  15,534  2013 2009 30-34 Station Road
Beaconsfield, QC — 1,149  17,484  2,222  1,308  19,547  6,705  2013 2008 505 Elm Avenue
Beaver , PA 2,020  — — — — — — 2020 1900 1225 Western Ave
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:           
Beavercreek, OH — 981 11,210  — 981 11,210  761 2019 2020 2475 Lillian Lane
Beckenham, UK — 21,888  36,713  — 21,888  36,713  202 2019 2021 2 Roman Way
Bee Cave, TX — 1,820  21,084  883 1,832  21,955  3,900  2016 2014 14058 A Bee Cave Parkway
Bellevue, WA — 2,800  19,004  3,034  2,816  22,022  7,552  2013 1998 15928 NE 8th Street
Bellevue, WA — 6,307  9,036  596 6,307  9,632  270 2021 1905 13350 SE 26th Street
Bellevue, WA — 46,352  31,794  10,913  46,352  42,707  418 2021 1986 919 109th Avenue North East
Bellingham, WA — 1,500  19,861  2,351  1,507  22,205  7,338  2010 1996 4415 Columbine Dr .
Bellingham, WA — 1,290  16,292  1,261  1,290  17,553  1,842  2020 1999 848 W Orchard Dr
Belmont, CA — — 35,300  2,685  178 37,807  11,319  2013 2002 1010 Alameda de Las Pulgas
Berea, OH 5,205  — — — — — — 2020 1900 45 Sheldon Road
Bethel Park, P A — 1,643  12,965  — 1,643  12,965  1,294  2019 2019 631 McMurray Road
Bethel Park, P A — 3,476  11,635  1,152  3,476  12,787  442 2021 1998 2960 Bethel Church Road
Bethesda, MD — — 45,309  1,607  3 46,913  13,229  2013 2009 8300 Burdett Road
Bethesda, MD — — — 69,731  3,513  66,218  4,943  2016 2018 4925 Battery Lane
Bethesda, MD — — 45 1,161  — 1,206  472 2013 2009 8300 Burdett Road
Bethesda, MD — — 212 926 — 1,138  803 2013 2009 8300 Burdett Road
Birmingham, UK — 151 19,858  — 151 19,858  5,322  2013 2006 5 Church Road, Edgbaston
Birmingham, UK — 1,480  13,014  1,739  1,620  14,613  2,069  2015 2016 47 Bristol Road South
Blainville, QC — 2,077  8,902  1,796  2,335  10,440  3,913  2013 2008 50 des Chateaux Boulevard
Bloomfield Hills, MI — 2,000  35,662  1,550  2,133  37,079  10,468  2013 2009 6790 Telegraph Road
Boca Raton, FL 32,270  6,565  111,247  28,777  6,991  139,598  32,618  2018 1994 6343 Via De Sonrise Del Sur
Boise, ID — 1,391  16,067  5,535  2,220  20,773  3,535  2019 1999 10250 W Smoke Ranch Drive
Boise, ID — 1,625  9,547  921 1,625  10,468  305 2021 1905 7250 Poplar Street
Borehamwood, UK — 5,367  41,937  5,435  5,912  46,827  13,810  2012 2003 Edgwarebury Lane
Bothell, WA — 1,350  13,439  7,063  1,350  20,502  5,500  2015 1988 10605 NE 185th Street
Boulder , CO — 2,994  27,458  3,010  3,150  30,312  10,239  2013 2003 3955 28th Street
Bournemouth, UK — 5,527  42,547  6,007  6,070  48,01 1 13,670  2013 2008 42 Belle Vue Road
Bradenton, FL — 4,664  10,136  1,066  4,664  11,202  254 2021 1987 1055 301 Blvd E
Braintree, MA — — 41,290  1,614  100 42,804  12,364  2013 2007 618 Granite Street
Brampton, ON 46,020  10,196  59,989  5,546  10,885  64,846  16,071  2015 2009 100 Ken Whillans Drive
Brandon, MS — 1,220  10,241  2,118 1,220  12,359  3,360  2010 1999 140 Castlewoods Blvd
Bremerton, WA — 2,417  22,627  1,825  2,417  24,452  2,226  2020 1999 966 Oyster Bay Ct
Bremerton, WA — 2,145  6,200  1,088  2,145  7,288  493 2021 1985 2707 Clare Ave
Brentwood, UK — 8,537  45,869  6,303  9,342  51,367  7,297  2016 2013 London Road
Brick, NJ — 1,170  17,372  1,957  1,218  19,281  5,996  2010 1998 515 Jack Martin Blvd
Brick, NJ — 690 17,125  6,200  695 23,320  6,055  2010 1999 1594 Route 88
Bridgewater , NJ — 1,730  48,201  3,108  1,774  51,265  14,647  2010 1999 2005 Route 22 West
Brockport, NY — 1,500  23,496  621 1,642  23,975  5,765  2015 1999 90 West Avenue
Brockville, ON 4,142  484 7,445  1,312  532 8,709  1,982  2015 1996 1026 Bridlewood Drive
Broken Arrow , OK — — 39 — — 39 2 2021 2002 2601 S Elm Place
Brookfield, WI — 1,300  12,830  361 1,300  13,191  2,904  2012 2013 1105 Davidson Road
Broomfield, CO — 4,140  44,547  15,299  10,140  53,846  23,208  2013 2009 400 Summit Blvd
Brossard, QC 9,674  5,499  31,854  3,788  5,802  35,339  9,920  2015 1989 2455 Boulevard Rome(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:           
Buckingham, UK — 2,979  13,880  2,361  3,302  15,918  3,555  2014 1883 Church Street
Buffalo Grove, IL — 2,850  49,129  4,771  2,850  53,900  15,467  2012 2003 500 McHenry Road
Burbank, CA — 4,940  43,466  5,651  4,940  49,117 14,714  2012 2002 455 E. Angeleno Avenue
Burbank, CA 18,070  3,610  50,817  4,423  3,610  55,240  9,995  2016 1985 2721 Willow Street
Burke, VA — — — 52,686  2,616  50,070  3,810  2016 2018 9617 Burke Lake Road
Burleson, TX — 3,150  10,437  723 3,150  11,160  2,305  2012 2014 621 Old Highway 1 187
Burlingame, CA — — 62,786  231 — 63,017  10,427  2016 2015 1818 Trousdale Avenue
Burlington, ON 16,974  1,309  19,31 1 2,801  1,431  21,990  6,253  2013 1990 500 Appleby Line
Burlington, MA — 2,443  34,354  1,730  2,578  35,949  10,975  2013 2005 24 Mall Road
Burlington, WA — 877 15,986  — 877 15,986  2,359  2019 1999 410 S Norris St
Burlington, WA — 768 8,268  — 768 8,268  1,391  2019 1996 112 / 210 North Skagit Street
Bushey , UK — 12,690  36,482  3,196  13,433  38,935  4,088  2015 2018 Elton House, Elton Way
Calgary , AB 10,339  2,252  37,415  4,627  2,477  41,817  12,235  2013 2003 20 Promenade Way SE
Calgary , AB 11,644  2,793  41,179  4,708  3,044  45,636  13,164  2013 1998 80 Edenwold Drive NW
Calgary , AB 9,301  3,122  38,971  5,127  3,446  43,774  12,41 1 2013 1998 150 Scotia Landing NW
Calgary , AB 20,268  3,431  28,983  4,473  3,711 33,176  8,833  2013 1989 9229 16th Street SW
Calgary , AB 23,968  2,385  36,776  5,797  2,590  42,368  8,723  2015 2006 2220-162nd Avenue SW
Camberley , UK — 9,974  39,168  3,242  10,557  41,827  5,253  2016 2017 Pembroke Broadway
Camberley , UK — 2,654  5,736  19,840  5,877  22,353  3,301  2014 2016 Fernhill Road
Camillus, NY — 1,249  7,360  5,401  2,082  11,928  1,830  2019 2016 3877 Milton Avenue
Cardif f, UK — 3,191  12,566  4,153  3,668  16,242  5,267  2013 2007 127 Cyncoed Road
Cardif f by the Sea, CA 34,123  5,880  64,71 1 6,249  5,880  70,960  22,681  2011 2009 3535 Manchester Avenue
Carmel, IN — 2,766  50,326  3,093  2,766  53,419  225 2021 2017 689 Pro-Med Ln
Carmichael, CA 23,708  739 7,698  37,589  2,440  43,586  4,385  2019 2014 4717 Engle Road
Carol Stream, IL — 1,730  55,048  4,951  1,730  59,999  17,754  2012 2001 545 Belmont Lane
Carrollton, TX — 4,280  31,444  1,658  4,280  33,102  6,998  2013 2010 2105 North Josey Lane
Carrollton, GA — 2,537  8,183  976 2,537  9,159  548 2021 1996 150 Cottage Landing
Carson City , NV — 1,601  22,159  1,383  1,601  23,542  615 2021 1986 2120 E Long
Cary , NC — 740 45,240  1,168  742 46,406  11,968  2013 2009 1206 West Chatham Street
Cary , NC — 6,112 70,008  10,589  6,155  80,554  16,202  2018 1999 300 Kildaire Woods Drive
Cedar Falls, IA — 1,259  9,188  742 1,259  9,930  344 2021 1997 2603 Orchard Drive
Cedar Hill, TX — 1,971  24,590  — 1,971  24,590  855 2020 2020 1240 East Pleasant Run
Cedar Park, TX — 1,750  15,664  950 1,750  16,614  2,534  2016 2015 800 C-Bar Ranch Trail
Cerritos, CA — — 27,494  7,263  — 34,757  9,712  2016 2002 11000 New Falcon Way
Charleston, IL — 552 740 70 552 810 120 2021 2001 300 Lincoln Highway Road
Charleston, SC — 2,912  18,935  882 2,912  19,817  498 2021 2005 1451 Tobias Gadson Blvd.
Charlotte, NC — 5,279  17,582  1,743  5,279  19,325  681 2021 1987 5512 Carmel Road
Charlottesville, VA — 4,651  91,468  21,158  4,831  112,446  21,386  2018 1991 2610 Barracks Road
Chatham, ON 77 1,098  12,462  4,327  1,270  16,617  4,259  2015 1965 25 Keil Drive North
Chattanooga, TN — 3,373  14,108  1,683  3,373  15,791  598 2021 1998 7511 Shallowford Road
Chelmsford, MA — 1,040  10,951  6,221  1,131  17,081  5,975  2003 1997 4 Technology Dr .
Chelmsford, MA — 2,364  31,460  1,683  2,364  33,143  840 2021 1995 20 Summer Street
Chertsey , UK — 9,566  25,886  3,954  10,125  29,281  3,624  2015 2018 Bittams Lane
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:           
Chesapeake, VA — 2,214  20,472  2,094  2,214  22,566  760 2021 2004 933 Cedar Road
Chesterfield, MO — 1,857  48,366  2,023  1,917  50,329  13,645  2013 2001 1880 Clarkson Road
Chesterton, IN — 2,980  37,614  1,246  2,980  38,860  2,603  2020 2019 700 Dickinson Rd
Chico, CA — 1,780  13,201  1,553  1,780  14,754  557 2021 1984 2801 Cohasset
Chorleywood, UK — 5,636  43,191  7,738  6,194  50,371  16,297  2013 2007 High View, Rickmansworth Road
Chula Vista, CA — 2,072  22,163  1,650  2,186  23,699  6,973  2013 2003 3302 Bonita Road
Chula Vista, CA — 4,217  29,986  1,880  4,217  31,866  1,350  2021 2018 1290 Santa Rosa Dr
Church Crookham, UK — 2,591  14,215  2,307  2,855  16,258  4,334  2014 2014 2 Bourley Road
Cincinnati, OH — 1,750  11,366  — 1,750  11,366  1,091  2019 2019 732 Clough Pike Road
Cincinnati, OH — 1,606  2,958  1,036  1,606  3,994  579 2021 1998 4650 East Galbraith Road
Cincinnati, OH — 3,345  46,717  6,150  3,345  52,867  953 2021 1986 8135 Beechmont Ave
Citrus Heights, CA — 2,300  31,876  3,193  2,300  35,069  11,820  2010 1997 7418 Stock Ranch Rd.
Clackamas, OR — 1,240  3,581  339 1,240  3,920  502 2021 1999 14370 SE Oregon Trail Dr
Claremont, CA — 2,430  9,928  2,230  2,553  12,035  4,104  2013 2001 2053 North Towne Avenue
Clay, NY — 1,371  11,471  — 1,371  11,471  1,724  2019 2014 8547 Mor gan Road
Clearwater , FL — 1,727  4,542  361 1,727  4,903  230 2021 1985 1100 Ponce de Leon Blvd.
Cleburne, TX — 520 5,369  319 520 5,688  2,119 2006 2007 402 S Colonial Drive
Cohasset, MA — 2,485  26,147  2,421  2,500  28,553  8,639  2013 1998 125 King Street (Rt 3A)
Colleyville, TX — 1,050  17,082  84 1,050  17,166  2,313  2016 2013 8100 Precinct Line Road
Colorado Springs, CO — 800 14,756  2,269  1,034  16,791  5,352  2013 2001 2105 University Park Boulevard
Colorado Springs, CO — 1,142  14,147  1,363  1,142  15,510  521 2021 1985 5820 Flintridge Drive
Colts Neck, NJ — 780 14,733  3,594  1,463  17,644  5,481  2010 2002 3 Meridian Circle
Columbus, IN — 610 3,190  209 610 3,399  1,048  2010 1998 2564 Foxpointe Dr .
Columbus, IN — 1,593  10,953  1,233  1,593  12,186  453 2021 2000 3660 Central Avenue
Columbus, GA — (3) 36 — (3) 36 2 2021 1998 6850 River Road
Conroe, TX — 980 7,771  408 980 8,179  2,670  2009 2010 903 Longmire Road
Coos Bay , OR — 864 7,971  719 864 8,690  1,073  2020 1996 192 Norman Ave.
Coos Bay , OR — 1,792  9,852  1,004  1,792  10,856  1,346  2020 2006 1855 Ocean Blvd SE
Coquitlam, BC 8,163  3,047  24,567  3,447  3,337  27,724  9,074  2013 1990 1142 Duf ferin Street
Crystal Lake, IL — 875 12,461  2,284  971 14,649  4,855  2013 2001 751 E Terra Cotta Avenue
Crystal Lake, IL — 7,678  31,875  7,996  7,678  39,871  314 2021 1988 965 N. Brighton Circle W
Dallas, TX — 6,330  114,794  3,420  6,330  118,214  23,567  2015 2013 3535 N Hall Street
Dana Point, CA — 5,508  51,522  2,844  5,508  54,366  268 2021 1994 2541 1 Sea Bluf fs Drive
Danville, IN — 2,236  28,738  19 2,236  28,757  73 2021 2021 200 S Arbor Ln
Dardenne Prairie, MO — 1,309  11,271  236 1,309  11,507  292 2021 2010 1030 Barathaven Blvd.
Decatur , GA — 1,098  13,067  2,235  1,098  15,302  548 2021 1987 341 Winn Way
Decatur , GA — — — 31,583  1,946  29,637  9,096  2013 1998 920 Clairemont Avenue
Denver , CO — 1,450  19,389  5,386  1,450  24,775  6,526  2012 1997 4901 South Monaco Street
Denver , CO — 2,910  35,838  8,036  2,910  43,874  12,921  2012 2007 8101 E Mississippi Avenue
Denver , CO — 1,533  9,221  108,783  5,402  114,135  15,517  2019 2014 1500 Little Raven St
Denver , CO — 1,989  21,556  1,039  1,989  22,595  1,782  2020 2017 2979 Uinta Street
Des Moines, IA — 1,196  8,847  782 1,196  9,629  329 2021 1990 4610 Douglas Avenue
Dix Hills, NY — 3,808  39,014  2,592  4,092  41,322  12,177  2013 2003 337 Deer Park Road(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:           
Dollard-Des-Ormeaux, QC — 1,957  14,431  2,186  2,181  16,393  6,357  2013 2008 4377 St. Jean Blvd
Dresher , PA 8,380  1,900  10,664  1,575  1,914  12,225  4,779  2013 2006 1650 Susquehanna Road
Dublin, OH — 1,169  25,345  173 1,169  25,518  4,560  2016 2015 4175 Stoneridge Lane
Durham, NC — 3,212  22,108  1,242  3,212  23,350  638 2021 1998 205 Emerald Pond Lane
East Amherst, NY — 1,638  11,677  — 1,638  11,677  1,871  2019 2015 8040 Roll Road
East Lansing, MI — 3,919  17,509  1,864  3,919  19,373  712 2021 2000 5968 Pakr Lake Road
East Meadow , NY — 69 45,991  2,184  127 48,117 13,856  2013 2002 1555 Glen Curtiss Boulevard
East Setauket, NY — 4,920  37,354  2,274  4,986  39,562  11,527  2013 2002 1 Sunrise Drive
Eastbourne, UK — 4,145  33,744  4,369  4,549  37,709  11,167  2013 2008 6 Upper Kings Drive
Edgbaston, UK — 2,720  13,969  1,959  2,977  15,671  2,248  2014 2015 Speedwell Road
Edgewater , NJ — 4,561  25,047  2,452  4,564  27,496  8,235  2013 2000 351 River Road
Edison, NJ — 1,892  32,314  4,007  1,993  36,220  12,648  2013 1996 1801 Oak Tree Road
Edmonds, WA — 1,650  24,449  10,016  1,650  34,465  7,191  2015 1976 21500 72nd Avenue West
Edmonds, WA — 2,891  26,413  1,775  2,891  28,188  2,254  2020 2000 180 2nd Ave S
Edmonton, AB 7,373  1,589  29,819  4,145  1,778  33,775  10,131  2013 1999 103 Rabbit Hill Court NW
Edmonton, AB 9,717  2,063  37,293  5,066  2,253  42,169  14,233  2013 1968 10015 103rd Avenue NW
Effingham, IL — 606 3,437  262 606 3,699  327 2021 1997 1101 North Maple Street
Effingham, IL — 105 336 124 105 460 77 2021 1996 505 West Temple Avenue
El Dorado Hills, CA — — — 57,020  5,190  51,830  3,348  2017 2019 2020 Town Center West Way
Encino, CA — 5,040  46,255  6,801  5,040  53,056  15,509  2012 2003 15451 Ventura Boulevard
Englishtown, NJ — 690 12,520  2,488  860 14,838  4,933  2010 1997 49 Lasatta Ave
Epsom, UK — 20,159  34,803  6,407  22,059  39,310  5,692  2016 2014 450-458 Reigate Road
Erie, P A — 1,460  9,162  — 1,460  9,162  1,596  2019 2013 4400 East Lake Road
Esher , UK — 5,783  48,361  9,596  6,350  57,390  16,445  2013 2006 42 Copsem Lane
Evans, GA — 3,211 17,217  3,286  3,211 20,503  783 2021 1999 100 Washington Commons Dr
Evansville, IN — 1,038  10,570  1,413  1,038  11,983  475 2021 1991 5050 Lincoln Avenue
Everett, WA — 638 8,708  697 638 9,405  1,025  2020 1998 524 75th St SE
Everett, WA — 1,912  14,773  1,874  1,912  16,647  549 2021 1989 3915 Colby Avenue N
Fairfield, NJ — 3,120  43,868  2,514  3,255  46,247  13,407  2013 1998 47 Greenbrook Road
Fairfield, IL — 561 3,773  222 561 3,995  319 2021 1997 315 Market Street
Fairfield, CA — 1,460  14,040  7,062  1,460  21,102  8,669  2002 1998 3350 Cherry Hills St.
Fairfield, OH — 1,416  12,933  — 1,416  12,933  1,393  2019 2018 520 Patterson Boulevard
Fareham, UK — 3,408  17,970  2,634  3,755  20,257  4,952  2014 2012 Redlands Lane
Florence, AL — 353 13,049  1,628  385 14,645  4,839  2010 1999 3275 County Road 47
Flossmoor , IL — 1,292  9,496  3,054  1,362  12,480  4,425  2013 2000 19715 Governors Highway
Folsom, CA — 1,490  32,754  185 1,490  32,939  7,011 2015 2014 1574 Creekside Drive
Folsom, CA — 2,306  10,159  789 2,306  10,948  580 2021 2010 1801 E. Natoma St.
Fort Smith, AR — — 74 — — 74 2 2021 1997 8420 Phoenix Ave
Fort Wayne, IN — 3,637  42,242  729 3,637  42,971  2,188  2020 2018 3715 Union Chapel Rd
Fort Worth, TX — 4,179  40,328  17,804  7,131  55,180  6,998  2019 2017 3401 Amador Drive
Fort Worth, TX — 2,538  18,909  — 2,538  18,909  1,157  2020 2020 3401 Amador Drive
Fort Worth, TX — 2,080  27,888  6,373  2,080  34,261  11,106  2012 2001 2151 Green Oaks Road
Fort Worth, TX — 1,740  19,799  857 1,740  20,656  3,605  2016 2014 7001 Bryant Irvin Road
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:           
Franklin, TN — 5,733  13,653  1,784  5,733  15,437  553 2021 1999 314 Cool Springs Blvd.
Fremont, CA — 3,400  25,300  6,354  3,456  31,598  12,971  2005 1987 2860 Country Dr .
Fresno, CA 22,982  896 10,591  25,532  2,459  34,560  3,827  2019 2014 5605 North Gates Avenue
Fresno, CA — — 25 — — 25 1 2021 1988 6035 N Marks Avenue
Frome, UK — 2,720  14,813  2,415  2,977  16,971  3,828  2014 2012 Welshmill Lane
Fullerton, CA — 1,964  19,989  1,696  1,998  21,651  6,517  2013 2008 2226 North Euclid Street
Fullerton, CA — 1,801  5,878  317 1,801  6,195  349 2021 1987 1510 East Commonwealth Avenue
Gahanna, OH — 772 11,214  2,117 847 13,256  4,166  2013 1998 775 East Johnstown Road
Gahanna, OH — — 26 — — 26 2 2021 2005 1201 Riva Ridge Ct.
Gainesville, GA — 1,908  25,082  1,954  1,908  27,036  797 2021 2000 940 South Enota Drive
Garden Grove, CA — 2,107  3,990  559 2,107  4,549  409 2021 1999 11848 Valley View Street
Gardnerville, NV — 1,143  10,831  3,137  1,164  13,947  9,630  1998 1999 1565-A  Virginia Ranch Rd.
Gig Harbor , WA — 1,560  15,947  3,537  1,583  19,461  5,978  2010 1994 3213 45th St. Court NW
Gilbert, AZ 14,200  2,160  28,246  2,405  2,206  30,605  10,990  2013 2008 580 S. Gilbert Road
Glen Cove, NY — 4,594  35,236  2,634  4,688  37,776  12,588  2013 1998 39 Forest Avenue
Glendale, AZ — 3,114 24,668  — 3,114 24,668  424 2021 2018 8847 W. Glendale Ave
Glenview , IL — 2,090  69,288  5,809  2,090  75,097  22,200  2012 2001 2200 Golf Road
Golden Valley , MN 3,600  1,520  33,513  1,771  1,634  35,170  9,968  2013 2005 4950 Olson Memorial Highway
Granbury , TX — 2,040  30,670  784 2,040  31,454  8,936  2011 2009 100 Watermark Boulevard
Grand Forks, ND — 1,050  12,463  684 1,050  13,147  476 2021 2014 3783 S 16th St #1 12
Grand Prairie, TX — 1,880  23,827  — 1,880  23,827  371 2021 2021 3013 Doryn Drive
Grand Rapids, MI — 2,179  14,693  1,052  2,179  15,745  486 2021 2003 3121 Lake Michigan Dr NW
Grants Pass, OR — 561 8,603  271 561 8,874  243 2021 1985 1001 NE A Street
Greenville, SC — 893 21,242  1,553  893 22,795  659 2021 1989 1180 Haywood Road
Greenville, SC — — 41 — — 41 1 2021 1997 11 East August Place
Gresham, OR — 1,966  6,255  311 1,966  6,566  178 2021 1985 2895 SE Powell Valley Rd.
Grimsby , ON — 636 5,617  997 693 6,557  1,630  2015 1991 84 Main Street East
Grosse Pointe Woods, MI — 950 13,662  1,010  950 14,672  4,137  2013 2006 1850 Vernier Road
Grosse Pointe Woods, MI — 1,430  31,777  1,391  1,435  33,163  9,273  2013 2005 21260 Mack Avenue
Grove City , OH — 3,575  85,764  1,889  3,509  87,719  8,921  2018 2017 3717 Orders Road
Grove City , OH — 1,099  4,781  465 1,099  5,246  431 2021 1990 2320 Sonora Drive
Guildford, UK — 5,361  56,494  6,478  5,870  62,463  17,299  2013 2006 Astolat Way, Peasmarsh
Gurnee, IL — 890 27,931  2,750  945 30,626  8,578  2013 2002 500 North Hunt Club Road
Haddonfield, NJ — 520 16,363  709 527 17,065  3,385  2011 2015 132 Warwick Road
Hambur g, NY — 971 10,909  — 971 10,909  1,687  2019 2009 4600 Southwestern Blvd
Hamilton, OH — 1,128  10,940  1,067  1,163  11,972  1,446  2019 2019 1740 Eden Park Drive
Hampshire, UK — 4,172  26,035  3,420  4,577  29,050  8,434  2013 2006 22-26 Church Road
Happy Valley , OR — 721 10,369  — 721 10,369  1,398  2019 1998 8915 S.E. Monterey
Harrisbur g, IL — 858 4,623  317 858 4,940  462 2021 2005 165 Ron Morse Drive
Haverford, P A — 1,880  33,993  2,934  1,907  36,900  10,476  2010 2000 731 Old Buck Lane
Helena, MT — 1,850  17,091  1,954  1,850  19,045  842 2021 1998 2801 Colonial Drive
Hemet, CA — 1,877  8,946  542 1,877  9,488  335 2021 1905 800 W Oakland Ave
Henderson, NV — 1,190  11,600  1,311 1,298  12,803  4,887  2013 2008 1555 West Horizon Ridge Parkway(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:           
Hermitage, P A — 1,084  14,196  1,253  1,084  15,449  497 2021 2001 260 S. Buhl Farm Dr .
Hickory , NC — 1,600  26,405  2,014  1,600  28,419  842 2021 2002 915 29th Avenue NE
High Point, NC — 1,355  19,751  1,984  1,355  21,735  736 2021 2002 1573 Skeet Club Rd.
High Wycombe, UK — 3,567  13,422  1,566  3,776  14,779  2,024  2015 2017 The Row Lane End
Highland Park, IL — 2,820  15,832  1,149  2,820  16,981  4,093  2011 2012 1651 Richfield Avenue
Highland Park, IL — 2,250  25,313  1,677  2,271  26,969  8,746  2013 2005 1601 Green Bay Road
Hindhead, UK — 17,852  48,645  7,655  19,535  54,617  7,751  2016 2012 Portsmouth Road
Hingham, MA — 1,440  32,292  506 1,444  32,794  7,071  2015 2012 1 Sgt. William B Terry Drive
Holbrook, NY — 3,957  35,337  2,843  4,219  37,918  10,892  2013 2001 320 Patchogue Holbrook Road
Honolulu, HI — 22,918  49,662  6,384  22,918  56,046  1,602  2021 1998 428 Kawaihae St
Hoover , AL — 2,165  16,059  1,984  2,165  18,043  605 2021 2004 3517 Lorna Road
Horley , UK — 2,332  12,144  2,243  2,560  14,159  3,820  2014 2014 Court Lodge Road
Houston, TX — 3,830  55,674  10,039  3,830  65,713  20,771  2012 1998 2929 West Holcombe Boulevard
Houston, TX — 1,040  31,965  6,984  1,040  38,949  10,763  2012 1999 505 Bering Drive
Houston, TX — 1,750  15,603  1,707  1,750  17,310  2,851  2016 2014 10120 Louetta Road
Houston, TX — 960 15,550  — 960 15,550  9,286  2011 1995 10225 Cypresswood Dr
Howell, NJ — 1,066  21,577  1,685  1,154  23,174  6,879  2010 2007 100 Meridian Place
Huntington Beach, CA — 3,808  31,172  3,194  3,931  34,243  11,450  2013 2004 7401 Yorktown Avenue
Independence, MO — 1,562  14,452  — 1,562  14,452  1,558  2019 2019 19301 East Eastland Ctr Ct
Independence, MO — 3,230  20,425  4,157  3,230  24,582  184 2021 1990 2100 Swope Drive
Iowa City , IA — 891 5,680  331 891 6,011 197 2021 1991 2423 Walden Road
Jackson, TN — 1,370  11,317  1,173  1,370  12,490  401 2021 1996 25 Max Lane Drive
Jacksonville, FL — 1,205  11,991  22,939  6,550  29,585  2,704  2019 2019 10520 Validus Drive
Johns Creek, GA — 1,580  23,285  1,624  1,588  24,901  7,211 2013 2009 11405 Medlock Bridge Road
Johnson City , NY — 1,440  11,675  1,124  1,421  12,818  1,959  2019 2013 1035 Anna Maria Drive
Kalamazoo, MI — 7,531  37,252  8,794  7,531  46,046  412 2021 1989 1700 Bronson Way
Kanata, ON — 1,689  28,670  2,574  1,775  31,158  9,271  2012 2005 70 Stonehaven Drive
Kelowna, BC 4,654  2,688  13,647  2,781  2,939  16,177  5,285  2013 1999 863 Leon Avenue
Kennebunk, ME — 2,700  30,204  6,063  3,394  35,573  15,813  2013 2006 One Huntington Common Drive
Kenner , LA — 1,100  10,036  3,889  1,100  13,925  10,932  1998 2000 1600 Joe Yenni Blvd
Kenner , LA — 809 11,820  524 809 12,344  298 2021 1905 1101 Sunset Boulevard
Kennett Square, P A — 1,050  22,946  981 1,104  23,873  6,811 2010 2008 301 Victoria Gardens Dr .
Kingston, ON 11,587  1,030  11,416  2,424  1,445  13,425  2,877  2015 1983 181 Ontario Street
Kingston upon Thames, UK — 33,063  46,696  8,683  36,180  52,262  7,315  2016 2014 Coombe Lane West
Kingwood, TX — 480 9,777  1,086  480 10,863  3,485  2011 1999 22955 Eastex Freeway
Kingwood, TX — 1,683  24,207  2,500  1,683  26,707  5,262  2017 2012 24025 Kingwood Place
Kirkland, WA — 1,880  4,315  2,404  1,880  6,719  2,656  2003 1996 6505 Lakeview Dr .
Kitchener , ON 9,360  1,341  13,939  5,281  1,495  19,066  4,706  2016 2003 1250 Weber Street E
Klamath Falls, OR — 1,335  10,174  1,500  1,335  11,674  1,530  2020 2000 615 Washburn Way
La Palma, CA — 2,950  16,591  1,422  2,996  17,967  5,494  2013 2003 5321 La Palma Avenue
Lackawanna, NY — 1,029  5,815  — 1,029  5,815  1,033  2019 2002 133 Orchard Place
Lafayette Hill, P A — 1,750  11,848  2,542  1,867  14,273  5,548  2013 1998 429 Ridge Pike
Laguna Hills, CA — 12,820  75,926  20,060  12,820  95,986  24,934  2016 1988 24903 Moulton Parkway
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:           
Laguna Woods, CA — 11,280  76,485  13,614  11,280  90,099  21,498  2016 1987 24441 Calle Sonora
Laguna Woods, CA — 9,150  57,842  12,772  9,150  70,614  17,105  2016 1986 24962 Calle Aragon
Lake Havasu City , AZ — 364 1,599  225 364 1,824  355 2020 2009 320 Lake Havasu Ave. N,
Lake Zurich, IL — 1,470  9,830  3,045  1,470  12,875  5,205  2011 2007 550 America Court
Lakeland, FL — 2,416  18,028  1,763  2,416  19,791  667 2021 1999 1325 Grasslands Boulevard
Lancaster , CA — 700 15,295  2,532  712 17,815  6,340  2010 1999 43051 15th St. West
Lancaster , OH — 289 1,975  102 289 2,077  140 2021 1996 800 Becks Knob Road
Lancaster , OH — 1,029  7,069  630 1,029  7,699  507 2021 1981 2750 West Fair Avenue
Lancaster , NY — 1,262  12,181  — 1,262  12,181  1,999  2019 2011 18 Pavement Road
Las Vegas, NV — 5,908  36,955  4,213  5,908  41,168  5,193  2020 1999 1600 S Valley View Road
Las Vegas, NV — 1,274  13,748  540 1,274  14,288  1,357  2020 2001 3300 Winterhaven Street
Las Vegas, NV — 2,412  22,045  1,424  2,412  23,469  2,750  2020 1997 3210 S Sandhill Road
Laval, QC 21,048  2,105  32,161  6,585  2,246  38,605  6,850  2018 2005 269, boulevard Ste. Rose
Laval, QC 3,943  2,383  5,968  1,932  2,544  7,739  1,306  2018 1989 263, boulevard Ste. Rose
Lawrenceville, GA — 1,500  29,003  1,031  1,529  30,005  8,828  2013 2008 1375 Webb Gin House Road
Lawrenceville, GA — 3,513  23,081  1,092  3,513  24,173  596 2021 2007 2899 Five Forks Trickum Road
Leatherhead, UK — 4,682  17,835  2,292  4,956  19,853  2,579  2015 2017 Rectory Lane
Leawood, KS — 2,490  32,493  7,318  5,610  36,691  11,196  2012 1999 4400 West 115th Street
Lenexa, KS 9,700  826 26,251  1,652  927 27,802  8,758  2013 2006 15055 West 87th Street Parkway
Lexington, SC — 1,843  14,519  782 1,843  15,301  428 2021 2001 203 Old Chapin Rd.
Lincoln, NE — 390 13,807  393 390 14,200  4,263  2010 2000 7208 Van Dorn St.
Lincoln, NE — 884 9,915  722 884 10,637  329 2021 1990 1111 S 70th
Lincroft, NJ — 9 19,958  1,976  148 21,795  6,656  2013 2002 734 Newman Springs Road
Linwood, NJ — 800 21,984  2,382  870 24,296  7,152  2010 1997 432 Central Ave
Litchfield, CT — 1,240  17,908  12,051  1,308  29,891  7,354  2010 1998 19 Constitution Way
Little Neck, NY — 3,350  38,461  3,921  3,358  42,374  12,068  2010 2000 5515 Little Neck Pkwy .
Livingston, NJ — 8,000  44,424  1,776  8,040  46,160  6,676  2015 2017 369 E Mt Pleasant Avenue
Lombard, IL 17,010  2,130  59,943  2,055  2,218  61,910  17,480  2013 2009 2210 Fountain Square Dr
London, UK — 3,121  10,027  2,367  3,430  12,085  2,940  2014 2012 71 Hatch Lane
London, UK — 7,691  16,797  2,106  8,141  18,453  2,850  2015 2016 6 Victoria Drive
London, UK — — — 77,131  24,542  52,589  2,600  2017 2020 39-41 East Hill, Wandsworth
London, ON 10,558  1,969  16,985  3,292  2,137  20,109  4,742  2015 1953 1486 Richmond Street North
London, ON — 1,445  13,631  2,391  1,694  15,773  3,529  2015 1950 81 Grand Avenue
Longmont, CO — 1,756  10,572  1,253  1,756  11,825  465 2021 1986 2210 Main Street
Longueuil, QC 8,405  3,992  23,71 1 5,233  4,403  28,533  7,153  2015 1989 70 Rue Levis
Longview , TX — 610 5,520  446 610 5,966  2,187  2006 2007 311 E Hawkins Pkwy
Lorain, OH — 1,397  13,005  — 1,397  13,005  1,190  2019 2018 5401 North Pointe Pkwy
Los Angeles, CA 55,314  — 114,438  9,535  — 123,973  38,324  2011 2009 10475 Wilshire Boulevard
Los Angeles, CA — 3,540  19,007  4,337  3,540  23,344  7,657  2012 2001 2051 N. Highland Avenue
Los Angeles, CA — — 28,050  6,125  71 34,104  6,837  2016 2006 4061 Grand View Boulevard
Louisville, KY — 1,588  8,552  702 1,588  9,254  271 2021 2000 620 Valley Coillege Drive
Louisville, KY — 2,274  9,766  1,002  2,274  10,768  322 2021 1998 8021 Christian Court
Louisville, KY — 2,420  20,816  3,432  2,420  24,248  7,719  2012 1999 4600 Bowling Boulevard(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:           
Louisville, KY 13,650  1,600  20,326  1,331  1,600  21,657  6,796  2013 2010 6700 Overlook Drive
Louisville, CO — 2,266  13,002  21,470  1,939  34,799  4,254  2019 2008 1336 E Hecla Drive
Louisville, CO — 1,042  8,396  18,912  1,156  27,194  2,011 2019 2019 1800 Plaza Drive
Louisville, CO — 1,432  6,684  53,555  2,584  59,087  10,262  2019 1999 1855 Plaza Drive
Louisville, CO — 1,323  7,547  9,270  1,391  16,749  1,969  2019 1999 282 McCaslin Blvd
Louisville, CO — 1,630  12,001  36,522  2,332  47,821  5,970  2019 2004 1331 E Hecla Drive
Lynnfield, MA — 3,165  45,200  2,944  3,774  47,535  14,223  2013 2006 55 Salem Street
Madison, TN — 2,093  7,764  542 2,093  8,306  266 2021 1986 200 East Webster
Mahwah, NJ — 1,605  27,249  1,187  1,608  28,433  4,835  2012 2015 15 Edison Road
Malvern, P A — 1,651  17,194  2,975  1,804  20,016  7,370  2013 1998 324 Lancaster Avenue
Manassas, VA — 2,946  15,196  1,413  2,946  16,609  542 2021 1994 9852 Fairmont Avenue
Mansfield, TX — 660 5,251  362 660 5,613  2,105  2006 2007 2281 Country Club Dr
Manteca, CA — 1,300  12,125  5,149  1,312  17,262  7,092  2005 1986 430 N. Union Rd.
Maple Ridge, BC 9,431  2,875  11,922  3,241  3,325  14,713  2,479  2015 2009 12241 224th Street
Marieville, QC 5,805  1,278  12,113 1,470  1,412  13,449  3,022  2015 2002 425 rue Claude de Ramezay
Markham, ON 48,212  3,727  48,939  5,741  4,003  54,404  18,826  2013 1981 7700 Bayview Avenue
Marlboro, NJ — 2,222  14,888  1,778  2,268  16,620  5,362  2013 2002 3A South Main Street
Marlow , UK — 9,068  39,720  3,511 9,599  42,700  6,664  2013 2014 210 Little Marlow Road
Marysville, WA — 620 4,780  2,873  620 7,653  3,085  2003 1998 9802 48th Dr . N.E.
Marysville, OH — 408 764 94 408 858 136 2021 1990 715 South Walnut Street
Mattoon, IL — 791 1,702  203 791 1,905  246 2021 1999 2008 South 9th Street
Mattoon, IL — 505 2,054  204 505 2,258  237 2021 2001 1920 Brookstone Lane
McKinney , TX — 1,570  7,389  281 1,570  7,670  2,546  2009 2010 2701 Alma Rd.
Medicine Hat, AB 9,834  1,432  14,141  1,228  1,559  15,242  4,367  2015 1999 223 Park Meadows Drive SE
Medina, OH — 1,309  10,540  2,413  1,731  12,531  1,580  2019 2017 699 North Huntington St
Melbourne, FL — 7,070  48,257  45,093  7,070  93,350  31,049  2007 2009 7300 Watersong Lane
Melville, NY — 4,280  73,283  8,032  4,332  81,263  23,012  2010 2001 70 Pinelawn Rd
Memphis, TN — 1,800  17,744  3,383  1,800  21,127  7,718  2012 1999 6605 Quail Hollow Road
Memphis, TX — 2,794  3,093  881 2,794  3,974  419 2021 1981 1645 Massey Road
Memphis, TN — 1,578  9,368  565 1,578  9,933  436 2021 2018 8722 Winchester Rd
Menomonee Falls, WI — 1,020  6,984  2,579  1,020  9,563  3,217  2006 2007 W128 N6900 Northfield Drive
Merced, CA — 2,806  12,444  848 2,806  13,292  347 2021 1905 3460 R Street
Mesa, AZ — 950 9,087  4,647  950 13,734  6,613  1999 2000 7231 E. Broadway
Metairie, LA 14,200  725 27,708  1,873  759 29,547  7,955  2013 2009 3732 West Esplanade Ave. S
Mill Creek, WA — 10,150  60,274  4,529  10,179  64,774  23,660  2010 1998 14905 Bothell-Everett Hwy
Millbrook, NY — 12,708  7,671  4,777  12,708  12,448  251 2021 1985 79 Flint Road
Milton, ON 18,806  4,542  25,321  7,974  4,957  32,880  5,599  2015 2012 611 Farmstead Drive
Milwaukie, OR — 2,391  17,777  2,485  2,391  20,262  654 2021 1996 4017 SE Vineyard Road
Minnetonka, MN — 920 29,344  1,533  964 30,833  8,530  2013 2006 18605 Old Excelsior Blvd.
Mission Viejo, CA 12,977  6,600  52,118 8,717  6,600  60,835  12,471  2016 1998 27783 Center Drive
Mississauga, ON 7,971  1,602  17,996  2,278  1,739  20,137  5,918  2013 1984 1130 Bough Beeches Boulevard
Mississauga, ON 25,740  3,649  35,137  5,020  3,997  39,809  11,575  2015 1988 1490 Rathburn Road East
Mississauga, ON 5,814  2,548  15,158  4,452  2,762  19,396  4,893  2015 1989 85 King Street East
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:           
Missoula, MT — 550 7,490  1,267  553 8,754  3,529  2005 1998 3620 American Way
Mobberley , UK — 5,146  26,665  4,043  5,660  30,194  10,516  2013 2007 Barclay Park, Hall Lane
Mobile, AL — 737 9,072  1,133  737 10,205  400 2021 1995 650 University Boulevard South
Modesto, CA — — 293 — — 293 8 2021 1987 3420 Shawnee Drive
Molalla, OR — 1,210  3,903  436 1,210  4,339  674 2020 1998 835 E Main St
Monterey , CA — 6,440  29,101  3,319  6,443  32,417  9,580  2013 2009 1110 Cass St.
Montgomery , AL — 524 9,760  1,163  524 10,923  422 2021 1991 5801 EastdaleDrive
Montgomery , MD — 6,482  83,642  14,743  6,709  98,158  19,891  2018 1992 3701 International Dr
Montgomery Village, MD — 3,530  18,246  7,432  4,291  24,917  12,188  2013 1993 19310 Club House Road
Montreal-Nord, QC 10,733  4,407  23,719  10,585  4,704  34,007  6,448  2018 1988 6700, boulevard Gouin Est
Moorestown, NJ — 2,060  51,628  7,644  2,095  59,237  15,647  2010 2000 1205 N. Church St
Moose Jaw , SK 1,556  582 12,973  2,229  630 15,154  4,257  2013 2001 425 4th Avenue NW
Morton Grove, IL — 1,900  15,724  — 1,900  15,724  5,374  2010 2011 5520 N. Lincoln Ave.
Murphy , TX — 1,950  19,182  818 1,950  20,000  3,490  2015 2012 304 West FM 544
Myrtle Beach, SC — — 69 — — 69 3 2021 2005 3736 Robert M. Grissom Pkwy
Nacogdoches, TX — 390 5,754  291 390 6,045  2,279  2006 2007 5902 North St
Naperville, IL — 1,550  12,237  2,388  1,550  14,625  4,625  2012 2013 1936 Brookdale Road
Naperville, IL — 1,540  28,204  1,975  1,593  30,126  9,007  2013 2002 535 West Ogden Avenue
Nashville, TN — 3,900  35,788  4,850  3,900  40,638  14,081  2012 1999 4206 Stammer Place
New Braunfels, TX — 1,200  19,800  10,508  2,729  28,779  7,250  2011 2009 2294 East Common Street
New Palestine, IN — 2,259  20,626  1,384  2,259  22,010  124 2021 2017 4400 Terrace Drive
Newber g, OR — 2,806  14,781  479 2,806  15,260  404 2021 1905 3801 Hayes St.
Newbury , UK — 2,850  12,796  1,963  3,119 14,490  2,135  2015 2016 370 London Road
Newmarket, UK — 4,071  11,902  2,966  4,476  14,463  3,871  2014 2011 Jeddah Way
Newtown Square, P A — 1,930  14,420  1,933  1,962  16,321  5,984  2013 2004 333 S. Newtown Street Rd.
North Tonawanda, NY — 1,249  7,360  600 1,249  7,960  1,286  2019 2005 705 Sandra Lane
North Tustin, CA — 2,880  18,059  1,195  3,044  19,090  5,188  2013 2000 12291 Newport Avenue
North Wales, P A — 1,968  17,439  917 1,968  18,356  1,004  2021 2013 1419 Horsham Rd
Oak Harbor , WA — 739 7,698  448 739 8,146  1,242  2019 1998 171 SW  6th Ave
Oak Park, IL — 1,250  40,383  3,812  1,250  44,195  13,444  2012 2004 1035 Madison Street
Oakdale, P A — 1,917  11,954  880 1,917  12,834  2,017  2019 2017 7420 Steubenville Pike
Oakland, CA — 3,877  47,508  3,897  4,117 51,165  15,459  2013 1999 11889 Skyline Boulevard
Oakton, VA — 2,250  37,576  3,951  2,393  41,384  11,982  2013 1997 2863 Hunter Mill Road
Oakville, ON 5,339  1,252  7,382  1,239  1,412  8,461  2,640  2013 1982 289 and 299 Randall Street
Oakville, ON 8,365  2,134  29,963  4,805  2,320  34,582  10,270  2013 1994 25 Lakeshore Road West
Oakville, ON 4,388  1,271  13,754  2,433  1,388  16,070  4,306  2013 1988 345 Church Street
Odessa, TX — 346 3,406  100 346 3,506  126 2021 1954 311 W 4th St
Ogden, UT — 360 6,700  1,376  360 8,076  3,392  2004 1998 1340 N. Washington Blv .
Oklahoma City , OK — 5,962  22,91 1 6,708  5,962  29,619  379 2021 1984 1404 North West 122nd Street
Okotoks, AB 19,097  714 20,943  2,522  791 23,388  5,575  2015 2010 51 Riverside Gate
Olney , IL — 897 4,543  262 897 4,805  400 2021 1999 1110 North East Street
Olney , IL — 534 2,053  181 534 2,234  266 2021 1998 1301 North East Street
Omaha, NE — 370 10,230  139 379 10,360  3,198  2010 1998 11909 Miracle Hills Dr .(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:           
Omaha, NE — 380 8,769  236 384 9,001  2,902  2010 1999 5728 South 108th St.
Orange, CA 35,157  8,021  64,689  3,238  8,021  67,927  6,994  2019 2018 630 The City Drive South
Orem, UT — 1,395  7,983  792 1,395  8,775  326 2021 1987 325 W Center
Ormond Beach, FL — 3,428  15,702  1,239  3,428  16,941  354 2021 1984 101 Clyde Morris Blvd
Ottawa, ON 13,109  1,341  15,425  4,399  1,484  19,681  3,562  2015 2001 110 Berrigan Drive
Ottawa, ON 17,163  3,454  23,309  4,423  3,799  27,387  10,015  2015 1966 2370 Carling Avenue
Ottawa, ON 19,571  4,256  39,141  3,518  4,552  42,363  8,147  2015 2005 751 Peter Morand Crescent
Ottawa, ON 6,812  2,327  7,817  — 2,327  7,817  4,123  2015 1989 1 Eaton Street
Ottawa, ON 12,969  2,963  26,424  4,585  3,257  30,715  5,891  2015 2008 691 Valin Street
Ottawa, ON 9,789  1,561  18,170  3,959  1,766  21,924  4,142  2015 2006 22 Barnstone Drive
Ottawa, ON 12,754  3,403  31,090  5,033  3,723  35,803  6,510  2015 2009 990 Hunt Club Road
Ottawa, ON 16,129  3,411 28,335  7,446  3,760  35,432  7,849  2015 2009 2 Valley Stream Drive
Ottawa, ON 8,637  2,809  27,299  4,570  3,024  31,654  10,593  2013 1998 43 Aylmer Avenue
Ottawa, ON 4,248  1,156  9,758  1,383  1,281  11,016  3,220  2013 1998 1351 Hunt Club Road
Ottawa, ON 5,534  746 7,800  1,629  847 9,328  2,645  2013 1999 140 Darlington Private
Ottawa, ON 8,413  1,176  12,764  1,827  1,313  14,454  2,827  2015 1987 10 Vaughan Street
Outremont, QC 16,862  6,746  45,981  13,725  7,200  59,252  12,055  2018 1976 1000, avenue Rockland
Overland Park, KS — 1,540  16,269  2,834  1,670  18,973  5,275  2012 1998 9201 Foster
Oviedo, FL — 3,350  28,252  2,895  3,350  31,147  1,042  2021 2002 7015 Red Bug Lake Rd.
Painesville, OH 3,314  — — — — — — 2020 1900 1504 Jackson Street
Palestine, TX — 180 4,320  1,723  180 6,043  2,239  2006 2005 1625 W. Spring St.
Palm Desert, CA — 13,674  52,153  6,490  13,674  58,643  495 2021 1985 41-505 Carlotta Drive
Palo Alto, CA 25,050  — 39,639  3,719  24 43,334  12,722  2013 2007 2701 El Camino Real
Paramus, NJ — 2,840  35,728  2,061  2,986  37,643  10,951  2013 1998 567 Paramus Road
Paris, IL — 688 5,948  255 688 6,203  386 2021 2001 146 Brookstone Lane
Paris, TX — 490 5,452  360 490 5,812  5,468  2005 2006 750 N Collegiate Dr
Parma, OH — 1,533  9,221  701 1,533  9,922  1,575  2019 2016 11500 Huf fman Road
Paso Robles, CA — 1,770  8,630  4,096  1,770  12,726  5,206  2002 1998 1919 Creston Rd.
Peabody , MA 5,634  2,250  16,071  1,408  2,380  17,349  4,386  2013 1994 73 Mar gin Street
Pella, IA — 870 6,716  417 938 7,065  1,695  2012 2002 2602 Fifield Road
Pembroke, ON — 1,931  9,427  1,445  2,029  10,774  3,274  2012 1999 1111 Pembroke Street West
Pennington, NJ — 1,380  27,620  2,061  1,507  29,554  8,087  2011 2000 143 West Franklin Avenue
Peoria, AZ — 766 21,796  1,572  766 23,368  4,013  2018 2014 13391 N 94th Drive
Peoria, AZ — 2,006  10,959  1,132  2,006  12,091  452 2021 1997 13619 N 94th Drive
Pinole, CA — — 62 — — 62 1 2021 1989 2621 Appian Way
Pittsbur gh, P A — 1,580  18,017  11,193  1,610  29,180  6,638  2013 2009 900 Lincoln Club Dr .
Placentia, CA — 8,480  17,076  6,245  8,519  23,282  6,365  2016 1987 1180 N Bradford Avenue
Plainview , NY — 3,066  19,901  1,595  3,182  21,380  5,988  2013 2001 1231 Old Country Road
Plano, TX 28,960  3,120  59,950  4,846  3,231  64,685  21,960  2013 2006 4800 West Parker Road
Plano, TX — 1,750  15,390  1,649  1,750  17,039  2,942  2016 2014 3690 Mapleshade Lane
Plattsmouth, NE — 250 5,650  91 250 5,741  1,860  2010 1999 1913 E. Highway 34
Playa Vista, CA — 1,580  40,531  3,871  1,708  44,274  12,709  2013 2006 5555 Playa Vista Drive
Pleasanton, CA — — — 52,086  3,676  48,410  4,093  2016 2017 5700 Pleasant Hill Road
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:           
Port Perry , ON 11,261  3,685  26,788  4,753  4,008  31,218  5,743  2015 2009 15987 Simcoe Street
Port St. Lucie, FL — 8,700  47,230  21,390  8,700  68,620  22,796  2008 2010 10685 SW  Stony Creek Way
Portage, MI 41,415  2,880  59,764  2,569  2,880  62,333  7,718  2019 2017 3951 W. Milham Ave.
Porterville, CA — 1,739  14,248  942 1,739  15,190  543 2021 1999 2500 W Henderson Avenue
Potomac, MD — 6,500  53,379  — 6,500  53,379  1,174  2018 2021 10800 Potomac Tennis Lane
Princeton, NJ — 1,730  30,888  2,424  1,814  33,228  9,526  2011 2001 155 Raymond Road
Purley , UK — 7,365  35,161  5,554  8,121  39,959  12,742  2012 2005 21 Russell Hill Road
Puyallup, WA — 1,150  20,776  4,277  1,156  25,047  7,826  2010 1985 123 Fourth Ave. NW
Quebec City , QC 7,084  2,420  21,977  4,902  2,583  26,716  4,468  2018 2000 795, rue Alain
Quebec City , QC 11,614  3,300  28,325  6,797  3,522  34,900  5,771  2018 1987 650 and 700, avenue Murray
Queensbury , NY — 1,260  21,744  1,842  1,273  23,573  4,658  2015 1999 27 Woodvale Road
Quincy , IL — 2,328  15,242  1,012  2,328  16,254  479 2021 2005 823 S 36th St.
Rancho Cucamonga, CA — 1,480  10,055  2,413  2,084  11,864  4,330  2013 2001 9519 Baseline Road
Rancho Palos Verdes, CA — 5,450  60,034  7,220  5,450  67,254  19,773  2012 2004 5701 Crestridge Road
Randolph, NJ 29,300  1,540  46,934  2,635  1,718  49,391  13,945  2013 2006 648 Route 10 West
Rantoul, IL — 579 4,310  266 579 4,576  331 2021 2002 300 Twin Lakes Drive
Red Deer , AB 11,913  1,247  19,283  3,188  1,366  22,352  4,861  2015 2004 3100 - 22 Street
Red Deer , AB 14,013  1,199  22,339  3,981  1,278  26,241  5,875  2015 2004 10 Inglewood Drive
Redding, CA 25,984  4,474  36,557  2,161  4,474  38,718  4,583  2019 2017 2150 Bechelli Lane
Redding, CA — 2,639  9,188  1,102  2,639  10,290  394 2021 1985 451 Hilltop Drive
Redlands, CA — 1,966  38,192  2,233  1,966  40,425  849 2021 1988 10 Terracina Blvd
Regina, SK 5,611 1,485  21,148  2,851  1,728  23,756  7,399  2013 1999 3651 Albert Street
Regina, SK 5,608  1,244  21,036  2,652  1,362  23,570  6,713  2013 2004 3105 Hillsdale Street
Regina, SK 14,657  1,539  24,053  5,468  1,697  29,363  5,893  2015 1992 1801 McIntyre Street
Rehoboth Beach, DE — 960 24,248  9,441  993 33,656  8,874  2010 1999 36101 Seaside Blvd
Reno, NV — 1,060  11,440  2,796  1,060  14,236  5,589  2004 1998 5165 Summit Ridge Court
Richmond, VA — 6,501  21,623  2,074  6,501  23,697  801 2021 2007 10300 Three Chopt Rd.
Ridgeland, MS — 520 7,675  2,496  520 10,171  4,139  2003 1997 410 Orchard Park
Riviere-du-Loup, QC 2,540  592 7,601  1,780  693 9,280  2,146  2015 1956 35 des Cedres
Riviere-du-Loup, QC 11,618  1,454  16,848  6,096  1,857  22,541  5,829  2015 1993 230-235 rue Des Chenes
Robinson, IL — 660 3,385  282 660 3,667  342 2021 1999 1101 North Monroe Street
Rockford, IL — 1,006  4,728  391 1,006  5,119 382 2021 2003 3495 McFarland Road
Rocky Hill, CT — 1,090  6,710  5,638  42 13,396  4,093  2003 1996 60 Cold Spring Rd.
Rogers, AR — — 39 — — 39 2 2021 2012 2501 N 22nd St.
Rohnert Park, CA — 6,500  18,700  5,057  6,546  23,71 1 9,769  2005 1986 4855 Snyder Lane
Romeoville, IL — 854 12,646  62,306  6,197  69,609  22,775  2006 2010 605 S Edward Dr .
Rosebur g, OR — 979 12,388  2,065  979 14,453  499 2021 1984 1800 Hughwood
Roseville, MN — 1,540  35,877  1,628  1,648  37,397  10,212  2013 2002 2555 Snelling Avenue, North
Roseville, CA — 16 23 — 16 23 2 2021 2003 1275 Pleasant Grove Blvd.
Roseville, CA — 3,300  41,652  7,069  3,300  48,721  10,866  2016 2000 5161 Foothills Boulevard
Roswell, GA — 1,107  9,627  3,764  1,114 13,384  9,130  1997 1999 655 Mansell Rd.
Roswell, GA — 2,080  6,486  3,773  2,380  9,959  2,921  2012 1997 75 Magnolia Street
Round Rock, TX — 2,358  14,856  621 2,358  15,477  528 2021 2007 310 Chisholm Trail(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)
Initial Cost to Company Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:
Rowlett, TX — 1,612  21,319  223 1,612  21,542  941 2020 2019 4205-4209 Dalrock Rd
Sabre Springs, CA — — — 46,970  3,726  43,244  3,455  2016 2017 12515 Springhurst Drive
Sacramento, CA — 940 14,781  2,273  952 17,042  5,562  2010 1978 6350 Riverside Blvd
Sacramento, CA — 1,300  23,394  2,395  1,369  25,720  7,335  2013 2004 345 Munroe Street
Saginaw , MI — 1,483  16,182  1,733  1,483  17,915  643 2021 1997 4141 McCarty Road
Saint-Lambert, QC 32,254  10,259  61,903  11,500  11,308  72,354  21,029  2015 1989 1705 Avenue Victoria
Salem, OR — 918 9,659  878 918 10,537  1,140  2020 1999 4452 Lancaster Dr NE
Salem, OR — 1,227  8,632  800 1,227  9,432  1,033  2020 1997 4050 12th Street Cutof f SE
Salem, OR — 2,876  18,100  1,724  2,876  19,824  690 2021 1980 707 Madrona Avenue SE
Salinas, CA — 5,110 41,424  11,316  5,150  52,700  12,470  2016 1990 1320 Padre Drive
Salisbury , UK — 2,720  15,269  2,228  2,977  17,240  3,676  2014 2013 Shapland Close
Salt Lake City , UT — 1,360  19,691  1,145  1,396  20,800  7,855  2011 1986 1430 E. 4500 S.
San Antonio, TX — 6,120  28,169  2,694  6,120  30,863  8,709  2010 2011 2702 Cembalo Blvd
San Antonio, TX — 5,045  58,048  3,286  5,045  61,334  9,718  2017 2015 11300 Wild Pine
San Antonio, TX — 11,686  69,930  3,634  11,686  73,564  10,157  2019 2016 6870 Heuermann Road
San Diego, CA — 5,810  63,078  7,420  5,810  70,498  22,850  2012 2001 13075 Evening Creek Drive S
San Diego, CA — 3,000  27,164  2,213  3,016  29,361  7,917  2013 2003 810 Turquoise Street
San Diego, CA 28,852  4,179  40,328  1,920  4,179  42,248  4,241  2019 2017 955 Grand Ave
San Francisco, CA — 5,920  91,639  13,980  5,920  105,619  23,392  2016 1998 1550 Sutter Street
San Francisco, CA — 11,800  77,214  10,905  11,800  88,119 19,413  2016 1923 1601 19th Avenue
San Gabriel, CA — 3,120  15,566  1,519  3,170  17,035  5,232  2013 2005 8332 Huntington Drive
San Jose, CA — 3,280  46,823  5,656  3,280  52,479  15,796  2012 2002 500 S Winchester Boulevard
San Jose, CA — 11,900  27,647  5,559  11,966  33,140  7,834  2016 2002 4855 San Felipe Road
San Rafael, CA — 1,620  27,392  4,284  1,620  31,676  6,424  2016 2001 111 Merrydale Road
San Ramon, CA — 8,700  72,223  10,336  8,779  82,480  18,062  2016 1992 9199 Fircrest Lane
Sandy Springs, GA — 2,214  8,360  1,595  2,220  9,949  3,969  2012 1997 5455 Glenridge Drive NE
Santa Ana, CA — 2,077  2,690  455 2,077  3,145  315 2021 1992 3730 South Greenville Street
Santa Monica, CA 15,820  5,250  28,340  1,412  5,266  29,736  8,523  2013 2004 1312 15th Street
Santa Rosa, CA — 2,250  26,273  3,930  2,292  30,161  6,371  2016 2001 4225 Wayvern Drive
Sarasota, FL — 19,660  93,373  3,416  19,660  96,789  520 2021 1985 3260 Lake Pointe Boulevard
Saskatoon, SK 3,462  981 13,905  2,049  1,062  15,873  3,993  2013 1999 220 24th Street East
Saskatoon, SK 12,645  1,382  17,609  2,690  1,636  20,045  5,376  2013 2004 1622 Acadia Drive
Savannah, GA — 1,733  15,089  1,129  1,733  16,218  419 2021 1905 6206 Waters Avenue
Schaumbur g, IL — 2,460  22,863  1,628  2,497  24,454  7,817  2013 2001 790 North Plum Grove Road
Scottsdale, AZ — 2,500  3,890  1,591  2,500  5,481  1,961  2008 1998 9410 East Thunderbird Road
Scranton, P A — 896 10,591  695 896 11,286  1,642  2019 2014 1651 Dickson Avenue
Seal Beach, CA — 6,204  72,954  3,417  6,271  76,304  25,077  2013 2004 3850 Lampson Avenue
Seattle, WA — 5,190  9,350  2,410  5,199  11,751  4,659  2010 1962 11501 15th Ave NE
Seattle, WA 27,180  10,670  37,291  2,043  10,700  39,304  15,468  2010 2005 805 4th Ave N
Seattle, WA — 1,150  19,887  2,855  1,150  22,742  4,902  2015 1995 11039 17th Avenue
Selbyville, DE — 750 25,912  1,118 769 27,01 1 7,811 2010 2008 21111 Arrington Dr
Sevenoaks, UK — 6,181  40,240  7,500  6,763  47,158  15,831  2012 2009 64 - 70 Westerham Road
Severna Park, MD — — 67,623  6,273  44 73,852  14,781  2016 1997 43 W McKinsey Road
Shelby Township, MI 13,180  1,040  26,344  1,520  1,110 27,794  8,080  2013 2006 46471 Hayes Road
Sherman, TX — 700 5,221  293 700 5,514  2,130  2005 2006 1011 E. Pecan Grove Rd.
Sherman, TX — 1,712  20,304  2,263  1,712  22,567  376 2021 1986 3701 N Loy Lake Rd
(Dollars in thousands)
Initial Cost to Company Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:
Shrewsbury , NJ — 2,120  38,116 3,292  2,160  41,368  11,780  2010 2000 5 Meridian Way
Sidcup, UK — 7,446  56,570  10,866  8,181  66,701  21,397  2012 2000 Frognal Avenue
Silver Spring, MD — — — 64,547  3,436  61,111 4,841  2016 2018 2201 Colston Drive
Simi Valley , CA — 3,200  16,664  2,481  3,340  19,005  6,573  2013 2009 190 Tierra Rejada Road
Simi Valley , CA — 5,510  51,406  8,663  5,510  60,069  14,220  2016 2003 5300 E Los Angeles Avenue
Solihull, UK — 5,070  43,297  8,755  5,549  51,573  16,606  2012 2009 1270 Warwick Road
Solihull, UK — 3,571  26,053  3,738  3,962  29,400  9,045  2013 2007 1 Worcester Way
Solihull, UK — 1,851  10,585  1,885  2,025  12,296  1,900  2015 2016 Warwick Road
Sonning, UK — 5,644  42,155  5,849  6,206  47,442  13,924  2013 2009 Old Bath Rd.
Sonoma, CA — 1,100  18,400  5,509  1,109  23,900  9,583  2005 1988 800 Oregon St.
Sonoma, CA — 2,820  21,890  3,808  2,819  25,699  5,465  2016 2005 91 Napa Road
South Jordan, UT — 4,646  42,705  4,011 4,646  46,716  5,973  2020 2015 11289 Oakmond Rd
Southlake, TX — 6,207  56,805  7,624  6,207  64,429  12,416  2019 2008 101 Watermere Drive
Spokane, WA — 3,200  25,064  3,156  3,200  28,220  9,240  2013 2001 3117 E. Chaser Lane
Spokane, WA — 2,580  25,342  3,701  2,580  29,043  8,273  2013 1999 1110 E. Westview Ct.
Spokane, WA — 1,334  11,155  842 1,334  11,997  374 2021 1985 1616 E 30th Avenue
Springdale, AR — 2,950  24,851  3,386  2,950  28,237  861 2021 1996 5000 Arkanshire Circle
Springfield, IL — 1,166  17,675  1,092  1,166  18,767  513 2021 1990 2601 Montvale Drive
Springfield, MO — 1,667  17,030  942 1,667  17,972  477 2021 1987 2900 S Jef ferson
St. Albert, AB 8,248  1,145  17,863  2,361  1,282  20,087  6,723  2014 2005 78C McKenney Avenue
St. John's, NL 4,893  706 11,765  909 759 12,621  2,437  2015 2005 64 Portugal Cove Road
St. Petersbur g, FL — 9,261  25,205  14,862  9,261  40,067  534 2021 1973 1255 Pasadena Ave South
Stephenville, TX — 1,072  3,234  230 1,072  3,464  251 2021 1990 2305 Lingleville Highway
Stittsville, ON 3,814  1,175  17,397  2,295  1,344  19,523  5,366  2013 1996 1340 - 1354 Main Street
Stockport, UK — 4,369  25,018  3,677  4,802  28,262  9,195  2013 2008 1 Dairyground Road
Stockton, CA — 2,280  5,983  2,442  2,372  8,333  2,868  2010 1988 6725 Inglewood
Strongsville, OH — 1,128  10,940  656 1,128  11,596  1,914  2019 2017 15100 Howe Road
Strongsville, OH — 2,577  12,180  1,283  2,577  13,463  497 2021 2002 19205 Pearl Rd.
Stuart, FL — 5,276  24,182  730 5,276  24,912  2,746  2019 2019 2625 SE Cove Road
Studio City , CA — 4,006  25,307  1,800  4,124  26,989  8,577  2013 2004 4610 Coldwater Canyon Avenue
Suffield, CT — 4,439  31,660  2,392  4,439  34,052  4,866  2019 1998 7 Canal Road
Sugar Land, TX — 960 31,423  1,298  960 32,721  10,642  2011 1996 1221 Seventh St
Sugar Land, TX — 4,272  60,493  6,575  4,272  67,068  13,303  2017 2015 744 Brooks Street
Summerville, SC — 2,175  17,273  744 2,175  18,017  228 2021 2017 4015 2nd Ave
Summit, NJ — 3,080  14,152  182 3,080  14,334  4,232  2011 2001 41 Springfield Avenue
Sun City West, AZ — 1,250  21,778  2,999  1,250  24,777  6,565  2012 1998 13810 West Sandridge Drive
Sunninghill, UK — 11,632  42,233  3,532  12,312  45,085  5,582  2014 2017 Bagshot Road
Sunnyvale, CA — 5,420  41,682  3,652  5,420  45,334  14,120  2012 2002 1039 East El Camino Real
Surrey , BC 5,700  3,605  18,818  3,255  3,899  21,779  7,749  2013 2000 16028 83rd Avenue
Surrey , BC 14,459  4,552  22,338  4,431  4,943  26,378  9,715  2013 1987 15501 16th Avenue
Sutton, UK — 4,096  14,532  3,016  4,485  17,159  2,435  2015 2016 123 Westmead Road
Sutton Coldfield, UK — 2,807  11,313  2,057  3,071  13,106  1,858  2015 2016 134 Jockey Road
Suwanee, GA — 1,560  11,538  1,754  1,560  13,292  4,702  2012 2000 4315 Johns Creek Parkway
Sway , UK — 4,145  15,508  3,148  4,595  18,206  5,004  2014 2008 Sway Place
Swift Current, SK — 492 10,119 1,444  539 11,516  3,495  2013 2001 301 Macoun Drive
Sycamore, IL — 1,033  10,666  735 1,033  11,401  599 2021 2003 1440 Somonauk Street(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)
Initial Cost to Company Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:
Sylvania, OH — 1,205  11,991  — 1,205  11,991  1,189  2019 2019 4120 King Road
Syracuse, NY — 1,440  11,675  863 1,440  12,538  1,947  2019 2011 6715 Buckley Road
Tacoma, WA — 4,170  73,377  18,249  4,170  91,626  23,675  2016 1987 8201 6th Avenue
Tarboro, NC — 1,651  3,151  8,024  1,651  11,175  284 2021 1983 200 Trade Street
Taylor , PA — 1,942  12,01 1 — 1,942  12,01 1 910 2019 2020 512 Oak St
Texarkana, TX — 1,403  7,111 401 1,403  7,512  256 2021 1999 5415 Cowhorn Creek Road
The Woodlands, TX — 480 12,379  956 480 13,335  4,182  2011 1999 7950 Bay Branch Dr
Toms River , NJ — 1,610  34,627  1,636  1,695  36,178  10,593  2010 2005 1587 Old Freehold Rd
Tonawanda, NY — 1,554  13,332  1,252  1,554  14,584  2,416  2019 2011 300 Fries Road
Tonawanda, NY — 2,460  12,564  1,428  2,460  13,992  2,520  2019 2009 285 Crestmount Avenue
Toronto, ON 18,236  2,927  20,713  5,064  3,203  25,501  5,045  2015 1900 54 Foxbar Road
Toronto, ON 6,790  5,082  25,493  4,239  5,562  29,252  7,893  2015 1988 645 Castlefield Avenue
Toronto, ON 12,122  2,008  19,620  4,312  2,119 23,821  4,935  2015 1999 4251 Dundas Street West
Toronto, ON 34,959  5,132  41,657  7,465  5,581  48,673  14,584  2015 1964 10 William Mor gan Drive
Toronto, ON 7,360  2,480  7,571  2,553  2,688  9,916  2,598  2015 1971 123 Spadina Road
Toronto, ON 4,489  1,079  5,364  955 1,133  6,265  1,887  2013 1982 25 Centennial Park Road
Toronto, ON 6,853  2,513  19,695  2,687  2,757  22,138  5,712  2013 2002 305 Balliol Street
Toronto, ON 16,761  3,400  32,757  4,532  3,820  36,869  11,157  2013 1973 1055 and 1057 Don Mills Road
Toronto, ON 5,521  1,447  3,918  950 1,595  4,720  1,701  2013 1987 1340 York Mills Road
Toronto, ON 29,541  5,304  53,488  6,699  5,785  59,706  20,655  2013 1988 8 The Donway East
Torrance, CA — 3,497  73,138  373 3,504  73,504  10,171  2016 2016 25535 Hawthorne Boulevard
Traverse City , MI — 1,042  24,393  1,934  1,042  26,327  785 2021 2001 3950 Sumac Dr .
Troy, NY — 1,787  13,682  441 1,787  14,123  362 2021 1997 59 Harris Road
Tuckahoe, NY — 9,341  28,084  2,994  9,341  31,078  201 2021 1999 1 Rivervue Place
Tucson, AZ — 830 6,179  6,685  830 12,864  3,083  2012 1997 5660 N. Kolb Road
Tucson, AZ — 7,010  61,480  17,814  7,010  79,294  681 2021 1987 2001 West Rudasill Road
Tulsa, OK — 1,330  21,285  2,261  1,408  23,468  10,094  2010 1986 8887 South Lewis Ave
Tulsa, OK — 1,500  20,861  14 1,614  20,761  9,723  2010 1984 9524 East 71st St
Tulsa, OK — 3,161  12,886  1,333  3,161  14,219  507 2021 2005 7401 Riverside Drive
Turlock, CA — 2,266  13,002  1,122  2,266  14,124  2,302  2019 2001 3791 Crowell Road
Tuscola, IL — 477 5,305  277 477 5,582  357 2021 2004 1106 East Northline Road
Twinsbur g, OH — 1,042  8,396  543 1,042  8,939  1,536  2019 2016 3092 Kendal Lane
Tyler, TX — 650 5,268  328 650 5,596  2,097  2006 2007 5550 Old Jacksonville Hwy .
Tyler, TX — 1,306  9,934  581 1,306  10,515  436 2021 1998 506 Rice Road
Upland, CA — 3,160  42,596  217 3,160  42,813  8,631  2015 2014 2419 North Euclid Avenue
Upper Providence, P A — 1,900  28,195  584 1,908  28,771  5,040  2013 2015 1133 Black Rock Road
Upper St Claire, P A — 1,102  13,455  1,828  1,153  15,232  5,232  2013 2005 500 Village Drive
Urbandale, IA — 1,758  4,764  750 1,758  5,514  448 2021 2012 8525 Urbandale Ave
Vacaville, CA — 900 17,100  4,956  900 22,056  8,984  2005 1987 799 Yellowstone Dr .
Vallejo, CA — 4,000  18,000  5,875  4,030  23,845  9,773  2005 1989 350 Locust Dr .
Vallejo, CA — 2,330  15,407  2,362  2,330  17,769  5,907  2010 1990 2261 Tuolumne
Vancouver , WA — 1,820  19,042  1,474  1,821  20,515  6,956  2010 2006 1001 1 NE 1 18th Ave
Vancouver , WA — 1,406  14,328  991 1,406  15,319  1,401  2020 2001 201 NW  78th St
Vancouver , BC — 7,282  6,572  2,501  7,772  8,583  6,074  2015 1974 2803 West 41st Avenue
Vancouver , WA — — 98 — — 98 4 2021 1997 13303 SE McGillvray Blvd.
Vancouver , WA — — 48 — — 48 3 2021 1968 1000 NE 82nd Ave.
(Dollars in thousands)
Initial Cost to Company Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:
Vandalia, IL — 800 4,959  375 800 5,334  417 2021 2003 1607 West Fillmore Street
Vankleek Hill, ON — 389 2,960  691 425 3,615  1,201  2013 1987 48 Wall Street
Vaudreuil, QC 7,614  1,852  14,214  2,529  1,952  16,643  3,973  2015 1975 333 rue Querbes
Venice, FL — 13,646  96,673  5,553  13,646  102,226  1,765  2021 2019 19600 Floridian Club Drive
Vero Beach, FL — 2,930  40,070  26,757  2,930  66,827  29,929  2007 2003 7955 16th Manor
Vero Beach, FL — — 722 — — 722 15 2021 1989 1700 Waterford Drive
Victoria, BC 6,210  2,856  18,038  2,324  3,115 20,103  6,547  2013 1974 3000 Shelbourne Street
Victoria, BC 18,295  3,681  15,774  2,194  3,990  17,659  5,961  2013 1988 3051 Shelbourne Street
Victoria, BC 17,001  2,476  15,379  2,715  2,713  17,857  3,714  2015 1990 3965 Shelbourne Street
Virginia Water, UK — 7,106  29,937  8,715  5,958  39,800  15,258  2012 2002 Christ Church Road
Visalia, CA — 868 15,643  1,212  868 16,855  521 2021 1987 4119 W Walnut Avenue
Voorhees, NJ — 3,700  24,312  2,902  3,862  27,052  6,621  2012 2013 311 Route 73
Voorhees, NJ — 6 69 — 6 69 5 2021 1905 209 Laurel Rd.
Waco, TX — 1,383  10,519  501 1,383  11,020  410 2021 1997 3209 Village Green Driver
Wall, NJ — 1,650  25,350  3,804  1,694  29,110 7,859  2011 2003 2021 Highway 35
Walla Walla, WA — 1,414  2,309  90 1,414  2,399  105 2021 1987 1400 Dalles Military Road
Walnut Creek, CA — 3,700  12,467  3,785  3,826  16,126  5,818  2013 1998 2175 Ygnacio Valley Road
Walnut Creek, CA — 10,320  100,890  18,671  10,320  119,561  28,158  2016 1988 1580 Geary Road
Washington, DC — 4,000  69,154  3,549  4,021  72,682  20,498  2013 2004 5111 Connecticut Avenue NW
Washington Court House, OH — 228 2,301  107 228 2,408  152 2021 1995 500 Glenn Avenue
Watchung, NJ — 1,920  24,880  2,394  2,080  27,114 7,583  2011 2000 680 Mountain Boulevard
Waterford, MI — 988 12,384  822 988 13,206  385 2021 1999 900 N. Cass Lake Road
Waterville, OH — 2,574  44,647  1,050  2,574  45,697  2,619  2020 2018 1470 Pray Blvd
Waukee, IA — 1,870  31,878  1,323  1,900  33,171  7,878  2012 2007 1650 SE Holiday Crest Circle
Waxahachie, TX — 650 5,763  356 650 6,119 2,168  2007 2008 1329 Brown St.
Wayland, MA — 1,207  27,462  2,549  1,364  29,854  9,351  2013 1997 285 Commonwealth Road
Weatherford, TX — 660 5,261  402 660 5,663  2,110 2006 2007 1818 Martin Drive
Webster Groves, MO — 1,790  15,425  2,894  1,812  18,297  6,092  2011 2012 45 E Lockwood Avenue
Wellesley , MA — 4,690  77,462  916 4,690  78,378  17,602  2015 2012 23 & 27 Washington Street
West Babylon, NY — 3,960  47,085  2,822  4,062  49,805  14,009  2013 2003 580 Montauk Highway
West Bloomfield, MI — 1,040  12,300  1,035  1,100  13,275  4,119 2013 2000 7005 Pontiac Trail
West Chester Township, OH — 2,319  47,857  1,288  2,319  49,145  2,954  2020 2019 7129 Gilmore Rd
West Covina, CA — 111 277 — 111 277 3 2021 1985 3601 Holt Avenue
West Hills, CA — 2,600  7,521  1,990  2,658  9,453  3,732  2013 2002 9012 Topanga Canyon Road
West Seneca, NY — 1,432  6,684  634 1,432  7,318  1,348  2019 2000 1187 Orchard Park Drive
West Seneca, NY — 1,323  7,547  604 1,323  8,151  1,297  2019 2007 2341 Union Road
West Vancouver , BC 16,805  7,059  28,155  7,637  7,703  35,148  10,353  2013 1987 2095 Marine Drive
Westbourne, UK — 5,441  41,420  10,339  5,956  51,244  14,279  2013 2006 16-18 Poole Road
Westford, MA — 1,440  32,607  562 1,468  33,141  6,852  2015 2013 108 Littleton Road
Weston, MA — 1,160  3,018  — 1,160  3,018  1,398  2013 1998 135 North Avenue
Westworth Village, TX — 2,060  31,296  103 2,060  31,399  5,821  2014 2014 25 Leonard Trail
Weybridge, UK — 7,899  48,240  6,189  8,680  53,648  17,135  2013 2008 Ellesmere Road
Weymouth, UK — 2,591  16,551  2,357  2,873  18,626  3,954  2014 2013 Cross Road
White Oak, MD — 2,304  24,768  3,224  2,463  27,833  8,036  2013 2002 11621 New Hampshire Avenue
Whitesboro, NY — 1,630  12,001  789 1,630  12,790  1,905  2019 2015 4770 Clinton Road
Willoughby , OH — 1,309  10,540  662 1,309  11,202  1,637  2019 2016 35100 Chardon Road
Wilmington, DE — 1,040  23,338  2,540  1,244  25,674  7,606  2013 2004 2215 Shipley Street
Wilmington, NC — 1,538  26,208  1,994  1,538  28,202  831 2021 1991 1402 Hospital Plaza Drive
Winchester , UK — 6,009  29,405  4,135  6,595  32,954  10,155  2012 2010 Stockbridge Road(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)
Initial Cost to Company Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:
Winnipeg, MB 10,577  1,960  38,612  7,230  2,242  45,560  16,190  2013 1999 857 Wilkes Avenue
Winnipeg, MB 24,100  1,276  21,732  3,534  1,661  24,881  7,039  2013 1988 3161 Grant Avenue
Winnipeg, MB 11,605  1,317  15,609  3,955  1,448  19,433  4,752  2015 1999 125 Portsmouth Boulevard
Woking, UK — 2,990  12,523  1,444  3,172  13,785  1,646  2016 2017 12 Streets Heath, West End
Wolverhampton, UK — 2,941  8,922  1,709  3,225  10,347  4,322  2013 2008 73 Wergs Road
Woodland Hills, CA — 3,400  20,478  1,551  3,456  21,973  7,130  2013 2005 20461 Ventura Boulevard
Wyoming, MI — 3,373  23,195  2,124  3,373  25,319  859 2021 1999 2380 Aurora Pond Dr . SW
Yakima, WA — 1,104  10,030  677 1,104  10,707  334 2021 1905 620 North 34th Avenue
Yonkers, NY — 3,962  50,107  2,705  4,074  52,700  15,297  2013 2005 65 Crisfield Street
Yorkton, SK 2,808  463 8,760  1,096  503 9,816  2,912  2013 2001 94 Russell Drive
Seniors Housing Operating Total $ 1,599,522  $ 1,958,208  $ 15,959,072  $ 2,969,135  $ 2,110,813  $ 18,775,602  $ 4,123,782  
119
Welltower Inc.  
Schedule III  
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  
December 31, 2021  
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
Abilene, TX $ — $ 950 $ 20,987  $ 11,660  $ 950 $ 32,647  $ 5,156  2014 1998 6565 Central Park Boulevard
Abilene, TX — 990 8,187  1,089  990 9,276  1,784  2014 1985 1250 East N 10th Street
Agawam, MA — 880 13,130  — 880 13,130  9,152  2002 1993 1200 Suf field St.
Akron, OH — 633 3,002  — 633 3,002  291 2018 1999 171 North Cleveland Massillon Road
Alexandria, VA — 2,452  6,826  — 2,452  6,826  639 2018 1964 1510 Collingwood Road
Alhambra, CA — 600 6,305  8,847  600 15,152  3,181  2011 1923 1118 N. Stoneman Ave.
Allen Park, MI — 1,767  5,025  — 1,767  5,025  476 2018 1960 9150 Allen Road
Allentown, P A — 494 11,845  — 494 11,845  1,094  2018 1995 5151 Hamilton Boulevard
Allentown, P A — 1,491  4,822  — 1,491  4,822  467 2018 1988 1265 Cedar Crest Boulevard
Alma, MI — 1,267  6,543  — 1,267  6,543  326 2020 2009 1320 Pine Ave
Ames, IA — 330 8,870  758 330 9,628  2,799  2010 1999 1325 Coconino Rd.
Ann Arbor , MI — 2,172  11,123  — 2,172  11,123  1,109  2018 1997 4701 East Huron River Drive
Annandale, VA — 1,687  18,974  — 1,687  18,974  1,714  2018 2002 7104 Braddock Road
Arlington, VA — 4,016  8,801  — 4,016  8,801  811 2018 1976 550 South Carlin Southprings Road
Asheboro, NC — 290 5,032  312 290 5,344  2,511 2003 1998 514 Vision Dr .
Asheville, NC — 204 3,489  — 204 3,489  2,099  1999 1999 4 Walden Ridge Dr .
Asheville, NC — 280 1,955  671 280 2,626  1,188  2003 1992 308 Overlook Rd.
Atchison, KS — 140 5,610  23 140 5,633  951 2015 2001 1301 N 4th St.
Austin, TX — 1,691  5,005  — 1,691  5,005  616 2018 2000 11630 Four Iron Drive
Avon, IN — 1,830  14,470  1,201  1,830  15,671  4,763  2010 2004 182 S Country RD. 550E
Avon, IN — 900 19,444  — 900 19,444  4,031  2014 2013 10307 E. CR 100 N
Avon, CT — 2,132  7,624  — 2,132  7,624  861 2018 2000 100 Fisher Drive
Azusa, CA — 570 3,141  7,430  570 10,571  4,041  1998 1953 125 W. Sierra Madre Ave.
Bad Axe, MI — 1,317  5,972  — 1,317  5,972  333 2020 2010 150 Meadow Lane
Baldwin City , KS — 190 4,810  55 190 4,865  842 2015 2000 321 Crimson Ave
Baltimore, MD — 4,306  4,303  — 4,306  4,303  434 2018 1978 6600 Ridge Road
Baltimore, MD — 3,069  3,148  — 3,069  3,148  338 2018 1996 4669 Falls Road
Barberton, OH — 1,307  9,310  — 1,307  9,310  853 2018 1979 85 Third Street
Bartlesville, OK — 100 1,380  — 100 1,380  924 1996 1995 5420 S.E. Adams Blvd.
Bay City , MI — 633 2,619  — 633 2,619  274 2018 1968 800 Mulholland Street
Bedford, P A — 637 4,432  — 637 4,432  481 2018 1965 136 Donahoe Manor Road
Belmont, CA — 3,000  23,526  1,728  3,000  25,254  8,439  2011 1971 1301 Ralston Avenue
Belvidere, NJ — 2,001  26,191  — 2,001  26,191  2,457  2019 2009 1 Brookfield Ct
Benbrook, TX — 1,550  13,553  2,747  1,550  16,300  4,093  2011 1984 4242 Bryant Irvin Road
Berkeley , CA 11,421  3,050  32,677  5,008  3,050  37,685  8,017  2016 1966 2235 Sacramento Street
Bethel Park, P A — 1,700  16,007  — 1,700  16,007  5,546  2007 2009 5785 Baptist Road
Bethel Park, P A — 1,008  6,740  — 1,008  6,740  662 2018 1986 60 Highland Road
Bethesda, MD — 2,218  6,869  — 2,218  6,869  621 2018 1974 6530 Democracy Boulevard
Bethlehem, P A — 1,191  16,887  — 1,191  16,887  1,485  2018 1979 2021 Westgate Drive
Bethlehem, P A — 1,143  13,588  — 1,143  13,588  1,202  2018 1982 2029 Westgate Drive
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
Beverly , MA — 5,879  10,378  — 5,879  10,378  — 2021 1874 3 Essex Street
Beverly Hills, CA — 6,000  13,385  203 6,000  13,588  2,442  2014 2000 220 N Clark Drive
Bexleyheath, UK — 3,750  10,807  1,373  4,104  11,826  2,222  2014 1996 35 West Street
Bingham Farms, MI — 781 15,671  — 781 15,671  1,429  2018 1999 24005 West 13 Mile Road
Birmingham, UK — 1,647  14,853  1,555  1,802  16,253  2,839  2015 2010 Clinton Street, Winson Green
Birmingham, UK — 1,591  19,092  1,951  1,742  20,892  3,596  2015 2010 Braymoor Road, Tile Cross
Birmingham, UK — 1,462  9,056  992 1,600  9,910  1,757  2015 2010 Clinton Street, Winson Green
Birmingham, UK — 1,184  10,085  1,063  1,296  11,036  1,914  2015 1997 122 Tile Cross Road, Garretts Green
Bloomington, IN — 670 17,423  — 670 17,423  3,136  2015 2015 363 S. Fieldstone Boulevard
Boca Raton, FL — 2,200  4,974  — 2,200  4,974  591 2018 1994 7225 Boca Del Mar Drive
Boca Raton, FL — 2,826  4,061  — 2,826  4,061  431 2018 1984 375 Northwest 51st Street
Bossier City , LA — 2,009  31,198  — 2,009  31,198  — 2021 2018 2000 Blake Blvd
Boulder , CO — 3,601  21,364  — 3,601  21,364  2,084  2018 1990 2800 Palo Parkway
Bournemouth, UK — 2,636  18,273  — 2,636  18,273  1,198  2019 2017 Poole Lane
Boynton Beach, FL — 2,138  10,201  — 2,138  10,201  1,018  2018 1991 3600 Old Boynton Road
Boynton Beach, FL — 2,804  14,222  — 2,804  14,222  1,296  2018 1984 3001 South Congress Avenue
Bracknell, UK — 4,081  11,470  491 4,320  11,722  1,347  2014 2017 Crowthorne Road North
Bradenton, FL — 252 3,298  — 252 3,298  2,221  1996 1995 6101 Pointe W. Blvd.
Bradenton, FL — 480 9,953  157 480 10,110 2,511 2012 2000 2800 60th Avenue West
Braintree, UK — — 13,296  1,254  — 14,550  2,812  2014 2009 Meadow Park Tortoiseshell Way
Braintree, MA — 170 7,157  1,290  170 8,447  8,447  1997 1968 1102 Washington St.
Brecksville, OH — 990 19,353  451 990 19,804  3,977  2014 2011 8757 Brecksville Road
Brick, NJ — 1,290  25,247  1,330  1,290  26,577  7,402  2011 2000 458 Jack Martin Blvd.
Bridgewater , NJ — 1,800  31,810  1,678  1,800  33,488  9,305  2011 2001 680 US-202/206 North
Bristol, UK — — — 22,605  4,330  18,275  2,414  2015 2017 339 Badminton Road
Bristol, UK — — — 15,566  2,309  13,257  1,077  2017 2019 Avon Valley Care Home, Tenniscourt Road
Brooks, AB — 376 4,951  453 407 5,373  1,079  2014 2000 951 Cassils Road West
Broomfield, CO — — — 28,980  2,566  26,414  — 2016 2018 12600 Lowell Boulevard
Bucyrus, OH — 1,119 2,611 — 1,119 2,611 293 2018 1976 1170 West Mansfield Street
Burleson, TX — 670 13,985  2,457  670 16,442  4,365  2011 1988 300 Huguley Boulevard
Burlington, NC — 280 4,297  849 280 5,146  2,397  2003 2000 3619 S. Mebane St.
Burlington, NC — 460 5,467  110 460 5,577  2,659  2003 1997 3615 S. Mebane St.
Burnaby , BC — 7,623  13,844  1,796  8,257  15,006  3,054  2014 2006 7195 Canada Way
Calgary , AB — 2,341  42,768  3,820  2,536  46,393  8,976  2014 1971 1729-90th Avenue SW
Calgary , AB — 4,569  70,199  6,224  4,948  76,044  14,586  2014 2001 500 Midpark Way SE
Camp Hill, P A — 517 3,596  — 517 3,596  339 2018 1970 1700 Market Street
Canonsbur g, PA — 911 4,828  — 911 4,828  497 2018 1986 113 West McMurray Road
Canton, OH — 300 2,098  — 300 2,098  1,264  1998 1998 1119 Perry Dr ., N.W .
Canton, MI — 1,399  16,966  — 1,399  16,966  1,542  2018 2005 7025 Lilley Road
Cape Coral, FL — 530 3,281  — 530 3,281  1,707  2002 2000 911 Santa Barbara Blvd.
Cape Coral, FL 7,706  760 18,868  400 760 19,268  4,808  2012 2009 831 Santa Barbara Boulevard
Carlisle, P A — 978 8,204  — 978 8,204  793 2018 1987 940 Walnut Bottom Road
Carmel, IN — 2,222  31,004  — 2,222  31,004  647 2021 2018 13390 N. Illinois St
Carmel, IN — 1,700  19,491  1 1,700  19,492  3,620  2015 2015 12315 Pennsylvania Street
Carrollton, TX — 2,010  19,549  — 2,010  19,549  2,784  2014 2016 2645 East Trinity Mills Road(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
Cary , NC — 1,500  4,350  1,366  1,500  5,716  3,084  1998 1996 111 MacArthur
Castleton, IN — 920 15,137  — 920 15,137  3,259  2014 2013 8405 Clearvista Lake
Cedar Rapids, IA — 596 9,354  16 614 9,352  835 2018 1965 1940 1st Avenue Northeast
Centerville, OH — 920 3,958  — 920 3,958  547 2018 1997 1001 E. Alex Bell Road
Chagrin Falls, OH — 832 10,837  — 832 10,837  1,032  2018 1999 8100 East Washington Street
Chambersbur g, PA — 1,373  8,862  — 1,373  8,862  887 2018 1976 1070 Stouf fer Avenue
Chapel Hill, NC — 354 2,646  1,617  354 4,263  1,747  2002 1997 100 Lanark Rd.
Charlottesville, VA — 2,542  40,746  — 2,542  40,746  — 2021 2019 250 Nichols Ct.
Chatham, VA — 320 14,039  69 320 14,108  2,968  2014 2009 100 Rorer Street
Chattanooga, TN — 2,085  11,837  — 2,085  11,837  554 2021 1999 1148 Mountain Creek Road
Cherry Hill, NJ — 1,416  9,871  — 1,416  9,871  978 2018 1997 2700 Chapel Avenue West
Chester , VA — 1,320  18,127  147 1,320  18,274  3,792  2014 2009 12001 Iron Bridge Road
Chevy Chase, MD — 4,515  8,685  — 4,515  8,685  810 2018 1964 8700 Jones Mill Road
Chickasha, OK — 85 1,395  — 85 1,395  929 1996 1996 801 Country Club Rd.
Chillicothe, OH — 1,145  8,994  — 1,145  8,994  833 2018 1977 1058 Columbus Street
Cincinnati, OH — 912 14,010  — 912 14,010  1,318  2018 2000 6870 Clough Pike
Citrus Heights, CA — 5,207  31,715  — 5,207  31,715  2,807  2018 1988 7807 Upland Way
Claremore, OK — 155 1,427  6,130  155 7,557  2,157  1996 1996 1605 N. Hwy . 88
Clarksville, TN — 330 2,292  — 330 2,292  1,376  1998 1998 2183 Memorial Dr .
Clayton, NC — 520 15,733  72 520 15,805  3,069  2014 2013 84 Johnson Estate Road
Clevedon, UK — 2,838  16,927  1,863  3,105  18,523  3,578  2014 1994 18/19 Elton Road
Clifton, NJ — 3,881  34,941  — 3,881  34,941  935 2021 2021 782 Valley Road
Cloquet, MN — 340 4,660  120 340 4,780  1,374  2011 2006 705 Horizon Circle
Cobham, UK — 9,808  24,991  3,275  10,727  27,347  6,015  2013 2013 Redhill Road
Colorado Springs, CO — 4,280  62,168  — 4,280  62,168  10,121  2015 2008 1605 Elm Creek View
Colorado Springs, CO — 1,730  25,493  693 1,730  26,186  4,336  2016 2016 2818 Grand Vista Circle
Columbia, TN — 341 2,295  — 341 2,295  1,377  1999 1999 5011 Trotwood Ave.
Columbia, SC — 1,699  2,319  — 1,699  2,319  240 2018 1968 2601 Forest Drive
Columbia Heights, MN — 825 14,175  163 825 14,338  3,875  2011 2009 3807 Hart Boulevard
Concord, NC — 550 3,921  683 550 4,604  2,048  2003 1997 2452 Rock Hill Church Rd.
Congleton, UK — 2,036  5,120  675 2,228  5,603  1,055  2014 1994 Rood Hill
Coppell, TX — 1,550  8,386  376 1,550  8,762  2,137  2012 2013 1530 East Sandy Lake Road
Corby , UK — 1,228  5,144  794 1,225  5,941  751 2017 1997 25 Rockingham Road
Costa Mesa, CA — 2,050  19,969  969 2,050  20,938  7,087  2011 1965 350 West Bay St
Coventry , UK — 1,962  13,830  1,489  2,147  15,134  2,724  2015 2014 1 Glendale Way
Crawfordsville, IN — 720 17,239  1,426  720 18,665  3,894  2014 2013 517 Concord Road
Dallastown, P A — 1,377  16,797  — 1,377  16,797  1,582  2018 1979 100 West Queen Street
Danville, VA — 410 3,954  1,073  410 5,027  2,291  2003 1998 149 Executive Ct.
Danville, VA — 240 8,436  653 240 9,089  1,801  2014 1996 508 Rison Street
Daphne, AL — 2,880  8,670  384 2,880  9,054  2,402  2012 2001 27440 County Road 13
Davenport, IA — 566 2,017  — 566 2,017  195 2018 1966 815 East Locust Street
Davenport, IA — 910 20,038  — 910 20,038  1,835  2018 2008 3800 Commerce Blvd.
Dayton, OH — 1,188  5,412  — 1,188  5,412  544 2018 1977 1974 North Fairfield Road
Dearborn Heights, MI — 1,197  3,394  — 1,197  3,394  375 2018 1964 26001 Ford Road
Decatur , GA — 1,413  13,796  — 1,413  13,796  1,209  2018 1977 2722 North Decatur Road
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
Delray Beach, FL — 1,158  13,572  — 1,158  13,572  1,286  2018 1998 16150 Jog Road
Delray Beach, FL — 2,125  11,840  — 2,125  11,840  1,154  2018 1998 16200 Jog Road
Denton, TX — 1,760  8,305  412 1,760  8,717  2,584  2010 2011 2125 Brinker Rd
Denver , CO — 3,222  24,804  — 3,222  24,804  2,183  2018 1988 290 South Monaco Parkway
Derby , UK — 2,359  8,539  638 2,498  9,038  1,431  2014 2015 Rykneld Road
Dowagiac, MI — 825 1,778  — 825 1,778  149 2020 2006 29601 Amerihost Dr
Droitwich, UK — — — 16,185  3,848  12,337  372 2018 2020 Former Spring Meadows PH, Mulberry Tree Hill
Dublin, OH — 1,393  2,911 — 1,393  2,911 334 2018 2014 4075 W. Dublin-Granville Road
Dubuque, IA — 568 8,902  — 568 8,902  796 2018 1971 901 West Third Street
Dunedin, FL — 1,883  13,325  — 1,883  13,325  1,199  2018 1983 870 Patricia Avenue
Durham, NC — 1,476  10,659  3,168  1,476  13,827  12,675  1997 1999 4434 Ben Franklin Blvd.
Eagan, MN 15,580  2,260  31,643  300 2,260  31,943  5,222  2015 2004 3810 Alder Avenue
East Brunswick, NJ — 1,380  34,229  1,093  1,380  35,322  9,607  2011 1998 606 Cranbury Rd.
Eastbourne, UK — 4,071  24,438  2,688  4,455  26,742  5,100  2014 1999 Carew Road
Easton, P A — 1,109  7,500  — 1,109  7,500  919 2018 2015 4100 Freemansbur g Avenue
Easton, P A — 1,430  13,396  — 1,430  13,396  1,268  2018 1981 2600 Northampton Street
Easton, P A — 1,620  10,049  — 1,620  10,049  1,123  2018 2000 4100 Freemansbur g Avenue
Eden, NC — 390 4,877  141 390 5,018  2,392  2003 1998 314 W. Kings Hwy .
Edmond, OK — 1,810  14,849  3,260  1,810  18,109  3,437  2014 1985 1225 Lakeshore Drive
Edmond, OK — 1,650  25,167  1,700  1,650  26,867  3,545  2014 2017 2709 East Danforth Road
Edmond, OK — 410 8,388  226 410 8,614  2,214  2012 2001 15401 North Pennsylvania Avenue
Elizabeth City , NC — 200 2,760  2,837  200 5,597  2,599  1998 1999 400 Hastings Lane
Elk Grove Village, IL — 1,344  7,073  — 1,344  7,073  700 2018 1995 1940 Ner ge Road Elk
Elk Grove Village, IL — 3,733  18,745  — 3,733  18,745  1,642  2018 1988 1920 Ner ge Road
Encinitas, CA — 1,460  7,721  1,987  1,460  9,708  5,117 2000 1988 335 Saxony Rd.
Escondido, CA — 1,520  24,024  785 1,520  24,809  8,286  2011 1987 1500 Borden Rd
Eureka, KS — 50 3,950  71 50 4,021  682 2015 1994 1820 E River St
Everett, WA — 1,400  5,476  — 1,400  5,476  3,210  1999 1999 2015 Lake Heights Dr .
Exton, P A — 3,600  27,267  342 3,600  27,609  3,009  2017 2018 501 Thomas Jones Way
Fairfax, VA — 1,827  17,304  — 1,827  17,304  1,652  2018 1997 12469 Lee Jackson Mem Highway
Fairfax, VA — 4,099  17,614  — 4,099  17,614  1,645  2018 1990 12475 Lee Jackson Memorial Highway
Fairhope, AL — 570 9,119 112 570 9,231  2,418  2012 1987 50 Spring Run Road
Fall River , MA — 620 5,829  4,856  620 10,685  6,218  1996 1973 1748 Highland Ave.
Fanwood, NJ — 2,850  55,175  1,467  2,850  56,642  15,165  2011 1982 295 South Ave.
Faribault, MN — 780 11,539  300 780 11,839  1,887  2015 2003 828 1st Street NE
Farmington, CT — 1,693  10,455  — 1,693  10,455  1,018  2018 1997 45 South Road
Farnborough, UK — 2,036  5,737  733 2,228  6,278  1,149  2014 1980 Bruntile Close, Reading Road
Fayetteville, NY — 410 3,962  500 410 4,462  2,293  2001 1997 5125 Highbridge St.
Fayetteville, P A — 2,150  20,221  — 2,150  20,221  5,122  2015 1991 6375 Chambersbur g Road
Findlay , OH — 200 1,800  — 200 1,800  1,147  1997 1997 725 Fox Run Rd.
Fishers, IN — 1,500  14,500  1,001  1,500  15,501  4,766  2010 2000 9745 Olympia Dr .
Fishers, IN — 2,314  33,731  — 2,314  33,731  705 2021 2018 12950 Tablick St
Fishersville, VA — 788 2,101  3 788 2,104  1,143  2018 1998 83 Crossroad Lane
Flint, MI — 1,271  18,050  — 1,271  18,050  1,601  2018 1969 3011 North Center Road
Florence, NJ — 300 2,978  — 300 2,978  1,545  2002 1999 901 Broad St.(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
Flower Mound, TX — 1,800  8,414  375 1,800  8,789  2,331  2011 2012 4141 Long Prairie Road
Floyd, VA — 680 3,618  4 680 3,622  894 2018 1979 237 Franklin Pike Rd SE
Forest City , NC — 320 4,497  226 320 4,723  2,218  2003 1999 493 Piney Ridge Rd.
Fort Collins, CO — 3,680  58,608  — 3,680  58,608  9,511 2015 2007 4750 Pleasant Oak Drive
Fort Wayne, IN — 1,770  19,930  1,652  1,770  21,582  6,308  2010 2008 611 W County Line Rd South
Fort Worth, TX — 450 13,615  5,086  450 18,701  6,010  2010 2011 425 Alabama Ave.
Fort Worth, TX — 2,781  23,053  — 2,781  23,053  — 2021 2015 8600 N Riverside Dr
Fredericksbur g, VA — 1,000  20,000  2,161  1,000  22,161  8,991  2005 1999 3500 Meekins Dr .
Fredericksbur g, VA — 1,130  23,202  182 1,130  23,384  4,681  2014 2010 140 Brimley Drive
Ft. Myers, FL — 1,110 10,559  — 1,110 10,559  1,011 2018 1999 15950 McGregor Boulevard
Ft. Myers, FL — 2,139  18,235  — 2,139  18,235  1,708  2018 1990 1600 Matthew Drive
Ft. Myers, FL — 2,502  9,741  — 2,502  9,741  1,104  2018 2000 13881 Eagle Ridge Drive
Gahanna, OH — 2,432  34,645  — 2,432  34,645  375 2021 2017 5435 Morse Road
Gainesville, FL — 972 8,809  — 972 8,809  299 2021 2000 1415 Fort Clarke Blvd
Gainesville, FL — — — 31,503  2,374  29,129  1,853  2016 2018 3605 NW  83rd Street
Galesbur g, IL — 1,708  3,839  — 1,708  3,839  364 2018 1964 280 East Losey Street
Gardner , KS — 200 2,800  93 200 2,893  520 2015 2000 869 Juniper Terrace
Gastonia, NC — 470 6,129  77 470 6,206  2,971  2003 1998 1680 S. New Hope Rd.
Gastonia, NC — 310 3,096  113 310 3,209  1,568  2003 1994 1717 Union Rd.
Gastonia, NC — 400 5,029  807 400 5,836  2,506  2003 1996 1750 Robinwood Rd.
Geneva, IL — 1,502  16,193  — 1,502  16,193  1,511 2018 2000 2388 Bricher Road
Geor getown, TX — 200 2,100  — 200 2,100  1,328  1997 1997 2600 University Dr ., E.
Glen Ellyn, IL — 1,496  6,634  — 1,496  6,634  689 2018 2001 2S706 Park Boulevard
Granbury , TX — 2,550  2,940  777 2,550  3,717  1,155  2012 1996 916 East Highway 377
Granger , IN — 1,670  21,280  2,455  1,670  23,735  6,867  2010 2009 6330 North Fir Rd
Grapevine, TX — 2,220  17,648  261 2,220  17,909  2,902  2013 2014 4545 Merlot Drive
Greeley , CO — 1,077  18,051  310 1,077  18,361  2,413  2017 2009 5300 West 29th Street
Greensboro, NC — 330 2,970  662 330 3,632  1,750  2003 1996 5809 Old Oak Ridge Rd.
Greensboro, NC — 560 5,507  1,813  560 7,320  3,224  2003 1997 4400 Lawndale Dr .
Greenville, NC — 290 4,393  353 290 4,746  2,205  2003 1998 2715 Dickinson Ave.
Greenville, SC — 310 4,750  394 310 5,144  2,253  2004 1997 23 Southpointe Dr .
Greenville, MI — 1,490  4,341  — 1,490  4,341  285 2020 2016 1515 Meijer Dr
Greenville, SC — 1,751  8,771  — 1,751  8,771  840 2018 1966 600 Sulphur Springs Road
Greenville, SC — 947 1,445  — 947 1,445  232 2018 1976 601 Sulphur Springs Road
Greenwood, IN — 1,550  22,770  166 1,550  22,936  6,726  2010 2007 2339 South SR 135
Grosse Pointe, MI — 867 2,385  — 867 2,385  240 2018 1964 21401 Mack Avenue
Hamilton, NJ — 440 4,469  — 440 4,469  2,313  2001 1998 1645 Whitehorse-Mercerville Rd.
Hanford, UK — 1,382  9,829  1,056  1,512  10,755  2,390  2013 2012 Bankhouse Road
Harahan, LA — 2,628  38,864  — 2,628  38,864  — 2021 2020 7904 Jef ferson Hwy
Harrisbur g, PA — 569 12,822  — 569 12,822  1,191  2018 2000 2625 Ailanthus Lane
Harrow , UK — 7,402  8,266  1,477  8,100  9,045  1,769  2014 2001 177 Preston Hill
Hastings, MI — 1,603  6,519  — 1,603  6,519  358 2020 2002 1821 N. East St
Hatboro, P A — — 28,112 1,771  — 29,883  8,489  2011 1996 3485 Davisville Road
Hatboro, P A — 1,192  7,608  — 1,192  7,608  964 2018 2000 779 West County Line Road
Hatfield, UK — 2,924  7,527  985 3,200  8,236  1,844  2013 2012 St Albans Road East
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
Hattiesbur g, MS — 450 13,469  — 450 13,469  3,834  2010 2009 217 Methodist Hospital Blvd
Haverhill, MA — 5,519  19,554  — 5,519  19,554  — 2021 2018 10 Residences Way
Hermitage, TN — 1,500  9,943  540 1,500  10,483  2,742  2011 2006 4131 Andrew Jackson Parkway
Herne Bay , UK — 1,900  24,353  3,231  2,079  27,405  6,451  2013 2011 165 Reculver Road
Hiawatha, KS — 40 4,210  29 40 4,239  743 2015 1996 400 Kansas Ave
Hickory , NC — 290 987 392 290 1,379  719 2003 1994 2530 16th St. N.E.
High Point, NC — 560 4,443  1,406  560 5,849  2,572  2003 2000 1568 Skeet Club Rd.
High Point, NC — 370 2,185  994 370 3,179  1,324  2003 1999 1564 Skeet Club Rd.
High Point, NC — 330 3,395  142 330 3,537  1,689  2003 1994 201 Hartley Dr .
High Point, NC — 430 4,143  1,001  430 5,144  2,034  2003 1998 1560 Skeet Club Rd.
Highlands Ranch, CO — 940 3,721  4,983  940 8,704  2,941  2002 1999 9160 S. University Blvd.
Hillsboro, OH — 1,792  6,339  — 1,792  6,339  830 2018 1983 1141 Northview Drive
Hinckley , UK — 2,159  4,194  599 2,363  4,589  1,125  2013 2013 Tudor Road
Hinsdale, IL — 4,033  24,280  — 4,033  24,280  2,141  2018 1971 600 W Ogden Avenue
Holton, KS — 40 7,460  13 40 7,473  1,222  2015 1996 410 Juniper Dr
Homewood, IL — 2,395  7,649  — 2,395  7,649  690 2018 1989 940 Maple Avenue
Howard, WI — 579 32,122  5,943  684 37,960  4,653  2017 2016 2790 Elm Tree Hill
Huntingdon Valley , PA — 1,150  3,728  — 1,150  3,728  501 2018 1993 3430 Huntingdon Pike
Huntsville, AL — 1,382  14,286  — 1,382  14,286  437 2021 2001 4801 Whitesport Cir SW
Hutchinson, KS — 600 10,590  774 600 11,364  4,843  2004 1997 2416 Brentwood
Independence, VA — 1,082  6,767  7 1,082  6,774  1,612  2018 1998 400 S Independence Ave
Indianapolis, IN — 870 14,688  — 870 14,688  3,175  2014 2014 1635 N Arlington Avenue
Jackson, NJ — 6,500  26,405  4,240  6,500  30,645  6,848  2012 2001 2 Kathleen Drive
Jacksonville, FL — 2,932  14,269  — 2,932  14,269  465 2021 1999 3455 San Pablo Rd S
Jacksonville, FL — 750 25,231  163 750 25,394  3,623  2013 2014 5939 Roosevelt Boulevard
Jacksonville, FL — — 26,381  1,911 1,691  26,601  3,782  2013 2014 4000 San Pablo Parkway
Jefferson Hills, P A — 2,265  13,614  — 2,265  13,614  1,847  2018 1997 380 Wray Lar ge Road
Jersey Shore, P A — 600 8,104  — 600 8,104  704 2018 1973 1008 Thompson Street
Kansas City , KS — 700 20,115 — 700 20,115 3,458  2015 2015 8900 Parallel Parkway
Katy , TX — 1,778  22,622  — 1,778  22,622  3,026  2017 2015 24802 Kingsland Boulevard
Kensington, MD — 1,753  18,621  — 1,753  18,621  1,674  2018 2002 4301 Knowles Avenue
Kenwood, OH — 821 11,040  — 821 11,040  1,026  2018 2000 4580 East Galbraith Road
Kettering, OH — 1,229  4,701  — 1,229  4,701  497 2018 1977 3313 Wilmington Pike
King of Prussia, P A — 720 14,776  — 720 14,776  1,423  2018 1995 620 West Valley For ge Road
King of Prussia, P A — 1,205  4,725  — 1,205  4,725  538 2018 1990 600 West Valley For ge Road
Kingsford, MI — 1,362  10,594  — 1,362  10,594  1,025  2018 1968 1225 Woodward Avenue
Kingsport, TN — 2,123  33,130  — 2,123  33,130  — 2021 2019 915 Holston Hills Dr .
Kirkstall, UK — 2,437  9,414  1,117 2,666  10,302  2,295  2013 2009 29 Broad Lane
Knoxville, TN — 2,207  12,849  — 2,207  12,849  606 2021 2001 8501 S. Northshore Drive
Kokomo, IN — 710 16,044  — 710 16,044  3,461  2014 2014 2200 S. Dixon Rd
Lacey , WA — 2,582  18,175  — 2,582  18,175  1,657  2018 2012 4524 Intelco Loop SE
Lafayette, IN — 670 16,833  1 670 16,834  3,364  2015 2014 2402 South Street
Lafayette, CO — 1,420  20,192  — 1,420  20,192  3,714  2015 2015 329 Exempla Circle
Lakeway , TX — 5,142  23,203  — 5,142  23,203  5,439  2007 2011 2000 Medical Dr
Lakewood, CO — 2,160  28,091  62 2,160  28,153  5,775  2014 2010 7395 West Eastman Place(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
Lakewood Ranch, FL — 650 6,714  2,010  650 8,724  2,153  2011 2012 8230 Nature's Way
Lakewood Ranch, FL — 1,000  22,388  314 1,000  22,702  5,594  2012 2005 8220 Natures Way
Lancaster , PA — 1,680  14,039  — 1,680  14,039  1,954  2015 2017 31 Millersville Road
Lancaster , PA — 1,011 7,502  — 1,011 7,502  708 2018 1966 100 Abbeyville Road
Lapeer , MI — 1,827  8,794  — 1,827  8,794  453 2020 2004 101 Devonshire Dr
Largo, FL — 1,166  3,426  — 1,166  3,426  418 2018 1997 300 Highland Avenue Northeast
Laureldale, P A — 1,171  14,420  — 1,171  14,420  1,314  2018 1980 2125 Elizabeth Avenue
Lawrence, KS — 250 8,716  64 250 8,780  2,150  2012 1996 3220 Peterson Road
Lebanon, P A — 728 10,367  — 728 10,367  1,035  2018 1998 100 Tuck Court
Lebanon, P A — 1,214  5,960  — 1,214  5,960  667 2018 1980 900 Tuck Street
Lee, MA — 290 18,135  926 290 19,061  9,773  2002 1998 600 & 620 Laurel St.
Leeds, UK — 1,974  13,239  1,434  2,160  14,487  2,511 2015 2013 100 Grove Lane
Leicester , UK — 3,060  24,410  2,589  3,348  26,71 1 6,276  2012 2010 307 London Road
Lenoir , NC — 190 3,748  920 190 4,668  2,150  2003 1998 1145 Powell Rd., N.E.
Lethbridge, AB — 1,214  2,750  340 1,315  2,989  771 2014 2003 785 Columbia Boulevard West
Lexana, KS — 480 1,770  152 480 1,922  375 2015 1994 8710 Caenen Lake Rd
Lexington, NC — 200 3,900  1,153  200 5,053  2,475  2002 1997 161 Young Dr .
Libertyville, IL — 6,500  40,024  2,612  6,500  42,636  11,807  2011 2001 901 Florsheim Dr
Libertyville, IL — 2,993  11,546  — 2,993  11,546  1,033  2018 1988 1500 South Milwaukee
Lichfield, UK — 1,382  30,324  2,989  1,512  33,183  5,751  2015 2012 Wissage Road
Lillington, NC — 500 16,451  184 500 16,635  3,211 2014 1999 2041 NC-210 N
Lillington, NC — 470 17,579  600 470 18,179  3,654  2014 2013 54 Red Mulberry Way
Lititz, P A — 1,200  13,836  — 1,200  13,836  1,929  2015 2016 80 West Millport Road
Livermore, CA — 4,100  24,996  79 4,100  25,075  4,544  2014 1974 35 Fenton Street
Livonia, MI — 985 13,555  — 985 13,555  1,304  2018 1999 32500 Seven Mile Road
Longwood, FL — 1,260  6,445  — 1,260  6,445  1,932  2011 2011 425 South Ronald Reagan Boulevard
Los Angeles, CA — — 11,430  1,058  — 12,488  4,196  2008 1971 330 North Hayworth Avenue
Louisbur g, KS — 280 4,320  44 280 4,364  721 2015 1996 202 Rogers St
Loxley , UK — 1,369  15,668  2,404  1,499  17,942  3,965  2013 2008 Loxley Road
Lutherville, MD — 1,100  19,786  1,744  1,100  21,530  6,259  2011 1988 515 Brightfield Road
Lynchbur g, VA — 340 16,114 66 340 16,180  3,403  2014 2013 189 Monica Blvd
Lynchbur g, VA — 2,904  3,696  — 2,904  3,696  345 2018 1978 2200 Landover Place
Lynnwood, WA — 2,302  5,632  — 2,302  5,632  533 2018 1987 3701 188th Street
Macungie, P A — — — 27,041  2,558  24,483  — 2017 2018 6043 Lower Macungie Road
Manalapan, NJ — 900 22,624  760 900 23,384  6,395  2011 2001 445 Route 9 South
Manassas, VA — 750 7,446  1,103  750 8,549  3,691  2003 1996 8341 Barrett Dr .
Mankato, MN — 1,460  32,104  300 1,460  32,404  5,119 2015 2006 100 Dublin Road
Mansfield, TX — — — 21,163  2,807  18,356  — 2017 2019 2500 N. Walnut Creek
Marietta, P A — 1,050  13,633  562 1,050  14,195  2,302  2015 1999 2760 Maytown Road
Marietta, OH — 1,149  9,373  — 1,149  9,373  867 2018 1977 5001 State Route 60
Marietta, GA — 2,406  12,229  — 2,406  12,229  1,106  2018 1980 4360 Johnson Ferry Place
Marion, IN — 720 9,604  — 720 9,604  2,750  2014 2012 614 W. 14th Street
Marion, IN — 990 9,190  824 990 10,014  3,048  2014 1976 505 N. Bradner Avenue
Marion, OH — 2,768  17,415  — 2,768  17,415  2,050  2018 2004 400 Barks Road West
Marlborough, UK — 2,677  6,822  897 2,930  7,466  1,426  2014 1999 The Common
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
Martinsville, VA — 349 — — 349 — — 2003 1900 Rolling Hills Rd. & US Hwy . 58
Matthews, NC — 560 4,738  152 560 4,890  2,362  2003 1998 2404 Plantation Center Dr .
McHenry , IL — 1,576  — — 1,576  — — 2006 1900 5200 Block of Bull Valley Road
McKinney , TX — 4,314  23,777  — 4,314  23,777  — 2021 2018 220 S Crutcher Crossing
McMurray , PA — 1,440  15,805  3,894  1,440  19,699  5,287  2010 2011 240 Cedar Hill Dr
Medicine Hat, AB — 932 5,566  551 1,010  6,039  1,246  2014 1999 65 Valleyview Drive SW
Mentor , OH — 1,827  9,938  — 1,827  9,938  931 2018 1985 8200 Mentor Hills Drive
Mequon, WI — 2,238  17,761  — 2,238  17,761  159 2021 2015 6751 West Mequon Road
Miamisbur g, OH — 786 3,232  — 786 3,232  427 2018 1983 450 Oak Ridge Boulevard
Middlebur g Heights, OH — 960 7,780  472 960 8,252  3,526  2004 1998 15435 Bagley Rd.
Middleton, WI — 420 4,006  600 420 4,606  2,254  2001 1991 6701 Stonefield Rd.
Midlothian, VA — 2,015  8,602  — 2,015  8,602  268 2021 2015 13800 Bon Secours Drive
Milton Keynes, UK — 1,826  18,654  1,930  1,998  20,412  3,643  2015 2007 Tunbridge Grove, Kents Hill
Minnetonka, MN — 2,080  24,360  2,935  2,080  27,295  7,688  2012 1999 500 Carlson Parkway
Mishawaka, IN — 740 10,698  — 740 10,698  3,337  2014 2013 60257 Bodnar Blvd
Moline, IL — 2,946  18,672  — 2,946  18,672  1,634  2018 1964 833 Sixteenth Avenue
Monroe, NC — 470 3,681  839 470 4,520  2,150  2003 2001 918 Fitzgerald St.
Monroe, NC — 310 4,799  922 310 5,721  2,720  2003 2000 919 Fitzgerald St.
Monroe, NC — 450 4,021  417 450 4,438  2,050  2003 1997 1316 Patterson Ave.
Monroe Township, NJ — 3,250  27,771  765 3,250  28,536  4,568  2015 1996 319 Forsgate Drive
Monroeville, P A — 1,216  12,749  — 1,216  12,749  1,420  2018 1997 120 Wyngate Drive
Monroeville, P A — 1,237  3,641  — 1,237  3,641  540 2018 1996 885 MacBeth Drive
Montgomeryville, P A — 1,176  9,824  — 1,176  9,824  967 2018 1989 640 Bethlehem Pike
Montville, NJ — 3,500  31,002  1,699  3,500  32,701  9,078  2011 1988 165 Changebridge Rd.
Moorestown, NJ — 4,143  23,902  — 4,143  23,902  5,363  2012 2014 250 Marter Avenue
Morehead City , NC — 200 3,104  2,039  200 5,143  2,594  1999 1999 107 Bryan St.
Moulton, UK — 1,695  12,510  1,886  1,691  14,400  1,726  2017 1995 Northampton Lane North
Mountainside, NJ — 3,097  7,807  — 3,097  7,807  741 2018 1988 1180 Route 22
Mt. Pleasant, MI — 1,863  6,467  — 1,863  6,467  399 2020 2013 2378 S. Lincoln Rd
Naperville, IL — 3,470  29,547  3,457  3,470  33,004  8,883  2011 2001 504 North River Road
Naples, FL — 1,222  10,639  — 1,222  10,639  1,057  2018 1998 6125 Rattlesnake Hammock Road
Naples, FL — 1,672  23,119 — 1,672  23,119 2,558  2018 1993 1000 Lely Palms Drive
Naples, FL — 1,854  12,398  — 1,854  12,398  1,109  2018 1987 3601 Lakewood Boulevard
Nashville, TN — 4,910  29,590  — 4,910  29,590  10,698  2008 2007 15 Burton Hills Boulevard
Needham, MA — 1,610  12,667  — 1,610  12,667  6,277  2002 1994 100 West St.
Needham, MA — 3,957  71,163  — 3,957  71,163  — 2021 2013 235 Gould St.
New Lenox, IL — 1,225  21,575  — 1,225  21,575  1,706  2019 2007 1023 South Cedar Rd
New Moston, UK — 1,480  4,378  553 1,620  4,791  1,111 2013 2010 90a Broadway
Newark, DE — 560 21,220  2,442  560 23,662  9,771  2004 1998 200 E. Village Rd.
Newcastle Under L yme, UK — 1,110 5,655  638 1,215  6,188  1,371  2013 2010 Hempstalls Lane
Newcastle-under -Lyme, UK — 1,125  5,537  628 1,231  6,059  1,158  2014 1999 Silverdale Road
Newport News, VA — 839 6,077  6 839 6,083  1,402  2018 1998 12997 Nettles Dr
Norman, OK — 55 1,484  — 55 1,484  1,031  1995 1995 1701 Alameda Dr .
Norman, OK — 1,480  33,330  604 1,480  33,934  8,152  2012 1985 800 Canadian Trails Drive
North Augusta, SC — 332 2,558  — 332 2,558  1,527  1999 1998 105 North Hills Dr .(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
Northampton, UK — 5,182  17,348  2,124  5,670  18,984  4,373  2013 2011 Cliftonville Road
Northampton, UK — 2,013  6,257  780 2,203  6,847  1,227  2014 2014 Cliftonville Road
Northbrook, IL — 1,298  13,337  — 1,298  13,337  1,222  2018 1999 3240 Milwaukee Avenue
Nottingham, UK — 1,628  6,263  744 1,782  6,853  1,214  2014 2014 172A  Nottingham Road
Nuneaton, UK — 3,325  8,983  1,159  3,638  9,829  2,180  2013 2011 132 Coventry Road
Nuthall, UK — 2,498  10,436  1,220  2,734  11,420  2,559  2013 2011 172 Nottingham Road
Oak Lawn, IL — 2,418  5,426  — 2,418  5,426  494 2018 1977 9401 South Kostner Avenue
Oak Lawn, IL — 3,876  7,985  — 3,876  7,985  754 2018 1960 6300 W 95th Street
Oakland, CA — 4,760  16,143  282 4,760  16,425  3,244  2014 2002 468 Perkins Street
Ocala, FL — 1,340  10,564  206 1,340  10,770  3,659  2008 2009 2650 SE 18TH Avenue
Oklahoma City , OK — 590 7,513  39 590 7,552  2,796  2007 2008 13200 S. May Ave
Oklahoma City , OK — 760 7,017  98 760 7,115 2,575  2007 2009 11320 N. Council Road
Oklahoma City , OK — — — 18,198  1,590  16,608  1,090  2014 2016 2800 SW  131st Street
Olathe, KS — 1,930  19,765  553 1,930  20,318  3,619  2016 2015 21250 W 151 Street
Ona, WV — 950 7,558  — 950 7,558  2,215  2015 2007 100 Weatherholt Drive
Oneonta, NY — 80 5,020  — 80 5,020  1,824  2007 1996 1846 County Highway 48
Orem, UT — 2,150  24,107  — 2,150  24,107  3,885  2015 2014 250 East Center Street
Osage City , KS — 50 1,700  142 50 1,842  375 2015 1996 1403 Laing St
Osawatomie, KS — 130 2,970  136 130 3,106  574 2015 2003 1520 Parker Ave
Ottawa, KS — 160 6,590  44 160 6,634  1,114 2015 2007 2250 S Elm St
Overland Park, KS — — — 31,146  3,730  27,416  9,289  2008 2009 12000 Lamar Avenue
Overland Park, KS — 4,500  29,105  7,295  4,500  36,400  11,615  2010 1988 6101 W 119th St
Overland Park, KS — 410 2,840  92 410 2,932  564 2015 2004 14430 Metcalf Ave
Overland Park, KS — 1,300  25,31 1 677 1,300  25,988  4,526  2016 2015 7600 Antioch Road
Owasso, OK — 215 1,380  — 215 1,380  898 1996 1996 12807 E. 86th Place N.
Palm Beach Gardens, FL — 2,082  6,622  — 2,082  6,622  692 2018 1991 11375 Prosperity Farms Road
Palm Coast, FL — 870 10,957  233 870 11,190  3,663  2008 2010 50 Town Ct.
Palm Harbor , FL — 2,490  23,901  — 2,490  23,901  692 2021 1996 2960 Tampa Rd
Palm Harbor , FL — 1,306  13,807  — 1,306  13,807  1,357  2018 1997 2895 Tampa Road
Palm Harbor , FL — 3,281  22,450  — 3,281  22,450  2,166  2018 1990 2851 Tampa Road
Palos Heights, IL — 1,225  12,453  — 1,225  12,453  1,121  2018 1999 7880 West College Drive
Palos Heights, IL — 3,431  28,803  — 3,431  28,803  2,506  2018 1987 7850 West College Drive
Palos Heights, IL — 2,590  7,644  — 2,590  7,644  691 2018 1996 11860 Southwest Hwy
Panama City Beach, FL — 900 6,402  734 900 7,136  1,715  2011 2005 6012 Magnolia Beach Road
Paola, KS — 190 5,610  59 190 5,669  972 2015 2000 601 N. East Street
Parma, OH — 960 12,718  — 960 12,718  1,227  2018 1998 9205 Sprague Road
Parma, OH — 1,833  10,314  — 1,833  10,314  1,120  2018 2006 9055 West Sprague Road
Paulsboro, NJ — 3,264  8,023  — 3,264  8,023  784 2018 1987 550 Jessup Road
Paw Paw , MI — 1,687  5,602  — 1,687  5,602  360 2020 2012 677 Hazen
Perrysbur g, OH — 1,456  5,431  — 1,456  5,431  535 2018 1973 10540 Fremont Pike
Perrysbur g, OH — 1,213  7,108  — 1,213  7,108  649 2018 1978 10542 Fremont Pike
Philadelphia, P A — 2,930  10,433  3,536  2,930  13,969  4,529  2011 1952 1526 Lombard Street
Pickerington, OH — 2,072  27,651  — 2,072  27,651  296 2021 2017 611 Windmiller Drive
Pikesville, MD — — 2,487  — — 2,487  213 2018 1998 8911 Reisterstown Road
Pikesville, MD — 4,247  8,379  — 4,247  8,379  854 2018 1996 8909 Reisterstown Road
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
Pinehurst, NC — 290 2,690  718 290 3,408  1,607  2003 1998 17 Regional Dr .
Piqua, OH — 204 1,885  — 204 1,885  1,158  1997 1997 1744 W. High St.
Piscataway , NJ — 3,100  33,351  — 3,100  33,351  4,257  2013 2017 10 Sterling Drive
Pittsbur gh, P A — 1,750  8,572  6,320  1,750  14,892  4,421  2005 1998 100 Knoedler Rd.
Pittsbur gh, P A — 603 11,354  — 603 11,354  1,089  2018 1998 1125 Perry Highway
Pittsbur gh, P A — 1,005  15,160  — 1,005  15,160  1,400  2018 1997 505 Weyman Road
Pittsbur gh, P A — 1,140  3,164  — 1,140  3,164  295 2018 1962 550 South Negley Avenue
Pittsbur gh, P A — 761 4,213  — 761 4,213  376 2018 1965 5609 Fifth Avenue
Pittsbur gh, P A — 1,480  9,712  — 1,480  9,712  1,013  2018 1986 1105 Perry Highway
Pittsbur gh, P A — 1,139  5,844  — 1,139  5,844  597 2018 1986 1848 Greentree Road
Plainview , NY — 3,990  11,969  1,713  3,990  13,682  4,203  2011 1963 150 Sunnyside Blvd
Plano, TX — 1,840  20,152  560 1,840  20,712  3,413  2016 2016 3325 W Plano Parkway
Poole, UK — 3,478  17,481  — 3,478  17,481  1,238  2019 2019 Kingsmill Road
Potomac, MD — 1,448  14,622  — 1,448  14,622  1,325  2018 1994 10718 Potomac Tennis Lane
Potomac, MD — 4,119 14,916  — 4,119 14,916  1,396  2018 1988 10714 Potomac Tennis Lane
Pottstown, P A — 984 4,563  — 984 4,563  458 2018 1907 724 North Charlotte Street
Powell, OH — 1,910  18,008  — 1,910  18,008  224 2021 2018 3872 Attucks Drive
Powell, OH — 2,300  26,198  — 2,300  26,198  281 2021 2017 10351 Sawmill Parkway
Prior Lake, MN 13,058  1,870  29,849  300 1,870  30,149  4,759  2015 2003 4685 Park Nicollet Avenue
Prospect, KY — 2,533  9,963  — 2,533  9,963  359 2021 2017 6901 Carslaw Ct.
Raleigh, NC — 7,598  88,870  900 7,598  89,770  11,050  2008 2017 4030 Cardinal at North Hills St
Raleigh, NC — 3,530  59,589  — 3,530  59,589  14,540  2012 2002 5301 Creedmoor Road
Raleigh, NC — 2,580  16,837  — 2,580  16,837  4,370  2012 1988 7900 Creedmoor Road
Red Bank, NJ — 1,050  21,275  1,158  1,050  22,433  6,077  2011 1997 One Hartford Dr .
Redondo Beach, CA — — 9,557  709 — 10,266  8,658  2011 1957 514 North Prospect Ave
Reidsville, NC — 170 3,830  1,473  170 5,303  2,375  2002 1998 2931 Vance St.
Richardson, TX — 1,468  12,975  — 1,468  12,975  1,223  2018 1999 410 Buckingham Road
Richmond, IN — 700 14,222  393 700 14,615  2,585  2016 2015 400 Industries Road
Richmond, VA — 3,261  17,974  — 3,261  17,974  1,610  2018 1990 1719 Bellevue Avenue
Richmond, VA — 1,046  8,233  — 1,046  8,233  789 2018 1966 2125 Hilliard Road
Roanoke, VA — 748 4,483  5 748 4,488  1,277  2018 1997 4355 Pheasant Ridge Rd
Rock Hill, SC — 1,825  7,676  — 1,825  7,676  327 2021 1995 1611 Constitution Blvd
Rockford, MI — 2,386  13,546  — 2,386  13,546  594 2020 2014 6070 Northland Dr
Rockville Centre, NY — 4,290  20,310  1,379  4,290  21,689  6,215  2011 2002 260 Maple Ave
Rockwall, TX — 2,220  17,650  230 2,220  17,880  2,969  2012 2014 720 E Ralph Hall Parkway
Romeoville, IL — 1,895  — — 1,895  — — 2006 1900 Grand Haven Circle
Roseville, MN — 2,140  24,679  100 2,140  24,779  3,960  2015 1989 2750 North Victoria Street
Rugeley , UK — 1,900  10,262  1,146  2,079  11,229  2,636  2013 2010 Horse Fair
Ruston, LA — 710 9,790  — 710 9,790  3,006  2011 1988 1401 Ezelle St
S Holland, IL — 1,423  8,907  — 1,423  8,907  859 2018 1997 2045 East 170th Street
Salem, OR — 449 5,171  1 449 5,172  3,071  1999 1998 1355 Boone Rd. S.E.
Salisbury , NC — 370 5,697  390 370 6,087  2,838  2003 1997 2201 Statesville Blvd.
San Angelo, TX — 260 8,800  425 260 9,225  4,022  2004 1997 2695 Valleyview Blvd.
San Angelo, TX — 1,050  24,689  1,361  1,050  26,050  5,066  2014 1999 6101 Grand Court Road
San Antonio, TX — 1,499  12,658  — 1,499  12,658  1,180  2018 2000 15290 Huebner Road(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
San Diego, CA — — 22,003  1,845  — 23,848  7,856  2008 1992 555 Washington St.
San Juan Capistrano, CA — 1,390  6,942  1,506  1,390  8,448  4,256  2000 2001 3031 1 Camino Capistrano
Sand Springs, OK — 910 19,654  238 910 19,892  4,895  2012 2002 4402 South 129th Avenue West
Sandusky , MI — 967 6,738  — 967 6,738  314 2020 2008 70 W. Argyle Ave
Sarasota, FL — 475 3,175  — 475 3,175  2,138  1996 1995 8450 McIntosh Rd.
Sarasota, FL — 4,101  11,204  — 4,101  11,204  1,679  2018 1993 5401 Sawyer Road
Sarasota, FL — 1,370  4,082  — 1,370  4,082  392 2018 1968 3250 12th Street
Sarasota, FL — 2,792  11,173  — 2,792  11,173  1,040  2018 1993 5511 Swift Road
Sarasota, FL — 443 8,892  — 443 8,892  915 2018 1998 5509 Swift Road
Scranton, P A — 320 12,144  3 320 12,147  2,422  2014 2013 2751 Boulevard Ave
Scranton, P A — 440 17,609  375 440 17,984  3,527  2014 2005 2741 Blvd. Ave
Seminole, FL — 1,165  8,975  — 1,165  8,975  894 2018 1998 9300 Antilles Drive
Seven Fields, P A — 484 4,663  59 484 4,722  2,805  1999 1999 500 Seven Fields Blvd.
Sewell, NJ — 3,127  14,090  — 3,127  14,090  1,494  2018 2010 378 Fries Mill Road
Shawnee, OK — 80 1,400  — 80 1,400  936 1996 1995 3947 Kickapoo
Silver Spring, MD — 1,469  10,392  — 1,469  10,392  969 2018 1995 2505 Musgrove Road
Silver Spring, MD — 4,678  11,679  — 4,678  11,679  1,161  2018 1990 2501 Musgrove Road
Silvis, IL — 880 16,420  139 880 16,559  5,024  2010 2005 1900 10th St.
Sinking Spring, P A — 1,393  19,842  — 1,393  19,842  1,829  2018 1982 3000 Windmill Road
Sittingbourne, UK — 1,357  6,539  744 1,485  7,155  1,313  2014 1997 200 London Road
Smithfield, NC — 290 5,680  844 290 6,524  2,767  2003 1998 830 Berkshire Rd.
Smithfield, NC — 360 8,216  179 360 8,395  1,640  2014 1999 250 Highway 210 West
South Bend, IN — 670 17,770  — 670 17,770  3,700  2014 2014 52565 State Road 933
South Point, OH — 1,135  9,387  — 1,135  9,387  867 2018 1984 7743 County Road 1
Southampton, UK — 1,519  16,041  1,027  1,608  16,979  1,946  2017 2013 Botley Road, Park Gate
Southbury , CT — 1,860  23,613  1,088  1,860  24,701  6,859  2011 2001 655 Main St
Spokane, WA — 2,649  11,699  — 2,649  11,699  1,092  2018 1985 6025 North Assembly Street
Springfield, IL — 990 13,378  1,085  990 14,463  2,951  2014 2013 3089 Old Jacksonville Road
St. Paul, MN — 2,100  33,019  100 2,100  33,119 5,245  2015 1996 750 Mississippi River
Stafford, UK — 2,009  8,238  599 2,126  8,720  1,232  2014 2016 Stone Road
Stamford, UK — 1,820  3,238  477 1,991  3,544  694 2014 1998 Priory Road
Statesville, NC — 150 1,447  377 150 1,824  866 2003 1990 2441 E. Broad St.
Statesville, NC — 310 6,183  693 310 6,876  2,960  2003 1996 2806 Peachtree Place
Statesville, NC — 140 3,627  53 140 3,680  1,763  2003 1999 2814 Peachtree Rd.
Staunton, VA — 899 6,391  6 899 6,397  1,513  2018 1999 1410 N Augusta St
Sterling Heights, MI — 790 10,784  — 790 10,784  1,013  2018 1996 11095 East Fourteen Mile Road
Sterling Heights, MI — 1,583  15,634  — 1,583  15,634  1,491  2018 2013 38200 Schoenherr Road
Stillwater , OK — 80 1,400  — 80 1,400  937 1995 1995 1616 McElroy Rd.
Stratford-upon-A von, UK — 790 14,508  1,442  864 15,876  2,749  2015 2012 Scholars Lane
Stroudsbur g, PA — 340 16,313  56 340 16,369  3,666  2014 2011 370 Whitestone Corner Road
Sunbury , PA — 695 7,244  — 695 7,244  653 2018 1981 800 Court Street Circle
Sunnyvale, CA — 4,946  22,123  — 4,946  22,123  1,986  2018 1990 1150 Tilton Drive
Superior , WI — 1,020  13,735  6,159  1,020  19,894  4,553  2009 2010 1915 North 34th Street
Tacoma, WA — 2,522  8,573  — 2,522  8,573  787 2018 1984 5601 South Orchard Southtreet
Tallahassee, FL — 1,264  9,652  — 1,264  9,652  337 2021 1999 100 John Knox Rd
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
Tampa, FL — 1,315  6,911 — 1,315  6,911 749 2018 1999 14950 Casey Road
Telford, UK — 1,048  11,250  — 1,048  11,250  61 2021 2021 Shifnal Road
Terre Haute, IN — 1,370  18,016  — 1,370  18,016  3,517  2015 2015 395 8th Avenue
Texarkana, TX — 192 1,403  — 192 1,403  912 1996 1996 4204 Moores Lane
The Villages, FL — 1,035  7,446  — 1,035  7,446  1,776  2013 2014 2450 Parr Drive
Thomasville, GA — 530 12,520  1,347  530 13,867  3,129  2011 2006 423 Covington Avenue
Thousand Oaks, CA — 3,425  19,573  — 3,425  19,573  643 2019 2021 980 Warwick Avenue
Three Rivers, MI — 1,255  2,760  — 1,255  2,760  340 2018 1976 517 South Erie Southtreet
Tomball, TX — 1,050  13,300  840 1,050  14,140  3,904  2011 2001 1221 Graham Dr
Toms River , NJ — 3,466  23,31 1 — 3,466  23,31 1 2,651  2019 2006 1657 Silverton Rd
Tonganoxie, KS — 310 3,690  76 310 3,766  712 2015 2009 120 W 8th St
Topeka, KS — 260 12,712  101 260 12,813  3,267  2012 2011 1931 Southwest Arvonia Place
Towson, MD — 1,715  13,111 — 1,715  13,111 1,221  2018 2000 8101 Bellona Avenue
Towson, MD — 3,100  6,465  — 3,100  6,465  576 2018 1960 509 East Joppa Road
Towson, MD — 4,527  3,126  — 4,527  3,126  352 2018 1970 7001 North Charles Street
Troy, OH — 200 2,000  4,254  200 6,254  2,681  1997 1997 81 S. Stanfield Rd.
Troy, MI — 1,381  24,445  — 1,381  24,445  2,178  2018 2006 925 West South Boulevard
Trumbull, CT — 4,440  43,384  570 4,440  43,954  12,332  2011 2001 6949 Main Street
Tulsa, OK — 1,100  27,007  2,233  1,100  29,240  4,029  2015 2017 18001 East 51st Street
Tulsa, OK — 890 9,410  — 890 9,410  1,101  2017 2009 7210 South Yale Avenue
Tulsa, OK — 1,390  7,110 1,102  1,390  8,212  2,819  2010 1998 7220 S. Yale Ave.
Tulsa, OK — 1,320  10,087  70 1,320  10,157  2,713  2011 2012 7902 South Mingo Road East
Tulsa, OK 12,733  1,752  28,421  94 1,752  28,515  3,639  2017 2014 701 W 71st Street South
Tustin, CA — 840 15,299  537 840 15,836  4,910  2011 1965 240 East 3rd St
Twinsbur g, OH — 1,446  5,919  — 1,446  5,919  610 2018 2014 8551 Darrow Road
Union, KY — — — 33,927  2,242  31,685  1,524  2018 2020 9255 US-42
Union, SC — 1,932  2,372  — 1,932  2,372  341 2018 1981 709 Rice Avenue
Valparaiso, IN — 112 2,558  — 112 2,558  1,386  2001 1998 2601 Valparaiso St.
Valparaiso, IN — 108 2,962  — 108 2,962  1,589  2001 1999 2501 Valparaiso St.
Vancouver , WA — 2,503  28,393  — 2,503  28,393  2,507  2018 2011 2811 N.E. 139th Street
Venice, FL — 1,150  10,674  215 1,150  10,889  3,629  2008 2009 1600 Center Rd.
Venice, FL — 2,246  10,094  — 2,246  10,094  1,001  2018 1997 1450 East Venice Avenue
Vero Beach, FL — 263 3,187  — 263 3,187  1,702  2001 1999 420 4th Ct.
Vero Beach, FL — 297 3,263  — 297 3,263  1,750  2001 1996 410 4th Ct.
Vero Beach, FL — 3,580  31,735  — 3,580  31,735  956 2021 2005 910 Regency Square
Vero Beach, FL — 1,256  11,204  — 1,256  11,204  384 2021 2007 4150 Indian River Blvd
Virginia Beach, VA — 1,540  22,593  204 1,540  22,797  4,568  2014 1993 5520 Indian River Rd
Virginia Beach, VA — 2,004  19,634  — 2,004  19,634  263 2021 2008 1853 Old Donation Parkway
Voorhees, NJ — 3,100  25,950  26 3,100  25,976  6,764  2011 2013 113 South Route 73
Voorhees, NJ — 2,193  6,990  — 2,193  6,990  722 2018 2006 1086 Dumont Circle
W Palm Beach, FL — 1,175  8,294  — 1,175  8,294  839 2018 1996 2330 Village Boulevard
W Palm Beach, FL — 1,921  5,731  — 1,921  5,731  560 2018 1996 2300 Village Boulevard
Wabash, IN — 670 14,588  1 670 14,589  3,157  2014 2013 20 John Kissinger Drive
Waconia, MN — 890 14,726  4,495  890 19,221  5,098  2011 2005 500 Cherry Street
Wake Forest, NC — 200 3,003  2,621  200 5,624  2,642  1998 1999 611 S. Brooks St.(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
Wallingford, P A — 1,356  6,487  — 1,356  6,487  682 2018 1930 115 South Providence Road
Walnut Creek, CA — 4,358  18,407  — 4,358  18,407  1,696  2018 1997 1975 Tice Valley Boulevard
Walnut Creek, CA — 5,394  39,084  — 5,394  39,084  3,423  2018 1990 1226 Rossmoor Parkway
Walsall, UK — 1,184  8,562  919 1,296  9,369  1,718  2015 2015 Little Aston Road
Wamego, KS — 40 2,510  57 40 2,567  447 2015 1996 1607 4th St
Wareham, MA — 875 7,906  — 875 7,906  6,281  2002 1989 50 Indian Neck Rd.
Warren, NJ — 2,000  30,810  1,337  2,000  32,147  8,691  2011 1999 274 King Geor ge Rd
Waterloo, IA — 605 3,030  — 605 3,030  308 2018 1964 201 West Ridgeway Avenue
Wayne, NJ — 1,427  15,674  — 1,427  15,674  1,835  2018 1998 800 Hambur g Turnpike
Wellingborough, UK — 1,480  5,724  679 1,620  6,263  1,273  2015 2015 159 Northampton
West Bend, WI — 620 17,790  38 620 17,828  4,729  2010 2011 2130 Continental Dr
West Des Moines, IA — 828 5,103  — 828 5,103  525 2018 2006 5010 Grand Ridge Drive
West Milford, NJ — 1,960  24,614  — 1,960  24,614  2,140  2019 2000 197 Cahill Cross Road
West Orange, NJ — 1,347  19,389  — 1,347  19,389  2,126  2018 1998 510 Prospect Avenue
West Reading, P A — 890 12,118 — 890 12,118 1,057  2018 1975 425 Buttonwood Street
Westerville, OH — 740 8,287  4,146  740 12,433  11,082  1998 2001 690 Cooper Rd.
Westerville, OH — — — 26,086  2,566  23,520  980 2017 2020 702 Polaris Parkway
Westerville, OH — 1,420  5,371  — 1,420  5,371  521 2018 1982 1060 Eastwind Drive
Westerville, OH — 1,582  10,279  — 1,582  10,279  1,014  2018 1980 215 Huber Village Boulevard
Westfield, IN — 890 15,964  1 890 15,965  3,424  2014 2013 937 E. 186th Street
Westlake, OH — 855 11,963  — 855 11,963  1,136  2018 1997 28400 Center Ridge Road
Weston Super Mare, UK — 2,517  7,054  902 2,754  7,719  1,721  2013 2011 141b Milton Road
Wheaton, MD — 3,864  3,788  — 3,864  3,788  382 2018 1961 11901 Geor gia Avenue
Whippany , NJ — 1,571  14,977  — 1,571  14,977  1,430  2018 2000 18 Eden Lane
Whitehall, MI — 1,645  6,789  — 1,645  6,789  375 2020 2012 6827 Whitehall Rd
Wichita, KS — 260 2,240  129 260 2,369  416 2015 1992 900 N Bayshore Dr
Wichita, KS — 1,400  11,000  456 1,400  11,456  6,185  2006 1997 505 North Maize Road
Wichita, KS 12,038  630 19,747  315 630 20,062  4,867  2012 2009 2050 North Webb Road
Wichita, KS — 900 10,134  123 900 10,257  2,791  2011 2012 10600 E 13th Street North
Wichita, KS — 860 8,873  — 860 8,873  2,589  2011 2012 10604 E 13th Street North
Williamsbur g, VA — 1,187  5,728  6 1,187  5,734  1,416  2018 2000 1811 Jamestown Rd
Willoughby , OH — 1,774  8,653  — 1,774  8,653  835 2018 1974 37603 Euclid Avenue
Wilmington, NC — 210 2,991  — 210 2,991  1,771  1999 1999 3501 Converse Dr .
Wilmington, NC — 400 15,355  207 400 15,562  3,212  2014 2012 3828 Independence Blvd
Wilmington, DE — 1,376  13,450  — 1,376  13,450  1,259  2018 1998 700 1/2 Foulk Road
Wilmington, DE — 2,843  36,948  — 2,843  36,948  3,324  2018 1988 5651 Limestone Road
Wilmington, DE — 2,266  9,500  — 2,266  9,500  913 2018 1984 700 Foulk Road
Windsor , VA — 1,148  6,514  7 1,148  6,521  1,599  2018 1999 23352 Courthouse Hwy
Winston-Salem, NC — 360 2,514  595 360 3,109  1,475  2003 1996 2980 Reynolda Rd.
Winter Garden, FL — 1,110 7,937  — 1,110 7,937  2,091  2012 2013 720 Roper Road
Winter Springs, FL — 1,152  14,822  — 1,152  14,822  1,372  2018 1999 1057 Willa Springs Drive
Witherwack, UK — 944 6,915  741 1,033  7,567  1,688  2013 2009 Whitchurch Road
Wolverhampton, UK — 1,573  6,678  778 1,721  7,308  1,645  2013 2011 378 Prestonwood Road
Woodbury , MN — 1,317  20,935  298 1,317  21,233  2,886  2017 2015 2195 Century Avenue South
Woodstock, VA — 594 5,108  5 594 5,113 1,105  2018 2001 803 S Main St
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
Worcester , MA — 3,500  54,099  4 3,500  54,103  17,379  2007 2009 101 Barry Road
Yardley , PA — 773 14,914  — 773 14,914  1,460  2018 1995 493 Stony Hill Road
Yardley , PA — 1,561  9,439  — 1,561  9,439  1,099  2018 1990 1480 Oxford Valley Road
York, UK — 2,961  8,266  1,058  3,240  9,045  1,736  2014 2006 Rosetta Way, Boroughbridge Road
York, P A — 976 9,354  — 976 9,354  890 2018 1972 200 Pauline Drive
York, P A — 1,050  4,210  — 1,050  4,210  474 2018 1983 2400 Kingston Court
York, P A — 1,121  7,584  — 1,121  7,584  771 2018 1979 1770 Barley Road
Youngsville, NC — 380 10,689  115 380 10,804  2,177  2014 2013 100 Sunset Drive
Zephyrhills, FL — 2,131  6,669  — 2,131  6,669  712 2018 1987 38220 Henry Drive
Zionsville, IN — 1,610  22,400  1,790  1,610  24,190  7,039  2010 2009 11755 N Michigan Rd
Zionsville, IN — 2,162  33,238  — 2,162  33,238  721 2021 2018 6800 Central Blvd
Triple-net Total $ 72,536  $ 911,678  $ 7,485,316  $ 592,881  $ 955,620  $ 8,034,255  $ 1,459,518  (1)
(1)
120
Welltower Inc.  
Schedule III  
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  
December 31, 2021  
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Outpatient Medical:         
Addison, IL $ 5,130  $ 102 $ 19,060  $ — $ 102 $ 19,060  $ 1,749  2018 2012 303 West Lake Street
Agawam, MA — 1,072  4,544  624 1,072  5,168  591 2019 2005 230-232 Main Street
Allen, TX — 726 14,196  1,661  726 15,857  6,466  2012 2006 1105 N Central Expressway
Alpharetta, GA — — — 20,406  773 19,633  8,562  2011 1993 3400-A  Old Milton Parkway
Alpharetta, GA — — — 38,575  1,769  36,806  17,816  2011 1999 3400-C Old Milton Parkway
Alpharetta, GA — 476 13,378  — 476 13,378  4,593  2011 2003 11975 Morris Road
Alpharetta, GA — 548 17,103  1,112 548 18,215  7,735  2011 2007 3300 Old Milton Parkway
Alpharetta, GA — 1,862  — — 1,862  — — 2011 1900 940 North Point Parkway
Ann Arbor , MI — 4,234  27,623  2,462  4,234  30,085  — 2021 2016 4350 Jackson Road
Ann Arbor , MI — 4,044  14,610  1,305  4,044  15,915  — 2021 2014 4200 Whitehall Dr .
Appleton, WI 6,728  1,881  7,540  1,333  1,881  8,873  797 2019 2004 5330 W Michael Drive
Appleton, WI 11,848  3,782  18,003  2,452  3,782  20,455  1,777  2019 2005 2323 N Casaloma Drive
Arcadia, CA — — — 34,254  5,618  28,636  13,948  2006 1984 301 W. Huntington Drive
Arlington, TX — 82 18,243  743 82 18,986  5,827  2012 2012 902 W. Randol Mill Road
Arlington Heights, IL — 1,233  2,826  623 1,233  3,449  508 2020 1997 1632 W. Central Road
Atlanta, GA — — — 28,778  2,172  26,606  10,728  2012 1984 975 Johnson Ferry Road
Atlanta, GA — — — 45,361  — 45,361  16,567  2012 2006 5670 Peachtree-Dunwoody Road
Atlanta, GA — 4,931  18,720  7,972  5,387  26,236  14,420  2006 1991 755 Mt. Vernon Hwy .
Austin, TX — 1,066  10,112 — 1,066  10,112 1,781  2017 2017 5301-B Davis Lane
Austin, TX — 1,688  5,865  919 1,688  6,784  946 2019 2015 5301-A  Davis Lane
Baltimore, MD — 4,490  28,667  2,577  4,490  31,244  2,338  2019 2014 1420 Key Highway
Bellevue, NE — — — 16,691  — 16,691  6,861  2010 2010 2510 Bellevue Medical Center Drive
Bend, OR — 16,516  28,429  1,912  16,516  30,341  3,666  2019 2001 1501 Northeast Medical Center Drive
Berkeley Heights, NJ — 49,555  79,091  13,760  49,555  92,851  7,797  2019 1978 1 Diamond Hill Road
Beverly Hills, CA — 20,766  40,730  3,712  20,766  44,442  10,489  2015 1946 9675 Brighton Way
Beverly Hills, CA — 18,863  1,192  492 18,885  1,662  922 2015 1955 415 North Bedford
Beverly Hills, CA — 19,863  31,690  2,338  19,863  34,028  7,624  2015 1946 416 North Bedford
Beverly Hills, CA 33,729  32,603  28,639  1,617  32,603  30,256  7,967  2015 1950 435 North Bedford
Beverly Hills, CA 78,271  52,772  87,366  2,567  52,772  89,933  18,817  2015 1989 436 North Bedford
Boca Raton, FL — 109 34,002  4,754  214 38,651  17,356  2006 1995 9970 S. Central Park Blvd.
Boca Raton, FL — 31 12,312  703 251 12,795  4,907  2012 1993 9960 S. Central Park Boulevard
Bridgeton, MO — — — 22,840  450 22,390  9,415  2010 2006 12266 DePaul Dr
Bridgeton, MO — 1,701  6,228  302 1,501  6,730  1,736  2017 2008 3440 De Paul Ln.
Brooklyn, NY — — 101,887  — — 101,887  1,664  2015 2021 NE Corner of 9th & 49th Street
Burleson, TX — — — 14,078  10 14,068  5,581  2011 2007 12001 South Freeway
Burnsville, MN — — — 33,992  — 33,992  11,387  2013 2014 14101 Fairview Dr
Canton, MI — 1,168  13,399  1,162  1,168  14,561  — 2021 2004 49650 Cherry Hill Road
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description Encumbrances LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Outpatient Medical:         
Cape Coral, FL — 2,273  10,727  1,442  2,273  12,169  636 2021 1995 2721 Del Prado Blvd
Cary , NC — 2,816  10,645  1,239  2,816  11,884  2,095  2019 2007 540 Waverly Place
Cedar Park, TX — — — 29,938  132 29,806  6,827  2017 2014 1401 Medical Parkway , Building 2
Chapel Hill, NC — 488 2,242  149 488 2,391  268 2019 2010 100 Perkins Drive
Chapel Hill, NC 4,936  1,970  8,874  84 1,970  8,958  1,233  2018 2007 6011 Farrington Road
Chapel Hill, NC 4,936  1,970  8,925  5 1,970  8,930  1,385  2018 2007 6013 Farrington Road
Chapel Hill, NC 14,030  5,681  25,035  17 5,681  25,052  3,579  2018 2006 2226 North Carolina Highway 54
Charlotte, NC — 10 23,265  1,939  10 25,204  4,156  2019 1971 1900 Randolph Road
Charlotte, NC — 30 59,039  6,321  30 65,360  9,591  2019 1994 1918 Randolph Road
Charlotte, NC — 40 40,533  3,297  40 43,830  6,315  2019 1989 1718 East Fourth Street
Charlotte, NC — 1,746  8,378  1,278  1,746  9,656  1,742  2019 1998 309 South Sharon Amity Road
Charlotte, NC — 15,678  74,500  3,334  15,678  77,834  2,158  2018 2021 1237 Harding Place
Charlotte, NC — — 22,949  — — 22,949  385 2021 2021 830 Kenilworth Avenue
Charlotte, NC — 11,783  44,717  1,523  11,783  46,240  1,134  2018 2021 1225 Harding Place
Chicopee, MA — 6,078  13,793  2,151  6,078  15,944  1,949  2019 2005 444 Montgomery Street
Chula Vista, CA — 1,045  21,387  1,798  1,045  23,185  3,151  2019 1973 480 4th Avenue
Chula Vista, CA — 826 6,106  709 826 6,815  903 2019 1985 450 4th Avenue
Chula Vista, CA — 1,114 14,902  558 1,114 15,460  1,573  2019 2008 971 Lane Ave
Chula Vista, CA — 1,075  6,828  338 1,075  7,166  737 2019 2006 959 Lane Ave
Cincinnati, OH — 537 9,719  590 537 10,309  1,387  2019 2001 4850 Red Bank Expressway
Cincinnati, OH — — 17,880  287 2 18,165  5,646  2012 2013 3301 Mercy Health Boulevard
Clarkson Valley , MO — — — 35,592  — 35,592  17,076  2009 2010 15945 Clayton Rd
Clear Lake, TX — — 13,882  20 2,319  11,583  2,126  2013 2014 1010 South Ponds Drive
Clinton, MI — 1,138  616 208 1,138  824 — 2021 1987 11775 Tecumseh-Clinton Hwy .
Clyde, NC — 1,433  21,099  967 1,433  22,066  1,772  2019 2012 581 Leroy Geor ge Drive
College Station, TX — 1,111 7,456  — 1,111 7,456  31 2021 2021 1204 Copperfield Pkwy
Columbia, MO — 438 12,426  733 438 13,159  1,961  2019 1994 1601 E. Broadway
Columbia, MO — 488 15,702  1,218  488 16,920  2,455  2019 1999 1605 E. Broadway
Columbia, MO — 199 22,289  1,366  199 23,655  2,971  2019 2007 1705 E. Broadway
Columbia, MD — 23 33,885  4,142  9,353  28,697  11,740  2015 1982 5450 & 5500 Knoll N Dr .
Columbia, MD — 2,333  19,232  1,878  2,333  21,110 7,589  2012 2002 10700 Charter Drive
Columbia, MD — 12,159  72,636  782 12,159  73,418  9,125  2018 2009 10710 Charter Drive
Coon Rapids, MN — — 26,679  1,853  — 28,532  8,923  2013 2014 11850 Blackfoot Street NW
Costa Mesa, CA 19,523  22,033  24,332  1,367  22,033  25,699  6,919  2017 2007 1640 Newport Boulevard
Dade City , FL — 1,211 5,511 — 1,211 5,511 2,047  2011 1998 13413 US Hwy 301
Dallas, TX — 122 15,418  10 122 15,428  3,529  2013 2014 8196 Walnut Hill Lane
Dallas, TX — 6,086  18,007  4,480  6,542  22,031  3,690  2018 2010 10740 North Central Expressway
Danbury , CT — 2,382  23,204  2,199  2,382  25,403  355 2021 2019 40 Old Ridgebury Rd
Danbury , CT — 914 9,612  1,232  914 10,844  155 2021 2010 226 White St
Danbury , CT — 4,209  20,102  2,638  4,209  22,740  417 2021 2017 2 Riverview Dr
Deerfield Beach, FL — — — 11,097  2,540  8,557  4,102  2011 2001 1192 East Newport Center Drive
Delray Beach, FL — 1,882  34,767  2,757  2,449  36,957  20,488  2006 1985 5130-5150 Linton Blvd.
Dunkirk, MD — 259 2,263  291 259 2,554  488 2019 1997 10845 Town Center Blvd(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description Encumbrances LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Outpatient Medical:         
Durham, NC — 1,403  23,788  1,377  1,403  25,165  2,434  2019 2000 120 William Penn Plaza
Durham, NC — 1,751  42,391  2,037  1,751  44,428  3,532  2019 2004 3916 Ben Fanklin Boulevard
El Paso, TX — — — 19,435  677 18,758  9,854  2006 1997 2400 Trawood Dr .
Elgin, IL — 1,634  9,443  1,423  1,634  10,866  1,174  2020 2004 745 Fletcher Drive
Elmhurst, IL — 41 39,562  374 41 39,936  4,878  2018 2011 133 E Brush Hill Road
Elyria, OH — 3,263  27,163  1,056  3,263  28,219  2,889  2019 2008 303 Chestnut Commons Drive
Escondido, CA — 2,278  19,724  1,245  2,278  20,969  2,362  2019 1994 225 East 2nd Avenue
Everett, WA — — — 31,004  4,842  26,162  10,724  2010 2011 13020 Meridian Ave. S.
Fenton, MO — 958 27,485  387 958 27,872  10,027  2013 2009 1011 Bowles Avenue
Fenton, MO — — — 14,478  369 14,109  4,444  2013 2009 1055 Bowles Avenue
Florham Park, NJ — 8,578  61,779  — 8,578  61,779  7,811 2017 2017 150 Park Avenue
Flower Mound, TX — 737 9,276  552 737 9,828  2,715  2015 2014 2560 Central Park Avenue
Flower Mound, TX — 4,164  27,027  1,988  4,164  29,015  8,581  2014 2012 4370 Medical Arts Drive
Flower Mound, TX — 4,620  — — 4,620  — — 2014 1900 Medical Arts Drive
Fort Washington, P A — 2,015  16,104  2,435  2,015  18,539  1,579  2020 1980 467 Pennsylvania Avenue
Fort Worth, TX — 401 6,099  2,278  2,805  5,973  2,092  2014 2007 7200 Oakmont Boulevard
Fort Worth, TX — 462 26,020  702 462 26,722  8,127  2012 2012 10840 Texas Health Trail
Fort Worth, TX — 1,790  4,522  560 1,790  5,082  — 2021 1983 2001 West Rosedale Street
Frederick, MD — 1,065  6,817  613 1,065  7,430  1,175  2019 1979 194 Thomas Johnson Drive
Frederick, MD — 1,930  18,31 1 1,400  1,930  19,71 1 2,532  2019 2006 45 Thomas Johnson Drive
Fresno, CA — 1,497  11,896  902 1,497  12,798  1,201  2019 2004 1105 E Spruce Ave
Gardendale, AL — 1,150  8,162  335 1,150  8,497  1,271  2018 2005 2217 Decatur Highway
Garland, TX — 4,952  30,151  2,567  4,952  32,718  3,902  2019 2018 7217 Telecome Parkway
Gastonia, NC — 569 1,638  55 569 1,693  203 2019 2000 934 Cox Road
Gig Harbor , WA — 80 30,810  1,314  80 32,124  7,162  2010 2009 11511 Canterwood Blvd. NW
Glendale, CA — 70 41,837  2,683  70 44,520  4,473  2019 2008 1500 E Chevy Chase Drive
Gloucester , VA — 2,128  9,169  62 2,128  9,231  1,425  2018 2008 5659 Parkway Drive
Grand Prairie, TX — 981 6,086  318 981 6,404  2,968  2012 2009 2740 N State Hwy 360
Grapevine, TX — — — 10,721  2,081  8,640  2,806  2014 2002 2040 W State Hwy 1 14
Grapevine, TX — — — 22,877  3,365  19,512  6,156  2014 2002 2020 W State Hwy 1 14
Greenville, SC — 1,790  4,421  1,446  1,790  5,867  1,800  2019 1987 10 Enterprise Boulevard
Harrisbur g, NC — 1,347  2,652  511 1,347  3,163  628 2019 2012 9550 Rocky River Road
Hattiesbur g, MS 17,231  3,155  31,155  3,581  3,155  34,736  2,944  2019 2012 3688 Veterans Memorial Drive
Haymarket, VA — 1,250  26,621  2,772  1,250  29,393  3,170  2019 2008 15195 Heathcote Blvd
Henderson, NV 1 2,587  5,376  279 2,587  5,655  621 2019 2002 2825 Siena Heights Drive
Henderson, NV — 7,372  22,172  1,908  7,372  24,080  3,101  2019 2005 2845 Siena Heights Drive
Henderson, NV — 5,492  18,448  1,131  5,492  19,579  2,088  2019 2005 2865 Siena Heights Drive
Highland, IL — — 8,834  50 — 8,884  2,500  2012 2013 12860 Troxler Avenue
Hopewell Junction, NY — 2,164  4,659  692 2,164  5,351  461 2019 1999 10 Cranberry Drive
Hopewell Junction, NY — 2,316  4,525  812 2,316  5,337  418 2019 2015 1955 NY -52
Houston, TX — — — 21,373  2,988  18,385  958 2016 2019 13105 Wortham Center Drive
Houston, TX — 5,837  33,128  1,518  5,837  34,646  15,141  2012 2005 15655 Cypress Woods Medical Dr .
Houston, TX — — — 17,133  3,688  13,445  5,071  2012 2007 10701 Vintage Preserve Parkway
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Outpatient Medical:         
Houston, TX — — — 84,300  12,815  71,485  22,476  2012 1998 2727 W Holcombe Boulevard
Houston, TX — 377 13,726  680 377 14,406  2,106  2018 2011 20207 Chasewood Park Drive
Houston, TX — 2,351  7,980  900 2,351  8,880  510 2020 2013 11476 Space Center Blvd
Houston, TX — 9,943  — — 9,943  — 11 2011 1900 F.M. 1960 & Northgate Forest Dr .
Howell, MI — 2,000  13,928  588 2,000  14,516  2,653  2016 2017 1225 South Latson Road
Howell, MI — 579 4,109  319 579 4,428  — 2021 2019 202 W. Highland Rd.
Humble, TX — — 9,941  — 1,702  8,239  1,476  2013 2014 8233 N. Sam Houston Parkway E.
Huntersville, NC — — 41,055  2,916  — 43,971  4,817  2019 2004 10030 Gilead Road
Independence, MO — 762 3,480  380 762 3,860  330 2020 2007 19401 East 37th Terrace Court South
Jackson, MI — — — 17,990  668 17,322  5,964  2013 2009 1201 E Michigan Avenue
Jacksonville, FL — 3,562  24,379  3,141  3,562  27,520  3,559  2019 2006 10475 Centurion Parkway North
Jacksonville, FL — 1,113 10,970  1,051  1,113 12,021  1,130  2020 2000 5742 Booth Road
Jefferson City , TN — 109 16,035  851 109 16,886  1,975  2019 2001 120 Hospital Drive
Jonesboro, GA — 567 15,146  1,267  567 16,413  2,133  2019 2009 7813 Spivey Station Boulevard
Jonesboro, GA — 627 15,844  805 627 16,649  2,006  2019 2007 7823 Spivey Station Boulevard
Jupiter , FL — — — 18,721  2,639  16,082  7,778  2006 2001 550 Heritage Dr .
Jupiter , FL — — — 10,050  3,036  7,014  3,836  2007 2004 600 Heritage Dr .
Kalamazoo, MI — — 14,746  — — 14,746  190 2020 2021 2520 Robert Jones Way
Katy , TX — — 11,219  — — 11,219  421 2019 2020 0 Grand Parkway & Morton Ranch Road
Katy , TX — 2,025  7,557  1,255  2,025  8,812  680 2020 2016 21502 Merchants Way
Katy , TX — 3,699  12,701  2,305  3,699  15,006  1,880  2020 2006 1331 West Grand Parkway North
Knoxville, TN — 199 43,771  2,221  199 45,992  4,423  2019 2012 1926 Alcoa Highway
La Jolla, CA — 12,855  32,658  2,022  12,869  34,666  9,804  2015 1989 4150 Regents Park Row
La Jolla, CA — 9,425  26,525  1,027  9,440  27,537  7,044  2015 1988 4120 & 4130 La Jolla Village Drive
Lacey , WA 6,207  1,751  10,345  — 1,751  10,345  1,591  2018 1971 2555 Marvin Road Northeast
Lake St Louis, MO — — — 14,826  240 14,586  6,243  2010 2008 400 Medical Dr
Lakeway , TX — — — 2,801  2,801  — — 2007 1900 Lohmans Crossing Road
Las Vegas, NV — — — 5,547  433 5,114 2,360  2007 1997 1776 E. Warm Springs Rd.
Las Vegas, NV — — — 9,643  2,319  7,324  3,372  2006 1991 2870 S. Maryland Pkwy .
Las Vegas, NV — 4,180  20,064  2,913  4,180  22,977  1,722  2020 2017 9880 West Flamingo Road
Las Vegas, NV — 5,864  22,502  3,070  5,864  25,572  1,796  2020 2017 4980 West Sahara Ave
Little Rock, AR — 3,021  20,095  1,907  3,021  22,002  2,503  2019 2014 6119 Midtown Avenue
Los Alamitos, CA — — — 19,276  39 19,237  8,072  2007 2003 3771 Katella Ave.
Lowell, MA — 3,016  9,663  510 3,016  10,173  991 2011 2020 839 Merrimack Street
Loxahatchee, FL — — — 7,964  1,719  6,245  3,271  2006 1997 12977 Southern Blvd.
Loxahatchee, FL — — — 9,437  1,440  7,997  4,097  2006 1993 12989 Southern Blvd.
Loxahatchee, FL — — — 8,284  1,650  6,634  3,401  2006 1994 12983 Southern Blvd.
Lubbock, TX 41,449  2,286  66,022  6,917  2,286  72,939  4,914  2019 2006 4515 Marsha Sharp Freeway
Lynbrook, NY 25,936  10,028  37,319  1,657  10,028  38,976  4,827  2018 1962 444 Merrick Road
Madison, WI — 3,670  24,615  3,816  3,670  28,431  2,745  2019 2012 1102 South Park Street
Margate, FL — 219 8,743  555 219 9,298  1,365  2019 2004 2960 N. State Rd 7
Marietta, GA — 2,682  20,053  1,738  2,703  21,770  6,001  2016 2016 4800 Olde Towne Parkway
Mars, P A — 1,925  8,307  1,412  1,925  9,719  998 2020 2006 6998 Crider Road(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Outpatient Medical:         
Matthews, NC — 10 32,108  1,611 10 33,719  3,918  2019 1994 1450 Matthews Township Parkway
Menasha, WI — — — 18,500  1,345  17,155  4,355  2016 1994 1550 Midway Place
Merced, CA — — — 14,904  — 14,904  6,326  2009 2010 315 Mercy Ave.
Meridian, ID — 3,206  23,619  3,506  3,206  27,125  3,175  2019 2009 3277 E Louise Drive
Mesa, AZ — 3,158  5,588  1,122  3,158  6,710  457 2020 2016 1910 S. Gilbert Road
Mesa, AZ — 3,889  5,816  1,257  3,889  7,073  518 2020 2016 1833 N. Power Road
Milan, MI — 1,216  6,082  405 1,216  6,487  — 2021 2008 870 E. Arkona Rd
Mission Hills, CA 22,245  — 42,276  7,119 4,791  44,604  13,679  2014 1986 11550 Indian Hills Road
Missouri City , TX — 1,360  7,143  — 1,360  7,143  953 2015 2016 7010 Highway 6
Mobile, AL 15,123  2,759  25,180  14 2,759  25,194  2,971  2018 2003 6144 Airport Boulevard
Monroeville, P A — 1,544  10,012  1,087  1,544  11,099  1,457  2020 1979 2550 Mosside Blvd
Moorestown, NJ — 6 50,896  1,030  362 51,570  19,095  2011 2012 401 Young Avenue
Mount Juliet, TN — — — 15,131  1,601  13,530  6,846  2007 2005 5002 Crossings Circle
Mount Kisco, NY — 12,632  46,294  5,124  12,627  51,423  3,756  2019 1996 90 - 1 10 South Bedford Road
Mount Vernon, IL — — 24,892  144 — 25,036  9,398  2011 2012 2 Good Samaritan Way
Murrieta, CA — — 47,190  1,164  — 48,354  24,004  2010 2011 28078 Baxter Rd.
Murrieta, CA — 3,800  — — 3,800  — — 2014 1900 28078 Baxter Rd.
Myrtle Beach, SC — 1,357  3,131  612 1,357  3,743  1,027  2019 1996 8170 Rourk Street
Nampa, ID 15,500  3,439  18,648  2,933  3,439  21,581  1,665  2019 2017 1510 12th Avenue
New Milford, CT — 1,006  3,031  510 1,006  3,541  82 2021 1995 131 Kent Rd
New Milford, CT — 2,033  5,924  895 2,033  6,819  162 2021 1995 131 Kent Rd
Newbur gh, NY — 9,213  28,300  4,079  9,213  32,379  2,082  2019 2015 1200 NY -300
Newburyport, MA — 3,104  18,492  999 3,104  19,491  2,312  2019 2008 One Wallace Bashaw Jr . Way
Newtown, CT — 2,176  7,355  1,785  2,176  9,140  174 2021 2015 164 Mount Pleasant
Newtown, CT — 3,039  7,375  1,989  3,039  9,364  219 2021 2016 170 Mt Pleasant Rd
Niagara Falls, NY — — — 12,805  1,721  11,084  6,921  2007 1995 6932 - 6934 Williams Rd
Niagara Falls, NY — — — 8,959  454 8,505  4,072  2007 2004 6930 Williams Rd
Norfolk, VA — 1,138  23,416  3,667  1,138  27,083  3,678  2019 2014 155 Kingsley Lane
North Canton, OH 12,699  2,518  21,523  2,946  2,518  24,469  1,739  2019 2014 7442 Frank Avenue
North Easton, MA — 2,336  17,936  2,035  2,336  19,971  1,880  2019 2007 15 Roche Brothers Way
North Easton, MA — 2,882  14,463  1,573  2,882  16,036  1,503  2019 2008 31 Roche Brothers Way
Norwood, OH — 1,017  5,642  1,025  1,017  6,667  897 2019 2006 4685 Forest Avenue
Novi, MI — 895 34,573  2,367  895 36,940  4,288  2019 2008 26750 Providence Parkway
Oklahoma City , OK — 216 18,949  — 216 18,949  6,537  2013 2008 535 NW  9th Street
Oxford, NC — 478 4,724  247 478 4,971  552 2019 2011 107 East McClanahan Street
Pasadena, TX — 1,700  8,009  5,862  1,700  13,871  1,736  2012 2013 5001 E Sam Houston Parkway S
Pearland, TX — — — 12,759  1,500  11,259  2,303  2012 2013 2515 Business Center Drive
Pearland, TX — — — 42,538  9,807  32,731  8,729  2014 2013 11511 Shadow Creek Parkway
Phoenix, AZ — 199 3,967  257 199 4,224  521 2019 1980 9225 N 3rd Street
Phoenix, AZ — 109 2,134  133 109 2,267  290 2019 1986 9327 North 3rd Street
Phoenix, AZ — 229 5,442  451 229 5,893  1,026  2019 1994 9100 N 2nd Street
Phoenix, AZ — — — 63,386  1,149  62,237  31,376  2006 1998 2222 E. Highland Ave.
Pinckney , MI — 1,708  3,397  419 1,708  3,816  — 2021 2020 10200 Dexter -Pinckney Rd.
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Outpatient Medical:         
Plano, TX — 793 83,209  5,657  793 88,866  29,367  2012 2005 6020 West Parker Road
Plantation, FL — — — 25,483  8,575  16,908  9,728  2006 1997 851-865 SW  78th Ave.
Port Orchard, WA 9,553  2,810  22,716  483 2,810  23,199  2,864  2018 1995 450 South Kitsap Boulevard
Porter , TX — 3,746  15,119 — 3,746  15,119 724 2018 2019 25553 US Highway 59
Poughkeepsie, NY — 2,144  32,820  4,312  2,144  37,132  2,362  2019 2008 2507 South Road
Poughkeepsie, NY — 4,035  26,001  4,479  4,035  30,480  1,745  2019 2010 30 Columbia Street
Poughkeepsie, NY — 6,513  23,787  4,097  6,513  27,884  1,802  2019 2006 600 Westage Drive
Poughkeepsie, NY 18,433  5,128  18,080  2,704  5,128  20,784  1,373  2019 2012 1910 South Road
Prince Frederick, MD — 229 25,905  1,212  229 27,117 2,789  2019 2009 130 Hospital Road
Prince Frederick, MD — 179 12,243  834 179 13,077  1,691  2019 1991 110 Hospital Road
Rancho Mirage, CA — 7,292  13,214  1,941  7,292  15,155  1,656  2019 2005 72780 Country Club Drive
Redmond, WA — — — 32,841  5,015  27,826  11,744  2010 2011 18100 NE Union Hill Rd.
Richmond, TX — 2,000  9,118 4 2,000  9,122  1,312  2015 2016 22121 FM 1093 Road
Richmond, VA — 2,969  26,697  1,973  3,090  28,549  11,648  2012 2008 7001 Forest Avenue
Rockwall, TX — 132 17,197  392 132 17,589  5,869  2012 2008 3142 Horizon Road
Rolla, MO — 1,931  47,639  1 1,931  47,640  18,457  2011 2009 1605 Martin Spring Drive
Rome, GA — 99 29,846  2,107  99 31,953  4,226  2019 2005 330 Turner McCall Boulevard
Roseville, MN — 2,963  18,785  2,234  2,963  21,019  2,143  2019 1994 1835 W County Road C
Roxboro, NC — 368 2,327  150 368 2,477  279 2019 2000 799 Doctors Court
San Antonio, TX — 3,050  12,073  97 3,050  12,170  1,706  2016 2017 5206 Research Drive
San Antonio, TX — 2,915  11,473  1,313  2,915  12,786  1,696  2019 2006 150 E Sonterra Blvd
Santa Clarita, CA — — 2,338  20,619  5,304  17,653  5,158  2014 1976 23861 McBean Parkway
Santa Clarita, CA — — 28,384  2,924  5,277  26,031  6,867  2014 1998 23929 McBean Parkway
Santa Clarita, CA — 278 185 11,594  11,872  185 235 2014 1996 23871 McBean Parkway
Santa Clarita, CA 25,000  295 39,359  — 295 39,359  8,738  2014 2013 23803 McBean Parkway
Santa Clarita, CA — — 20,618  1,413  4,407  17,624  4,730  2014 1989 24355 L yons Avenue
Seattle, WA — 4,410  38,428  869 4,410  39,297  20,452  2010 2010 5350 Tallman Ave
Sewell, NJ — 1,242  11,616  6 1,242  11,622  1,921  2018 2007 556 Egg Harbor Road
Shakopee, MN 4,821  508 11,398  1 509 11,398  5,321  2010 1996 1515 St Francis Ave
Shakopee, MN 8,113 707 18,089  125 773 18,148  6,646  2010 2007 1601 St Francis Ave
Shenandoah, TX — — 21,135  62 4,574  16,623  2,925  2013 2014 106 Vision Park Boulevard
Sherman Oaks, CA — — 32,186  4,143  3,121  33,208  9,490  2014 1969 4955 Van Nuys Boulevard
Silverdale, WA 12,564  3,451  21,176  12 3,451  21,188  2,757  2018 2004 2200 NW  Myhre Road
Southlake, TX — 2,875  14,126  1,345  2,875  15,471  2,020  2019 2017 925 E. Southlake Boulevard
Southlake, TX — — — 18,641  592 18,049  7,188  2012 2004 1545 East Southlake Boulevard
Southlake, TX — — — 31,295  698 30,597  10,682  2012 2004 1545 East Southlake Boulevard
Southlake, TX — 3,000  — — 3,000  — — 2014 1900 Central Avenue
Springfield, MA — 2,721  5,698  923 2,721  6,621  857 2019 2012 305 Bicentennial Highway
St Paul, MN — — — 38,177  49 38,128  8,866  2014 2006 225 Smith Avenue N.
St. Louis, MO — 336 17,247  3,186  336 20,433  9,422  2007 2001 2325 Dougherty Ferry Rd.
St. Paul, MN — 2,706  39,507  489 2,701  40,001  16,504  2011 2007 435 Phalen Boulevard
Stockton, CA 11,205  4,966  14,412  2,445  4,966  16,857  1,594  2019 2009 2388 - 2488 N California Street
Suffern, NY — 653 37,255  211 696 37,423  16,351  2011 2007 257 Lafayette Avenue(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Outpatient Medical:         
Suffolk, VA — 1,566  11,511 173 1,620  11,630  5,771  2010 2007 5838 Harbour View Blvd.
Sugar Land, TX — — — 19,075  3,543  15,532  7,391  2012 2005 11555 University Boulevard
Sycamore, IL — 1,113 12,910  2,473  1,113 15,383  1,119 2020 2002 1630 Gateway Drive
Tacoma, WA — — — 64,307  — 64,307  26,409  2011 2013 1608 South J Street
Tampa, FL — 4,319  12,234  — 4,319  12,234  3,906  2011 2003 14547 Bruce B Downs Blvd
Tarzana, CA — 6,115 15,510  2,065  6,115 17,575  2,195  2020 1986 5620 Wilbur Ave
Timonium, MD — — — 21,644  8,850  12,794  2,416  2015 2017 2118 Greenspring Drive
Tustin, CA — 3,345  541 297 3,345  838 445 2015 1976 14591 Newport Ave
Tustin, CA — 3,361  12,039  3,633  3,361  15,672  4,531  2015 1985 14642 Newport Ave
Tyler, TX 58,863  2,903  104,300  10,625  2,903  114,925  7,590  2019 2013 1814 Roseland Boulevard
Van Nuys, CA — — — 36,187  — 36,187  13,123  2009 1991 6815 Noble Ave.
Voorhees, NJ — — — 32,517  6,477  26,040  12,099  2006 1997 900 Centennial Blvd.
Voorhees, NJ — 6 96,075  2,347  99 98,329  37,017  2010 2012 200 Bowman Drive
Waco, TX — — — 289 125 164 12 2018 1962 6612 Fish Pond Road
Waco, TX — — — 148 35 113 9 2018 1961 6620 Fish Pond Rd
Waco, TX 13,577  2,250  28,632  352 2,250  28,984  3,685  2018 1981 601 Highway 6 West
Waco, TX — 601 2,594  1,125  468 3,852  797 2018 2000 6600 Fish Pond Rd
Washington, P A 18,243  3,981  31,706  17 3,981  31,723  4,166  2018 2010 100 Trich Drive
Wausau, WI — — — 14,225  2,050  12,175  2,009  2015 2017 1901 Westwood Center Boulevard
Waxahachie, TX — — 18,068  303 303 18,068  4,205  2016 2014 2460 N I-35 East
Wellington, FL — — — 19,718  326 19,392  8,973  2006 2000 10115 Forest Hill Blvd.
Wellington, FL — — — 11,661  580 11,081  5,681  2007 2003 1395 State Rd. 7
Westlake Village, CA 8,000  2,553  15,851  246 2,553  16,097  2,762  2018 1975 1250 La Venta Drive
Westlake Village, CA 6,360  2,487  9,776  169 2,487  9,945  1,540  2018 1989 1220 La Venta Drive
Winston-Salem, NC — 2,006  6,542  1,226  2,006  7,768  1,620  2019 1998 2025 Frontis Plaza
Woodbridge, VA — 346 16,629  15 346 16,644  1,856  2018 2012 12825 Minnieville Road
Wyandotte, MI — 581 8,023  773 581 8,796  652 2020 2002 1700 Biddle Ave
Ypsilanti, MI — 3,615  12,117 579 3,615  12,696  — 2021 1989 4918, 4936, 4940, 4972, and 4990 W. Clark Road
Yuma, AZ — 1,592  9,589  837 1,592  10,426  1,647  2019 2004 2270 South Ridgeview Drive
Zephyrhills, FL — 3,875  27,269  — 3,875  27,269  9,588  2011 1974 38135 Market Square Dr
Outpatient Medical Total $ 530,254  $ 728,837  $ 4,612,615  $ 1,602,519  $ 901,997  $ 6,041,974  $ 1,326,814  (1)
121
Welltower Inc.  
Schedule III  
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  
December 31, 2021  
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuildings &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuildings &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Assets Held For  Sale:  
Brookline, MA $ — $ — $ 3,799  $ — $ — $ 3,799  $ — 2019 1900 125 Holland Road
Concord, NH — 720 3,041  — — 2,974  — 2011 1926 227 Pleasant Street
Concord, NH — 1,760  43,179  — — 21,81 1 — 2011 1994 239 Pleasant Street
Fort Collins, CO — 890 4,532  — — 4,478  — 2018 1965 1005 East Elizabeth
Fountain Valley , CA — 5,259  9,379  — — 13,952  — 2018 1988 11680 Warner Avenue
Franconia, NH — 360 8,609  — — 8,609  — 2011 1971 93 Main Street
Gig Harbor , WA — 3,000  4,463  — — 7,062  — 2018 1990 3309 45th Street Court Northwest
Hemet, CA — 6,224  8,414  — — 14,001  — 2018 1989 1717 West Stetson Avenue
Irving, TX — 1,030  6,823  — — 2,785  — 2007 1999 8855 West Valley Ranch Parkway
Las Vegas, NV — — — 2,945  — 2,945  — 2007 1900 SW corner of Deer Springs Way and Riley Street
Louisville, KY — 490 10,010  — — 7,780  — 2005 1978 4604 Lowe Rd
Morrison, CO — 2,720  16,261  — — 13,433  — 2018 1974 150 Spring Street
Owensboro, KY — 225 13,275  — — 7,687  — 2005 1964 1205 Leitchfield Rd.
Owenton, KY — 100 2,400  — — 1,282  — 2005 1979 905 Hwy . 127 N.
Palm Desert, CA — 6,195  8,922  — — 14,451  — 2018 1989 74350 Country Club Drive
Rexbur g, ID — 1,267  3,213  — — 67 — 2018 1988 660 South 2nd West
Shelbyville, KY — 630 3,870  — — 3,315  — 2005 1965 1871 Midland Trail
Williamstown, KY — 70 6,430  — — 3,666  — 2005 1987 201 Kimberly Lane
Assets Held For  Sale Total $ — $ 30,940  $ 156,620  $ 2,945  $ — $ 134,097  $ — 
122
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period
EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuildings &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuildings &
Improvements Accumulated Depreciation
Summary:        
Seniors Housing Operating $ 1,599,522  $ 1,958,208  $ 15,959,072  $ 2,969,135  $ 2,110,813  $ 18,775,602  $ 4,123,782  
Triple-net 72,536  911,678  7,485,316  592,881  955,620  8,034,255  1,459,518  
Outpatient Medical 530,254  728,837  4,612,615  1,602,519  901,997  6,041,974  1,326,814  
Construction in progress — — 651,389  — — 651,389  — 
Total continuing operating pr operties 2,202,312  3,598,723  28,708,392  5,164,535  3,968,430  33,503,220  6,910,1 14 
Assets held for sale — 30,940  156,620  2,945  — 134,097  — 
Total investments in r eal pr operty owned $ 2,202,312  $ 3,629,663  $ 28,865,012  $ 5,167,480  $ 3,968,430  $ 33,637,317  $ 6,910,1 14 
(1) Please see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding lives used for depreciation and amortization.
 Year Ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019
 (in thousands)  
Investment in real estate:    
Beginning balance $ 33,670,006 $ 36,027,915 $ 33,590,388 
Acquisitions and development 4,805,086 1,174,148 4,807,418 
Improvements 282,834 242,147 328,824 
Impairment of assets (51,107) (135,608) (28,074)
Dispositions (1,063,990) (3,782,120) (2,673,203)
Foreign currency translation (37,082) 143,524 187,853 
Other — — (185,291)
Ending balance $ 37,605,747 $ 33,670,006 $ 36,027,915 
Accumulated depreciation:
Beginning balance $ 6,104,297 $ 5,715,459 $ 5,499,958 
Depreciation and amortization expenses 1,037,566 1,038,437 1,027,073 
Amortization of above market leases 4,036 5,217 5,752 
Disposition and other (234,397) (684,395) (772,273)
Foreign currency translation (1,388) 29,579 (45,051)
Ending balance $ 6,910,114 $ 6,104,297 $ 5,715,459 
(1) Includes property dispositions and dispositions of leasehold improvements which are generally fully depreciated.
(2) Primarily relates to the adoption of ASC 842.
(3) The unaudited aggregate cost for tax purposes for real property equals $31,381,486,000 at December 31, 2021.(1)
(2)
(3)
 (1)
123
Welltower Inc.
Schedule IV - Mortgage Loans on Real Estate
December 31, 2021
    (in thousands)
Location Segment Interest Rate Final Maturity DateMonthly
Payment Terms Prior LiensFace Amount of
MortgagesCarrying
Amount of
MortgagesPrincipal Amount of
Loans Subject to
Delinquent Principal
or Interest
First mortgages relating to 1 property located in:     
North Carolina Triple-net 8.00% 12/18/2023$ 220 $ — $ 32,783 $ 32,171 $ — 
— 32,783 32,171 — 
First mortgages relating to multiple properties located in:
United Kingdom Triple-net 12.00% 4/20/2026 3,848 — 769,500 708,242 — 
— 769,500 708,242 — 
First mortgages less than three percent of total:     
United Kingdom - 2 Triple-net 9.00% 2022 - 2024 N/A N/A N/A 39,862 — 
United States - 10 Various 4% - 8% 2020 - 2026 N/A N/A N/A 96,827 19,865 
— — 136,689 19,865 
Totals     $ — $ 802,283 $ 877,102 $ 19,865 
 
 Year Ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019
Reconciliation of mortgage loans: (in thousands)
Balance at beginning of year $ 293,752 $ 145,686 $ 249,071 
Additions:
New mortgage loans 842,912 193,505 — 
Draws on existing loans 337 20,844 45,961 
Interest added 11,815 — — 
            Total additions 855,064 214,349 45,961 
Deductions:
Collections of principal (214,132) (17,019) (87,249)
Loan balance transferred to non-real estate loans receivable (9,142) (53,071) (64,040)
Change in allowance for credit losses and charge-offs (6,984) (5,645) — 
Other (29,619) (329) — 
Total deductions (259,877) (76,064) (151,289)
Change in balance due to foreign currency translation (11,837) 9,781 1,944 
Balance at end of year $ 877,102 $ 293,752 $ 145,686 
124
