UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 10-K
 
☒ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022
☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from ____ to ____
 Commission File Number 1-8923
WELL TOWER INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware 34-1096634
(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)(I.R.S. Employer
Identification No.)
   
4500 Dorr Street,Toledo, Ohio 43615
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
(419) 247-2800
(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of Each Class Trading Symbol(s) Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
Common Stock, $1.00 par value WELL New York Stock Exchange
Guarantee of 4.800% Notes due 2028 issued by Welltower OP LLC WELL/28 New York Stock Exchange
Guarantee of 4.500% Notes due 2034 issued by Welltower OP LLC WELL/34 New York Stock Exchange
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes  ☑  No  ☐
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.  Yes  ☐   No  ☑
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  ☑  No  ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).  Yes  ☑  No  ☐  
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large
accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
Large accelerated filer ☑ Accelerated filer☐
Non-accelerated filer☐Smaller reporting
company☐Emerging growth
company☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided
pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  Yes  ☐   No  ☑
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C.
7262(b)) by registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report ☑
The aggregate market value of the shares of voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing sales price of such shares on the New York Stock Exchange as of
the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter was $38,131,759,000.
As of February 16, 2023, the registrant had 490,643,990 shares of common stock outstanding.
 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
Portions of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for the annual stockholders’ meeting to be held May 24, 2023, are incorporated by reference into Part III.
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
2022 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
  Page
 PART I
   
Item 1. Business 2
Item 1A. Risk Factors 30
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 45
Item 2. Properties 46
Item 3. Legal Proceedings 47
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 47
   
 PART II
   
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 48
Item 6. [Reserved] 49
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 50
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 76
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 77
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 116
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 116
Item 9B. Other Information 118
Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 118
   
 PART III
   
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 118
Item 11. Executive Compensation 118
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 118
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 118
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 118
   
 PART IV
   
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 119
Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 126
 Signature 127
PART I 
Item 1. Business 
General
Welltower Inc. (NYSE:WELL), an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health care infrastructure. The company invests
with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund the real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery models
and improve people’s wellness and overall health care experience. Welltower™, a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), owns interests in properties concentrated in
major, high-growth markets in the United States (“U.S.”), Canada and the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), consisting of seniors housing, post-acute communities and
outpatient medical properties. More information is available on the Internet at www.welltower.com. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference only.
Our primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders and create
opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of annual increases in net operating income and portfolio growth. To meet these objectives, we
invest across the full spectrum of seniors housing and health care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type, relationship and geographic
location.
On March 7, 2022, we announced our intent to complete an UPREIT reorganization. In February 2022, the company formerly known as Welltower Inc. ("Old
Welltower") formed WELL Merger Holdco Inc. ("New Welltower") as a wholly owned subsidiary, and New Welltower formed WELL Merger Holdco Sub Inc. ("Merger
Sub") as a wholly owned subsidiary. On April 1, 2022, Merger Sub merged with and into Old Welltower, with Old Welltower continuing as the surviving corporation
and a wholly owned subsidiary of New Welltower (the "Merger"). In connection with the Merger, Old Welltower's name was changed to "Welltower OP Inc.", and New
Welltower inherited the name "Welltower Inc." Effective May 24, 2022, Welltower OP Inc. ("Welltower OP") converted from a Delaware corporation into a Delaware
limited liability company named Welltower OP LLC (the "LLC Conversion"). Following the LLC Conversion, New Welltower's business continues to be conducted
through Welltower OP and New Welltower does not have substantial assets or liabilities, other than through its investment in Welltower OP.
Welltower Inc. is the initial member and majority owner of Welltower OP, with an approximate ownership interest of 99.751% as of December 31, 2022. Welltower
Inc. issues equity from time to time, the net proceeds of which it is obligated to contribute as additional capital to Welltower OP. All debt including credit facilities,
senior notes and secured debt is incurred by Welltower OP, and Welltower Inc. has fully and unconditionally guaranteed all existing and future senior unsecured notes.
Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references to "Welltower" mean Welltower Inc. and references to "Welltower OP" mean Welltower OP
LLC. References to “we,” “us,” “our” or the “company” mean collectively Welltower, Welltower OP and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by Welltower
and/or Welltower OP.
Portfolio of Properties
Please see “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation – Executive Summary – Company Overview” for a
table that summarizes our portfolio as of December 31, 2022.
Property Types
We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate and evaluate our business through three reportable segments: Seniors Housing Operating, Triple-net and
Outpatient Medical. For additional information regarding our segments, please see Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements. The accounting policies of the
segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. The following is a
summary of our various property types. 
Seniors Housing Operating
Our Seniors Housing Operating properties include seniors apartments, independent living and independent supportive living, continuing care retirement communities,
assisted living, Alzheimer's/dementia care and include care homes with or without nursing (U.K.), which assist with activities of daily living that preserve a person's
mobility and social systems to promote cognitive engagement. Our properties include stand-alone properties that provide one level of service, combination properties
that provide multiple levels of service and communities or campuses that provide a wide range of services. Properties are primarily held in joint venture entities with
operating partners. We utilize the structure authorized by the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007, which is commonly referred to as a
“RIDEA” structure (the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code authorizing the RIDEA structure were enacted as part of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of
2008). 
Seniors Apartments Seniors apartments generally refer to age-restricted multi-unit housing with self-contained living units for older adults, usually aged 55+ who are
able to care for themselves. Seniors apartments generally do not offer other additional services such as meals.
2
Independent Living and Independent Supportive Living (Canada)  Independent living and independent supportive living generally refers to age-restricted, multifamily
properties with central dining that provide residents access to meals and other services such as housekeeping, linen service, transportation and social and recreational
activities. 
Continuing Care Retirement Communities  Continuing care retirement communities typically include a combination of detached homes and properties offering
independent living, assisted living and/or long-term/post-acute care services on one campus. These communities appeal to residents because there is no need to relocate
when health and medical needs change. Resident payment plans vary, but can include entrance fees, condominium fees and rental fees. Many of these communities also
charge monthly maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services. 
Assisted Living  Assisted living refers to state-regulated rental properties that provide independent living services, but also provide supportive care from trained
employees to residents who require assistance with activities of daily living, including, but not limited to, management of medications, bathing, dressing, toileting,
ambulating and eating.
Alzheimer’s/Dementia Care  Alzheimer's/Dementia Care refers to state-regulated rental properties that generally provide assisted living and independent living
services, but also provide supportive care to residents with memory loss, Alzheimer's disease and/or other types of dementia. Amenities vary, but may include enhanced
security, specialized design features and memory-enhancing therapies that promote relaxation and help slow cognitive decline.
Care Homes with or without Nursing (U.K.)  Care homes without nursing, regulated by the Care Quality Commission ("CQC”), are rental properties that provide
essentially the same services as U.S. assisted living. Care homes with nursing, also regulated by the CQC, are licensed daily rate or rental properties where most
individuals require 24-hour nursing and/or medical care. Generally, these properties are licensed for various national and local reimbursement programs. Unlike the
U.S., care homes with nursing in the U.K. generally do not provide post-acute care.
Our Seniors Housing Operating segment accounted for 72%, 68% and 67% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. As
of December 31, 2022, we had relationships with 43 operators to manage our Seniors Housing Operating properties. In each instance, our partner provides management
services to the properties pursuant to an incentive-based management contract. We rely on our partners to effectively and efficiently manage these properties. For the
year ended December 31, 2022, our relationship with Sunrise Senior Living accounted for approximately 20% of our Seniors Housing Operating segment revenues and
14% of our total revenues. Additionally Revera accounted for approximately 8% of our Seniors Housing Operating segment revenues and 6% our total revenues. Revera
owns a controlling interest in Sunrise Senior Living.
Triple-net
Our Triple-net properties offer services including independent living and independent supportive living (Canada), assisted living, continuing care retirement
communities, Alzheimer's/dementia care and care homes with or without nursing (U.K.) described above, as well as long-term/post-acute care. Our properties include
stand-alone properties that provide one level of service, combination facilities that provide multiple levels of service, and communities or campuses that provide a wide
range of services. We invest primarily through acquisitions, development and joint venture partnerships. Our properties are primarily leased to operators under long-
term, triple-net master leases that obligate the tenant to pay all operating costs, utilities, real estate taxes, insurance, building repairs, maintenance costs and all
obligations under certain ground leases. We are not involved in property management.
Long-Term/Post-Acute Care Facilities  Post-acute care is at the leading edge of reducing health care costs while improving quality. These high-impact centers help
patients recover from illness or surgery with the goals of getting the patient home and healed faster and reducing hospital readmission rates. Our long-term/post-acute
care properties generally offer skilled nursing/post-acute care, inpatient rehabilitation and long-term acute care services. Skilled nursing/post-acute care refers to
licensed daily rate or rental properties where most individuals require 24-hour nursing and/or medical care. Generally, these properties are licensed for Medicaid and/or
Medicare reimbursement in the U.S. or provincial reimbursement in Canada. All properties offer some level of rehabilitation services. Some properties focus on higher
acuity patients and offer rehabilitation units specializing in cardiac, orthopedic, dialysis, neurological or pulmonary rehabilitation. Inpatient rehabilitation properties
provide intensive inpatient services after illness, injury or surgery to patients able to tolerate and benefit from three hours of rehabilitation per day. Long-term acute care
properties provide inpatient services for patients with complex medical conditions that require more intensive care, monitoring or emergency support than is available in
most skilled nursing/post-acute care properties.
Our Triple-net segment accounted for 16%, 19% and 17% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. For the year ended
December 31, 2022, our revenues related to our relationship with ProMedica Health System ("ProMedica") accounted for approximately 26% of our Triple-net segment
revenues and 4% of total revenues. In December 2022, ProMedica relinquished to Welltower its 15% interest in 147 skilled nursing facilities previously owned by the
Welltower/ProMedica joint venture in exchange for a lease modification, which relieved ProMedica from its lease obligation on the 147 skilled nursing properties and
amended the lease on the remaining 58 assisted living and memory care properties that
3
continue to be held by the Welltower/ProMedica joint venture. The 58 assisted living and memory care assets continue to be operated by ProMedica and backed by the
existing guaranty. Concurrently, Welltower and Integra Healthcare Properties ("Integra") entered into master leases for the skilled nursing portfolio. Approximately 15
regional operators will enter into subleases with Integra to operate the properties. Also in December 2022 and January 2023, we sold to Integra a 15% ownership interest
in 85 of those skilled nursing facilities and Integra is expected to buy into the remaining 62 assets throughout 2023.
For the year ended December 31, 2022, our revenues related to our relationship with Genesis Healthcare ("Genesis") accounted for approximately 2% of our Triple-
net segment revenues and less than 1% of our total revenues. During 2020, Genesis indicated substantial doubt as to their ability to continue as a going concern. As a
result, effective July 1, 2020, we recognized reserves for all existing straight-line rent receivable balances of $91,025,000 as a reduction to rental income and now
recognize rental income from Genesis on a cash basis. Additionally, in March 2021, we entered into definitive agreements to substantially exit our operating relationship
with Genesis. As of December 31, 2022, our relationship with Genesis was comprised of one property owned 100% by us and leased to Genesis, a loan balance net of
allowance for credit losses of $168,949,000, approximately 9.5 million shares of GEN Series A common stock and a 25% ownership stake in an unconsolidated joint
venture that includes two master leases for 28 properties operated by Genesis.
Outpatient Medical
Outpatient Medical Buildings  Demand for outpatient medical services is growing as more procedures are performed safely and efficiently outside the hospital setting.
State-of-the-art outpatient centers are needed in accessible, consumer-friendly locations. Our portfolio of outpatient medical buildings is an integral part of creating
health care provider connectivity in local markets and generally include physician offices, ambulatory surgery centers, diagnostic facilities, outpatient services and/or
labs. Approximately 87% of our outpatient medical building portfolio is affiliated with health systems (buildings directly on or adjacent to hospital campuses or with
tenants that are satellite locations for the health system and its physicians). We typically lease our outpatient medical buildings to multiple tenants and provide varying
levels of property management. Our Outpatient Medical segment accounted for 12%, 13% and 16% of total revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2022,
2021 and 2020, respectively. No single tenant exceeds 20% of segment revenues.
Investments
Providing high-quality and affordable health care to an aging global population requires vast investments and infrastructure development. We invest in seniors
housing and health care real estate primarily through acquisitions, developments and joint venture partnerships. For additional information regarding acquisition and
development activity, please see Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements. Our portfolio creates opportunities to connect partners across the continuum of care
and drive efficiency. We seek to diversify our investment portfolio by property type, relationship and geographic location. In determining whether to invest in a property,
we focus on the following: (1) the experience of the obligor’s/partner’s management team; (2) the historical and projected financial and operational performance of the
property; (3) the credit of the obligor/partner; (4) the security for any lease or loan; (5) the real estate attributes of the building and its location; (6) the capital committed
to the property by the obligor/partner; and (7) the operating fundamentals of the applicable industry. 
We monitor our investments through a variety of methods determined by the type of property. Our asset management process for seniors housing properties generally
includes review of monthly financial statements and other operating data for each property, review of obligor/partner creditworthiness, property inspections, and review
of covenant compliance relating to licensure, real estate taxes, letters of credit and other collateral. Our internal property management division manages and monitors
the outpatient medical portfolio with a comprehensive process including review of, among other things, tenant relations, lease expirations, the mix of health service
providers, hospital/health system relationships, property performance, capital improvement needs, and market conditions. 
Investment Types 
Real Property  Our properties are primarily comprised of land, buildings, improvements and related rights. Our triple-net properties are generally leased to operators
under long-term operating leases. The leases generally have a fixed contractual term of 12 to 15 years and contain one or more five to 15-year renewal options. Certain
of our leases also contain purchase options, a portion of which could result in the disposition of properties for less than full market value if the options were to be
exercised. Most of our rents are received under triple-net leases requiring the operator to pay rent and all additional charges incurred in the operation of the leased
property. The tenants are required to repair, rebuild and maintain the leased properties. Substantially all these operating leases are designed with escalating rent
structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment.
Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. 
4
At December 31, 2022, approximately 96% of our triple-net properties were subject to master leases. A master lease is a lease of multiple properties to one tenant
entity under a single lease agreement. From time to time, we may acquire additional properties that are then leased to the tenant under the master lease. The tenant is
required to make one monthly payment that represents rent on all the properties that are subject to the master lease. Typically, the master lease tenant can exercise its
right to purchase the properties or to renew the master lease only with respect to all leased properties at the same time. We believe this bundling feature benefits us
because the tenant cannot limit the purchase or renewal to better performing properties and terminate the leasing arrangement with respect to poorer performing
properties. This spreads our risk among the entire group of properties within the master lease. The bundling feature should provide a similar advantage to us if the
master lease tenant is in bankruptcy. Subject to certain restrictions, a debtor in bankruptcy has the right to assume or reject its unexpired leases and executory
contracts. In the context of integrated master leases such as ours, our tenants in bankruptcy would be required to assume or reject the master lease as a whole, rather than
deciding on a property by property basis. 
Our Outpatient Medical portfolio is primarily self-managed and consists mainly of multi-tenant properties leased to health care providers. Our leases typically include
increasers and some form of operating expense reimbursement by the tenant. As of December 31, 2022, 62% of our portfolio included leases with full pass through,
31% with a partial expense reimbursement (modified gross) and 7% with no expense reimbursement (gross). Our outpatient medical leases are non-cancellable
operating leases that have a weighted-average remaining term of seven years at December 31, 2022 and are often credit enhanced by security deposits, guarantees and/or
letters of credit.
Construction  We provide funds for the construction of properties for tenants primarily as part of long-term operating leases. We capitalize certain interest costs
associated with funds used for the construction of properties owned by us. The amount capitalized is based upon the amount advanced during the construction period
using the rate of interest that approximates our company-wide cost of financing. Our interest expense is reduced by the amount capitalized. The construction period
commences upon initial funding and terminates upon the earlier of the completion of the applicable property or the end of a specified period. During the construction
period, we advance funds to the tenants in accordance with agreed upon terms and conditions which require, among other things, periodic site visits by a company
representative. During the construction period, we generally require an additional credit enhancement in the form of payment and performance bonds and/or completion
guarantees. At December 31, 2022, we had outstanding construction investments of $1,021,080,000 and were committed to provide additional funds of approximately
$1,883,449,000 to complete construction for consolidated investment properties. We also provide for construction loans which, depending on the terms and conditions,
could be treated as loans or investments in unconsolidated entities. 
Loans  Our real estate loans are typically structured to provide us with interest income, principal amortization and transaction fees. Real estate loans consist of
mortgage loans and other real estate loans which are primarily collateralized by a first, second or third mortgage lien, a leasehold mortgage on, or an assignment of the
partnership interest in the related properties, corporate guarantees and/or personal guarantees. Non-real estate loans are generally corporate loans with no real estate
backing. At December 31, 2022, we had outstanding loans, net of allowances, of $1,180,012,000 with an interest yield of approximately 9.9% per annum. Our yield on
loans depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest rate, average principal amount outstanding during the term of the loan and any interest rate
adjustments. The loans outstanding at December 31, 2022 are generally subject to one to 15-year terms with principal amortization schedules and/or balloon payments
of the outstanding principal balances at the end of the term.
Investments in Unconsolidated Entities Investments in entities that we do not consolidate but for which we can exercise significant influence over operating and
financial policies are reported under the equity method of accounting. At December 31, 2022, we had investments in unconsolidated entities of $1,499,790,000. Our
investments in unconsolidated entities generally represent interests ranging from 10% to 88% in real estate assets. Under the equity method of accounting, our share of
the investee’s earnings or losses is included in our consolidated results of operations. The initial carrying value of investments in unconsolidated entities is based on the
amount paid to purchase the entity interest inclusive of transaction costs. We evaluate our equity method investments for impairment based upon a comparison of the
estimated fair value of the equity method investment to its carrying value. When we determine a decline in the estimated fair value of such an investment below its
carrying value is other-than-temporary, an impairment is recorded. 
In Substance Real Estate Additionally, we provide loans to third parties for the acquisition, development and construction of real estate. Under these arrangements, it
is possible that we will participate in the expected residual profits of the project through the sale, refinancing or acquisition of the property. We evaluate the
characteristics of each arrangement, including its risks and rewards, to determine whether they are more similar to those associated with a loan or an investment in real
estate. Arrangements with characteristics implying real estate joint ventures are treated as in substance real estate investments, accounted for using the equity method,
and are presented as investments in unconsolidated entities. We have made loans related to 21 properties with a carrying value of $649,267,000 as of December 31,
2022, which are classified as in substance real estate investments.
5
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements are in conformity with U.S general accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) and include the accounts of our wholly-
owned subsidiaries and joint venture entities that we control, through voting rights or other means. All material intercompany transactions and balances have been
eliminated in consolidation.
At inception of joint venture transactions, we identify entities for which control is achieved through means other than voting rights (“variable interest entities” or
“VIEs”) and determine which business enterprise is the primary beneficiary of its operations. A VIE is broadly defined as an entity where either (i) the equity investors
as a group, if any, do not have a controlling financial interest, or (ii) the equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity’s activities without additional
subordinated financial support. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary. Accounting Standards Codification Topic
810, "Consolidations", requires enterprises to perform a qualitative approach to determining whether or not a VIE will need to be consolidated. This evaluation is based
on an enterprise’s ability to direct and influence the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact that entity’s economic performance.
For investments in joint ventures, U.S. GAAP may preclude consolidation by the sole general partner in certain circumstances based on the type of rights held by the
limited partner(s). We assess the limited partners’ rights and their impact on our consolidation conclusions, and we reassess if there is a change to the terms or in the
exercisability of the rights of the limited partners, the sole general partner increases or decreases its ownership of limited partnership interests, or there is an increase or
decrease in the number of outstanding limited partnership interests. We similarly evaluate the rights of managing members of limited liability companies.
Borrowing Policies
We utilize a combination of debt and equity to fund investments. Generally, we intend to issue unsecured, fixed-rate public debt with long-term maturities to
approximate the maturities on our triple-net leases and investment strategy. For short-term purposes, we may borrow on our primary unsecured credit facility or issue
commercial paper. We typically replace these borrowings with long-term capital such as senior unsecured notes or common stock. When terms are deemed favorable,
we may invest in properties subject to existing mortgage indebtedness. In addition, we may obtain secured financing for unleveraged properties in which we have
invested or may refinance properties acquired on a leveraged basis. In certain agreements with our lenders, we are subject to restrictions with respect to secured and
unsecured indebtedness.
Competition
We compete with other real estate investment trusts, real estate partnerships, private equity and hedge fund investors, banks, insurance companies, finance/investment
companies, government-sponsored agencies, taxable and tax-exempt bond funds, health care operators, developers and other investors in the acquisition, development,
leasing and financing of health care and seniors housing properties. We compete for investments based on a number of factors including relationships, certainty of
execution, investment structures and underwriting criteria. Our ability to successfully compete is impacted by economic and demographic trends, availability of
acceptable investment opportunities, our ability to negotiate beneficial investment terms, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs and
applicable laws and regulations.
The operators/tenants of our properties compete with properties that provide comparable services in the local markets. Operators/tenants compete for patients and
residents based on a number of factors including quality of care, reputation, physical appearance of properties, location, services offered, family preferences (including a
preference for home health services instead of residing in one of our communities), physicians, staff and price. We also face competition from other health care facilities
for tenants, such as physicians and other health care providers that provide comparable facilities and services.
For additional information on the risks associated with our business, please see “Item 1A — Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Environmental, Social and Governance
Environmental, Social and Governance ("ESG") Approach We are committed to operating in a responsible, transparent and sustainable manner. Our leadership
(through the ESG Steering Committee launched in 2022) and Board of Directors (through the Nominating Corporate/Governance Committee), oversee and advance our
ESG initiatives. We recognize that focusing on ESG engagement, integration and impact benefit our stakeholders and are fundamental to our business. Our corporate
responsibility and sustainability strategy is focused on adopting leading ESG practices across our business and we were recognized for our leadership in this space over
the past year in the following ways:
•Recognized at the Management band level with a CDP score of “B” for taking coordinated action on climate issues;
•Raised MSCI ESG rating from AA to AAA;
•Listed in the FTSE4Good Index since 2012;
6
•Recognized by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and U.S. Department of Energy as an ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year for the fourth
consecutive year and maintained the level of Sustained Excellence, the EPA’s highest recognition within the ENERGY STAR program;
•Maintained top 30% (3rd decile) ISS Quality Score ranking for each Governance, Environment and Social;
•Named to the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index for the fourth consecutive year;
•Maintained Prime status under the ISS-ESG Corporate rating for the fourth consecutive year;
•Improved GRESB score and maintained GRESB Green Star status;
•Named by S&P Global in the 2022 edition of The Sustainability Yearbook;
•Recognized by Labrador as a 2022 Transparency Award winner in the real estate industry for our clear and concise disclosure of relevant information to
stakeholders in our annual proxy statement, Form 10-K, and investor relations website
•Named to the top 30 percent of Newsweek’s America’s Most Responsible Companies list for the fourth consecutive year; and
•Named to Sustainalytics 2022 Top-Rated ESG Companies list.
Environmental We strive to reduce our environmental impact by increasing energy and water efficiency, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and by investing in
projects that reduce energy and water consumption that meet our rate of return threshold. After several years of portfolio and program evolution, along with our
increased ability to collect data in partnership with our operators and tenants, our property-level sustainability dataset (energy, greenhouse gas ("GHG"), water, and
waste) is evolving to become a set of tools for benchmarking. A portion of our self-managed Outpatient Medical portfolio is benchmarked in EPA ENERGY STAR
Portfolio Manager ("ESPM") and we regularly engage with our operators and tenants on ENERGY STAR, utility bill aggregators, utility companies, and others to add to
our number of ESPM benchmarked properties throughout our portfolio.
We have employee, tenant, operator/manager and vendor engagement programs in place, focused on operational strategies to drive energy and water efficiency. We
have issued guidance with accompanying training to assist them to successfully benchmark our buildings and to engage them to improve energy and water efficiency, as
well as increase their recycling diversion rates.
In December 2019, we issued our inaugural green bond of $500,000,000 of 2.700% senior unsecured notes due 2027 and in March 2022 we issued an additional green
bond of $550,000,000 of 3.85% senior unsecured notes due 2032. The net proceeds from the offerings have been, and continue to be, used to fund energy efficiency,
water conservation and green building projects. As of September 30, 2022, we have utilized $572,090,000 of proceeds from these issuances on such projects.
We understand that as we continue to make our operations and buildings more sustainable, we also have a responsibility to effectuate the same in our supply chain and
our purchasing decisions. As such, we partner with suppliers that offer take back programs for their products, look for the ENERGY STAR label when purchasing
eligible items, seek to purchase office supply products that contain recycled content and purchase paper products that are either Forest Stewardship Council or
Sustainable Forestry Initiative certified.
Social We value and are committed to our employees. We believe that a diverse workplace produces a variety of perspectives, motivates employees and helps us
understand and better serve our stakeholders, and the communities in which we do business. As of December 31, 2022, our U.S. employees self-identified as follows:
Ethnicity Male Female
Asian 7 % 9 %
Black or African American 4 % 8 %
Hispanic or Latino 8 % 7 %
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander — % 1 %
Two or More Races 1 % 2 %
White 80 % 73 %
100 % 100 %
Gender 51 % 49 %
We have reinforced our already strong commitment to diversity and inclusion through our Diversity Council and support of our eight employee network groups
("ENGs"). Our ENGs include women, families, racial and ethnic minorities, military, young professionals, and those who identify as LGBTQI+ and their allies. Our
ENGs provide support, education, networking opportunities and community belonging for our employees. Our support of diversity and inclusion through our Diversity
7
Council and ENGs, taken together with other employee initiatives, such as tailored messaging, training and discussions on equality and belonging, support our efforts to
compete for and foster talent and inclusiveness in an ever-changing workforce.
In addition, we have several social initiatives in place that are focused on fostering a more diverse workforce, engaging with our communities and promoting the
health and well-being of our employees, tenants and residents. The Welltower Charitable Foundation (the "Foundation") financially supports charitable initiatives related
to aging, health care, the environment, education and the arts. Since its inception, the Foundation has provided more than $42 million in cash and in-kind support. We
encourage our employees to give back to the community by matching their contributions and donating their time to eligible charitable organizations. Funds are also
allocated to each of our ENGs to make charitable contributions in support of their programming efforts. Additionally, the Foundation facilitates presentations for
charities to compete in the Give-WELL campaign. This campaign enables our employees to present and vote for charities that will receive donations from the
Foundation. During 2022, we sponsored our third annual Day of Giving so our employees could collaborate to make an impact with local charitable organizations
through volunteer opportunities. See Human Capital section below for additional information regarding employee initiatives and programs.
Governance Our commitment to diversity starts at the top with a highly knowledgeable, skilled and diverse Board of Directors. As of December 31, 2022, our ten
Directors self-identified as follows:
Board Composition
Ethnicity Gender
Asian 10 % Male 60 %
Black or African American 20 % Female 40 %
Hispanic or Latino 20 % 100 %
White 50 %
100 %
Nine of our ten Directors are independent and the independent Chair of our Board is held by a Black/African American male. Four of five, or 80%, of our Board
committees are chaired by either a Female (2), Hispanic/Latino (1) or Black/African American (1) Director.
Additional information regarding our ESG programs and initiatives is available in our 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Report (located on our website at
www.welltower.com). Information on our website, including our Environmental, Social and Governance Report or sections thereof, is not incorporated by reference into
this Annual Report.
Human Capital
Our employees are our greatest asset. As of December 31, 2022, we had 514 employees (491 located in United States, 14 in the United Kingdom, eight in Canada and
one in Luxembourg). We are committed to the success of our people and the unique combination of skills and experiences they bring to achieving our mission.
Employee Engagement High employee engagement and satisfaction are critical to attracting and retaining top talent. During 2022, we conducted an employee
engagement survey through an independent third party, measuring our progress on important employee issues such as manager relationships, employee empowerment,
performance management and resources and support, and identifying opportunities for growth and improvement. The 2022 overall engagement score improved over the
2021 engagement score as a result of managers taking action on the 2021 results.
Employee Development Programs and Performance Management Development through the talent pipeline, recognizing and rewarding performance and providing
opportunities for continued growth are the cornerstones of our Human Capital strategy. We offer employees resources, trainings and tools designed to develop future
leaders, advance careers and attract and retain talent including but not limited to our robust early career programs, formal mentorship and coaching programs, manager
development training, skill development courses and education assistance. During 2022, we continued executive management coaching programs to equip leaders with
structured 360 feedback, customized development plans and guidance on company-wide succession planning. For some leaders, we partnered with a virtual coaching
platform that scales individual access to expert coaches, training opportunities and enables behavioral change through award-winning artificial intelligence. For our
senior vice presidents, we partnered with an independent advisory firm to provide one-on-one coaching, including an extensive 360 feedback process to focus on
maximizing their executive leadership potential.
Compensation and Benefits In addition to salary, our compensation and benefits programs include annual short term incentive bonuses, long-term incentive stock
awards, retirement plans, an employee stock purchase plan, healthcare and insurance benefits, health savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off, parental and
caregiver leave, senior wellness leave, employee assistance programs, tuition assistance and health and wellness reimbursement programs, among many others. With the
assistance of independent third parties, we annually evaluate and benchmark the competitiveness of our compensation and benefits programs focusing on fair pay
practices that reward performance and support the needs of our employees.
8
Health, Safety and Wellness The success of our business is fundamentally connected to the safety and well-being of our employees, tenants, operators and managers,
and their residents and visitors, as the case may be. We provide our employees and their families with access to numerous innovative, flexible and convenient health and
wellness programs that support physical, mental and financial well-being. While COVID-19 continued in 2022, our focus remained on providing a safe office
environment for our employees while continuing to allow for remote work, hybrid work and flexible work schedules where feasible. With the support of the varying
work arrangements and a geographically dispersed workforce, we continued to develop ways to best support our people. We improved our employee experience by
growing our internal communication platform (intranet), enhancing connectivity and collaboration. The mobile application created an easily accessible digital home-
base where all company communications, including important office announcements, must-read company articles and external media engagements are located.
Additional communication tools, including podcasts, town hall meetings, team events (virtually and in person) and dedicated communication channels for ENGs,
demonstrate our commitment to ensuring employee alignment and engagement. Although workplace injuries are minimal, our safety committee implemented a
workforce injury root cause analysis program to ensure we focus on future incident prevention and improvement.
Credit Concentrations  Please see Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements.
Geographic Concentrations  Please see “Item 2 – Properties” below and Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements.
Certain Government Regulations
United States
Health Law Matters — Generally
Typically, operators of seniors housing facilities do not receive significant funding from government programs and are largely subject to state laws, as opposed to
federal laws. Operators of long-term/post-acute care facilities and hospitals do receive significant funding from government programs, and these facilities are subject to
extensive regulation, including federal and state laws covering the type and quality of medical and/or nursing care provided, ancillary services (e.g., respiratory,
occupational, physical and infusion therapies), qualifications of the administrative personnel and nursing staff, the adequacy of the physical plant and equipment,
reimbursement and rate setting and operating policies. In addition, as described below, operators of these facilities are subject to extensive laws and regulations
pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including, but not limited to, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute (“AKS”), the federal Stark Law (“Stark Law”), and the federal
False Claims Act (“FCA”), as well as comparable state laws. Hospitals, physician group practice clinics, and other health care providers that operate in our portfolio are
subject to extensive federal, state, and local licensure, registration, certification, and inspection laws, regulations, and industry standards, as well as other conditions of
participation in federal and state government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Further, operators of long-term care facilities are required to have in place
compliance and ethics programs that meet the requirements of federal laws and regulations. Our tenants’ failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could
result in, among other things: loss of accreditation; denial of reimbursement; imposition of fines; suspension, decertification, or exclusion from federal and state health
care programs; loss of license; or closure of the facility. See risk factors “The requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such as Medicare
or Medicaid, could have a material adverse effect on our obligors’ liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect our obligors’
ability to meet their obligations to us” and “Our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and
inspection laws, regulations, and standards could adversely affect such operators’ or tenants’ operations, which could adversely affect our operators’ and tenants’ ability
to meet their obligations to us” in “Item 1A – Risk Factors” below. Moreover, in light of certain arrangements that Welltower may pursue with healthcare entities who
are directly subject to laws and regulations pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, and, given that certain of our arrangements are structured under the provisions of
the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007 ("RIDEA"), certain health care fraud and abuse laws and data privacy laws could apply directly to
Welltower. See risk factor "We assume operational and legal risks with respect to our properties managed in RIDEA structures that could have a material adverse effect
on our business results of operations, and financial condition" in "Item 1A - Risk Factors" below.
Licensing and Certification
The primary regulations that affect seniors housing facilities are state licensing and certification laws. For example, certain health care facilities are subject to a
variety of licensure and certificate of need (“CON”) laws and regulations. Where applicable, CON laws generally require, among other requirements, that a facility
demonstrate the need for (1) constructing a new facility, (2) adding beds or expanding an existing facility, (3) investing in major capital equipment or adding new
services, (4) changing the ownership or control of an existing licensed facility or (5) terminating services that have been previously approved through the CON
process. Certain state CON laws and regulations may restrict the ability of operators to add new properties or expand an existing facility’s size or services. In addition,
CON laws may constrain the ability of an operator to transfer responsibility for operating a particular facility to a new operator.
9
With respect to licensure, generally our long-term/post-acute care facilities are required to be licensed by the applicable state regulatory authority and certified for
participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. The failure of our operators to maintain or renew any required license or
regulatory approval as well as the failure of our operators to correct serious deficiencies identified in a compliance survey could require those operators to discontinue
operations at a property. In addition, if a property is found to be out of compliance with Medicare, Medicaid or other federal or state health care program conditions of
participation, the property operator may be excluded from participating in those government health care programs.
Reimbursement
The reimbursement methodologies applied to health care facilities continue to evolve. Federal and state authorities have considered and implemented and may
continue seeking to implement new or modified reimbursement methodologies, including value-based reimbursement methodologies that may negatively impact health
care property operations. Likewise, third-party payors may continue imposing greater controls on operators, including through changes in reimbursement rates and fee
structures. The impact of any such changes, if implemented, may result in a material adverse effect on our portfolio. No assurance can be given that current revenue
sources or levels will be maintained. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that payments under a government health care program are currently, or will be in the
future, sufficient to fully reimburse the property operators for their operating and capital expenses.
•Seniors Housing Facilities  The majority of the revenues received by the operators of U.S. seniors housing facilities are from private pay sources. The remaining
revenue source is primarily Medicaid provided under state waiver programs for home and community-based care. There can be no guarantee that a state Medicaid
program operating pursuant to a waiver will be able to maintain its waiver status. Rates paid by self-pay residents are set by the facilities and are determined by
local market conditions and operating costs. Generally, facilities receive a higher payment per day for a private pay resident than for a Medicaid beneficiary who
requires a comparable level of care. The level of Medicaid reimbursement varies from state to state. Thus, the revenues generated by operators of our assisted living
facilities may be adversely affected by payor mix, acuity level, or changes in Medicaid eligibility and reimbursement levels.
•Long-Term/Post-Acute Care Facilities  The majority of the revenues received by the operators of these facilities are from the Medicare and Medicaid programs,
with the balance representing reimbursement payments from private payors and patients. Consequently, changes in federal or state reimbursement policies may
adversely affect an operator’s ability to cover its expenses, including our rent or debt service. Long-term/post-acute care facilities are subject to periodic pre- and
post-payment reviews and other audits by federal and state authorities. A review or audit of a property operator’s claims could result in recoupments, denials or
delay of payments in the future. Due to the significant judgments and estimates inherent in payor settlement accounting, no assurance can be given as to the
adequacy of any reserves maintained by our property operators to cover potential adjustments to reimbursements or to cover settlements made to payors.
◦ Medicare Reimbursement Generally, long-term/post-acute care facilities are reimbursed by Medicare under prospective payment systems, which generally
provide reimbursement based upon a predetermined fixed amount per episode of care and are updated by CMS, an agency of the Department of Health and
Human Services (“HHS”) annually. There is a risk under these payment systems that costs will exceed the fixed payments, or that payments may be set below
the costs to provide certain items and services. Further, there is risk that Medicare Skilled Nursing Facility ("SNF") payment reforms may impact our tenants
and operators. In addition, the HHS Office of Inspector General has released recommendations to address SNF billing practices and Medicare payment rates,
which may impact our tenants and operators. In September 2022, HHS announced that additional data about the ownership of all Medicare-certified nursing
homes will be released to the public. This information will make it easier for stakeholders (such as state licensing officials, state and federal law enforcement
and researchers) and the public to identify common owners of nursing homes across different nursing home locations. The information will also allow for
greater accessibility to information regarding facilities' performance and any common ownership links among facilities with poor performance. CMS
announced it is increasing scrutiny and oversight over the country's poorest performing nursing facilities by strengthening requirements for completion of the
Special Focus Facility Program and increasing enforcement actions against facilities that fail to demonstrate improvement, including denial of payment and
potential loss of Medicare certification.
◦Medicaid Reimbursement  Many states reimburse SNFs using fixed daily rates, which are applied prospectively based on patient acuity and the historical costs
incurred in providing patient care. In most states, Medicaid does not fully reimburse the cost of providing services. Certain states are attempting to slow the rate
of Medicaid growth by freezing rates or restricting eligibility and benefits. In addition, Medicaid reimbursement rates may decline if state revenues in a
particular state are not sufficient to fund budgeted expenditures.
•Medicare Reimbursement for Physicians, Hospital Outpatient Departments (“HOPDs”), and Ambulatory Surgical Centers (“ASCs”) Changes in reimbursement to
physicians, HOPDs and ASCs may further affect our tenants and operators. Generally, Medicare reimburses physicians under the Physician Fee Schedule, while
HOPDs and ASCs are reimbursed under prospective payment systems. The Physician Fee Schedule and the HOPD and ASC prospective payment
10
systems are updated annually by CMS. These annual Medicare payment regulations have resulted in lower net pay increases than providers of those services have
often expected. In addition, the Medicare and Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2015 (“MACRA”) includes payment reductions for
providers who do not meet government quality standards. The implementation of pay-for-quality models like those required under MACRA has the potential to
produce funding disparities that could adversely impact some provider tenants in outpatient medical buildings and other health care properties. Changes in
Medicare Advantage plan payments may also indirectly affect our operators and tenants that contract with Medicare Advantage plans.
•Health Reform Laws  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the “Health
Reform Laws”) dramatically altered how health care is delivered and reimbursed in the U.S. and any substantial changes may directly impact us or the operators
and tenants of our properties. Other health reform measures could be implemented as a result of political, legislative, regulatory and administrative developments
and judicial proceedings. On February 28, 2022, President Biden announced reforms to be implemented by CMS to ensure that: (a) every nursing home provides a
sufficient number of staff who are adequately trained to provide high-quality care; (b) poorly performing nursing homes are held accountable for improper and
unsafe care and immediately improve their services or are cut off from taxpayer dollars; and (c) the public has better information about nursing home conditions so
that they can find the best available options. These reforms include minimum staffing requirements, reinforced safeguards against unnecessary medications, more
funding for inspection activities, increased scrutiny on poor performers and expanded financial penalties and other sanctions. We cannot predict whether the
existing Health Reform Laws, or future health care reform legislation, executive order, or regulatory changes, will have a material impact on our operators’ or
tenants’ property or business.
Fraud & Abuse Enforcement
Long-term/post-acute care facilities (and seniors housing facilities that receive Medicaid payments) are subject to federal, state, and local laws, regulations, and
applicable guidance that govern the operations and financial and other arrangements that may be entered into by health care providers. Certain of these laws, such as the
AKS and Stark Law, prohibit direct or indirect payments of any kind for the purpose of inducing or encouraging the referral of patients for medical products or services
reimbursable by government health care programs. Other government health program laws require providers to furnish only medically necessary services and submit to
the government valid and accurate statements for each service. Our operators and tenants that receive payments from federal health care programs, such as Medicare and
Medicaid, are subject to substantial financial penalties under the Civil Monetary Penalties Act and the FCA upon a finding of noncompliance with such laws. In
addition, states may also have separate false claims acts, which, among other things, generally prohibit health care providers from filing false claims or making false
statements to receive payments. Federal and state FCAs contain "whistleblower" provisions that permit private individuals to bring health care fraud enforcement claims
on behalf of the government. Still other laws require providers to comply with a variety of safety, health and other requirements relating to the condition of the licensed
property and the quality of care provided. Sanctions for violations of these laws, regulations and other applicable guidance may include, but are not limited to, criminal
and/or civil penalties and fines, loss of licensure, immediate termination of government payments, exclusion from any government health care program, damage
assessments and imprisonment. In certain circumstances, violation of these rules (such as those prohibiting abusive and fraudulent behavior) with respect to one
property may subject other facilities under common control or ownership to sanctions, including exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs,
as well as other government health care programs, and revocation of healthcare licenses. In the ordinary course of its business, a property operator is regularly subjected
to inquiries, investigations and audits by the federal and state agencies that oversee these laws and regulations.
Prosecutions, investigations or whistleblower actions could have a material adverse effect on a property operator’s liquidity, financial condition, and operations, which
could adversely affect the ability of the operator to meet its financial obligations to us. In addition, government investigations and enforcement actions brought against
the health care industry have increased dramatically over the past several years and are expected to continue. The costs for an operator of a health care property
associated with both defending such enforcement actions and the undertakings in settling these actions can be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on the
ability of an operator to meet its obligations to us. In addition, Welltower could potentially be directly subject to these health care fraud and abuse laws, as well as
potential investigation or enforcement, as a result of our RIDEA-structured arrangements, and certain collaboration or other arrangements we may pursue with
stakeholders who are directly subject to these laws.
Federal and State Data Privacy and Security Laws
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health
Act, and numerous other state and federal laws govern the collection, security, dissemination, use, access to and confidentiality of personal information, including
individually identifiable health information. Violations of these laws may result in substantial civil and/or criminal fines and penalties. The costs to a business such as
ours or to an operator of a health care property associated with developing and maintaining programs and systems to comply with data privacy and security laws,
defending against privacy and security related claims or enforcement actions and
11
paying any assessed fines, can be substantial. Moreover, such costs could have a material adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet its obligations to us.
Finally, data privacy and security laws and regulations continue to develop, including with regard to HIPAA and U.S. state privacy laws. The California Consumer
Privacy Act has been amended by the California Privacy Rights Act. These updates and the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act went into effect January 1, 2023.
Similar comprehensive privacy laws from Colorado, Connecticut and Utah will go into effect in 2023. As we use data to better inform our investments and the efficacy
of care in our communities, these developments may add potential uncertainty and costs towards compliance obligations, business operations or transactions that depend
on data. These new privacy laws may create restrictions or requirements in our, our operators' and other business partners' use, sharing and securing of data. New
privacy and security laws could require substantial investment in resources to comply with regulatory changes as privacy and security laws proliferate in divergent ways
or impose additional obligations, and potentially create new privacy related legal risks.
United Kingdom
In the U.K., care home services are principally regulated by the Health and Social Care Act 2008 (as amended) and other regulations. This legislation subjects service
providers to a number of legally binding “Fundamental Standards” and requires, amongst other things, that all persons carrying out “Regulated Activities” in the U.K.,
and the managers of such persons, be registered. Providers of care home services are also subject (as data controllers) to laws governing their use of personal data
(including in relation to their employees, clients and recipients of their services). These laws currently take the form of the U.K.’s Data Protection Act 2018 and the U.K.
General Data Protection Regulation (collectively “U.K. DP Laws”). U.K. DP Laws impose a significant number of obligations on controllers with the potential for fines
of up to 4% of annual worldwide turnover or £17.5 million, whichever is greater. Further, to the extent that an entity established in the U.K. or any other jurisdiction
offers goods or services to individuals in the European Economic Area, that entity may also be subject to the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation ("E.U. GDPR").
Similarly, the E.U. GDPR imposes obligations on controllers with the potential for fines of up to 4% of annual worldwide turnover or €20 million, whichever is
greater. Entities incorporated in or carrying on a business in the U.K., as well as individuals residing in the U.K., are also subject to the U.K. Bribery Act 2010. The U.K.
has national minimum wage legislation with a maximum fine for non-payment of £20,000 per worker and employers who fail to pay will be banned from being a
company director for up to 15 years. In addition, the Working Time and Holiday Pay Bill 2019-2021 is currently going through the U.K. Parliament, which makes
provision for the expiration of the Working Time Regulations 1998, provides for additional regulations governing working time and makes provisions for holiday pay
for employees.
Canada
Senior living residences in Canada are provincially regulated. Within each province, there are different categories for senior living residences that are generally based
on the level of care sought and/or required by a resident (e.g. assisted or retirement living, senior living residences, residential care, long-term care). In some of these
categories and depending on the province, residences may be government funded, or the individual residents may be eligible for a government subsidy, while other
residences are exclusively private-pay. The governing legislation and regulations vary by province, but generally the object of the laws is to set licensing requirements
and minimum standards for senior living residences, and regulate operations. These laws empower regulators in each province to take a variety of steps to ensure
compliance, conduct inspections, issue reports and generally regulate the industry.
Our operations in Canada are subject to privacy legislation, including, in certain provinces, privacy laws specifically related to personal health information. Although
the obligations of senior living residences in the various provinces differ, they all include the obligation to protect personal information. Under some of these laws,
notification to the regulator in the event of an actual or suspected privacy breach is mandatory. The powers of privacy regulators and penalties for violations of privacy
law vary according to the applicable law or are left to the courts. In September 2021, the province of Quebec adopted significant amendments to its privacy legislation,
including a new enforcement scheme with significant penalties and fines: up to CAD $10 million or 2% of global turnover (whichever is greater) for administrative
monetary penalties and up to CAD $25 million or 4% of global turnover for penal fines. The amendments will go into effect in three stages: (i) a few provisions on
September 22, 2022, (ii) most provisions on September 22, 2023 (including the new enforcement scheme), and (iii) one provision on September 23, 2024. Senior living
residences may also be subject to laws pertaining to residential tenancy, provincial and/or municipal laws applicable to fire safety, food services, zoning, occupational
health and safety, public health and the provision of community health care and funded long-term/post-acute care.
Taxation
The following summary of the taxation of the Company and the material U.S. federal income tax consequences to the holders of the equity of the Company and the
debt securities of the Company and Welltower OP (defined below) is for general information only and is not tax advice. This summary does not address all aspects of
taxation that may be relevant to certain types of holders of stock or securities (including, but not limited to, insurance companies, tax-exempt entities, financial
institutions or broker-dealers, persons holding shares of common stock as part of a hedging, integrated conversion, or constructive sale transaction or a straddle, traders
in securities that use a mark-to-market method of accounting for their securities, investors in pass-through entities and non-U.S. corporations and persons who are not
citizens or residents of the United States).
12
This summary does not discuss all of the aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that may be relevant to you in light of your particular investment or other
circumstances. In addition, this summary does not discuss any state or local income taxation or non-U.S. income taxation or other non-U.S. tax consequences. This
summary is based on current U.S. federal income tax laws. Subsequent developments in U.S. federal income tax law, including changes in law or differing
interpretations, which may be applied retroactively, could have a material effect on the U.S. federal income tax consequences of purchasing, owning and disposing of
our securities as set forth in this summary. Before you purchase our securities, you should consult your own tax advisor regarding the particular U.S. federal, state, local,
non-U.S. and other tax consequences of acquiring, owning and selling our securities.
General
Prior to the Reorganization on April 1, 2022, whereby the Company’s predecessor, which had been known as Welltower Inc. until that date (“Old Welltower”),
became a wholly owned subsidiary of WELL Merger Holdco Sub Inc. in a transaction intending to qualify as a reorganization under section 368(a)(1)(F) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). In connection with the Reorganization, Old Welltower changed its name to Welltower OP Inc., WELL Merger Holdco
Sub Inc. changed its name to Welltower Inc. and Old Welltower became a “qualified REIT subsidiary” of the Company. Effective on May 24, 2022, Welltower OP Inc.
converted from a Delaware corporation into a Delaware limited liability company named Welltower OP LLC (under both names, “Welltower OP”). Prior to the
Reorganization, Old Welltower elected to be taxed as a REIT and was organized and operated in a manner intended to qualify as a REIT. As a result of the
Reorganization, the Company is treated as a continuation of Old Welltower for U.S. federal income tax purposes and references in this summary to “the Company,”
“us,” or “we” include references to Old Welltower unless otherwise specified or clearly required by the context.
We have been organized and operated in a manner intended to qualify as a REIT and we intend to continue to operate in such a manner as to qualify as a REIT, but
there can be no assurance that we will qualify or remain qualified as a REIT. Qualification and taxation as a REIT depend upon our ability to meet a variety of
qualification tests imposed under U.S. federal income tax law with respect to our income, assets, distributions and share ownership, as discussed below under
“Qualification as a REIT.”
In any year in which we qualify as a REIT, in general, we will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on that portion of our REIT taxable income or capital gain that
is distributed to stockholders. We may, however, be subject to tax at normal corporate rates on any taxable income or capital gain not distributed. If we elect to retain
and pay income tax on our net capital gain, stockholders would be taxed on their proportionate shares of our undistributed net capital gain and would receive a
refundable credit for their shares of any taxes paid by us on such gain.
Despite qualifying as a REIT, we may be subject to U.S. federal income and excise tax as follows:
•To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net capital gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our “REIT taxable income,” as adjusted, we
will be subject to tax on the undistributed amount at regular corporate tax rates;
•If we have net income from the sale or other disposition of “foreclosure property” that is held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business
or other non-qualifying income from foreclosure property, such income will be taxed at the highest corporate rate;
•Any net income from prohibited transactions (which are, in general, sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary
course of business, other than dispositions of foreclosure property) will be subject to a 100% tax;
•If we fail to satisfy either the 75% or 95% gross income tests (as discussed below), but nonetheless maintain our qualification as a REIT because certain other
requirements are met, we will be subject to a 100% tax on an amount equal to (1) the gross income attributable to the greater of (i) 75% of our gross income
over the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 75% gross income test (discussed below) or (ii) 95% of our gross income over the amount of
qualifying gross income for purposes of the 95% gross income test (discussed below) multiplied by (2) a fraction intended to reflect our profitability;
•If we fail to distribute during each year at least the sum of (1) 85% of our REIT ordinary income for the year, (2) 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for
such year (other than capital gain that we elect to retain and pay tax on) and (3) any undistributed taxable income from preceding periods, we will be subject to
a 4% excise tax on the excess of such required distribution over amounts actually distributed; and
•We will be subject to a 100% tax on certain amounts from certain transactions involving our “taxable REIT subsidiaries” that are not conducted on an arm’s
length basis. See “Investments in Taxable REIT Subsidiaries.”
13
We have acquired assets from “C” corporations in carryover basis transactions and may do so again in the future. A “C” corporation is generally defined as a
corporation that is required to pay full corporate level U.S. federal income tax. If we recognize gain on the disposition of such assets during the five-year period
beginning on the date on which the assets were acquired by us, then, to the extent of the assets’ “built-in gain” (e.g., the excess of the fair market value of the asset over
the adjusted tax basis of the asset, in each case determined as of the beginning of the five-year period), we will be subject to tax on the gain at the highest regular
corporate rate applicable. The results described in this paragraph with respect to the recognition of built-in gain assume that the “C” corporation did not make and was
not treated as making an election to treat the built-in gain assets as sold to an unrelated party. For our assets that are subject to the built-in gains tax, the potential amount
of built-in gains tax will be an additional factor when considering a possible sale of such assets within the five-year period beginning on the date on which the assets
were acquired by us. See Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the built-in gains tax.
Qualification as a REIT
A REIT is defined as a corporation, trust or association:
(1) which is managed by one or more trustees or directors;
(2) the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced by transferable shares or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest;
(3) which would be taxable as a domestic corporation but for the U.S. federal income tax law relating to REITs;
(4) which is neither a financial institution nor an insurance company;
(5) the beneficial ownership of which is held by 100 or more persons in each taxable year of the REIT except for its first
    taxable year;
(6) not more than 50% in value of the outstanding stock of which is owned during the last half of each taxable year, excluding its first taxable year, directly,
indirectly or constructively, by or for five or fewer individuals (which includes certain entities) (the “Five or Fewer Requirement”); and
(7) which meets certain income and asset tests described below.
Conditions (1) to (4), inclusive, must be met during the entire taxable year and condition (5) must be met during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or
during a proportionate part of a taxable year of less than 12 months. For purposes of condition (6), pension funds and certain other tax-exempt entities are treated as
individuals, subject to a “look-through” exception in the case of certain pension funds.
Based on publicly available information, we believe we have satisfied the share ownership requirements set forth in (5) and (6) above. In addition, Article VI of our
by-laws provides for restrictions regarding ownership and transfer of shares. These restrictions are intended to assist us in continuing to satisfy the share ownership
requirements described in (5) and (6) above but may not ensure that we will, in all cases, be able to satisfy such requirements.
We have complied with, and will continue to comply with, tax regulatory rules to send annual letters to certain of our stockholders requesting information regarding
the actual ownership of our stock. If, despite sending the annual letters, we do not know, or after exercising reasonable diligence would not have known, whether we
failed to meet the Five or Fewer Requirement, we will be treated as having met the Five or Fewer Requirement. If we fail to comply with these tax regulatory rules, we
will be subject to a monetary penalty. If our failure to comply were due to intentional disregard of the requirement, the penalty would be increased. However, if our
failure to comply were due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect, no penalty would be imposed.
For purposes of the REIT income and asset tests our assets and income will include any asset owned and any income earned directly or indirectly through a
disregarded entity, including a “qualified REIT subsidiary,” and a proportionate share of the assets of, and any income earned through, any entity we own that is treated
as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, including Welltower OP. A corporation will qualify as a “qualified REIT subsidiary” if 100% of its stock is owned
by a REIT, and the REIT does not elect to treat the subsidiary as a taxable REIT subsidiary.
We will own substantially all of our assets and earn substantially all of our income through Welltower OP and its direct or indirect subsidiaries. Prior to the LLC
Conversion, Welltower OP was treated as a “qualified REIT subsidiary,” provided that we continue to qualify as a REIT. After the LLC Conversion, Welltower OP
became a disregarded entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes until the admission of additional regarded members, at which time Welltower OP became a regarded
entity treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
Although we intend for any partnership in which we have acquired or will acquire an interest, directly or indirectly (a “Subsidiary Partnership”), to operate in a
manner consistent with the requirements for our qualification as a REIT, we will be an indirect limited partner or non-managing member in some of the Subsidiary
Partnerships. Though we nonetheless expect that
14
all such Subsidiary Partnerships will be required to operate in a manner consistent with the requirements for our qualification as a REIT, if a Subsidiary Partnership in
which we own an interest but do not have control takes or expects to take actions that could jeopardize our status as a REIT or require us to pay tax, we may be forced to
dispose of our interest in such entity. In addition, it is possible that a Subsidiary Partnership could take an action which could cause us to fail a gross income or asset test
and that we would not become aware of such action in time for us to dispose of our interest in the Subsidiary Partnership or take other corrective action on a timely
basis. In that case, we could fail to qualify as a REIT unless we were able to qualify for a statutory REIT “savings” provision, which could require us to pay a significant
penalty tax to maintain our REIT qualification.
Income Tests  There are two separate percentage tests relating to our sources of gross income that we must satisfy each taxable year:
•At least 75% of our gross income (excluding gross income from certain sales of property held primarily for sale) generally must be directly or indirectly
derived each taxable year from “rents from real property,” dividends or other distributions on, and gain (other than gain from prohibited transactions) from the
sale or other disposition of, REIT shares, mortgages on real property, other income from investments relating to real property or certain income from qualified
temporary investments (the “75% gross income test”).
•At least 95% of our gross income (excluding gross income from certain sales of property held primarily for sale) generally must be directly or indirectly
derived each taxable year from any of the sources qualifying for the 75% gross income test and from dividends (including dividends from taxable REIT
subsidiaries) and interest (the “95% gross income test”).
Income from hedging and non-U.S. currency transactions is excluded from the 95% and 75% gross income tests if certain requirements are met but otherwise will
constitute gross income which does not qualify under the 95% or 75% gross income tests.
Rents received by us will qualify as “rents from real property” for purposes of satisfying the gross income tests for a REIT only if several conditions are met:
•The amount of rent must not be based in whole or in part on the income or profits of any person, although rents generally will not be excluded merely because
they are based on a fixed percentage or percentages of receipts or sales.
•Rents received from a tenant will not qualify as rents from real property if the REIT, or an owner of 10% or more of the REIT, directly or constructively owns
10% or more of the tenant, unless the tenant is our taxable REIT subsidiary and certain other requirements are met with respect to the real property being
rented.
•If rent attributable to personal property leased in connection with a lease of real property is greater than 15% of the total rent received under the lease, then the
portion of rent attributable to such personal property will not qualify as “rents from real property.”
•For rents to qualify as rents from real property, we generally must not furnish or render services to tenants, other than through a taxable REIT subsidiary or an
“independent contractor” from whom we derive no income, except that we may directly provide services that are usually or customarily rendered in the
geographic area in which the property is located in connection with the rental of real property for occupancy only or are not otherwise considered rendered to
the occupant for the occupant’s convenience.
•We may lease “qualified health care properties” on an arm’s-length basis to a taxable REIT subsidiary if the property is operated on behalf of such subsidiary
by a person that qualifies as an “independent contractor” and that is, or is related to a person that is, actively engaged in the trade or business of operating
health care facilities for any person unrelated to us or our taxable REIT subsidiary (such person, an “eligible independent contractor”). If this is the case, the
rent that the REIT receives from the taxable REIT subsidiary generally will be treated as “rents from real property.” A “qualified health care property” includes
any real property and any personal property that is, or is necessary or incidental to the use of, a hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate care
facility, qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility that extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients and is operated by a provider
of such services that is eligible for participation in the Medicare program with respect to such facility.
A REIT is permitted to render a de minimis amount of impermissible services to tenants of a property and still treat amounts received with respect to that property as
rent from real property. The amount received or accrued by the REIT during the taxable year for the impermissible services with respect to a property may not exceed
1% of all amounts received or accrued by the REIT directly or indirectly from the property. The amount received for any service or management operation for this
purpose shall be deemed to be not less than 150% of the direct cost of the REIT in furnishing or rendering the service or providing the management or operation.
Furthermore, impermissible services may be furnished to tenants by a taxable REIT subsidiary subject to certain conditions, which would permit us to still treat rents
received with respect to the property as rent from real property.
15
The term “interest” generally does not include any amount if the determination of the amount depends in whole or in part on the income or profits of any person,
although an amount generally will not be excluded from the term “interest” solely by reason of being based on a fixed percentage of receipts or sales or by reason of
being based on the income or profits of a debtor which derives substantially all of its income with respect to the property securing such debt from the leasing of
substantially all of such property to tenants, to the extent that the rents paid by the tenants would qualify as rents from real property if the Company earned such
amounts directly.
If we fail to satisfy one or both of the 75% or 95% gross income tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless qualify as a REIT for such year if we are eligible for
certain relief provisions provided by the Internal Revenue Code. These relief provisions generally will be available if (1) following our identification of the failure, we
file a schedule for such taxable year describing each item of our gross income, and (2) the failure to meet such tests was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful
neglect. It is not now possible to determine the circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions. If these relief provisions apply, a
100% tax is imposed on an amount equal to (1) the gross income attributable to (i) 75% of our gross income over the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of
the 75% gross income test and (ii) 95% of our gross income over the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 95% gross income test, multiplied by (2) a
fraction intended to reflect our profitability. The Secretary of the Treasury is given broad authority to determine whether particular items of income or gain qualify under
the 75% and 95% gross income tests and to exclude items from the measure of gross income for such purposes.
Asset Tests  Within 30 days after the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must also satisfy several tests relating to the nature and diversification of our assets
determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. At least 75% of the value of our total assets must be represented by real estate assets (including
interests in real property, interests in mortgages on real property or on interests in real property, shares in other REITs and debt instruments issued by publicly offered
REITs), cash, cash items (including receivables arising in the ordinary course of our operation), government securities and qualified temporary investments (the “75%
asset test”). Although the remaining 25% of our assets generally may be invested without restriction, we are prohibited from owning securities representing more than
10% of either the vote (the “10% vote test”) or value (the “10% value test”) of the outstanding securities of any issuer other than another REIT or a taxable REIT
subsidiary. Further, no more than 20% of our total assets may be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries (the “20% asset test”) and no more
than 5% of the value of our total assets may be represented by securities of any non-governmental issuer other than a qualified REIT subsidiary (the “5% asset test”),
another REIT or a taxable REIT subsidiary. Each of the 10% vote test, the 10% value test and the 20% and 5% asset tests must be satisfied at the end of each quarter.
There are special rules which provide relief if the value-related tests are not satisfied due to changes in the value of the assets of a REIT.
Certain items are excluded from the 10% value test, including: (1) straight debt securities meeting certain requirements; (2) any loan to an individual or an estate; (3)
any rental agreement described in Section 467 of the Internal Revenue Code, other than with a “related person”; (4) any obligation to pay rents from real property; (5)
certain securities issued by a state or any subdivision thereof, the District of Columbia, a non-U.S. government, or any political subdivision thereof, or the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; (6) any security issued by a REIT; and (7) any other arrangement that, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, is excepted from
the definition of security (“10% Value Excluded Securities”). If a REIT, or its taxable REIT subsidiary, holds (1) straight debt securities of a corporate or partnership
issuer and (2) securities of such issuer that are not 10% Value Excluded Securities and have an aggregate value greater than 1% of such issuer’s outstanding securities,
the straight debt securities will be included in the 10% value test.
A REIT’s interest as a partner in a partnership is not treated as a security for purposes of applying the 10% value test to securities issued by the partnership. Further,
any debt instrument issued by a partnership that is not a 10% Value Excluded Security will not be a security for purposes of applying the 10% value test (1) to the extent
of the REIT’s interest as a partner in the partnership or (2) if at least 75% of the partnership’s gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) would
qualify for the 75% gross income test. For purposes of the 10% value test, a REIT’s interest in a partnership’s assets is determined by the REIT’s proportionate interest
in any securities issued by the partnership (other than the excluded securities described in the preceding paragraph).
If a REIT or its “qualified business unit” uses a non-U.S. currency as its functional currency, the term “cash” includes such non-U.S. currency, but only to the extent
such non-U.S. currency is (i) held for use in the normal course of the activities of the REIT or “qualified business unit” which give rise to items of income or gain that
are included in the 95% and 75% gross income tests or are directly related to acquiring or holding assets qualifying under the 75% asset test, and (ii) not held in
connection with dealing or engaging in substantial and regular trading in securities.
With respect to corrections of failures as to violations of the 10% vote test, the 10% value test or the 5% asset test, a REIT may avoid disqualification as a REIT by
disposing of sufficient assets to cure a violation due to the ownership of assets that do not exceed the lesser of 1% of the REIT’s assets at the end of the relevant quarter
or $10,000,000, provided that the disposition occurs within six months following the last day of the quarter in which the REIT first identified the violation. For
violations of any of the REIT asset tests due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect that exceed the thresholds described in the preceding
16
sentence, a REIT can avoid disqualification as a REIT after the close of a taxable quarter by taking certain steps, including disposition of sufficient assets within the six
month period described above to meet the applicable asset test, paying a tax equal to the greater of $50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net income
generated by the non-qualifying assets during the period of time that the assets were held as non-qualifying assets and filing a schedule with the Internal Revenue
Service that describes the non-qualifying assets.
Investments in Taxable REIT Subsidiaries REITs may own more than 10% of the voting power and value of securities in taxable REIT subsidiaries. Unlike a qualified
REIT subsidiary, other disregarded entity or partnership, the income and assets of a taxable REIT subsidiary are not attributable to the REIT for purposes of satisfying
the income and asset ownership requirements applicable to REIT qualification. We and any taxable corporate entity in which we own an interest, directly or indirectly,
are allowed to jointly elect to treat such entity as a “taxable REIT subsidiary.”
Certain of our subsidiaries have elected or will elect taxable REIT subsidiary status. Taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to full corporate level U.S. federal taxation
on their earnings but are permitted to engage in certain types of activities that cannot be performed directly by REITs without jeopardizing the REIT status of their
parent REIT. The taxes to which our taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject will reduce the cash available for such taxable REIT subsidiaries to distribute as dividends to
us.
The Internal Revenue Service may redetermine amounts from transactions between a REIT and its taxable REIT subsidiary where there is a lack of arm’s-length
dealing between the parties. Any taxable income allocated to, or deductible expenses allocated away, from a taxable REIT subsidiary would increase its tax liability.
Further, certain amounts from certain transactions involving a REIT and its taxable REIT subsidiaries could be subject to a 100% tax if not conducted on an arm’s length
basis.
A taxable REIT subsidiary does not include any corporation that directly or indirectly operates or manages a lodging facility or a health care facility unless such
facility is operated on behalf of such subsidiary by a person that is an independent contractor and certain other requirements are met. The failure of a subsidiary of ours
to qualify as a taxable REIT subsidiary as a result of operating a lodging facility or a health care facility could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to
comply with the REIT income and asset tests, and thus could impair the Company’s ability to qualify as a REIT unless the Company could avail itself of certain relief
provisions under the Code.
For tax years beginning after December 31, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (“IRA”) imposes among other things, a 15% Corporate Alternative Minimum
Tax (“Corporate AMT”) on certain U.S. corporations with average adjusted financial statement income in excess of $1 billion. Although, by its terms, the Corporate
AMT is not applicable to REITs, it is not certain whether or how the Corporate AMT would apply to our TRSs.
In December 2022, Treasury issued Notice 2023-7, indicating its intention to propose regulations and provide other guidance regarding the Corporate AMT and
issuing certain interim rules on which taxpayers may rely. Until further regulations and guidance from the IRS and Treasury are released, the impact of the Corporate
AMT on our TRSs is uncertain and it is possible that our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be subject to material U.S. federal income taxes under the Corporate AMT.
Investments in REIT Subsidiaries The Company, through Welltower OP, owns and may acquire direct or indirect interests in one or more entities that have elected or
will elect to be taxed as REITs under the Code (each, a “Subsidiary REIT”). A Subsidiary REIT is subject to the various REIT qualification requirements and other
limitations described herein that are applicable to the Company. If a Subsidiary REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, then (i) that Subsidiary REIT would become
subject to U.S. federal income tax and (ii) the Subsidiary REIT’s failure to qualify could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to comply with the REIT
income and asset tests, and thus could impair the Company’s ability to qualify as a REIT unless the Company could avail itself of certain relief provisions under the
Code.
Annual Distribution Requirements In order to avoid being taxed as a regular corporation, we are required to make distributions (other than capital gain distributions)
to our stockholders which qualify for the dividends paid deduction in an amount at least equal to (1) the sum of (i) 90% of our “REIT taxable income” (computed
without regard to the dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain) and (ii) 90% of the after-tax net income, if any, from foreclosure property, minus (2) a portion of
certain items of non-cash income. These distributions must be paid in the taxable year to which they relate, or in the following taxable year if declared before we timely
file our tax return for that year and if paid on or before the first regular distribution payment after such declaration. Prior to 2014, with respect to all REITs the amount
distributed could not be preferential. This means that every stockholder of the class of stock to which a distribution is made must be treated the same as every other
stockholder of that class, and no class of stock may be treated otherwise than in accordance with its dividend rights as a class (the “preferential dividend rule”). The
preferential dividend rule no longer applies to publicly offered REITs, however, the rule is still applicable to REITs which are not publicly offered, which would include
several of our Subsidiary REITs. To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net capital gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our “REIT taxable
income,” as adjusted, we will be subject to tax on the undistributed amount at regular corporate tax rates. As discussed above, we may be subject to an excise tax if we
fail to meet certain other distribution requirements. Although we intend to make timely distributions sufficient to satisfy these annual distribution requirements for
subsequent years, economic, market, legal, tax or other factors could limit our ability to meet those requirements.
17
It is also possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement, or to distribute such greater
amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, due to, among other things, (1) timing differences between (i) cash receipts and cash expenditures and
(ii) the inclusion of income and deduction of expenses in arriving at our taxable income, or (2) the payment of expenditures that may not be deductible to us. In the
event that timing differences occur, we may find it necessary to arrange for borrowings or, if possible, pay dividends in the form of taxable stock dividends in order to
meet the distribution requirement.
Under certain circumstances, including in the event of a deficiency determined by the Internal Revenue Service, we may be able to rectify a resulting failure to meet
the distribution requirement for a year by paying “deficiency dividends” to stockholders in a later year, which may be included in our deduction for distributions paid for
the earlier year. Thus, we may be able to avoid being disqualified as a REIT and/or taxed on amounts distributed as deficiency dividends; however, we will be required
to pay applicable penalties and interest based upon the amount of any deduction taken for deficiency dividend distributions.
Failure to Qualify as a REIT If we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at
regular corporate rates. Distributions to stockholders in any year in which we fail to qualify as a REIT will not be deductible by us. As a result, we anticipate that our
failure to qualify as a REIT would reduce the cash available for distribution by us to our stockholders. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be required
to distribute any amounts to our stockholders, and all distributions to stockholders will be taxable as regular corporate dividends to the extent of our current and
accumulated earnings and profits. In such event, corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends-received deduction. In addition, non-corporate stockholders,
including individuals, may be eligible for the preferential tax rates on qualified dividend income. Non-corporate stockholders, including individuals, generally may
deduct up to 20% of dividends from a REIT, other than capital gain dividends and dividends treated as qualified dividend income, for taxable years beginning before
January 1, 2026 for purposes of determining their U.S. federal income tax, subject to certain holding period requirements and other limitations. If we fail to qualify as a
REIT, such stockholders may not claim this deduction with respect to dividends paid by us. Unless entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, we also will be
disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. It is not possible to state whether in all
circumstances we would be entitled to statutory relief. Failure to qualify for even one year could result in our need to incur indebtedness or liquidate investments in
order to pay potentially significant resulting tax liabilities.
In addition to the relief described above under “Income Tests” and “Asset Tests,” statutory relief is available in the event that we violate a provision of the Internal
Revenue Code that would result in our failure to qualify as a REIT if: (1) the violation is due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect; (2) we pay a penalty of
$50,000 for each failure to satisfy the provision; and (3) the violation does not include a violation described under “Income Tests” or “Asset Tests” above. It is not now
possible to determine the circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions.
Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences to Holders of Our Stock and the Debt Securities of the Company and Welltower OP
The following discussion is a summary of the material U.S. federal income tax consequences to you of acquiring, owning and disposing of stock of the Company or
debt securities of the Company or Welltower OP. This discussion is limited to holders who hold stock of the Company or debt securities of the Company or Welltower
OP as “capital assets” within the meaning of Section 1221 of the Code (generally, property held for investment). This discussion does not address all U.S. federal
income tax consequences relevant to a holder’s particular circumstances, including the alternative minimum tax. In addition, except where specifically noted, it does not
address consequences relevant to holders subject to special rules, including, without limitation:
•U.S. expatriates and former citizens or long-term residents of the United States;
•U.S. holders (as defined below) whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar;
•persons holding stock or debt securities as part of a hedge, straddle or other risk reduction strategy or as part of a conversion transaction or other integrated
investment;
•banks, insurance companies, and other financial institutions;
•REITs or regulated investment companies;
•brokers, dealers or traders in securities;
•“controlled foreign corporations,” “passive foreign investment companies,” and corporations that accumulate earnings to avoid U.S. federal income tax;
•S corporations, partnerships or other entities or arrangements treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes (and investors therein);
•tax-exempt organizations or governmental organizations;
18
•persons subject to special tax accounting rules as a result of any item of gross income with respect to stock or debt securities being taken into account in an
applicable financial statement;
•persons deemed to sell stock or debt securities under the constructive sale provisions of the Code; and
•persons who hold or receive our stock pursuant to the exercise of any employee stock option or otherwise as compensation.
THIS DISCUSSION IS FOR INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY AND IS NOT INTENDED AS TAX ADVICE. INVESTORS SHOULD CONSULT
THEIR TAX ADVISORS WITH RESPECT TO THE APPLICATION OF THE U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX LAWS TO THEIR PARTICULAR
SITUATIONS AS WELL AS ANY TAX CONSEQUENCES OF THE ACQUISITION, OWNERSHIP AND DISPOSITION OF OUR STOCK OR DEBT
SECURITIES ARISING UNDER OTHER U.S. FEDERAL TAX LAWS (INCLUDING ESTATE AND GIFT TAX LAWS), UNDER THE LAWS OF ANY
STATE, LOCAL OR NON-U.S. TAXING JURISDICTION OR UNDER ANY APPLICABLE TAX TREATY.
For purposes of this discussion, a “U.S. holder” is a beneficial owner of stock of the Company or debt securities of the Company or Welltower OP that, for U.S.
federal income tax purposes, is or is treated as:
•an individual who is a citizen or resident of the United States;
•an entity classified as a corporation created or organized under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia;
•an estate the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income tax regardless of its source; or
•a trust that (1) is subject to the primary supervision of a U.S. court and the control of one or more “United States persons” (within the meaning of Section
7701(a)(30) of the Code) or (2) has a valid election in effect to be treated as a United States person for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
For purposes of this discussion, a “non-U.S. holder” is any beneficial owner of our stock or debt securities that is neither a U.S. holder nor an entity treated as a
partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
If an entity treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes holds our stock or debt securities, the tax treatment of a partner in the partnership will depend
on the status of the partner, the activities of the partnership and certain determinations made at the partner level. Accordingly, partnerships holding stock of the Company
or debt securities of the Company or Welltower OP and the partners in such partnerships should consult their tax advisors regarding the U.S. federal income tax
consequences to them.
Taxation of Taxable U.S. Holders of Our Stock
Distributions Generally Distributions out of our current or accumulated earnings and profits will be treated as dividends and, other than with respect to capital gain
dividends and certain amounts which have previously been subject to corporate level tax, as discussed below, will be taxable to our taxable U.S. holders as ordinary
income when actually or constructively received. See “Tax Rates” below. As long as we qualify as a REIT, these distributions will not be eligible for the dividends-
received deduction in the case of U.S. holders that are corporations or, except to the extent described in “Tax Rates” below, the preferential rates on qualified dividend
income applicable to non-corporate U.S. holders, including individuals. For purposes of determining whether distributions to holders of our stock are out of our current
or accumulated earnings and profits, our earnings and profits will be allocated first to our outstanding preferred stock, if any, and then to our outstanding common stock.
To the extent that we make distributions on our stock in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits allocable to such stock, these distributions will be
treated first as a tax-free return of capital to a U.S. holder to the extent of the U.S. holder’s adjusted tax basis in such shares of stock. This treatment will reduce the U.S.
holder’s adjusted tax basis in such shares of stock by such amount, but not below zero. Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits and
in excess of a U.S. holder’s adjusted tax basis in its shares will be taxable as capital gain. Such gain will be taxable as long-term capital gain if the shares have been held
for more than one year. Dividends we declare in October, November, or December of any year and which are payable to a holder of record on a specified date in any of
these months will be treated as both paid by us and received by the holder on December 31 of that year, provided we actually pay the dividend on or before January 31
of the following year. U.S. holders may not include in their own income tax returns any of our net operating losses or capital losses.
U.S. holders that receive taxable stock distributions, including distributions partially payable in our common stock and partially payable in cash, would be required to
include the full amount of the distribution (i.e., the cash and the stock portion) as a dividend (subject to limited exceptions) to the extent of our current and accumulated
earnings and profits for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as described above. The amount of any distribution payable in our common stock generally is equal to the
amount of cash that could have been received instead of the common stock. Depending on the circumstances of a U.S. holder, the tax on the distribution may exceed the
amount of the distribution received in cash, in which case such U.S. holder would
19
have to pay the tax using cash from other sources. If a U.S. holder sells the common stock it received in connection with a taxable stock distribution in order to pay this
tax and the proceeds of such sale are less than the amount required to be included in income with respect to the stock portion of the distribution, such U.S. holder could
have a capital loss with respect to the stock sale that could not be used to offset such income. A U.S. holder that receives common stock pursuant to such distribution
generally has a tax basis in such common stock equal to the amount of cash that could have been received instead of such common stock as described above, and has a
holding period in such common stock that begins on the day immediately following the payment date for the distribution.
Capital Gain Dividends Dividends that we properly designate as capital gain dividends will be taxable to our taxable U.S. holders as a gain from the sale or
disposition of a capital asset held for more than one year, to the extent that such gain does not exceed our actual net capital gain for the taxable year. U.S. holders that
are corporations may, however, be required to treat up to 20% of certain capital gain dividends as ordinary income.
Retention of Net Capital Gains We may elect to retain, rather than distribute as a capital gain dividend, all or a portion of our net capital gains. If we make this
election, we would pay tax on our retained net capital gains. In addition, to the extent we so elect, our earnings and profits (determined for U.S. federal income tax
purposes) would be adjusted accordingly, and a U.S. holder generally would:
•include its pro rata share of our undistributed capital gain in computing its long-term capital gains in its U.S. federal income tax return for its taxable year in
which the last day of our taxable year falls, subject to certain limitations as to the amount that is includable;
•be deemed to have paid its share of the capital gains tax imposed on us on the designated amounts included in the U.S. holder’s income as long-term capital
gain;
•receive a credit or refund for the amount of tax deemed paid by it; and
•increase the adjusted tax basis of its stock by the difference between the amount of includable gains and the tax deemed to have been paid by it.
In addition, a U.S. holder that is a corporation is required to appropriately adjust its earnings and profits for the retained capital gains in accordance with Treasury
Regulations. These Treasury Regulations have not yet been promulgated so the appropriate method for making such adjustment is unclear.
Passive Activity Losses and Investment Interest Limitations Distributions we make and gain arising from the sale or exchange of our stock by a U.S. holder will not be
treated as passive activity income. As a result, U.S. holders generally will not be able to apply any “passive losses” against this income or gain. A U.S. holder generally
may elect to treat capital gain dividends, capital gains from the disposition of our stock and income designated as qualified dividend income, as described in “Tax Rates”
below, as investment income for purposes of computing the investment interest limitation, but in such case, the holder will be taxed at ordinary income rates on such
amount. Other distributions made by us, to the extent they do not constitute a return of capital, generally will be treated as investment income for purposes of computing
the investment interest limitation.
Dispositions of Our Stock Except as described below under “Redemption or Repurchase by Us,” if a U.S. holder sells or disposes of shares of our stock, it will
recognize gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes in an amount equal to the difference between the amount of cash and the fair market value of any property
received on the sale or other disposition of the shares and the holder’s adjusted tax basis in the shares. This gain or loss, except as provided below, will be long-term
capital gain or loss if the holder has held such stock for more than one year. However, if a U.S. holder recognizes a loss upon the sale or other disposition of stock that it
has held for six months or less, after applying certain holding period rules, the loss recognized will be treated as a long-term capital loss to the extent the U.S. holder
received distributions from us which were required to be treated as long-term capital gains. The deductibility of capital losses is subject to limitations.
Redemption or Repurchase by Us A redemption or repurchase of shares of our stock will be treated under Section 302 of the Code as a distribution (and taxable as a
dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits as described above under “Distributions Generally”) unless the redemption or repurchase
satisfies one of the tests set forth in Section 302(b) of the Code and is therefore treated as a sale or exchange of the redeemed or repurchased shares. The redemption or
repurchase generally will be treated as a sale or exchange if it:
•is “substantially disproportionate” with respect to the U.S. holder,
•results in a “complete redemption” of the U.S. holder’s stock interest in us, or
•is “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” with respect to the U.S. holder,
all within the meaning of Section 302(b) of the Code.
In determining whether any of these tests has been met, shares of our stock, including common stock and other equity interests in us, considered to be owned by the
U.S. holder by reason of certain constructive ownership rules set forth in the Code, as well as shares of our stock actually owned by the U.S. holder, generally must be
taken into account. Because the determination as to whether any of the alternative tests of Section 302(b) of the Code will be satisfied with respect to the U.S. holder
depends upon the facts and circumstances at the time that the determination must be made, U.S. holders are advised to consult their tax advisors to determine such tax
treatment.
20
If a redemption or repurchase of shares of our stock is treated as a distribution, the amount of the distribution will be measured by the amount of cash and the fair
market value of any property received. See “Distributions Generally.” A U.S. holder’s adjusted tax basis in the redeemed or repurchased shares generally will be
transferred to the holder’s remaining shares of our stock, if any. If a U.S. holder owns no other shares of our stock, under certain circumstances, such basis may be
transferred to a related person or it may be lost entirely. Prospective investors should consult their tax advisors regarding the U.S. federal income tax consequences of a
redemption or repurchase of our stock.
If a redemption or repurchase of shares of our stock is not treated as a distribution, it will be treated as a taxable sale or exchange in the manner described under
“Dispositions of Our Stock.”
Tax Rates Currently, the maximum tax rate for non-corporate taxpayers for (1) long-term capital gains, including certain “capital gain dividends,” generally is 20%
(although depending on the characteristics of the assets which produced these gains and on designations which we may make, certain capital gain dividends may be
taxed at a 25% rate) and (2) “qualified dividend income” generally is 20%. In general, dividends payable by REITs are not eligible for the reduced tax rate applicable to
qualified dividend income, except to the extent that certain holding period requirements have been met and the REIT’s dividends are attributable to dividends received
from taxable corporations (such as its taxable REIT subsidiaries) or to income that was subject to tax at the corporate/REIT level (for example, if the REIT distributed
taxable income that it retained and paid tax on in the prior taxable year). Capital gain dividends will only be eligible for the rates described above to the extent that they
are properly designated by us as “capital gain dividends.” As mentioned above, U.S. holders that are corporations may be required to treat up to 20% of some capital
gain dividends as ordinary income. In addition, non-corporate U.S. holders, including individuals, generally may deduct up to 20% of dividends from a REIT, other than
capital gain dividends and dividends treated as qualified dividend income, for taxable years beginning before January 1, 2026 for purposes of determining their U.S.
federal income tax (but not for purposes of the 3.8% Medicare tax), subject to certain holding period requirements and other limitations.
Taxation of Tax-Exempt U.S. Holders of Our Stock
Dividend income from us and gain arising upon a sale of shares of our stock generally should not be unrelated business taxable income (“UBTI”) to a tax-exempt U.S.
holder, except as described below. This income or gain will be UBTI, however, to the extent a tax-exempt U.S. holder holds its shares as “debt-financed property”
within the meaning of the Code. Generally, “debt-financed property” is property the acquisition or holding of which was financed through a borrowing by the tax-
exempt holder.
For tax-exempt U.S. holders that are social clubs, voluntary employee benefit associations or supplemental unemployment benefit trusts exempt from U.S. federal
income taxation under Sections 501(c)(7), (c)(9) or (c)(17) of the Code, respectively, income from an investment in our shares will constitute UBTI unless the
organization is able to properly claim a deduction for amounts set aside or placed in reserve for specific purposes so as to offset the income generated by its investment
in our shares. These prospective investors should consult their tax advisors concerning these “set aside” and reserve requirements.
Notwithstanding the above, however, a portion of the dividends paid by a “pension-held REIT” may be treated as UBTI as to certain trusts that hold more than 10%,
by value, of the interests in the REIT. A REIT will not be a “pension-held REIT” if it is able to satisfy the “not closely held” requirement without relying on the “look-
through” exception with respect to certain trusts or if such REIT is not “predominantly held” by “qualified trusts.” As a result of restrictions on ownership and transfer
of our stock contained in our charter, we do not expect to be classified as a “pension-held REIT,” and as a result, the tax treatment described above should be
inapplicable to our holders. However, because our common stock is (and, we anticipate, will continue to be) publicly traded, we cannot guarantee that this will always
be the case.
Taxation of Non-U.S. Holders of Our Stock
The following discussion addresses the rules governing U.S. federal income taxation of the acquisition, ownership and disposition of our stock by non-U.S. holders.
These rules are complex, and no attempt is made herein to provide more than a brief summary of such rules. Accordingly, the discussion does not address all aspects of
U.S. federal income taxation and does not address other federal, state, local or non-U.S. tax consequences that may be relevant to a non-U.S. holder in light of its
particular circumstances. We urge non-U.S. holders to consult their tax advisors to determine the impact of U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. income and other tax
laws and any applicable tax treaty on the acquisition, ownership and disposition of shares of our stock, including any reporting requirements.
Distributions Generally Distributions (including any taxable stock distributions) that are neither attributable to gains from sales or exchanges by us of United States
real property interests (“USRPIs”) nor designated by us as capital gain dividends (except as described below) will be treated as dividends of ordinary income to the
extent that they are made out of our current or accumulated earnings and profits. Such distributions ordinarily will be subject to withholding of U.S. federal income tax
at a 30% rate or such lower rate as may be specified by an applicable income tax treaty, unless the distributions are treated as effectively connected with the conduct by
the non-U.S. holder of a trade or business within the United States (and, if required by an applicable income tax treaty, the non-U.S. holder maintains a permanent
establishment in the United States to which such
21
dividends are attributable). Under certain treaties, however, lower withholding rates generally applicable to dividends do not apply to dividends from a REIT. Certain
certification and disclosure requirements must be satisfied for a non-U.S. holder to be exempt from withholding under the effectively connected income exemption.
Dividends that are treated as effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business generally will not be subject to withholding but will be subject to U.S. federal income
tax on a net basis in the same manner as dividends paid to U.S. holders are subject to U.S. federal income tax. Any such dividends received by a non-U.S. holder that is
a corporation may also be subject to an additional branch profits tax at a 30% rate (applicable after deducting U.S. federal income taxes paid on such effectively
connected income) or such lower rate as may be specified by an applicable income tax treaty.
Except as otherwise provided below, we expect to withhold U.S. federal income tax at the rate of 30% on any distributions made to a non-U.S. holder unless:
(1) a lower treaty rate applies and the non-U.S. holder furnishes an Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN or W-8BEN-E (or other applicable documentation)
evidencing eligibility for that reduced treaty rate; or
(2) the non-U.S. holder furnishes an Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI (or other applicable documentation) claiming that the distribution is income effectively
connected with the non-U.S. holder’s trade or business.
Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits will not be taxable to a non-U.S. holder to the extent that such distributions do not exceed
the adjusted tax basis of the holder’s stock, but rather will reduce the adjusted tax basis of such stock. To the extent that such distributions exceed the non-U.S. holder’s
adjusted tax basis in such stock, they generally will give rise to gain from the sale or exchange of such stock, the tax treatment of which is described below. However,
such excess distributions may be treated as dividend income for certain non-U.S. holders. For withholding purposes, we expect to treat all distributions as made out of
our current or accumulated earnings and profits. However, amounts withheld may be refundable if it is subsequently determined that the distribution was, in fact, in
excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, provided that certain conditions are met.
Capital Gain Dividends and Distributions Attributable to a Sale or Exchange of United States Real Property Interests Distributions to a non-U.S. holder that we
properly designate as capital gain dividends, other than those arising from the disposition of a USRPI, generally should not be subject to U.S. federal income taxation,
unless:
(1) the investment in our stock is treated as effectively connected with the conduct by the non-U.S. holder of a trade or business within the United States (and, if
required by an applicable income tax treaty, the non-U.S. holder maintains a permanent establishment in the United States to which such dividends are attributable), in
which case the non-U.S. holder will be subject to the same treatment as U.S. holders with respect to such gain, except that a non-U.S. holder that is a corporation may
also be subject to a branch profits tax of up to 30%, as discussed above; or
(2) the non-U.S. holder is a nonresident alien individual who is present in the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year and certain other conditions
are met, in which case the non-U.S. holder will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at a rate of 30% on the non-U.S. holder’s capital gains (or such lower rate specified
by an applicable income tax treaty), which may be offset by U.S. source capital losses of such non-U.S. holder (even though the individual is not considered a resident
of the United States), provided the non-U.S. holder has timely filed U.S. federal income tax returns with respect to such losses.
Pursuant to the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act, which is referred to as “FIRPTA,” distributions to a non-U.S. holder that are attributable to gain from
sales or exchanges by us of USRPIs, whether or not designated as capital gain dividends, will cause the non-U.S. holder to be treated as recognizing such gain as income
effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business. Non-U.S. holders generally would be taxed at the regular rates applicable to U.S. holders, subject to any applicable
alternative minimum tax and a special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals. We also will be required to withhold and to remit to the
Internal Revenue Service 21% of any distribution to non-U.S. holders attributable to gain from sales or exchanges by us of USRPIs. Distributions subject to FIRPTA
may also be subject to a 30% branch profits tax in the hands of a non-U.S. holder that is a corporation. The amount withheld is creditable against the non-U.S. holder’s
U.S. federal income tax liability. However, any distribution with respect to any class of stock that is “regularly traded,” as defined by applicable Treasury Regulations,
on an established securities market located in the United States is not subject to FIRPTA, and therefore, not subject to the 21% U.S. withholding tax described above, if
the non-U.S. holder did not own more than 10% of such class of stock at any time during the one-year period ending on the date of the distribution. Instead, such
distributions generally will be treated as ordinary dividend distributions and subject to withholding in the manner described above with respect to ordinary dividends.
Furthermore, distributions to “qualified foreign pension funds” or entities all of the interests of which are held by “qualified pension funds” are exempt from FIRPTA.
Non-U.S. holders should consult their tax advisors regarding the application of these rules.
Retention of Net Capital Gains Although the law is not clear on the matter, it appears that amounts we designate as retained net capital gains in respect of our stock
should be treated with respect to non-U.S. holders as actual distributions of capital gain dividends. Under this approach, the non-U.S. holders may be able to offset as a
credit against their U.S. federal income tax liability their proportionate share of the tax paid by us on such retained net capital gains and to receive from the Internal
22
Revenue Service a refund to the extent their proportionate share of such tax paid by us exceeds their actual U.S. federal income tax liability. If we were to designate any
portion of our net capital gain as retained net capital gain, non-U.S. holders should consult their tax advisors regarding the taxation of such retained net capital gain.
Sale of Our Stock Except as described below under “Redemption or Repurchase by Us,” gain realized by a non-U.S. holder upon the sale, exchange or other taxable
disposition of our stock generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax unless such stock constitutes a USRPI. In general, stock of a domestic corporation that is
a “United States real property holding corporation,” or USRPHC, will constitute a USRPI. We believe that we are a USRPHC. Our stock will not, however, constitute a
USRPI so long as we are a “domestically controlled qualified investment entity.” A “domestically controlled qualified investment entity” includes a REIT in which at all
times during a five-year testing period less than 50% in value of its stock is held directly or indirectly by non-United States persons, subject to certain rules. For
purposes of determining whether a REIT is a “domestically controlled qualified investment entity,” a person who at all applicable times holds less than 5% of a class of
stock that is “regularly traded” is treated as a United States person unless the REIT has actual knowledge that such person is not a United States person. Because our
common stock is (and, we anticipate, will continue to be) publicly traded, no assurance can be given that we are or will continue to be a “domestically controlled
qualified investment entity.”
Even if we do not qualify as a “domestically controlled qualified investment entity” at the time a non-U.S. holder sells our stock, gain realized from the sale or other
taxable disposition by a non-U.S. holder of such stock would not be subject to U.S. federal income tax under FIRPTA as a sale of a USRPI if:
(1) such class of stock is “regularly traded,” as defined by applicable Treasury Regulations, on an established securities market such as the New York Stock Exchange;
and
(2) such non-U.S. holder owned, actually and constructively, 10% or less of such class of stock throughout the shorter of the five-year period ending on the date of the
sale or other taxable disposition or the non-U.S. holder’s holding period.
In addition, dispositions of our stock by “qualified foreign pension funds” or entities all of the interests of which are held by “qualified foreign pension funds” are
exempt from FIRPTA. Non-U.S. holders should consult their tax advisors regarding the application of these rules.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, gain from the sale, exchange or other taxable disposition of our stock not otherwise subject to FIRPTA will be taxable to a non-U.S.
holder if either (a) the investment in our stock is treated as effectively connected with the conduct by the non-U.S. holder of a trade or business within the United States
(and, if required by an applicable income tax treaty, the non-U.S. holder maintains a permanent establishment in the United States to which such gain is attributable), in
which case the non-U.S. holder will be subject to the same treatment as U.S. holders with respect to such gain, except that a non-U.S. holder that is a corporation may
also be subject to the 30% branch profits tax (or such lower rate as may be specified by an applicable income tax treaty) on such gain, as adjusted for certain items, or
(b) the non-U.S. holder is a nonresident alien individual who is present in the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year and certain other conditions are
met, in which case the non-U.S. holder will be subject to a 30% tax on the non-U.S. holder’s capital gains (or such lower rate specified by an applicable income tax
treaty), which may be offset by U.S. source capital losses of the non-U.S. holder (even though the individual is not considered a resident of the United States), provided
the non-U.S. holder has timely filed U.S. federal income tax returns with respect to such losses. In addition, even if we are a domestically controlled qualified
investment entity, upon disposition of our stock, a non-U.S. holder may be treated as having gain from the sale or other taxable disposition of a USRPI if the non-U.S.
holder (1) disposes of such stock within a 30-day period preceding the ex-dividend date of a distribution, any portion of which, but for the disposition, would have been
treated as gain from the sale or exchange of a USRPI and (2) acquires, or enters into a contract or option to acquire, or is deemed to acquire, other shares of that stock
during the 61-day period beginning with the first day of the 30-day period described in clause (1), unless such class of stock is “regularly traded” and the non-U.S.
holder did not own more than 10% of such class of stock at any time during the one-year period ending on the date of the distribution described in clause (1).
If gain on the sale, exchange or other taxable disposition of our stock were subject to taxation under FIRPTA or otherwise as a result of being effectively connected
with the conduct by the non-U.S. holder of a trade or business within the United States, the non-U.S. holder would be required to file a U.S. federal income tax return
and would be subject to regular U.S. federal income tax with respect to such gain in the same manner as a taxable U.S. holder (subject to any applicable alternative
minimum tax and a special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals). In addition, if the sale, exchange or other taxable disposition of our
stock were subject to taxation under FIRPTA, and if shares of the applicable class of our stock were not “regularly traded” on an established securities market, the
purchaser of such stock generally would be required to withhold and remit to the Internal Revenue Service 15% of the purchase price.
Redemption or Repurchase by Us A redemption or repurchase of shares of our stock will be treated under Section 302 of the Code as a distribution (and taxable as a
dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits) unless the redemption or repurchase satisfies one of the tests set forth in Section 302(b) of
the Code and is therefore treated as a sale or exchange of the redeemed or repurchased shares. See “Redemption or Repurchase by Us” under “Taxation of Taxable U.S.
Holders of Our Stock” above. Qualified shareholders and their owners may be subject to different rules, and should consult
23
their tax advisors regarding the application of such rules. If the redemption or repurchase of shares is treated as a distribution, the amount of the distribution will be
measured by the amount of cash and the fair market value of any property received. See “Distributions Generally” above. If the redemption or repurchase of shares is
not treated as a distribution, it will be treated as a taxable sale or exchange in the manner described above under “- Sale of Our Stock.”
Taxation of Holders of Debt Securities of the Company or Welltower OP
The following summary describes the material U.S. federal income tax consequences of acquiring, owning and disposing of debt securities of the Company or
Welltower OP. This discussion assumes the debt securities will be issued with less than a statutory de minimis amount of original issue discount for U.S. federal income
tax purposes. In addition, this discussion is limited to persons purchasing the debt securities for cash at original issue and at their original “issue price” within the
meaning of Section 1273 of the Code (i.e., the first price at which a substantial amount of the debt securities is sold to the public for cash).
U.S. Holders
Payments of Interest. Interest on a debt security generally will be taxable to a U.S. holder as ordinary income at the time such interest is received or accrued, in
accordance with such U.S. holder’s method of accounting for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
Sale or Other Taxable Disposition A U.S. holder will recognize gain or loss on the sale, exchange, redemption, retirement or other taxable disposition of a debt
security. The amount of such gain or loss generally will be equal to the difference between the amount received for the debt security in cash or other property valued at
fair market value (less amounts attributable to any accrued but unpaid interest, which will be taxable as interest to the extent not previously included in income) and the
U.S. holder’s adjusted tax basis in the debt security. A U.S. holder’s adjusted tax basis in a debt security generally will be equal to the amount the U.S. holder paid for
the debt security. Any gain or loss generally will be capital gain or loss, and will be long-term capital gain or loss if the U.S. holder has held the debt security for more
than one year at the time of such sale or other taxable disposition. Otherwise, such gain or loss will be short-term capital gain or loss. Long-term capital gains
recognized by certain non-corporate U.S. holders, including individuals, generally will be taxable at reduced rates. The deductibility of capital losses is subject to
limitations.
Non-U.S. Holders
Payments of Interest. Interest paid on a debt security to a non-U.S. holder that is not effectively connected with the non-U.S. holder’s conduct of a trade or business
within the United States generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax or withholding, provided that:
•the non-U.S. holder does not, actually or constructively, own 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of our voting stock;
•the non-U.S. holder is not a controlled foreign corporation related to us through actual or constructive stock ownership; and
•either (1) the non-U.S. holder certifies in a statement provided to the applicable withholding agent under penalties of perjury that it is not a United States
person and provides its name and address; (2) a securities clearing organization, bank or other financial institution that holds customers’ securities in the
ordinary course of its trade or business and holds the debt security on behalf of the non-U.S. holder certifies to the applicable withholding agent under penalties
of perjury that it, or the financial institution between it and the non-U.S. holder, has received from the non-U.S. holder a statement under penalties of perjury
that such holder is not a United States person and provides the applicable withholding agent with a copy of such statement; or (3) the non-U.S. holder holds its
debt security directly through a “qualified intermediary” (within the meaning of the applicable Treasury Regulations) and certain conditions are satisfied.
If a non-U.S. holder does not satisfy the requirements above, such non-U.S. holder will be subject to withholding tax of 30%, subject to a reduction in or an
exemption from withholding on such interest as a result of an applicable tax treaty. To claim such entitlement, the non-U.S. holder must provide the applicable
withholding agent with a properly executed Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN or W-8BEN-E (or other applicable documentation) claiming a reduction in or
exemption from withholding tax under the benefit of an income tax treaty between the United States and the country in which the non-U.S. holder resides or is
established.
If interest paid to a non-U.S. holder is effectively connected with the non-U.S. holder’s conduct of a trade or business within the United States (and, if required by an
applicable income tax treaty, the non-U.S. holder maintains a permanent establishment in the United States to which such interest is attributable), the non-U.S. holder
will be exempt from the U.S. federal withholding tax described above. To claim the exemption, the non-U.S. holder must furnish to the applicable withholding agent a
valid Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI, certifying that interest paid on a debt security is not subject to withholding tax because it is effectively connected with the
conduct by the non-U.S. holder of a trade or business within the United States.
24
Any such effectively connected interest generally will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the regular rates. A non-U.S. holder that is a corporation may also be
subject to a branch profits tax at a rate of 30% (or such lower rate specified by an applicable income tax treaty) on such effectively connected interest, as adjusted for
certain items.
The certifications described above must be provided to the applicable withholding agent prior to the payment of interest and must be updated periodically. Non-U.S.
holders that do not timely provide the applicable withholding agent with the required certification, but that qualify for a reduced rate under an applicable income tax
treaty, may obtain a refund of any excess amounts withheld by timely filing an appropriate claim for refund with the Internal Revenue Service. Non-U.S. holders should
consult their tax advisors regarding their entitlement to benefits under any applicable income tax treaty.
Sale or Other Taxable Disposition A non-U.S. holder will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on any gain realized upon the sale, exchange, redemption,
retirement or other taxable disposition of a debt security (such amount excludes any amount allocable to accrued and unpaid interest, which generally will be treated as
interest and may be subject to the rules discussed above in “Payments of Interest”) unless:
•the gain is effectively connected with the non-U.S. holder’s conduct of a trade or business within the United States (and, if required by an applicable income
tax treaty, the non-U.S. holder maintains a permanent establishment in the United States to which such gain is attributable); or
•the non-U.S. holder is a nonresident alien individual present in the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year of the disposition and certain
other requirements are met.
Gain described in the first bullet point above generally will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on a net income basis at the regular rates. A non-U.S. holder that is a
corporation also may be subject to a branch profits tax at a rate of 30% (or such lower rate specified by an applicable income tax treaty) on such effectively connected
gain, as adjusted for certain items.
A non-U.S. holder described in the second bullet point above will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at a rate of 30% (or such lower rate specified by an applicable
income tax treaty) on gain realized upon the sale or other taxable disposition of a debt security, which may be offset by U.S. source capital losses of the non-U.S. holder
(even though the individual is not considered a resident of the United States), provided the non-U.S. holder has timely filed U.S. federal income tax returns with respect
to such losses.
Non-U.S. holders should consult their tax advisors regarding any applicable income tax treaties that may provide for different rules.
Information Reporting and Backup Withholding
U.S. Holders A U.S. holder may be subject to information reporting and backup withholding when such holder receives payments on stock of the Company or debt
securities of the Company or Welltower OP or proceeds from the sale or other taxable disposition of such stock or debt securities (including a redemption or retirement
of a debt security). Certain U.S. holders are exempt from backup withholding, including corporations and certain tax-exempt organizations. A U.S. holder will be subject
to backup withholding if such holder is not otherwise exempt and:
•the holder fails to furnish the holder’s taxpayer identification number, which for an individual is ordinarily his or her social security number;
•the holder furnishes an incorrect taxpayer identification number;
•the applicable withholding agent is notified by the Internal Revenue Service that the holder previously failed to properly report payments of interest or
dividends; or
•the holder fails to certify under penalties of perjury that the holder has furnished a correct taxpayer identification number and that the Internal Revenue Service
has not notified the holder that the holder is subject to backup withholding.
Backup withholding is not an additional tax. Any amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules may be allowed as a refund or a credit against a U.S. holder’s
U.S. federal income tax liability, provided the required information is timely furnished to the Internal Revenue Service. U.S. holders should consult their tax advisors
regarding their qualification for an exemption from backup withholding and the procedures for obtaining such an exemption.
Non-U.S. Holders Payments of dividends on stock of the Company or interest on debt securities of the Company or Welltower OP generally will not be subject to
backup withholding, provided the applicable withholding agent does not have actual knowledge or reason to know the holder is a United States person and the holder
either certifies its non-U.S. status, such as by furnishing a valid Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, W-8BEN-E or W-8ECI, or otherwise establishes an
exemption. However, information returns are required to be filed with the Internal Revenue Service in connection with any distributions on stock of the Company or
interest on debt securities of the Company or Welltower OP paid to the non-U.S. holder, regardless of whether such distributions constitute a dividend or whether any
tax was actually withheld. In addition,
25
proceeds of the sale or other taxable disposition of such stock or debt securities (including a retirement or redemption of a debt security) within the United States or
conducted through certain U.S.-related brokers generally will not be subject to backup withholding or information reporting if the applicable withholding agent receives
the certification described above and does not have actual knowledge or reason to know that such holder is a United States person, or the holder otherwise establishes an
exemption. Proceeds of a disposition of such stock or debt securities conducted through a non-U.S. office of a non-U.S. broker generally will not be subject to backup
withholding or information reporting.
Copies of information returns that are filed with the Internal Revenue Service may also be made available under the provisions of an applicable treaty or agreement to
the tax authorities of the country in which the non-U.S. holder resides or is established.
Backup withholding is not an additional tax. Any amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules may be allowed as a refund or a credit against a non-U.S.
holder’s U.S. federal income tax liability, provided the required information is timely furnished to the Internal Revenue Service.
Medicare Contribution Tax on Unearned Income
Certain U.S. holders that are individuals, estates or trusts are required to pay an additional 3.8% tax on, among other things, dividends on stock, interest on debt
obligations, and capital gains from the sale or other disposition of stock or debt obligations, subject to certain limitations. U.S. holders should consult their tax advisors
regarding the effect, if any, of these rules on their ownership and disposition of our stock or debt securities.
Additional Withholding Tax on Payments Made to Non-U.S. Accounts
Withholding taxes may be imposed under Sections 1471 to 1474 of the Code (such sections commonly referred to as the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act
(“FATCA”)) on certain types of payments made to non-U.S. financial institutions and certain other non-U.S. entities. Specifically, a 30% withholding tax may be
imposed on dividends on stock of the Company, interest on debt securities of the Company or Welltower OP, in each case paid to a “foreign financial institution” or a
“non-financial foreign entity” (each as defined in the Code), unless (1) the foreign financial institution undertakes certain diligence and reporting obligations, (2) the
non-financial foreign entity either certifies it does not have any “substantial United States owners” (as defined in the Code) or furnishes identifying information
regarding each substantial United States owner, or (3) the foreign financial institution or non-financial foreign entity otherwise qualifies for an exemption from these
rules. If the payee is a foreign financial institution and is subject to the diligence and reporting requirements in clause (1) above, it must enter into an agreement with the
U.S. Department of the Treasury requiring, among other things, that it undertake to identify accounts held by certain “specified United States persons” or “United States
owned foreign entities” (each as defined in the Code), annually report certain information about such accounts, and withhold 30% on certain payments to non-compliant
foreign financial institutions and certain other account holders. Foreign financial institutions located in jurisdictions that have an intergovernmental agreement with the
United States governing FATCA may be subject to different rules.
Under the applicable Treasury Regulations and administrative guidance, withholding under FATCA generally applies to payments of dividends on stock of the
Company or interest on debt securities of the Company or Welltower OP. While withholding under FATCA would have applied also to payments of gross proceeds from
the sale or other disposition of stock or debt securities on or after January 1, 2019, proposed Treasury Regulations eliminate FATCA withholding on payments of gross
proceeds entirely. Taxpayers generally may rely on these proposed Treasury Regulations until final Treasury Regulations are issued. Because we may not know the
extent to which a distribution is a dividend for U.S. federal income tax purposes at the time it is made, for purposes of these withholding rules we may treat the entire
distribution as a dividend.
Non-U.S. holders should consult their tax advisors regarding the potential application of withholding under FATCA to their investment in stock of the Company or
debt securities of the Company or Welltower OP.
Other Tax Consequences
State, local and non-U.S. income tax laws may differ substantially from the corresponding U.S. federal income tax laws, and this discussion does not purport to
describe any aspect of the tax laws of any state, local or non-U.S. jurisdiction, or any U.S. federal tax other than income tax. You should consult your tax advisor
regarding the effect of state, local and non-U.S. tax laws with respect to our tax treatment as a REIT and on an investment in our stock or debt securities.
In addition, the tax laws and regulations in non-U.S. jurisdictions may impose costs and expenses on the Company, its subsidiaries, and assets and investments of the
Company held in non-U.S. jurisdictions (including the costs of compliance with and filings under applicable laws, rules and regulations). The Company has substantial
assets, and will likely be subject to tax, reporting, legal, regulatory, and other obligations, in the U.K. and Canada. The treatment of an entity for U.S. federal income tax
purposes may not be determinative of its treatment for certain state, local, or non-U.S. tax purposes.
26
Tax Aspects of Our Investments in Welltower OP and Subsidiary Partnerships
The following discussion summarizes certain U.S. federal income tax considerations applicable to our direct or indirect investments in subsidiary partnerships
(including Welltower OP).
Classification as Partnerships We are required to include in our income our distributive share of Welltower OP’s and Subsidiary Partnerships’ income and are entitled
to deduct our distributive share of Welltower OP’s and Subsidiary Partnerships’ losses only if the applicable partnership is classified for U.S. federal income tax
purposes as a partnership rather than as a corporation or association taxable as a corporation. An organization will be classified as a partnership, rather than as a
corporation, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if it (1) is treated as a partnership under Treasury regulations relating to entity classification (the “check-the-box
regulations”) and (2) is not a “publicly traded partnership” taxable as a corporation.
Under the check-the-box regulations, an unincorporated entity with at least two members may elect to be classified either as an association taxable as a corporation or
as a partnership. Generally, if such an entity fails to make an election, it generally will be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We believe that
Welltower OP is classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
A publicly traded partnership is a partnership whose interests are traded on an established securities market or are readily tradable on a secondary market (or the
substantial equivalent thereof). While interests in Welltower OP and Subsidiary Partnership will not be traded on an established securities market, they could possibly be
deemed to be traded on a secondary market or its equivalent due to the redemption rights enabling the limited members to dispose of their interests. A publicly traded
partnership will not, however, be treated as a corporation for any taxable year if 90% or more of the partnership’s gross income for such year consists of certain passive-
type income, including (as may be relevant here) real property rents, gains from the sale or other disposition of real property, interest, and dividends (the “90% Passive
Income Exception”). The income requirements applicable to us in order for us to qualify as a REIT under the Code and the definition of qualifying income under the
Passive Income Exception are very similar. Although differences exist between these two income tests, we do not believe that these differences would cause Welltower
OP or Subsidiary Partnerships not to satisfy the 90% Passive Income Exception applicable to publicly traded partnerships.
If for any reason Welltower OP or a Subsidiary Partnership were taxable as a corporation, rather than as a partnership, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our
ability to qualify as a REIT could be jeopardized. See “Income Tests” and “Asset Tests.” In addition, any change in Welltower OP’s or a Subsidiary Partnership’s status
for tax purposes might be treated as a taxable event, in which case we might incur tax liability without any related cash distribution. See “Annual Distribution
Requirements.” Further, items of income and deduction of Welltower OP or a Subsidiary Partnership would not pass through to its members, and its members would be
treated as shareholders for tax purposes. Consequently, Welltower OP or a Subsidiary Partnership would be required to pay income tax at corporate tax rates on its net
income, and distributions to its members would constitute dividends that would not be deductible in computing such Welltower OP’s or Subsidiary Partnership’s taxable
income.
Members, Not Partnership, Subject to Tax Except as discussed below in “Revised Partnership Audit Rules,” a partnership itself is not a taxable entity for U.S. federal
income tax purposes. Rather, we are required to take into account our allocable share of each partnership’s income, gains, losses, deductions and credits for any taxable
year of the partnership ending during our taxable year, without regard to whether we have received or will receive any distribution from such partnership.
Partnership Allocations Although a partnership agreement generally will determine the allocation of income and losses among partners, such allocations will be
disregarded for tax purposes if they do not comply with the provisions of Section 704(b) of the Code and the Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder. If an
allocation is not recognized for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the item subject to the allocation will be reallocated in accordance with the partners’ interests in the
partnership, which will be determined by considering all of the facts and circumstances relating to the economic arrangement of the partners with respect to such item.
Welltower OP’s and each Subsidiary Partnerships’ allocations of taxable income, gain and loss are intended to comply with the requirements of Section 704(b) of the
Code and the Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder.
Tax Allocations with Respect to Certain Properties Pursuant to Section 704(c) of the Code, income, gain, loss and deduction attributable to appreciated or depreciated
property that is contributed to a partnership in exchange for an interest in the partnership must be allocated in a manner such that the contributing partner is charged
with, or benefits from, respectively, the unrealized gain or unrealized loss associated with the property at the time of the contribution. The amount of such unrealized
gain or unrealized loss is generally equal to the difference between the fair market value of contributed property at the time of contribution and the adjusted tax basis of
such property at the time of contribution (a “Book-Tax Difference”). Such allocations are solely for U.S. federal income tax purposes and do not affect the book capital
accounts or other economic or legal arrangements among the partners. Welltower OP’s partnership agreement requires such allocations to be made in a manner
permitted under Section 704(c) of the Code.
27
In general, the members who contribute property to Welltower OP will be allocated depreciation deductions for tax purposes which are lower than such deductions
would be if determined on a pro rata basis. In addition, in the event of the disposition of any of the contributed assets (including our properties) which have a Book-Tax
Difference, all gain or loss attributable to such Book-Tax Difference (to the extent not previously taken into account) will generally be allocated to the contributing
members, including us, and other members will generally be allocated only their share of income attributable to gain or loss, if any, occurring after such contribution.
This will tend to eliminate the Book-Tax Difference over the life of Welltower OP. However, the special allocation rules of Section 704(c) do not always entirely
eliminate the Book-Tax Difference on an annual basis or with respect to a specific taxable transaction such as a sale. Thus, the carryover basis of the contributed assets
in the hands of Welltower OP may cause us to be allocated lower depreciation and other deductions, and possibly an amount of taxable gain in the event of a sale of such
contributed assets in excess of the economic or book income allocated to us as a result of such sale.
A Book-Tax Difference may also arise as a result of the revaluation of property owned by a partnership in connection with certain types of transactions, including in
connection with certain non-prorata contributions of assets to, or distributions of assets by, Welltower OP in exchange for, or in redemption of, interests in Welltower
OP. In the event of such a revaluation, the members (including us) who were members in the partnership immediately prior to the revaluation will be required to take
any Book-Tax Difference created as a result of such revaluation into account in substantially the same manner as under the Section 704(c) rules discussed above. This
would result in us being allocated income, gain, loss and deduction for tax purposes in amounts different than the economic or book income allocated to us by the
partnership.
The application of Section 704(c) to Welltower OP may cause us to recognize taxable income in excess of cash proceeds, which might adversely affect our ability to
comply with the REIT distribution requirements. See “Annual Distribution Requirements.” The foregoing principles also apply in determining our earnings and profits
for purposes of determining the portion of distributions taxable as dividend income. The application of these rules over time may result in a higher portion of
distributions being taxed as dividends than would have occurred had we purchased the contributed or revalued assets at their agreed values.
Treasury has issued regulations requiring partnerships to use a “reasonable method” for allocating items affected by Section 704(c) of the Code and outlining several
reasonable allocation methods. We have the discretion to determine which of the methods of accounting for Book-Tax Differences (specifically approved in the Treasury
regulations) will be elected with respect to any properties contributed to or revalued by Welltower OP. We have not determined which method of accounting for Book-
Tax Differences will be elected for properties contributed to or revalued by Welltower OP in the future.
Basis in Partnership Interest Our adjusted tax basis in a partnership interest generally is equal to:
•the amount of cash and the adjusted tax basis of any other property contributed (or deemed contributed) by us to the partnership;
•increased by our allocable share of the partnership’s income, and
•reduced, but not below zero, by
◦our allocable share of the partnership’s loss, and
◦the amount of cash and the basis of any property distributed (or deemed distributed) to us.
If the allocation of our distributive share of the partnership’s loss would reduce the adjusted tax basis of our partnership interest in the partnership below zero, the
recognition of such loss will be deferred until such time as the recognition of such loss would not reduce our adjusted tax basis below zero. To the extent that the
partnership’s distributions (including deemed distributions) would reduce our adjusted tax basis below zero, such distributions would constitute taxable gain to us,
which could be treated as ordinary income or long-term or short-term capital gain.
Partnership Audit Rules A partnership (and not its partners) must pay any “imputed underpayments,” consisting of delinquent taxes, interest, and penalties deemed to
arise out of an audit of the partnership, unless certain alternative methods are available and the partnership elects to utilize them. The Internal Revenue Service has
issued regulations providing details on many of these provisions, but it is still not entirely clear how all of these rules will be implemented. Accordingly, it is possible
that in the future, we and/or any partnership in which we are a partner could be subject to, or otherwise bear the economic burden of, U.S. federal income tax, interest,
and penalties resulting from a U.S. federal income tax audit.
Internet Access to Our SEC Filings
Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as well as our proxy statements
and other materials that are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) are made available, free of charge, on the Internet at
www.welltower.com/investors, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. We routinely post important information on our
website at www.welltower.com in the “Investors” section, including corporate and investor presentations and financial information. We intend to use our website as a
means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with
28
our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Such disclosures will be included on our website under the heading “Investors.” Accordingly, investors should monitor
such portion of our website in addition to following our press releases, public conference calls, and filings with the SEC. The information on our website is not
incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference only.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference contain statements that constitute “forward-looking statements,” within the meaning
of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When we use words such as “may,” “will,” “intend,” “should,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,”
“estimate” or similar expressions that do not relate solely to historical matters, we are making forward-looking statements. In particular, these forward-looking
statements include, but are not limited to, those relating to our opportunities to acquire, develop or sell properties; our ability to close our anticipated acquisitions,
investments or dispositions on currently anticipated terms, or within currently anticipated timeframes; the expected performance of our operators/tenants and properties;
our expected occupancy rates; our ability to declare and to make distributions to stockholders; our investment and financing opportunities and plans; our continued
qualification as a REIT; and our ability to access capital markets or other sources of funds. 
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from
our expectations discussed in the forward-looking statements. This may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to:
•the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic;
•uncertainty regarding the implementation and impact of the CARES Act and future stimulus or other COVID-19 relief legislation;
•status of the economy;
•the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital;
•issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government investigations
and punitive settlements and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in cost-effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance;
•changes in financing terms;
•competition within the health care and seniors housing industries;
•negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans;
•our ability to transition or sell properties with profitable results;
•the failure to make new investments or acquisitions as and when anticipated;
•natural disasters and other acts of God affecting our properties;
•our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur;
•our ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold;
•operator/tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies;
•the cooperation of joint venture partners;
•government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements;
•liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants;
•unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future investments or acquisitions;
•environmental laws affecting our properties;
•changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting;
•the movement of U.S. and foreign currency exchange rates;
•our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT;
•key management personnel recruitment and retention; and
•the risks described under “Item 1A — Risk Factors.”
We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events, or otherwise.
29
Item 1A. Risk Factors
Risk Factor Summary
The following summarizes the principal factors that make an investment in our company speculative or risky, all of which are more fully described in the Risk Factors
section below. This summary should be read in conjunction with the Risk Factors section and should not be relied upon as an exhaustive summary of the material risks
facing our business. The order of presentation is not necessarily indicative of the level of risk that each factor poses to us.
Risks Arising from Our Business:
Our business model and the operations of our business involve risks, including those related to:
•investments in and acquisitions of health care and seniors housing properties;
•unknown liability exposure related to acquired properties;
•competition for acquisitions may result in increased prices;
•our joint venture partners;
•Seniors Housing Operating properties operational risks;
•our ability to terminate our management agreements with Seniors Housing Operating managers;
•operational and legal risks with respect to our properties managed in RIDEA structures;
•the ability of operators and tenants to make payments to us;
•the impacts of severe cold and flu seasons or other widespread illnesses on occupancy;
•the insolvency or bankruptcy of our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other obligors;
•our ability to timely reinvest our sale proceeds on terms acceptable to us;
•any adverse developments in the business or financial condition of Sunrise Senior Living, LLC;
•ownership of property outside the U.S.;
•our ability to lease or sell properties on favorable terms;
•tenant, operator and manager insurance coverage;
•loss of properties owned through ground leases upon breach or termination of the ground leases;
•requirements of, or changes to governmental reimbursement programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid or government funding;
•controls imposed on certain of our tenants who provide health care services that are reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid and other third-party payors to reduce
admissions and length of stay;
•our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with federal, state, province, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations,
and standards;
•development, redevelopment and construction;
•losses caused by severe weather conditions, natural disasters or the physical effects of climate change;
•costs incurred to remediate environmental contamination at our properties;
•our reliance on data and technology systems and the increasing risks of cybersecurity incidents;
•our dependence on key personnel; and
•Welltower's holding company status.
Risks Arising from Our Capital Structure
Our capital structure involves exposure to risks, including those related to:
•our future leverage;
•the availability of cash for distributions to stockholders;
•covenants in our debt agreements;
•limitations on our ability to access capital;
•any downgrades in our credit ratings; and
•increases in interest rates.
30
Risks Arising from Our Status as a REIT
As a result of our status as a REIT, we are exposed to risks, including those related to:
•our ability to remain qualified as a REIT;
•Welltower OP's ability to maintain status of a partnership;
•the ability of our subsidiaries to qualify as a REIT;
•the impact of tax imposed on any net income from "prohibited transactions" may limit our ability to engage in transactions which would be treated as sales for
federal income tax purposes;
•the impact of the 90% annual distribution requirement on our liquidity and ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions;
•our limited ability to use taxable REIT subsidiaries under the Code;
•special requirements applicable to the lease of qualified health care properties to a taxable REIT subsidiary;
•the tax imposed on any net income from "prohibited transactions";
•tax consequences if certain sale-leaseback transactions are not characterized by the IRS as “true leases";
•changes in our tax rate or exposure to additional tax liabilities; and
•the impact to our TRSs of the Corporate Alternative Minimum Tax imposed by the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022.
Risks Factors
This section highlights significant factors, events and uncertainties that could create risk with an investment in our securities. The events and consequences discussed
in these risk factors could, in circumstances we may not be able to accurately predict, recognize or control, have a material adverse effect on our business, growth,
reputation, prospects, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, liquidity, ability to pay dividends and stock price. These risk factors do not identify all risks that
we face: our operations could also be affected by factors, events or uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider to present
significant risks to our operations. We group these risk factors into three categories:
•Risks arising from our business;
•Risks arising from our capital structure; and
•Risks arising from our status as a REIT. 
Risks Arising from Our Business
Our investments in and acquisitions of health care and seniors housing properties may be unsuccessful or fail to meet our expectations 
Some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. We could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including
contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. If we agree to
provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the project. Such expenditures
may negatively affect our results of operations. Investments in and acquisitions of seniors housing and health care properties entail risks associated with real estate
investments generally, including risks that the investment will not achieve expected returns, that the cost estimates for necessary property improvements will prove
inaccurate or that the tenant, operator or manager will fail to meet performance expectations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our anticipated acquisitions
and investments, the completion of which is subject to various conditions, will be consummated in accordance with anticipated timing, on anticipated terms, or at
all. We may be unable to obtain or assume financing for acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. Health care properties are often highly customizable and the
development or redevelopment of such properties may require costly tenant-specific improvements. We have experienced delays and disruptions to property
redevelopment as a result of supply chain issues and construction material and labor shortages and may experience additional or more significant such delays in the
future. We also may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and
this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Acquired properties may be located in new markets, either within or outside the
United States, where we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, lack of business relationships in the area,
costs associated with opening a new regional office and unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will
achieve the economic benefit we expect from acquisitions, investment, development and redevelopment opportunities and may lead to impairment of such assets. 
31
Acquired properties may expose us to unknown liability
We may acquire properties or invest in joint ventures that own properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, against the prior
owners or other third parties with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of those properties, we might
have to pay substantial sums to settle or contest it, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Unknown liabilities with respect to acquired
properties might include: liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of
the properties, liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors and others indemnified by the former
owners of the properties.
Competition for acquisitions may result in increased prices for properties
In order to maintain current revenues and continue generating attractive returns, we seek to reinvest cash available from the proceeds of sales of our securities,
principal payments on our loans receivable or the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions in a timely manner. We face competition for acquisition
opportunities from other well-capitalized investors, including publicly traded and privately held REITs, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial
institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors. In addition, limited development during the
COVID-19 pandemic has reduced the number of new properties becoming available. This competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks:
we may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors and, even if we are able to acquire a desired
property, competition from other real estate investors may significantly increase the purchase price.
Our investments in joint ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of exclusive control over these investments, our partners’ insolvency or failure to meet
their obligations, and disputes between us and our partners 
We have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, partnerships or joint ventures with other persons or entities, including our 85/15 joint venture with
Integra Healthcare Properties. Joint venture investments involve risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including the possibility that our partner
might become insolvent, refuse to make capital contributions when due or otherwise fail to meet its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for
guarantees and other commitments; that our partner might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our
interests or goals; that we could become engaged in a dispute with our partner, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such dispute and could
have an adverse impact on the operations and profitability of the joint venture; that our partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our
instructions or requests; and that our joint venture partners may be structured differently than us for tax purposes, which could create conflicts of interest and risks to our
REIT status. In some instances, we and/or our partner may have the right to trigger a buy-sell, put right or forced sale arrangement, which could cause us to sell our
interest, acquire our partner’s interest or sell the underlying asset at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. Our ability to acquire our
partner’s interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. In such event, we may be forced to sell our
interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. On the other hand, our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be
restricted and the market for our interest may be limited and/or valued lower than fair market value. Joint ventures may require us to share decision-making authority
with our partners, which could limit our ability to control the properties in the joint ventures. Even when we have a controlling interest, certain major decisions may
require partner approval, such as the sale, acquisition or financing of a property.
We assume operational and legal risks with respect to our properties managed in RIDEA structures that could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and financial condition
We have entered into various joint ventures that were structured under the provisions of the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007
(“RIDEA”), which permits REITs to own or partially own “qualified health care properties” in a structure through which we can participate directly in the cash flow of
the properties’ operations (as compared to receiving only contractual rent payments) in compliance with REIT requirements. A “qualified health care property” includes
real property and any personal property that is, or is necessary or incidental to the use of, a hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate care facility,
qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility which extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients.
Under a RIDEA structure, we are required to rely on our operator to manage and operate the property, including complying with laws and providing resident care.
However, as the owner of the property under a RIDEA structure, we are responsible for operational and legal risks and liabilities of the property, including, those
relating to employment matters of our operators, compliance with health care fraud and abuse and other laws, governmental reimbursement matters, compliance with
federal, state, local and industry-related licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards, and litigation involving our properties or
residents/patients, even though we have limited ability to control or influence our operators’ management of these risks. Further, our taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”) is
generally required to hold the applicable health care license and enroll in the applicable government health care programs (e.g., Medicare- and Medicaid), which
subjects us to potential liability under various health care laws. Penalties for failure to comply with applicable laws may include loss or suspension of licenses and
certificates of need, certification or accreditation, exclusion from government health care programs (e.g., Medicare and
32
Medicaid), administrative sanctions and civil monetary penalties. Although we have some general oversight approval rights and the right to review operational and
financial reporting information, our operators are ultimately in control of the day-to-day business of the property, including clinical decision-making, and we rely on
them to operate the properties in a manner that complies with applicable law.
We are exposed to operational risks with respect to our Seniors Housing Operating properties that could adversely affect our revenue and operations
We are exposed to various operational risks with respect to our Seniors Housing Operating properties that may increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to
generate revenues. In addition to operational challenges that continue to impact us as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, these risks include fluctuations in occupancy
experienced during the normal course of business, Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates; economic conditions; the availability and
increases in the cost of labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise); competition; federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection
laws, regulations, and standards; the availability and increases in cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage; increases in property taxes; state
regulation and rights of residents related to entrance fees; and federal and state housing laws and regulations, including rent and eviction restrictions imposed during the
COVID-19 pandemic. Any one or a combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue and operations and could eventually lead to impairment of our
properties.
We have rights to terminate our management agreements with operators, in whole or with respect to specific properties under certain circumstances, and we may be
unable to replace operators if our management agreements are terminated or not renewed
We are party to long-term management agreements with our Seniors Housing Operating managers pursuant to which they provide comprehensive property
management, accounting and other services with respect to our Seniors Housing Operating properties. We have the ability to terminate any of our management
agreements upon the occurrence of certain events such as insolvency relating to such manager, and in some cases, the failure to meet specific NOI targets without
curing, as well as the occurrence of other events or certain conditions.
We regularly monitor and review our rights and remedies under our management agreements. When determining if we will take significant action under those
agreements, including terminating a manager, we consider numerous legal, contractual, regulatory, business and other relevant factors. In exercising our rights to
terminate or not renew a management agreement, we would work with our existing seniors housing operators or potentially new operators to manage the properties;
however, there is no assurance that we would be able to timely source a replacement or that any replacement manager would be effective. Any transition to a new
manager would most likely require regulatory approval and potentially the approval of the holders of any liens on the property. The failure to replace on a timely basis,
as well as the failure to receive these approvals, either at all or in a timely manner, could have an adverse effect on the properties and our revenue.
Decreases in our operators’ or tenants' revenues or increases in our operators’ or tenants' expenses, including as a result of increased labor costs, could affect their
ability to make payments to us
We have very limited control over the success or failure of our operators' or tenants' businesses and, at any time, an operator or tenant may experience a downturn in
their business that weakens their financial condition. Our operators’ and tenants' revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, private pay rates, and Medicare and
Medicaid reimbursement, if applicable. Expenses are primarily driven by the costs of labor, supplies, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. Revenues
from government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. Operating and borrowing costs
have increased, and are expected to continue to increase, for our operators and tenants. In particular, our operators' and tenants' businesses have experienced increases in
labor costs resulting from shortages of medical and non-medical staff. A number of factors have adversely affected the labor force available to our operators and tenants
or labor costs, including increased industry competition, high employment levels, increased wages offered by other employers, and government regulations. In many
geographic areas the scarcity of specialized medical personnel, experienced senior care professionals and other workers has been a significant operating issue affecting a
wide range of healthcare providers and senior care and housing facilities. Such shortages have and may continue to impact the operations of our operators and tenants,
resulting in increased labor and operating costs. Continued labor shortages or cost inflation may impact our operators' and tenants' abilities to comply with minimum
staffing requirements under applicable federal and state regulations. Failure to comply with these requirements can, among other things, jeopardize a facility's
compliance with the conditions of participation under relevant state and federal healthcare programs. In addition, if a facility is determined to be out of compliance with
these requirements, it may be subject to fines and other regulatory penalties, including the suspension of patient admissions, the termination of Medicaid participation or
the suspension or revocation of licenses.
To the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in an operator or tenant not generating enough cash to make payments to
us, the credit of our operator or tenant and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. To the extent the value of such property is reduced, we may need to
record an impairment for such asset. Furthermore, if we determine to dispose of an underperforming property, such sale may result in a loss. Any such impairment or
loss on sale would negatively affect our financial results. These risks are magnified where we lease multiple properties to a
33
single operator or tenant under a master lease, as a failure or default under a master lease would expose us to these risks across multiple properties. Although our lease
agreements give us the right to exercise certain remedies in the event of default on the obligations owing to us, we may determine not to do so if we believe that
enforcement of our rights would be more detrimental to our business than seeking alternative approaches.
Increased competition and oversupply may affect our operators’ and managers' ability to meet their obligations to us 
The operators and managers of our properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators and managers of properties and other health care providers that
provide comparable services for residents and patients, including on the basis of the scope and quality of care and services provided, reputation and financial condition,
physical appearance of the properties, price, and location. In addition, in light of labor shortages for medical and non-medical workers in many geographic areas, our
operators and tenants increasingly compete to attract qualified and experienced employees. Our operators and managers are expected to encounter increased competition
in the future that could limit their ability to attract residents and employees or expand their businesses. In addition, we expect that there will continue to be a more than
adequate inventory of seniors housing facilities. We cannot be certain that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate
levels that meet our expected yields and fulfill their obligations to us. If our operators and managers cannot compete effectively or if there is an oversupply of facilities,
their financial performance could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.
A severe cold and flu season, epidemics or any other widespread illnesses could adversely affect the occupancy of our Seniors Housing Operating and Triple-net
properties
Our business and operations were significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and are exposed to risks from COVID-19, severe cold and flu seasons or the
occurrence of other epidemics or other widespread illnesses. Our revenues and our operators' revenues are dependent on occupancy and the occupancy of our Seniors
Housing Operating and Triple-net properties could significantly decrease in the event of a severe cold and flu season, a resurgence of COVID-19 or other widespread
illness. Such a decrease would affect the operating income of our Seniors Housing Operating properties and the ability of our Triple-net operators to make payments to
us. As we experienced during the COVID-19 pandemic, a future flu or other pandemic could significantly increase the cost burdens faced by our operators, including if
they are required to implement quarantines for residents or see a reduction in occupancy, and adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us, which would
have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 
In particular, the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic may continue to adversely affect our business, results of operations, growth, reputation, prospects, financial condition,
operating results, cash flows, liquidity, ability to pay dividends and stock price. The COVID-19 pandemic has had adverse effects on our business, operations and
financial condition, including:
•a decline in spot occupancy in our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio from 85.8% at February 29, 2020 to the pandemic-low of 72.6% on March 12, 2021
and a possibility of continued decline, which could affect the net operating income of our Seniors Housing Operating properties and the ability of our Triple-net
operators to make contractual payments to us;
•increased operational costs incurred by us and our operators across all of our properties as a result of public health measures and other regulations affecting our
properties and operations, as well as additional health and safety measures adopted by us and our operators and tenants, unique pressures on seniors housing
and medical practice employees during the COVID-19 pandemic including labor shortages resulting from macroeconomic trends, decreased employee morale
and productivity as a result of difficult conditions and stress related to the COVID-19 pandemic, and higher operator and tenant cost of insurance and such
insurance may not cover certain claims related to COVID-19; and
•increased operational challenges and costs resulting from logistical challenges such as supply chain interruptions, business closures, restrictions on the
movement of people and remote or hybrid work schedules, which adversely impact employee productivity and morale and introduce additional operations risk,
including cybersecurity risks.
We remain subject to a number of other risks relating to COVID-19, including a decline in the rental income in our Outpatient Medical segment if our tenants do not
renew leases or do not make timely or full lease payments as a result of medical practice closures or decreases in revenue due to government imposed restrictions on
elective medical procedures or decisions by patients to delay treatments; concessions such as rent deferrals or rent abatements that we may offer certain tenants across
our Triple-net and Outpatient Medical segments; and our increased exposure to COVID-19 related litigation and publicity risks if the operators or tenants of the relevant
facilities are subject to bankruptcy or insolvency.
Although the COVID-19 pandemic has subsided from its peaks, any resurgence of the pandemic, outbreaks of new variants, changes in the effectiveness of vaccines,
boosters and treatments, and adoptions of new public health measures may reintroduce the risks relating to the potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on us.
Additionally, there remains uncertainty regarding the implementation and impact of COVID-19 relief legislation, such as the Coronavirus Aid Relief, and Economic
Security Act and the Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act, and possible government audits and investigations related to our receipt and use
of such relief funds.
34
The insolvency or bankruptcy of our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other obligors may adversely affect our business, results of operations and
financial condition 
We are exposed to the risk that our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers or other obligors may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments
due us, which may result in a tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor bankruptcy or insolvency, or that a tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other
obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for other reasons. Although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a
tenant, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding obligation, demand immediate
repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party
that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. A tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency proceedings may be able to
limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise other rights and
remedies. In addition, if a lease is rejected in a tenant bankruptcy, our claim against the tenant may be limited by applicable provisions of the bankruptcy law. We may
be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property
and/or transition a property to a new tenant. In some instances, we have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. In some of those
situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new obligor. If we cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant, we may
take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. Publicity about the operator's financial condition and insolvency proceedings may
also negatively impact their and our reputations, decreasing customer demand and revenues. Should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be
adversely affected. 
The properties managed by Sunrise Senior Living, LLC (“Sunrise”) account for a significant portion of our revenues and net operating income and any adverse
developments in its business or financial condition could adversely affect us 
As of December 31, 2022, Sunrise managed 109 of our Seniors Housing Operating properties. These properties account for a significant portion of our revenues and
net operating income. Under our management agreements, we rely on Sunrise’s personnel, expertise, technical resources and information systems, proprietary
information, good faith and judgment to manage our Seniors Housing Operating properties efficiently and effectively. We also rely on Sunrise to set appropriate resident
fees, to provide accurate property-level financial results for our properties in a timely manner and to otherwise operate them in compliance with the terms of our
management agreements and all applicable laws and regulations. Any adverse developments in Sunrise’s business or financial condition could impair its ability to
manage our properties efficiently and effectively, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. For example, we depend on
Sunrise’s ability to attract and retain skilled management personnel who are responsible for the day-to-day operations of our Seniors Housing Operating properties. A
shortage of nurses or other trained personnel or general inflationary pressures may force Sunrise to enhance its pay and benefits packages to compete effectively for
such personnel, but it may not be able to offset these added costs by increasing the rates charged to residents. Any increase in labor costs and other property operating
expenses, any failure by Sunrise to attract and retain qualified personnel, or significant changes in Sunrise’s senior management or equity ownership could adversely
affect the income we receive from our Seniors Housing Operating properties and have a material adverse effect on us. Also, if Sunrise experiences any significant
financial, legal, accounting or regulatory difficulties, such difficulties could result in, among other things, acceleration of its indebtedness, impairment of its continued
access to capital or the commencement of insolvency proceedings by or against it under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business,
results of operations and financial condition. If we determine to sell or transition properties currently managed by Sunrise, we may experience operational challenges
and/or significantly declining financial performance for those properties.
Ownership of property outside the U.S. may subject us to different or greater risks than those associated with our domestic operations 
We have operations in the U.K. and Canada which represent 9.5% and 7.9% of total Welltower revenues, respectively. As of December 31, 2022, Revera managed 78
of our Seniors Housing Operating properties in Canada, representing a significant portion of our revenues in Canada, and also owned a controlling interest in Sunrise.
International development, ownership, and operating activities involve risks that are different from those we face with respect to our domestic properties and operations.
These risks include, but are not limited to, any international currency gain or loss recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates, which may not qualify under the
75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test required for us to satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a REIT; challenges with respect to
the repatriation of foreign earnings and cash; impact from international trade disputes and the associated impact on our tenants' supply chain and consumer spending
levels; changes in foreign political, regulatory, and economic conditions (regionally, nationally and locally) including, challenges in managing international operations;
challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to real estate, corporate governance, operations, taxes, employment
and other civil and criminal legal proceedings; foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in foreign countries; local businesses and cultural factors that
differ from our usual standards and practices; differences in lending practices and the willingness of domestic or foreign
35
lenders to provide financing; regional or country-specific business cycles and political and economic instability; and failure to comply with applicable laws and
regulations in the U.S. that affect foreign operations, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
Further, our operations in the U.K. may be adversely impacted by global and local economic volatility experienced as a result of geopolitical tensions or conflicts,
such as the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine, rising inflation and interest rates, the energy crisis that has seen supply shortages and higher oil, gas and
electricity prices, labor market challenges affecting the recruitment and retention of employees.
If our tenants do not renew their existing leases, or if we are required to sell properties for liquidity reasons, we may be unable to lease or sell the properties on
favorable terms, or at all
We cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times. If these leases are not renewed, we
would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties, or sell them. There can be no assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants
or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all. Our competitors may offer
space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose potential customers, and we may be pressured
to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge to retain customers when leases expire. In addition, our ability to reposition our properties with a suitable
replacement tenant or operator could be significantly delayed or limited by state licensing, receivership, CON or other laws, as well as by the Medicare and Medicaid
change-of-ownership rules, and we could incur substantial additional expenses in connection with any licensing, receivership or change-of-ownership proceedings. Even
if tenants decide to renew or lease new space, the terms of renewals or new leases, including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants, may be less
favorable to us than current lease terms.
Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and most of the property we own is highly customized for specific uses. Our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of
our properties in response to changes in operator, economic and other conditions will be limited. Although our properties are less affected by the commercial real estate
market trends, this limitation could be exacerbated by the current decline of commercial real estate as a result of high interest rates, inflation and declining property
values across sectors. No assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell. Our inability to respond rapidly to
changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent
in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and health care industries. A downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect
the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us. 
Our tenants, operators and managers may not have the necessary insurance coverage to insure adequately against losses 
We maintain or require our tenants, operators and managers to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties and their operations with terms,
conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are customary for similarly situated companies in our industry and we frequently review our insurance programs and
requirements. Our tenants, operators and managers may not be able to maintain adequate levels of insurance and required coverages. Also, we may not be able to require
the same levels of insurance coverage under our lease, management and other agreements, which could adversely affect us in the event of a significant uninsured loss.
We cannot make any guarantee as to the future financial viability of the insurers that underwrite our policies and the policies maintained by our tenants, operators and
managers. Insurance may not be available at a reasonable cost in the future or policies may not be maintained at a level that will fully cover all losses on our properties
upon the occurrence of a catastrophic event. This may be especially the case due to increases in property insurance costs. In addition, in recent years, long-term/post-
acute care and seniors housing operators and managers have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims. As a result,
general and professional liability costs have increased in some markets. Due to the uncertainty of the long term effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, general and
professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the tenants’, operators’ and managers’ future operations, cash
flows and financial conditions, and may have a material adverse effect on the tenants’, operators’ and managers’ ability to meet their obligations to us. Finally, our use,
and the usage by some of our tenants, operators and managers of self-insurance and/or use of a wholly owned captive insurance company, if not adequately funded,
could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and that of our tenants, operators and managers.
Our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground leases 
We have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is located, and we may acquire
additional properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. Many of these ground leases impose significant limitations on our uses of the
subject properties, restrict our ability to sell or otherwise transfer our interests in the properties or restrict the leasing of the properties. These restrictions may limit our
ability to timely sell or exchange the properties, impair the properties’ value or negatively impact our ability to find suitable tenants for the properties. As the lessee
under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us.
36
The requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid or government funding, could have a material adverse
effect on our obligors’ liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect our obligors’ ability to meet their obligations to us 
Some of our obligors’ businesses are affected by government reimbursement. To the extent that an operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues from
government payors, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of
program overpayments or set-offs, court decisions, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers, change-of-
ownership rules, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities), any lapse in Congressional funding of the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing government investigations and audits at such property. Federal and state
authorities may continue seeking to implement new or modified reimbursement methodologies that may negatively impact health care property operations. See “Item 1 -
Business - Certain Government Regulations - United States - Reimbursement” above for additional information. Health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of
paramount importance to federal and state authorities. We cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the
financial condition of our obligors and properties. There can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services provided by any property
operator, whether the property receives reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid or private payors. Significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on
reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on an obligor’s liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect
the ability of an obligor to meet its obligations to us. In addition, if a partial or total federal government shutdown were to occur for a prolonged period of time, federal
government payment obligations, including its obligations under Medicaid and Medicare, may be delayed. Similarly, if state government shutdowns were to occur, state
payment obligations may be delayed. If the federal or state governments fail to make payments under these programs on a timely basis, our business could suffer, and
our financial position, results of operations or cash flows may be materially affected.
Since January 1, 2014, the Health Reform Laws have provided those states that expand their Medicaid coverage to otherwise ineligible state residents with incomes at
or below 138% of the federal poverty level with an increased federal medical assistance percentage, effective January 1, 2014, when certain conditions are met. The
federal government substantially funds the Medicaid expansion and as of December 2022, the number of states implementing expansion has grown to more than 75% of
all states. The participation by states in the Medicaid expansion could have the dual effect of increasing our tenants’ revenues, through new patients, but further straining
state budgets and their ability to pay our tenants.
The status of the Health Reform Laws may be subject to change and other health reform measures could be implemented as a result of political, legislative, regulatory,
and administrative developments and judicial proceedings. Further the impact that the recent change of control of the House and future changes in the federal
government may have on health reform (including through new legislative, executive or regulatory efforts) remains uncertain, and any changes will likely take time to
unfold and could have an impact on coverage and reimbursement for health care items and services covered by plans that were authorized by the Health Reform Laws.
If the operations, cash flows or financial condition of our operators and tenants are materially adversely impacted by the Health Reform Laws or future legislation, our
revenue and operations may be adversely affected as well. More generally, and because of the dynamic nature of the legislative and regulatory environment for health
care products and services, and in light of existing federal deficit and budgetary concerns, we cannot predict the impact that broad-based, far-reaching legislative or
regulatory changes could have on the U.S. economy, our business, or that of our operators and tenants. 
If controls imposed on certain of our tenants who provide health care services that are reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid and other third-party payors to reduce
admissions and length of stay affect inpatient volumes at our health care facilities, the financial condition or results of operations of those tenants could be
adversely affected
Controls imposed by Medicare, Medicaid and commercial third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as “utilization
reviews,” have affected and are expected to continue to affect certain of our health care facilities, specifically our acute care hospitals and post-acute facilities.
Utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and
occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required pre-admission authorization and utilization review and by payor pressures to maximize outpatient
and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. Efforts to impose more stringent cost controls and reductions are expected to continue, which
could negatively impact the financial condition of our tenants who provide health care services in our hospitals and post-acute facilities. If so, this could adversely affect
these tenants’ ability and willingness to comply with the terms of their leases with us and/or renew those leases upon expiration, which could have a material adverse
effect on us.
37
Our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with federal, state, province, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and
standards could adversely affect such operators’ or tenants’ operations, which could adversely affect our operators’ and tenants’ ability to meet their obligations to
us 
Our operators and tenants generally are subject to or impacted by varying levels of federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection
laws, regulations, and standards. These laws and regulations include, among others: laws protecting consumers against deceptive practices; laws relating to the operation
of our properties and how our tenants and operators conduct their business, such as fire, health and safety, data security and privacy laws; federal and state laws
affecting hospitals, clinics and other health care communities that participate in both Medicare and Medicaid that specify reimbursement rates, pricing, reimbursement
procedures and limitations, quality of services and care, background checks, food service and physical plants, and similar foreign laws regulating the health care
industry; resident rights laws (including abuse and neglect laws) and fraud laws; anti-kickback and physician referral laws; the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990
and similar state and local laws; and safety and health standards set by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration or similar foreign agencies. Our operators’ or
tenants’ failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations, or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension,
decertification or exclusion from federal and state health care programs, civil liability, and in certain limited instances, criminal penalties, material restrictions on or loss
of license, closure of the facility and/or the incurrence of considerable costs arising from an investigation or regulatory action. The likelihood of these actions may
increase due to the uncertainty of the long term effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Such actions may have an effect on our operators’ or tenants’ ability to make lease
payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. In addition, we may be directly subject to these laws, regulations and standards, as well as potential investigation or
enforcement, as a result of our RIDEA-structured arrangements, and certain other arrangements we may pursue with healthcare entities who are directly subject to these
laws. See “Item 1 - Business - Certain Government Regulations - United States - Fraud & Abuse Enforcement” and “Item 1 - Business - Certain Government
Regulations - United States - Health Care Matters - Generally” above.
Many of our properties may require a license, registration, and/or CON to operate. Failure to obtain a license, registration, or CON, or loss of a required license,
registration, or CON would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the operators or tenants. These events could materially adversely affect our
operators’ or tenants’ ability to make rent or other obligatory payments to us. State and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the addition of new beds or
services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction or renovation of health care facilities, by requiring a CON or other similar approval from a state
agency. See “Item 1 — Business — Certain Government Regulations — United States — Licensing and Certification” above. 
In addition, we cannot assure you that future changes in government regulation will not adversely affect the health care industry, including our tenants and operators,
nor can we be certain that our tenants and operators will achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels or labor cost levels that will enable them to satisfy their
obligations to us.
Unfavorable resolution of pending and future litigation matters and disputes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition
From time to time, we are directly involved or named as a party in in legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims that involve class actions, disputes regarding
property damage, care matters and other issues. We also are named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our actions or the actions of our operators/tenants
or managers in which such operators/tenants or managers have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and
liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses. Employment related class action lawsuits have increased in recent years, including class action lawsuits
brought against our operators in certain states regarding employee and government requirements regarding wage and hour claims and fair housing complaints, as well as
class action lawsuits related to COVID-19. There can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, pending or future litigation.
In addition, pending litigation or future litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or interruption of our normal business
operations. An unfavorable resolution of pending or future litigation or legal proceedings may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition. Regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses, significantly divert the attention of management, and could
damage our reputation and our brand. In addition, any such resolution could involve our agreement to terms that restrict the operation of our business. We cannot
guarantee losses incurred in connection with any current or future legal or regulatory proceedings or actions will not exceed any provisions we may have set aside in
respect of such proceedings or actions or will not exceed any available insurance coverage.
Development, redevelopment and construction risks could affect our profitability
We invest in various development and redevelopment projects. In deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the
expected future performance of that property. In particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected construction costs, lease up velocity, occupancy,
rental rates, operating expenses, capital costs and future competition. If our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate, the property may fail to
perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. Our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which
may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals.
38
Our development/redevelopment and construction projects are vulnerable to the impact of material shortages and inflation. For example, shortages and fluctuations in
the price of lumber or in other important raw materials have resulted in and could continue to result in delays in the start or completion of, or increase the cost of,
developing one or more of our projects. Pricing for labor and raw materials can be affected by various national, regional, local, economic and political factors, including
changes to immigration laws that impact the availability of labor or tariffs on imported construction materials.
In connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining,
necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, or satisfactory tax rates, incentives or abatements.
Operators of new facilities we construct may need to obtain Medicare and Medicaid certification and enter into Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements and/or
third-party payor contracts. In the event that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts after the completion
of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains a license or certification to operate the
new facility and the necessary provider agreements or contracts or we find and contract with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its
intended use and the necessary provider agreements or contracts. We have experienced such delays in obtaining necessary licensing for constructed properties and may
experience additional or more significant delays in the future.
We rely on our development managers, general contractors and subcontractors to oversee and manage day-to-day construction activities. If any such party
underperforms or experiences financial or other problems during the construction process, we could experience significant delays, increased costs to complete the
project and/or other negative impacts to our expected returns and may need to exercise contractual remedies against such party, which may include termination of the
applicable underlying service contract. In the event such termination occurs mid-construction, we would likely need to engage a new service provider, which would
likely result in additional costs and delays as the transition between providers occurs.
The above-described factors could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects. In addition, we may abandon opportunities we have begun to
investigate, for a range of reasons, including changes in expected financing or construction costs, adverse changes in expected rents or expenses, adverse environmental
and/or geotechnical findings, conditions to zoning approval, legal and regulatory hurdles, including moratoriums on development and redevelopment activities, changes
in market and economic conditions, natural disasters and other catastrophic events; damage, vandalism or accidents, higher requirements for capital improvements;
decreased demand due to competition or other market and economic conditions, or defects that we do not discover through the inspection processes, which would result
in additional expenses beyond those originally expected. In addition, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all, which may render us unable to
proceed with our development activities. We may not be able to complete construction and lease-up of a property on budget and on schedule, which could result in
increased debt service expense or construction costs. Additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we
may have to wait years for significant cash returns. Because we are required to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or
refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund such distributions. Newly developed and acquired properties may not produce the
cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance. 
We may experience losses caused by severe weather conditions, natural disasters or the physical effects of climate change, which could result in an increase of our
or our tenants’ cost of insurance, unanticipated costs associated with evacuation, a decrease in our anticipated revenues or a significant loss of the capital we have
invested in a property 
We maintain or require our tenants to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are
appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage. However, a large number of our properties are located in areas particularly susceptible to revenue loss,
cost increase or damage caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes and floods, as well as the effects of climate
change. We believe, given current industry practice and analysis prepared by outside consultants, that our and our tenants’ insurance coverage is appropriate to cover
reasonably anticipated losses that may be caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, floods, wildfires and other severe weather conditions and natural disasters,
including the effects of climate change. Nevertheless, we are always subject to the risk that such insurance will not fully cover all losses and, depending on the severity
of the event and the impact on our properties, such insurance may not cover a significant portion of the losses including the costs associated with evacuation. Moreover,
an increase in volatility and difficulty predicting adverse weather events, such as the changes in tornado patterns in recent years, may result in additional losses. These
losses may lead to an increase of our and our tenants’ cost of insurance, a decrease in our anticipated revenues from an affected property and a loss of all or a portion of
the capital we have invested in an affected property. In addition, we or our tenants may not purchase insurance under certain circumstances if the cost of insurance
exceeds, in our or our tenants’ judgment, the value of the coverage relative to the risk of loss. Also, changes in federal and state legislation and regulation relating to
climate change could result in increased capital expenditures to improve the energy efficiency and resiliency of our existing properties and could also necessitate us to
spend more on our new development properties without a corresponding increase in revenue.
39
To the extent that significant changes in the climate occur in areas where our communities are located, we may experience extreme weather and changes in
precipitation and temperature, all of which may result in physical damage to or a decrease in demand for properties located in these areas or affected by these conditions.
Should the impact of climate change be material, including significant property damage to or destruction of our communities, or occur for lengthy periods of time, our
financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, changes in federal, state and local legislation and regulation based on concerns about
climate change could result in increased capital expenditures on our existing properties and our new development properties without a corresponding increase in
revenue, resulting in adverse impacts to our net income.
We may incur costs to remediate environmental contamination at our properties, which could have an adverse effect on our or our obligors’ business or financial
condition
Under various laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held
liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. These laws often impose
liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. We may become liable to reimburse the government
for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. Generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the person’s relationship to the property.
Our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property. Moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we own
or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. Those assessments are designed to meet the “all appropriate inquiry” standard, which we believe qualifies us for the
innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. Based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material
environmental contamination. However, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination, which could
have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition or the business or financial condition of our obligors. 
Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business and result in the loss of confidential information and legal liability
Our business is at risk from and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to our confidential data through phishing or
other malicious activity, attempts to interrupt our access to, or use of information technology systems through distributed denial-of-service or ransomware attacks,
breaches related to our increased receipt and use of data from multiple sources, and other electronic security breaches or other cybersecurity incidents within our
environment or our business partners' environments, including those resulting from human error, product defects and technology failures. Such cyber-attacks can range
from individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our or our business partners' information technology systems to more sophisticated security threats and may be
specifically targeted to our business or more general industry wide risks. Our information technology networks, and those of our business partners are essential to our
ability to perform day-to-day operations of our business. While we employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, there is no guarantee such
efforts will be successful in preventing or detecting a cyber-attack. Even the most well-protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain vulnerable
because the techniques used in such attempted cybersecurity breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are
designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques, implement adequate cybersecurity barriers
or other preventative measures, or respond, mitigate the risks from and recover from an attack without operational impact, and thus it is impossible for us to entirely
mitigate this risk. We regularly defend against, respond to and mitigate risks from cybersecurity breaches, which to date have not had a material impact on our
operations; however, there is no assurance that such impacts will not be material in the future. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our or our critical business partners’
business, damage our reputation, cause us to incur significant remediation expense and have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
of operations. Cybersecurity breaches that compromise proprietary, personal identifying or confidential information of our employees, operators, tenants and partners, or
result in operational disruptions, could result in legal claims or proceedings, including enforcement actions by regulators under data privacy regulations.
Evolving privacy regulations could expose our business to reputational harm and losses
Regulatory authorities around the world have implemented or are considering implementing a number of legislative changes or regulations concerning data
protection, which have required or may require us to incur additional expenses and may expose us to additional risks. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations
governing the protection of personal and confidential information of our clients or employees, including U.S. federal and state laws (including the State of California
and HIPAA), and non- U.S. laws, such as the U.K. General Data Protection Regulation and the EU General Data Protection Regulation, which impose a number of
obligations on us. These obligations vary from state to state and country to country, but generally have accountability and transparency including consent, detailed
information and data removal and security requirements. Some jurisdictions impose the same requirements and restrictions on transfers of data from their jurisdictions
to jurisdictions that they do not consider adequate. This may have implications for our cross-border data flows and may result in additional compliance costs.
40
Many jurisdictions assess fines, the magnitude of which may depend on the annual global revenue of the noncompliant company, the nature, gravity and duration of,
and the violation. Additionally, in some jurisdictions, data subjects may have a right to compensation for financial or non-financial losses. Complying with these laws
may cause us to incur substantial operational and compliance costs or require us to change our business practices. Despite efforts to bring our practices into compliance
with these laws, we may not be successful either due to internal or external factors such as resource allocation limitations or a lack of cooperation among our business
partners. Non-compliance could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities, regulators, our business partners, residents of our communities, data subjects,
suppliers, vendors or other parties. Further, there is a risk that compliance measures we undertake will not be implemented correctly or that individuals within our
business or that of our business partners will not be fully compliant with the new procedures. If there are breaches of these measures, we could face significant
administrative and monetary sanctions, as well as reputational damage, which may have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and prospects.
Our success and the success of our operators and managers depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed 
Our success and the success of our operators and managers depends on the continued availability and service of key personnel, including executive officers and other
highly qualified employees, and competition for their talents is intense. There is substantial competition for qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will retain
our key personnel or that we will be able to recruit and retain other highly qualified employees in the future. Losing any key personnel could, at least temporarily, have a
material adverse effect on our business and that of our operators and managers', financial position and results of operations. 
Welltower is a holding company with no direct operations, and it relies on funds received from Welltower OP to pay its obligations and make distributions to
stockholders
Welltower is a holding company with no direct operations. All of Welltower's property ownership, development and related business operations are conducted through
Welltower OP and Welltower has no material assets or liabilities other than its investment in Welltower OP. As a result, Welltower relies on distributions from Welltower
OP to make dividend payments and meet its obligations, including any tax liability on taxable income allocated to Welltower from Welltower OP. Welltower exercises
exclusive control over Welltower OP, including the authority to cause Welltower OP to make distributions, subject to certain limited approval and voting rights of
Welltower OP's other members as described in the Limited Liability Agreement. In addition, because Welltower is a holding company, your claims as stockholders are
structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations to preferred equity holders of Welltower OP and its subsidiaries. Therefore, in the event of a
bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or reorganization of Welltower OP or its subsidiaries, assets of Welltower OP or the applicable subsidiary will be available to satisfy
any claims of our stockholders only after such liabilities and obligations have been satisfied in full.
Welltower is the initial member and majority owner of Welltower OP, with an approximate ownership interest of 99.751% as of December 31, 2022. In connection
with our future acquisition activities or otherwise, Welltower OP may issue additional Class A Common Units ("OP Units") to third parties and admit additional
members. Such issuances would reduce Welltower's percentage ownership in Welltower OP.
Risks Arising from Our Capital Structure 
We may become more leveraged 
Permanent financing for our investments is typically provided through a combination of public offerings of debt and equity securities and the incurrence or
assumption of secured debt. The incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become more leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater
portion of our cash flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing,
(4) negatively affect our credit ratings or outlook by one or more of the rating agencies or (5) make us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates because of the
variable interest rates on some of our borrowings to the extent we have not entirely hedged such variable rate debt. In addition, any changes to benchmark rates may
have an uncertain impact on our cost of funds and our access to the capital markets, which could impact our results of operations and cash flows. Uncertainty as to the
nature of such potential changes may also adversely affect the trading market for our securities. Additional financing, therefore, may be unavailable, more expensive or
restricted by the terms of our outstanding indebtedness.
Cash available for distributions to stockholders may be insufficient to make dividend contributions at expected levels and are made at the discretion of the Board of
Directors 
If cash available for distribution generated by our assets decreases due to dispositions or otherwise, we may be unable to make dividend distributions at expected
levels. Our inability to make expected distributions would likely result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. All distributions are made at the
discretion of our Board of Directors in accordance with Delaware law and depend on our earnings, our financial condition, debt and equity capital available to us, our
expectation of our future capital requirements and operating performance, restrictive covenants in our financial and other contractual
41
arrangements, maintenance of our REIT qualification, restrictions under Delaware law and other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to
time. Additionally, our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein, or other significant adverse events, occur. 
We are subject to covenants in our debt agreements that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition
Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios
and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. Breaches of these covenants
could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments.
These defaults could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
Limitations on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments
We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. Our
access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions;
the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; the market price of the shares of our common stock
and the credit ratings of our debt securities; changes in the credit ratings on U.S. government debt securities; uncertainty from the transition to Secured Overnight
Financing Rate ("SOFR") or any other interest rate benchmark; and default or delay in payment by the U.S. of its obligations. We also rely on the financial institutions
that are parties to our revolving credit facilities. If these institutions become capital constrained, tighten their lending standards or become insolvent or if they experience
excessive volumes of borrowing requests from other borrowers within a short period of time, they may be unable or unwilling to honor their funding commitments to us,
which would adversely affect our ability to draw on our revolving credit facilities and, over time, could negatively impact our ability to consummate acquisitions, repay
indebtedness as it matures, fund capital expenditures or make distributions to our stockholders. If our access to capital is limited by these factors or other factors, it
could negatively impact our ability to acquire properties, repay or refinance our indebtedness, fund operations or make distributions to our stockholders.
Downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our cost and availability of capital
We plan to manage the company to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our
current credit ratings. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a material adverse effect on our cost and availability
of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, cash flows, the trading/redemption price of our securities and our
ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our equity holders.
Increases in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our cost of capital, and our decision to hedge against interest rate risk might not be effective
The current high interest rate environment has been increasing interest cost on new and existing variable rate debt.  Such increases in the cost of capital, and any
further increases resulting from future interest rate hikes, could adversely impact our ability to finance operations, acquire and develop properties, and refinance existing
debt. Additionally, increased interest rates may also result in less liquid property markets, limiting our ability to sell existing assets. Higher interest rates may also lead
purchasers of our common stock to demand a greater annual dividend yield, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could result in
increased capitalization rates, which may lead to reduced valuation of our assets.
We may from time to time seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility with hedging arrangements, which involve additional risks, including the risks that
counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate
changes, that the amount of income we earn from hedging transactions may be limited by federal tax provisions governing REITs, and that these arrangements may
reduce the benefits to us if interest rates decline. Developing and implementing an interest rate risk strategy is complex and no strategy can completely insulate us from
risks associated with interest rate fluctuations and there can be no assurance that our hedging activities will be effective. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate
risk, if we choose to engage in such activities, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Risks Arising from Our Status as a REIT 
We might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT 
We intend to operate as a REIT under the Code, and believe we have operated and will continue to operate in such a manner. If we lose our status as a REIT, we will
face serious income tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our stockholders because:
42
•Welltower would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at
regular corporate rates;
•Welltower would be subject to increased state and local taxes; and
•unless Welltower is entitled to relief under statutory provisions, it could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable    years following the year during
which it was disqualified. 
Since REIT qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and if we do, our earnings will be
reduced by the amount of U.S. federal and other income taxes owed. A reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. If we
do not qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to stockholders, since a non-REIT is not required to pay dividends to stockholders in order to
maintain REIT status or avoid an excise tax. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, all distributions to stockholders will continue to be treated as dividends to the
extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction, and individual
stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally applicable to long-term capital gains with respect to distributions. 
As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value of
our common stock. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and
administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified
as a REIT. Although we believe that we qualify as a REIT, we cannot assure you that we will remain qualified as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. 
Failure of Welltower OP to maintain status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes
We believe Welltower OP qualifies as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, Welltower OP is generally not subject to U.S. federal
income tax on its income. Instead, each of the partners is allocated its share of Welltower OP's income. We cannot assure you, however, that the IRS will not challenge
the status of Welltower OP as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to successfully challenge the status of Welltower OP as a partnership, it
would be taxable as a corporation. In such event, this would reduce the amount of distributions that Welltower OP could make. The treatment of Welltower OP as a
corporation would also cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. This would substantially reduce our cash available to pay distributions and the return on a unitholder and/or
shareholder's investment.
Certain subsidiaries might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT
We own interests in a number of entities which intend to operate as REITs for U.S. federal income tax purposes, some of which we consolidate for financial reporting
purposes but each of which is treated as a separate REIT for federal income tax purposes (each a “Subsidiary REIT”). To qualify as a REIT, each Subsidiary REIT must
independently satisfy all of the REIT qualification requirements under the Code, together with all other rules applicable to REITs. Provided that each Subsidiary REIT
qualifies as a REIT, our interests in the Subsidiary REITs will be treated as qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests. If a Subsidiary REIT fails to
qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, such Subsidiary REIT would be subject to federal and state income taxes and would not be able to qualify as a REIT for the four
subsequent taxable years following the year during which it was disqualified. Any such failure could have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with the REIT
income and asset tests, and thus our ability to qualify as a REIT, unless we are able to avail ourselves of certain relief provisions. 
The tax imposed on any net income from "prohibited transactions" may limit our ability to engage in transactions which would be treated as sales for federal
income tax purposes
Any net income of a REIT from prohibited transactions (which are, in general, sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the
ordinary course of business, other than dispositions of foreclosure property) is subject to a 100% tax, unless certain safe harbor exceptions apply. Although we do not
intend to hold any properties that would be characterized as held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of our business (other than through a TRS), such
characterizations is a factual determination and no guarantee can be given that the IRS would agree with our characterization of our properties or that we will always be
able to make use of the available safe harbors.
The 90% annual distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions 
To comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to REITs and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders.
Although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time
to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement. This may be due to timing differences between the actual
receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our
taxable income, on the other hand. In addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash
deductions may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. In the event that timing differences occur,
or we deem
43
it appropriate to retain cash, we may borrow funds, even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings, issue additional equity
securities (although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in other
transactions intended to enable us to meet the REIT distribution requirements. This may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations. 
Our use of TRSs is limited under the Code
Under the Code, no more than 20% of the value of the gross assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. This limitation may affect our
ability to increase the size of our TRSs’ operations and assets, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the applicable limitation, or that such
compliance will not adversely affect our business. Also, our TRSs may not, among other things, operate or manage certain health care facilities, which may cause us to
forgo investments we might otherwise make. Finally, we may be subject to a 100% excise tax on the income derived from certain transactions with our TRSs that are
not on an arm's-length basis. We believe our arrangements with our TRSs are on arm's-length terms and intend to continue to operate in a manner that allows us to avoid
incurring the 100% excise tax described above, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to avoid application of that tax.
The lease of qualified health care properties to a TRS is subject to special requirements
We lease certain qualified health care properties to TRSs (or subsidiaries of TRSs), which lessees contract with managers (or related parties) to manage the health care
operations at these properties. The rents from this TRS lessee structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property if (1) they are paid pursuant to an arm's-length
lease of a qualified health care property with a TRS and (2) the manager qualifies as an eligible independent contractor (as defined in the Code). If any of these
conditions are not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents. 
If certain sale-leaseback transactions are not characterized by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) as “true leases,” we may be subject to adverse tax
consequences 
We have purchased certain properties and leased them back to the sellers of such properties, and we may enter into similar transactions in the future. We intend for
any such sale-leaseback transaction to be structured in such a manner that the lease will be characterized as a “true lease,” thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner
of the property for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, depending on the terms of any specific transaction, the IRS might take the position that the transaction is
not a “true lease” but is more properly treated in some other manner. In the event any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and successfully re-characterized by the
IRS, we would not be entitled to claim the deductions for depreciation and cost recovery generally available to an owner of property. Furthermore, if a sale-leaseback
transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT asset tests or income tests and, consequently, could lose our REIT status effective with the year of
re-characterization. Alternatively, the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated, which may cause us to fail to meet the REIT annual distribution
requirements for a taxable year. 
We could be subject to changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities 
We are subject to taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Because the U.S. maintains a worldwide corporate tax system, the foreign and U.S. tax systems are
somewhat interdependent. Longstanding international norms that determine each country's jurisdiction to tax cross-border international trade are evolving and could
reduce the ability of our foreign subsidiaries to deduct for foreign tax purposes the interest they pay on loans from us, thereby increasing the foreign tax liability of the
subsidiaries; it is also possible that foreign countries could increase their withholding taxes on dividends and interest.
Our effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates or changes in tax laws or their
interpretation. We are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the IRS and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. We regularly
assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the
outcome of these examinations. If we were subject to review or examination by the IRS or applicable foreign jurisdiction as the result of any new tax law changes, the
ultimate determination of which may change our taxes owed for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued or recorded, our financial condition, operating
results, and cash flows could be adversely affected.
The present federal income tax treatment of REITs may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time,
which could affect the federal income tax treatment of an investment in us. The federal income tax rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation and REITs are
constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent
revisions to regulations and interpretations.
We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions might affect our investors or us. Revisions in tax laws and interpretations thereof
could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a REIT, as well as the tax considerations relevant to an investment in us, could cause us to change our
investments and commitments, and adversely affect our earnings and cash flow.
44
The impact to our TRSs of the Corporate Alternative Minimum Tax imposed by the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 is uncertain and may be adverse
For tax years beginning after December 31, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 ("IRA") imposes among other things, a 15% Corporate Alternative Minimum
Tax ("Corporate AMT") on certain U.S. corporations with average adjusted financial statement income in excess of $1 billion. Although, by its terms, the Corporate
AMT is not applicable to REITs, it is not certain whether or how the Corporate AMT would apply to our TRSs.
In December 2022, the U.S. Department of the Treasury issued Notice 2023-7, indicating its intention to propose regulations and provide other guidance regarding the
Corporate AMT and issuing certain interim rules on which taxpayers may rely. Until further regulations and guidance from the IRS and Treasury are released, the impact
of the Corporate AMT on our TRSs is uncertain and it is possible that our TRSs will be subject to material U.S. federal income taxes under the Corporate AMT.
Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments
None.
45
Item 2.  Properties 
We lease our corporate headquarters located at 4500 Dorr Street, Toledo, Ohio 43615. We also lease corporate offices throughout the U.S., Canada and the United
Kingdom and have ground leases relating to certain of our properties. The following table sets forth certain information regarding the properties that comprise our
consolidated real property and real estate loan investments as of December 31, 2022 (dollars in thousands):
 Seniors Housing Operating Triple-net Outpatient Medical
Property LocationNumber of
Properties Total InvestmentAnnualized
RevenuesNumber of
Properties Total InvestmentAnnualized
RevenuesNumber of
Properties Total InvestmentAnnualized
Revenues
Alabama 5 $ 56,098 $ 14,082 3 $ 32,944 $ 4,831 6 $ 180,944 $ 12,759 
Arkansas 1 28,634 4,636 — — — 1 21,101 4,126 
Arizona 12 257,315 49,673 — — — 7 77,297 9,873 
California 103 3,622,974 825,685 23 429,725 67,220 42 1,009,678 107,924 
Colorado 16 492,334 113,236 8 223,886 22,444 — — — 
Connecticut 5 108,606 18,685 4 81,982 1,761 7 100,439 9,060 
District Of Columbia 2 98,890 13,695 — — — — — — 
Delaware 7 82,287 28,654 4 108,537 15,983 — — — 
Florida 26 852,694 174,325 43 473,995 54,592 25 228,998 54,370 
Geor gia 15 242,060 55,073 3 37,748 3,726 12 206,707 33,173 
Hawaii 1 72,197 19,207 — — — — — — 
Iowa 9 121,634 34,521 7 54,697 4,335 — — — 
Idaho 5 85,097 6,597 — — — 2 48,932 4,989 
Illinois 36 593,381 156,924 23 329,716 28,257 7 106,322 15,205 
Indiana 8 221,430 37,627 27 401,856 48,528 — — — 
Kansas 10 150,366 47,729 20 170,160 21,71 1 — — — 
Kentucky 4 59,775 15,604 3 50,596 5,491 — — — 
Louisiana 6 110,579 30,427 2 39,387 3,150 — — — 
Massachusetts 16 479,962 80,746 9 184,382 10,136 7 100,984 8,949 
Maryland 10 485,082 98,579 21 258,479 31,931 12 245,700 24,302 
Maine 1 22,821 11,759 — — — — — — 
Michigan 26 429,345 101,797 25 240,373 26,807 13 183,550 24,168 
Minnesota 3 76,447 13,070 12 225,61 1 23,456 7 141,675 31,718 
Missouri 9 169,720 22,413 — — — 12 183,171 22,980 
Mississippi 3 28,617 12,272 — — — 1 33,951 2,342 
Montana 2 24,572 7,874 — — — — — — 
North Carolina 10 308,638 52,360 51 479,391 58,461 25 622,716 52,683 
North Dakota 1 13,012 1,385 — — — — — — 
Nebraska 9 125,203 20,149 — — — 1 10,693 2,285 
New Hampshire 3 87,063 8,090 — — — — — — 
New Jersey 28 703,917 216,156 29 585,422 58,196 15 333,582 45,012 
Nevada 7 126,258 33,248 — — — 8 125,313 10,184 
New York 41 823,123 175,092 4 36,960 7,442 15 409,221 33,538 
Ohio 47 892,834 162,312 41 402,434 43,100 7 97,408 2,566 
Oklahoma 13 166,691 40,536 12 92,244 13,665 2 13,244 2,882 
Oregon 14 158,195 45,605 1 2,428 886 1 41,946 3,155 
Pennsylvania 24 386,404 100,825 56 574,040 94,479 5 84,040 6,147 
South Carolina 5 82,791 19,669 7 32,595 5,261 2 9,556 1,940 
Tennessee 10 199,251 43,621 6 60,628 7,551 3 64,860 9,078 
Texas 76 1,541,846 337,768 23 338,227 39,233 59 1,069,580 107,365 
Utah 4 72,461 23,859 1 21,749 1,887 — — — 
Virginia 9 366,086 102,450 29 374,359 55,165 6 106,869 13,916 
Washington 34 893,930 201,840 7 86,874 7,994 8 178,104 27,753 
Wisconsin 2 18,823 7,108 5 84,390 10,230 5 84,634 9,472 
West Virginia — — — 1 6,208 1,050 — — — 
Total domestic 678 $ 15,939,443 $ 3,586,963 510 $ 6,522,023 $ 778,959 323 $ 6,121,215 $ 693,914 
Canada 107 2,372,861 455,321 6 129,250 10,467 — — — 
United Kingdom 65 1,844,178 430,355 54 1,210,849 150,329 — — — 
Total international 172 $ 4,217,039 $ 885,676 60 $ 1,340,099 $ 160,796 — $ — $ — 
Grand total 850 $ 20,156,482 $ 4,472,639 570 $ 7,862,122 $ 939,755 323 $ 6,121,215 $ 693,914 
 Represents revenue for the month ended December 31, 2022 annualized.(1) (1) (1)
(1)
46
The following table sets forth occupancy and average annualized revenues for certain property types (excluding investments in unconsolidated entities):
 Occupancy Average Annualized Revenues  
 2022 2021 2022 2021  
Seniors Housing Operating 78.1% 76.4% $ 49,987 $ 48,300 per unit
Triple-net 76.2% 73.0% 17,330 19,675 per bed/unit
Outpatient Medical 95.2% 95.4% 38 37 per sq. ft.
 We use unaudited, periodic financial information provided solely by tenants/borrowers to calculate occupancy for properties other than Outpatient Medical buildings and have not independently verified the
information.
 Represents December annualized revenues divided by total beds, units or square feet in service, as presented in the tables above.
Occupancy represents average occupancy of properties in service for the three months ended December 31.
 Occupancy represents average quarterly operating occupancy based on the quarters ended September 30 and excludes properties that are unstabilized, closed or for which data is not available or meaningful.
 Occupancy represents the percentage of total rentable square feet leased and occupied (including month-to-month and holdover leases and excluding terminations) as of December 31.
The following table sets forth information regarding lease expirations for certain portions of our portfolio as of December 31, 2022 (dollars in thousands):
 Expiration Year
 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2031 2032 Thereafter
Triple-net:            
Properties 3 4 15 50 2 4 4 34 6 88 337 
Base rent $ 5,169 $ 13,088 $ 6,612 $ 43,465 $ 1,182 $ 5,246 $ 4,001 $ 68,919 $ 12,773 $ 65,629 $ 393,268 
% of base rent 0.8 % 2.1 % 1.1 % 7.0 % 0.2 % 0.8 % 0.6 % 11.1 % 2.1 % 10.6 % 63.6 %
Units 388 692 451 3,489 180 440 219 3,669 542 4,314 37,320 
% of units 0.8 % 1.3 % 0.9 % 6.7 % 0.3 % 0.9 % 0.4 % 7.1 % 1.0 % 8.3 % 72.3 %
Outpatient Medical:            
Square feet 2,046,278 1,844,706 1,210,369 1,266,337 1,397,012 1,070,909 997,165 1,145,303 1,615,952 1,171,514 3,656,379 
Base rent $ 58,210 $ 56,157 $ 36,284 $ 36,568 $ 38,694 $ 28,656 $ 28,013 $ 31,524 $ 44,050 $ 34,704 $ 97,020 
% of base rent 11.9 % 11.5 % 7.4 % 7.5 % 7.9 % 5.8 % 5.7 % 6.4 % 9.0 % 7.1 % 19.8 %
Leases 436 319 241 209 201 145 76 83 63 124 421 
% of leases 18.8 % 13.8 % 10.4 % 9.0 % 8.7 % 6.3 % 3.3 % 3.6 % 2.7 % 5.3 % 18.1 %
 Excludes investments in unconsolidated entities, developments, land parcels, loans receivable and sub-leases. Investments classified as held for sale are included in 2023.
 The most recent monthly cash base rent annualized. Base rent does not include tenant recoveries or amortization of above and below market lease intangibles or other non-cash income.
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
From time to time, there are various legal proceedings pending against us that arise in the ordinary course of our business.  Management does not believe that the
resolution of any of these legal proceedings either individually or in the aggregate will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial
condition. Further, from time to time, we are party to certain legal proceedings for which third parties, such as tenants, operators and/or managers are contractually
obligated to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless. In some of these matters, the indemnitors have insurance for the potential damages.  In other matters, we are being
defended by tenants and other obligated third parties and these indemnitors may not have sufficient insurance, assets, income or resources to satisfy their defense and
indemnification obligations to us. The unfavorable resolution of such legal proceedings could, individually or in the aggregate, materially adversely affect the
indemnitors’ ability to satisfy their respective obligations to us, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial
condition. It is management’s opinion that there are currently no such legal proceedings pending that will, individually or in the aggregate, have such a material adverse
effect. Despite management’s view of the ultimate resolution of these legal proceedings, we may have significant legal expenses and costs associated with the defense of
such matters. Further, management cannot predict the outcome of these legal proceedings and if management’s expectation regarding such matters is not correct, such
proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
None.(1) (2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(3) 
(4)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(2)
(1)
(2)
47
PART II
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:WELL). There were 3,002 stockholders of record as of February 16, 2023.
Stockholder Return Performance Presentation 
The graph and table below compares the yearly percentage change and the cumulative total stockholder return on our shares of common stock against the cumulative
total return of the S&P Composite-500 Stock Index and the FTSE NAREIT Equity Index. The data are based on the closing prices as of December 31 for each of the
five years presented. 2017 equals $100 and dividends are assumed to be reinvested.
 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2019 12/31/2020 12/31/2021 12/31/2022
S & P 500 $ 100.00 $ 95.62 $ 125.72 $ 148.85 $ 191.58 $ 156.88 
Welltower Inc. 100.00 115.30 141.86 117.05 160.34 126.40 
FTSE NAREIT Equity 100.00 95.38 120.17 110.56 158.36 119.78 
Except to the extent that we specifically incorporate this information by reference, the foregoing Stockholder Return Performance Presentation shall not be deemed
incorporated by reference by any general statement incorporating by reference this Annual Report on Form 10-K into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, or under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. This information shall not otherwise be deemed filed under such Acts.
During the three months ended December 31, 2022, we acquired shares of our common stock held by employees who tendered shares to satisfy tax withholding
obligations upon the vesting of previously issued restricted stock awards. Specifically, the number of shares of common stock acquired from employees and the average
prices paid per share for each month in the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2022 are shown in the table below:
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
PeriodTotal Number of Shares
PurchasedAverage Price Paid Per
ShareTotal Number of Shares Purchased
as Part of Publicly Announced
Repurchase ProgramMaximum Dollar Value of Shares that
May Yet Be Purchased Under the
Repurchase Program
October 1, 2022 through October 31, 2022 285 $ 64.32 — $ — 
November 1, 2022 through November 30, 2022 — — — 3,000,000,000 
December 1, 2022 through December 31, 2022 — — — 3,000,000,000 
Totals 285 $ 64.32 — $ 3,000,000,000 
On November 7, 2022, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program for up to $3,000,000,000 of common stock (the "Stock Repurchase Program").
Under the Stock Repurchase Program, we are not required to purchase shares but may choose to do so in the open market or through privately-negotiated transactions,
through block trades, by effecting a tender offer, by way of an accelerated share repurchase program, through the purchase of call options or the sale of put options, or
otherwise, or by any combination of the foregoing. We expect to finance any share repurchases using available cash and may use proceeds from borrowings or debt
offerings. The Stock Repurchase Program has no expiration date and does not obligate us to repurchase any specific number of shares. We did not repurchase any shares
of our common stock through the Stock Repurchase Program during the three months ended December 31, 2022.
48
Item 6. [Reserved]
49
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
  
Company Overview 51
Business Strategy 52
Key Transactions 53
Key Performance Indicators, Trends and Uncertainties 53
Corporate Governance 55
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
  
Sources and Uses of Cash 55
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 56
Contractual Obligations 57
Capital Structure 57
  
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  
Summary 58
Seniors Housing Operating 59
Triple-net 63
Outpatient Medical 65
Non-Segment/Corporate 67
  
OTHER
  
Non-GAAP Financial Measures 67
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 73
 
50
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following discussion and analysis is based primarily on the consolidated financial statements of Welltower Inc. presented in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) for the periods presented and should be read together with the notes thereto contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-
K. Other important factors are identified in “Item 1 — Business” and “Item 1A — Risk Factors” above.
On March 7, 2022, we announced our intent to complete an UPREIT reorganization. In February 2022, the company formerly known as Welltower Inc. ("Old
Welltower") formed WELL Merger Holdco Inc. ("New Welltower") as a wholly owned subsidiary, and New Welltower formed WELL Merger Holdco Sub Inc. ("Merger
Sub") as a wholly owned subsidiary. On April 1, 2022, Merger Sub merged with and into Old Welltower, with Old Welltower continuing as the surviving corporation
and a wholly owned subsidiary of New Welltower. In connection with the Merger, Old Welltower's name was changed to "Welltower OP Inc.", and New Welltower
inherited the name "Welltower Inc." Effective May 24, 2022, Welltower OP Inc. ("Welltower OP") converted from a Delaware corporation into a Delaware limited
liability company named Welltower OP LLC. Following the LLC Conversion, New Welltower's business continues to be conducted through Welltower OP and New
Welltower does not have substantial assets or liabilities, other than through its investment in Welltower OP.
Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references to "Welltower" mean Welltower Inc. and references to "Welltower OP" mean Welltower OP LLC.
References to "we," "us" and "our" mean collectively Welltower, Welltower OP and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by Welltower and/or Welltower OP.
Executive Summary
Company Overview
Welltower Inc. (NYSE:WELL), an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health care infrastructure. The Company invests
with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund the real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery models
and improve people’s wellness and overall health care experience. Welltower Inc., a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), owns interests in properties concentrated in
major, high-growth markets in the United States ("U.S."), Canada and the United Kingdom ("U.K."), consisting of seniors housing and post-acute communities and
outpatient medical properties.
Welltower Inc. is the initial member and majority owner of Welltower OP, with an approximate ownership interest of 99.751% as of December 31, 2022. All of our
property ownership, development and related business operations are conducted through Welltower OP and Welltower Inc. has no material assets or liabilities other than
its investment in Welltower OP. Welltower Inc. issues equity from time to time, the net proceeds of which it is obligated to contribute as additional capital to Welltower
OP. All debt including credit facilities, senior notes and secured debt is incurred by Welltower OP, and Welltower Inc. has fully and conditionally guaranteed all existing
and future senior unsecured notes.
The following table summarizes our consolidated portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2022 (dollars in thousands):
  Percentage of Number of
Type of Property NOI NOI Properties
Seniors Housing Operating $ 953,372 41.2 % 850
Triple-net 887,024 38.3 % 570
Outpatient Medical 472,760 20.5 % 323
Totals $ 2,313,156 100.0 % 1,743 
 Represents consolidated net operating income ("NOI") and excludes our share of investments in unconsolidated entities. Entities in which we have a joint venture with a minority partner are shown at 100% of
the joint venture amount. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information and reconciliation.
The COVID-19 pandemic has had and may continue to have material and adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the future.
The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our operations and those of our operators and tenants will depend on future developments, which are highly
uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence, including the scope, severity and duration of the pandemic, the effectiveness of vaccines, the actions taken to contain
the pandemic or mitigate its impact and the direct and indirect economic effects of the pandemic and containment measures, the overall pace of recovery, among others.
Our Seniors Housing Operating revenues are dependent on occupancy which has increased during the year ended December 31, 2022. As of December 31, 2022,
nearly all communities are open for new admissions and allowing visitors, in-person tours and communal dining activities.
We have incurred increased operational costs as a result of public health measures and other regulations affecting our properties, as well as additional health and
safety measures adopted by us and our operators related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including increases in labor, personal protective equipment and sanitation. We
expect total Seniors Housing Operating expenses to remain elevated as many of these additional health and safety measures have become standard practice.(1)
(1)
51
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Our Triple-net operators are experiencing similar trends related to occupancy and operating costs as described above with respect to our Seniors Housing Operating
properties. However, long-term/post-acute care facilities are generally experiencing a higher degree of occupancy declines. These factors may continue to impact the
ability of our Triple-net operators to make contractual rent payments to us in the future. Many of our Triple-net operators received funds under the Coronavirus Aid
Relief, and Economic Security Act (“CARES Act”) Paycheck Protection Program and Provider Relief Fund.
Business Strategy
Our primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders and create
opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of annual increases in NOI and portfolio growth. To meet these objectives, we invest across the
full spectrum of seniors housing and health care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type, relationship and geographic location.
Substantially all of our revenues are derived from operating lease rentals, resident fees and services and interest earned on outstanding loans receivable. These items
represent our primary sources of liquidity to fund distributions and depend upon the continued ability of our obligors to make contractual rent and interest payments to
us and the profitability of our operating properties. To the extent that our obligors/partners experience operating difficulties and become unable to generate sufficient
cash to make payments or operating distributions to us, there could be a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial
condition. To mitigate this risk, we monitor our investments through a variety of methods determined by the type of property. Our asset management process for seniors
housing properties generally includes review of monthly financial statements and other operating data for each property, review of obligor/partner creditworthiness,
property inspections and review of covenant compliance relating to licensure, real estate taxes, letters of credit and other collateral. Our internal property management
division manages and monitors the outpatient medical portfolio with a comprehensive process including review of tenant relations, lease expirations, the mix of health
service providers, hospital/health system relationships, property performance, capital improvement needs and market conditions among other things. We evaluate the
operating environment in each property’s market to determine the likely trend in operating performance of the facility. When we identify unacceptable trends, we seek to
mitigate, eliminate or transfer the risk. Through these efforts, we generally aim to intervene at an early stage to address any negative trends, and in so doing, support
both the collectability of revenue and the value of our investment.
In addition to our asset management and research efforts, we also aim to structure our relevant investments to mitigate payment risk. Operating leases and loans are
normally credit enhanced by guarantees and/or letters of credit. In addition, operating leases are typically structured as master leases and loans are generally cross-
defaulted and cross-collateralized with other real estate loans, operating leases or agreements between us and the obligor and its affiliates.
For the year ended December 31, 2022, resident fees and services and rental income represented 71% and 25%, respectively, of total revenues. Substantially all of our
operating leases are designed with escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial
lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash
rental payments due for the period. Our yield on loans receivable depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest rate, the average principal amount
outstanding during the term of the loan and any interest rate adjustments.
Our primary sources of cash include resident fees and services, rent and interest receipts, borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial
paper program, public issuances of debt and equity securities, proceeds from investment dispositions and principal payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of
cash include dividend distributions, debt service payments (including principal and interest), real property investments (including acquisitions, capital expenditures,
construction advances and transaction costs), loan advances, property operating expenses, general and administrative expenses and other expenses. Depending upon the
availability and cost of external capital, we believe our liquidity is sufficient to fund these uses of cash.
We also continuously evaluate opportunities to finance future investments. New investments are generally funded from temporary borrowings under our unsecured
revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, internally generated cash and the proceeds from investment dispositions. Our investments generate cash from
NOI and principal payments on loans receivable. Permanent financing for future investments, which replaces funds drawn under our unsecured revolving credit facility
and commercial paper program, has historically been provided through a combination of the issuance of public debt and equity securities and the incurrence or
assumption of secured debt.
Depending upon market conditions, we believe that new investments will be available in the future with spreads over our cost of capital that will generate appropriate
returns to our stockholders. It is also likely that investment dispositions may occur in the future. To the extent that investment dispositions exceed new investments, our
revenues and cash flows from operations could be adversely affected. We expect to reinvest the proceeds from any investment dispositions in new investments. To the
extent that new investment requirements exceed our available cash on-hand, we expect to borrow under our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper
program. At December 31, 2022, we had $631,681,000 of cash and cash equivalents, $90,611,000 of restricted cash and $4,000,000,000 of available borrowing capacity
under our unsecured revolving credit facility.
52
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Key Transactions
Capital  The following summarizes key capital transactions that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2022:
•In March 2022, we completed the issuance of $550,000,000 senior unsecured notes bearing interest at 3.85% with a maturity date of June 2032.
•In April 2022, we entered into an amended and restated ATM Program (as defined below) pursuant to which we may offer and sell up to $3,000,000,000 of
common stock from time to time. During 2022, we sold 37,905,638 shares of common stock under our current and previous ATM Programs via forward sale
agreements, generating gross proceeds of approximately $3,280,798,000. The sale of these shares and the settlement of outstanding forward sales from prior
years resulted in gross proceeds of approximately $3,715,971,000.
•In June 2022, we closed on an amended $5,200,000,000 unsecured credit facility with improved pricing across our term loans. The credit facility includes
$4,000,000,000 of revolving credit capacity at a borrowing rate of 77.5 basis points over the adjusted SOFR rate, $1,000,000,000 of USD term loan capacity at
a borrowing rate of 85.0 basis points over the adjusted SOFR rate and $250,000,000 CAD term loan capacity at 85.0 basis points over CDOR.
•We extinguished $399,066,000 of secured debt at a blended average interest rate of 5.54% throughout 2022.
Investments The following summarizes property acquisitions and joint venture investments completed during the year ended December 31, 2022 (dollars in
thousands):
 Properties Book Amount Capitalization Rates
Seniors Housing Operating 77 $ 2,511,408 4.7%
Triple-net 5 66,784 0.2%
Outpatient Medical 12 360,905 5.4%
Totals 94 $ 2,939,097 4.6%
 Represents amounts recorded in net real estate investments including fair value adjustments pursuant to U.S. GAAP. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
 Represents annualized contractual or projected NOI to be received in cash divided by investment amounts.
Dispositions The following summarizes property dispositions completed during the year ended December 31, 2022 (dollars in thousands):
 Properties Proceeds Book Amount Capitalization Rates
Seniors Housing Operating 5 $ 88,815 $ 85,413 —%
Triple-net 11 109,917 89,827 3.8%
Outpatient Medical — 764 393 —%
Totals 16 $ 199,496 $ 175,633 3.8%
 Represents pro rata proceeds received upon disposition including any seller financing.
 Represents carrying value of net real estate assets at time of disposition. See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Represents annualized contractual income that was being received in cash at date of disposition divided by stated purchase price. Excludes properties sold that were recent development conversions.
Dividends Our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend for the quarter ended December 31, 2022 of $0.61 per share. On March 8, 2023, we will pay our 207th
consecutive quarterly dividend payment to stockholders of record on February 28, 2023.
Key Performance Indicators, Trends and Uncertainties
We utilize several key performance indicators to evaluate the various aspects of our business. These indicators are discussed below and relate to operating
performance, credit strength and concentration risk. Management uses these key performance indicators to facilitate internal and external comparisons to our historical
operating results, in making operating decisions, and for budget planning purposes.
Operating Performance We believe that net income and net income attributable to common stockholders (“NICS”) per the Consolidated Statements of
Comprehensive Income are the most appropriate earnings measures. Other useful supplemental measures of our operating performance include funds from operations
attributable to common stockholders (“FFO”) and consolidated net operating income (“NOI”); however, these supplemental measures are not defined by U.S. GAAP.
Please refer to the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for further discussion and reconciliations. These earnings measures are widely used by investors
and analysts in the valuation, comparison and investment recommendations of companies.(1) (2)
(1)
(2)
(1) (2) (3)
(1)
(2)
(3) 
53
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following table reflects the recent historical trends of our operating performance measures for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Net income $ 160,568 $ 374,479 $ 1,038,852 
Net income attributable to common stockholders 141,214 336,138 978,844 
Funds from operations attributable to common stockholders 1,478,072 1,220,722 1,102,562 
Consolidated net operating income 2,301,845 1,967,553 2,008,144 
Credit Strength We measure our credit strength both in terms of leverage ratios and coverage ratios. The leverage ratios indicate how much of our balance sheet
capitalization is related to long-term debt, net of cash and restricted cash. The coverage ratios indicate our ability to service interest and fixed charges (interest and
secured debt principal amortization). We expect to maintain capitalization ratios and coverage ratios sufficient to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current
profile. The coverage ratios are based on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") and adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization (“Adjusted EBITDA”). Please refer to the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for further discussion and reconciliation of
these measures. Leverage ratios and coverage ratios are widely used by investors, analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, investment
recommendations and rating of companies. The following table reflects the recent historical trends for our credit strength measures for the periods presented:
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Net debt to book capitalization ratio 39.5% 42.2% 40.8%
Net debt to undepreciated book capitalization ratio 32.1% 34.9% 33.8%
Net debt to market capitalization ratio 29.5% 25.9% 29.6%
Interest coverage ratio 3.73x 3.89x 5.04x
Fixed char ge coverage ratio 3.37x 3.43x 4.49x
Adjusted interest coverage ratio 3.94x 3.89x 3.97x
Adjusted fixed char ge coverage ratio 3.56x 3.43x 3.54x
Concentration Risk We evaluate our concentration risk in terms of NOI by property mix, relationship mix and geographic mix. Concentration risk is a valuable
measure in understanding what portion of our NOI could be at risk if certain sectors were to experience downturns. Property mix measures the portion of our NOI that
relates to our various property types. Relationship mix measures the portion of our NOI that relates to our current top five relationships. Geographic mix measures the
portion of our NOI that relates to our current top five states (or international equivalents). The following table reflects our recent historical trends of concentration risk
by NOI for the years indicated below:
 December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Property mix:    
 Seniors Housing Operating 41% 35% 38%
 Triple-net 38% 43% 37%
 Outpatient Medical 21% 22% 25%
Relationship mix:    
 ProMedica 10% 12% 11%
Sunrise Senior Living 7% 10% 13%
 Atria Senior Living 6% 2% —%
 HC-One Group 4% 3% —%
 Cogir Management Corporation 3% 2% 2%
 Remaining 70% 71% 74%
Geographic mix:    
 California 14% 13% 14%
 United Kingdom 10% 13% 10%
 Texas 8% 8% 9%
 Canada 6% 6% 6%
 New Jersey 6% 6% 5%
 Remaining 56% 54% 56%
 Excludes our share of investments in unconsolidated entities and non-segment/corporate NOI. Entities in which we have a joint venture with a minority partner are shown at 100% of the joint venture amount.
 Year ended December 31, 2022 includes $58,621,000 of income recognized upon termination of a lease. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for further details.(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
54
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
In December 2022, ProMedica relinquished to Welltower its 15% interest in 147 skilled nursing facilities previously owned by the Welltower/ProMedica joint venture
in exchange for a lease modification, which relieved ProMedica from its lease obligation on the 147 skilled nursing properties and amended the lease on the remaining
58 assisted living and memory care properties that continue to be held by the Welltower/ProMedica joint venture. The 58 assisted living and memory care assets
continue to be operated by ProMedica and backed by the existing guaranty.
Concurrently with the above, Welltower and Integra Healthcare Properties ("Integra") entered into master leases for the skilled nursing portfolio. Approximately 15
regional operators will enter into subleases with Integra to operate the properties. Also in December 2022, we sold to Integra a 15% ownership interest in 54 of those
skilled nursing facilities for approximately $73 million. This transaction represents the initial tranche of the newly formed joint venture owned 85% by Welltower and
15% by Integra, which is anticipated to include the 147 skilled nursing facilities. In January 2023, Integra acquired a 15% interest in 31 of the remaining 93 skilled
nursing facilities for approximately $74 million, representing the second tranche of the WELL/Integra joint venture. Integra is expected to buy into the remaining 62
assets throughout 2023.
ProMedica NOI for the year ended December 31, 2022 was comprised of $59,687,000 relating to the 58 assisted living and memory care properties (3% of total NOI)
and $180,441,000 relating to the 147 skilled nursing properties (8% of total NOI).
We evaluate our key performance indicators in conjunction with current expectations to determine if historical trends are indicative of future results. Our expected
results may not be achieved and actual results may differ materially from our expectations. Factors that may cause actual results to differ from expected results are
described in more detail in “Item 1 — Business — Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and “Item 1A — Risk Factors” and other sections of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Management regularly monitors economic and other factors to develop strategic and tactical plans designed to improve performance
and maximize our competitive position. Our ability to achieve our financial objectives is dependent upon our ability to effectively execute these plans and to
appropriately respond to emerging economic and company-specific trends. Please refer to “Item 1 — Business,” “Item 1A — Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K for further discussion of these risk factors.
Corporate Governance
Maintaining investor confidence and trust is important in today’s business environment. Our Board of Directors and management are strongly committed to policies
and procedures that reflect the highest level of ethical business practices. Our corporate governance guidelines provide the framework for our business operations and
emphasize our commitment to increase stockholder value while meeting all applicable legal requirements. These guidelines meet the listing standards adopted by the
New York Stock Exchange and are available on the Internet at www.welltower.com/investors/governance. The information on our website is not incorporated by
reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference only.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Sources and Uses of Cash
Our primary sources of cash include resident fees and services, rent and interest receipts, borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial
paper program, public issuances of debt and equity securities, proceeds from investment dispositions and principal payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of
cash include dividend distributions, debt service payments (including principal and interest), real property investments (including acquisitions, capital expenditures,
construction advances and transaction costs), loan advances, property operating expenses, general and administrative expenses and other expenses. These sources and
uses of cash are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and are discussed in further detail below. The following is a summary of our sources and uses
of cash flows for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
 December 31, December 31,   December 31,     
 2022 2021 $ % 2020 $ % $ %
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at
beginning of period $ 346,755 $ 2,021,043 $ (1,674,288) -83 % $ 385,766 $ 1,635,277 424 % $ (39,01 1) -10 %
Net cash provided from (used in):  
Operating activities 1,328,708 1,275,325 53,383 4 % 1,364,756 (89,431) -7 % (36,048) -3 %
Investing activities (3,703,815) (4,516,268) 812,453 -18 % 2,347,928 (6,864,196) n/a (6,051,743) n/a
Financing activities 2,761,277 1,567,664 1,193,613 76 % (2,080,858) 3,648,522 n/a 4,842,135 n/a
Effect of foreign currency translation (10,633) (1,009) (9,624) 954 % 3,451 (4,460) n/a (14,084) n/a
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end
of period $ 722,292 $ 346,755 $ 375,537 108 % $ 2,021,043 $ (1,674,288) -83 % $ (1,298,751) -64 %
55
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Operating Activities The changes in net cash provided from operating activities was immaterial. Please see “Results of Operations” for discussion of net income
fluctuations. For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, cash flows from operations exceeded cash distributions to stockholders.
Investing Activities  The changes in net cash provided from/used in investing activities are primarily attributable to net changes in real property investments and
dispositions, loans receivable and investments in unconsolidated entities, which are summarized above in “Key Transactions.” Please refer to Notes 3 and 5 of our
consolidated financial statements for additional information. The following is a summary of cash used in non-acquisition capital improvement activities for the periods
presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
 December 31, December 31,   December 31,     
 2022 2021 $ % 2020 $ % $ %
New development $ 631,737 $ 417,963 $ 213,774 51 %$ 201,336 $ 216,627 108 %$ 430,401 214 %
Recurring capital expenditures, tenant
improvements and lease commissions 198,576 99,994 98,582 99 % 83,146 16,848 20 % 115,430 139 %
Renovations, redevelopments and other
capital improvements 277,440 182,594 94,846 52 % 161,843 20,751 13 % 115,597 71 %
Total $ 1,107,753 $ 700,551 $ 407,202 58 %$ 446,325 $ 254,226 57 %$ 661,428 148 %
The change in new development is primarily due to the number and size of construction projects on-going during the relevant periods. Renovations, redevelopments
and other capital improvements include expenditures to maximize property value, increase net operating income, maintain a market-competitive position and/or achieve
property stabilization. The increase in overall development and recurring capital expenditures, tenant improvements and lease commissions is due primarily to portfolio
growth and increased spending after a contraction during the pandemic. 
Financing Activities The changes in net cash provided from/used in financing activities are primarily attributable to changes related to our long-term debt
arrangements, the issuances of common stock and dividend payments which are summarized above in “Key Transactions.” Please refer to Notes 10, 11 and 14 of our
consolidated financial statements for additional information.
In March 2022, we completed the issuance of $550,000,000 senior unsecured notes with a maturity date of June 2032. In April 2022, we closed on an amended
$5,200,000,000 unsecured credit facility, increasing our term loan capacity by $500,000,000. As of December 31, 2022, we have total near-term available liquidity of
approximately $4.7 billion.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
At December 31, 2022, we had investments in unconsolidated entities with our ownership generally ranging from 10% to 88%. We use financial derivative
instruments to hedge interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate exposure. At December 31, 2022, we had 21 outstanding letter of credit obligations. Please see
Notes 8, 12 and 13 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
56
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Contractual Obligations
The following table summarizes our payment requirements under contractual obligations as of December 31, 2022 (in thousands):
 Payments Due by Period
Contractual Obligations Total 2023 2024-2025 2026-2027 Thereafter
Senior unsecured notes and term credit facilities:
U.S. Dollar senior unsecured notes $ 9,900,000 $ — $ 2,600,000 $ 1,200,000 $ 6,100,000 
     Canadian Dollar senior unsecured notes 221,697 — — 221,697 — 
     Pounds Sterling senior unsecured notes 1,268,085 — — — 1,268,085 
U.S. Dollar term credit facility 1,010,000 — 10,000 1,000,000 — 
     Canadian Dollar term credit facility 184,747 — — 184,747 — 
Secured debt:     
Consolidated 2,129,954 627,672 612,517 311,945 577,820 
     Unconsolidated  1,306,025 234,613 696,987 178,010 196,415 
Contractual interest obligations:     
     Senior unsecured notes and term loans 3,980,016 511,574 920,126 735,555 1,812,761 
     Consolidated secured debt 327,455 80,305 104,845 69,626 72,679 
     Unconsolidated secured debt 181,592 35,550 67,524 29,387 49,131 
Finance lease liabilities 206,489 72,218 5,591 3,538 125,142 
Operating lease liabilities 963,239 20,279 35,556 31,350 876,054 
Purchase obligations 2,096,349 1,230,913 799,826 65,610 — 
Total contractual obligations $ 23,775,648 $ 2,813,124 $ 5,852,972 $ 4,031,465 $ 11,078,087 
 Amounts represent principal amounts due and do not reflect unamortized premiums/discounts or other fair value adjustments as reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 Based on foreign currency exchange rates in effect as of balance sheet date.
 Based on variable interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2022.
 See Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
 See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Capital Structure
Please refer to “Credit Strength” above for a discussion of our leverage and coverage ratio trends. Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and
events of default. Certain agreements require us to maintain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness,
create liens and make investments or acquisitions. As of December 31, 2022, we were in compliance in all material respects with the covenants under our debt
agreements. None of our debt agreements contain provisions for acceleration which could be triggered by our debt ratings. However, under our primary unsecured credit
facility, the ratings on our senior unsecured notes are used to determine the fees and interest charged. We plan to manage the company to maintain compliance with our
debt covenants and with a capital structure consistent with our current profile. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could
have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity
and/or financial condition.
On April 1, 2022, Welltower Inc. and Welltower OP LLC jointly filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) an open-ended automatic or
“universal” shelf registration statement on Form S-3 covering an indeterminate amount of future offerings of Welltower Inc.’s debt securities, common stock, preferred
stock, depositary shares, guarantees of debt securities issued by Welltower OP LLC, warrants and units and Welltower OP LLC’s debt securities and guarantees of debt
securities issued by Welltower Inc. to replace Old Welltower’s existing “universal” shelf registration statement filed with the SEC on May 4, 2021. On April 1, 2022,
Welltower Inc. also filed with the SEC a registration statement in connection with its enhanced dividend reinvestment plan (“DRIP”) under which it may issue up to
15,000,000 shares of common stock to replace Old Welltower’s existing DRIP registration statement on Form S-3 filed with the SEC on May 4, 2021. As of
February 16, 2023, 15,000,000 shares of common stock remained available for issuance under the DRIP registration statement. On April 4, 2022, Welltower Inc. entered
into (i) a second amended and restated equity distribution agreement (the “EDA”) with (i) Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Barclays Capital Inc., BMO Capital
Markets Corp., BNP Paribas Securities Corp., BNY Mellon Capital Markets, LLC, BofA Securities, Inc., BOK Financial Securities, Inc., Capital One Securities Inc.,
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Comerica Securities, Inc., Credit Agricole Securities (USA) Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Fifth Third Securities, Inc., Goldman
Sachs & Co. LLC, Jefferies LLC, JMP Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Loop Capital Markets LLC, Mizuho Securities USA
LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, MUFG Securities(1)
(2)
(2)
(2)
(1,2)
(3)
(2)
(2)
(2)
(4)
(4)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
57
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Americas Inc., RBC Capital Markets, LLC, Regions Securities LLC, Scotia Capital (USA) Inc., SMBC Nikko Securities America, Inc., Synovus Securities, Inc., TD
Securities (USA) LLC, Truist Securities, Inc. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC as sales agents and forward sellers and (ii) the forward purchasers named therein relating
to issuances, offers and sales from time to time of up to $3,000,000,000 aggregate amount of common stock of Welltower Inc. (together with the existing master forward
sale confirmations relating thereto, the “ATM Program”), amending and restating the ATM Program entered into on July 30, 2021 to, among other amendments, increase
the total amount of shares of common stock that may be offered and sold under the ATM Program from $2,500,000,000 to $3,000,000,000, which amount excludes
shares Old Welltower had previously sold pursuant to the prior program. The ATM Program also allows Welltower Inc. to enter into forward sale agreements. As of
February 16, 2023, we had $1,150,202,853 of remaining capacity under the ATM Program and there were no outstanding forward sales agreements. Depending upon
market conditions, we anticipate issuing securities under our registration statements to invest in additional properties and to repay borrowings under our unsecured
revolving credit facility and commercial paper program.
In connection with the filing of the new “universal” shelf registration statement, Welltower Inc. also filed with the SEC two prospectus supplements that will continue
offerings that were previously covered by Old Welltower's prospectus supplements and the accompanying prospectus to the prior registration statement relating to: (i)
the registration of up to 620,731 shares of common stock of Welltower Inc. (the “DownREIT Shares”), that may be issued from time to time if, and to the extent that,
certain holders of Class A units (the “DownREIT Units”) of HCN G&L DownREIT, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the “DownREIT”), tender such
DownREIT Units for redemption by the DownREIT, and HCN DownREIT Member, LLC, a majority-owned indirect subsidiary of Welltower Inc. (including its
permitted successors and assigns, the “Managing Member”), or a designated affiliate of the Managing Member, elects to assume the redemption obligations of the
DownREIT and to satisfy all or a portion of the redemption consideration by issuing DownREIT Shares to the holders instead of or in addition to paying a cash amount;
and (ii) the registration of up to 475,327 shares of common stock of Welltower Inc. (the “DownREIT II Shares”), that may be issued from time to time if, and to the
extent that, certain holders of Class A units (the “DownREIT II Units,” and collectively with the DownREIT Units, the “Units”) of HCN G&L DownREIT II LLC, a
Delaware limited liability company (the “DownREIT II”), tender such DownREIT II Units for redemption by the DownREIT II, and the Managing Member, or a
designated affiliate of the Managing Member, elects to assume the redemption obligations of the DownREIT II and to satisfy all or a portion of the redemption
consideration by issuing DownREIT II Shares to the holders instead of or in addition to paying a cash amount. On July 22, 2022, Welltower Inc. filed with the SEC a
prospectus supplement relating to the registration of up to 300,026 shares of common stock of Welltower Inc. that may be issued from time to time if, and to the extent
that, certain holders of Class A Common Units (the "OP Units") of Welltower OP tender the OP Units for redemption by Welltower OP, and Welltower Inc. elects to
assume the redemption obligations of Welltower OP and to satisfy all or a portion of the redemption consideration by issuing shares of its common stock to the holders
instead of or in addition to paying a cash amount.
Supplemental Guarantor Information
Welltower OP has issued the unsecured notes described in Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. All unsecured notes are fully and unconditionally
guaranteed by Welltower, and Welltower OP is 99.751% owned by Welltower as of December 31, 2022. Effective January 4, 2021, the SEC adopted amendments to the
financial disclosure requirements applicable to registered debt offerings that include certain credit enhancements. We have adopted these new rules, which permits
subsidiary issuers of obligations guaranteed by the parent to omit separate financial statements if the consolidated financial statements of the parent company have been
filed, the subsidiary obligor is a consolidated subsidiary of the parent company, the guaranteed security is debt or debt-like, and the security is guaranteed fully and
unconditionally by the parent. Accordingly, separate consolidated financial statements of Welltower OP have not been presented. Furthermore, Welltower and Welltower
OP have no material assets, liabilities, or operations other than financing activities and their investments in non-guarantor subsidiaries. Therefore, we meet the criteria in
Rule 13-01 of Regulation S-X to omit the summarized financial information from our disclosures.
Results of Operations
Summary
Our primary sources of revenue include resident fees and services, rent and interest income. Our primary expenses include property operating expenses, depreciation
and amortization, interest expense, general and administrative expenses, and other expenses. We evaluate our business and make resource allocations on our three
business segments: Seniors Housing Operating, Triple-net and Outpatient Medical. The primary performance measures for our properties are NOI and same store NOI
("SSNOI") and other supplemental measures include FFO and Adjusted EBITDA, which are further discussed below. Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures for
additional information and reconciliations related to these supplemental measures. 
This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses 2022 and 2021 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2022 and 2021. Discussions of 2020 items and year-
to-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020 that are not included
58
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021.
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the periods presented (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):
 Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
 December 31, December 31,   December 31,     
 2022 2021 Amount % 2020 Amount % Amount %
Net income $ 160,568 $ 374,479 $ (213,911) -57 %$ 1,038,852 $ (664,373) -64 %$ (878,284) -85 %
NICS 141,214 336,138 (194,924) -58 % 978,844 (642,706) -66 % (837,630) -86 %
FFO 1,478,072 1,220,722 257,350 21 % 1,102,562 118,160 11 % 375,510 34 %
EBITDA 2,007,702 1,910,611 97,091 5 % 2,601,645 (691,034) -27 % (593,943) -23 %
Adjusted EBITDA 2,122,399 1,913,546 208,853 11 % 2,048,412 (134,866) -7 % 73,987 4 %
NOI 2,301,845 1,967,553 334,292 17 % 2,008,144 (40,591) -2 % 293,701 15 %
Per share data (fully diluted):       
Net income attributable to common
stockholders $ 0.30 $ 0.78 $ (0.48) -62 %$ 2.33 $ (1.55) -67 %$ (2.03) -87 %
Funds from operations attributable to
common stockholders $ 3.18 $ 2.86 $ 0.32 11 %$ 2.64 $ 0.22 8 %$ 0.54 20 %
Interest coverage ratio 3.73x 3.89x -0.16x -4 % 5.04x -1.15x -23 % -1.31x -26 %
Fixed charge coverage ratio 3.37x 3.43x -0.06x -2 % 4.49x -1.06x -24 % -1.12x -25 %
Adjusted interest coverage ratio 3.94x 3.89x 0.05x 1 % 3.97x -0.08x -2 % -0.03x -1 %
Adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio 3.56x 3.43x 0.13x 4 % 3.54x -0.11x -3 % 0.02x 1 %
(1) Includes adjustment to the numerator for income (loss) attributable to OP unitholders.
The following table represents the changes in outstanding common stock for the period from January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2022 (in thousands):
 Year Ended  
 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 Totals
Beginning balance 447,239 417,401 410,257 410,257 
Dividend reinvestment plan issuances — — 264 264 
Redemption of OP  Units and DownREIT  Units 5 — — 5 
Option exercises 2 — — 2 
ATM Program issuances 43,093 29,667 6,800 79,560 
Repurchase of common stock — — (202) (202)
Other , net 169 171 282 622 
Ending balance 490,508 447,239 417,401 490,508 
Weighted average number of shares outstanding:    
Basic 462,185 424,976 415,451  
Diluted 465,158 426,841 417,387  
A portion of our earnings are derived primarily from long-term investments with predictable rates of return. These investments are mainly financed with a
combination of equity, senior unsecured notes, secured debt and borrowings under our primary unsecured credit facility. During inflationary periods, which generally are
accompanied by rising interest rates, our ability to grow may be adversely affected because the yield on new investments may increase at a slower rate than new
borrowing costs.
Seniors Housing Operating 
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the Seniors Housing Operating segment for the years presented (dollars in thousands):(1)
59
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
 December 31, December 31,   December 31,     
 2022 2021 $ % 2020 $ % $ %
Revenues:          
Resident fees and services $ 4,173,711 $ 3,197,223 $ 976,488 31 % $ 3,074,022 $ 123,201 4 % $ 1,099,689 36 %
Interest income 7,867 4,231 3,636 86 % 618 3,613 585 % 7,249 n/a
Other income 63,839 11,796 52,043 441 % 7,223 4,573 63 % 56,616 784 %
Total revenues 4,245,417 3,213,250 1,032,167 32 % 3,081,863 131,387 4 % 1,163,554 38 %
Property operating expenses 3,292,045 2,529,344 762,701 30 % 2,326,311 203,033 9 % 965,734 42 %
NOI 953,372 683,906 269,466 39 % 755,552 (71,646) -9 % 197,820 26 %
Other expenses:    
Depreciation and amortization 854,800 593,565 261,235 44 % 544,462 49,103 9 % 310,338 57 %
Interest expense 34,833 39,327 (4,494) -11 % 54,901 (15,574) -28 % (20,068) -37 %
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 386 (2,628) 3,014 115 % 12,659 (15,287) -121 % (12,273) -97 %
Provision for loan losses, net 1,039 394 645 164 % 671 (277) -41 % 368 55 %
Impairment of assets 13,146 22,317 (9,171) -41 % 100,741 (78,424) -78 % (87,595) -87 %
Other expenses 66,026 27,132 38,894 143 % 14,265 12,867 90 % 51,761 363 %
 970,230 680,107 290,123 43 % 727,699 (47,592) -7 % 242,531 33 %
Income (loss) from continuing operations before income
taxes and other items (16,858) 3,799 (20,657) -544 % 27,853 (24,054) -86 % (44,711) -161 %
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities (53,318) (39,225) (14,093) -36 % (33,857) (5,368) -16 % (19,461) -57 %
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 5,794 6,146 (352) -6 % 328,249 (322,103) -98 % (322,455) -98 %
Income from continuing operations (64,382) (29,280) (35,102) -120 % 322,245 (351,525) -109 % (386,627) -120 %
Net income (loss) (64,382) (29,280) (35,102) -120 % 322,245 (351,525) -109 % (386,627) -120 %
Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling
interests (16,258) (2,224) (14,034) -631 % 20,301 (22,525) -111 % (36,559) -180 %
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ (48,124)$ (27,056)$ (21,068) -78 % $ 301,944 $ (329,000) -109 % $ (350,068) -116 %
  See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below.
Resident fees and services and property operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased compared to the prior year primarily due to acquisitions
and construction conversions, including the acquisition of the Holiday Retirement portfolio on July 30, 2021 for a total purchase price of $1.6 billion. Additionally, our
Seniors Housing Operating revenues are dependent on occupancy, which has steadily increased during 2022. As of December 31, 2022, nearly all communities are open
for new admissions and allowing visitors, in-person tours and communal dining activities. Average occupancy is as follows:
Three Months Ended
March 31, June 30, September 30, December 31,
2021 72.7% 73.0% 74.9% 76.3%
2022 76.3% 77.1% 78.0% 78.3%
Average occupancy includes our minority ownership share related to unconsolidated properties and excludes the minority partners' noncontrolling ownership share related to consolidated properties. Also
excludes land parcels and properties under development.
Effective on April 1, 2022, our leasehold interest relating to the master lease with National Health Investors, Inc. ("NHI") for 17 properties assumed in conjunction
with the Holiday Retirement acquisition was terminated as a result of the transition or sale of the properties by NHI. The lease termination was part of an agreement to
resolve outstanding litigation with NHI. In conjunction with the agreement, a wholly owned subsidiary and the lessee on the master lease agreed to release $6,883,000
of cash to the landlord, which represents the net cash flow generated from the properties since we assumed the leasehold interest. Additionally, in conjunction with the
lease termination, during the year ended December 31, 2022 we recognized $58,621,000 in other income on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income,
from the derecognition of the right of use asset and related lease liability.
Property-level operating expenses associated with the COVID-19 pandemic relating to our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio totaled $33,099,000, $63,681,000 and
$110,719,000 for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. These expenses were incurred as a result of public health measures and other
regulations affecting our properties, as well as additional health and safety measures adopted by us and our operators related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including
increases in labor and property cleaning expenses and expenditures related to our efforts to procure personal protective equipment ("PPE") and supplies. We expect total
Seniors Housing Operating expenses to remain elevated as certain of these additional health and safety measures have become standard practice.
We received government grants under the CARES Act primarily to cover increased expenses and lost revenue during the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as under
similar programs in the U.K. and Canada. We recognized $38,607,000, $97,933,000 and $31,927,000 during the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020,
respectively. These grants represent a reduction to property operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. Additionally, during the years
ended(1)
(1)
(1)
(1) 
60
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
December 31, 2021 and 2020, we recognized $4,642,000 and $3,014,000, respectively, of government grant income in other income in our Consolidated Statements of
Comprehensive Income.
The following is a summary of our SSNOI at Welltower's Share for the Seniors Housing Operating segment (dollars in thousands):
 QTD Pool YTD Pool
Three Months Ended Change Year Ended Change
 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 $ % December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 $ %
SSNOI $ 184,716 $ 155,608 $ 29,108 18.7 % $ 610,724 $ 548,872 $ 61,852 11.3 %
 Relates to 654 properties for the QTD Pool and 514 properties for the YTD Pool. Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information and reconciliations.
During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded impairment charges of $13,146,000 related to one held for sale property in which the carrying value exceeded
the estimated fair value less costs to sell. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded impairment charges of $22,317,000 related to two held for use
properties in which the carrying value exceeded the estimated fair value. Transaction costs related to asset acquisitions are capitalized as a component of the purchase
price. The fluctuation in other expenses is primarily due to the timing of noncapitalizable transaction costs associated with acquisitions and operator transitions. Changes
in the gain on sales of properties are related to the volume and timing of property sales and the sales prices.
Depreciation and amortization fluctuates as a result of acquisitions, disposition and transitions. To the extent we acquire or dispose of additional properties in the
future, our provision for depreciation and amortization will change accordingly.
During the year ended December 31, 2022, we completed six Seniors Housing Operating construction projects representing $227,796,000 or $333,035 per unit. The
following is a summary of our consolidated Seniors Housing Operating construction projects, excluding expansions, pending as of December 31, 2022 (dollars in
thousands):(1)
(1)
61
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Location Units/Beds Commitment Balance Est. Completion
New York 72 $ 42,669 $ 31,742 1Q23
Austin 196 39,500 26,555 1Q23 - 2Q23
Dallas 112 38,054 18,570 1Q23
Coventry 76 18,494 14,191 1Q23
Meadville, P A 128 13,996 13,996 1Q23
Dallas 47 13,940 7,118 1Q23
Charlotte 328 91,836 68,821 2Q23 - 3Q23
Austin 188 36,215 31,111 2Q23 - 3Q23
Barnstable Town, MA 120 31,761 31,761 2Q23
Hartford 128 22,362 22,362 2Q23
Hartford 122 20,949 20,949 2Q23
Boston 167 82,446 36,421 3Q23
Phoenix 199 54,754 23,282 3Q23 - 4Q23
Phoenix 204 53,400 24,576 3Q23 - 4Q23
Naples, FL 188 56,910 9,368 4Q23 - 1Q24
Tampa 206 52,493 8,376 4Q23 - 1Q24
Houston 130 32,075 12,504 4Q23 - 1Q24
Kansas City 134 21,279 21,279 4Q23
Cincinnati 122 18,206 5,808 1Q24
Dallas 52 16,531 5,511 1Q24 - 2Q24
Washington D.C. 302 173,548 82,606 2Q24
Boston 160 148,590 72,106 2Q24
Washington D.C. 137 126,200 43,966 2Q24
Killeen, TX 256 66265 9,175 3Q24
3,774 $ 1,272,473 642,154  
Austin 5,360 
Austin 4,161 
Baltimore 10,741 
Boise, ID 35,557 
Boise, ID 13,323 
Boise, ID 5,889 
Boston 10,416 
Columbus, OH 15,742 
Dallas 4,642 
Detroit 1,931 
Kansas City 15,869 
Raleigh, NC 3,733 
Sacramento 5,160 
Sherman, TX 5,947 
Toronto 49,702 
Total $ 830,327 
Final units/beds, commitment amount and expected conversion date not yet known.
 Estimated completion ranges relate to projects to be delivered in phases.
Interest expense represents secured debt interest expense, which fluctuates based on the net effect and timing of assumptions, segment transitions, fluctuations in
foreign currency rates, extinguishments and principal amortizations. The fluctuations in loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt is primarily attributable to the volume of
extinguishments and terms of the related secured debt. The following is a summary of our Seniors Housing Operating segment property secured debt principal activity
(dollars in thousands):(2)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1) 
(2)
62
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended
December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.
 Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate
Beginning balance $ 1,599,522 2.81% $ 1,706,189 3.05% $ 2,115,037 3.54%
Debt transferred in 32,478 4.79% — —% — —%
Debt issued 113,183 4.71% 23,569 2.83% 62,055 2.55%
Debt assumed 288,522 4.38% — —% — —%
Debt extinguished (227,910) 4.34% (77,959) 6.14% (441,208) 2.18%
Principal payments (47,399) 3.27% (50,603) 3.03% (48,498) 3.30%
Foreign currency (56,457) 3.27% (1,674) 2.67% 18,803 2.93%
Ending balance $ 1,701,939 4.32% $ 1,599,522 2.81% $ 1,706,189 3.05%
Monthly averages $ 1,637,810 3.43% $ 1,649,485 2.88% $ 1,875,910 3.19%
The majority of our Seniors Housing Operating properties are formed through partnership interests. Income from unconsolidated entities recognized during the year
ended December 31, 2021 includes a gain recognized from the sale of a home health business owned by one of our unconsolidated entities. Net income attributable to
noncontrolling interests represents our partners’ share of net income (loss) related to joint ventures. The decrease compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 relates
primarily to our partners' share of reserves for previously recognized straight-line receivables.
Triple-net 
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the Triple-net segment for the years presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
 December 31, December 31,   December 31,     
 2022 2021 $ % 2020 $ % $ %
Revenues:          
Rental income $ 782,329 $ 761,441 $ 20,888 3 % $ 733,776 $ 27,665 4 % $ 48,553 7 %
Interest income 142,402 124,540 17,862 14 % 62,625 61,915 99 % 79,777 127 %
Other income 6,776 4,603 2,173 47 % 4,903 (300) -6 % 1,873 38 %
Total revenues 931,507 890,584 40,923 5 % 801,304 89,280 11 % 130,203 16 %
Property operating expenses 44,483 49,462 (4,979) -10 % 53,183 (3,721) -7 % (8,700) -16 %
NOI 887,024 841,122 45,902 5 % 748,121 93,001 12 % 138,903 19 %
Other expenses:    
Depreciation and amortization 215,887 220,699 (4,812) -2 % 232,604 (11,905) -5 % (16,717) -7 %
Interest expense 963 6,376 (5,413) -85 % 9,477 (3,101) -33 % (8,514) -90 %
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net 8,334 (7,333) 15,667 214 % 11,049 (18,382) -166 % (2,715) -25 %
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 80 — 80 n/a — — n/a 80 n/a
Provision for loan losses, net 9,289 10,339 (1,050) -10 % 90,563 (80,224) -89 % (81,274) -90 %
Impairment of assets 3,595 26,579 (22,984) -86 % 34,867 (8,288) -24 % (31,272) -90 %
Other expenses 13,043 4,189 8,854 211 % 22,923 (18,734) -82 % (9,880) -43 %
 251,191 260,849 (9,658) -4 % 401,483 (140,634) -35 % (150,292) -37 %
Income from continuing operations before income taxes and
other items 635,833 580,273 55,560 10 % 346,638 233,635 67 % 289,195 83 %
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities 34,495 20,687 13,808 67 % 18,462 2,225 12 % 16,033 87 %
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 16,648 135,881 (119,233) -88 % 64,288 71,593 111 % (47,640) -74 %
Income from continuing operations 686,976 736,841 (49,865) -7 % 429,388 307,453 72 % 257,588 60 %
Net income 686,976 736,841 (49,865) -7 % 429,388 307,453 72 % 257,588 60 %
Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 28,958 35,653 (6,695) -19 % 39,985 (4,332) -11 % (11,027) -28 %
Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 658,018 $ 701,188 $ (43,170) -6 % $ 389,403 $ 311,785 80 % $ 268,615 69 %
 See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below.
Rental income has increased primarily due to the timing of the establishment of reserves for straight-line rent receivable balances relating to leases for which
collection of substantially all contractual lease payments is no longer deemed probable. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded reserves for previously
recognized straight-line rent receivables of $49,241,000 which resulted in reduced rental income for the period. Offsetting the impact of straight-line changes, we have
disposed of ten properties with a book value of $89,827,000 during 2022 and 51 properties with a book value of $486,369,000 during 2021.(1)
(1)
63
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Certain of our leases contain annual rental escalators that are contingent upon changes in the Consumer Price Index and/or changes in the gross operating revenues of
the tenant’s properties. These escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental income is recorded based on the contractual cash rental
payments due for the period. If gross operating revenues at our facilities and/or the Consumer Price Index do not increase, a portion of our revenues may not continue to
increase. For the year ended December 31, 2022, we had 50 leases with rental rate increasers ranging from 0.26% to 57.76% in our Triple-net portfolio. Our Triple-net
operators are experiencing similar impacts on occupancy and operating costs due to the COVID-19 pandemic as described above with respect to our Seniors Housing
Operating properties. Long-term/post-acute facilities have generally experienced a higher degree of occupancy declines, which in some cases impacted the ability of our
Triple-net operators to make contractual rent payments to us. However, many of our Triple-net operators received funds under the CARES Act Paycheck Protection
Program and Provider Relief Fund.
The increase to interest income during the year ended December 31, 2022 is primarily driven by interest recognized on senior loan financings of £540,000,000 made
to affiliates of Safanad as part of the recapitalization of its investment in HC-One Group during the second quarter of 2021. Additionally, during the year ended
December 31, 2021, we recognized a provision for loan losses under the current expected credit losses accounting standard, primarily related to the initial recognition of
that loan. The provision for loan loss recognized during the year ended December 31, 2022 is primarily related to $11,714,000 of specific reserves recognized on a held
to maturity debt security, offset by the release of previously established allowances for credit losses due to loan repayments.
The following is a summary of our SSNOI at Welltower's Share for the Triple-net segment (dollars in thousands):
 QTD Pool YTD Pool
Three Months Ended Change Year Ended Change
 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 $ % December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 $ %
SSNOI $ 127,296 $ 122,059 $ 5,237 4.3 % $ 455,823 $ 433,826 $ 21,997 5.1 %
 Relates to 427 properties for the QTD Pool and 398 properties for the YTD Pool. Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information and reconciliations.
Depreciation and amortization fluctuate as a result of the acquisitions, dispositions and transitions of triple-net properties. To the extent we acquire or dispose of
additional properties in the future, our provision for depreciation and amortization will change accordingly.
During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded impairment charges of $3,595,000 related to two held for use properties. During the year ended December 31,
2021, we recorded impairment charges of $26,579,000 related to four held for sale or sold properties and two held for use properties. Transaction costs related to asset
acquisitions are capitalized as a component of purchase price. The fluctuation in other expenses is primarily due to noncapitalizable transaction costs from acquisitions
and segment transitions. Changes in the gain on sales of properties are related to the volume and timing of property sales and the sales prices.
During the year ended December 31, 2022, there were no Triple-net construction projects completed; however, four projects transitioned out of the Triple-net segment
and into the Seniors Housing Operating segment. Additionally, one project transitioned from consolidated to unconsolidated. The following is a summary of our
consolidated Triple-net construction projects, excluding expansions, pending as of December 31, 2022 (dollars in thousands):
Location Units/Beds Commitment Balance Est. Completion
Raleigh 191 $ 154,142 $ 120,01 1 2Q23
During the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net is primarily attributable to the mark-to-market of the
equity warrants received as part of the Safanad/HC-One transaction that closed in the second quarter of 2021. In addition, the mark-to-market adjustment on our Genesis
Healthcare available-for-sale investment is reflected in all periods.
Interest expense represents secured debt interest expense and related fees. The change in secured debt interest expense is due to the net effect and timing of
assumptions, segment transitions, fluctuations in foreign currency rates, extinguishments and principal amortizations. The following is a summary of our Triple-net
secured debt principal activity for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):(1)
(1)
64
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended
December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.
 Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate
Beginning balance $ 72,536 4.57% $ 123,652 4.91% $ 306,038 3.60%
Debt assumed 39,574 16.68% — —% — —%
Debt extinguished (39,574) 16.68% (46,402) 5.43% (176,875) 2.03%
Debt transferred out (32,478) 4.79% — —% — —%
Principal payments (879) 4.37% (4,679) 5.14% (4,376) 5.16%
Foreign currency — —% (35) 5.43% (1,135) 2.97%
Ending balance $ 39,179 4.39% $ 72,536 4.57% $ 123,652 4.91%
Monthly averages $ 39,584 4.39% $ 117,966 4.90% $ 215,796 3.85%
A portion of our Triple-net properties were formed through partnerships. Income or loss from unconsolidated entities represents our share of net income or losses from
partnerships where we are the noncontrolling partner. The increase in income from unconsolidated entities during the year ended December 31, 2022 is primarily related
to the write off of a right of use asset and related lease liability on an unconsolidated joint venture that was restructured during the year. Net income attributable to
noncontrolling interests represents our partners’ share of net income relating to those partnerships where we are the controlling partner. The decrease in net income
attributable to noncontrolling interests for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to 2021 is related to the increase in ownership in existing Triple-net joint
ventures.
Outpatient Medical 
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the Outpatient Medical segment for the periods presented (dollars in thousands): 
  Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
  December 31, December 31,   December 31,     
  2022 2021 $ % 2020 $ % $ %
Revenues:          
 Rental income $ 669,457 $ 613,254 $ 56,203 9 % $ 709,584 $ (96,330) -14 % $ (40,127) -6 %
 Interest income 302 8,792 (8,490) -97 % 5,913 2,879 49 % (5,611) -95 %
 Other income 8,998 13,243 (4,245) -32 % 4,522 8,721 193 % 4,476 99 %
 Total revenues 678,757 635,289 43,468 7 % 720,019 (84,730) -12 % (41,262) -6 %
Property operating expenses 205,997 186,939 19,058 10 % 214,948 (28,009) -13 % (8,951) -4 %
 NOI 472,760 448,350 24,410 5 % 505,071 (56,721) -11 % (32,311) -6 %
Other expenses:       
 Depreciation and amortization 239,681 223,302 16,379 7 % 261,371 (38,069) -15 % (21,690) -8 %
 Interest expense 18,078 17,506 572 3 % 17,579 (73) — % 499 3 %
 Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 15 (4) 19 475 % 1,046 (1,050) -100 % (1,031) -99 %
 Provision for loan losses, net (8) (3,463) 3,455 100 % 3,202 (6,665) -208 % (3,210) -100 %
 Impairment of assets 761 2,211 (1,450) -66 % — 2,211 n/a 761 n/a
 Other expenses 2,537 2,523 14 1 % 8,218 (5,695) -69 % (5,681) -69 %
  261,064 242,075 18,989 8 % 291,416 (49,341) -17 % (30,352) -10 %
Income from continuing operations before income taxes
and other item 211,696 206,275 5,421 3 % 213,655 (7,380) -3 % (1,959) -1 %
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities (2,467) (4,395) 1,928 44 % 7,312 (11,707) -160 % (9,779) -134 %
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net (6,399) 93,348 (99,747) -107 % 695,918 (602,570) -87 % (702,317) -101 %
Income from continuing operations 202,830 295,228 (92,398) -31 % 916,885 (621,657) -68 % (714,055) -78 %
Net income (loss) 202,830 295,228 (92,398) -31 % 916,885 (621,657) -68 % (714,055) -78 %
Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling
interests 7,180 4,916 2,264 46 % (278) 5,194 n/a 7,458 n/a
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 195,650 $ 290,312 $ (94,662) -33 % $ 917,163 $ (626,851) -68 % $ (721,513) -79 %
 See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below.
Rental income has increased due primarily to acquisitions and construction conversions that occurred during 2021 and 2022. Certain of our leases contain annual
rental escalators that are contingent upon changes in the Consumer Price Index. These escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental
income is recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. If the Consumer Price Index does not increase, a portion of our revenues may not
continue to increase. Our leases could renew above or below current rental rates, resulting in an increase or decrease in rental income. For the year ended December 31,
2022, our consolidated Outpatient Medical portfolio signed 435,000 square feet of new leases and 1,826,000 square feet of renewals. The weighted-average term of
these leases was seven years, with a rate of $38.19 per square foot and tenant improvement and lease commission costs of $26.77 per square foot. Substantially all of
these leases contain an annual fixed or contingent escalation rent structure ranging from 1.0% to 7.0%.(1)
(1)
65
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The decrease in interest income for the year ended December 31, 2022 is due primarily to a $178,207,000 first mortgage initiated in August 2020, which was
subsequently repaid in full in June of 2021, resulting in the reversal of the previously established allowance for credit losses.
The fluctuation in property operating expenses and depreciation and amortization are primarily attributable to acquisitions and construction conversions that occurred
during 2021 and 2022. To the extent that we acquire or dispose of additional properties in the future, these amounts will change accordingly.
The following is a summary of our SSNOI at Welltower Share for the Outpatient Medical segment (dollars in thousands):
 QTD Pool YTD Pool
Three Months Ended Change Year Ended Change
 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 $ % December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 $ %
SSNOI $ 107,867 $ 105,260 $ 2,607 2.5 % $ 403,520 $ 395,379 $ 8,141 2.1 %
 Relates to 361 properties for the QTD Pool and 349 properties for the YTD Pool. Please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information and reconciliations.
During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recognized an impairment charge of $761,000 related to one held for use property. During the year ended December
31, 2021, we recognized an impairment charge of $2,211,000 related to one held for sale property. Transaction costs related to asset acquisitions are capitalized as a
component of purchase price. The fluctuation in other expenses is primarily due to noncapitalizable transaction costs. Changes in gains/losses on sales of properties are
related to volume of property sales and the sales prices.
During the year ended December 31, 2022, we completed two Outpatient Medical construction projects representing $44,778,000 or $383 per square foot. The
following is a summary of our consolidated Outpatient Medical construction projects, excluding expansions, pending as of December 31, 2022 (dollars in thousands):
Location Square Feet Commitment Balance Est. Completion
Houston 16,835 $ 9,935 $ 5,796 1Q23
Beaumont-Port Arthur , TX 33,000 11,822 5,525 2Q23
Houston 16,830 9,077 4,328 2Q23
66,665 $ 30,834 15,649  
Charlotte, NC 33,376 
$ 49,025 
Final square feet, commitment amount and expected conversion date not yet known.
Total interest expense represents secured debt interest expense. The change in secured debt interest expense is primarily due to the net effect and timing of
assumptions, extinguishments and principal amortizations. The following is a summary of our Outpatient Medical secured debt principal activity for the periods
presented (dollars in thousands):
Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended
December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.
 Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate
Beginning balance $ 530,254 3.49% $ 548,229 3.55% $ 572,267 3.97%
Debt extinguished (131,582) 4.26% (7,670) 5.64% (14,205) 5.34%
Principal payments (9,836) 4.45% (10,305) 4.43% (9,833) 4.60%
Ending balance $ 388,836 4.38% $ 530,254 3.49% $ 548,229 3.55%
Monthly averages $ 485,161 3.89% $ 540,947 3.52% $ 562,017 3.72%
A portion of our Outpatient Medical properties were formed through partnerships. Income or loss from unconsolidated entities represents our share of net income or
losses from partnerships where we are the noncontrolling partner. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests represents our partners’ share of net income or loss
relating to those partnerships where we are the controlling partner.(1)
(1)
(1)
(1) 
66
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Non-Segment/Corporate
The following is a summary of our results of operations for the Non-Segment/Corporate activities for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
 December 31, December 31,   December 31,     
 2022 2021 $ % 2020 $ % $ %
Revenues:          
Other income $ 4,934 $ 2,992 $ 1,942 65 % $ 2,781 $ 211 8 % $ 2,153 77 %
Total revenues 4,934 2,992 1,942 65 % 2,781 211 8 % 2,153 77 %
Property operating expenses 16,245 8,817 7,428 84 % 3,381 5,436 161 % 12,864 380 %
NOI (11,311) (5,825) (5,486) -94 % (600) (5,225) -871 % (10,711) n/a
Other expenses:    
Interest expense 475,645 426,644 49,001 11 % 432,431 (5,787) -1 % 43,214 10 %
General and administrative expenses 150,390 126,727 23,663 19 % 128,394 (1,667) -1 % 21,996 17 %
Loss (gain) on extinguishments of debt, net 199 52,506 (52,307) -100 % 33,344 19,162 57 % (33,145) -99 %
Other expenses 20,064 7,895 12,169 154 % 24,929 (17,034) -68 % (4,865) -20 %
Total expenses 646,298 613,772 32,526 5 % 619,098 (5,326) -1 % 27,200 4 %
Loss from continuing operations before income taxes and
other items (657,609) (619,597) (38,012) -6 % (619,698) 101 — % (37,911) -6 %
Income tax (expense) benefit (7,247) (8,713) 1,466 17 % (9,968) 1,255 13 % 2,721 27 %
Loss from continuing operations (664,856) (628,310) (36,546) -6 % (629,666) 1,356 — % (35,190) -6 %
Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (664,856)$ (628,310)$ (36,546) -6 % $ (629,666)$ 1,356 — % $ (35,190) -6 %
 See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below.
Property operating expenses represent insurance costs related to our captive insurance company formed as of July 1, 2020, which acts as a direct insurer of property
level insurance coverage for our portfolio.
The following is a summary of our Non-Segment/Corporate interest expense for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended One Year Change Year Ended One Year Change Two Year Change
 December 31, December 31,   December 31,     
 2022 2021 $ % 2020 $ % $ %
Senior unsecured notes $ 436,185 $ 401,247 $ 34,938 9 % $ 400,014 $ 1,233 — % $ 36,171 9 %
Unsecured credit facility and commercial
paper program 19,576 6,759 12,817 190 % 15,313 (8,554) -56 % 4,263 28 %
Loan expense 19,884 18,638 1,246 7 % 17,104 1,534 9 % 2,780 16 %
Totals $ 475,645 $ 426,644 $ 49,001 11 % $ 432,431 $ (5,787) -1 % $ 43,214 10 %
The change in interest expense on senior unsecured notes is due to the net effect of issuances and extinguishments, as well as the movement in foreign exchange rates
and related hedge activity. Please refer to Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. The change in interest expense on our unsecured
revolving credit facility and commercial paper program is due primarily to the net effect and timing of draws, paydowns and variable interest rate changes. Please refer
to Note 10 of our consolidated financial statements for additional information. Loan expenses represent the amortization of costs incurred in connection with senior
unsecured notes issuances. The loss on extinguishment recognized during the year ended December 31, 2021 is due primarily to the early extinguishment of
$339,128,000 of our 3.75% senior unsecured notes due March 2023 and $334,624,000 of our 3.95% senior unsecured notes due September 2023.
General and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 were 2.57%, 2.67% and 2.79%,
respectively. Other expenses includes non-capitalizable legal expenses, including related to our umbrella partnership REIT reorganization during 2022. The provision
for income taxes primarily relates to state taxes, foreign taxes and taxes based on income generated by entities that are structured as TRSs.
Other
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We believe that net income and net income attributable to common stockholders, as defined by U.S. GAAP, are the most appropriate earnings measurements.
However, we consider FFO, NOI, SSNOI, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA to be useful supplemental measures of our operating performance. Historical cost accounting
for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time as evidenced by the
provision for depreciation. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have
considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. In response, the National Association of Real
Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”) created funds from operations attributable to common stockholders (“FFO”) as a supplemental measure of operating performance
for REITs that(1)
(1)
67
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
excludes historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO, as defined by NAREIT, means NICS, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP, excluding gains (or losses)
from sales of real estate and impairment of depreciable assets, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated entities and noncontrolling
interests.
NOI is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties. We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property operating
expenses. Property operating expenses represent costs associated with managing, maintaining and servicing tenants for our properties. These expenses include, but are
not limited to, property-related payroll and benefits, property management fees paid to operators, marketing, housekeeping, food service, maintenance, utilities, property
taxes and insurance. General and administrative expenses represent general overhead costs that are unrelated to property operations and unallocable to the
properties. These expenses include, but are not limited to, payroll and benefits related to corporate employees, professional services, office expenses and depreciation of
corporate fixed assets. Same store NOI (“SSNOI”) is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties using a consistent population which controls for
changes in the composition of our portfolio. We believe the drivers of property level NOI for both consolidated properties and unconsolidated properties are generally
the same and therefore, we evaluate SSNOI based on our ownership interest in each property ("Welltower Share"). To arrive at Welltower's Share, NOI is adjusted by
adding our minority ownership share related to unconsolidated properties and by subtracting the minority partners' noncontrolling ownership interests for consolidated
properties. We do not control investments in unconsolidated properties and while we consider disclosures at Welltower Share to be useful, they may not accurately
depict the legal and economic implications of our joint venture arrangements and should be used with caution. As used herein, same store is generally defined as those
revenue-generating properties in the portfolio for the relevant year-over-year reporting periods. Acquisitions and development conversions are included in SSNOI five
full quarters or eight full quarters after acquisition or being placed into service for the QTD Pool and the YTD Pool, respectively. Land parcels, loans and sub-leases, as
well as any properties sold or classified as held for sale during the respective periods are excluded from SSNOI. Redeveloped properties (including major
refurbishments of a Seniors Housing Operating property where 20% or more of units are simultaneously taken out of commission for 30 days or more or Outpatient
Medical properties undergoing a change in intended use) are excluded from SSNOI until five full quarters or eight full quarters post completion of the redevelopment
for the QTD Pool and YTD Pool, respectively. Properties undergoing operator transitions and/or segment transitions are also excluded from SSNOI until five full
quarters or eight full quarters post completion of the transition for the QTD Pool and YTD Pool, respectively. In addition, properties significantly impacted by force
majeure, acts of God, or other extraordinary adverse events are excluded from SSNOI until five full quarters or eight full quarters after the properties are placed back
into service for the QTD Pool and YTD Pool, respectively. SSNOI excludes non-cash NOI and includes adjustments to present consistent ownership percentages and to
translate Canadian properties and U.K. properties using a consistent exchange rate. We believe NOI and SSNOI provide investors relevant and useful information
because they measure the operating performance of our properties at the property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI and SSNOI to make decisions about
resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our properties.
EBITDA is defined as earnings (net income) before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA excluding unconsolidated
entities and including adjustments for stock-based compensation expense, provision for loan losses, gains/losses on extinguishment of debt, gains/loss/impairments on
properties, gains/losses on derivatives and financial instruments, other expenses, other impairment charges and other adjustments as deemed appropriate. We believe that
EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, along with net income, are important supplemental measures because they provide additional information to assess and evaluate the
performance of our operations. We primarily use these measures to determine our interest coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA divided by
total interest, and our fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA divided by fixed charges. Fixed charges include total interest and
secured debt principal amortization. Covenants in our unsecured senior notes and primary credit facility contain financial ratios based on a definition of EBITDA and
Adjusted EBITDA that is specific to those agreements. Our leverage ratios are defined as the proportion of net debt to total capitalization and include book
capitalization, undepreciated book capitalization and market capitalization. Book capitalization represents the sum of net debt (defined as total long-term debt, excluding
operating lease liabilities, less cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash), total equity and redeemable noncontrolling interests. Undepreciated book capitalization
represents book capitalization adjusted for accumulated depreciation and amortization. Market capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for the fair market
value of our common stock.
Our supplemental reporting measures and similarly entitled financial measures are widely used by investors, equity and debt analysts and rating agencies in the
valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies. Management uses these financial measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons
to our historical operating results and in making operating decisions. Additionally, these measures are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management. None
of our supplemental measures represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be
considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, the supplemental measures, as defined by us, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items
reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies.
68
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The table below reflects the reconciliation of FFO to NICS, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented. Noncontrolling interest and
unconsolidated entity amounts represent adjustments to reflect our share of depreciation and amortization, gains/loss on real estate dispositions and impairment of
assets. Amounts are in thousands except for per share data.
 Year Ended December 31,
FFO Reconciliation: 2022 2021 2020
Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 141,214 $ 336,138 $ 978,844 
Depreciation and amortization 1,310,368 1,037,566 1,038,437 
Impairment of assets 17,502 51,107 135,608 
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net (16,043) (235,375) (1,088,455)
Noncontrolling interests (56,529) (54,190) (23,968)
Unconsolidated entities 81,560 85,476 62,096 
Funds from operations attributable to common stockholders $ 1,478,072 $ 1,220,722 $ 1,102,562 
Average diluted shares outstanding: 465,158 426,841 417,387 
Per diluted share data:    
Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 0.30 $ 0.78 $ 2.33 
Funds from operations attributable to common stockholders $ 3.18 $ 2.86 $ 2.64 
(1) Includes adjustment to the numerator for income (loss) attributable to OP unitholders.
The following tables reflect the reconciliation of consolidated NOI to net income, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the years presented. Dollar
amounts are in thousands.
 Year Ended December 31,
NOI Reconciliation: 2022 2021 2020
Net income (loss) $ 160,568 $ 374,479 $ 1,038,852 
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net (16,043) (235,375) (1,088,455)
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities 21,290 22,933 8,083 
Income tax expense (benefit) 7,247 8,713 9,968 
Other expenses 101,670 41,739 70,335 
Impairment of assets 17,502 51,107 135,608 
Provision for loan losses, net 10,320 7,270 94,436 
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 680 49,874 47,049 
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net 8,334 (7,333) 11,049 
General and administrative expenses 150,390 126,727 128,394 
Depreciation and amortization 1,310,368 1,037,566 1,038,437 
Interest expense 529,519 489,853 514,388 
Consolidated net operating income (NOI) $ 2,301,845 $ 1,967,553 $ 2,008,144 
NOI by segment:    
Seniors Housing Operating $ 953,372 $ 683,906 $ 755,552 
Triple-net 887,024 841,122 748,121 
Outpatient Medical 472,760 448,350 505,071 
Non-segment/corporate (11,311) (5,825) (600)
Total NOI $ 2,301,845 $ 1,967,553 $ 2,008,144 (1)
69
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Quarterly NOI by Segment:
(in thousands) Three Months Ended Year Ended
 March 31,  June 30,  September 30,  December 31, December 31,
2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
Seniors Housing Operating:
Total revenues $ 996,612 $ 726,402 $ 1,071,210 $ 742,549 $ 1,072,600 $ 839,519 $ 1,104,995 $ 904,780 $ 4,245,417 $ 3,213,250 
Property operating expenses 789,928 555,968 789,299 582,361 841,914 666,610 870,904 724,405 3,292,045 2,529,344 
Consolidated NOI $ 206,684 $ 170,434 $ 281,91 1 $ 160,188 $ 230,686 $ 172,909 $ 234,091 $ 180,375 $ 953,372 $ 683,906 
Triple-net:
Total revenues $ 235,163 $ 168,482 $ 234,360 $ 238,941 $ 228,819 $ 239,985 $ 233,165 $ 243,176 $ 931,507 $ 890,584 
Property operating expenses 11,211 12,841 11,491 12,627 11,495 11,664 10,286 12,330 44,483 49,462 
Consolidated NOI $ 223,952 $ 155,641 $ 222,869 $ 226,314 $ 217,324 $ 228,321 $ 222,879 $ 230,846 $ 887,024 $ 841,122 
Outpatient Medical:
Total revenues $ 163,323 $ 156,223 $ 166,322 $ 159,072 $ 172,178 $ 159,503 $ 176,934 $ 160,491 $ 678,757 $ 635,289 
Property operating expenses 49,915 46,863 50,648 45,495 52,921 48,072 52,513 46,509 205,997 186,939 
Consolidated NOI $ 113,408 $ 109,360 $ 115,674 $ 113,577 $ 119,257 $ 111,431 $ 124,421 $ 113,982 $ 472,760 $ 448,350 
Corporate:
Total revenues $ 606 $ 955 $ 644 $ 430 $ 247 $ 790 $ 3,437 $ 817 $ 4,934 $ 2,992 
Property operating expenses 2,615 1,654 2,645 2,174 5,850 3,054 5,135 1,935 16,245 8,817 
Consolidated NOI $ (2,009) $ (699) $ (2,001) $ (1,744) $ (5,603) $ (2,264) $ (1,698) $ (1,118) $ (11,311) $ (5,825)
The following is a reconciliation of the properties included in our QTD Pool and YTD Pool for SSNOI:
QTD Pool YTD Pool
SSNOI Property Reconciliations:Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-netOutpatient
Medical TotalSeniors Housing
Operating Triple-netOutpatient
Medical Total
Consolidated properties 850 570 323 1,743 850 570 323 1,743
Unconsolidated properties 104 39 79 222 104 39 79 222
Total properties 954 609 402 1,965 954 609 402 1,965
Recent acquisitions/development
    conversions (114) (11) (24) (149) (254) (40) (36) (330
Under development (40) — (5) (45) (40) — (5) (45
Under redevelopment (4) (3) (4) (11) (4) (3) (4) (11
Current held for sale (3) (7) (1) (11) (3) (7) (1) (11
Land parcels, loans and subleases (24) (8) (7) (39) (24) (8) (7) (39
Transitions (108) (150) — (258) (108) (150) — (258
Other (7) (3) — (10) (7) (3) — (10
Same store properties 654 427 361 1,442 514 398 349 1,261
 Acquisitions and development conversions will enter the QTD Pool and YTD Pool five full quarters and eight full quarters after acquisition or certificate of occupancy , respectively .
 Redevelopment properties will enter the QTD Pool and YTD Pool after five full quarters and eight full quarters of operations post redevelopment completion, respectively .
 Transitioned properties will enter the QTD Pool and YTD Pool after five full quarters and eight full quarters of operations with the new operator in place or under the new structure, respectively .
 Represents properties that are either closed or being closed.(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
70
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following is a reconciliation of our consolidated NOI to same store NOI for the periods presented for the respective pools. Dollar amounts are in thousands.
QTD Pool YTD Pool
Three Months Ended Twelve Months Ended
SSNOI Reconciliations: December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
Seniors Housing Operating:  
Consolidated NOI $ 234,091 $ 180,375 $ 953,372 $ 683,906
NOI attributable to unconsolidated investments 11,291 10,713 47,190 44,470
NOI attributable to noncontrolling interests (16,718) (12,125) (122,874) (65,747
Non-cash NOI attributable to same store properties (196) (662) (747) 10,878
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (46,511) (22,024) (270,363) (121,779
Currency and ownership adjustments 2,759 (669) 4,146 (2,856
SSNOI at Welltower Share 184,716 155,608 610,724 548,872
Triple-net:
Consolidated NOI 222,879 230,846 887,024 841,122
NOI attributable to unconsolidated investments 8,947 4,893 29,516 19,559
NOI attributable to noncontrolling interests (9,555) (13,600) (41,099) (48,892
Non-cash NOI attributable to same store properties (11,592) (8,310) (37,190) (27,000
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (86,076) (92,708) (389,905) (352,792
Currency and ownership adjustments 2,693 938 7,477 1,829
SSNOI at Welltower Share 127,296 122,059 455,823 433,826
Outpatient Medical:
Consolidated NOI 124,421 113,982 472,760 448,350
NOI attributable to unconsolidated investments 4,712 4,682 19,233 18,998
NOI attributable to noncontrolling interests (5,576) (4,896) (22,089) (18,645
Non-cash NOI attributable to same store properties (4,287) (3,523) (10,323) (10,384
NOI attributable to non-same store properties (11,250) (5,298) (56,001) (42,089
Currency and ownership adjustments (153) 313 (60) (851
SSNOI at Welltower Share 107,867 105,260 403,520 395,379
SSNOI at Welltower Share:
Seniors Housing Operating 184,716 155,608 610,724 548,872
Triple-net 127,296 122,059 455,823 433,826
Outpatient Medical 107,867 105,260 403,520 395,379
Total $ 419,879 $ 382,927 $ 1,470,067 $ 1,378,077
 Includes adjustments to reflect consistent property ownership percentages, to translate Canadian properties at a USD/CAD rate of 1.2738 and to translate U.K. properties at a GBP/USD rate of 1.3501.(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
71
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The table below reflects the reconciliation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA to net income, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods
presented. Dollars are in thousands.
 Year Ended December 31,
Adjusted EBITDA  Reconciliation: 2022 2021 2020
Net income (loss) $ 160,568 $ 374,479 $ 1,038,852 
Interest expense 529,519 489,853 514,388 
Income tax expense (benefit) 7,247 8,713 9,968 
Depreciation and amortization 1,310,368 1,037,566 1,038,437 
EBITDA 2,007,702 1,910,61 1 2,601,645 
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities 21,290 22,933 8,083 
Stock-based compensation expense 26,027 16,933 22,154 
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 680 49,874 47,049 
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net (16,043) (235,375) (1,088,455)
Impairment of assets 17,502 51,107 135,608 
Provision for loan losses, net 10,320 7,270 94,436 
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net 8,334 (7,333) 11,049 
Other expenses 101,670 41,739 70,335 
Lease termination and leasehold interest adjustment (64,854) 760 — 
Casualty losses, net of recoveries 10,391 5,786 — 
Other impairment, net (620) 49,241 146,508 
Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,122,399 $ 1,913,546 $ 2,048,412 
Adjusted Inter est Coverage Ratio:    
Interest expense $ 529,519 $ 489,853 $ 514,388 
Capitalized interest 30,491 19,352 17,472 
Non-cash interest expense (21,754) (17,506) (15,751)
Total interest 538,256 491,699 516,109 
EBITDA $ 2,007,702 $ 1,910,61 1 $ 2,601,645 
Interest coverage ratio 3.73x 3.89x 5.04x
Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,122,399 $ 1,913,546 $ 2,048,412 
Adjusted interest coverage ratio 3.94x 3.89x 3.97x
Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio:    
Total interest $ 538,256 $ 491,699 $ 516,109 
Secured debt principal payments 58,114 65,587 62,707 
Total fixed char ges 596,370 557,286 578,816 
EBITDA $ 2,007,702 $ 1,910,61 1 $ 2,601,645 
Fixed char ge coverage ratio 3.37x 3.43x 4.49x
Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,122,399 $ 1,913,546 $ 2,048,412 
Adjusted fixed char ge coverage ratio 3.56x 3.43x 3.54x
 Represents revenues and property operating expenses associated with a leasehold portfolio interest relating to 26 properties assumed by a wholly-owned affiliate in conjunction with the Holiday Retirement
transaction. Subsequent to the initial transaction, we purchased eight of the leased properties and one of the properties was sold by the landlord and removed from the lease. No rent was paid in excess of net cash
flow relating to the leasehold properties and therefore, the net impact has been excluded from Adjusted EBITDA. Additionally, in conjunction with the lease termination, during the year ended December 31,
2022, we recognized $58,621,000 in other income from the derecognition of the right of use asset and related lease liability which has also been excluded from Adjusted EBITDA.
 Represents the changes in the reserve for straight-line rent receivables balances relating to leases placed on cash recognition.(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
72
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Our leverage ratios include book capitalization, undepreciated book capitalization and market capitalization. Book capitalization represents the sum of net debt
(defined as total long-term debt less cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash), total equity and redeemable noncontrolling interests. Undepreciated book
capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for accumulated depreciation and amortization. Market capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for
the fair market value of our common stock. Our leverage ratios are defined as the proportion of net debt to total capitalization. The table below reflects the reconciliation
of our leverage ratios to our balance sheets for the periods presented. Amounts are in thousands, except share price.
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Book capitalization:    
Unsecured credit facility and commercial paper $ — $ 324,935 $ — 
Long-term debt obligations 14,661,552 13,917,702 13,905,822 
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (722,292) (346,755) (2,021,043)
Total net debt 13,939,260 13,895,882 11,884,779 
Total equity and noncontrolling interests 21,393,996 18,997,873 17,225,062 
Book capitalization $ 35,333,256 $ 32,893,755 $ 29,109,841 
Net debt to book capitalization ratio 39.5 % 42.2 % 40.8 %
Undepr eciated book capitalization:
Total net debt $ 13,939,260 $ 13,895,882 $ 11,884,779 
Accumulated depreciation and amortization 8,075,733 6,910,1 14 6,104,297 
Total equity and noncontrolling interests 21,393,996 18,997,873 17,225,062 
Undepreciated book capitalization $ 43,408,989 $ 39,803,869 $ 35,214,138 
Net debt to undepreciated book capitalization ratio 32.1 % 34.9 % 33.8 %
Market capitalization:
Common shares outstanding 490,509 447,239 417,401 
Period end share price $ 65.55 $ 85.77 $ 64.62 
Common equity market capitalization $ 32,152,865 $ 38,359,689 $ 26,972,453 
Total net debt 13,939,260 13,895,882 11,884,779 
Noncontrolling interests 1,099,182 1,361,872 1,252,343 
Market capitalization: $ 47,191,307 $ 53,617,443 $ 40,109,575 
Net debt to market capitalization ratio 29.5 % 25.9 % 29.6 %
 Amounts include senior unsecured notes, secured debt and lease liabilities related to finance leases, as reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Operating lease liabilities related to the ASC 842 adoption
are excluded.
 Includes amounts attributable to both redeemable noncontrolling interests and noncontrolling interests as reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Critical Accounting Policies & Estimates
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires us to make estimates and assumptions. Management considers an
accounting estimate or assumption critical if:
•the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the
susceptibility of such matters to change; and
•the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material.
Management has discussed the development and selection of its critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Management believes the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements are appropriate and
are not reasonably likely to change in the future. However, since these estimates require assumptions to be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made,
they bear the risk of change. If actual experience differs from the assumptions and other considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in our consolidated
financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. Please
refer to Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for further information on significant accounting policies that impact us and for the impact of new accounting
standards, including accounting pronouncements that were issued but not yet adopted by us.(1)
(2)
(2)
(2)
(1)
(2)
73
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following table presents information about our critical accounting policies and estimates:
Nature of Critical
Accounting EstimateAssumptions/Approach
Used
Impairment of Real Property
Assessing impairment of real property involves subjectivity in determining if
indicators of impairment are present and in estimating the future undiscounted
cash flows or estimated fair value of an asset. In estimating the undiscounted cash
flows or fair value, key assumptions that would be made are the estimation of
future rental revenues, operating expenses, capitalization rates and the ability and
intent to hold the respective asset, all of which are affected by our expectations of
future market or economic conditions. These estimates can have a significant
impact on the undiscounted cash flows or estimated fair value of an asset.Quarterly, we evaluate our real estate investments on a property by property basis to
determine if there are indicators of impairment. These indicators may include
expected operational performance, the tenant's ability to make rent payments, a
decision to dispose of an asset before the end of its estimated useful life and
changes in the market that may permanently reduce the value of the property. If
indicators of impairment exist, an undiscounted cash flow analysis will be prepared
to determine if the value of the real property will be recoverable. If the real property
will not be recoverable, the carrying value of the property is reduce to its estimated
fair value and an impairment charge is recognized for the difference between the
carrying value and the fair value. This analysis requires us to use judgment in
determining whether indicators of impairment exist and to estimate the expected
future undiscounted cash flows or estimated fair values of the property. Properties
that meet the held for sale criteria are recorded at the lesser of the fair value less
costs to sell or carrying value.
At December 31, 2022, our net real property owned was approximately
$32,925,033,000. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded
impairment charges of $13,146,000 related to one Seniors Housing Operating
property which was classified as held for sale for which the carrying values
exceeded the fair values less costs to sell. Additionally, we recorded $4,356,000 of
impairment charges related to two Triple-net properties and one Outpatient Medical
property that were held for use in which the carrying values exceeded the estimated
fair values.
Real Estate Acquisitions
We believe that substantially all of our real estate acquisitions are considered asset
acquisitions for which we record the related real estate acquired (tangible assets
and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities) at cost on a relative fair value
basis. Liabilities assumed and any associated noncontrolling interests are reflected
at fair value. Tangible assets consist primarily of land, building and improvements.
Identifiable intangible assets and liabilities primarily consist of the above or below
market component of in-place leases and the value of in-place leases. The total
amount of other intangible assets acquired is further allocated to in-place lease
values and customer relationship values based on management's evaluation of the
specific characteristics of each tenant's lease and our overall relationship with
respect to that tenant. 
The allocation of the purchase price to the related real estate acquired (tangible
assets and intangible assets and liabilities) involves subjectivity as such allocations
are based on a relative fair value analysis. In determining the fair values that drive
such analysis, we estimate the fair value of each component of the real estate
acquired which generally includes land, buildings and improvements, the above or
below market component of in-place leases and the value of in-place leases.
Significant assumptions used to determine such fair values include comparable land
sales, capitalization rates, discount rates, market rental rates and property operating
data, all of which can be impacted by expectations about future market or economic
conditions. Our estimates of the values of these components affect the amount of
depreciation and amortization we record over the estimated useful life of the
property or the term of the lease.
During the year ended December 31, 2022, we completed $2,306,020,000 of real
estate acquisitions. These transactions were accounted for as asset acquisitions and
the purchase price of each was allocated based on the relative fair values of the
assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
74
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Nature of Critical
Accounting EstimateAssumptions/Approach
Used
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include our accounts, the accounts of our
wholly-owned subsidiaries, and the accounts of joint venture entities in which
we own a majority voting interest with the ability to control operations and
where no substantive participating rights or substantive kick out rights have
been granted to the noncontrolling interests. In addition, we consolidate those
entities deemed to be variable interest entities (“VIEs”) in which we are
determined to be the primary beneficiary. All material intercompany transactions
and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.We make judgments about which entities are VIEs based on an assessment of whether
(i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a controlling financial interest,
or (ii) the equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity’s activities
without additional subordinated financial support. We make judgments with respect to
our level of influence or control of an entity and whether we are (or are not) the
primary beneficiary of a VIE. Consideration of various factors include, but is not
limited to, our ability to direct the activities that most significantly impact the entity's
economic performance, our form of ownership interest, our representation on the
entity's governing body, the size and seniority of our investment, our ability and the
rights of other investors to participate in policy making decisions, replace the manager
and/or liquidate the entity, if applicable. Our ability to correctly assess our influence
or control over an entity at inception of our involvement or on a continuous basis
when determining the primary beneficiary of a VIE affects the presentation of these
entities in our consolidated financial statements. If we perform a primary beneficiary
analysis at a date other than at inception of the VIE, our assumptions may be different
and may result in the identification of a different primary beneficiary.
Allowance for Credit Losses on Loans Receivable
The allowance for credit losses is maintained at a level believed adequate to
absorb potential losses in our loans receivable. The determination of the credit
allowance is based on a quarterly evaluation of all outstanding loans, including
general economic conditions and estimated collectability of loan payments. The determination of the allowance for credit losses is based on a quarterly evaluation
of all outstanding loans, including general economic conditions and estimated
collectability of loan payments. We evaluate the collectability of our loans receivable
based on a combination of factors, including, but not limited to, payment status,
historical loan charge-offs, financial strength of the borrower and guarantors, and
nature, extent and value of the underlying collateral. A loan is considered to have
deteriorated credit quality when, based on current information and events, it is
probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due as scheduled according to
the contractual terms of the loan agreement. For those loans we identified as having
deteriorated credit quality, we determine the amount of credit loss on an individual
basis. Placement on non-accrual status may be required. Consistent with this
definition, all loans on non-accrual are deemed to have deteriorated credit quality. To
the extent circumstances improve and the risk of collectability is diminished, we may
return these loans to income accrual status. While a loan is on non-accrual status, any
cash receipts are applied against the outstanding principal balance. For the remaining
loans, we assess credit loss on a collective pool basis and use our historical loss
experience for similar loans to determine the reserve for credit losses.
During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recognized provision for loan losses of
$10,320,000, which includes a specific reserve for a Triple-net held to maturity debt
security, offset by changes in the reserve based on our historical loss experience.
75
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
We are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We seek to
mitigate the underlying foreign currency exposures with gains and losses on derivative contracts hedging these exposures. We seek to mitigate the effects of fluctuations
in interest rates by matching the terms of new investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. We may or may not elect to use financial
derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. These decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate investments with comparable
borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates. This section is
presented to provide a discussion of the risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. For more information, see
Notes 12 and 17 to our consolidated financial statements.
We historically borrow on our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program to acquire, construct or make loans relating to health care and
seniors housing properties. Then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay the borrowings under our unsecured revolving
credit facility and commercial paper program. We are subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced
or that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. The majority of our borrowings were completed under indentures or
contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. Accordingly, in the event that we are unable to raise additional equity or borrow money
because of these limitations, our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited.
A change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt. Interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value of our fixed
rate debt. Changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on
whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable rate debt or equity or repaid by the sale of assets. To illustrate the impact of changes in the interest rate
markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our fixed rate debt instruments after considering the effects of interest rate swaps, whereby we modeled the change in
net present values arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates to determine the instruments’ change in fair value. The following table summarizes the
analysis performed as of the dates indicated (in thousands):
 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
 Principal balance Change in fair value Principal balance Change in fair value
Senior unsecured notes $ 10,839,782 $ (488,159) $ 11,002,297 $ (1,059,031)
Secured debt 1,448,567 (36,654) 1,490,708 (44,222)
Totals $ 12,288,349 $ (524,813) $ 12,493,005 $ (1,103,253)
Our variable rate debt, including our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, is reflected at fair value. At December 31, 2022, we had
$2,426,134,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt after considering the effects of interest rate swaps. Assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1%
increase in interest rates would result in increased annual interest expense of $24,261,000. At December 31, 2021, we had $1,742,268,000 of outstanding variable rate
debt. Assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would have resulted in increased annual interest expense of $17,423,000.
We are subject to currency fluctuations that may, from time to time, affect our financial condition and results of operations. Increases or decreases in the value of the
Canadian Dollar or British Pounds Sterling relative to the U.S. Dollar impact the amount of net income we earn from our investments in Canada and the United
Kingdom. Based solely on our results for the year ended December 31, 2022, including the impact of existing hedging arrangements, if these exchange rates were to
increase or decrease by 10%, our net income from these investments would increase or decrease, as applicable, by less than $8,000,000. We will continue to mitigate
these underlying foreign currency exposures with non-U.S. denominated borrowings and gains and losses on derivative contracts. If we increase our international
presence through investments in, or acquisitions or development of, seniors housing and health care properties outside the U.S., we may also decide to transact
additional business or borrow funds in currencies other than U.S. Dollars, Canadian Dollars or British Pounds Sterling. To illustrate the impact of changes in foreign
currency markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our derivative portfolio whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a hypothetical 1%
increase in foreign currency exchange rates to determine the instruments’ change in fair value. The following table summarizes the results of the analysis performed
(dollars in thousands):
 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
 Carrying value Change in fair value Carrying value Change in fair value
Foreign currency exchange contracts $ 190,418 $ 14,238 $ 32,280 $ 19,740 
Debt designated as hedges 1,452,832 14,528 1,613,164 16,132 
Totals $ 1,643,250 $ 28,766 $ 1,645,444 $ 35,872 
76
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Welltower Inc. 
Opinion on the Financial Statements 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Welltower Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the related
consolidated statements of comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022, and the related notes and
financial statement schedules listed in the Index at Item 15(a) (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated
financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2022 and 2021 and the results of its operations and its
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 21, 2023 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion 
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements
based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the
U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of
material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included
examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be
communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially
challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial
statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the
accounts or disclosures to which they relate.
    Impairment of Real Property
Description of the Matter    At December 31, 2022, the Company’s net real property owned was approximately $32.9 billion. As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated
financial statements, the Company reviews its real property quarterly on a property-by-property basis to determine if facts and
circumstances suggest that the real property may be impaired. If the undiscounted cash flows indicate that the real property will not be
recoverable, the carrying value of the real property is reduced to its estimated fair value and an impairment charge is recognized for the
difference between the carrying value and the fair value.
Auditing the Company’s process to evaluate real property owned for impairment was complex due to the high degree of subjectivity in
determining whether indicators of impairment were present for certain properties, and in determining the future undiscounted cash flows
and estimated fair values, if necessary, of properties where indicators of impairment were determined to be present. In particular, the
undiscounted cash flows and fair value estimates were sensitive to significant assumptions, including future rental revenues and
operating expenses, capitalization rates, and anticipated hold period, which are affected by expectations about future market or
economic conditions.
77
How We Addressed the
Matter in Our Audit
        We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design, and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the Company’s process to evaluate real property owned
for impairment. This included testing controls over the Company’s review of impairment indicators by property and management's
review and approval of the significant assumptions described above.
To test the Company's evaluation of real property for impairment, we performed audit procedures that included, among others, assessing
the methodologies used by management, evaluating the significant assumptions discussed above and testing the completeness and
accuracy of the underlying data used by the Company in its analyses. We compared the significant assumptions used by management to
current industry and economic trends and evaluated whether changes to the Company’s business and other relevant factors would affect
the significant assumptions. In addition, we assessed the historical accuracy of the Company’s estimates and performed sensitivity
analyses of the significant assumptions to evaluate the changes in the undiscounted future cash flows and estimated fair values of the
property that would result from changes in the significant assumptions.
    Real Estate Acquisitions
Description of the Matter    During the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company completed approximately $2.3 billion of real estate acquisitions. As disclosed in
Note 3 of the consolidated financial statements, the total purchase price for all properties acquired has been allocated to the related real
estate acquired (tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities) based upon their relative fair values.
Auditing the fair values allocated by management to the real estate acquired was complex because the fair value estimates were sensitive
to significant assumptions, including comparable land sales, capitalization rates, discount rates, market rental rates and property
operating data, which can be impacted by expectations about future market or economic conditions.
How We Addressed the
Matter in Our Audit
    We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design, and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the Company’s process to account for real estate
acquisitions, including controls over the Company’s review of the significant assumptions discussed above.
To test the fair values allocated to the real estate acquired, we performed audit procedures that included, among others, assessing the
methodologies used by management and evaluating the significant assumptions used by the Company discussed above. We compared
certain of management’s assumptions to external market data for similar properties and tested the clerical accuracy of the valuation
models. We involved our valuation specialist in our evaluation of the significant assumptions used by the Company and the review of the
valuation models.
/s/  Ernst & Young LLP
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1970.
Toledo, Ohio
February 21, 2023
78
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(in thousands)
December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
Assets  
Real estate investments:   
Real property owned:   
Land and land improvements $ 4,249,834  $ 3,968,430  
Buildings and improvements 33,651,336  31,062,203  
Acquired lease intangibles 1,945,458  1,789,628  
Real property held for sale, net of accumulated depreciation 133,058  134,097  
Construction in progress 1,021,080  651,389  
Less accumulated depreciation and amortization (8,075,733 ) (6,910,1 14)
Net real property owned 32,925,033  30,695,633  
Right of use assets, net 323,942  522,796  
Real estate loans receivable, net of credit allowance 890,844  1,068,681  
Net real estate investments 34,139,819  32,287,1 10 
Other assets:
Investments in unconsolidated entities 1,499,790  1,039,043  
Goodwill 68,321  68,321  
Cash and cash equivalents 631,681  269,265  
Restricted cash 90,61 1 77,490  
Straight-line rent receivable 322,173  365,643  
Receivables and other assets 1,140,838  803,453  
Total other assets 3,753,414  2,623,215  
Total assets $ 37,893,233  $ 34,910,325  
Liabilities and equity
Liabilities:
Unsecured credit facility and commercial paper $ — $ 324,935  
Senior unsecured notes 12,437,273  11,613,758  
Secured debt 2,110,815  2,192,261  
Lease liabilities 415,824  545,944  
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 1,535,325  1,235,554  
Total liabilities 16,499,237  15,912,452  
Redeemable noncontrolling interests 384,443  401,294  
Equity:
Common stock 491,919  448,605  
Capital in excess of par value 26,742,750  23,133,641  
Treasury stock (111,001 ) (107,750 )
Cumulative net income 8,804,950  8,663,736  
Cumulative dividends (15,514,097 ) (14,380,915 )
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (119,707 ) (121,316 )
Total Welltower Inc. stockholders’  equity 20,294,814  17,636,001  
Noncontrolling interests 714,739  960,578  
Total equity 21,009,553  18,596,579  
Total liabilities and equity $ 37,893,233  $ 34,910,325  
See accompanying notes
79
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(In thousands, except per share data)
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Revenues:
Resident fees and services $ 4,173,71 1 $ 3,197,223  $ 3,074,022  
Rental income 1,451,786  1,374,695  1,443,360  
Interest income 150,571  137,563  69,156  
Other income 84,547  32,634  19,429  
Total revenues 5,860,615  4,742,1 15 4,605,967  
Expenses:
Property operating expenses 3,558,770  2,774,562  2,597,823  
Depreciation and amortization 1,310,368  1,037,566  1,038,437  
Interest expense 529,519  489,853  514,388  
General and administrative expenses 150,390  126,727  128,394  
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net 8,334  (7,333 ) 11,049  
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 680 49,874  47,049  
Provision for loan losses, net 10,320  7,270  94,436  
Impairment of assets 17,502  51,107  135,608  
Other expenses 101,670  41,739  70,335  
Total expenses 5,687,553  4,571,365  4,637,519  
Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and other items 173,062  170,750  (31,552 )
Income tax (expense) benefit (7,247 ) (8,713 ) (9,968 )
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities (21,290 ) (22,933 ) (8,083 )
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 16,043  235,375  1,088,455  
Income (loss) from continuing operations 160,568  374,479  1,038,852  
Net income 160,568  374,479  1,038,852  
Less:  Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 19,354  38,341  60,008  
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 141,214  $ 336,138  $ 978,844  
Weighted average number of common shares outstanding:
Basic 462,185  424,976  415,451  
Diluted 465,158  426,841  417,387  
Earnings per share:
Basic:
Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 0.35 $ 0.88 $ 2.50 
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 0.31 $ 0.79 $ 2.36 
Diluted:
Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 0.35 $ 0.88 $ 2.49 
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 0.30 $ 0.78 $ 2.33 
(1) Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests
(2) Includes adjustment to the numerator for income (loss) attributable to OP Units and DownREIT Units.
See accompanying notes(1)
(2)
80
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (CONTINUED)
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(In thousands)
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Net income $ 160,568  $ 374,479  $ 1,038,852  
Other comprehensive income (loss):
Foreign currency translation gain (loss) (466,910 ) (52,826 ) 103,612  
Derivative and financial instruments designated as hedges gain (loss) 442,620  79,702  (134,369 )
Total other comprehensive income (loss) (24,290 ) 26,876  (30,757 )
Total comprehensive income (loss) 136,278  401,355  1,008,095  
Less: Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to
noncontrolling interests (6,545 ) 38,029  65,598  
Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 142,823  $ 363,326  $ 942,497  
(1) Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests.
See accompanying notes(1)
81
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(in thousands)
Common
StockCapital in
Excess of Par
ValueTreasury
StockCumulative
Net IncomeCumulative
DividendsAccumulated
Other
Comprehensive
Income (Loss)Noncontrolling
Interests Total
Balances at December 31, 2019 $ 411,005 $20,190,119 $ (78,955)$7,353,966 $(12,223,534)$ (112,157)$ 966,183 $16,506,627 
Cumulative change in accounting principle (Note 2) (5,212) (5,212)
Balances at January 1, 2020 (as adjusted for change in
accounting principle) 411,005 20,190,119 (78,955) 7,348,754 (12,223,534) (112,157) 966,183 16,501,415 
Comprehensive income:
Net income (loss) 978,844 98,910 1,077,754 
Other comprehensive income (loss) (36,347) 5,493 (30,854)
Total comprehensive income 1,046,900 
Net change in noncontrolling interests 18,158 (161,733) (143,575)
Amounts related to stock incentive plans, net of
forfeitures 622 27,666 (17,879) 10,409 
Net proceeds from issuance of common stock 7,064 587,202 594,266 
Conversion of preferred stock (7,656) (7,656)
Dividends paid:
Common stock dividends (1,120,187) (1,120,187)
Balances at December 31, 2020 418,691 20,823,145 (104,490) 8,327,598 (13,343,721) (148,504) 908,853 16,881,572 
Comprehensive income:
Net income (loss) 336,138 36,795 372,933 
Other comprehensive income (loss) 27,188 (366) 26,822 
Total comprehensive income 399,755 
Net change in noncontrolling interests (23,743) 15,296 (8,447)
Amounts related to stock incentive plans, net of
forfeitures 246 18,087 (3,260) 15,073 
Net proceeds from issuance of common stock 29,668 2,316,152 2,345,820 
Dividends paid:
Common stock dividends (1,037,194) (1,037,194)
Balances at December 31, 2021 448,605 23,133,641 (107,750) 8,663,736 (14,380,915) (121,316) 960,578 18,596,579 
Comprehensive income:
Net income (loss) 141,214 36,151 177,365 
Other comprehensive income (loss) 1,609 (24,161) (22,552)
Total comprehensive income 154,813 
Net change in noncontrolling interests (88,756) (210,974) (299,730)
Adjustment to members' interest from change in
ownership in Welltower OP 46,649 (46,649) — 
Redemption of OP Units and DownREIT Units 5 1,464 (206) 1,263 
Amounts related to stock incentive plans, net of
forfeitures 214 27,018 (3,251) 23,981 
Net proceeds from issuance of common stock 43,095 3,622,734 3,665,829 
Dividends paid:
Common stock dividends (1,133,182) (1,133,182)
Balances at December 31, 2022 $491,919 $26,742,750 $(111,001)$8,804,950 $(15,514,097)$ (119,707)$ 714,739 $21,009,553 
See accompanying notes
82
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(in thousands)
Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Operating activities:
Net income $ 160,568 $ 374,479 $ 1,038,852 
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided from (used in) operating
activities:
Depreciation and amortization 1,310,368 1,037,566 1,038,437 
Other amortization expenses 28,234 19,148 13,213 
Provision for loan losses 10,320 7,270 94,436 
Impairment of assets 17,502 51,107 135,608 
Stock-based compensation expense 26,149 17,812 28,318 
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net 8,334 (7,333) 11,049 
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 680 49,874 47,049 
Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities 21,290 22,933 8,083 
Rental income less than (in excess of) cash received (108,883) (30,820) 60,254 
Amortization related to above (below) market leases, net (1,693) (3,536) (1,870)
Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net (16,043) (235,375) (1,088,455)
Distributions by unconsolidated entities 12,462 16,763 11,601 
Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses and other liabilities 50,857 77,554 22,764 
Decrease (increase) in receivables and other assets (191,437) (122,117) (54,583)
Net cash provided from (used in) operating activities 1,328,708 1,275,325 1,364,756 
Investing activities:
Cash disbursed for acquisitions, net of cash acquired (2,306,020) (4,084,174) (903,756)
Cash disbursed for capital improvements to existing properties (476,016) (282,588) (244,989)
Cash disbursed for construction in progress (631,737) (417,963) (201,336)
Capitalized interest (30,491) (19,352) (17,472)
Investment in loans receivable (156,045) (997,449) (247,543)
Principal collected on loans receivable 196,310 343,260 31,548 
Other investments, net of payments (98,459) (26,595) 7,726 
Contributions to unconsolidated entities (502,171) (396,020) (411,154)
Distributions by unconsolidated entities 37,571 286,772 48,195 
Proceeds from (payments on) derivatives 63,747 7,519 (13,319)
Proceeds from sales of real property 199,496 1,070,322 4,300,028 
Net cash provided from (used in) investing activities (3,703,815) (4,516,268) 2,347,928 
Financing activities:
Net increase (decrease) under unsecured credit facility and commercial paper (324,935) 324,935 (1,587,597)
Proceeds from issuance of senior unsecured notes 1,040,232 1,703,626 1,588,549 
Payments to extinguish senior unsecured notes — (1,533,752) (566,248)
Net proceeds from the issuance of secured debt 113,183 23,569 62,055 
Payments on secured debt (457,180) (197,618) (694,995)
Net proceeds from the issuance of common stock 3,667,854 2,348,201 595,313 
Repurchase of common stock — — (7,656)
Payments for deferred financing costs and prepayment penalties (5,062) (73,735) (39,087)
Contributions by noncontrolling interests 138,656 156,318 44,023 
Distributions to noncontrolling interests (272,414) (138,756) (333,489)
Cash distributions to stockholders (1,131,527) (1,035,906) (1,119,232)
Other financing activities (7,530) (9,218) (22,494)
Net cash provided from (used in) financing activities 2,761,277 1,567,664 (2,080,858)
Effect of foreign currency translation on cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (10,633) (1,009) 3,451 
Increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 375,537 (1,674,288) 1,635,277 
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of period 346,755 2,021,043 385,766 
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of period $ 722,292 $ 346,755 $ 2,021,043 
Supplemental cash flow information:
Interest paid $ 531,672 $ 492,742 $ 508,454 
Income taxes paid (received) 3,435 (4,812) 13,671 
(1) Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests.
See accompanying notes.(1)
(1)
83
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Business 
Welltower Inc., an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health care infrastructure. We invest with leading seniors
housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund the real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery models and improve
people’s wellness and overall health care experience. Welltower Inc., a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), owns interests in properties concentrated in major, high-
growth markets in the United States (“U.S.”), Canada and the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), consisting of seniors housing and post-acute communities and outpatient
medical properties. 
As of May 24, 2022, we are structured as an umbrella partnership REIT under which substantially all of our business is conducted through Welltower OP LLC, the
day-to-day management of which is exclusively controlled by Welltower Inc. For additional information on the UPREIT reorganization, please see our Current Reports
on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 7, 2022, April 1, 2022 and May 25, 2022. Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references to
"Welltower" mean Welltower Inc. and references to "Welltower OP" mean Welltower OP LLC. References to "we," "us" and "our" mean collectively Welltower,
Welltower OP and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by Welltower and/or Welltower OP. Welltower's weighted average ownership in Welltower OP was
99.855% during the period ended December 31, 2022. As of December 31, 2022, Welltower owned 99.751% of the issued and outstanding units of Welltower OP, with
other investors owning the remaining 0.249% of outstanding units. We adjust the noncontrolling members' interest at the end of each period to reflect their interest in the
net assets of Welltower OP.
2. Accounting Policies and Related Matters
Use of Estimates
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) requires us to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and joint venture entities that we control, through voting rights or other
means. All material intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. At inception of transactions, we identify entities for which control is
achieved through means other than voting rights (“variable interest entities” or “VIEs”) and determine which business enterprise is the primary beneficiary of its
operations. A VIE is broadly defined as an entity where either (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a controlling financial interest, or (ii) the equity
investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity’s activities without additional subordinated financial support. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are
determined to be the primary beneficiary. Accounting Standards Codification Topic 810, Consolidations (“ASC 810”), requires enterprises to perform a qualitative
approach to determining whether or not a VIE will need to be consolidated. This evaluation is based on an enterprise’s ability to direct and influence the activities of a
VIE that most significantly impact that entity’s economic performance and the rights held by limited partners or non-managing members.
Revenue Recognition
For our Triple-net and Outpatient Medical segments, a significant source of our revenue is generated through leasing arrangements and accounted for under ASC 842,
Leases ("ASC 842"). Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability
assessment. Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the
period. Leases in our Outpatient Medical portfolio typically include some form of operating expense reimbursement by the tenant. Certain payments made to operators
are treated as lease incentives and amortized as a reduction of revenue over the lease term. 
For our Seniors Housing Operating segment, revenue from resident fees and services is predominantly service-based, and generally is recognized monthly as services
are provided under ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. Agreements with residents generally have varying terms and are cancellable by the resident with
30 days’ notice. Within that reportable segment, we also recognize revenue from residential seniors apartment leases in accordance with ASC 842. Management
contracts are present in some of our joint venture agreements to provide asset and property management, leasing, marketing and other services and are recognized
monthly as services are provided.
Our Seniors Housing Operating segment also contains continuing care retirement communities, which operate as entrance fee communities. The entrance fee
communities offer different contracts which vary in terms of how much of the entrance fee is considered to be refundable upon move-out, temporarily refundable until a
period of time has passed, or nonrefundable. Refundable entrance fees are recorded as a payable within the accrued expenses and other liabilities line item of our
Consolidated Balance Sheets. Nonrefundable entrance fees are recorded as deferred revenue within the same line item and are recognized into revenue over the
estimated remaining stay of the resident. We use a third party actuarial expert to determine the estimated remaining stay of each resident based on demographic data.
84
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal amount outstanding, subject to an evaluation of collectability risk.
We recognize gains on the disposition of real estate when control transfers to the buyer, generally when consideration and title are exchanged and the risks and
rewards of ownership transfer. We recognize losses from dispositions of real estate when known.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
Restricted Cash
Restricted cash primarily consists of amounts held by lenders to provide future payments for real estate taxes, insurance, tenant and capital improvements, amounts
held in escrow relating to transactions we are entitled to receive over a period of time as outlined in the escrow agreement and net proceeds from property sales that
were executed as tax-deferred dispositions under Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”) Section 1031.
Deferred Loan Expenses
Deferred loan expenses are costs incurred by us in connection with the issuance, assumption and amendments of debt arrangements. Deferred loan expenses related to
debt instruments, excluding the primary unsecured credit facility, are recorded as a reduction of the related debt liability. Deferred loan expenses related to the primary
unsecured credit facility are included in receivables and other assets. We amortize these costs over the term of the debt using the straight-line method, which
approximates the effective interest method.
Investments in Unconsolidated Entities
Investments in entities that we do not consolidate but have the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies are reported under the
equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, our share of the investee’s earnings or losses is included in our consolidated results of operations. The initial
carrying value of investments in unconsolidated entities is based on the amount paid to purchase the entity interest inclusive of transaction costs. To the extent that our
cost basis is different from the basis reflected at the entity level, the basis difference is generally amortized over the lives of the related assets and liabilities, and such
amortization is included in our share of equity in earnings of the entity. For earnings of equity method investments with pro rata distribution allocations, net income or
loss is allocated between the partners in the joint venture based upon their respective stated ownership. In other instances, net income or loss may be allocated between
the partners in the joint venture based on the hypothetical liquidation at book value method ("HLBV method"). Under the HLBV method, we recognize income and loss
in each period based on the change in liquidation proceeds we would receive from a hypothetical liquidation of the underlying investment at book value.
We evaluate our equity method investments for impairment based upon a comparison of the estimated fair value of the equity method investment to its carrying value.
When we determine a decline in the estimated fair value of such an investment below its carrying value is other-than-temporary, an impairment is recorded.
Equity Securities
Equity securities are measured at fair value with gains and losses recognized in loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net in the Consolidated
Statements of Comprehensive Income.
Welltower OP Noncontrolling Interests
Members of Welltower OP other than Welltower have the right under the limited liability company agreement to redeem their Class A Common Units ("OP Units") for
shares of Welltower common stock or cash, at Welltower's sole discretion, as the initial member. Accordingly, we classify the non-Welltower OP Units held by such
other members in permanent equity because Welltower may elect to issue shares of Welltower common stock to the non-Welltower members who choose to redeem
their OP Units rather than using cash.
Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests
Certain noncontrolling interests are redeemable at fair value. Accordingly, we record the carrying amount of the noncontrolling interests at the greater of (i) the initial
carrying amount, increased or decreased for the noncontrolling interest’s share of net income or loss and its share of other comprehensive income or loss, and dividends
or (ii) the redemption value. If the interests are redeemable in the future, we accrete the carrying value to the redemption value over the period until expected
redemption, currently a weighted-average period of approximately four years. In accordance with ASC 810, the redeemable noncontrolling interests are classified
outside of permanent equity, as a mezzanine item, on the balance sheet. At December 31, 2022, the current redemption value of redeemable noncontrolling interests
exceeded the carrying value of $384,443,000 by $65,575,000.
85
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
We entered into certain DownREIT partnerships which give a real estate seller the ability to exchange its property on a tax deferred basis for equity membership
interests (“DownREIT Units”). The DownREIT Units may be redeemed any time following the first anniversary of the date of issuance at the election of the holders for
one share of our common stock per unit or, at our option, cash.
Real Property Owned
Real estate acquisitions are generally classified as asset acquisitions for which we record tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities at cost on a
relative fair value basis. Liabilities assumed and any associated noncontrolling interests are reflected at fair value. Tangible assets primarily consist of land, buildings
and improvements.
Identifiable intangible assets and liabilities consist primarily of the above or below market component of in-place leases and the value associated with the presence of
in-place leases. The value allocable to the above or below market component of the acquired in-place lease is determined based upon the present value (using a discount
rate which reflects the risks associated with the acquired leases) of the difference between (i) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the lease over its remaining
term, and (ii) management’s estimate of the amounts that would be paid using fair market rates over the remaining term of the lease. The amounts allocated to above
market leases are included in acquired lease intangibles and below market leases are included in other liabilities on the balance sheet and are amortized to rental income
over the remaining terms of the respective leases or lease-up period.
The total amount of other intangible assets acquired is further allocated to in-place lease values and customer relationship values for in-place tenants based on
management’s evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant’s lease and our overall relationship with that respective tenant. Characteristics considered by
management in allocating these values include the nature and extent of our existing business relationships with the tenant, growth prospects for developing new business
with the tenant, the tenant’s credit quality and expectations of lease renewals, among other factors. The total amount of other intangible assets acquired is further
allocated to in-place lease values for in-place residents with such value representing (i) value associated with lost revenue related to tenant reimbursable operating costs
that would be incurred in an assumed re-leasing period, and (ii) value associated with lost rental revenue from existing leases during an assumed re-leasing period. This
intangible asset is amortized over the remaining life of the lease or the assumed re-leasing period.
Real property developed by us is recorded at cost, including the capitalization of construction period interest. These properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis
over their estimated useful lives which range from 15 to 40 years for buildings and 5 to 15 years for improvements. We consider costs incurred in conjunction with re-
leasing properties, including tenant improvements and lease commissions, to represent the acquisition of productive assets and, accordingly, such costs are reflected as
investment activities in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
The net book value of long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly on a property by property basis to determine if facts and circumstances suggest that the assets may be
impaired or that the depreciable life may need to be changed. We consider external factors relating to each asset and the existence of a master lease which may link the
cash flows of an individual asset to a larger portfolio of assets leased to the same tenant. If these factors and the projected undiscounted cash flows of the assets over the
remaining depreciation period indicate that the assets will not be recoverable, the carrying value is reduced to the estimated fair market value. In addition, we are
exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and health care industries. A downturn in the real estate
industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us. Additionally, properties that meet the
held for sale criteria are recorded at the lesser of fair value less costs to sell or the carrying value.
Expenditures for repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred.
Capitalization of Construction Period Interest
We capitalize interest costs associated with funds used for the construction of properties owned by us. The amount capitalized is based upon the balance outstanding
during the construction period using the rate of interest which approximates our company-wide cost of financing. Our interest expense reflected in the Consolidated
Statements of Comprehensive Income has been reduced by the amounts capitalized.
Loans Receivable
Loans receivable are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets in real estate loans receivable, net of credit allowance, or for non-real estate loans receivable, in
receivables and other assets. Real estate loans receivable consists of mortgage loans and other real estate loans which are primarily collateralized by a first, second or
third mortgage lien, a leasehold mortgage on, or an assignment or pledge of the partnership interest in, the related properties, corporate guarantees and/or personal
guarantees. Non-real estate loans are generally corporate loans with no real estate backing. Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal
amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of the risk of credit loss.
86
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In Substance Real Estate Investments
We provide loans to third parties for the acquisition, development and construction of real estate. Under these arrangements, it is possible that we will participate in
the expected residual profits of the project through the sale, refinancing or acquisition of the property. We evaluate the characteristics of each arrangement, including its
risks and rewards, to determine whether they are more similar to those associated with a loan or an investment in real estate. Arrangements with characteristics implying
loan classification are presented as real estate loans receivable and result in the recognition of interest income. Arrangements with characteristics implying real estate
joint ventures are treated as in substance real estate investments and presented as investments in unconsolidated entities and are accounted for using the equity method.
The classification of each arrangement as either a real estate loan receivable or investment in unconsolidated entity involves judgment and relies on various factors,
including market conditions, amount and timing of expected residual profits, credit enhancements in the form of guarantees, estimated fair value of the collateral, and
significance of borrower equity in the project, among others. The classification of such arrangements is performed at inception, and periodically reassessed when
significant changes occur in the circumstances or conditions described above.
Allowance for Credit Losses on Loans Receivable
The allowance for credit losses on loans receivable is maintained at a level believed adequate to absorb potential losses in our loans receivable. The determination of
the credit allowance is based on a quarterly evaluation of all outstanding loans, including general economic conditions and estimated collectability of loan payments. We
evaluate the collectability of our loans receivable based on a combination of credit quality indicators, including, but not limited to, payment status, historical loan
charge-offs, financial strength of the borrower and guarantors, and nature, extent, and value of the underlying collateral. A loan is considered to have deteriorated credit
quality when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due as scheduled according to the contractual terms of
the loan agreement. For those loans we identified as having deteriorated credit quality, we determine the amount of credit loss on an individual basis. Placement on non-
accrual status may be required. Consistent with this definition, all loans on non-accrual status are deemed to have deteriorated credit quality. To the extent circumstances
improve and the risk of collectability is diminished, we may return these loans to income accrual status. While a loan is on non-accrual status, any cash receipts are
applied against the outstanding principal balance. For the remaining loans we assess credit loss on a collective pool basis and use our historical loss experience for
similar loans to determine the reserve for credit losses.
Goodwill
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and is tested for impairment more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. An
impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying amount, including goodwill, exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value and the implied fair value of goodwill is
less than the carrying amount of that goodwill. We have not had any goodwill impairments.
 Fair Value of Derivative Instruments
Derivatives are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities. The valuation of derivative instruments requires us to make estimates and judgments
that affect the fair value of the instruments. Fair values of our derivatives are estimated by pricing models that consider the forward yield curves and discount rates. The
fair value of our forward exchange contracts are estimated by pricing models that consider foreign currency spot rates, forward trade rates and discount rates. Such
amounts and the recognition of such amounts are subject to estimates that may change in the future. See Note 12 for additional information.
Accrued Expenses and Other Liabilities
Accrued expenses and other liabilities consist of the following (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021
Unearned revenue $ 432,941  $ 335,891  
Other liabilities 311,506  180,663  
Accounts payable 216,732  174,798  
Taxes payable 144,021  117,013  
Other accrued expenses 135,944  135,042  
Accrued payroll 120,713  141,694  
Accrued interest 117,741  111,157  
Derivative liabilities 55,727  39,296  
Total $ 1,535,325  $ 1,235,554  
87
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Federal Income Tax
We have elected to be treated as a REIT under the applicable provisions of the IRC, commencing with our first taxable year, and made no provision for U.S. federal
income tax purposes prior to our acquisition of our taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRSs”). As a result of these, as well as subsequent acquisitions, we now record income
tax expense or benefit with respect to certain of our entities that are taxed as TRSs under provisions similar to those applicable to regular corporations and not under the
REIT provisions. We account for deferred income taxes using the asset and liability method and recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax
consequences of events that have been included in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Under this method, we determine deferred tax assets and
liabilities based on the differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the
differences are expected to reverse. Any increase or decrease in the deferred tax liability that results from a change in circumstances, and that causes a change in our
judgment about expected future tax consequences of events, is included in the tax provision when such changes occur. Deferred income taxes also reflect the impact of
operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. A valuation allowance is provided if we believe it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax asset
will not be realized. Any increase or decrease in the valuation allowance that results from a change in circumstances, and that causes a change in our judgment about the
realizability of the related deferred tax asset, is included in the tax provision when such changes occur. See Note 19 for additional information.
Foreign Currency
Certain of our subsidiaries’ functional currencies are the local currencies of their respective countries. We translate the results of operations of our foreign subsidiaries
into U.S. Dollars using average rates of exchange in effect during the period, and we translate balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect at the end of the
period. We record resulting currency translation adjustments in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders’ equity, on our Consolidated
Balance Sheets.
Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of shares outstanding for the period
adjusted for non-vested shares of restricted stock. The computation of diluted earnings per share is similar to basic earnings per share, except that the number of shares
is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the potentially dilutive common shares had been issued.
Additionally, net income (loss) allocated to OP Units and DownREIT Units (discussed above) has been included in the numerator and redeemable common stock related
to the OP Units and DownREIT Units have been included in the denominator for the purpose of computing diluted earnings per share.
Reclassifications
Certain amounts in prior years have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic & Government Assistance
The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our operations and those of our operators and tenants will depend on future developments, which are highly
uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence, including the scope, severity and duration of the pandemic, the actions taken to contain the pandemic or mitigate its
impact, the direct and indirect economic effects of the pandemic and containment measures, the impact of new variants, the effectiveness of vaccines, and the overall
pace of recovery, among others. The COVID-19 pandemic could have material and adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the
future.
Our Seniors Housing Operating revenues are dependent on occupancy. As of December 31, 2022, nearly all communities are open for new admissions and allowing
visitors, in-person tours and communal dining and activities. Average occupancy is as follows (unaudited):
Three Months Ended
March 31, June 30, September 30, December 31,
2021 72.7 % 73.0 % 74.9 % 76.3 %
2022 76.3 % 77.1 % 78.0 % 78.3 %
Average occupancy includes our minority ownership share related to unconsolidated properties and excludes the minority partners' noncontrolling ownership share related to consolidated properties. Also
excludes land parcels and properties under development.
Property-level operating expenses associated with the COVID-19 pandemic related to our Seniors Housing Operating portfolio totaled $33,099,000, $63,681,000 and
$110,719,000 for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. These expenses were incurred as a result of public health measures and other
regulations affecting our properties, as well as additional health and safety measures adopted by us and our operators related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including
increases in labor and property cleaning expenses and expenditures related to our efforts to procure personal protective(1)
(1) 
88
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
equipment and supplies. We expect total Seniors Housing Operating expenses to remain elevated during the pandemic and potentially beyond as these additional health
and safety measures become standard practice.
On March 27, 2020, the federal government enacted the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (“CARES Act”) to provide financial aid to individuals,
businesses, and state and local governments. During the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, we received government grants under the CARES Act
primarily to cover increased expenses and lost revenue during the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as under similar programs in the U.K. and Canada. Grant income is
recognized when there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and the Company will comply with all conditions attached to the grant. For the years ended
December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 we recognized $38,607,000, $97,933,000 and $31,927,000, respectively, of government grant income as a reduction to property
operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. Additionally, for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we recognized
$4,642,000 and $3,014,000, respectively, of government grant income in other income in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. The amount of
qualifying expenditures and lost revenue exceeded grant income recognized and we believe we have complied and will continue to comply with all grant conditions. In
the event of non-compliance, all such amounts received are subject to recapture.
Our Triple-net operators have experienced similar occupancy trends as our Seniors Housing Operating properties. Additionally, long-term/post-acute care facilities
have generally experienced a higher degree of occupancy declines. These factors may continue to impact the ability of our Triple-net operators to make contractual rent
payments to us in the future. Many of our Triple-net operators received funds under the CARES Act Paycheck Protection Program and Provider Relief Fund.
New Accounting Standards
•In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-06, Debt-Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging-Contracts in
Entity’s Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40) Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entity’s Own Equity. This ASU simplifies accounting for
convertible instruments and removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception. This ASU
also simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas and provides updated disclosure requirements. The ASU is effective for public
business entities beginning after December 15, 2021, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The adoption of this standard did not have a
significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.
•In November 2021, the FASB issued ASU 2021-10, Government Assistance (Topic 832): Disclosures by Business Entities about Government Assistance,
which increases the transparency of government assistance including the disclosure of the types of assistance, an entity's accounting for assistance and the
effect of the assistance on an entity's financial statements. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements
or disclosures.
•In March 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-04, Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848): Facilitation of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform on Financial
Reporting, which provides the option for a limited period of time to ease the potential burden in accounting for, or recognizing the effects of, reference rate
reform on contract modifications and hedge accounting. An example of such reform is the expected market transition from the London Interbank Offered Rate
("LIBOR") and other interbank offered rates to alternative reference rates. Entities that make this optional expedient election would not have to remeasure the
contracts at the modification date or reassess the accounting treatment if certain criteria are met and would continue applying hedge accounting for
relationships affected by reference rate reform. In December 2022, the FASB extended the date for which this guidance can be applied from December 31,
2022 to December 31, 2024. We continue to monitor developments related to the LIBOR transition and identification of an alternative, market-accepted rate.
3. Real Property Acquisitions and Development 
The total purchase price for all properties acquired has been allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities at cost on a relative fair value
basis. Liabilities assumed and any associated noncontrolling interests are reflected at fair value. The results of operations for these acquisitions have been included in
our consolidated results of operations since the date of acquisition and are a component of the appropriate segments. Transaction costs primarily represent costs incurred
with acquisitions, including due diligence costs, fees for legal and valuation services, termination of pre-existing relationships computed based on the fair value of the
assets acquired, lease termination fees and other acquisition-related costs. Transaction costs related to asset acquisitions are capitalized as a component of purchase price
and all other non-capitalizable costs are reflected in other expenses on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
89
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following is a summary of our real property investment activity by segment for the periods presented (in thousands):
Year Ended December 31, 2022
 Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-net Outpatient Medical Total
Land and land improvements  $ 206,618  $ 7,536  $ 68,379  $ 282,533  
Buildings and improvements  2,067,051  59,248  253,358  2,379,657  
Acquired lease intangibles  129,429  — 35,316  164,745  
Construction in progress 108,141  — — 108,141  
Right of use assets, net 169 — 3,852  4,021  
Total net real estate assets 2,511,408  66,784  360,905  2,939,097  
Receivables and other assets 14,406  — 501 14,907  
Total assets acquired 2,525,814  66,784  361,406  2,954,004  
Secured debt  (279,788 ) (39,574 ) — (319,362 )
Lease liabilities — — (3,852 ) (3,852 )
Accrued expenses and other liabilities (112,962 ) (1,428 ) (1,414 ) (115,804 )
Total liabilities acquired (392,750 ) (41,002 ) (5,266 ) (439,018 )
Noncontrolling interests (115,112) (4) (1,095 ) (116,21 1)
Non-cash acquisition related activity (64,975 ) (27,780 ) — (92,755 )
 Cash disbursed for acquisitions 1,952,977  (2,002 ) 355,045  2,306,020  
Construction in progress additions 489,001  83,368  91,662  664,031  
Less: Capitalized interest (24,432 ) (4,210 ) (1,849 ) (30,491 )
Accruals (4,621 ) — 2,818  (1,803 )
Cash disbursed for construction in progress 459,948  79,158  92,631  631,737  
Capital improvements to existing properties 352,099  48,052  75,865  476,016  
Total cash invested in real property , net of cash acquired  $ 2,765,024  $ 125,208  $ 523,541  $ 3,413,773  
 Excludes $6,563,000 of unrestricted and restricted cash acquired.
 Includes amounts attributable to both redeemable noncontrolling interests and noncontrolling interests. For the year ended December 31, 2022, 1,227,000 OP Units were issued as a component of funding for
certain transactions.
 Relates to the acquisition of assets previously financed as loans receivable and the acquisition of assets previously recognized as investments in unconsolidated entities.
Represents non-cash accruals for amounts to be paid in future periods for properties that converted, off-set by amounts paid in the current period.(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4) 
90
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Year Ended December 31, 2021
 Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-net Outpatient Medical Total
Land and land improvements  $ 449,335  $ 88,839  $ 64,843  $ 603,017  
Buildings and improvements  2,347,609  809,328  313,864  3,470,801  
Acquired lease intangibles  264,589  — 24,751  289,340  
Right of use assets, net 77,455  — — 77,455  
Total net real estate assets 3,138,988  898,167  403,458  4,440,613  
Receivables and other assets  6,096  411 3,534  10,041  
Total assets acquired 3,145,084  898,578  406,992  4,450,654  
Lease liabilities (138,126 ) — — (138,126 )
Accrued expenses and other liabilities (191,454 ) (8,703 ) (266) (200,423 )
Total liabilities acquired (329,580 ) (8,703 ) (266) (338,549 )
Noncontrolling interests (4,942 ) (6,449 ) (16,540 ) (27,931 )
Cash disbursed for acquisitions 2,810,562  883,426  390,186  4,084,174  
Construction in progress additions 322,050  77,412  42,464  441,926  
Less: Capitalized interest (13,834 ) (3,078 ) (2,440 ) (19,352 )
Accruals 35 — (4,646 ) (4,611)
Cash disbursed for construction in progress 308,251  74,334  35,378  417,963  
Capital improvements to existing properties 197,829  37,345  47,414  282,588  
Total cash invested in real property , net of cash acquired $ 3,316,642  $ 995,105  $ 472,978  $ 4,784,725  
 Excludes $4,201,000 of unrestricted and restricted cash acquired.
 Includes amounts attributable to both redeemable noncontrolling interests and noncontrolling interests.
 Represents non-cash accruals for amounts to be paid in future periods for properties that converted, off-set by amounts paid in the current period.
Year Ended December 31, 2020
 Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-net Outpatient Medical Total
Land and land improvements  $ 55,000  $ 16,876  $ 45,590  $ 117,466  
Buildings and improvements  527,189  73,855  179,004  780,048  
Acquired lease intangibles  28,668  — 24,718  53,386  
Total net real estate assets 610,857  90,731  249,312  950,900  
Receivables and other assets  746 — 268 1,014  
Total assets acquired 611,603  90,731  249,580  951,914  
Accrued expenses and other liabilities (1,650 ) — (962) (2,612 )
Total liabilities acquired (1,650 ) — (962) (2,612 )
Noncontrolling interests (45,546 ) — — (45,546 )
Cash disbursed for acquisitions 564,407  90,731  248,618  903,756  
Construction in progress additions 134,945  45,256  39,833  220,034  
Less: Capitalized interest (10,389 ) (3,209 ) (3,874 ) (17,472 )
Accruals (1,226 ) — — (1,226 )
Cash disbursed for construction in progress 123,330  42,047  35,959  201,336  
Capital improvements to existing properties 107,379  76,625  60,985  244,989  
Total cash invested in real property , net of cash acquired $ 795,1 16 $ 209,403  $ 345,562  $ 1,350,081  
 Excludes $580,000 of unrestricted and restricted cash acquired.
 Includes amounts attributable to both redeemable noncontrolling interests and noncontrolling interests.
 Represents non-cash accruals for amounts to be paid in future periods for properties that converted, off-set by amounts paid in the current period.
Holiday Retirement Acquisition
On July 30, 2021, we acquired a portfolio of 85 seniors housing properties owned by Holiday Retirement for $1,576,600,000, which are included in our Seniors
Housing Operating segment and in the table above for the year ended December 31, 2021. Atria Senior Living assumed operations of the portfolio following its
acquisition of the Holiday Retirement management company pursuant to an incentive-based management agreement. As part of this transaction, a wholly owned
subsidiary(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(1)
(2)
(3)
91
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
assumed the leasehold interest in a 26 property portfolio and subsequently purchased eight of the leased properties and one of the properties was sold by the landlord,
National Health Investors ("NHI"), and removed from the master lease. Effective April 1, 2022, our leasehold interest related to the remaining 17 properties was
terminated as a result of the transition or sale of the properties by NHI as part of an agreement to resolve outstanding litigation. In conjunction with the agreement, a
wholly owned subsidiary and the lessee on the master lease agreed to release $6,883,000 of cash to the landlord, which represents the net cash flow generated from the
properties since we assumed the leasehold interest. Additionally, in conjunction with the lease termination, during the year ended December 31, 2022, we recognized
$58,621,000 in other income on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income from the derecognition of the right of use asset and related liability.
Construction Activity 
The following is a summary of the construction projects that were placed into service and began generating revenues during the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Development projects:
Seniors Housing Operating $ 227,796  $ 117,386  $ 93,188  
Triple-net — 22,990  75,149  
Outpatient Medical 44,777  125,179  43,493  
Total development projects 272,573  265,555  211,830  
Expansion projects 18,280  5,292  48,600  
Total construction in progress conversions $ 290,853  $ 270,847  $ 260,430  
 
4. Real Estate Intangibles 
The following is a summary of our real estate intangibles, excluding those related to ground leases or classified as held for sale, as of the dates indicated (dollars in
thousands):
December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
Assets:
In place lease intangibles $ 1,817,580  $ 1,681,533  
Above market tenant leases 57,203  53,964  
Lease commissions 70,675  54,131  
Gross historical cost 1,945,458  1,789,628  
Accumulated amortization (1,484,048 ) (1,286,259 )
Net book value $ 461,410  $ 503,369  
Weighted-average amortization period in years 7.6 5.5
Liabilities:
Below market tenant leases $ 77,985  $ 74,909  
Accumulated amortization (52,701 ) (45,291 )
Net book value $ 25,284  $ 29,618  
Weighted-average amortization period in years 8.4 8.2
The following is a summary of real estate intangible amortization income (expense) for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Rental income related to (above)/below market tenant leases, net $ 1,551  $ 1,680  $ 1,710  
Amortization related to in place lease intangibles and lease commissions (217,187 ) (115,579 ) (121,004 )
92
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The future estimated aggregate amortization of intangible assets and liabilities is as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Assets Liabilities
2023 $ 163,759  $ 6,073  
2024 94,771  3,854  
2025 42,068  2,908  
2026 45,006  2,435  
2027 37,012  1,888  
Thereafter 78,794  8,126  
Totals $ 461,410  $ 25,284  
5. Dispositions, Real Property Held for Sale and Impairment
We periodically sell properties for various reasons, including favorable market conditions, the exercise of tenant purchase options or reduction of concentrations (e.g.
property type, relationship or geography). At December 31, 2022, three Seniors Housing Operating, seven Triple-net and one Outpatient Medical properties, with an
aggregate net real estate balance of $133,058,000, were classified as held for sale. In addition to the real property balances, lease liabilities of $66,711,000 and net other
assets and (liabilities) of $(4,136,000) were included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets related to the held for sale properties. Expected gross sales proceeds related to
the held for sale properties are approximately $198,954,000.
During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded impairment charges of $13,146,000 related to one Seniors Housing Operating property which was classified
as held for sale for which the carrying value exceeded the estimated fair values less costs to sell. Additionally, during 2022 we recorded impairment charges of
$4,356,000 related to two Triple-net properties and one Outpatient Medical property, which were held for use for which the carrying value exceeded the fair values.
During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded impairment charges of $19,567,000 related to four Triple-net properties and one Outpatient Medical property,
which were disposed of or classified as held for sale. Additionally, we recorded $31,540,000 of impairment charges related to two Seniors Housing Operating properties
and two Triple-net properties that were held for use. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded impairment charges of $87,873,000 related to 15 Seniors
Housing Operating and one Triple-net properties, which were disposed of or classified as held for sale. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2020, we
recorded $47,735,000 of impairment charges related to six Seniors Housing Operating and four Triple-net properties that were held for use.
The following is a summary of our real property disposition activity for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Real estate dispositions:
Seniors Housing Operating $ 85,413  $ 112,837  $ 1,289,769  
Triple-net 89,827  486,369  51,666  
Outpatient Medical 393 229,660  1,755,864  
Total net book value of dispositions 175,633  828,866  3,097,299  
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 16,043  235,375  1,088,455  
Net other assets (liabilities) disposed 7,820  6,081  114,274  
Proceeds from real estate dispositions $ 199,496  $ 1,070,322  $ 4,300,028  
93
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Operating results attributable to properties sold or classified as held for sale which do not meet the definition of discontinued operations, are not reclassified on our
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. The following represents the activity related to these properties for the periods presented (in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Revenues:
Total revenues $ 19,892  $ 78,277  $ 302,719  
Expenses:
Interest expense 3,409  3,595  11,061  
Property operating expenses 12,713  17,740  148,702  
Provision for depreciation 1,285  25,575  104,960  
Total expenses 17,407  46,910  264,723  
Income (loss) from real estate dispositions, net $ 2,485  $ 31,367  $ 37,996  
6. Leases
We lease land, buildings, office space and certain equipment. Many of our leases include a renewal option to extend the term from one to 25 years or more. Renewal
options that we are reasonably certain to exercise are recognized in our right-of-use assets and lease liabilities. As most of our leases do not provide a rate implicit in the
lease agreement, we generally use our incremental borrowing rate available at lease commencement, underlying collateral for the lease and the ability to borrow against
that collateral on a secured basis to determine the present value of lease payments. The incremental borrowing rates were determined using our longer term borrowing
rates (actual pricing through 30 years, as well as other longer-term market rates).
We sublease certain real estate to a third party. Our sublease portfolio consists of a finance lease for seven buildings which are subleased to a long-term/ post-acute
care operator.
The components of lease expense were as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
 Classification 2022 2021 2020
Operating lease cost: 
Real estate lease expense Property operating expenses $ 22,150  $ 22,642  $ 23,472  
Non-real estate investment lease expense General and administrative expenses 5,794  4,596  4,745  
Finance lease cost:
Amortization of leased assets Property operating expenses 6,837  8,105  8,203  
Interest on lease liabilities Interest expense 6,164  6,574  6,411 
Sublease income Rental income (11,487 ) (8,687 ) (4,173 )
Total  $ 29,458  $ 33,230  $ 38,658  
 Includes short-term leases which are immaterial.
Maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2022 are as follows (in thousands):
Operating Leases Financing Leases
2023 $ 20,279  $ 72,218  
2024 19,444  3,791  
2025 16,112 1,800  
2026 15,516  1,790  
2027 15,834  1,748  
Thereafter 876,054  125,142  
Total lease payments 963,239  206,489  
Less: Imputed interest (660,879 ) (93,025 )
Total present value of lease liabilities $ 302,360  $ 113,464  (1)
(1)
94
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases was as follows for the periods presented (in thousands, except lease terms and discount rate):
 Classification December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
Right of use assets:
Operating leases - real estate Right of use assets, net $ 287,984  $ 367,068  
Financing leases - real estate Right of use assets, net 35,958  155,728  
Real estate right of use assets, net 323,942  522,796  
Operating leases - non-real estate investments Receivables and other assets 10,119 9,627  
Financing leases - held for saleReal property held for sale, net of
accumulated depreciation 116,453  — 
Total right of use assets, net $ 450,514  $ 532,423  
Lease liabilities:
Operating leases $ 302,360  $ 434,261  
Financing leases 113,464  111,683  
Total lease liabilities $ 415,824  $ 545,944  
Weighted average remaining lease term (years):
Operating leases 46.0 36.6
Financing leases 19.8 19.8
Weighted average discount rate:
Operating leases 5.56 % 9.72 %
Financing leases 5.01 % 5.06 %
 At December 31, 2022, financing leases at seven properties were classified as held for sale.
Supplemental cash flow information related to leases was as follows for the periods indicated (in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
 Classification 2022 2021 2020
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities:
Operating cash flows from operating leases Decrease (increase) in receivables and other assets $ 8,805  $ 9,081  $ 9,323  
Operating cash flows from operating leases Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses and other liabilities (5,570 ) (6,008 ) (3,918 )
Operating cash flows from financing leases Decrease (increase) in receivables and other assets 8,672  8,336  8,263  
Financing cash flows from financing leases Other financing activities (2,255 ) (3,578 ) (3,568 )
Substantially all of our operating leases in which we are the lessor contain escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally
recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is
generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. During the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we reserved for previously
recognized straight-line rent receivable balances of $49,241,000 and $146,508,000 through rental income, relating to leases for which collection of substantially all
contractual lease payments was no longer deemed probable. Included in the 2020 amount was $91,025,000 related to Genesis Healthcare ("Genesis") whom noted
substantial doubt as to their ability to continue as a going concern.
Leases in our Triple-net and Outpatient Medical portfolios typically include some form of operating expense reimbursement by the tenant. Rental income related to
operating leases and the corresponding variable lease payments, which primarily represents the reimbursement of operating costs such as common area maintenance
expenses, utilities, insurance and real estate taxes for the periods indicated were as follows (in thousands):
Year Ended December 31,
2022 2021 2020
Fixed income from operating leases $ 1,258,238  $ 1,193,837  $ 1,240,012  
Variable lease income 193,548  180,858  203,348  (1)
(1)
95
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the majority of our Seniors Housing Operating segment, revenue from resident fees and services is predominantly service-based, and as such, resident agreements
are accounted for under ASC 606. Within that reportable segment, we also recognize revenue from residential seniors apartment leases in accordance with ASC 842. The
amount of revenue related to these leases was $410,749,000, $194,078,000 and $58,053,000 for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
The following table sets forth the future minimum lease payments receivable for leases in effect at December 31, 2022 (excluding properties in our Seniors Housing
Operating portfolio and excluding any operating expense reimbursements) (in thousands):
2023 $ 1,176,306  
2024 1,150,604
2025 1,118,044
2026 1,074,809
2027 1,018,400
Thereafter 8,802,365
Totals $ 14,340,528  
7. Loans Receivable
Loans receivable are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets in real estate loans receivable, net of allowance for credit losses, or for non-real estate loans
receivable, in receivables and other assets, net of allowance for credit losses.
Accrued interest receivable was $22,878,000 and $26,659,000 as of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively, and is included in receivables and other
assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The following is a summary of our loans receivable (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021
Mortgage loans $ 707,464  $ 889,556  
Other real estate loans 195,566  194,477  
Allowance for credit losses on real estate loans receivable (12,186 ) (15,352 )
Real estate loans receivable, net of credit allowance 890,844  1,068,681  
Non-real estate loans 441,231  375,060  
Allowance for credit losses on non-real estate loans receivable (152,063 ) (151,433 )
Non-real estate loans receivable, net of credit allowance 289,168  223,627  
Total loans receivable, net of credit allowance $ 1,180,012  $ 1,292,308  
The following is a summary of our loan activity for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Advances on loans receivable $ 156,045  $ 997,449  $ 247,543  
Less: Receipts on loans receivable 196,310  343,260  31,548  
Net cash advances (receipts) on loans receivable $ (40,265 )$ 654,189  $ 215,995  
During the year ended December 31, 2021, we provided £540 million (approximately $750,330,000 based on the Sterling/ U.S. Dollar exchange rate as of the date of
funding) of senior loan financing and a £30 million delayed facility for working capital and capital expenditures to affiliates of Safanad, a global real estate and private
equity firm, as part of the recapitalization of its investment in HC-One Group. The loan has a five-year term and is fully collateralized by the shares and assets of the
HC-One Group, including its underlying portfolio of owned assets across the U.K. As part of the transaction, we received equity warrants which provide us the right to
participate in the capital appreciation of HC-One Group above a designated price upon liquidation. See Note 12 for additional details.
96
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following is a summary of our loans by credit loss category (in thousands):
December 31, 2022
Loan category Years of Origination Loan Carrying Value Allowance for Credit Loss Net Loan Balance No. of Loans
Deteriorated loans  2007 - 2018 $ 174,841  $ (148,438 )$ 26,403  3
Collective loan pool  2007 - 2017 202,762  (2,754 ) 200,008  12
Collective loan pool 2018 3,100  (42) 3,058  1
Collective loan pool 2019 23,278  (316) 22,962  4
Collective loan pool 2020 53,014  (720) 52,294  6
Collective loan pool 2021 754,530  (10,193 ) 744,337  18
Collective loan pool 2022 132,736  (1,786 ) 130,950  29
Total loans $ 1,344,261  $ (164,249 )$ 1,180,012  73 
In 2020, we recognized a provision for loan losses of $88,201,000 as a result of the current collateral estimates for loans with deteriorated credit, primarily relating to
our outstanding loans to Genesis Healthcare ("Genesis"). During the year ended December 31, 2021, we entered into definitive agreements to substantially exit our
operating relationship with Genesis primarily through the transition of 51 properties to other operators. To effectuate this transition, we agreed to provide Genesis a lease
termination fee of $86 million upon successful transition of all properties, which will be used to immediately repay indebtedness to us. Additionally, upon achievement
of certain restructuring milestones, we will reduce Genesis' indebtedness by an additional $170 million in exchange for an equity interest in Genesis. Upon conclusion
of the aforementioned loan transactions, Genesis will have $167 million of indebtedness to us, exclusive of additional paid in kind interest, which will carry a maturity
date of January 1, 2024. As of December 31, 2022, our total carrying value of Genesis loans receivable, net of allowances for credit losses, was $168,949,000.
The total allowance for credit losses is deemed to be sufficient to absorb expected losses relating to our loan portfolio. The following is a summary of the allowance
for credit losses on loans receivable for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Balance at beginning of year $ 166,785  $ 224,036  $ 68,372  
Adoption of ASU 2016-13 — — 5,212  
Provision for loan losses, net (1,394 ) 7,270  94,436  
Loan write-of fs — (64,075 ) (7,000 )
Foreign currency translation (1,142 ) (446) 197 
Reclassification of deferred gain as credit loss — — 62,819  
Balance at end of year $ 164,249  $ 166,785  $ 224,036  
Excludes $11,714,000 related to the provision for loss on held-to-maturity debt securities.
Includes $64,075,000 related to the Genesis lease terminations for the twelve months ended December 31, 2021.
 During the year ended December 31, 2020, two loans originated in 2016 to Genesis with an aggregate carrying value of $62,753,000 were transferred to the deteriorated loan pool. In addition, deferred gains of $62,819,000 previously
recorded in accrued expenses and other liabilities were reclassified to the allowance for credit losses.
The following is a summary of our deteriorated loans (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Balance of deteriorated loans at end of year $ 174,841  $ 178,369  $ 242,319  
Allowance for credit losses (148,438 ) (148,438 ) (212,514 )
Balance of deteriorated loans not reserved $ 26,403  $ 29,931  $ 29,805  
Interest recognized on deteriorated loans $ — $ 3,185  $ 18,937  
 Represents cash interest recognized in the period.(1)
(2)
(3)
(1) 
(2) 
(3)
(1)
(1
97
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8. Investments in Unconsolidated Entities 
We participate in a number of joint ventures, which generally invest in seniors housing and health care real estate. Our share of the results of operations for these
properties has been included in our consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition by the joint ventures and are reflected in our Consolidated Statements
of Comprehensive Income as income or loss from unconsolidated entities. The following is a summary of our investments in unconsolidated entities (dollars in
thousands):
Percentage Ownership December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
Seniors Housing Operating 10% to 65% $ 1,171,307  $ 830,647  
Triple-net 10% to 88% 111,812  44,814  
Outpatient Medical 15% to 50% 216,671  163,582  
Total $ 1,499,790  $ 1,039,043  
 As of December 31, 2022 and includes ownership of investments classified as liabilities and excludes ownership of in-substance real estate.
We own 34% of Sunrise Senior Living Management, Inc. ("Sunrise"), who provides comprehensive property management and accounting services with respect to
certain of our Seniors Housing Operating properties that Sunrise operates. We pay Sunrise annual management fees pursuant to long-term management agreements. The
majority of our management agreements have initial terms expiring in 2028, plus, if applicable, optional renewal periods ranging from an additional 3 to 15 years
depending on the property. The management fees payable to Sunrise under the management agreements include a fee based on a percentage of revenues generated by
the applicable properties plus, if applicable, positive or negative adjustments based on specified performance targets. For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and
2020, we recognized fees to Sunrise of $27,660,000, $37,052,000 and $37,569,000, respectively, which are reflected within property operating expenses in our
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. 
At December 31, 2022, the aggregate unamortized basis difference of our joint venture investments of $131,746,000 is primarily attributable to the difference between
the amount for which we purchased our interest in the entity, including transaction costs, and the historical carrying value of the net assets of the joint venture. This
difference is being amortized over the remaining useful life of the related properties and included in the reported amount of income from unconsolidated entities.
We have made loans related to 21 properties as of December 31, 2022 for the development and construction of certain properties which are classified as in substance
real estate investments and have a carrying value of $649,267,000. We believe that such borrowers typically represent VIEs in accordance with ASC 810. VIEs are
required to be consolidated by their primary beneficiary, which is the enterprise that has both: (i) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly
impacts the entity’s economic performance; and (ii) the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of the VIE that could be significant to the entity. We
have concluded that we are not the primary beneficiary of such borrowers, therefore, the loan arrangements were assessed based on among other factors, the amount and
timing of expected residual profits, the estimated fair value of the collateral and the significance of the borrower’s equity in the project. Based on these assessments the
arrangements have been classified as in substance real estate investments. We expect to fund an additional $171,851,000 related to these investments.
9. Credit Concentration
We use consolidated net operating income (“NOI”) as our credit concentration metric. See Note 18 for additional information and reconciliation. The following table
summarizes certain information about our credit concentration for the year ended December 31, 2022, excluding our share of NOI in unconsolidated entities (dollars in
thousands):
Number of Total Percent of
Concentration by relationship: Properties NOI NOI
ProMedica 58 $ 240,128  10%
Sunrise Senior Living 109 158,576  7%
Atria Senior Living 97 145,252  6%
HC-One Group 1 86,667  4%
Cogir Management Corporation 48 77,115 3%
Remaining portfolio 1,430  1,594,107  70%
Totals 1,743  $ 2,301,845  100%
 ProMedica and HC-One Group are in our Triple-net segment. Sunrise Senior Living ("Sunrise"), Atria Senior Living and Cogir Management Corporation are in our Seniors Housing Operating segment.
 NOI with our top five relationships comprised 34% of total NOI for the year ending December 31, 2021.
 For the year ended December 31, 2022, we recognized $836,713,000 of revenue from properties managed by Sunrise.
 Inclusive of $58,621,000 of income recognized upon termination of a lease. See Note 3 for further details.
 In addition to the one property, HC-One Group is the borrower on a loan with a principal balance of £517,099,000 as of December 31, 2022. See Note 7 for further detail.(1)
(1)
(1) (2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
98
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In December 2022, ProMedica relinquished to Welltower its 15% interest in 147 skilled nursing facilities previously owned by the Welltower/ProMedica joint venture
in exchange for a lease modification, which relieved ProMedica from its lease obligation on the properties and amended the lease on the remaining 58 assisted living
and memory care properties that continue to be held by the Welltower/ProMedica joint venture. The reduction of ProMedica's noncontrolling interest of $273,504,000
resulting from its relinquishment of the interest in the joint venture previously holding the 147 skilled nursing facilities is a non-cash financing activity excluded from
our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The 58 assisted living and memory care assets continue to be operated by ProMedica and backed by the existing guaranty.
Concurrently with the above, Welltower and Integra Healthcare Properties ("Integra") entered into master leases for the skilled nursing portfolio. Approximately 15
regional operators will enter into subleases with Integra to operate the properties. Also in December 2022, we sold to Integra a 15% ownership interest in 54 of those
skilled nursing facilities for approximately $73 million, with no gain recognized as the properties continue to be consolidated following the transaction. This transaction
represents the initial tranche of the newly formed joint venture owned 85% by Welltower and 15% by Integra, which is anticipated to include the 147 skilled nursing
facilities. In January 2023, Integra acquired a 15% interest in 31 of the remaining 93 skilled nursing facilities for approximately $74 million, representing the second
tranche of the WELL/Integra joint venture.
ProMedica NOI for the year ended December 31, 2022 was comprised of $59,687,000 relating to the 58 assisted living and memory care properties (3% of total NOI)
and $180,441,000 relating to the 147 skilled nursing properties (8% of total NOI).
10. Borrowings Under Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Program
At December 31, 2022, we had a primary unsecured credit facility with a consortium of 31 banks that included a $4,000,000,000 unsecured revolving credit facility, a
$1,000,000,000 unsecured term credit facility and a $250,000,000 Canadian-denominated unsecured term credit facility. The unsecured revolving credit facility is
comprised of a $1,000,000,000 tranche that matures on June 4, 2026 (none outstanding at December 31, 2022) and a $3,000,000,000 tranche that matures on June 4,
2025 (none outstanding at December 31, 2022). The term credit facilities mature on July 19, 2026. Each tranche of the revolving facility and term loans may be
extended for two successive terms of six months at our option. We have an option, through an accordion feature, to upsize the unsecured revolving credit facility and the
$1,000,000,000 unsecured term credit facility by up to an additional $1,250,000,000, in the aggregate, and the $250,000,000 Canadian-denominated unsecured term
credit facility by up to an additional $250,000,000. The primary unsecured credit facility also allows us to borrow up to $1,000,000,000 in alternate currencies (none
outstanding at December 31, 2022). Borrowings under the unsecured revolving credit facility are subject to interest payable at the applicable margin over the secured
overnight financing rate ("SOFR") interest rate. Based on our current credit ratings, the loans under the unsecured revolving credit facility currently bear interest at
0.775% over the adjusted SOFR rate at December 31, 2022. In addition, we pay a facility fee quarterly to each bank based on the bank’s commitment amount. The
facility fee depends on our debt ratings and was 0.15% at December 31, 2022. 
Under the terms of our commercial paper program, we may issue unsecured commercial paper notes with maturities that vary, but do not exceed 397 days from the
date of issue, up to a maximum aggregate face or principal amount outstanding at any time of $1,000,000,000 (none outstanding at December 31, 2022).
The following information relates to aggregate borrowings under the unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program for the periods presented
(dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Balance outstanding at year end $ — $ 325,000  $ — 
Maximum amount outstanding at any month end $ 1,565,000  $ 994,000  $ 2,100,000  
Average amount outstanding (total of daily principal balances
divided by days in period) $ 766,167  $ 384,418  $ 497,014  
Weighted-average interest rate (actual interest expense divided
by average borrowings outstanding) 1.75 % 0.33 % 2.09 %
 
11. Senior Unsecured Notes and Secured Debt
We may repurchase, redeem or refinance senior unsecured notes from time to time, taking advantage of favorable market conditions when available. We may purchase
senior notes for cash through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, a tender offer or, in some cases, through the early redemption of such securities
pursuant to their terms. The senior unsecured notes are redeemable at our option, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at a redemption price equal to the
sum of: (i) the principal amount of the notes (or portion of such notes) being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon up to the redemption date and (ii) any
“make-whole” amount due under the terms of the notes in connection with early redemptions. Redemptions and repurchases of debt, if any, will depend on prevailing
market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, and other factors. At December 31, 2022, the annual principal payments due on these debt
obligations were as follows (in thousands):
99
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Senior Unsecured Notes Secured Debt Totals
2023 $ — $ 627,672  $ 627,672  
2024 1,350,000  345,400  1,695,400  
2025 1,260,000  267,1 17 1,527,1 17 
2026 700,000  127,454  827,454  
2027 1,906,444  184,491  2,090,935  
Thereafter 7,368,085  577,820  7,945,905  
Totals $ 12,584,529  $ 2,129,954  $ 14,714,483  
 Amounts represent principal amounts due and do not include unamortized premiums/discounts, debt issuance costs, or other fair value adjustments as reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 Annual interest rates range from 2.05% to 6.50%.
 All senior unsecured notes, with the exception of the $300,000,000 Canadian-denominated 2.95% senior unsecured notes due 2027 have been issued by Welltower OP and are fully and unconditionally
guaranteed by Welltower. The $300,000,000 Canadian-denominated 2.95% senior unsecured notes due 2027 have been issued through private placement by a wholly owned subsidiary of Welltower OP and are
fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Welltower OP.
Annual interest rates range from 1.25% to 7.00%. Carrying value of the properties securing the debt totaled $4,882,151,000 at December 31, 2022.
 Includes a $1,000,000,000 unsecured term loan and a $250,000,000 Canadian-denominated unsecured term loan (approximately $184,747,000 based on the Canadian/U.S. Dollar exchange rate on December
31, 2022). Both term loans mature on July 19, 2026 and may be extended for two successive terms of six months at our option. The loans bears interest at adjusted SOFR plus 0.85% 5.29% at December 31,
2022) and Canadian Dealer Offered Rate plus 0.85% (5.56% at December 31, 2022), respectively.
 Includes a $300,000,000 Canadian-denominated 2.95% senior unsecured notes due 2027 (approximately $221,697,000 based on the Canadian/U.S. Dollar exchange rate on December 31, 2022).
 Includes a £550,000,000 4.80% senior unsecured notes due 2028 (approximately $664,235,000 based on the Pounds Sterling/U.S. Dollar exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2022).
 Includes a £500,000,000 4.50% senior unsecured notes due 2034 (approximately $603,850,000 based on the Pounds Sterling/U.S. Dollar exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2022).
Welltower, the parent entity that consolidates Welltower OP and all other subsidiaries, fully and unconditionally guarantees to each holder of all series of senior
unsecured notes issued by Welltower OP that the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the notes will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at the
applicable maturity date, by acceleration or redemption or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of and interest on the notes, if any, if lawful, and all other
obligations of Welltower OP to the holders of the notes will be promptly paid in full or performed. Welltower’s guarantees of such notes are its senior unsecured
obligation and rank equally with all of Welltower’s other future unsecured senior indebtedness and guarantees from time to time outstanding. Welltower’s guarantees of
such notes are effectively subordinated to all liabilities of its subsidiaries and to its secured indebtedness to the extent of the assets securing such indebtedness. Because
Welltower conducts substantially all of its business through its subsidiaries, Welltower's ability to make required payments with respect to the guarantees depends on the
financial results and condition of its subsidiaries and its ability to receive funds from its subsidiaries, whether by dividends, loans, distributions or other payments.
The following is a summary of our senior unsecured notes principal activity during the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.
 Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate
Beginning balance $ 11,707,961  3.67% $ 11,509,533  3.67% $ 10,427,562  4.03%
Debt issued 1,050,000  3.08% 1,750,000  2.57% 1,600,000  1.89%
Debt extinguished — —% (1,533,752 ) 2.42% (566,248 ) 3.26%
Foreign currency (173,432 ) 4.43% (17,820 ) 4.55% 48,219  4.35%
Ending balance $ 12,584,529  4.06% $ 11,707,961  3.67% $ 11,509,533  3.67%
 Includes the impact of interest rate swaps and interest rate caps.(1,2,3) (1,4)
(5,6)
(7,8)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(1)
(1)
100
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following is a summary of our secured debt principal activity for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.  Weighted Avg.
 Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate
Beginning balance $ 2,202,312  3.03% $ 2,378,073  3.27% $ 2,993,342  3.63%
Debt issued 113,183  4.71% 23,569  2.83% 62,055  2.55%
Debt assumed 328,096  5.86% — —% — —%
Debt extinguished (399,066 ) 5.54% (132,031 ) 5.86% (632,288 ) 2.21%
Principal payments (58,114) 3.48% (65,587 ) 3.40% (62,707 ) 3.63%
Foreign currency (56,457 ) 3.27% (1,712 ) 2.72% 17,671  2.93%
Ending balance $ 2,129,954  4.33% $ 2,202,312  3.03% $ 2,378,073  3.27%
 Includes the impact of interest rate swaps and interest rate caps.
Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Certain agreements require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net
worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. As of December 31, 2022, we were in
compliance in all material respects with all of the covenants under our debt agreements.
12. Derivative Instruments
We are exposed to, among other risks, the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our non-U.S. investments and interest rate risk related to
our capital structure. Our risk management program is designed to manage the exposure and volatility arising from these risks, and utilizes foreign currency forward
contracts, cross currency swap contracts, interest rate swaps, interest rate locks and debt issued in foreign currencies to offset a portion of these risks.
Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Designated as Cash Flow Hedges
For instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is deferred as a component of other
comprehensive income (“OCI”) and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods, during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Gains and losses on
the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in earnings. 
Cash Flow Hedges and Fair Value Hedges of Interest Rate Risk
We enter into interest rate swaps in order to maintain a capital structure containing targeted amounts of fixed and floating-rate debt and manage interest rate risk.
Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges involve the receipt of variable amounts from a counterparty in exchange for our fixed-rate payments. These interest
rate swap agreements are used to hedge the variable cash flows associated with variable-rate debt.
Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges involve the receipt of fixed amounts from a counterparty in exchange for our variable-rate payments. These interest
rate swap agreements hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate debt attributable to changes in the designated benchmark interest rate. For derivative
instruments that are designated and qualify as a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item
attributable to the hedged risk, are recognized in earnings. We record the gain or loss on the hedged items in interest expense, the same line item as the offsetting loss or
gain on the related interest rate swaps. In March 2022, we entered into a fixed to floating swap in connection with our March senior note issuance. The carrying amount
of the notes, exclusive of the hedge, is $545,381,000. The fair value of the swap as of December 31, 2022 was ($55,727,000) and was recorded as a derivative liability
with an offset to senior unsecured notes on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Periodically, we enter into and designate interest rate locks to partially hedge the risk of changes in interest payments attributable to increases in the benchmark
interest rate during the period leading up to the probable issuance of fixed-rate debt. We designate our interest rate locks as cash flow hedges. Gains and losses when we
settle our interest rate locks are amortized into earnings over the life of the related debt, except where a material amount is deemed to be ineffective, which would be
immediately recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. Approximately $2,562,000 of losses, which are included in OCI, are expected to be
reclassified into earnings in the next 12 months.
Foreign Currency Forward Contracts and Cross Currency Swap Contracts Designated as Net Investment Hedges
We use foreign currency forward and cross currency forward swap contracts to hedge a portion of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries against fluctuations in
foreign exchange rates. For instruments that are designated and qualify as net investment hedges, the variability in the foreign currency to U.S. Dollar of the instrument
is recorded as a cumulative translation adjustment component of OCI. (1)
(1)
101
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
During the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020 we settled certain net investment hedges generating cash proceeds of $61,853,000, and $14,505,000, and
necessitating cash payments of $1,988,000, respectively. The balance of the cumulative translation adjustment will be reclassified to earnings if the hedged investment is
sold or substantially liquidated.
Derivative Contracts Undesignated
We use foreign currency exchange contracts to manage existing exposures to foreign currency exchange risk. Gains and losses resulting from the changes in fair value
of these instruments are recorded in interest expense on the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, and are substantially offset by net revaluation impacts
on foreign currency denominated balance sheet exposures. In addition, we have several interest rate cap contracts related to variable rate secured debt agreements. Gains
and losses resulting from the changes in fair values of these instruments are also recorded in interest expense.
Equity Warrants
We received equity warrants through our lending activities further described in Note 7, which were accounted for as loan origination fees. The warrants provide us the
right to participate in the capital appreciation of HC-One Group real estate portfolio above a designated price upon liquidation and contain net settlement terms
qualifying as derivatives under ASC Topic 815. The warrants are classified within receivables and other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These warrants are
measured at fair value with changes in fair value being recognized within gain (loss) on derivatives and financial instruments in our Consolidated Statements of
Comprehensive Income.
The following presents the notional amount of derivatives and other financial instruments as of the dates indicated (in thousands):
December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
Derivatives designated as net investment hedges:
Denominated in Canadian Dollars $ 1,075,000  $ 675,000  
Denominated in Pound Sterling £ 1,890,708  £ 1,904,708  
Financial instruments designated as net investment hedges:
Denominated in Canadian Dollars $ 250,000  $ 250,000  
Denominated in Pound Sterling £ 1,050,000  £ 1,050,000  
Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges:
Denominated in U.S. Dollars $ 25,000  $ 25,000  
Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges:
Denominated in U.S. Dollars $ 550,000  $ — 
Derivative instruments not designated:
Interest rate caps denominated in U.S. Dollars $ 26,137  $ 26,137  
Forward sales contracts denominated in Canadian Dollars $ 80,000  $ 80,000  
 At December 31, 2022 the maximum maturity date was November 1, 2023.
The following presents the impact of derivative instruments on the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the periods presented (in thousands):
  Year Ended
Description Location December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Gain (loss) on derivative instruments designated as hedges recognized
in income Interest expense $ 28,894 $ 23,133 $ 22,698 
Gain (loss) on derivative instruments not designated as hedges
recognized in income Interest expense $ 4,255 $ (433)$ (5,982)
Gain (loss) on equity warrants recognized in incomeGain (loss) on derivatives and financial
instruments, net $ (6,837)$ 10,361 $ — 
Gain (loss) on derivative and financial instruments designated as hedges
recognized in OCI OCI $ 442,620 $ 79,702 $ (134,369)
13. Commitments and Contingencies
At December 31, 2022, we had 21 outstanding letter of credit obligations totaling $68,217,000 and expiring during 2023. At December 31, 2022, we had outstanding
construction in progress of $1,021,080,000 and were committed to providing additional funds of approximately $1,883,449,000 to complete construction. Additionally,
at December 31, 2022, we had outstanding investments classified as in substance real estate of $649,267,000 and were committed to provide additional funds of
$171,851,000 (see Note 8 for additional information). Purchase obligations include $41,049,000 of contingent purchase obligations to fund capital improvements. Rents
due from the tenants are increased to reflect the additional investment in the property.(1)
(1)
102
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
14. Stockholders’ Equity 
The following is a summary of our stockholders’ equity capital accounts as of the dates indicated:
December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
Preferred Stock, $ 1.00 par value:
Authorized shares 50,000,000  50,000,000
Issued shares — — 
Outstanding shares — — 
Common Stock, $ 1.00 par value:
Authorized shares 700,000,000  700,000,000  
Issued shares 492,283,488  448,998,438  
Outstanding shares 490,508,937  447,239,477  
Common Stock
In April 2022, we entered into an amended and restated equity distribution agreement whereby we can offer and sell up to $3,000,000,000 aggregate amount of our
common stock ("ATM Program"). The ATM Program also allows us to enter into forward sale agreements. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we physically
settled all of our outstanding forward sale agreements for cash proceeds of $3,667,691,000. As of December 31, 2022, we had $1,150,203,000 of remaining capacity
under the ATM Program.
On May 1, 2020, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program whereby we may repurchase up to $1 billion of common stock through December 31,
2021. On November 7, 2022, our Board of Directors approved a follow on share repurchase program for up to $3 billion of common stock (the "Stock Repurchase
Program"). Under the Stock Repurchase Program, we are not required to purchase shares but may choose to do so in the open market or through privately-negotiated
transactions, through block trades, by effecting a tender offer, by way of an accelerated share repurchase program, through the purchase of call options or the sale of put
options, or otherwise, or by any combination of the foregoing. We expect to finance any share repurchases using available cash and may use proceeds from borrowings
or debt offerings. The Stock Repurchase Program has no expiration date and does not obligate us to repurchase any specific number of shares. During the year ended
December 31, 2020, we repurchased 201,947 shares at an average price of $37.89 per share. We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock during the years
ended December 31, 2021 or December 31, 2022.
The following is a summary of our common stock issuances during the periods indicated (dollars in thousands, except shares and average price amounts):
Shares Issued Average Price Gross Proceeds Net Proceeds
2020 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances 264,153  $ 72.33  $ 19,105  $ 19,105  
2020 Option exercises 251 47.81  12 12 
2020 ATM Program issuances 6,799,978  86.48  588,072  576,196  
2020 Stock incentive plans, net of forfeitures 281,552  — — 
2020 Totals 7,345,934  $ 607,189  $ 595,313  
2021 Option exercises 338 $ 56.21  $ 19 $ 19 
2021 ATM Program issuances 29,667,348  80.41  2,385,683  2,348,182  
2021 Stock incentive plans, net of forfeitures 171,189  — — 
2021 Totals 29,838,875  $ 2,385,702  $ 2,348,201  
2022 Option exercises 2,433 $ 67.00  $ 163 $ 163 
2022 ATM Program issuances 43,092,888 86.23 3,715,971  3,667,691  
2022 Redemption of OP  Units and DownREIT  Units 5,498 — — 
2022 Stock incentive plans, net of forfeitures 168,641 — — 
2022 Totals 43,269,460  $ 3,716,134  $ 3,667,854  
103
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Dividends 
During the year ended December 31, 2020, we declared a reduced cash dividend beginning with the quarter ended March 31, 2020. Please refer to Note 19 for
information related to federal income tax of dividends. The following is a summary of our dividend payments (in thousands, except per share amounts):
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
  Per Share Amount Per Share Amount Per Share Amount
Common stock $ 2.44 $ 1,133,182  $ 2.44 $ 1,037,194  $ 2.70 $ 1,120,187  
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
The following is a summary of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) for the periods presented (in thousands):
 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
Foreign currency translation $ (1,115,317 )$ (674,306 )
Derivative and financial instruments designated as hedges 995,610  552,990  
Total accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) $ (119,707 )$ (121,316 )
15. Stock Incentive Plans
In March 2022, our Board of Directors approved the 2022 Long-Term Plan ("2022 Plan"), which authorizes up to 10,000,000 shares of common stock to be issued at
the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. Awards granted after March 28, 2022 will be issued out of the 2022 Plan. The awards granted
under the 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan continue to vest and options expire ten years from the date of grant. Our non-employee directors, officers and key employees
are eligible to participate in the 2022 Plan. The 2022 Plan allows for the issuance of, among other things, stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock,
deferred stock units, performance units, and dividend equivalent rights. Vesting periods for options, deferred stock units and restricted shares generally range from three
to five years. Options expire ten years from the date of grant.
Under our long-term incentive plan, certain restricted stock awards are market, performance and time-based. For market and performance based awards, we will grant
a target number of restricted stock units, with the ultimate award determined by the total shareholder return and operating performance metrics, measured in each case
over a measurement period of three to four years. Performance based awards vest after the end of the performance periods. The expected term represents the period from
the grant date to the end of the performance period. Compensation expense for performance based awards is measured based on the probability of achievement of
certain performance goals and is recognized over the performance period. For the portion of the grant for which the award is determined by the operating performance
metrics, the compensation cost is based on the grant date closing price and management’s estimate of corporate achievement of the financial metrics. If the estimated
number of performance based restricted stock to be earned changes, an adjustment will be recorded to recognize the accumulated difference between the revised and
previous estimates. For the portion of the grant determined by the total shareholder return ("TSR"), management used a Monte Carlo model to assess the fair value and
compensation cost. For time based awards, the fair value of the restricted stock is equal to the market price of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant and is
amortized over the vesting periods. For purposes of measuring stock-based compensation expense, we consider whether an adjustment to the observable market price is
necessary to reflect material nonpublic information that is known to us at the time the award is granted. No adjustments were deemed necessary for the years ended
December 31, 2022, 2021, or 2020. Forfeitures are accounted for as they occur.
The following table summarizes compensation expense recognized for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Stock options $ 2,378 $ 1,088 $ — 
Restricted stock 23,771  16,724  28,318  
Total compensation expense $ 26,149  $ 17,812  $ 28,318  
104
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Stock Options
The following is a summary of time-based stock option activity in 2022:
SharesWeighted Average Exercise
PriceWeighted Average Remaining Contractual
Life (years) Intrinsic Value ($000's)
Outstanding as of December 31, 2021 311,306  $ 67.17  
Options granted 256,716  86.23
Options exercised (2,433 ) 67.17
Options forfeited (14,074 ) 76.02
Options expired — — 
Outstanding as of December 31, 2022 551,515 $ 75.82  8.76 $ — 
Exercisable as of December 31, 2022 75,383 $ 67.17  8.50 $ — 
The Company used the Black-Scholes Option Pricing model to determine the grant date fair value of time-based options. The weighted-average assumptions used are
as follows:
2022
Dividend yield 2.83%
Estimated volatility 32.84 %
Risk free rate 1.61%
Expected life of options 6 years
Estimated fair value $21.15
 Estimated volatility is using 50% historical volatility and 50% implied volatility.
As of December 31, 2022, there was $6,269,000 of total unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested time-based stock options that is expected to be
recognized over a weighted-average period of three years.
During December 2021, we granted 832,356 performance-based stock options at a weighted average exercise price of $83.44. During the year ended December 31,
2022, 7,140 options were forfeited resulting in 825,216 outstanding and non-vested options at December 31, 2022. The grant date fair value of $20.31 was estimated on
the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. These options have a performance condition based on a Funds From Operations goal measured over the
performance period of January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2024. These awards vest over two years after the end of the performance period, with a portion vesting
immediately at the end of the performance period. Compensation expense is measured based on the probability of achievement of the performance goal and is
recognized over both the performance period and vesting period. At December 31, 2022, the performance goal is not probable of being achieved.
Restricted Stock
During January 2022, we granted 936,915 performance-based restricted stock awards under the terms of an Out Performance Program ("OPP"), all of which were
outstanding and non-vested at December 31, 2022. The grant date fair value of $27.60 was estimated on the date of grant using a Monte Carlo model. These awards
have performance conditions based on a Funds From Operations goal and absolute and relative TSR goals measured over the performance period of January 1, 2022 to
December 31, 2025. These awards vest after the end of the performance period. Compensation expense is measured based on the probability of achievement of the
performance goals and is recognized over the performance period. At December 31, 2022, the performance goals are not probable of being achieved.
The following is a summary of the status of our non-vested restricted stock (including market, performance, and time-based awards, and excluding OPP awards) as of
December 31, 2022, and changes during the year ended December 31, 2022:
 Restricted Stock
 Number of SharesWeighted-A verage
Grant Date Fair Value
Non-vested at December 31, 2021 566,227  $ 76.28  
Vested (168,275 ) 82.78
Granted 303,566  98.49
Change in awards based on performance 120,959  82.42
Forfeited or expired (19,150 ) 83.56
Non-vested at December 31, 2022 803,327  $ 84.78  
 Represents the change in number of market and performance based awards earned based on performance achievement.(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
105
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
We used a Monte Carlo model to assess the compensation cost associated with the portion of the market awards granted for which achievement will be determined
using total shareholder return measures. The model also considers a post-vesting holding period. The weighted-average assumptions used are as follows:
2022
Dividend yield 2.83%
Estimated volatility over the life of the plan 26.31 % - 56.62 %
Risk free rate 0.08% - 1.20%
Estimated market based performance award value based on total shareholder return measure $111.27
 Estimated volatility over the life of the plan is using 50% historical volatility and 50% implied volatility.
As of December 31, 2022, there was $27,943,000 of total unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested restricted stock that is expected to be recognized
over a weighted-average period of two years. 
Defined Contribution Plan
We sponsor a 401(k) plan which is available to substantially all U.S. employees. We match a percentage of employee contributions up to 5% of an employee's wages
and provide a discretionary profit sharing contribution calculated as a percentage of eligible compensation. We recognized expense of $3,984,000, $3,477,000 and
$3,323,000 during the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, related to this plan.
16. Earnings Per Share
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share (in thousands, except per share data):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Numerator for basic earnings per share - net income attributable
 to common stockholders $ 141,214  $ 336,138  $ 978,844  
Adjustment for net income (loss) attributable to OP  Units and DownREIT  Units 165 (3,020 ) (6,146 )
Numerator for diluted earnings per share $ 141,379  $ 333,1 18 $ 972,698  
Denominator for basic earnings per share - weighted average shares 462,185  424,976  415,451  
Effect of dilutive securities:
Employee stock options 20 — — 
Non-vested restricted shares 1,058  447 519 
OP Units and DownREIT  Units 1,865  1,396  1,396  
Employee stock purchase program 30 22 21 
Dilutive potential common shares 2,973  1,865  1,936  
Denominator for diluted earnings per share - adjusted weighted average shares 465,158  426,841  417,387  
Basic earnings per share $ 0.31 $ 0.79 $ 2.36 
Diluted earnings per share $ 0.30 $ 0.78 $ 2.33 
As of December 31, 2021, outstanding forward sales agreements for the sale of 5,187,250 shares were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share
because such forward sales were anti-dilutive for the period. There were no outstanding forward sale agreements as of December 31, 2022 or December 31, 2020.
Employee stock options were anti-dilutive for 2021 and 2020.
17. Disclosure about Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous
market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. A three-level valuation hierarchy exists for disclosures of
fair value measurements based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date. A financial instrument's categorization
within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The three levels are defined below:(1)
(1)
106
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
• Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
• Level 2 - Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other
inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. 
• Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. 
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate that value: 
Mortgage Loans, Other Real Estate Loans and Non-real Estate Loans Receivable — The fair value of mortgage loans, other real estate loans and non-real estate loans
receivable is generally estimated by using Level 2 and Level 3 inputs such as discounting the estimated future cash flows using the current rates at which similar loans
would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and for the same remaining maturities. 
Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash — The carrying amount approximates fair value. 
Equity Securities — Equity securities are recorded at their fair value based on Level 1 publicly available trading prices. 
Equity Warrants — The fair value of equity warrants is estimated using Level 3 inputs and includes data points such as enterprise value of the underlying HC-One
Group real estate portfolio, marketability discount for private company warrants, dividend yield, volatility and risk-free rate. The enterprise value is driven by projected
cash flows, weighted average cost of capital and a terminal capitalization rate.
Borrowings Under Primary Unsecured Credit Facility and Commercial Paper Program — The carrying amount of the primary unsecured credit facility and commercial
paper program approximates fair value because the borrowings are interest rate adjustable. 
Senior Unsecured Notes — The fair value of the senior unsecured notes payable was estimated based on Level 1 publicly available trading prices. The carrying amount
of the variable rate senior unsecured notes approximates fair value because they are interest rate adjustable. 
Secured Debt — The fair value of fixed rate secured debt is estimated using Level 2 inputs by discounting the estimated future cash flows using the current rates at
which similar loans would be made with similar credit ratings and for the same remaining maturities. The carrying amount of variable rate secured debt approximates
fair value because the borrowings are interest rate adjustable. 
Foreign Currency Forward Contracts, Interest Rate Swaps and Cross Currency Swaps — Foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swaps and cross currency
swaps are recorded in other assets or other liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value that is derived from observable market data, including yield curves and foreign
exchange rates.
Redeemable DownREIT Unitholder Interests — Our redeemable DownREIT unitholder interests are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value using Level 2 inputs
unless the fair value is below the initial amount, in which case the redeemable DownREIT unitholder interests are recorded at the initial amount adjusted for
distributions to the unitholders and income or loss attributable to the unitholders. The fair value is measured using the closing price of our common stock, as units may
be redeemed at the election of the holder for cash or, at our option, one share of our common stock per unit, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. 
107
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of our financial instruments are as follows (in thousands):
 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
 Amount Value Amount Value
Financial assets:     
Mortgage loans receivable $ 697,906  $ 739,159  $ 877,102  $ 932,552  
Other real estate loans receivable 192,938  190,977  191,579  193,999  
Equity securities 111 111 1,608  1,608  
Cash and cash equivalents 631,681  631,681  269,265  269,265  
Restricted cash 90,61 1 90,61 1 77,490  77,490  
Non-real estate loans receivable 289,168  277,601  223,627  241,544  
Foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swaps and cross currency
swaps 191,357  191,357  7,205  7,205  
Equity warrants 30,436  30,436  41,909  41,909  
Financial liabilities:
Borrowings under unsecured credit facility and commercial paper program $ — $ — $ 324,935  $ 324,935  
Senior unsecured notes 12,437,273  11,381,873  11,613,758  13,139,748  
Secured debt 2,110,815  2,054,889  2,192,261  2,252,107  
Foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swaps and cross currency
swaps 55,727  55,727  39,296  39,296  
Redeemable DownREIT  unitholder interests $ 75,355  $ 75,355  $ 153,098  $ 153,098  
Items Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis 
The market approach is utilized to measure fair value for our financial assets and liabilities reported at fair value on a recurring basis. The market approach uses prices
and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets or liabilities. The following summarizes items measured at fair
value on a recurring basis (in thousands):
 Fair Value Measurements as of December 31, 2022
 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Equity securities $ 111 $ 111 $ — $ — 
Equity warrants 30,436  — — 30,436  
Foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swaps and cross currency
swaps, net asset (liability) 135,630  — 135,630  — 
Totals $ 166,177  $ 111 $ 135,630  $ 30,436  
 Please see Note 12 for additional information.
The following table summarizes the change in fair value for equity warrants using unobservable Level 3 inputs for the years presented (in thousands):
Years Ended
 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
Beginning balance $ 41,909  $ — 
Warrants acquired — 32,419  
Mark-to-market adjustment (6,837 ) 10,361  
Foreign currency (4,636 ) (871)
Ending balance $ 30,436  $ 41,909  
The most significant assumptions utilized in the valuation of the equity warrants are the cash flows of the underlying HC-One Group enterprise, as well as the
terminal capitalization rate of 10.5%.
Items Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis 
In addition to items that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, we also have assets and liabilities in our balance sheet that are measured at fair value on a
nonrecurring basis that are not included in the tables above. Assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interests that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include
those acquired or assumed. Asset impairments (if applicable, see Note 5 for impairments of real property and Note 7 for impairments of loans receivable) are also
measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. We have determined that the fair value measurements included in each of these(1)
(1)
108
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
assets and liabilities rely primarily on company-specific inputs and our assumptions about the use of the assets and settlement of liabilities, as observable inputs are not
available. As such, we have determined that each of these fair value measurements generally resides within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. We estimate the fair value
of real estate and related intangibles using the income approach and unobservable data such as net operating income and estimated capitalization and discount rates. We
also consider local and national industry market data including comparable sales, and commonly engage an external real estate appraiser to assist us in our estimation of
fair value. We estimate the fair value of assets held for sale based on current sales price expectations or, in the absence of such price expectations, Level 3 inputs
described above. We estimate the fair value of loans receivable using projected payoff valuations based on the expected future cash flows and/or the estimated fair value
of collateral, net of sales costs, if the repayment of the loan is expected to be provided solely by the collateral. We estimate the fair value of secured debt assumed in
asset acquisitions using current interest rates at which similar borrowings could be obtained on the transaction date. 
18. Segment Reporting
We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate. We evaluate our business and make resource allocations on our three operating segments: Seniors Housing
Operating, Triple-net and Outpatient Medical. Our Seniors Housing Operating properties include seniors apartments, assisted living, independent living/continuing care
retirement communities, independent supportive living communities (Canada), care homes with and without nursing (U.K.) and combinations thereof that are owned
and/or operated through RIDEA structures (see Note 19). Our Triple-net properties include the property types described above as well as long-term/post-acute care
facilities. Under the Triple-net segment, we invest in seniors housing and health care real estate through acquisition and financing of primarily single tenant
properties. Properties acquired are primarily leased under triple-net leases and we are not involved in the management of the property. Our Outpatient Medical
properties are typically leased to multiple tenants and generally require a certain level of property management by us.
We evaluate performance based upon consolidated NOI of each segment. We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property operating
expenses. We believe NOI provides investors relevant and useful information as it measures the operating performance of our properties at the property level on an
unleveraged basis. We use NOI to make decisions about resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our properties.
Non-segment revenue consists mainly of interest income on cash investments recorded in other income. Non-segment assets consist of corporate assets including
cash, deferred loan expenses and corporate offices and equipment among others. Non-property specific revenues and expenses are not allocated to individual segments
in determining NOI.
The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies (see Note 2). The results of operations for
all acquisitions described in Note 3 are included in our consolidated results of operations from the acquisition dates and are components of the appropriate segments. All
inter-segment transactions are eliminated.
109
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Summary information for the reportable segments (which excludes unconsolidated entities) during the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 is as follows
(in thousands):
Year Ended December 31, 2022:Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-net Outpatient MedicalNon-segment /
Corporate Total
Resident fees and services $ 4,173,71 1 $ — $ — $ — $ 4,173,71 1 
Rental income — 782,329  669,457  — 1,451,786  
Interest income 7,867  142,402  302 — 150,571  
Other income 63,839  6,776  8,998  4,934  84,547  
Total revenues 4,245,417  931,507  678,757  4,934  5,860,615  
Property operating expenses 3,292,045  44,483  205,997  16,245  3,558,770  
Consolidated net operating income (loss) 953,372  887,024  472,760  (11,311) 2,301,845  
Depreciation and amortization 854,800  215,887  239,681  — 1,310,368  
Interest expense 34,833  963 18,078  475,645  529,519  
General and administrative expenses — — — 150,390  150,390  
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net — 8,334  — — 8,334  
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 386 80 15 199 680 
Provision for loan losses, net 1,039  9,289  (8) — 10,320  
Impairment of assets 13,146  3,595  761 — 17,502  
Other expenses 66,026  13,043  2,537  20,064  101,670  
Income (loss) from continuing operations before income
taxes and other items (16,858 ) 635,833  211,696  (657,609 ) 173,062  
Income tax (expense) benefit — — — (7,247 ) (7,247 )
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities (53,318 ) 34,495  (2,467 ) — (21,290 )
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 5,794  16,648  (6,399 ) — 16,043  
Income (loss) from continuing operations (64,382 ) 686,976  202,830  (664,856 ) 160,568  
Net income (loss) $ (64,382 )$ 686,976  $ 202,830  $ (664,856 )$ 160,568  
Total assets $ 22,000,732  $ 8,619,314  $ 6,614,887  $ 658,300  $ 37,893,233  
110
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Year Ended December 31, 2021:Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-net Outpatient MedicalNon-segment /
Corporate Total
Resident fees and services $ 3,197,223  $ — $ — $ — $ 3,197,223  
Rental income — 761,441  613,254  — 1,374,695  
Interest income 4,231  124,540  8,792  — 137,563  
Other income 11,796  4,603  13,243  2,992  32,634  
Total revenues 3,213,250  890,584  635,289  2,992  4,742,1 15 
Property operating expenses 2,529,344  49,462  186,939  8,817  2,774,562  
Consolidated net operating income (loss) 683,906  841,122  448,350  (5,825 ) 1,967,553  
Depreciation and amortization 593,565  220,699  223,302  — 1,037,566  
Interest expense 39,327  6,376  17,506  426,644  489,853  
General and administrative expenses — — — 126,727  126,727  
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net — (7,333 ) — — (7,333 )
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net (2,628 ) — (4) 52,506  49,874  
Provision for loan losses, net 394 10,339  (3,463 ) — 7,270  
Impairment of assets 22,317  26,579  2,211 — 51,107  
Other expenses 27,132  4,189  2,523  7,895  41,739  
Income (loss) from continuing operations before income
taxes and other items 3,799  580,273  206,275  (619,597 ) 170,750  
Income tax (expense) benefit — — — (8,713 ) (8,713 )
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities (39,225 ) 20,687  (4,395 ) — (22,933 )
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 6,146  135,881  93,348  — 235,375  
Income (loss) from continuing operations (29,280 ) 736,841  295,228  (628,310 ) 374,479  
Net income (loss) $ (29,280 )$ 736,841  $ 295,228  $ (628,310 )$ 374,479  
Total assets $ 18,851,999  $ 9,710,194  $ 6,204,064  $ 144,068  $ 34,910,325  
111
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Year Ended December 31, 2020:Seniors Housing
Operating Triple-net Outpatient MedicalNon-segment /
Corporate Total
Resident fees and services $ 3,074,022  $ — $ — $ — $ 3,074,022  
Rental income — 733,776  709,584  — 1,443,360  
Interest income 618 62,625  5,913  — 69,156  
Other income 7,223  4,903  4,522  2,781  19,429  
Total revenues 3,081,863  801,304  720,019  2,781  4,605,967  
Property operating expenses 2,326,31 1 53,183  214,948  3,381  2,597,823  
Consolidated net operating income (loss) 755,552  748,121  505,071  (600) 2,008,144  
Depreciation and amortization 544,462  232,604  261,371  — 1,038,437  
Interest expense 54,901  9,477  17,579  432,431  514,388  
General and administrative expenses — — — 128,394  128,394  
Loss (gain) on derivatives and financial instruments, net — 11,049  — — 11,049  
Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net 12,659  — 1,046  33,344  47,049  
Provision for loan losses, net 671 90,563  3,202  — 94,436  
Impairment of assets 100,741  34,867  — — 135,608  
Other expenses 14,265  22,923  8,218  24,929  70,335  
Income (loss) from continuing operations before income
taxes and other items 27,853  346,638  213,655  (619,698 ) (31,552 )
Income tax (expense) benefit — — — (9,968 ) (9,968 )
Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities (33,857 ) 18,462  7,312  — (8,083 )
Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net 328,249  64,288  695,918  — 1,088,455  
Income (loss) from continuing operations 322,245  429,388  916,885  (629,666 ) 1,038,852  
Net income (loss) $ 322,245  $ 429,388  $ 916,885  $ (629,666 )$ 1,038,852  
Our portfolio of properties and other investments are located in the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada. Revenues and assets are attributed to the country
in which the property is physically located. The following is a summary of geographic information for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):
 Year Ended
 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Revenues: Amount % Amount % Amount %
United States $ 4,843,417  82.6 %$ 3,766,707  79.4 %$ 3,720,155  80.8 %
United Kingdom 558,308  9.5 % 552,650  11.7 % 451,399  9.8 %
Canada 458,890  7.9 % 422,758  8.9 % 434,413  9.4 %
Total $ 5,860,615  100.0  %$ 4,742,1 15 100.0  %$ 4,605,967  100.0  %
Year Ended
December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Resident fees and services: Amount % Amount % Amount %
United States $ 3,325,466  79.7 %$ 2,389,257  74.7 %$ 2,321,956  75.5 %
United Kingdom 401,195  9.6 % 396,610  12.4 % 327,687  10.7 %
Canada 447,050  10.7 % 411,356  12.9 % 424,379  13.8 %
Total $ 4,173,71 1 100.0  %$ 3,197,223  100.0  %$ 3,074,022  100.0  %
 As of   
 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021   
Assets: Amount % Amount %   
United States $ 31,740,907  83.8 %$ 28,595,703  81.9 %  
United Kingdom 3,476,793  9.2 % 3,938,258  11.3 % 
Canada 2,675,533  7.0 % 2,376,364  6.8 %  
Total $ 37,893,233  100.0  %$ 34,910,325  100.0  %  
112
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19. Income Taxes and Distributions 
We elected to be taxed as a REIT commencing with our first taxable year. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, at least 90% of taxable income
(excluding 100% of net capital gains) must be distributed to stockholders. REITs that do not distribute a certain amount of taxable income in the current year are also
subject to a 4% federal excise tax. The main differences between undistributed net income for federal income tax purposes and financial statement purposes are the
recognition of straight-line rent for reporting purposes, basis differences in acquisitions, recording of impairments, differing useful lives and depreciation and
amortization methods for real property and the provision for loan losses for reporting purposes versus bad debt expense for tax purposes. 
Cash distributions paid to common stockholders, for federal income tax purposes, are as follows for the periods presented:
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Per share:
Ordinary dividend $ 2.4400  $ 1.4828  $ 1.6389  
Long-term capital gain/(loss) — 0.8371  1.061 1 
Return of capital — 0.1201  — 
Totals $ 2.4400  $ 2.4400  $ 2.7000  
 For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, includes Section 199A dividends of $2.4400, $1.4828 and $1.6389 respectively.
 For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, includes Unrecaptured Section 1250 Gains of $0.0000, $0.4523 and $0.3458, respectively.
Our consolidated provision for income tax expense (benefit) is as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Current tax expense $ 18,289  $ 10,199  $ 11,358  
Deferred tax benefit (11,042 ) (1,486 ) (1,390 )
Income tax expense (benefit) $ 7,247  $ 8,713  $ 9,968  
REITs generally are not subject to U.S. federal income taxes on that portion of REIT taxable income or capital gain that is distributed to stockholders. For the tax year
ended December 31, 2022, as a result of ownership of investments in Canada and the U.K., we were subject to foreign income taxes under the respective tax laws of
these jurisdictions. 
The provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily relates to state taxes, foreign taxes, and taxes based on income generated by entities
that are structured as TRSs. For the tax years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, the foreign tax provision/(benefit) amount included in the consolidated
provision for income taxes was $5,222,000, $6,787,000 and $5,777,000, respectively.
A reconciliation of income taxes, which is computed by applying the federal corporate tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, to the income
tax expense/(benefit) is as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Tax at statutory rate on earnings from continuing operations before unconsolidated entities,
noncontrolling interests and income taxes $ 35,241  $ 80,470  $ 220,252  
Increase (decrease) in valuation allowance 30,237  19,383  85,881  
Tax at statutory rate on earnings not subject to federal income taxes (75,729 ) (117,931 ) (300,196 )
Foreign permanent depreciation 2,033  1,449  1,504  
Other dif ferences 15,465  25,342  2,527  
Totals $ 7,247  $ 8,713  $ 9,968  
 Excluding purchase price accounting.(1)
(2)
(1)
(2)
(1)
(1)
113
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Each TRS and foreign entity subject to income taxes is a tax paying component for purposes of classifying deferred tax assets and liabilities. The tax effects of taxable
and deductible temporary differences, as well as tax asset/(liability) attributes, are summarized as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Investments and property , primarily dif ferences in investment basis, depreciation and amortization, the
basis of land assets and the treatment of interests and certain costs $ (39,212 )$ (32,616 )$ (24,085 )
Operating loss and interest deduction carryforwards 254,852  247,015  196,634  
Expense accruals and other 94,999  53,367  72,459  
Valuation allowances (294,558 ) (264,321 ) (244,938 )
Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) $ 16,081  $ 3,445  $ 70 
On the basis of the evaluations performed as required by the codification, valuation allowances totaling $294,558,000 were recorded on U.S. taxable REIT
subsidiaries as well as entities in other jurisdictions to limit the deferred tax assets to the amount that we believe is more likely than not realizable. However, the amount
of the deferred tax asset considered realizable could be adjusted if (i) estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period are reduced or increased or (ii)
objective negative evidence in the form of cumulative losses is no longer present (and additional weight may be given to subjective evidence such as our projections for
growth). The valuation allowance rollforward is summarized as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Beginning balance $ 264,321  $ 244,938  $ 159,057  
Expense (benefit) 30,237  19,383  85,881  
Ending balance $ 294,558  $ 264,321  $ 244,938  
As a result of certain acquisitions, we are subject to corporate level taxes for any related asset dispositions that may occur during the five-year period immediately
after such assets were owned by a C corporation (“built-in gains tax”). The amount of income potentially subject to this special corporate level tax is generally equal to
the lesser of (i) the excess of the fair value of the asset over its adjusted tax basis as of the date it became a REIT asset, or (ii) the actual amount of gain. Some but not all
gains recognized during this period of time could be offset by available net operating losses and capital loss carryforwards. During the year ended December 31, 2018,
we acquired certain additional assets with built-in gains as of the date of acquisition that could be subject to the built-in gains tax if disposed of prior to the expiration of
the applicable five-year period. We have not recorded a deferred tax liability as a result of the potential built-in gains tax based on our intentions with respect to such
properties and available tax planning strategies.
Given the applicable statute of limitations, we generally are subject to audit by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for the year ended December 31, 2019 and
subsequent years. The statute of limitations may vary in the states in which we own properties or conduct business. We do not expect to be subject to audit by state
taxing authorities for any year prior to the year ended December 31, 2018. We are also subject to audit by the Canada Revenue Agency and provincial authorities
generally for periods subsequent to May 2018 related to entities acquired or formed in connection with acquisitions, and by the U.K.’s HM Revenue & Customs for
periods subsequent to August 2016 related to entities acquired or formed in connection with acquisitions. 
At December 31, 2022, we had a net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforward related to the REIT of $335,293,000. Due to our uncertainty regarding the realization of
certain deferred tax assets, we have not recorded a deferred tax asset related to NOLs generated by the REIT. These amounts can be used to offset future taxable income
(and/or taxable income for prior years if an audit determines that tax is owed), if any. The REIT will be entitled to utilize NOLs and tax credit carryforwards only to the
extent that REIT taxable income exceeds our deduction for dividends paid. The NOL carryforwards generated through December 31, 2018 will expire through
2038. Beginning with the tax years after December 31, 2017, the law eliminates the NOL carryback period for REITs, replaces the 20-year NOL carryforward period
with an indefinite carryforward period and, with respect to tax years beginning after 2020, limits the use of NOLs to 80% of taxable income.
At December 31, 2022 and 2021, we had an NOL carryforward related to Canadian entities of $368,979,000 and $316,821,000 respectively. These Canadian losses
have a 20-year carryforward period. At December 31, 2022 and 2021, we had an NOL carryforward related to U.K. entities of $184,779,000 and $193,998,000
respectively. These U.K. losses do not have a finite carryforward period. 
114
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
20. Variable Interest Entities 
We have entered into joint ventures and have certain subsidiaries that are wholly owned by consolidated joint ventures which own certain seniors housing and
outpatient medical assets which are deemed to be VIEs. We have concluded that we are the primary beneficiary of these VIEs based on a combination of operational
control of the entities and the rights to receive residual returns or the obligation to absorb losses arising from the entities. Except for capital contributions associated with
the initial entity formations, the entities have been and are expected to be funded from the ongoing operations of the underlying properties. Accordingly, such entities
have been consolidated, and the table below summarizes the balance sheets of consolidated VIEs in the aggregate (in thousands):
 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
Assets:
Net real estate investments $ 1,499,078  $ 445,776  
Cash and cash equivalents 15,582  9,964  
Receivables and other assets 9,949  7,617  
Total assets $ 1,524,609  $ 463,357  
Liabilities and equity:
Secured debt $ 155,992  $ 163,519  
Lease liabilities 1,329  1,324  
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 28,417  12,394  
Total equity 1,338,871  286,120  
Total liabilities and equity $ 1,524,609  $ 463,357  
 Note that assets of the consolidated VIEs can only be used to settle obligations relating to such VIEs. Liabilities of the consolidated VIEs represent claims against the specific assets of the VIEs.(1)
(1)
115
Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
Not applicable.
Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
An evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, of the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of the end of
the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and
procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The
Company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary
to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.
Management has assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022 based on the criteria established by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) in a report entitled Internal Control — Integrated Framework.
Based on this assessment, using the criteria above, management concluded that the Company’s system of internal control over financial reporting was effective as of
December 31, 2022.
The independent registered public accounting firm of Ernst & Young LLP, as auditors of the Company’s consolidated financial statements, has issued an attestation
report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
During the third quarter of 2022, we implemented new enterprise resource planning and corporate performance management systems. These implementations
resulted in considerable changes to our processes and control environment, including modifications to existing applications, interfaces and reports. The new systems
were used during the third and fourth quarter of 2022, and the new and modified processes and controls implemented were used to prepare our consolidated financial
statements for the year ended December 31, 2022 included in this report. We will continue to monitor our internal control over financial reporting under the new
systems, including evaluating the operating effectiveness of related key controls.
There were no other changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) that
occurred during the fourth quarter of the one-year period covered by this report that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control
over financial reporting.
116
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Welltower Inc. 
Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
We have audited Welltower Inc. and subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control –
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion,
Welltower Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on
the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance
sheets of Welltower Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the related consolidated statements of comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022, and the related notes and financial statement schedules listed in the index at Item 15(a) and our report
dated February 21, 2023 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to
be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
/s/  Ernst & Young LLP
 
Toledo, Ohio
February 21, 2023
117
Item 9B. Other Information
None.
Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections
Not applicable.
PART III 
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the headings “Election of Directors,” “Corporate Governance,”
“Executive Officers,” and “Security Ownership of Directors and Management and Certain Beneficial Owners — Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) prior to April 30, 2023. 
We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to our directors, officers and employees. The code is posted on the Internet at
www.welltower.com/investors/governance. Any amendment to, or waivers from, the code that relate to any officer or director of the company will be promptly disclosed
on the Internet at www.welltower.com. 
In addition, the Board has adopted charters for the Audit, Compensation and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committees. These charters are posted on the Internet
at www.welltower.com/investors/governance. Please refer to “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations –
Executive Summary – Corporate Governance” in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of corporate governance. 
The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference
only. 
Item 11. Executive Compensation 
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the headings “Executive Compensation” and “Director
Compensation” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior to April 30, 2023.
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the headings “Security Ownership of Directors and Management
and Certain Beneficial Owners” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior to April
30, 2023.
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the headings “Corporate Governance — Independence and
Meetings” and “Security Ownership of Directors and Management and Certain Beneficial Owners — Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in our definitive
proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior to April 30, 2023.
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the heading “Ratification of the Appointment of the Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior to April 30, 2023.
118
PART IV
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
(a)     1. Our Consolidated Financial Statements are included in Part II, Item 8:  
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 42) 77
Consolidated Balance Sheets – December 31, 2022 and 2021 79
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income — Years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 80
Consolidated Statements of Equity — Years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 82
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows — Years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 83
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 84
2. The following Financial Statement Schedules are included beginning on page 128
III – Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
IV – Mortgage Loans on Real Estate 
All other schedules have been omitted because they are inapplicable or not required or the information is included elsewhere in the Consolidated Financial
Statements or notes thereto.
3.     Exhibits:
The exhibits listed below are either filed with this Form 10-K or incorporated by reference in accordance with Rule 12b-32 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934.
119
2.1    Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 25, 2018, by and among the Company, Potomac Acquisition LLC, Quality Care Properties, Inc. and certain
subsidiaries of Quality Care Properties, Inc. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed April 26, 2018 (File No. 001-08923),
and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
2.2    Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated March 7, 2022, by and among Welltower Inc., WELL Merger Holdco Inc. and WELL Merger Holdco Sub Inc. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company's Form 8-K filed March 7, 2022 (File No. 001-08923) and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(a)  Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 20, 2000 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(b)     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form
10-K filed March 20, 2000 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(c)     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed June 13, 2003 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(d)     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.9 to the Company’s Form
10-Q filed August 9, 2007 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(e)   Certificate of Change of Location of Registered Office and of Registered Agent of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s
Form 10-Q filed August 6, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(f)     Certificate of Designation of 6.50% Series I Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to
the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 7, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(g)     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed May 10, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(h)     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed May 6, 2014 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(i)      Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed September 30, 2015 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(j)    Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Welltower Inc. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Form 8-K12B filed April 1, 2022 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.1(k)    Limited Liability Company Agreement of Welltower OP LLC, dated as of May 24, 2022 (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.2 to the Company's Form 8-K
filed May 25, 2022 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.2(a)     Seventh Amended and Restated By-laws of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed May 6, 2019 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.2(b)    Amended and Restated Bylaws of Welltower Inc. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.2 to the Form 8-K12B filed on April 1, 2022 (File No. 001-08923)
and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
3.3    Certificate of Merger (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.3 to the Form 8-K12B filed April 1, 2022 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).
4.1(a)    Indenture, dated as of March 15, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
4.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 15, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
120
4.1(b)     Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of March 15, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 15, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(c)    Amendment No. 1 to Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of June 18, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed June 18, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(d)     Supplemental Indenture No. 5, dated as of March 14, 2011, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 14, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(e)    Supplemental Indenture No. 7, dated as of December 6, 2012, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed December 11, 2012 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(f)     Supplemental Indenture No. 8, dated as of October 7, 2013, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed October 9, 2013 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).  
4.1(g)     Supplemental Indenture No. 9, dated as of November 20, 2013, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 20, 2013 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(h)   Supplemental Indenture No. 10, dated as of November 25, 2014, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 25, 2014 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(i)     Supplemental Indenture No. 11, dated as of May 26, 2015, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed May 27, 2015 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(j)    Amendment No. 1 to Supplemental Indenture No. 11, dated as of October 19, 2015, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company,
N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed October 20, 2015 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).
4.1(k)     Supplemental Indenture No. 12, dated as of March 1, 2016, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 3, 2016 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(l)    Supplemental Indenture No. 13, dated as of April 10, 2018, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed April 10, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(m)    Supplemental Indenture No. 14, dated as of August 16, 2018, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed August 16, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(n)    Supplemental Indenture No. 15, dated as of February 15, 2019 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Form 8-K filed February 15, 2019 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(o)     Supplemental Indenture No. 16, dated as of August 19, 2019, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's Form 8-K filed August 19, 2019 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(p)     Supplemental Indenture No. 17, dated as of December 16, 2019, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with
the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Form 8-K filed December 16, 2019 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(q)    Supplemental Indenture No. 18, dated as of June 30, 2020, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Form 8-K filed June 30, 2020 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
121
4.1(r)    Supplemental Indenture No. 19, dated as of March 25, 2021, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Form 8-K filed on March 25, 2021 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(s)    Supplemental Indenture No. 20, dated as of June 28, 2021, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Form 8-K filed on June 28, 2021 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(t)    Supplemental Indenture No. 21, dated as of November 19, 2021, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Form 8-K filed on November 19, 2021 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(u)    Supplemental Indenture No. 22, dated as of March 31, 2022, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Form 8-K filed on March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.1(v)    Supplemental Indenture No. 23, dated as of April 1, 2022, among Welltower OP LLC and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (filed
with the SEC as Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-K12B filed April 1, 2022 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated by reference thereto).
4.2    Form of Indenture for Senior Subordinated Debt Securities, among Welltower Inc., as issuer, Welltower OP LLC, as guarantor, and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Form S-3 filed April 1, 2022 (File No. 333-264093), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.3    Form of Indenture for Junior Subordinated Debt Securities, among Welltower Inc., as issuer, Welltower OP LLC, as guarantor, and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's Form S-3 filed April 1, 2022 (File No. 333-264093), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.4    Form of Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, among Welltower OP LLC, as issuer, Welltower Inc., as guarantor and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A., as trustee (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.5 to the Company's Form S-3 filed April 1, 2022 (File No. 333-264093), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).
4.5    Form of Indenture for Senior Subordinated Debt Securities, among Welltower OP LLC, as issuer, Welltower Inc., as guarantor and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.6 to the Company's Form S-3 filed April 1, 2022 (File No. 333-264093), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.6    Form of Indenture for Junior Subordinated Debt Securities, among Welltower OP LLC, as issuer, Welltower Inc., as guarantor and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.7 to the Company's Form S-3 filed April 1, 2022 (File No. 333-264093), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.7(a)      Indenture, dated as of November 25, 2015, by and among HCN Canadian Holdings-1 LP, the Company and BNY Trust Company of Canada (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.5(a) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 18, 2016 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
4.7(b)    Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 20, 2019, by and among HCN Canadian Holdings-1 LP, the Company and BNY Trust Company of
Canada (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.4(c) to the Company's Form 10-K filed February 14, 2020 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).
4.8    Description of Securities of the Registrant (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.5 to the Company's Form 10-K filed February 14, 2020 (File No. 001-08923),
and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
10.1(a)    Credit Agreement dated as of July 19, 2018 by and among the Company; the lenders listed therein; KeyBank National Association, as administrative agent,
L/C issuer and a swingline lender; Bank of America, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as co-syndication agents; Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as
documentation agent; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc., as U.S. joint lead arrangers; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc.
and RBC Capital Markets, as Canadian joint lead arrangers; and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as joint
book runners (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed July 24, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).
122
10.1(b)    First Amendment, dated April 26, 2019, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of July 19, 2018, by and among the Company; the lenders listed therein; KeyBank
National Association, as administrative agent, L/C issuer and a swingline lender; Bank of America, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as co-syndication
agents; Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as documentation agent; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., KeyBanc
Capital Markets Inc. and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as U.S. joint lead arrangers; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A., KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and RBC Capital Markets, as Canadian joint lead arrangers; and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as joint book runners (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed April 30,
2019 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
10.1(c)    Credit Agreement, dated as of June 4, 2021, by and among the Company; the lenders listed therein; KeyBank National Association, as administrative agent and
L/C issuer; BofA Securities, Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as joint book runners; BofA Securities, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., KeyBanc Capital
Markets Inc. and Wells Fargo Securities LLC, as U.S. joint lead arrangers; BofA Securities, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc.
and RBC Capital Markets, as Canadian joint lead arrangers; Bank of America, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as co-syndication agents; Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A., MUFG Bank, Ltd., Barclays Bank PLC, Citibank, N.A., Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman
Sachs Bank USA, Mizuho Bank, Ltd., Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A., PNC Bank, National Association and Royal Bank of Canada, as co-documentation agents;
BNP Paribas, Capital One, National Association, Citizens Bank, N.A., Fifth Third Bank, National Association, The Huntington National Bank, Regions Bank,
The Bank of Nova Scotia, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, TD Bank, NA, Truist Bank and Bank of Montreal, as co-senior managing agents and Credit
Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, as sustainability structuring agent. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s 8-K filed June 8,
2021 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
10.1(d)    Consent and Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement, dated April 1, 2022, by and among Welltower Inc., Welltower OP Inc., the lenders and other financial
institutions listed therein and KeyBank National Association, as administrative agent (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K12B filed April 1,
2022 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).
10.1(e)     Amendment No. 2 to Credit Agreement, dated June 15, 2022, by and among Welltower Inc., Welltower OP LLC, the lenders and other financial institutions
listed therein and KeyBank National Association, as administrative agent (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 8-K filed June 16,
2022 (File No. 001-08923) and incorporated by reference herein).
10.2     Form of Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each director, executive officer and officer of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed February 18, 2005 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.3    Summary of Director Compensation.*
10.4(a)     Welltower Inc. 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed May 10, 2016 (File No. 001-
08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.4(b)    Form of Restricted Stock Grant Notice for Executive Officers under the 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.14(b) to the
Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.4(c)    Form of Restricted Stock Grant Notice for Senior Vice Presidents under the 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.14(c) to
the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.4(d)    Form of Deferred Stock Unit Grant Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
10.14(d) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.4(e)    Form of 2021 Special Stock Option Award Agreement for Executive Officers under the 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan.*
10.5(a) Welltower Inc. 2018-2020 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.17(a) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
123
10.5(b) Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2018-2020 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.17(b) to the
Company’s Form 10-K filed February 28, 2018 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.6(a) Welltower Inc. 2019-2021 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.14(a) to the Company's Form 10-K filed February 25, 2019
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.6(b) Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2019-2021 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.14(b) to the
Company's Form 10-K filed February 25, 2019 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.7(a)    Welltower Inc. 2020-2022 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.14(a) to the Company's Form 10-K filed February 14, 2020
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.7(b)     Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2020-2022 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.14(b) to the
Company's Form 10-K filed February 14, 2020 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.8    Executive Employment Agreement, dated May 19, 2021, between Welltower Inc. and Shankh Mitra (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company's
Form 8-K filed May 19, 2021 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.9    Employment Offer Letter, dated May 20, 2021, between Welltower Inc. and John F. Burkart (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Form
10-Q filed July 30, 2021 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.10    Welltower Inc. Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2022 (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the
Company's Form 10-Q filed November 5, 2021 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.11    Second Amended and Restated Equity Distribution Agreement, dated as of April 4, 2022, among Welltower Inc., Welltower OP LLC, the sales agents and the
related forward purchasers (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 1.1 to the Company's Form 8-K filed April 4, 2022 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).
10.12    Form of Master Forward Sale Confirmation (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 1.2 to the Company's Form 8-K filed May 4, 2021 (File No. 001-08923) and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).
10.13(a)    Welltower Inc. 2021-2023 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.17(a) to the Company's Form 10-K filed February 16,
2022 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.13(b) Form of Long-Term Incentive Program Award Agreement under the 2021-2023 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.17(b)
to the Company's Form 10-K filed February 16, 2022 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.14(a)    Welltower Inc. 2022-2024 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.18(a) to the Company's Form 10-K filed February 16,
2022 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.14(b)    Form of Long-Term Incentive Program Award Agreement under the 2022-2024 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
10.18(b) to the Company's Form 10-K filed February 16, 2022 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.15(a)    2022 Outperformance Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.19(a) to the Company's Form 10-K filed February 16, 2022 (File No. 001-08923),
and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.15(b)    Form of Outperformance Program Award Agreement under the 2022 Outperformance Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.19(b) to the
Company's Form 10-K filed February 16, 2022 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.16(a)    Welltower Inc. 2022 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 8-K12B filed April 1, 2022 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.16(b) Form of Welltower Inc. 2022 Long-Term Incentive Plan Other Stock Unit Award Agreement.*
124
10.16(c)    Welltower Inc. 2022 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the Form 8-K12B filed April 1, 2022 (File No. 001-
08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*
10.17(a) Welltower OP LLC Profits Interests Plan.*
10.17(b) Form of Welltower OP LLC Profits Interests Plan Time-Based LTIP Unit Agreement (LTIP Exchange Equity Award).*
10.17(c) Form of Welltower OP LLC Profits Interests Plan Performance LTIP Unit Agreement (LTIP Exchange Equity Award).*
10.17(d) Form of Welltower OP LLC Profits Interests Plan Option Unit Agreement (Option Unit Replacement Equity Award).*
10.17(e) Form of Welltower OP LLC Profits Interests Plan Option Unit Agreement (Option Unit Replacement Equity Award for 2021 Special Stock Option Grant).*
10.17(f) Form of Welltower OP LLC Profits Interests Plan Outperformance LTIP Unit Agreement (Outperformance Exchange Equity Award).*
10.17(g) Form of Welltower OP LLC Profits Interests Plan Time-Based LTIP Unit Agreement (LTIP Exchange Equity Award) (Non-Employee Directors).*
10.17(h) Form of Welltower OP LLC Profits Interests Plan Time-Based LTIP Unit Agreement.*
10.17(i)     Form of Welltower OP LLC Profits Interests Plan Time-Based LTIP Unit Agreement (Non-Employee Directors).*
10.17(j) Form of Welltower OP LLC Profits Interests Plan Performance LTIP Unit Agreement.*
10.17(k) Form of Welltower OP LLC Profits Interests Plan Option Unit Agreement.*
10.17(l)    Form of Accrued Dividend Cash Award Agreement.*
10.17(m)Form of Welltower Inc. RSU Grant Agreement (Non-Employee Directors).*
10.17(n) Form of Welltower OP LLC Profits Interest Plan Vested Deferred LTIP Unit Agreement (Non-Employee Director).*
21           Subsidiaries of the Company.
23           Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accounting firm.
24           Powers of Attorney.
31.1        Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer.
31.2        Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer.
32.1        Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by Chief Executive Officer.
32.2        Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by Chief Financial Officer.
101.INS   Inline XBRL Instance Document. The instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline
XBRL document.
101.SCH   Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document
101.CAL   Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document
101.LAB   Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document
101.PRE    Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document
101.DEF    Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document
104    The cover page from the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, formatted in Inline XBRL (included in Exhibit 101)
                  
*  Management Contract or Compensatory Plan or Arrangement.
125
WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Item 16. Form 10-K Summary
None.
126
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
Date:  February 21, 2023
WELLTOWER INC. 
By: /s/  Shankh Mitra                                            
Shankh Mitra,
Chief Executive Officer and Director
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below on February 21, 2023 by the following persons on behalf of
the Registrant and in the capacities indicated. 
/s/  Kenneth J. Bacon ** /s/  Johnese M. Spisso **
Kenneth J. Bacon, Chairman and Director Johnese M. Spisso, Director
  
/s/  Karen B. DeSalvo ** /s/  Kathryn M. Sullivan **
Karen B. DeSalvo, Director Kathryn M. Sullivan, Director
  
/s/  Philip L. Hawkins ** /s/  Shankh Mitra **
Philip L. Hawkins, Director Shankh Mitra, Chief Executive Officer and Director
 (Principal Executive Officer)
/s/  Dennis G. Lopez ** /s/  Timothy G. McHugh **
Dennis G. Lopez, Director Timothy G. McHugh, Executive Vice President - Chief
            Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)
/s/  Ade J. Patton ** /s/  Joshua T. Fieweger**
Ade J. Patton, Director Joshua T. Fieweger, Chief Accounting Officer
 (Principal Accounting Officer)
/s/  Diana W. Reid **
Diana W. Reid, Director
/s/  Sergio D. Rivera ** **By:     /s/  Shankh Mitra          
Sergio D. Rivera, Director                           Shankh Mitra, Attorney-in-Fact
127
Welltower Inc.  
Schedule III  
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  
December 31, 2022  
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:           
Adderbury , UK $ — $ 2,030  $ 12,084  $ — $ 2,030  $ 12,084  $ 1,996  2015 2017 Banbury Road
Adrian, MI — 1,171  4,785  294 1,171  5,079  316 2022 2015 2625 N Adrian Hwy
Albertville, AL — 170 6,203  2,609  176 8,806  2,852  2010 1999 151 Woodham Dr .
Alexandria, VA — 8,294  50,537  — 8,294  50,537  6,549  2016 2018 5550 Cardinal Place
Alexandria, VA — 12,168  21,210  569 12,225  21,722  4,836  2021 1972 5100 Fillmore Avenue
Allegan, MI — 858 6,252  31 858 6,283  127 2022 2008 620 Ely St
Altrincham, UK — 4,244  25,187  252 4,145  25,538  8,343  2012 2009 295 Hale Road
Amarillo, TX — 719 11,591  396 756 11,950  1,416  2021 1985 4707 Bell Street
Amherst, NY — 1,218  11,417  — 1,218  11,417  2,051  2019 2013 1880 Sweet Home Road
Amherstview , ON — 473 4,446  542 497 4,964  1,429  2015 1974 4567 Bath Road
Anderson, SC — 710 6,290  2,329  767 8,562  5,010  2003 1986 311 Simpson Rd.
Anjou, QC 14,681  14,451  60,572  11,078  14,451  71,650  3,064  2022 2005 6923 Bd des Galeries d'Anjou
Ankeny , IA — 1,129  10,270  382 1,164  10,617  2,136  2016 2012 1275 SW  State Street
Ankeny , IA — 2,518  13,350  1,267  2,518  14,617  562 2022 2018 1225 SW  28th St
Apple Valley , CA — 480 16,639  5,877  486 22,510  7,029  2010 1999 11825 Apple Valley Rd.
Arlington, TX — 1,660  37,395  6,839  1,660  44,234  15,158  2012 2000 1250 West Pioneer Parkway
Arlington, TX — 894 13,003  177 908 13,166  1,308  2021 1996 2315 Little Road
Arlington, VA — 8,385  31,198  17,01 1 8,393  48,201  20,787  2017 1992 900 N Taylor Street
Arlington, VA — — — 6,468  77 6,391  1,475  2018 1992 900 N Taylor Street
Arnprior , ON — 788 6,283  736 813 6,994  2,252  2013 1991 15 Arthur Street
Atlanta, GA — 2,058  14,914  6,104  2,080  20,996  13,910  1997 1999 1460 S Johnson Ferry Rd.
Atlanta, GA — 2,100  20,603  3,055  2,206  23,552  6,927  2014 2000 1000 Lenox Park Blvd NE
Auburn, NY 9,790  1,176  14,371  722 1,176  15,093  533 2022 2014 138 Standart Ave
Austin, TX — 880 9,520  4,875  885 14,390  7,583  1999 1998 12429 Scofield Farms Dr .
Austin, TX — 1,560  21,413  1,373  1,574  22,772  5,610  2014 2013 11330 Farrah Lane
Austin, TX — 4,200  74,850  2,614  4,200  77,464  16,916  2015 2014 4310 Bee Caves Road
Austin, TX — 4,832  20,631  930 4,832  21,561  2,626  2021 1989 11279 Taylor Draper Ln
Bagshot, UK — 4,960  29,881  4,020  4,855  34,006  12,111 2012 2009 14 - 16 London Road
Bakersfield, CA — — — 21,864  2,822  19,042  776 2021 2015 4301 Buena Vista Rd
Bakersfield, CA — 1,127  15,126  389 1,133  15,509  1,537  2021 1988 3201 Columbus
Ballston Spa, NY — 5,540  17,901  235 5,540  18,136  1,374  2020 2019 2000 Carlton Hollow Way
Banstead, UK — 6,695  55,113 6,471  6,528  61,751  21,397  2012 2005 Croydon Lane
Bartlesville, OK — 2,339  12,001  67 2,339  12,068  1,585  2021 2000 2633 Mission Drive SE
Basingstoke, UK — 3,420  18,853  47 3,348  18,972  4,735  2014 2012 Grove Road
Basking Ridge, NJ — 2,356  37,710  2,751  2,395  40,422  12,235  2013 2002 404 King Geor ge Road
Bassett, UK — 4,874  32,304  6,135  4,771  38,542  15,185  2013 2006 111 Bur gess Road
Bath, UK — 2,549  11,615  — 2,549  11,615  1,921  2015 2017 Clarks Way, Rush Hill
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:           
Baton Rouge, LA 12,930  790 29,436  1,890  939 31,177  9,532  2013 2009 9351 Siegen Lane
Baton Rouge, LA — 1,605  6,717  440 1,607  7,155  737 2021 1989 8680 Jef ferson Highway
Bay City , MI — 1,225  6,424  481 1,225  6,905  369 2022 2013 3932 Monitor Rd
Beaconsfield, UK — 5,448  50,926  — 5,448  50,926  15,296  2013 2009 30-34 Station Road
Beaconsfield, QC — 1,149  17,484  330 1,235  17,728  5,948  2013 2008 505 Elm Avenue
Beaver , PA 8,480  1,189  13,240  — 1,189  13,240  51 2020 2022 1195 Western Ave
Beavercreek, OH — 1,007  11,239  — 1,007  11,239  1,178  2019 2020 2475 Lillian Lane
Beckenham, UK — 1,156  27,194  24,530  19,585  33,295  1,243  2019 2021 2 Roman Way
Bedford, NH 18,678  3,565  29,929  1,660  3,565  31,589  947 2022 2017 43 Technology Dr
Bee Cave, TX — 1,820  21,084  1,004  1,838  22,070  4,532  2016 2014 14058 A Bee Cave Parkway
Bellevue, WA — 2,800  19,004  3,537  2,816  22,525  8,083  2013 1998 15928 NE 8th Street
Bellevue, WA — 6,307  9,632  199 6,310  9,828  971 2021 1990 13350 SE 26th Street
Bellevue, WA — 20,170  43,498  — 20,170  43,498  5,397  2021 1986 919 109th Avenue North East
Bellevue, WA — — — 26,161  26,161  — — 2021 1900 919 109th Avenue North East
Bellingham, WA — 1,500  19,861  3,869  1,507  23,723  8,112 2010 1996 4415 Columbine Dr .
Bellingham, WA — 1,290  16,292  1,728  1,290  18,020  2,438  2020 1999 848 W Orchard Dr
Belmont, CA — — 35,300  2,691  188 37,803  12,206  2013 2002 1010 Alameda de Las Pulgas
Berea, OH 8,797  1,658  12,791  — 1,658  12,791  213 2020 2022 45 Sheldon Road
Bethel Park, P A — 1,658  12,973  — 1,658  12,973  1,814  2019 2019 631 McMurray Road
Bethel Park, P A — 3,476  12,787  97 3,477  12,883  1,434  2021 1998 2960 Bethel Church Road
Bethesda, MD — — 45,309  2,280  3 47,586  14,386  2013 2009 8300 Burdett Road
Bethesda, MD — — — 69,820  3,520  66,300  6,673  2016 2018 4925 Battery Lane
Bethesda, MD — — — 1,148  — 1,148  900 2013 2009 8300 Burdett Road
Bethesda, MD — — — 1,507  — 1,507  575 2013 2009 8300 Burdett Road
Birmingham, UK — — — 14,580  1,449  13,131  2,250  2015 2016 47 Bristol Road South
Birmingham, UK — — — 17,793  65 17,728  4,491  2013 2006 5 Church Road, Edgbaston
Blainville, QC — 2,077  8,902  1,086  2,205  9,860  3,335  2013 2008 50 des Chateaux Boulevard
Bloomfield Hills, MI — 2,000  35,662  1,821  2,204  37,279  11,325  2013 2009 6790 Telegraph Road
Boca Raton, FL 32,270  6,565  111,247  33,797  6,991  144,618  36,987  2018 1994 6343 Via De Sonrise Del Sur
Boise, ID — 1,391  16,067  6,117 2,224  21,351  4,337  2019 1999 10250 W Smoke Ranch Drive
Boise, ID — 1,625  10,468  104 1,626  10,571  1,108  2021 1984 7250 Poplar Street
Borehamwood, UK — — — 47,600  5,254  42,346  13,539  2012 2003 Edgwarebury Lane
Bothell, WA — 1,350  13,439  7,370  1,350  20,809  6,567  2015 1988 10605 NE 185th Street
Boulder , CO — 2,994  27,458  3,205  3,171  30,486  10,897  2013 2003 3955 28th Street
Bournemouth, UK — — — 49,814  5,411 44,403  13,776  2013 2008 42 Belle Vue Road
Bradenton, FL — 480 9,953  286 480 10,239  2,797  2012 2000 2800 60th Avenue West
Bradenton, FL — 4,664  11,202  219 4,685  11,400  1,425  2021 1987 1055 301 Blvd E
Braintree, MA — — 41,290  2,108  205 43,193  13,334  2013 2007 618 Granite Street
Brampton, ON 41,696  10,196  59,989  1,704  10,281  61,608  16,258  2015 2009 100 Ken Whillans Drive
Brandon, MS — 1,220  10,241  3,746  1,220  13,987  4,034  2010 1999 140 Castlewoods Blvd
Brea, CA — 6,302  80,468  1,871  6,302  82,339  1,801  2022 2013 460 South La Floresta Drive
Bremerton, WA — 2,417  22,627  2,623  2,417  25,250  3,385  2020 1999 966 Oyster Bay Ct(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:           
Bremerton, WA — 2,145  7,288  997 2,145  8,285  1,587  2021 1985 2707 Clare Ave
Brentwood, CA — 4,602  32,594  2,589  4,602  35,183  1,461  2022 2007 150 Cortona Way
Brentwood, UK — 8,537  45,869  100 8,357  46,149  7,866  2016 2013 London Road
Brick, NJ — 1,170  17,372  2,275  1,308  19,509  6,628  2010 1998 515 Jack Martin Blvd
Brick, NJ — 690 17,125  6,438  812 23,441  6,716  2010 1999 1594 Route 88
Bridgewater , NJ — 1,730  48,201  3,827  1,774  51,984  16,149  2010 1999 2005 Route 22 West
Broadview Heights, OH 15,149  1,567  20,541  2,023  1,567  22,564  428 2022 2016 9500 Broadview Rd
Brockport, NY — 1,500  23,496  3,757  1,642  27,111 7,103  2015 1999 90 West Avenue
Brockville, ON 3,762  484 7,445  785 502 8,212  2,086  2015 1996 1026 Bridlewood Drive
Brookfield, WI — 1,300  12,830  926 1,300  13,756  3,318  2012 2013 1105 Davidson Road
Broomfield, CO — 4,140  44,547  15,828  10,140  54,375  25,392  2013 2009 400 Summit Blvd
Broomfield, CO — — — 29,081  2,566  26,515  2,103  2016 2018 12600 Lowell Boulevard
Brossard, QC 8,564  5,499  31,854  1,943  5,479  33,817  10,250  2015 1989 2455 Boulevard Rome
Brunswick, OH — 1,460  17,974  863 1,460  18,837  562 2022 2018 3430 Brunswick Lake Pkwy
Buckingham, UK — — — 17,347  2,917  14,430  3,524  2014 1883 Church Street
Buffalo, NY 7,015  1,117 11,022  579 1,117 11,601  429 2022 2011 100 Weiss Ave.
Buffalo Grove, IL — 2,850  49,129  4,964  2,850  54,093  17,106  2012 2003 500 McHenry Road
Burbank, CA — 4,940  43,466  6,244  4,940  49,710  16,131  2012 2002 455 E. Angeleno Avenue
Burbank, CA 17,646  3,610  50,817  4,823  3,610  55,640  11,465  2016 1985 2721 Willow Street
Burke, VA — — — 52,813  2,616  50,197  5,136  2016 2018 9617 Burke Lake Road
Burleson, TX — 3,150  10,437  779 3,150  11,216  2,636  2012 2014 621 Old Highway 1 187
Burlingame, CA — — 62,786  246 — 63,032  11,976  2016 2015 1818 Trousdale Avenue
Burlington, ON 15,473  1,309  19,31 1 1,629  1,351  20,898  6,422  2013 1990 500 Appleby Line
Burlington, MA — 2,443  34,354  1,872  2,578  36,091  11,615  2013 2005 24 Mall Road
Burlington, WA — 877 16,014  — 877 16,014  2,892  2019 1999 410 S Norris St
Burlington, WA — 768 8,737  — 768 8,737  1,696  2019 1996 112 / 210 North Skagit Street
Bushey , UK — 12,017  34,915  — 12,017  34,915  4,699  2015 2018 Elton House, Elton Way
Calgary , AB 14,423  2,252  37,415  2,207  2,329  39,545  12,517  2013 2003 20 Promenade Way SE
Calgary , AB 10,285  2,793  41,179  2,121  2,878  43,215  13,489  2013 1998 80 Edenwold Drive NW
Calgary , AB 8,244  3,122  38,971  2,529  3,253  41,369  12,750  2013 1998 150 Scotia Landing NW
Calgary , AB 18,339  3,431  28,983  2,548  3,525  31,437  9,199  2013 1989 9229 16th Street SW
Calgary , AB 21,193  2,385  36,776  3,598  2,447  40,312  8,837  2015 2006 2220-162nd Avenue SW
Camberley , UK — 9,444  37,558  — 9,444  37,558  5,768  2016 2017 Pembroke Broadway
Camberley , UK — 2,654  5,736  13,504  4,605  17,289  3,086  2014 2016 Fernhill Road
Camberley , UK — — — 3,284  652 2,632  436 2014 2017 Fernhill Road
Camillus, NY — 1,249  7,360  5,435  2,116 11,928  2,221  2019 2016 3877 Milton Avenue
Canton, MI — 968 8,523  336 968 8,859  352 2022 2017 445 N Lotz Rd
Cape Coral, FL — 760 18,868  562 760 19,430  5,366  2012 2009 831 Santa Barbara Boulevard
Cardif f, UK — 3,191  12,566  2,225  3,116 14,866  5,248  2013 2007 127 Cyncoed Road
Cardif f by the Sea, CA — 5,880  64,71 1 6,683  5,880  71,394  25,006  2011 2009 3535 Manchester Avenue
Carmel, IN — 2,766  53,419  580 2,787  53,978  3,264  2021 2017 689 Pro-Med Ln
Carmichael, CA 23,240  739 7,698  37,314  2,440  43,31 1 5,599  2019 2014 4717 Engle Road
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:           
Caro, MI — 614 4,366  271 614 4,637  281 2022 2009 1430 Cleaver Rd
Carol Stream, IL — 1,730  55,048  7,637  1,730  62,685  19,491  2012 2001 545 Belmont Lane
Carrollton, TX — 4,280  31,444  1,791  4,280  33,235  7,975  2013 2010 2105 North Josey Lane
Carrollton, GA — 2,537  9,159  671 2,537  9,830  1,639  2021 1996 150 Cottage Lane
Carson City , NV — 1,601  23,542  411 1,602  23,952  1,960  2021 1986 2120 E Long
Cary , NC — 740 45,240  1,334  742 46,572  13,174  2013 2009 1206 West Chatham Street
Cary , NC — 6,112 70,008  11,374  6,227  81,267  18,472  2018 1999 300 Kildaire Woods Drive
Cedar Falls, IA — 1,259  9,930  196 1,285  10,100  1,108  2021 1997 2603 Orchard Drive
Cedar Hill, TX — 1,971  24,590  40 1,971  24,630  1,589  2020 2020 1240 East Pleasant Run
Cedar Park, TX — 1,750  15,664  1,223  1,750  16,887  3,161  2016 2015 800 C-Bar Ranch Trail
Cerritos, CA — — 27,494  7,682  — 35,176  10,995  2016 2002 11000 New Falcon Way
Charleston, IL — 552 810 42 552 852 240 2021 2001 300 Lincoln Highway Road
Charleston, SC — 2,912  19,817  70 2,913  19,886  1,582  2021 2005 1451 Tobias Gadson Blvd.
Charlotte, NC — 5,279  19,325  115 5,288  19,431  2,199  2021 1987 5512 Carmel Road
Charlottesville, VA — 4,651  91,468  24,249  5,022  115,346  25,213  2018 1991 2610 Barracks Road
Chatham, ON — 1,098  12,462  3,344  1,199  15,705  4,117 2015 1965 25 Keil Drive North
Chattanooga, TN — 3,373  15,791  119 3,373  15,910  1,958  2021 1998 7511 Shallowford Road
Chelmsford, MA — 1,040  10,951  6,449  1,131  17,309  6,611 2003 1997 4 Technology Dr .
Chelmsford, MA — 2,364  33,143  1,779  2,364  34,922  2,666  2021 1995 20 Summer Street
Chertsey , UK — 9,566  25,886  41 9,058  26,435  4,128  2015 2018 Bittams Lane
Chesapeake, VA — 2,214  22,566  806 2,237  23,349  2,461  2021 2004 933 Cedar Road
Chesterfield, MO — 1,857  48,366  2,304  1,917  50,610  14,852  2013 2001 1880 Clarkson Road
Chesterton, IN — 2,980  37,614  1,337  2,980  38,951  3,877  2020 2019 700 Dickinson Rd
Chico, CA — 1,780  14,754  269 1,942  14,861  2,242  2021 1984 2801 Cohasset
Chorleywood, UK — 5,636  43,191  2,056  5,500  45,383  16,117 2013 2007 High View, Rickmansworth Road
Chula Vista, CA — 4,217  31,866  6 4,217  31,872  3,860  2021 2018 1290 Santa Rosa Dr
Chula Vista, CA — — — 25,694  2,186  23,508  7,411 2013 2003 3302 Bonita Road
Church Crookham, UK — 2,591  14,215  328 2,536  14,598  4,175  2014 2014 2 Bourley Road
Cincinnati, OH — 1,779  11,386  — 1,779  11,386  1,465  2019 2019 732 Clough Pike Road
Cincinnati, OH — 1,606  3,994  340 1,606  4,334  1,414  2021 1998 4650 East Galbraith Road
Cincinnati, OH — 3,345  52,867  195 3,346  53,061  5,282  2021 1986 8135 Beechmont Ave
Citrus Heights, CA — 2,300  31,876  3,466  2,300  35,342  12,971  2010 1997 7418 Stock Ranch Rd.
Clackamas, OR — 1,240  3,920  535 1,240  4,455  714 2021 1999 14370 SE Oregon Trail Dr
Claremont, CA — 2,430  9,928  2,521  2,553  12,326  4,444  2013 2001 2053 North Towne Avenue
Clay, NY — 1,414  11,477  — 1,414  11,477  2,096  2019 2014 8547 Mor gan Road
Clearwater , FL — 1,727  4,903  122 1,730  5,022  601 2021 1985 1100 Ponce de Leon Blvd.
Cleburne, TX — 520 5,369  860 520 6,229  2,323  2006 2007 402 S Colonial Drive
Cohasset, MA — 2,485  26,147  2,460  2,566  28,526  9,424  2013 1998 125 King Street (Rt 3A)
Colleyville, TX — 1,050  17,082  89 1,050  17,171  2,782  2016 2013 8100 Precinct Line Road
Collierville, TN — — — 42,204  2,306  39,898  1,129  2019 2020 691 S. Byhalia Rd.
Colorado Springs, CO — 800 14,756  2,160  1,034  16,682  5,648  2013 2001 2105 University Park Boulevard
Colorado Springs, CO — 1,142  15,510  267 1,164  15,755  1,678  2021 1985 5820 Flintridge Drive
Colts Neck, NJ — 780 14,733  3,759  1,463  17,809  6,164  2010 2002 3 Meridian Circle(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:           
Columbus, IN — 1,593  12,186  246 1,594  12,431  1,467  2021 2000 3660 Central Avenue
Columbus, OH — 916 7,112 265 916 7,377  221 2022 2017 2920 Snouf fer Rd
Columbus, OH 12,636  1,547  17,126  1,180  1,547  18,306  341 2022 2015 2870 Snouf fer Road
Columbus, IN — 610 3,190  364 610 3,554  1,175  2010 1998 2564 Foxpointe Dr .
Concord, NH 13,829  2,825  21,636  1,326  2,825  22,962  767 2022 2017 23 Triangle Park Dr
Conroe, TX — 980 7,771  1,499  980 9,270  2,948  2009 2010 903 Longmire Road
Coos Bay , OR — 864 7,971  969 864 8,940  1,449  2020 1996 192 Norman Ave.
Coos Bay , OR — 1,792  9,852  1,149  1,792  11,001  2,025  2020 2006 1855 Ocean Blvd SE
Coppell, TX — 1,550  8,386  721 1,550  9,107  2,437  2012 2013 1530 East Sandy Lake Road
Coquitlam, BC 7,184  3,047  24,567  2,375  3,157  26,832  9,226  2013 1990 1142 Duf ferin Street
Crystal Lake, IL — 875 12,461  2,321  971 14,686  5,324  2013 2001 751 E Terra Cotta Avenue
Crystal Lake, IL — 7,643  39,687  1,601  7,679  41,252  4,060  2021 1988 965 N. Brighton Circle W
Cuyahoga Falls, OH — 592 2,804  523 592 3,327  283 2022 2012 1691 Queens Gate Cir
Dallas, TX — 6,330  114,794  3,959  6,330  118,753  27,021  2015 2013 3535 N Hall Street
Dana Point, CA — 5,508  54,890  — 5,508  54,890  5,102  2021 1994 2541 1 Sea Bluf fs Drive
Danville, IN — 2,236  28,757  6,996  2,246  35,743  1,265  2021 2021 200 S Arbor Ln
Dardenne Prairie, MO — 1,309  11,507  328 1,309  11,835  879 2021 2010 1030 Barathaven Blvd.
Decatur , GA — 1,098  15,302  173 1,098  15,475  1,784  2021 1987 341 Winn Way
Decatur , GA — — — 31,425  1,951  29,474  9,780  2013 1998 920 Clairemont Avenue
Delaware, OH — 1,919  26,250  352 1,919  26,602  798 2022 2020 90 Burr Oak Drive
Denton, TX — 1,760  8,305  749 1,760  9,054  2,888  2010 2011 2125 Brinker Rd
Denton, TX — — — 6,254  2,034  4,220  41 2021 1900 2907 W University Dr
Denver , CO — 1,450  19,389  6,471  1,450  25,860  7,502  2012 1997 4901 South Monaco Street
Denver , CO — 2,910  35,838  9,257  2,910  45,095  14,831  2012 2007 8101 E Mississippi Avenue
Denver , CO — 1,533  9,221  109,858  5,402  115,210  18,542  2019 2014 1500 Little Raven St
Denver , CO — 1,989  21,556  1,245  1,989  22,801  2,491  2020 2017 2979 Uinta Street
Des Moines, IA — 1,196  9,629  393 1,196  10,022  1,063  2021 1990 4610 Douglas Avenue
Dix Hills, NY — 3,808  39,014  2,942  4,092  41,672  13,259  2013 2003 337 Deer Park Road
Dollard-Des-Ormeaux, QC — 1,957  14,431  334 2,059  14,663  5,545  2013 2008 4377 St. Jean Blvd
Dresher , PA 8,380  1,900  10,664  1,307  1,914  11,957  4,887  2013 2006 1650 Susquehanna Road
Dublin, OH — 1,169  25,345  373 1,169  25,718  5,226  2016 2015 4175 Stoneridge Lane
Dublin, OH — 3,688  23,035  1,093  3,688  24,128  1,225  2022 2017 4050 Hawthorne Ln
Durham, NC — 3,212  23,350  302 3,221  23,643  2,037  2021 1998 205 Emerald Pond Lane
East Amherst, NY — 1,665  11,696  — 1,665  11,696  2,254  2019 2015 8040 Roll Road
East Lansing, MI — 3,919  19,373  173 3,919  19,546  2,304  2021 2000 5968 Park Lake Road
East Meadow , NY — 69 45,991  2,427  127 48,360  15,186  2013 2002 1555 Glen Curtiss Boulevard
East Setauket, NY — 4,920  37,354  2,537  4,986  39,825  12,561  2013 2002 1 Sunrise Drive
Eastbourne, UK — 4,145  33,744  512 4,046  34,355  11,008  2013 2008 6 Upper Kings Drive
Edgbaston, UK — 2,720  13,969  204 2,663  14,230  2,429  2014 2015 Speedwell Road
Edgewater , NJ — 4,561  25,047  3,446  4,609  28,445  8,845  2013 2000 351 River Road
Edison, NJ — 1,892  32,314  4,041  2,008  36,239  13,296  2013 1996 1801 Oak Tree Road
Edmond, OK — 410 8,388  319 410 8,707  2,473  2012 2001 15401 North Pennsylvania Avenue
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:           
Edmonds, WA — 1,650  24,449  10,193  1,650  34,642  8,882  2015 1976 21500 72nd Avenue West
Edmonds, WA — 2,891  26,413  2,428  2,891  28,841  3,466  2020 2000 180 2nd Ave S
Edmonton, AB 6,506  1,589  29,819  2,556  1,681  32,283  10,351  2013 1999 103 Rabbit Hill Court NW
Edmonton, AB 8,594  2,063  37,293  3,486  2,128  40,714  14,349  2013 1968 10015 103rd Avenue NW
Effingham, IL — 606 3,699  268 616 3,957  556 2021 1997 1101 North Maple Street
Effingham, IL — 105 460 — 105 460 166 2021 1996 505 West Temple Avenue
El Dorado Hills, CA — — — 56,633  5,190  51,443  4,921  2017 2019 2020 Town Center West Way
Elkhorn, NE 11,872  1,846  21,426  1,075  1,846  22,501  696 2022 2014 3535 Piney Creek Dr
Encino, CA — 5,040  46,255  7,397  5,040  53,652  17,079  2012 2003 15451 Ventura Boulevard
Englishtown, NJ — 690 12,520  2,882  882 15,210  5,523  2010 1997 49 Lasatta Ave
Epsom, UK — 20,159  34,803  123 19,734  35,351  6,169  2016 2014 450-458 Reigate Road
Erie, P A — 1,502  9,216  — 1,502  9,216  1,909  2019 2013 4400 East Lake Road
Esher , UK — 5,783  48,361  3,329  5,640  51,833  16,712  2013 2006 42 Copsem Lane
Evans, GA — 3,211 20,503  89 3,218  20,585  2,519  2021 1999 100 Washington Commons Dr
Evansville, IN — 1,038  11,983  493 1,038  12,476  1,567  2021 1991 5050 Lincoln Avenue
Everett, WA — 638 8,708  1,066  638 9,774  1,363  2020 1998 524 75th St SE
Everett, WA — 1,912  16,647  415 1,913  17,061  1,774  2021 1989 3915 Colby Avenue N
Fairfield, NJ — 3,120  43,868  3,005  3,286  46,707  14,438  2013 1998 47 Greenbrook Road
Fairfield, IL — 561 3,995  317 561 4,312  506 2021 1997 315 Market Street
Fairfield, CA — 1,460  14,040  10,678  1,460  24,718  9,926  2002 1998 3350 Cherry Hills St.
Fairfield, OH — 1,465  12,957  — 1,465  12,957  1,801  2019 2018 520 Patterson Boulevard
Fareham, UK — 3,408  17,970  36 3,333  18,081  4,701  2014 2012 Redlands Lane
Florence, AL — 353 13,049  3,740  385 16,757  5,404  2010 1999 3275 County Road 47
Flossmoor , IL — 1,292  9,496  2,998  1,362  12,424  4,780  2013 2000 19715 Governors Highway
Flower Mound, TX — 1,800  8,414  1,047  1,800  9,461  2,627  2011 2012 4141 Long Prairie Road
Folsom, CA — 1,490  32,754  285 1,490  33,039  7,817  2015 2014 1574 Creekside Drive
Folsom, CA — 2,306  10,948  232 2,306  11,180  1,391  2021 2010 1801 E. Natoma St.
Fort Wayne, IN — 3,637  42,242  769 3,637  43,01 1 3,549  2020 2018 3715 Union Chapel Rd
Fort Worth, TX — 2,080  27,888  10,112 2,080  38,000  12,780  2012 2001 2151 Green Oaks Road
Fort Worth, TX — 4,179  40,328  18,261  7,150  55,618  8,766  2019 2017 3401 Amador Drive
Fort Worth, TX — 2,538  18,909  49 2,538  18,958  1,794  2020 2020 3401 Amador Drive
Fort Worth, TX — — — 25,972  2,781  23,191  1,964  2021 2015 8600 N Riverside Dr
Franklin, TN — 5,733  15,437  2,351  5,734  17,787  1,789  2021 1999 314 Cool Springs Blvd.
Fremont, CA — 3,400  25,300  7,027  3,456  32,271  14,022  2005 1987 2860 Country Dr .
Fresno, CA 22,570  896 10,591  25,463  2,459  34,491  4,868  2019 2014 5605 North Gates Avenue
Frome, UK — 2,720  14,813  380 2,663  15,250  3,794  2014 2012 Welshmill Lane
Fullerton, CA — 1,964  19,989  2,030  1,998  21,985  6,893  2013 2008 2226 North Euclid Street
Fullerton, CA — 1,801  6,195  857 1,801  7,052  722 2021 1987 1510 East Commonwealth Avenue
Fullerton, CA — 6,739  54,075  2,190  6,739  56,265  1,781  2022 2021 433 W Bastanchury Rd
Gahanna, OH — 772 11,214  2,282  847 13,421  4,575  2013 1998 775 East Johnstown Road
Gainesville, GA — 1,908  27,036  434 1,909  27,469  2,570  2021 2000 940 South Enota Drive
Gainesville, FL — — — 31,636  2,374  29,262  2,767  2016 2018 3605 NW  83rd Street
Garden Grove, CA — 2,107  4,549  1,171  2,107  5,720  879 2021 1999 11848 Valley View Street(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:           
Gardnerville, NV — 1,143  10,831  4,493  1,164  15,303  10,096  1998 1999 1565-A  Virginia Ranch Rd.
Gig Harbor , WA — 1,560  15,947  5,100  1,583  21,024  6,851  2010 1994 3213 45th St. Court NW
Gilbert, AZ 14,200  2,160  28,246  2,704  2,208  30,902  11,854  2013 2008 580 S. Gilbert Road
Glen Cove, NY — 4,594  35,236  2,767  4,718  37,879  13,612  2013 1998 39 Forest Avenue
Glendale, AZ — 3,114 24,668  52 3,115 24,719  1,276  2021 2018 8847 W. Glendale Ave
Glenview , IL — 2,090  69,288  6,267  2,090  75,555  24,429  2012 2001 2200 Golf Road
Golden Valley , MN 3,600  1,520  33,513  1,703  1,634  35,102  10,803  2013 2005 4950 Olson Memorial Highway
Granbury , TX — 2,040  30,670  873 2,040  31,543  9,825  2011 2009 100 Watermark Boulevard
Grand Forks, ND — 1,050  13,147  28 1,050  13,175  1,212  2021 2014 3783 S 16th St #1 12
Grand Prairie, TX — 1,880  23,827  45 1,884  23,868  1,023  2021 2021 3013 Doryn Drive
Grand Rapids, MI — 2,179  15,745  256 2,365  15,815  1,554  2021 2003 3121 Lake Michigan Dr NW
Grandville, MI — 1,533  7,219  371 1,533  7,590  362 2022 2018 3939 44th St SW
Grants Pass, OR — 561 8,874  177 561 9,051  749 2021 1985 1001 NE A Street
Grapevine, TX — 2,220  17,648  637 2,220  18,285  3,396  2013 2014 4545 Merlot Drive
Greeley , CO — 1,077  18,051  499 1,077  18,550  3,006  2017 2009 5300 West 29th Street
Greenville, SC — 893 22,795  702 894 23,496  2,116 2021 1989 1180 Haywood Road
Gresham, OR — 1,966  6,566  139 1,966  6,705  558 2021 1985 2895 SE Powell Valley Rd.
Grimsby , ON — 636 5,617  785 661 6,377  1,724  2015 1991 84 Main Street East
Grosse Pointe Woods, MI — 950 13,662  1,006  950 14,668  4,495  2013 2006 1850 Vernier Road
Grosse Pointe Woods, MI — 1,430  31,777  1,355  1,452  33,110 10,020  2013 2005 21260 Mack Avenue
Grove City , OH — 3,509  82,988  — 3,509  82,988  11,470  2018 2017 3717 Orders Road
Grove City , OH — 1,099  5,246  495 1,105  5,735  816 2021 1990 2320 Sonora Drive
Guildford, UK — — — 61,801  5,243  56,558  17,015  2013 2006 Astolat Way, Peasmarsh
Gurnee, IL — 890 27,931  2,805  945 30,681  9,490  2013 2002 500 North Hunt Club Road
Haddonfield, NJ — 520 16,363  852 527 17,208  3,932  2011 2015 132 Warwick Road
Hambur g, NY — 984 10,928  — 984 10,928  2,013  2019 2009 4600 Southwestern Blvd
Hamilton, OH — 1,128  10,940  1,116 1,184  12,000  1,879  2019 2019 1740 Eden Park Drive
Hampshire, UK — — — 30,676  4,084  26,592  8,359  2013 2006 22-26 Church Road
Happy Valley , OR — 721 10,410  — 721 10,410  1,746  2019 1998 8915 S.E. Monterey
Harahan, LA — 2,628  38,864  78 2,628  38,942  1,215  2021 2020 7904 Jef ferson Hwy
Harrisbur g, IL — 858 4,940  210 858 5,150  735 2021 2005 165 Ron Morse Drive
Hattiesbur g, MS — 450 13,469  185 450 13,654  4,228  2010 2009 217 Methodist Hospital Blvd
Haverford, P A — 1,880  33,993  3,519  1,907  37,485  11,602  2010 2000 731 Old Buck Lane
Helena, MT — 1,850  19,045  93 1,851  19,137  2,692  2021 1998 2801 Colonial Drive
Hemet, CA — 1,877  9,488  320 1,878  9,807  1,027  2021 1988 800 W Oakland Ave
Henderson, NV — 1,190  11,600  1,393  1,298  12,885  5,277  2013 2008 1555 West Horizon Ridge Parkway
Hermitage, P A — 1,084  15,449  50 1,084  15,499  1,600  2021 2001 260 S. Buhl Farm Dr .
Hickory , NC — 1,600  28,419  122 1,600  28,541  2,690  2021 2002 915 29th Avenue NE
High Point, NC — 1,355  21,735  596 1,356  22,330  2,394  2021 2002 1573 Skeet Club Rd.
High Wycombe, UK — 3,378  13,343  — 3,378  13,343  2,156  2015 2017 The Row Lane End
Highland Park, IL — 2,820  15,832  1,435  2,820  17,267  4,703  2011 2012 1651 Richfield Avenue
Highland Park, IL — 2,250  25,313  1,991  2,271  27,283  9,345  2013 2005 1601 Green Bay Road
Hindhead, UK — 17,852  48,645  46 17,475  49,068  8,341  2016 2012 Portsmouth Road
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:           
Hingham, MA — 1,440  32,292  615 1,444  32,903  7,922  2015 2012 1 Sgt. William B Terry Drive
Holbrook, NY — 3,957  35,337  2,994  4,317  37,971  11,991  2013 2001 320 Patchogue Holbrook Road
Honolulu, HI — 22,918  56,046  802 22,930  56,836  7,569  2021 1998 428 Kawaihae St
Hoover , AL — 2,165  18,043  121 2,166  18,163  1,957  2021 2004 3517 Lorna Road
Horley , UK — 2,332  12,144  550 2,283  12,743  3,744  2014 2014 Court Lodge Road
Houston, TX — 960 16,071  — 960 16,071  10,261  2011 1995 10225 Cypresswood Dr
Houston, TX — 3,830  55,674  10,350  3,830  66,024  22,748  2012 1998 2929 West Holcombe Boulevard
Houston, TX — — — 41,899  1,040  40,859  12,062  2012 1999 505 Bering Drive
Houston, TX — — — 19,671  1,750  17,921  3,578  2016 2014 10120 Louetta Road
Howell, NJ — 1,066  21,577  2,085  1,154  23,574  7,614  2010 2007 100 Meridian Place
Hudson, OH — 1,586  11,314  167 1,586  11,481  257 2022 2019 125 Omni Lake Pkwy
Hudson, OH — 1,754  34,395  448 1,754  34,843  700 2022 2019 150 Omni Lake Pkwy
Huntington Beach, CA — 3,808  31,172  3,163  3,931  34,212  11,961  2013 2004 7401 Yorktown Avenue
Hutchinson, KS — 600 10,590  5,501  600 16,091  5,555  2004 1997 2416 Brentwood
Independence, MO — 1,572  14,454  — 1,572  14,454  2,032  2019 2019 19301 East Eastland Ctr Ct
Independence, MO — 3,215  24,471  478 3,250  24,914  2,373  2021 1990 2100 Swope Drive
Independence, MO 10,558  2,017  15,796  884 2,017  16,680  547 2022 2014 19301 E 50th Terrace Ct S
Indianola, IA — 2,211 11,501  533 2,211 12,034  387 2022 2018 610 E Scenic Valley Ave
Iowa City , IA — 891 6,011 136 891 6,147  632 2021 1991 2423 Walden Road
Jackson, TN — 1,370  12,490  310 1,387  12,783  1,291  2021 1996 25 Max Lane Drive
Jacksonville, FL — 750 25,231  268 750 25,499  4,303  2013 2014 5939 Roosevelt Boulevard
Jacksonville, FL — — 26,381  2,086  1,691  26,776  4,505  2013 2014 4000 San Pablo Parkway
Jacksonville, FL — 1,205  11,991  23,039  6,550  29,685  4,028  2019 2019 10520 Validus Drive
Jeannette, P A — 1,642  22,377  919 1,642  23,296  717 2022 2018 4000 Village Dr
Johns Creek, GA — 1,580  23,285  1,651  1,588  24,928  7,884  2013 2009 11405 Medlock Bridge Road
Johnson City , NY — 1,440  11,675  1,184  1,481  12,818  2,379  2019 2013 1035 Anna Maria Drive
Kalamazoo, MI — 7,511 45,942  48 6,291  47,210  5,344  2021 1989 1700 Bronson Way
Kalamazoo, MI — — — 1,274  1,274  — — 2021 1900 1700 Bronson Way
Kanata, ON — 1,689  28,670  816 1,676  29,499  9,527  2012 2005 70 Stonehaven Drive
Kansas City , MO 11,239  1,938  11,694  854 1,938  12,548  456 2022 2016 111 NW  94 St
Kelowna, BC 4,118 2,688  13,647  1,753  2,786  15,302  5,420  2013 1999 863 Leon Avenue
Kelowna, BC — 6,302  46,346  4,616  6,302  50,962  2,622  2022 2021 1360 K.L.O Road
Kelowna, BC — 5,443  42,606  3,801  5,443  46,407  2,803  2022 2000 580 Yates Road
Kelowna, BC — 6,171  51,949  4,494  6,171  56,443  2,662  2022 2005 1075 Barnes Ave
Kelowna, BC — 3,718  44,690  3,508  3,718  48,198  2,719  2022 2012 1277 Gordon Drive
Kelowna, BC — 3,069  11,524  622 3,069  12,146  864 2022 1988 3200 Lakeshore Road
Kennebunk, ME — 2,700  30,204  6,670  3,525  36,049  16,753  2013 2006 One Huntington Common Drive
Kenner , LA — 1,100  10,036  5,354  1,100  15,390  11,447  1998 2000 1600 Joe Yenni Blvd
Kenner , LA — 809 12,344  575 810 12,918  962 2021 1988 1101 Sunset Boulevard
Kennett Square, P A — 1,050  22,946  1,308  1,152  24,152  7,496  2010 2008 301 Victoria Gardens Dr .
Kingsport, TN — 2,123  33,130  61 2,123  33,191  1,121  2021 2019 915 Holston Hills Dr .
Kingston, ON 10,554  1,030  11,416  1,707  1,368  12,785  3,066  2015 1983 181 Ontario Street
Kingston upon Thames, UK — 32,366  46,899  — 32,366  46,899  7,935  2016 2014 Coombe Lane West(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:           
Kingwood, TX — 480 9,777  1,681  480 11,458  3,901  2011 1999 22955 Eastex Freeway
Kingwood, TX — 1,683  24,207  2,513  1,683  26,720  5,931  2017 2012 24025 Kingwood Place
Kirkland, WA — 1,880  4,315  2,287  1,880  6,602  2,562  2003 1996 6505 Lakeview Dr .
Kitchener , ON 8,502  1,341  13,939  4,800  1,411 18,669  4,858  2016 2003 1250 Weber Street E
Klamath Falls, OR — 1,335  10,174  2,102  1,335  12,276  2,553  2020 2000 615 Washburn Way
La Palma, CA — 2,950  16,591  1,337  2,996  17,882  5,866  2013 2003 5321 La Palma Avenue
La Vista, NE 9,220  1,199  14,840  830 1,199  15,670  540 2022 2012 7544 Gertrude St
Lackawanna, NY — 1,029  5,959  — 1,029  5,959  1,250  2019 2002 133 Orchard Place
Lafayette Hill, P A — 1,750  11,848  2,566  1,867  14,297  5,793  2013 1998 429 Ridge Pike
Laguna Hills, CA — 12,820  75,926  20,937  12,820  96,863  27,962  2016 1988 24903 Moulton Parkway
Laguna Woods, CA — 11,280  76,485  14,186  11,280  90,671  24,362  2016 1987 24441 Calle Sonora
Laguna Woods, CA — 9,150  57,842  13,345  9,150  71,187  19,566  2016 1986 24962 Calle Aragon
Lake Havasu City , AZ — 364 1,599  527 364 2,126  489 2020 2009 320 Lake Havasu Ave. N,
Lake Zurich, IL — 1,470  9,830  3,857  1,470  13,687  5,679  2011 2007 550 America Court
Lakeland, FL — 2,416  19,791  165 2,416  19,956  2,165  2021 1999 1325 Grasslands Boulevard
Lakeview , MI — 733 2,212  126 733 2,338  191 2022 2013 9494 Paden Rd
Lakewood, NY 10,040  1,031  17,410  776 1,031  18,186  565 2022 2016 2123 Southwestern Dr
Lakewood Ranch, FL — 650 6,714  2,051  650 8,765  2,373  2011 2012 8230 Nature's Way
Lakewood Ranch, FL — 1,000  22,388  493 1,000  22,881  6,231  2012 2005 8220 Natures Way
Lancaster , CA — 700 15,295  5,028  712 20,31 1 6,995  2010 1999 43051 15th St. West
Lancaster , OH — 289 2,077  620 289 2,697  267 2021 1996 800 Becks Knob Road
Lancaster , OH — 1,029  7,699  236 1,029  7,935  1,101  2021 1981 2750 West Fair Avenue
Lancaster , PA — 1,680  14,039  131 1,680  14,170  2,374  2015 2017 31 Millersville Road
Lancaster , NY — 1,283  12,202  — 1,283  12,202  2,393  2019 2011 18 Pavement Road
Las Vegas, NV — 5,908  36,955  4,577  5,908  41,532  7,940  2020 1999 1600 S Valley View Road
Las Vegas, NV — 1,274  13,748  803 1,298  14,527  1,789  2020 2001 3300 Winterhaven Street
Las Vegas, NV — 2,412  22,045  2,615  2,412  24,660  3,491  2020 1997 3210 S Sandhill Road
Laval, QC 19,01 1 2,105  32,161  4,586  2,129  36,723  7,379  2018 2005 269, boulevard Ste. Rose
Laval, QC 3,513  2,383  5,968  1,431  2,402  7,380  1,425  2018 1989 263, boulevard Ste. Rose
Lawrence, KS — 250 8,716  195 250 8,911 2,399  2012 1996 3220 Peterson Road
Lawrenceville, GA — 1,500  29,003  979 1,562  29,920  9,369  2013 2008 1375 Webb Gin House Road
Lawrenceville, GA — 3,513  24,173  2,504  3,514  26,676  1,896  2021 2007 2899 Five Forks Trickum Road
Leatherhead, UK — 4,430  17,865  — 4,430  17,865  2,793  2015 2017 Rectory Lane
Leawood, KS — 2,490  32,493  10,824  5,610  40,197  12,945  2012 1999 4400 West 115th Street
Lenexa, KS 9,700  826 26,251  1,837  927 27,987  9,460  2013 2006 15055 West 87th Street Parkway
Lexington, SC — 1,843  15,301  300 1,870  15,574  1,365  2021 2001 203 Old Chapin Rd.
Lincoln, NE — 884 10,637  99 895 10,725  1,088  2021 1990 1111 S 70th
Lincoln, NE — 390 13,807  602 390 14,409  4,660  2010 2000 7208 Van Dorn St.
Lincroft, NJ — 9 19,958  2,131  148 21,950  7,195  2013 2002 734 Newman Springs Road
Linwood, NJ — 800 21,984  2,521  873 24,432  7,921  2010 1997 432 Central Ave
Litchfield, CT — 1,240  17,908  12,418  1,362  30,204  8,222  2010 1998 19 Constitution Way
Lititz, P A — 1,200  13,836  116 1,200  13,952  2,339  2015 2016 80 West Millport Road
Little Neck, NY — 3,350  38,461  5,987  3,358  44,440  13,338  2010 2000 5515 Little Neck Pkwy .
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:           
Livingston, NJ — 8,000  44,424  2,210  8,103  46,531  8,297  2015 2017 369 E Mt Pleasant Avenue
Lombard, IL 17,010  2,130  59,943  2,205  2,218  62,060  19,109  2013 2009 2210 Fountain Square Dr
London, UK — 19,777  39,598  — 19,777  39,598  820 2019 2022 Wood Street
London, UK — — — 13,885  3,055  10,830  2,865  2014 2012 71 Hatch Lane
London, UK — 23,387  41,794  — 23,387  41,794  1,178  2019 2022 Ashley Ln, London
London, ON 9,601  1,969  16,985  2,243  2,018  19,179  4,954  2015 1953 1486 Richmond Street North
London, ON — 1,445  13,631  1,537  1,599  15,014  3,839  2015 1950 81 Grand Avenue
London, UK — — — 24,022  7,282  16,740  3,186  2015 2016 6 Victoria Drive
London, UK — — — 68,565  21,955  46,610  3,774  2017 2020 39-41 East Hill, Wandsworth
Londonderry , NH 15,304  2,872  24,521  1,279  2,872  25,800  834 2022 2016 2 Golen Dr
Long Grove, IL — — — 25,923  2,729  23,194  1,413  2021 2017 2300 Illinois Route 53
Longmont, CO — 1,756  11,825  412 1,903  12,090  1,509  2021 1986 2210 Main Street
Longueuil, QC 7,441  3,992  23,71 1 3,539  4,157  27,085  7,607  2015 1989 70 Rue Levis
Longview , TX — 610 5,520  1,233  610 6,753  2,390  2006 2007 311 E Hawkins Pkwy
Lorain, OH — 1,409  13,052  — 1,409  13,052  1,626  2019 2018 5401 North Pointe Pkwy
Los Angeles, CA — — 114,438  10,062  — 124,500  42,068  2011 2009 10475 Wilshire Boulevard
Los Angeles, CA — 3,540  19,007  4,552  3,540  23,559  8,603  2012 2001 2051 N. Highland Avenue
Los Angeles, CA — — 28,050  6,540  91 34,499  8,134  2016 2006 4061 Grand View Boulevard
Louisville, KY — 2,420  20,816  3,810  2,420  24,626  8,588  2012 1999 4600 Bowling Boulevard
Louisville, KY 13,650  1,600  20,326  1,925  1,607  22,244  7,375  2013 2010 6700 Overlook Drive
Louisville, CO — 2,266  13,002  21,965  1,939  35,294  5,305  2019 2008 1336 E Hecla Drive
Louisville, CO — 1,042  8,396  18,982  1,156  27,264  2,801  2019 2019 1800 Plaza Drive
Louisville, CO — 1,432  6,684  54,218  2,584  59,750  11,898  2019 1999 1855 Plaza Drive
Louisville, CO — 1,323  7,547  11,733  1,391  19,212  2,534  2019 1999 282 McCaslin Blvd
Louisville, CO — 1,630  12,001  37,342  2,332  48,641  7,395  2019 2004 1331 E Hecla Drive
Louisville, KY — 1,588  9,254  460 1,614  9,688  912 2021 2000 620 Valley Coillege Drive
Louisville, KY — 2,274  10,768  2,440  2,274  13,208  1,032  2021 1998 8021 Christian Court
Ludington, MI — 747 6,406  104 747 6,510  146 2022 2002 502 N Sherman St
Lynnfield, MA — 3,165  45,200  2,936  3,786  47,515  15,282  2013 2006 55 Salem Street
Macungie, P A — — — 26,961  2,558  24,403  1,886  2017 2018 6043 Lower Macungie Road
Madison, TN — 2,093  8,306  208 2,093  8,514  861 2021 1986 200 East Webster
Mahwah, NJ — 1,605  27,249  1,428  1,632  28,650  5,639  2012 2015 15 Edison Road
Malvern, P A — 1,651  17,194  3,232  1,804  20,273  7,964  2013 1998 324 Lancaster Avenue
Manassas, VA — 2,946  16,609  168 2,976  16,747  1,759  2021 1994 9852 Fairmont Avenue
Mansfield, TX — 660 5,251  850 660 6,101  2,283  2006 2007 2281 Country Club Dr
Mansfield, TX — — — 21,353  2,807  18,546  1,504  2017 2019 2500 N. Walnut Creek
Manteca, CA — 1,300  12,125  5,706  1,312  17,819  7,831  2005 1986 430 N. Union Rd.
Maple Ridge, BC 8,632  2,875  11,922  2,485  3,139  14,143  2,686  2015 2009 12241 224th Street
Marieville, QC 5,206  1,278  12,113 895 1,333  12,953  3,259  2015 2002 425 rue Claude de Ramezay
Markham, ON 45,522  3,727  48,939  2,869  3,780  51,755  19,006  2013 1981 7700 Bayview Avenue
Marlboro, NJ — 2,222  14,888  2,532  2,268  17,374  5,694  2013 2002 3A South Main Street
Marlow , UK — 8,587  38,359  — 8,587  38,359  7,060  2013 2014 210 Little Marlow Road(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:           
Marysville, WA — 620 4,780  5,069  620 9,849  3,543  2003 1998 9802 48th Dr . N.E.
Massillon, OH — 1,117 16,687  889 1,117 17,576  553 2022 2016 2550 University Dr SE
Mattoon, IL — 791 1,905  168 803 2,061  409 2021 1999 2008 South 9th Street
Mattoon, IL — 505 2,258  275 505 2,533  385 2021 2001 1920 Brookstone Lane
McKinney , TX — 1,570  7,389  1,211 1,570  8,600  2,785  2009 2010 2701 Alma Rd.
McKinney , TX — 4,314  23,777  118 4,314  23,895  1,681  2021 2018 220 S Crutcher Crossing
Meadville, P A — 546 4,826  — 546 4,826  113 2022 1900 637 Pine St
Medicine Hat, AB 8,917  1,432  14,141  340 1,472  14,441  4,462  2015 1999 223 Park Meadows Drive SE
Medina, OH — 1,309  10,540  2,429  1,735  12,543  2,003  2019 2017 699 North Huntington St
Medina, OH — — — 42,524  2,111 40,413  792 2019 2020 122 Medina Rd
Melbourne, FL — 7,070  48,257  45,667  7,070  93,924  33,317  2007 2009 7300 Watersong Lane
Melville, NY — 4,280  73,283  9,420  4,332  82,651  25,492  2010 2001 70 Pinelawn Rd
Memphis, TN — 1,800  17,744  3,809  1,800  21,553  8,471  2012 1999 6605 Quail Hollow Road
Memphis, TN — 2,794  3,974  1,844  2,794  5,818  1,370  2021 1981 1645 Massey Road
Memphis, TN — 1,578  9,933  233 1,578  10,166  1,211 2021 2018 8722 Winchester Rd
Menomonee Falls, WI — 1,020  6,984  2,694  1,020  9,678  3,613  2006 2007 W128 N6900 Northfield Drive
Mentor , OH 11,225  957 13,206  936 957 14,142  340 2022 2019 9150 Lakeshore Blvd
Merced, CA — 2,806  13,292  242 2,814  13,526  1,255  2021 1997 3460 R Street
Mesa, AZ — 950 9,087  5,940  950 15,027  7,394  1999 2000 7231 E. Broadway
Metairie, LA 14,200  725 27,708  2,080  1,448  29,065  8,708  2013 2009 3732 West Esplanade Ave. S
Midland, MI — 1,084  5,623  332 1,084  5,955  328 2022 2015 4124 Waldo Ave
Mill Creek, WA — 10,150  60,274  4,994  10,179  65,239  25,494  2010 1998 14905 Bothell-Everett Hwy
Millbrook, NY — 12,448  12,390  788 12,708  12,918  3,250  2021 1985 79 Flint Road
Millersbur g, OH — 1,293  17,788  716 1,293  18,504  590 2022 2021 4245 Glen Dr
Milton, ON 17,326  4,542  25,321  5,995  4,680  31,178  5,978  2015 2012 611 Farmstead Drive
Milwaukie, OR — 2,391  20,262  289 2,391  20,551  2,117 2021 1996 4017 SE Vineyard Road
Minnetonka, MN — 920 29,344  1,594  964 30,894  9,364  2013 2006 18605 Old Excelsior Blvd.
Mission Viejo, CA 12,661  6,600  52,118 9,060  6,600  61,178  14,143  2016 1998 27783 Center Drive
Mississauga, ON 7,208  1,602  17,996  1,132  1,641  19,089  6,066  2013 1984 1130 Bough Beeches Boulevard
Mississauga, ON 23,386  3,649  35,137  2,773  3,818  37,741  11,877  2015 1988 1490 Rathburn Road East
Mississauga, ON 5,266  2,548  15,158  3,369  2,608  18,467  5,112 2015 1989 85 King Street East
Missoula, MT — 550 7,490  2,098  553 9,585  3,862  2005 1998 3620 American Way
Mobberley , UK — 5,146  26,665  126 5,037  26,900  9,760  2013 2007 Barclay Park, Hall Lane
Mobile, AL — 737 10,205  77 737 10,282  1,302  2021 1995 650 University Boulevard South
Molalla, OR — 1,210  3,903  719 1,210  4,622  928 2020 1998 835 E Main St
Monterey , CA — 6,440  29,101  3,717  6,443  32,815  10,523  2013 2009 1110 Cass St.
Montgomery , AL — 524 10,923  47 524 10,970  1,364  2021 1991 5801 EastdaleDrive
Montgomery , MD — 6,482  83,642  15,287  6,709  98,702  22,714  2018 1992 3701 International Dr
Montgomery Village, MD — 3,530  18,246  7,952  4,291  25,437  13,035  2013 1993 19310 Club House Road
Montreal-Nord, QC 9,462  4,407  23,719  8,325  4,463  31,988  7,068  2018 1988 6700, boulevard Gouin Est
Moorestown, NJ — 2,060  51,628  8,586  2,095  60,179  17,302  2010 2000 1205 N. Church St
Moose Jaw , SK 1,249  582 12,973  1,379  595 14,339  4,346  2013 2001 425 4th Avenue NW
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:           
Morton Grove, IL — 1,900  15,729  — 1,900  15,729  5,866  2010 2011 5520 N. Lincoln Ave.
Murphy , TX — 1,950  19,182  831 1,950  20,013  4,066  2015 2012 304 West FM 544
Nacogdoches, TX — 390 5,754  970 390 6,724  2,499  2006 2007 5902 North St
Naperville, IL — 1,550  12,237  2,722  1,550  14,959  5,064  2012 2013 1936 Brookdale Road
Naperville, IL — 1,540  28,204  1,894  1,593  30,045  9,739  2013 2002 535 West Ogden Avenue
Nashville, TN — 3,900  35,788  5,251  3,900  41,039  15,368  2012 1999 4206 Stammer Place
New Braunfels, TX — 1,200  19,800  10,568  2,729  28,839  8,054  2011 2009 2294 East Common Street
New Palestine, IN — 2,259  22,010  211 2,290  22,190  1,944  2021 2017 4400 Terrace Drive
Newber g, OR — 2,806  15,260  133 2,809  15,390  1,239  2021 2002 3801 Hayes St.
Newbury , UK — 2,850  12,796  161 2,790  13,017  2,257  2015 2016 370 London Road
Newmarket, UK — 4,071  11,902  890 3,985  12,878  3,674  2014 2011 Jeddah Way
Newtown Square, P A — 1,930  14,420  1,961  1,975  16,336  6,289  2013 2004 333 S. Newtown Street Rd.
Norman, OK — 1,480  33,330  957 1,480  34,287  9,102  2012 1985 800 Canadian Trails Drive
North Canton, OH — 1,726  24,588  1,926  1,726  26,514  829 2022 2017 850 Applegrove St
North Ridgeville, OH — 1,780  29,390  88 1,780  29,478  484 2022 2020 33770 Bagley Rd
North Tonawanda, NY — 1,249  7,360  639 1,263  7,985  1,548  2019 2005 705 Sandra Lane
North Tonawanda, NY — 1,426  17,572  653 1,426  18,225  605 2022 2009 3959 Forest Park Way
North Tustin, CA — 2,880  18,059  1,400  3,044  19,295  5,693  2013 2000 12291 Newport Avenue
North Wales, P A — 1,968  18,356  767 1,971  19,120  2,161  2021 2013 1419 Horsham Rd
Oak Harbor , WA — 739 7,698  787 739 8,485  1,533  2019 1998 171 SW  6th Ave
Oak Park, IL — 1,250  40,383  3,944  1,250  44,327  14,849  2012 2004 1035 Madison Street
Oakdale, P A — 1,917  11,954  931 1,930  12,872  2,438  2019 2017 7420 Steubenville Pike
Oakland, CA — 3,877  47,508  4,284  4,117 51,552  16,621  2013 1999 11889 Skyline Boulevard
Oakton, VA — 2,250  37,576  4,241  2,393  41,674  13,186  2013 1997 2863 Hunter Mill Road
Oakville, ON 4,860  1,252  7,382  769 1,331  8,072  2,716  2013 1982 289 and 299 Randall Street
Oakville, ON 7,427  2,134  29,963  2,977  2,203  32,871  10,487  2013 1994 25 Lakeshore Road West
Oakville, ON 3,901  1,271  13,754  1,560  1,311 15,274  4,460  2013 1988 345 Church Street
Ocala, FL — 1,340  10,564  377 1,340  10,941  3,947  2008 2009 2650 SE 18TH Avenue
Odessa, TX — 346 3,506  249 384 3,717  326 2021 1954 311 W 4th St
Ogden, UT — 360 6,700  1,864  360 8,564  3,706  2004 1998 1340 N. Washington Blv .
Oklahoma City , OK — 590 7,513  195 590 7,708  3,026  2007 2008 13200 S. May Ave
Oklahoma City , OK — 760 7,017  331 760 7,348  2,776  2007 2009 11320 N. Council Road
Oklahoma City , OK — — — 18,228  1,590  16,638  1,649  2014 2016 2800 SW  131st Street
Oklahoma City , OK — 5,946  29,540  343 5,962  29,867  34,358  2021 1984 1404 North West 122nd Street
Okotoks, AB 15,670  714 20,943  1,428  752 22,333  5,811 2015 2010 51 Riverside Gate
Olney , IL — 897 4,805  284 897 5,089  661 2021 1999 1110 North East Street
Olney , IL — 534 2,234  312 546 2,534  424 2021 1998 1301 North East Street
Omaha, NE 7,977  1,623  12,027  649 1,623  12,676  416 2022 2010 7205 N 73rd Plz Cir
Omaha, NE — 370 10,230  284 370 10,514  3,477  2010 1998 11909 Miracle Hills Dr .
Omaha, NE — 380 8,769  436 380 9,205  3,159  2010 1999 5728 South 108th St.
Orange, CA 34,560  8,021  64,689  2,803  8,021  67,492  8,850  2019 2018 630 The City Drive South
Orem, UT — 1,395  8,775  224 1,395  8,999  1,055  2021 1987 325 W Center
Ormond Beach, FL — 3,428  16,941  326 3,430  17,265  1,935  2021 1984 101 Clyde Morris Blvd(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)
Initial Cost to Company Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:
Ottawa, ON 11,998  1,341  15,425  3,637  1,403  19,000  3,822  2015 2001 110 Berrigan Drive
Ottawa, ON 7,629  2,809  27,299  3,583  2,855  30,836  10,742  2013 1998 43 Aylmer Avenue
Ottawa, ON 3,843  1,156  9,758  791 1,210  10,495  3,326  2013 1998 1351 Hunt Club Road
Ottawa, ON 5,015  746 7,800  1,101  799 8,848  2,733  2013 1999 140 Darlington Private
Ottawa, ON 7,818  1,176  12,764  961 1,240  13,661  2,710  2015 1987 10 Vaughan Street
Ottawa, ON 17,195  3,454  23,309  3,538  3,607  26,694  10,393  2015 1966 2370 Carling Avenue
Ottawa, ON 17,733  4,256  39,141  1,225  4,299  40,323  9,757  2015 2005 751 Peter Morand Crescent
Ottawa, ON 6,189  2,197  7,513  — 2,197  7,513  3,451  2015 1989 1 Eaton Street
Ottawa, ON 11,788  2,963  26,424  2,773  3,094  29,066  6,221  2015 2008 691 Valin Street
Ottawa, ON 8,893  1,561  18,170  2,816  1,707  20,840  4,534  2015 2006 22 Barnstone Drive
Ottawa, ON 11,461  3,403  31,090  3,014  3,558  33,949  6,748  2015 2009 990 Hunt Club Road
Ottawa, ON 14,435  3,411 28,335  5,298  3,560  33,484  8,206  2015 2009 2 Valley Stream Drive
Outremont, QC 15,294  6,746  45,981  11,180  6,848  57,059  13,161  2018 1976 1000, avenue Rockland
Overland Park, KS — 1,540  16,269  4,322  1,670  20,461  6,109  2012 1998 9201 Foster
Oviedo, FL — 3,350  31,147  223 3,351  31,369  3,366  2021 2002 7015 Red Bug Lake Rd.
Painesville, OH 8,193  1,407  12,500  — 1,407  12,500  95 2020 2022 1386 Elizabeth Blvd
Painted Post, NY 8,995  1,326  13,400  704 1,326  14,104  498 2022 2012 110 Creekside Dr
Palestine, TX — 180 4,320  2,951  180 7,271  2,437  2006 2005 1625 W. Spring St.
Palm Coast, FL — 870 10,957  355 870 11,312  3,965  2008 2010 50 Town Ct.
Palm Desert, CA — 6,193  83,052  1,855  6,193  84,907  1,916  2022 2010 39905 Via Scena
Palm Desert, CA — 13,628  58,446  1,510  13,683  59,901  6,453  2021 1985 41-505 Carlotta Drive
Palo Alto, CA 25,050  — 39,639  3,558  43 43,154  13,765  2013 2007 2701 El Camino Real
Paramus, NJ — 2,840  35,728  2,061  2,986  37,643  11,868  2013 1998 567 Paramus Road
Paris, IL — 688 6,203  403 719 6,575  639 2021 2001 146 Brookstone Lane
Paris, TX — 490 5,452  1,160  490 6,612  5,507  2005 2006 750 N Collegiate Dr
Parma, OH — 1,533  9,221  754 1,536  9,972  1,904  2019 2016 11500 Huf fman Road
Paso Robles, CA — 1,770  8,630  6,298  1,770  14,928  5,940  2002 1998 1919 Creston Rd.
Peabody , MA — 2,250  16,071  1,405  2,380  17,346  4,853  2013 1994 73 Mar gin Street
Pella, IA — 870 6,716  496 938 7,144  1,940  2012 2002 2602 Fifield Road
Pembroke, ON — 1,931  9,427  1,106  1,915  10,549  3,434  2012 1999 1111 Pembroke Street West
Pennington, NJ — 1,380  27,620  3,861  1,527  31,334  8,970  2011 2000 143 West Franklin Avenue
Penticton, BC — 3,706  46,717  3,508  3,706  50,225  2,779  2022 2015 3475 Wilson Street
Peoria, AZ — 766 21,796  2,636  766 24,432  4,725  2018 2014 13391 N 94th Drive
Peoria, AZ — 2,006  12,091  920 2,006  13,01 1 1,467  2021 1997 13619 N 94th Drive
Pickerington, OH — 2,815  26,921  645 2,815  27,566  964 2022 2019 602 Redbud Road
Pittsbur gh, P A — 1,580  18,017  11,434  1,615  29,416  7,323  2013 2009 900 Lincoln Club Dr .
Pittston, P A — 1,644  13,756  858 1,644  14,614  529 2022 2019 900 N Twp Blvd
Placentia, CA — 8,480  17,076  6,657  8,528  23,685  7,370  2016 1987 1180 N Bradford Avenue
Plainview , NY — 3,066  19,901  1,935  3,182  21,720  6,574  2013 2001 1231 Old Country Road
Plano, TX 28,960  3,120  59,950  6,115 3,294  65,891  23,616  2013 2006 4800 West Parker Road
Plano, TX — 1,750  15,390  2,126  1,750  17,516  3,619  2016 2014 3690 Mapleshade Lane
Plattsmouth, NE — 250 5,650  189 250 5,839  2,021  2010 1999 1913 E. Highway 34
Playa Vista, CA — 1,580  40,531  4,053  1,677  44,487  13,996  2013 2006 5555 Playa Vista Drive
Pleasanton, CA — — — 52,279  3,676  48,603  5,362  2016 2017 5700 Pleasant Hill Road
Port Perry , ON 10,118 3,685  26,788  2,883  3,784  29,572  6,135  2015 2009 15987 Simcoe Street
Port St. Lucie, FL — 8,700  47,230  21,669  8,700  68,899  24,522  2008 2010 10685 SW  Stony Creek Way
(Dollars in thousands)
Initial Cost to Company Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:
Portage, MI 40,751  2,880  59,764  2,780  2,885  62,539  9,582  2019 2017 3951 W. Milham Ave.
Porterville, CA — 1,739  15,190  235 1,742  15,422  1,742  2021 1999 2500 W Henderson Avenue
Potomac, MD — — — 58,183  6,648  51,535  3,793  2018 2021 10800 Potomac Tennis Lane
Princeton, NJ — 1,730  30,888  3,008  1,845  33,781  10,534  2011 2001 155 Raymond Road
Princeton, NJ — — — 31,755  3,703  28,052  255 2020 2001 775 Mt Lucas Road
Purley , UK — 7,365  35,161  1,462  7,193  36,795  12,570  2012 2005 21 Russell Hill Road
Puyallup, WA — 1,150  20,776  7,066  1,156  27,836  8,955  2010 1985 123 Fourth Ave. NW
Quebec City , QC 5,996  2,420  21,977  3,542  2,572  25,367  4,947  2018 2000 795, rue Alain
Quebec City , QC 10,541  3,300  28,325  4,897  3,325  33,197  6,482  2018 1987 650 and 700, avenue Murray
Queensbury , NY — 1,260  21,744  4,174  1,273  25,905  5,601  2015 1999 27 Woodvale Road
Quincy , IL — 2,328  16,254  117 2,332  16,367  1,544  2021 2005 823 S 36th St.
Rancho Cucamonga, CA — 1,480  10,055  2,477  2,084  11,928  4,694  2013 2001 9519 Baseline Road
Rancho Palos Verdes, CA — 5,450  60,034  9,014  5,450  69,048  21,690  2012 2004 5701 Crestridge Road
Randolph, NJ 29,300  1,540  46,934  2,905  1,760  49,619  15,120  2013 2006 648 Route 10 West
Rantoul, IL — 579 4,576  194 579 4,770  562 2021 2002 300 Twin Lakes Drive
Red Deer , AB 10,685  1,247  19,283  2,039  1,290  21,279  5,051  2015 2004 3100 - 22 Street
Red Deer , AB 12,559  1,199  22,339  2,602  1,212  24,928  6,195  2015 2004 10 Inglewood Drive
Redding, CA 25,501  4,474  36,557  1,877  4,474  38,434  5,769  2019 2017 2150 Bechelli Lane
Redding, CA — 2,639  10,290  127 2,675  10,381  1,286  2021 1985 451 Hilltop Drive
Redlands, CA — 1,966  40,425  398 1,966  40,823  4,170  2021 1988 10 Terracina Blvd
Regina, SK 4,957  1,485  21,148  1,583  1,625  22,591  7,541  2013 1999 3651 Albert Street
Regina, SK 4,962  1,244  21,036  1,411 1,310  22,381  6,901  2013 2004 3105 Hillsdale Street
Regina, SK 13,359  1,539  24,053  3,840  1,602  27,830  6,147  2015 1992 1801 McIntyre Street
Rehoboth Beach, DE — 960 24,248  9,567  993 33,782  9,834  2010 1999 36101 Seaside Blvd
Reno, NV — 1,060  11,440  3,997  1,060  15,437  6,240  2004 1998 5165 Summit Ridge Court
Richmond, VA — 6,501  23,697  131 6,529  23,800  2,569  2021 2007 10300 Three Chopt Rd.
Ridgeland, MS — 520 7,675  4,070  520 11,745  4,701  2003 1997 410 Orchard Park
Riviere-du-Loup, QC 2,215  592 7,601  1,339  654 8,878  2,339  2015 1956 35 des Cedres
Riviere-du-Loup, QC 10,606  1,454  16,848  5,327  1,753  21,876  6,198  2015 1993 230-235 rue Des Chenes
Robinson, IL — 660 3,667  201 660 3,868  569 2021 1999 1101 North Monroe Street
Rockford, IL — 1,006  5,119 320 1,020  5,425  739 2021 2003 3495 McFarland Road
Rockwall, TX — 2,220  17,650  592 2,220  18,242  3,462  2012 2014 720 E Ralph Hall Parkway
Rocky Hill, CT — 1,090  6,710  5,880  42 13,638  4,638  2003 1996 60 Cold Spring Rd.
Rohnert Park, CA — 6,500  18,700  5,737  6,546  24,391  10,676  2005 1986 4855 Snyder Lane
Romeoville, IL — 854 12,646  61,368  6,129  68,739  22,686  2006 2010 605 S Edward Dr .
Rosebur g, OR — 979 14,453  211 979 14,664  1,639  2021 1984 1800 Hughwood
Roseville, MN — 1,540  35,877  1,723  1,648  37,492  11,120  2013 2002 2555 Snelling Avenue, North
Roseville, CA — 3,300  41,652  7,443  3,300  49,095  12,508  2016 2000 5161 Foothills Boulevard
Roseville, CA — 3,011 55,937  526 3,011 56,463  1,146  2022 2021 2400 Pleasant Grove Boulevard
Roswell, GA — 1,107  9,627  5,338  1,114 14,958  9,685  1997 1999 655 Mansell Rd.
Roswell, GA — 2,080  6,486  4,423  2,380  10,609  3,523  2012 1997 75 Magnolia Street
Round Rock, TX — 2,358  15,477  37 2,358  15,514  1,430  2021 2007 310 Chisholm Trail
Rowlett, TX — 1,612  21,319  280 1,629  21,582  1,561  2020 2019 4205-4209 Dalrock Rd
Sabre Springs, CA — — — 47,013  3,726  43,287  4,594  2016 2017 12515 Springhurst Drive
Sachse, TX — — — 13,777  55 13,722  — 2021 1900 Bunker Hill Rd
Sacramento, CA — 940 14,781  6,266  952 21,035  6,247  2010 1978 6350 Riverside Blvd(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)
Initial Cost to Company Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:
Sacramento, CA — 1,300  23,394  2,270  1,369  25,595  7,831  2013 2004 345 Munroe Street
Saginaw , MI — 1,483  17,915  155 1,505  18,048  2,073  2021 1997 4141 McCarty Road
Saint-Lambert, QC 29,319  10,259  61,903  8,673  10,677  70,158  21,753  2015 1989 1705 Avenue Victoria
Salaberry-de-V alleyfield, QC 13,81 1 1,874  15,120  2,046  1,874  17,166  825 2022 1970 88 Rue Duf ferin
Salem, OR — 918 9,659  989 918 10,648  1,664  2020 1999 4452 Lancaster Dr NE
Salem, OR — 1,227  8,632  1,149  1,227  9,781  1,608  2020 1997 4050 12th Street Cutof f SE
Salem, OR — — — 22,877  2,877  20,000  2,198  2021 1980 707 Madrona Avenue SE
Salinas, CA — 5,110 41,424  11,616  5,155  52,995  14,367  2016 1990 1320 Padre Drive
Salisbury , UK — 2,720  15,269  670 2,663  15,996  3,709  2014 2013 Shapland Close
Salt Lake City , UT — 1,360  19,691  1,925  1,396  21,580  8,551  2011 1986 1430 E. 4500 S.
San Antonio, TX — — — 37,079  6,120  30,959  9,607  2010 2011 2702 Cembalo Blvd
San Antonio, TX — — — 66,415  5,045  61,370  11,281  2017 2015 11300 Wild Pine
San Antonio, TX — 11,686  69,930  5,106  11,686  75,036  12,642  2019 2016 6870 Heuermann Road
San Diego, CA — 5,810  63,078  9,109  5,810  72,187  24,868  2012 2001 13075 Evening Creek Drive S
San Diego, CA — 3,000  27,164  2,309  3,016  29,457  8,645  2013 2003 810 Turquoise Street
San Diego, CA 28,321  4,179  40,328  1,610  4,179  41,938  5,386  2019 2017 955 Grand Ave
San Francisco, CA — 5,920  91,639  14,349  5,920  105,988  26,389  2016 1998 1550 Sutter Street
San Francisco, CA — 11,800  77,214  11,447  11,800  88,661  21,924  2016 1923 1601 19th Avenue
San Gabriel, CA — 3,120  15,566  1,871  3,170  17,387  5,529  2013 2005 8332 Huntington Drive
San Jose, CA — 3,280  46,823  8,768  3,280  55,591  17,325  2012 2002 500 S Winchester Boulevard
San Jose, CA — 11,900  27,647  5,647  11,966  33,228  8,905  2016 2002 4855 San Felipe Road
San Rafael, CA — 1,620  27,392  4,578  1,620  31,970  7,484  2016 2001 111 Merrydale Road
San Ramon, CA — 8,700  72,223  11,245  8,781  83,387  20,399  2016 1992 9199 Fircrest Lane
Sand Springs, OK — 910 19,654  379 910 20,033  5,452  2012 2002 4402 South 129th Avenue West
Sandy Springs, GA — 2,214  8,360  1,670  2,220  10,024  4,370  2012 1997 5455 Glenridge Drive NE
Santa Ana, CA — — 1,243  — — 1,243  — 2021 1992 3730 South Greenville Street
Santa Monica, CA 15,820  5,250  28,340  1,716  5,266  30,040  9,154  2013 2004 1312 15th Street
Santa Rosa, CA — 2,250  26,273  4,096  2,309  30,310  7,347  2016 2001 4225 Wayvern Drive
Santa Rosa, CA — 6,484  52,195  1,896  6,484  54,091  1,601  2022 2013 4210 Thomas Lake Harris Drive
Sarasota, FL — 20,105  96,495  1,774  19,705  98,669  6,757  2021 1985 3260 Lake Pointe Boulevard
Saskatoon, SK 3,058  981 13,905  1,037  997 14,926  3,913  2013 1999 220 24th Street East
Saskatoon, SK 11,489  1,382  17,609  1,465  1,511 18,945  5,585  2013 2004 1622 Acadia Drive
Savannah, GA — 1,733  16,218  167 1,734  16,384  1,866  2021 1998 6206 Waters Avenue
Schaumbur g, IL — 2,460  22,863  1,702  2,504  24,521  8,379  2013 2001 790 North Plum Grove Road
Scottsdale, AZ — 2,500  3,890  3,287  2,500  7,177  2,247  2008 1998 9410 East Thunderbird Road
Scranton, P A — 896 10,591  730 896 11,321  2,007  2019 2014 1651 Dickson Avenue
Seal Beach, CA — 6,204  72,954  3,511 6,271  76,398  26,644  2013 2004 3850 Lampson Avenue
Seattle, WA — 5,190  9,350  2,583  5,199  11,924  5,118 2010 1962 11501 15th Ave NE
Seattle, WA 27,180  10,670  37,291  2,518  10,700  39,779  16,538  2010 2005 805 4th Ave N
Seattle, WA — 1,150  19,887  3,002  1,150  22,889  5,702  2015 1995 11039 17th Avenue
Selbyville, DE — 750 25,912  1,713  769 27,606  8,587  2010 2008 21111 Arrington Dr
Sevenoaks, UK — 6,181  40,240  1,889  6,050  42,260  15,466  2012 2009 64 - 70 Westerham Road
Severna Park, MD — — 67,623  6,554  44 74,133  16,745  2016 1997 43 W McKinsey Road
Shawnee, KS — 2,109  22,141  544 2,109  22,685  554 2022 2020 7200 Silverheel St
Shelby Township, MI 13,180  1,040  26,344  1,464  1,110 27,738  8,758  2013 2006 46471 Hayes Road
Sherman, TX — 700 5,221  1,795  700 7,016  2,327  2005 2006 1011 E. Pecan Grove Rd.
(Dollars in thousands)
Initial Cost to Company Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:
Sherman, TX — 1,712  22,567  387 1,721  22,945  2,201  2021 1986 3701 N Loy Lake Rd
Shrewsbury , NJ — 2,120  38,116 3,973  2,160  42,049  13,060  2010 2000 5 Meridian Way
Sidcup, UK — 7,446  56,570  3,412  7,259  60,169  21,290  2012 2000 Frognal Avenue
Silver Spring, MD — — — 64,828  3,442  61,386  6,452  2016 2018 2201 Colston Drive
Simi Valley , CA — 3,200  16,664  2,824  3,340  19,348  7,090  2013 2009 190 Tierra Rejada Road
Simi Valley , CA — 5,510  51,406  9,063  5,510  60,469  16,21 1 2016 2003 5300 E Los Angeles Avenue
Simi Valley , CA — 3,084  41,697  506 3,084  42,203  1,011 2022 2021 3110 Royal Avenue
Solihull, UK — 2,695  24,907  — 2,695  24,907  10,262  2012 2009 1270 Warwick Road
Solihull, UK — — — 23,724  2,268  21,456  6,291  2018 2009 1270 Warwick Road
Solihull, UK — 3,571  26,053  260 3,475  26,409  8,495  2013 2007 1 Worcester Way
Solihull, UK — 1,851  10,585  434 1,812  11,058  2,039  2015 2016 Warwick Road
Sonning, UK — 5,644  42,155  623 5,503  42,919  13,744  2013 2009 Old Bath Rd.
Sonoma, CA — 1,100  18,400  6,015  1,109  24,406  10,582  2005 1988 800 Oregon St.
Sonoma, CA — 2,820  21,890  4,015  2,819  25,906  6,453  2016 2005 91 Napa Road
South Haven, MI — 1,140  7,793  580 1,140  8,373  435 2022 2001 706 Kentucky Ave
South Jordan, UT — 4,646  42,705  4,356  4,646  47,061  8,227  2020 2015 11289 Oakmond Rd
Southlake, TX — 6,207  56,805  8,976  6,207  65,781  14,333  2019 2008 101 Watermere Drive
Spokane, WA — 3,200  25,064  5,453  3,200  30,517  10,263  2013 2001 3117 E. Chaser Lane
Spokane, WA — 2,580  25,342  4,897  2,580  30,239  9,399  2013 1999 1110 E. Westview Ct.
Spokane, WA — 1,334  11,997  185 1,334  12,182  1,201  2021 1985 1616 E 30th Avenue
Springdale, AR — 2,950  28,237  307 2,950  28,544  2,860  2021 1996 5000 Arkanshire Circle
Springfield, IL — 1,166  18,767  69 1,172  18,830  1,660  2021 1990 2601 Montvale Drive
Springfield, MO — 1,667  17,972  306 1,667  18,278  1,527  2021 1987 2900 S Jef ferson
St Johns, MI — 794 5,682  269 794 5,951  256 2022 2008 1507 Glastonbury Dr
St. Albert, AB 6,894  1,145  17,863  1,294  1,203  19,099  6,766  2014 2005 78C McKenney Avenue
St. John's, NL 4,311 706 11,765  243 717 11,997  2,587  2015 2005 64 Portugal Cove Road
St. Petersbur g, FL — 9,218  39,883  1,201  9,522  40,780  6,905  2021 1973 1255 Pasadena Ave South
Stephenville, TX — 1,072  3,464  1,151  1,072  4,615  586 2021 1990 2305 Lingleville Highway
Stittsville, ON 3,384  1,175  17,397  1,254  1,269  18,557  5,543  2013 1996 1340 - 1354 Main Street
Stockport, UK — — — 29,771  4,276  25,495  8,668  2013 2008 1 Dairyground Road
Stockton, CA — 2,280  5,983  4,666  2,372  10,557  3,365  2010 1988 6725 Inglewood
Strongsville, OH — 1128 10940 673 1132 11609 2386 2019 2017 15100 Howe Road
Strongsville, OH — 2,577  13,463  49 2,578  13,51 1 1,605  2021 2002 19205 Pearl Rd.
Stuart, FL — 5,276  24,182  1,010  5,276  25,192  3,767  2019 2019 2625 SE Cove Road
Studio City , CA — 4,006  25,307  2,095  4,124  27,284  9,159  2013 2004 4610 Coldwater Canyon Avenue
Suffield, CT — 4,439  31,660  2,851  4,447  34,503  6,042  2019 1998 7 Canal Road
Sugar Land, TX — 960 31,423  2,106  960 33,529  11,661  2011 1996 1221 Seventh St
Sugar Land, TX — 4,272  60,493  6,774  4,272  67,267  14,921  2017 2015 744 Brooks Street
Summerville, SC — 2,175  18,017  225 2,175  18,242  1,518  2021 2017 4015 2nd Ave
Summit, NJ — 3,080  14,152  12,657  3,080  26,809  4,658  2011 2001 41 Springfield Avenue
Sun City West, AZ — 1,250  21,778  3,747  1,250  25,525  7,512  2012 1998 13810 West Sandridge Drive
Sunninghill, UK — 11,014  40,513  — 11,014  40,513  6,162  2014 2017 Bagshot Road
Sunnyvale, CA — 5,420  41,682  4,056  5,420  45,738  15,424  2012 2002 1039 East El Camino Real
Surrey , BC 5,035  3,605  18,818  1,980  3,705  20,698  7,851  2013 2000 16028 83rd Avenue
Surrey , BC 13,087  4,552  22,338  2,836  4,679  25,047  9,834  2013 1987 15501 16th Avenue
Sutton, UK — 4,096  14,532  807 4,010  15,425  2,568  2015 2016 123 Westmead Road
Sutton Coldfield, UK — 2,807  11,313  450 2,748  11,822  1,969  2015 2016 134 Jockey Road
Suwanee, GA — 1,560  11,538  1,818  1,560  13,356  5,181  2012 2000 4315 Johns Creek Parkway(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)
Initial Cost to Company
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:
Swartz Creek, MI — 925 7,524  378 925 7,902  373 2022 2017 4276 Kroger Dr
Sway , UK — 4,145  15,508  481 4,058  16,076  4,584  2014 2008 Sway Place
Swift Current, SK — 492 10,119 1,141  509 11,243  3,733  2013 2001 301 Macoun Drive
Sycamore, IL — 1,033  11,401  359 1,042  11,751  1,314  2021 2003 1440 Somonauk Street
Sylvania, OH — 1,205  11991 35 1205 12026 1651 2019 2019 4120 King Road
Syracuse, NY — 1,440  11,675  966 1529 12552 2,364  2019 2011 6715 Buckley Road
Tacoma, WA — 4,170  73,377  18,774  4,170  92,151  26,982  2016 1987 8201 6th Avenue
Tallmadge, OH 14,426  1,096  19,504  1,003  1,096  20,507  339 2022 2016 73 East Ave
Tarboro, NC — 1,643  11,124  477 1,705  11,539  3,671  2021 1983 200 Trade Street
Taylor , PA — 1,942  12,01 1 32 1,960  12,025  1,389  2019 2020 512 Oak St
Texarkana, TX — 1,403  7,512  610 1,403  8,122  824 2021 1999 5415 Cowhorn Creek Road
The Woodlands, TX — 480 12,379  994 480 13,373  4,652  2011 1999 7950 Bay Branch Dr
Tipp City , OH — 1,223  15,421  1,244  1,223  16,665  630 2022 2018 8001 Red Buckeye Dr
Toms River , NJ — 1,610  34,627  2,242  1,705  36,774  11,643  2010 2005 1587 Old Freehold Rd
Tonawanda, NY — 1,554  13,332  1,371  1,577  14,680  2,866  2019 2011 300 Fries Road
Tonawanda, NY — 2,460  12,564  1,452  2,463  14,013  2,933  2019 2009 285 Crestmount Avenue
Topeka, KS — 260 12,712  215 260 12,927  3,636  2012 2011 1931 Southwest Arvonia Place
Toronto, ON 4,101  1,079  5,364  633 1,070  6,006  1,964  2013 1982 25 Centennial Park Road
Toronto, ON 6,076  2,513  19,695  1,444  2,604  21,048  5,954  2013 2002 305 Balliol Street
Toronto, ON 15,195  3,400  32,757  2,445  3,607  34,995  11,435  2013 1973 1055 and 1057 Don Mills Road
Toronto, ON 5,030  1,447  3,918  657 1,506  4,516  1,758  2013 1987 1340 York Mills Road
Toronto, ON 26,780  5,304  53,488  3,701  5,460  57,033  21,093  2013 1988 8 The Donway East
Toronto, ON 17,218  2,927  20,713  3,579  3,025  24,194  5,437  2015 1900 54 Foxbar Road
Toronto, ON 5,734  5,082  25,493  2,696  5,252  28,019  8,174  2015 1988 645 Castlefield Avenue
Toronto, ON 11,027  2,008  19,620  5,917  2,000  25,545  5,205  2015 1999 4251 Dundas Street West
Toronto, ON 31,760  5,132  41,657  4,657  5,269  46,177  14,892  2015 1964 10 William Mor gan Drive
Toronto, ON 8,980  2,480  7,571  3,434  2,561  10,924  2,691  2015 1971 123 Spadina Road
Torrance, CA — 3,497  73,138  405 3,519  73,521  12,037  2016 2016 25535 Hawthorne Boulevard
Traverse City , MI — 1,042  26,327  1,418  1,068  27,719  2,523  2021 2001 3950 Sumac Dr .
Troy, NY — 1,787  14,123  189 1,774  14,325  1,108  2021 1997 59 Harris Road
Tuckahoe, NY — 9,298  30,934  759 9,346  31,645  2,611 2021 1999 1 Rivervue Place
Tucson, AZ — 830 6,179  7,817  830 13,996  3,855  2012 1997 5660 N. Kolb Road
Tucson, AZ — 6978 78932 2,277  7021 81166 8843 2021 1987 2001 West Rudasill Road
Tulsa, OK — 1,330  21,285  2,374  1,408  23,581  10,960  2010 1986 8887 South Lewis Ave
Tulsa, OK — 1,500  20,861  61 1,614  20,808  10,445  2010 1984 9524 East 71st St
Tulsa, OK — 1,320  10,087  160 1,320  10,247  3,028  2011 2012 7902 South Mingo Road East
Tulsa, OK 12,522  1,752  28,421  187 1,752  28,608  4,469  2017 2014 701 W 71st Street South
Tulsa, OK — 3,161  14,219  142 3,201  14,321  1,639  2021 2005 7401 Riverside Drive
Turlock, CA — 2,266  13,002  1,342  2,266  14,344  2,856  2019 2001 3791 Crowell Road
Tuscola, IL — 477 5,582  255 492 5,822  624 2021 2004 1106 East Northline Road
Twinsbur g, OH — 1,042  8,396  583 1,064  8,957  1,920  2019 2016 3092 Kendal Lane
Tyler, TX — 650 5,268  1,181  650 6,449  2,302  2006 2007 5550 Old Jacksonville Hwy .
Tyler, TX — 1,306  10,515  422 1,306  10,937  1,188  2021 1998 506 Rice Road
Upland, CA — 3,160  42,596  344 3,160  42,940  9,707  2015 2014 2419 North Euclid Avenue
Upper Providence, P A — 1,900  28,195  759 1,909  28,945  5,841  2013 2015 1133 Black Rock Road
Upper St Claire, P A — 1,102  13,455  1,779  1,153  15,183  5,463  2013 2005 500 Village Drive
Urbandale, IA — 1,758  5,514  994 1,758  6,508  1,184  2021 2012 8525 Urbandale Ave
(Dollars in thousands)
Initial Cost to Company
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:
Utica, NY — 2,596  36,067  2,368  2,596  38,435  2,120  2022 2018 1 Patriot Cir
Vacaville, CA — 900 17,100  6,019  900 23,119 9,819  2005 1987 799 Yellowstone Dr .
Vallejo, CA — 4,000  18,000  6,455  4,030  24,425  10,653  2005 1989 350 Locust Dr .
Vallejo, CA — 2,330  15,407  2,553  2,330  17,960  6,484  2010 1990 2261 Tuolumne
Vancouver , WA — 1,820  19042 1842 1821 20883 7549 2010 2006 1001 1 NE 1 18th Ave
Vancouver , WA — 1,406  14,328  1,157  1406 15485 2,113 2020 2001 201 NW  78th St
Vancouver , WA — 4,783  97,858  10,807  4,783  108,665  4,764  2022 2001 5500 NE 82nd Ave
Vancouver , WA — 5,188  101,400  10,623  5,188  112,023  4,768  2022 2008 415 SE 177th Ave
Vancouver , WA — 1,477  22,773  747 1,477  23,520  943 2022 2015 5300 NE 82nd Ave
Vancouver , BC — 7,282  6,572  1,630  7,338  8,146  5,850  2015 1974 2803 West 41st Avenue
Vandalia, IL — 800 5,334  197 800 5,531  765 2021 2003 1607 West Fillmore Street
Vankleek Hill, ON — 389 2,960  490 402 3,437  1,286  2013 1987 48 Wall Street
Vaudreuil, QC 6,930  1,852  14,214  1,740  1,843  15,963  4,253  2015 1975 333 rue Querbes
Venice, FL — 13,646  102,226  204 13,649  102,427  7,292  2021 2019 19600 Floridian Club Drive
Venice, FL — 1,150  10,674  366 1,150  11,040  3,915  2008 2009 1600 Center Rd.
Vernon, BC — 3,911 43,983  3,215  3,911 47,198  2,607  2022 2018 1800 58th Avenue
Vero Beach, FL — 2,930  40,070  27,193  2,930  67,263  31,593  2007 2003 7955 16th Manor
Victoria, BC 5,492  2,856  18,038  1,204  2,951  19,147  6,686  2013 1974 3000 Shelbourne Street
Victoria, BC 16,664  3,681  15,774  1,174  3,792  16,837  6,089  2013 1988 3051 Shelbourne Street
Victoria, BC 15,486  2,476  15,379  1,594  2,562  16,887  3,958  2015 1990 3965 Shelbourne Street
Virginia Water, UK — 7,106  29,937  4,318  5,288  36,073  15,220  2012 2002 Christ Church Road
Visalia, CA — 868 16,855  1,204  868 18,059  1,693  2021 1987 4119 W Walnut Avenue
Voorhees, NJ — 3,700  24,312  3,240  3,873  27,379  7,546  2012 2013 311 Route 73
Waco, TX — 1,383  11,020  168 1,384  11,187  1,109  2021 1997 3209 Village Green Driver
Wall, NJ — 1,650  25,350  4,132  1,731  29,401  8,771  2011 2003 2021 Highway 35
Walla Walla, WA — 1,414  2,399  58 1,415  2,456  348 2021 1987 1400 Dalles Military Road
Walnut Creek, CA — 3,700  12,467  3,624  3,826  15,965  6,279  2013 1998 2175 Ygnacio Valley Road
Walnut Creek, CA — 10,320  100,890  20,233  10,332  121,1 11 32,106  2016 1988 1580 Geary Road
Walnut Creek, CA — 7,167  107,732  11,465  7,167  119,197  3,184  2022 1991 1700 Tice Valley Blvd
Walnut Creek, CA — 4,243  — — 4,243  — — 2022 1900 1700 Tice Valley Blvd
Warsaw , NY — 2,148  8,452  812 2,148  9,264  471 2022 2019 5378 Conable Way
Washington, DC — 4,000  69,154  4,119 4,021  73,252  22,351  2013 2004 5111 Connecticut Avenue NW
Washington Court House, OH — 228 2408 174 228 2582 240 2021 1995 500 Glenn Avenue
Watchung, NJ — 1,920  24,880  3,293  2,128  27,965  8,440  2011 2000 680 Mountain Boulevard
Waterford, MI — 988 13,206  1,087  988 14,293  1,235  2021 1999 900 N. Cass Lake Road
Waterville, OH — 2,574  44,647  1,242  2,609  45,854  4,093  2020 2018 1470 Pray Blvd
Waukee, IA — 1,870  31,878  1,648  1,903  33,493  8,838  2012 2007 1650 SE Holiday Crest Circle
Waxahachie, TX — 650 5,763  782 650 6,545  2,385  2007 2008 1329 Brown St.
Wayland, MA — 1,207  27,462  2,509  1,364  29,814  10,096  2013 1997 285 Commonwealth Road
Weatherford, TX — 660 5,261  866 660 6,127  2,294  2006 2007 1818 Martin Drive
Webster Groves, MO — 1,790  15,425  2,921  1,812  18,324  6,607  2011 2012 45 E Lockwood Avenue
Wellesley , MA — 4,690  77,462  1,175  4,690  78,637  19,593  2015 2012 23 & 27 Washington Street
West Babylon, NY — 3,960  47,085  2,988  4,062  49,971  15,329  2013 2003 580 Montauk Highway
West Bloomfield, MI — 1,040  12,300  974 1,103  13,21 1 4,337  2013 2000 7005 Pontiac Trail
West Chester Township, OH — 2,319  47,857  1,380  2,319  49,237  4,505  2020 2019 7129 Gilmore Rd
West Hills, CA — 2,600  7,521  1,971  2,658  9,434  3,947  2013 2002 9012 Topanga Canyon Road
West Kelowna, BC — 3,739  32,443  2,201  3,739  34,644  1,817  2022 2005 2505 Ingram Road
(Dollars in thousands)
Initial Cost to Company Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
Depreciation(1)Year
Acquired Year Built Address
Seniors Housing Operating:
West Seneca, NY — 1,432  6,684  829 1,437  7,508  1,629  2019 2000 1187 Orchard Park Drive
West Seneca, NY — 1,323  7,547  685 1,382  8,173  1,573  2019 2007 2341 Union Road
West Vancouver , BC 15,181  7,059  28,155  6,867  7,251  34,830  10,685  2013 1987 2095 Marine Drive
Westbourne, UK — 5,441  41,420  4,956  5,317  46,500  14,864  2013 2006 16-18 Poole Road
Westerville, OH — 1,257  9,550  384 1,257  9,934  268 2022 2013 865 Maxtown Rd
Westford, MA — 1,440  32,607  708 1,468  33,287  7,736  2015 2013 108 Littleton Road
Westworth Village, TX — 2,060  31,296  142 2,060  31,438  6,655  2014 2014 25 Leonard Trail
Weybridge, UK — 7,717  48,240  181 7,717  48,421  16,617  2013 2008 Ellesmere Road
Weymouth, UK — 2,591  16,551  243 2,536  16,849  4,019  2014 2013 Cross Road
Wheatfield, NY — 1,357  9,601  867 1,357  10,468  432 2022 2008 3979 Forest Park Way
White Oak, MD — 2,304  24,768  3,258  2,463  27,867  8,812  2013 2002 11621 New Hampshire Avenue
Whitesboro, NY — 1,630  12,001  987 1,719  12,899  2,344  2019 2015 4770 Middle Settlement Rd
Wichita, KS — 1,400  11,000  620 1,400  11,620  6,715  2006 1997 505 North Maize Road
Wichita, KS 11,762  630 19,747  840 630 20,587  5,468  2012 2009 2050 North Webb Road
Wichita, KS — 900 10,134  347 900 10,481  3,121  2011 2012 10600 E 13th Street North
Willoughby , OH — 1,309  10,540  709 1,309  11,249  2,000  2019 2016 35100 Chardon Road
Wilmington, DE — 1,040  23,338  2,774  1,270  25,882  8,338  2013 2004 2215 Shipley Street
Wilmington, NC — 1,538  28,202  172 1,550  28,362  2,665  2021 1991 1402 Hospital Plaza Drive
Winchester , UK — 6,009  29,405  400 5,882  29,932  9,970  2012 2010 Stockbridge Road
Winnipeg, MB 9,336  1,960  38,612  4,991  2,117 43,446  16,292  2013 1999 857 Wilkes Avenue
Winnipeg, MB 22,007  1,276  21,732  2,113 1,568  23,553  7,254  2013 1988 3161 Grant Avenue
Winnipeg, MB 10,516  1,317  15,609  2,709  1,367  18,268  4,953  2015 1999 125 Portsmouth Boulevard
Woking, UK — — — 15,273  2,832  12,441  1,841  2016 2017 12 Streets Heath, West End
Wolverhampton, UK — — — 12,000  2,875  9,125  3,849  2013 2008 73 Wergs Road
Woodland Hills, CA — 3,400  20,478  1,578  3,456  22,000  7,445  2013 2005 20461 Ventura Boulevard
Wooster , OH 13,785  1,560  22,555  1,869  1,560  24,424  523 2022 2014 939 Portage Rd
Wyoming, MI — 3,373  25,319  1,520  3,374  26,838  2,760  2021 1999 2380 Aurora Pond Dr . SW
Yakima, WA — 1,104  10,707  400 1,192  11,019  1,128  2021 1988 620 North 34th Avenue
Yonkers, NY — 3,962  50,108  3,520  4,077  53,513  16,239  2013 2005 65 Crisfield Street
Yorkton, SK 2,484  463 8,760  533 475 9,281  2,942  2013 2001 94 Russell Drive
Seniors Housing Operating Total $ 1,679,562  $ 2,110,584  $ 18,228,152  $ 3,775,526  $ 2,365,088  $ 21,749,174  $ 4,960,254  
128
Welltower Inc.  
Schedule III  
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  
December 31, 2022  
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
Abilene, TX $ — $ 950 $ 20,987  $ 11,660  $ 950 $ 32,647  $ 6,015  2014 1998 6565 Central Park Boulevard
Abilene, TX — 990 8,187  1,089  990 9,276  2,046  2014 1985 1250 East N 10th Street
Agawam, MA — 880 13,130  — 880 13,130  9,343  2002 1993 1200 Suf field St.
Akron, OH — 633 3,002  — 633 3,002  376 2018 1999 171 North Cleveland Massillon Road
Alexandria, VA — 2,452  6,826  — 2,452  6,826  825 2018 1964 1510 Collingwood Road
Alhambra, CA — 600 6,305  8,867  600 15,172  3,612  2011 1923 1118 N. Stoneman Ave.
Allen Park, MI — 1,767  5,025  — 1,767  5,025  614 2018 1960 9150 Allen Road
Allentown, P A — 494 11,845  — 494 11,845  1,413  2018 1995 5151 Hamilton Boulevard
Allentown, P A — 1,491  4,822  — 1,491  4,822  604 2018 1988 1265 Cedar Crest Boulevard
Alma, MI — 1,267  6,543  — 1,267  6,543  606 2020 2009 1320 Pine Ave
Amarillo, TX — 1,273  11,791  — 1,273  11,791  213 2022 2015 1610 Research St
Ames, IA — 330 8,870  1,799  330 10,669  3,031  2010 1999 1325 Coconino Rd.
Ann Arbor , MI — 2,172  11,123  — 2,172  11,123  1,432  2018 1997 4701 East Huron River Drive
Annandale, VA — 1,687  18,974  — 1,687  18,974  2,214  2018 2002 7104 Braddock Road
Arlington, VA — 4,016  8,801  — 4,016  8,801  1,048  2018 1976 550 South Carlin Springs Road
Asheboro, NC — 290 5,032  428 290 5,460  2,634  2003 1998 514 Vision Dr .
Asheville, NC — 204 3,489  — 204 3,489  2,179  1999 1999 4 Walden Ridge Dr .
Asheville, NC — 280 1,955  796 280 2,751  1,240  2003 1992 308 Overlook Rd.
Atchison, KS — 140 5,610  24 140 5,634  1,111 2015 2001 1301 N 4th St.
Austin, TX — 1,691  5,005  — 1,691  5,005  795 2018 2000 11630 Four Iron Drive
Avon, IN — 1,830  14,470  2,718  1,830  17,188  5,181  2010 2004 182 S Country RD. 550E
Avon, IN — 900 19,444  — 900 19,444  4,601  2014 2013 10307 E. CR 100 N
Avon, CT — 2,132  7,624  — 2,132  7,624  1,111 2018 2000 100 Fisher Drive
Azusa, CA — 570 3,141  7,520  570 10,661  4,478  1998 1953 125 W. Sierra Madre Ave.
Bad Axe, MI — 1,317  5,972  — 1,317  5,972  620 2020 2010 150 Meadow Lane
Baldwin City , KS — 190 4,810  58 190 4,868  985 2015 2000 321 Crimson Ave
Baltimore, MD — 4,306  4,303  — 4,306  4,303  561 2018 1978 6600 Ridge Road
Baltimore, MD — 3,069  3,148  — 3,069  3,148  436 2018 1996 4669 Falls Road
Barberton, OH — 1,307  9,310  — 1,307  9,310  1,102  2018 1979 85 Third Street
Bartlesville, OK — 100 1,380  — 100 1,380  957 1996 1995 5420 S.E. Adams Blvd.
Bay City , MI — 633 2,619  — 633 2,619  354 2018 1968 800 Mulholland Street
Bedford, P A — 637 4,432  — 637 4,432  621 2018 1965 136 Donahoe Manor Road
Belmont, CA — 3,000  23,526  1,765  3,000  25,291  9,273  2011 1971 1301 Ralston Avenue
Belvidere, NJ — 2,001  26,191  97 2,001  26,288  3,303  2019 2009 1 Brookfield Ct
Benbrook, TX — 1,550  13,553  2,747  1,550  16,300  4,519  2011 1984 4242 Bryant Irvin Road
Berkeley , CA 11,142  3,050  32,677  5,047  3,050  37,724  9,221  2016 1966 2235 Sacramento Street
Bethel Park, P A — 1,700  16,007  — 1,700  16,007  5,931  2007 2009 5785 Baptist Road
Bethel Park, P A — 1,008  6,740  — 1,008  6,740  854 2018 1986 60 Highland Road
Bethesda, MD — 2,218  6,869  — 2,218  6,869  802 2018 1974 6530 Democracy Boulevard
Bethlehem, P A — 1,191  16,887  — 1,191  16,887  1,918  2018 1979 2021 Westgate Drive
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
Bethlehem, P A — 1,143  13,588  — 1,143  13,588  1,552  2018 1982 2029 Westgate Drive
Beverly , MA — 5,879  10,378  65 5,879  10,443  391 2021 1874 3 Essex Street
Beverly Hills, CA — 6,000  13,385  203 6,000  13,588  2,783  2014 2000 220 N Clark Drive
Bexleyheath, UK — 3,671  10,579  — 3,671  10,579  2,269  2014 1996 35 West Street
Bingham Farms, MI — 781 15,671  — 781 15,671  1,845  2018 1999 24005 West 13 Mile Road
Birmingham, UK — — — 20,248  1,558  18,690  3,694  2015 2010 Braymoor Road, Tile Cross
Birmingham, UK — — — 11,031  1,159  9,872  1,966  2015 1997 122 Tile Cross Road, Garretts Green
Birmingham, UK — — — 16,152  1,612  14,540  2,916  2015 2010 Clinton Street, Winson Green
Birmingham, UK — — — 10,296  1,431  8,865  1,805  2015 2010 Clinton Street, Winson Green
Bloomington, IN — 670 17,423  — 670 17,423  3,632  2015 2015 363 S. Fieldstone Boulevard
Boca Raton, FL — 2,200  4,974  — 2,200  4,974  763 2018 1994 7225 Boca Del Mar Drive
Boca Raton, FL — 2,826  4,061  — 2,826  4,061  557 2018 1984 375 Northwest 51st Street
Bossier City , LA — 2,009  31,198  40 2,009  31,238  1,061  2021 2018 2000 Blake Blvd
Boulder , CO — 3,601  21,364  — 3,601  21,364  2,691  2018 1990 2800 Palo Parkway
Bournemouth, UK — 2,358  16,347  — 2,358  16,347  1,587  2019 2017 Poole Lane
Boynton Beach, FL — 2,138  10,201  — 2,138  10,201  1,314  2018 1991 3600 Old Boynton Road
Boynton Beach, FL — 2,804  14,222  — 2,804  14,222  1,674  2018 1984 3001 South Congress Avenue
Bracknell, UK — 3,865  10,487  — 3,865  10,487  1,483  2014 2017 Crowthorne Road North
Bradenton, FL — 252 3,298  — 252 3,298  2,298  1996 1995 6101 Pointe W. Blvd.
Braintree, MA — 170 7,157  1,290  170 8,447  8,447  1997 1968 1102 Washington St.
Braintree, UK — — 13,016  — — 13,016  2,859  2014 2009 Meadow Park Tortoiseshell Way
Brecksville, OH — 990 19,353  598 990 19,951  4,479  2014 2011 8757 Brecksville Road
Brick, NJ — 1,290  25,247  1,428  1,290  26,675  8,182  2011 2000 458 Jack Martin Blvd.
Bridgewater , NJ — 1,800  31,810  1,758  1,800  33,568  10,292  2011 2001 680 US-202/206 North
Bristol, UK — — — 20,221  3,873  16,348  3,055  2015 2017 339 Badminton Road
Bristol, UK — — — 13,926  2,066  11,860  1,363  2017 2019 Avon Valley Care Home, Tenniscourt Road
Brooks, AB — 376 4,951  130 384 5,073  1,143  2014 2000 951 Cassils Road West
Bucyrus, OH — 1,119 2,611 — 1,119 2,611 378 2018 1976 1170 West Mansfield Street
Burleson, TX — 670 13,985  2,457  670 16,442  4,835  2011 1988 300 Huguley Boulevard
Burlington, NC — 280 4,297  849 280 5,146  2,516  2003 2000 3619 S. Mebane St.
Burlington, NC — 460 5,467  110 460 5,577  2,788  2003 1997 3615 S. Mebane St.
Burnaby , BC — 7,623  13,844  497 7,796  14,168  3,227  2014 2006 7195 Canada Way
Calgary , AB — 2,341  42,768  1,090  2,394  43,805  9,550  2014 1971 1729-90th Avenue SW
Calgary , AB — 4,569  70,199  1,706  4,672  71,802  15,537  2014 2001 500 Midpark Way SE
Camp Hill, P A — 517 3,596  — 517 3,596  438 2018 1970 1700 Market Street
Canonsbur g, PA — 911 4,828  — 911 4,828  642 2018 1986 113 West McMurray Road
Canton, OH — 300 2,098  — 300 2,098  1,313  1998 1998 1119 Perry Dr ., N.W .
Canton, MI — 1,399  16,966  — 1,399  16,966  1,991  2018 2005 7025 Lilley Road
Cape Coral, FL — 530 3,281  — 530 3,281  1,785  2002 2000 911 Santa Barbara Blvd.
Carlisle, P A — 978 8,204  — 978 8,204  1,025  2018 1987 940 Walnut Bottom Road
Carmel, IN — 1,700  19,491  1 1,700  19,492  4,171  2015 2015 12315 Pennsylvania Street
Carmel, IN — 2,222  31,004  666 2,222  31,670  1,614  2021 2018 13390 N. Illinois St
Carrollton, TX — 2,010  19,549  — 2,010  19,549  3,315  2014 2016 2645 East Trinity Mills Road
Cary , NC — 1,500  4,350  1,928  1,500  6,278  3,213  1998 1996 111 MacArthur
Castleton, IN — 920 15,137  — 920 15,137  3,719  2014 2013 8405 Clearvista Lake(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
Cedar Rapids, IA — 596 9,354  16 614 9,352  1,078  2018 1965 1940 1st Avenue Northeast
Centerville, OH — 920 3,958  — 920 3,958  706 2018 1997 1001 E. Alex Bell Road
Chagrin Falls, OH — 832 10,837  — 832 10,837  1,332  2018 1999 8100 East Washington Street
Chambersbur g, PA — 1,373  8,862  — 1,373  8,862  1,145  2018 1976 1070 Stouf fer Avenue
Chapel Hill, NC — 354 2,646  1,617  354 4,263  1,827  2002 1997 100 Lanark Rd.
Charlottesville, VA — 2,542  40,746  52 2,542  40,798  1,283  2021 2019 250 Nichols Ct.
Chatham, VA — 320 14,039  219 320 14,258  3,341  2014 2009 100 Rorer Street
Chattanooga, TN — 2,085  11,837  917 2,085  12,754  2,222  2021 1999 1148 Mountain Creek Road
Cherry Hill, NJ — 1,416  9,871  — 1,416  9,871  1,263  2018 1997 2700 Chapel Avenue West
Chester , VA — 1,320  18,127  499 1,320  18,626  4,266  2014 2009 12001 Iron Bridge Road
Chevy Chase, MD — 4,515  8,685  — 4,515  8,685  1,046  2018 1964 8700 Jones Mill Road
Chickasha, OK — 85 1,395  — 85 1,395  961 1996 1996 801 Country Club Rd.
Chillicothe, OH — 1,145  8,994  — 1,145  8,994  1,076  2018 1977 1058 Columbus Street
Cincinnati, OH — 912 14,010  — 912 14,010  1,702  2018 2000 6870 Clough Pike
Citrus Heights, CA — 5,207  31,715  — 5,207  31,715  3,625  2018 1988 7807 Upland Way
Claremore, OK — 155 1,427  6,130  155 7,557  2,343  1996 1996 1605 N. Hwy . 88
Clarksville, TN — 330 2,292  — 330 2,292  1,430  1998 1998 2183 Memorial Dr .
Clayton, NC — 520 15,733  94 520 15,827  3,506  2014 2013 84 Johnson Estate Road
Cleburne, TX — 1,113 10,560  — 1,113 10,560  192 2022 2015 902 Walter P . Holliday Drive
Clevedon, UK — 2,778  16,570  — 2,778  16,570  3,638  2014 1994 18/19 Elton Road
Clifton, NJ — 3,881  34,941  18 3,881  34,959  2,052  2021 2021 782 Valley Road
Cloquet, MN — 340 4,660  120 340 4,780  1,509  2011 2006 705 Horizon Circle
Cobham, UK — 9,601  24,464  — 9,601  24,464  6,021  2013 2013 Redhill Road
Colorado Springs, CO — 4,280  62,168  — 4,280  62,168  11,722  2015 2008 1605 Elm Creek View
Colorado Springs, CO — 1,730  25,493  693 1,730  26,186  5,126  2016 2016 2818 Grand Vista Circle
Columbia, TN — 341 2,295  — 341 2,295  1,430  1999 1999 5011 Trotwood Ave.
Columbia, SC — 1,699  2,319  — 1,699  2,319  310 2018 1968 2601 Forest Drive
Columbia Heights, MN — 825 14,175  163 825 14,338  4,255  2011 2009 3807 Hart Boulevard
Concord, NC — 550 3,921  683 550 4,604  2,137  2003 1997 2452 Rock Hill Church Rd.
Congleton, UK — 1,993  5,012  — 1,993  5,012  1,077  2014 1994 Rood Hill
Conroe, TX — 1,440  6,136  — 1,440  6,136  113 2022 2013 608 Conroe Medical Dr
Corby , UK — 1,228  5,144  39 1,096  5,315  818 2017 1997 25 Rockingham Road
Costa Mesa, CA — 2,050  19,969  1,003  2,050  20,972  7,730  2011 1965 350 West Bay St
Coventry , UK — — — 15,458  1,920  13,538  2,799  2015 2014 1 Glendale Way
Crawfordsville, IN — 720 17,239  1,426  720 18,665  4,446  2014 2013 517 Concord Road
Cypress, TX — 2,145  14,552  — 2,145  14,552  259 2022 2015 17935 Longenbaugh Rd
Dallastown, P A — 1,377  16,797  — 1,377  16,797  2,043  2018 1979 100 West Queen Street
Danville, VA — 410 3,954  1,073  410 5,027  2,401  2003 1998 149 Executive Ct.
Danville, VA — 240 8,436  1,325  240 9,761  2,025  2014 1996 508 Rison Street
Daphne, AL — 2,880  8,670  384 2,880  9,054  2,662  2012 2001 27440 County Road 13
Davenport, IA — 566 2,017  — 566 2,017  252 2018 1966 815 East Locust Street
Davenport, IA — 910 20,038  — 910 20,038  2,370  2018 2008 3800 Commerce Blvd.
Dayton, OH — 1,188  5,412  — 1,188  5,412  702 2018 1977 1974 North Fairfield Road
Dearborn Heights, MI — 1,197  3,394  — 1,197  3,394  484 2018 1964 26001 Ford Road
Decatur , GA — 1,413  13,796  — 1,413  13,796  1,561  2018 1977 2722 North Decatur Road
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
Delray Beach, FL — 1,158  13,572  — 1,158  13,572  1,661  2018 1998 16150 Jog Road
Delray Beach, FL — 2,125  11,840  — 2,125  11,840  1,490  2018 1998 16200 Jog Road
Denver , CO — 3,222  24,804  — 3,222  24,804  2,819  2018 1988 290 South Monaco Parkway
Derby , UK — — — 10,319  2,234  8,085  1,483  2014 2015 Rykneld Road
Dowagiac, MI — 825 1,778  — 825 1,778  277 2020 2006 29601 Amerihost Dr
Droitwich, UK — — — 14,479  3,443  11,036  667 2018 2020 Former Spring Meadows PH, Mulberry Tree Hill
Dublin, OH — 1,393  2,911 — 1,393  2,911 431 2018 2014 4075 W. Dublin-Granville Road
Dubuque, IA — 568 8,902  — 568 8,902  1,028  2018 1971 901 West Third Street
Dunedin, FL — 1,883  13,325  — 1,883  13,325  1,548  2018 1983 870 Patricia Avenue
Durham, NC — 1,476  10,659  3,220  1,476  13,879  12,764  1997 1999 4434 Ben Franklin Blvd.
Eagan, MN 15,252  2,260  31,643  300 2,260  31,943  5,887  2015 2004 3810 Alder Avenue
East Brunswick, NJ — 1,380  34,229  1,235  1,380  35,464  10,583  2011 1998 606 Cranbury Rd.
Eastbourne, UK — 3,985  23,923  — 3,985  23,923  5,185  2014 1999 Carew Road
Easton, P A — 1,109  7,500  — 1,109  7,500  1,187  2018 2015 4100 Freemansbur g Avenue
Easton, P A — 1,430  13,396  — 1,430  13,396  1,637  2018 1981 2600 Northampton Street
Easton, P A — 1,620  10,049  — 1,620  10,049  1,450  2018 2000 4100 Freemansbur g Avenue
Eden, NC — 390 4,877  186 390 5,063  2,508  2003 1998 314 W. Kings Hwy .
Edmond, OK — 1,810  14,849  3,431  1,810  18,280  3,948  2014 1985 1225 Lakeshore Drive
Edmond, OK — 1,650  25,167  1,700  1,650  26,867  4,268  2014 2017 2709 East Danforth Road
Elizabeth City , NC — 200 2,760  2,841  200 5,601  2,712  1998 1999 400 Hastings Lane
Elk Grove Village, IL — 1,344  7,073  — 1,344  7,073  904 2018 1995 1940 Ner ge Road Elk
Elk Grove Village, IL — 3,733  18,745  — 3,733  18,745  2,120  2018 1988 1920 Ner ge Road
Encinitas, CA — 1,460  7,721  2,054  1,460  9,775  5,580  2000 1988 335 Saxony Rd.
Escondido, CA — 1,520  24,024  1,140  1,520  25,164  8,999  2011 1987 1500 Borden Rd
Everett, WA — 1,400  5,476  — 1,400  5,476  3,341  1999 1999 2015 Lake Heights Dr .
Exton, P A — 3,600  27,267  342 3,600  27,609  3,915  2017 2018 501 Thomas Jones Way
Fairfax, VA — 1,827  17,304  — 1,827  17,304  2,133  2018 1997 12469 Lee Jackson Mem Highway
Fairfax, VA — 4,099  17,614  — 4,099  17,614  2,125  2018 1990 12475 Lee Jackson Memorial Highway
Fairhope, AL — 570 9,119 112 570 9,231  2,672  2012 1987 50 Spring Run Road
Fall River , MA — 620 5,829  4,856  620 10,685  6,471  1996 1973 1748 Highland Ave.
Fanwood, NJ — 2,850  55,175  2,021  2,850  57,196  16,687  2011 1982 295 South Ave.
Faribault, MN — 780 11,539  300 780 11,839  2,186  2015 2003 828 1st Street NE
Farmington, CT — 1,693  10,455  — 1,693  10,455  1,315  2018 1997 45 South Road
Farnborough, UK — 1,993  5,616  — 1,993  5,616  1,173  2014 1980 Bruntile Close, Reading Road
Fayetteville, P A — 2,150  20,244  — 2,150  20,244  5,611 2015 1991 6375 Chambersbur g Road
Fayetteville, NY — 410 3,962  500 410 4,462  2,400  2001 1997 5125 Highbridge St.
Findlay , OH — 200 1,800  — 200 1,800  1,190  1997 1997 725 Fox Run Rd.
Fishers, IN — 1,500  14,500  2,399  1,500  16,899  5,177  2010 2000 9745 Olympia Dr .
Fishers, IN — 2,314  33,731  409 2,314  34,140  1,759  2021 2018 12950 Tablick St
Fishersville, VA — 788 2,101  3 788 2,104  1,382  2018 1998 83 Crossroad Lane
Flint, MI — 1,271  18,050  — 1,271  18,050  2,068  2018 1969 3011 North Center Road
Florence, NJ — 300 2,978  — 300 2,978  1,616  2002 1999 901 Broad St.
Floyd, VA — 680 3,618  4 680 3,622  1,112 2018 1979 237 Franklin Pike Rd SE
Forest City , NC — 320 4,497  226 320 4,723  2,324  2003 1999 493 Piney Ridge Rd.
Fort Collins, CO — 3,680  58,608  — 3,680  58,608  11,015  2015 2007 4750 Pleasant Oak Drive(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
Fort Wayne, IN — 1,770  19,930  1,771  1,770  21,701  6,865  2010 2008 611 W County Line Rd South
Fort Worth, TX — 450 13,615  5,086  450 18,701  6,618  2010 2011 425 Alabama Ave.
Fort Worth, TX — 1,565  15,982  — 1,565  15,982  283 2022 2015 3141 Dalhart Dr
Fountain Valley , CA — 5,259  9,375  — 5,259  9,375  1,128  2018 1988 11680 Warner Avenue
Fredericksbur g, VA — 1,000  20,000  2,161  1,000  22,161  9,536  2005 1999 3500 Meekins Dr .
Fredericksbur g, VA — 1,130  23,202  591 1,130  23,793  5,341  2014 2010 140 Brimley Drive
Ft. Myers, FL — 1,110 10,559  — 1,110 10,559  1,306  2018 1999 15950 McGregor Boulevard
Ft. Myers, FL — 2,139  18,235  — 2,139  18,235  2,205  2018 1990 1600 Matthew Drive
Ft. Myers, FL — 2,502  9,741  — 2,502  9,741  1,425  2018 2000 13881 Eagle Ridge Drive
Gahanna, OH — 2,432  34,645  661 2,432  35,306  1,501  2021 2017 5435 Morse Road
Gainesville, FL — 972 8,809  125 972 8,934  658 2021 2000 1415 Fort Clarke Blvd
Galesbur g, IL — 1,708  3,839  — 1,708  3,839  470 2018 1964 280 East Losey Street
Gardner , KS — 200 2,800  98 200 2,898  611 2015 2000 869 Juniper Terrace
Gastonia, NC — 470 6,129  77 470 6,206  3,116 2003 1998 1680 S. New Hope Rd.
Gastonia, NC — 310 3,096  113 310 3,209  1,640  2003 1994 1717 Union Rd.
Gastonia, NC — 400 5,029  807 400 5,836  2,627  2003 1996 1750 Robinwood Rd.
Geneva, IL — 1,502  16,193  — 1,502  16,193  1,951  2018 2000 2388 Bricher Road
Geor getown, TX — 200 2,100  — 200 2,100  1,378  1997 1997 2600 University Dr ., E.
Gig Harbor , WA — 3,000  4,461  — 3,000  4,461  660 2018 1990 3309 45th Street Court Northwest
Glen Ellyn, IL — 1,496  6,634  — 1,496  6,634  889 2018 2001 2S706 Park Boulevard
Granbury , TX — 2,550  2,940  777 2,550  3,717  1,295  2012 1996 916 East Highway 377
Granger , IN — 1,670  21,280  2,645  1,670  23,925  7,478  2010 2009 6330 North Fir Rd
Greensboro, NC — 330 2,970  662 330 3,632  1,832  2003 1996 5809 Old Oak Ridge Rd.
Greensboro, NC — 560 5,507  2,377  560 7,884  3,375  2003 1997 4400 Lawndale Dr .
Greenville, MI — 1,490  4,341  — 1,490  4,341  531 2020 2016 1515 Meijer Dr
Greenville, SC — 310 4,750  521 310 5,271  2,363  2004 1997 23 Southpointe Dr .
Greenville, SC — 1,751  8,771  — 1,751  8,771  1,085  2018 1966 600 Sulphur Springs Road
Greenville, SC — 947 1,445  — 947 1,445  300 2018 1976 601 Sulphur Springs Road
Greenville, NC — 290 4,393  353 290 4,746  2,313  2003 1998 2715 Dickinson Ave.
Greenwood, IN — 1,550  22,770  406 1,550  23,176  7,316  2010 2007 2339 South SR 135
Grosse Pointe, MI — 867 2,385  — 867 2,385  309 2018 1964 21401 Mack Avenue
Hamilton, NJ — 440 4,469  — 440 4,469  2,421  2001 1998 1645 Whitehorse-Mercerville Rd.
Hanford, UK — 1,353  9,622  — 1,353  9,622  2,392  2013 2012 Bankhouse Road
Harrisbur g, PA — 569 12,822  — 569 12,822  1,537  2018 2000 2625 Ailanthus Lane
Harrow , UK — 7,246  8,092  — 7,246  8,092  1,807  2014 2001 177 Preston Hill
Hastings, MI — 1,603  6,519  — 1,603  6,519  665 2020 2002 1821 N. East St
Hatboro, P A — — 28,112 1,771  — 29,883  9,293  2011 1996 3485 Davisville Road
Hatboro, P A — 1,192  7,608  — 1,192  7,608  1,244  2018 2000 779 West County Line Road
Hatfield, UK — 2,862  7,368  — 2,862  7,368  1,846  2013 2012 St Albans Road East
Haverhill, MA — 5,519  19,554  64 5,519  19,618  734 2021 2018 10 Residences Way
Hemet, CA — 6,224  8,410  — 6,224  8,410  1,048  2018 1989 1717 West Stetson Avenue
Hermitage, TN — 1,500  9,943  540 1,500  10,483  3,020  2011 2006 4131 Andrew Jackson Parkway
Herne Bay , UK — 1,900  24,353  123 1,860  24,516  6,455  2013 2011 165 Reculver Road
Hiawatha, KS — 40 4,210  31 40 4,241  869 2015 1996 400 Kansas Ave
Hickory , NC — 290 987 392 290 1,379  742 2003 1994 2530 16th St. N.E.
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
High Point, NC — 560 4,443  1,406  560 5,849  2,694  2003 2000 1568 Skeet Club Rd.
High Point, NC — 370 2,185  999 370 3,184  1,382  2003 1999 1564 Skeet Club Rd.
High Point, NC — 330 3,395  142 330 3,537  1,769  2003 1994 201 Hartley Dr .
High Point, NC — 430 4,143  1,007  430 5,150  2,131  2003 1998 1560 Skeet Club Rd.
Highlands Ranch, CO — 940 3,721  4,983  940 8,704  3,153  2002 1999 9160 S. University Blvd.
Hillsboro, OH — 1,792  6,339  — 1,792  6,339  1,072  2018 1983 1141 Northview Drive
Hinckley , UK — 2,113 4,106  — 2,113 4,106  1,126  2013 2013 Tudor Road
Hinsdale, IL — 4,033  24,280  — 4,033  24,280  2,764  2018 1971 600 W Ogden Avenue
Holton, KS — 40 7,460  13 40 7,473  1,427  2015 1996 410 Juniper Dr
Homewood, IL — 2,395  7,649  — 2,395  7,649  891 2018 1989 940 Maple Avenue
Howard, WI — 579 32,122  5,943  684 37,960  5,774  2017 2016 2790 Elm Tree Hill
Huntingdon Valley , PA — 1,150  3,728  — 1,150  3,728  647 2018 1993 3430 Huntingdon Pike
Huntsville, AL — 1,382  14,286  90 1,382  14,376  960 2021 2001 4801 Whitesport Cir SW
Independence, VA — 1,082  6,767  7 1,082  6,774  2,007  2018 1998 400 S Independence Ave
Indianapolis, IN — 870 14,688  — 870 14,688  3,624  2014 2014 1635 N Arlington Avenue
Jackson, NJ — 6,500  26,405  7,910  6,500  34,315  7,606  2012 2001 2 Kathleen Drive
Jacksonville, FL — 2,932  14,269  129 2,932  14,398  1,021  2021 1999 3455 San Pablo Rd S
Jefferson Hills, P A — 2,265  13,614  — 2,265  13,614  2,385  2018 1997 380 Wray Lar ge Road
Jersey Shore, P A — 600 8,104  — 600 8,104  909 2018 1973 1008 Thompson Street
Kansas City , KS — 700 20,115 — 700 20,115 4,028  2015 2015 8900 Parallel Parkway
Katy , TX — 1,778  22,622  — 1,778  22,622  3,689  2017 2015 24802 Kingsland Boulevard
Kensington, MD — 1,753  18,621  — 1,753  18,621  2,162  2018 2002 4301 Knowles Avenue
Kenwood, OH — 821 11,040  — 821 11,040  1,324  2018 2000 4580 East Galbraith Road
Kettering, OH — 1,229  4,701  — 1,229  4,701  642 2018 1977 3313 Wilmington Pike
King of Prussia, P A — 720 14,776  — 720 14,776  1,838  2018 1995 620 West Valley For ge Road
King of Prussia, P A — 1,205  4,725  — 1,205  4,725  695 2018 1990 600 West Valley For ge Road
Kingsford, MI — 1,362  10,594  — 1,362  10,594  1,324  2018 1968 1225 Woodward Avenue
Kirkstall, UK — 2,385  9,216  — 2,385  9,216  2,298  2013 2009 29 Broad Lane
Knoxville, TN — 2,207  12,849  1,020  2,207  13,869  2,432  2021 2001 8501 S. Northshore Drive
Kokomo, IN — 710 16,044  — 710 16,044  3,950  2014 2014 2200 S. Dixon Rd
Lacey , WA — 2,582  18,175  — 2,582  18,175  2,140  2018 2012 4524 Intelco Loop SE
Lafayette, CO — 1,420  20,192  — 1,420  20,192  4,286  2015 2015 329 Exempla Circle
Lafayette, IN — 670 16,833  1 670 16,834  3,864  2015 2014 2402 South Street
Lakeway , TX — 5,142  23,203  — 5,142  23,203  6,164  2007 2011 2000 Medical Dr
Lakewood, CO — 2,160  28,091  62 2,160  28,153  6,514  2014 2010 7395 West Eastman Place
Lancaster , PA — 1,011 7,502  — 1,011 7,502  915 2018 1966 100 Abbeyville Road
Lapeer , MI — 1,827  8,794  — 1,827  8,794  843 2020 2004 101 Devonshire Dr
Largo, FL — 1,166  3,426  — 1,166  3,426  540 2018 1997 300 Highland Avenue Northeast
Laureldale, P A — 1,171  14,420  — 1,171  14,420  1,697  2018 1980 2125 Elizabeth Avenue
Lebanon, P A — 728 10,367  — 728 10,367  1,336  2018 1998 100 Tuck Court
Lebanon, P A — 1,214  5,960  — 1,214  5,960  861 2018 1980 900 Tuck Street
Lee, MA — 290 18,135  926 290 19,061  10,230  2002 1998 600 & 620 Laurel St.
Leeds, UK — — — 14,892  1,932  12,960  2,583  2015 2013 100 Grove Lane
Leicester , UK — — — 26,891  2,995  23,896  6,240  2012 2010 307 London Road
Lenoir , NC — 190 3,748  920 190 4,668  2,253  2003 1998 1145 Powell Rd., N.E.(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
Lethbridge, AB — 1,214  2,750  101 1,242  2,823  793 2014 2003 785 Columbia Boulevard West
Lexana, KS — 480 1,770  162 480 1,932  445 2015 1994 8710 Caenen Lake Rd
Lexington, NC — 200 3,900  1,153  200 5,053  2,591  2002 1997 161 Young Dr .
Libertyville, IL — 6,500  40,024  4,686  6,500  44,710  12,935  2011 2001 901 Florsheim Dr
Libertyville, IL — 2,993  11,546  — 2,993  11,546  1,333  2018 1988 1500 South Milwaukee
Lichfield, UK — 1,353  29,685  — 1,353  29,685  5,908  2015 2012 Wissage Road
Lillington, NC — 470 17,579  757 470 18,336  4,170  2014 2013 54 Red Mulberry Way
Lillington, NC — 500 16,451  271 500 16,722  3,664  2014 1999 2041 NC-210 N
Livermore, CA — 4,100  24,996  79 4,100  25,075  5,179  2014 1974 35 Fenton Street
Livonia, MI — 985 13,555  — 985 13,555  1,684  2018 1999 32500 Seven Mile Road
Longwood, FL — 1,260  6,445  — 1,260  6,445  2,123  2011 2011 425 South Ronald Reagan Boulevard
Los Angeles, CA — — 11,430  1,119 — 12,549  4,632  2008 1971 330 North Hayworth Avenue
Louisbur g, KS — 280 4,320  47 280 4,367  844 2015 1996 202 Rogers St
Louisville, KY — 490 10,010  2,768  490 12,778  5,993  2005 1978 4604 Lowe Rd
Loxley , UK — 1,369  15,668  354 1,341  16,050  3,956  2013 2008 Loxley Road
Lutherville, MD — 1,100  19,786  1,744  1,100  21,530  6,859  2011 1988 515 Brightfield Road
Lynchbur g, VA — 340 16,114 260 340 16,374  3,892  2014 2013 189 Monica Blvd
Lynchbur g, VA — 2,904  3,696  — 2,904  3,696  445 2018 1978 2200 Landover Place
Lynnwood, WA — 2,302  5,632  — 2,302  5,632  688 2018 1987 3701 188th Street
Manalapan, NJ — 900 22,624  1,096  900 23,720  7,048  2011 2001 445 Route 9 South
Manassas, VA — 750 7,446  1,352  750 8,798  3,921  2003 1996 8341 Barrett Dr .
Mankato, MN — 1,460  32,104  300 1,460  32,404  5,952  2015 2006 100 Dublin Road
Marietta, OH — 1,149  9,373  — 1,149  9,373  1,119 2018 1977 5001 State Route 60
Marietta, P A — 1,050  13,633  592 1,050  14,225  2,661  2015 1999 2760 Maytown Road
Marietta, GA — 2,406  12,229  — 2,406  12,229  1,429  2018 1980 4360 Johnson Ferry Place
Marion, IN — 720 9,604  — 720 9,604  3,035  2014 2012 614 W. 14th Street
Marion, IN — 990 7,600  — 990 7,600  3,710  2014 1976 505 N. Bradner Avenue
Marion, OH — 2,768  17,415  — 2,768  17,415  2,648  2018 2004 400 Barks Road West
Marlborough, UK — 2,621  6,679  — 2,621  6,679  1,456  2014 1999 The Common
Martinsville, VA — 349 — — 349 — — 2003 1900 Rolling Hills Rd. & US Hwy . 58
Marysville, OH — 408 858 457 408 1,315  177 2021 1990 715 South Walnut Street
Matthews, NC — 560 4,738  771 560 5,509  2,473  2003 1998 2404 Plantation Center Dr .
McHenry , IL — 1,576  — — 1,576  — — 2006 1900 5200 Block of Bull Valley Road
McMurray , PA — 1,440  15,805  3,894  1,440  19,699  5,838  2010 2011 240 Cedar Hill Dr
Medicine Hat, AB — 932 5,566  157 953 5,702  1,315  2014 1999 65 Valleyview Drive SW
Mentor , OH — 1,827  9,938  — 1,827  9,938  1,203  2018 1985 8200 Mentor Hills Drive
Mequon, WI — 2,238  17,761  600 2,238  18,361  791 2021 2015 6751 West Mequon Road
Miamisbur g, OH — 786 3,232  — 786 3,232  551 2018 1983 450 Oak Ridge Boulevard
Middlebur g Heights, OH — 960 7,780  472 960 8,252  3,726  2004 1998 15435 Bagley Rd.
Middleton, WI — 420 4,006  600 420 4,606  2,367  2001 1991 6701 Stonefield Rd.
Midlothian, VA — 2,015  8,602  — 2,015  8,602  625 2021 2015 13800 Bon Secours Drive
Milton Keynes, UK — — — 20,047  1,787  18,260  3,742  2015 2007 Tunbridge Grove, Kents Hill
Minnetonka, MN — 2,080  24,360  4,154  2,080  28,514  8,497  2012 1999 500 Carlson Parkway
Mishawaka, IN — 740 12,188  — 740 12,188  3,605  2014 2013 60257 Bodnar Blvd
Moline, IL — 2,946  18,672  — 2,946  18,672  2,111 2018 1964 833 Sixteenth Avenue
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
Monroe, NC — 470 3,681  839 470 4,520  2,250  2003 2001 918 Fitzgerald St.
Monroe, NC — 310 4,799  922 310 5,721  2,855  2003 2000 919 Fitzgerald St.
Monroe, NC — 450 4,021  417 450 4,438  2,146  2003 1997 1316 Patterson Ave.
Monroe Township, NJ — 3,250  27,771  1,118 3,250  28,889  5,371  2015 1996 319 Forsgate Drive
Monroeville, P A — 1,216  12,749  — 1,216  12,749  1,833  2018 1997 120 Wyngate Drive
Monroeville, P A — 1,237  3,641  — 1,237  3,641  697 2018 1996 885 MacBeth Drive
Montgomeryville, P A — 1,176  9,824  — 1,176  9,824  1,249  2018 1989 640 Bethlehem Pike
Montville, NJ — 3,500  31,002  2,559  3,500  33,561  10,036  2011 1988 165 Changebridge Rd.
Moorestown, NJ — 4,143  23,902  — 4,143  23,902  6,073  2012 2014 250 Marter Avenue
Morehead City , NC — 200 3,104  2,039  200 5,143  2,705  1999 1999 107 Bryan St.
Moulton, UK — 1,695  12,510  190 1,513  12,882  1,881  2017 1995 Northampton Lane North
Mountainside, NJ — 3,097  7,807  — 3,097  7,807  957 2018 1988 1180 Route 22
Mt. Pleasant, MI — 1,863  6,467  — 1,863  6,467  743 2020 2013 2378 S. Lincoln Rd
Naperville, IL — 3,470  29,547  5,862  3,470  35,409  9,730  2011 2001 504 North River Road
Naples, FL — 1,222  10,639  — 1,222  10,639  1,364  2018 1998 6125 Rattlesnake Hammock Road
Naples, FL — 1,672  23,119 — 1,672  23,119 3,303  2018 1993 1000 Lely Palms Drive
Naples, FL — 1,854  12,398  — 1,854  12,398  1,432  2018 1987 3601 Lakewood Boulevard
Nashville, TN — 4,910  29,590  — 4,910  29,590  11,495  2008 2007 15 Burton Hills Boulevard
Needham, MA — 1,610  12,667  — 1,610  12,667  6,594  2002 1994 100 West St.
Needham, MA — 3,957  71,163  191 3,957  71,354  2,068  2021 2013 235 Gould St.
New Lenox, IL — 1,225  21,575  — 1,225  21,575  2,346  2019 2007 1023 South Cedar Rd
New Moston, UK — 1,449  4,286  — 1,449  4,286  1,113 2013 2010 90a Broadway
Newark, DE — 560 21,220  2,442  560 23,662  10,355  2004 1998 200 E. Village Rd.
Newcastle Under L yme, UK — 1,087  5,536  — 1,087  5,536  1,373  2013 2010 Hempstalls Lane
Newcastle-under -Lyme, UK — 1,101  5,420  — 1,101  5,420  1,182  2014 1999 Silverdale Road
Newport News, VA — 839 6,077  6 839 6,083  1,737  2018 1998 12997 Nettles Dr
Norman, OK — 55 1,484  — 55 1,484  1,062  1995 1995 1701 Alameda Dr .
North Augusta, SC — 332 2,558  — 332 2,558  1,586  1999 1998 105 North Hills Dr .
Northampton, UK — 5,072  16,983  — 5,072  16,983  4,378  2013 2011 Cliftonville Road
Northampton, UK — 1,971  6,125  — 1,971  6,125  1,251  2014 2014 Cliftonville Road
Northbrook, IL — 1,298  13,337  — 1,298  13,337  1,578  2018 1999 3240 Milwaukee Avenue
Nottingham, UK — — — 7,725  1,594  6,131  1,239  2014 2014 172A  Nottingham Road
Nuneaton, UK — 3,255  8,793  — 3,255  8,793  2,182  2013 2011 132 Coventry Road
Nuthall, UK — 2,446  10,216  — 2,446  10,216  2,561  2013 2011 172 Nottingham Road
Oak Lawn, IL — 2,418  5,426  — 2,418  5,426  638 2018 1977 9401 South Kostner Avenue
Oak Lawn, IL — 3,876  7,985  — 3,876  7,985  974 2018 1960 6300 W 95th Street
Oakland, CA — 4,760  16,143  282 4,760  16,425  3,681  2014 2002 468 Perkins Street
Olathe, KS — 1,930  19,765  553 1,930  20,318  4,241  2016 2015 21250 W 151 Street
Ona, WV — 950 7,639  — 950 7,639  2,381  2015 2007 100 Weatherholt Drive
Oneonta, NY — 80 3,839  — 80 3,839  1,939  2007 1996 1846 County Highway 48
Orem, UT — 2,150  24,107  — 2,150  24,107  4,508  2015 2014 250 East Center Street
Osage City , KS — 50 1,700  151 50 1,851  445 2015 1996 1403 Laing St
Osawatomie, KS — 130 2,970  145 130 3,115 676 2015 2003 1520 Parker Ave
Ottawa, KS — 160 6,590  47 160 6,637  1,302  2015 2007 2250 S Elm St
Overland Park, KS — — — 31,146  3,730  27,416  9,937  2008 2009 12000 Lamar Avenue(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
Overland Park, KS — 4,500  29,105  7,295  4,500  36,400  12,683  2010 1988 6101 W 119th St
Overland Park, KS — 410 2,840  98 410 2,938  663 2015 2004 14430 Metcalf Ave
Overland Park, KS — 1,300  25,31 1 677 1,300  25,988  5,293  2016 2015 7600 Antioch Road
Owasso, OK — 215 1,380  — 215 1,380  930 1996 1996 12807 E. 86th Place N.
Palm Beach Gardens, FL — 2,082  6,622  — 2,082  6,622  893 2018 1991 11375 Prosperity Farms Road
Palm Desert, CA — 6,195  8,918  — 6,195  8,918  1,091  2018 1989 74350 Country Club Drive
Palm Harbor , FL — 1,306  13,807  — 1,306  13,807  1,753  2018 1997 2895 Tampa Road
Palm Harbor , FL — 2,490  23,901  125 2,490  24,026  1,520  2021 1996 2960 Tampa Rd
Palm Harbor , FL — 3,281  22,450  — 3,281  22,450  2,797  2018 1990 2851 Tampa Road
Palos Heights, IL — 1,225  12,453  — 1,225  12,453  1,448  2018 1999 7880 West College Drive
Palos Heights, IL — 3,431  28,803  — 3,431  28,803  3,236  2018 1987 7850 West College Drive
Palos Heights, IL — 2,590  7,644  — 2,590  7,644  892 2018 1996 11860 Southwest Hwy
Panama City Beach, FL — 900 6,402  734 900 7,136  1,917  2011 2005 6012 Magnolia Beach Road
Paola, KS — 190 5,610  63 190 5,673  1,137  2015 2000 601 N. East Street
Parma, OH — 960 12,718  — 960 12,718  1,585  2018 1998 9205 Sprague Road
Parma, OH — 1,833  10,314  — 1,833  10,314  1,447  2018 2006 9055 West Sprague Road
Paulsboro, NJ — 3,264  8,023  — 3,264  8,023  1,012  2018 1987 550 Jessup Road
Paw Paw , MI — 1,687  5,602  — 1,687  5,602  669 2020 2012 677 Hazen
Perrysbur g, OH — 1,456  5,431  — 1,456  5,431  691 2018 1973 10540 Fremont Pike
Perrysbur g, OH — 1,213  7,108  — 1,213  7,108  838 2018 1978 10542 Fremont Pike
Philadelphia, P A — 2,930  10,433  3,536  2,930  13,969  4,977  2011 1952 1526 Lombard Street
Pickerington, OH — 2,072  27,651  584 2,072  28,235  1,184  2021 2017 611 Windmiller Drive
Pikesville, MD — — 2,487  — — 2,487  276 2018 1998 8911 Reisterstown Road
Pikesville, MD — 4,247  8,379  — 4,247  8,379  1,103  2018 1996 8909 Reisterstown Road
Pinehurst, NC — 290 2,690  818 290 3,508  1,679  2003 1998 17 Regional Dr .
Piqua, OH — 204 1,885  — 204 1,885  1,203  1997 1997 1744 W. High St.
Piscataway , NJ — 3,100  33,351  — 3,100  33,351  5,201  2013 2017 10 Sterling Drive
Pittsbur gh, P A — 603 11,354  — 603 11,354  1,407  2018 1998 1125 Perry Highway
Pittsbur gh, P A — 1,005  15,160  — 1,005  15,160  1,808  2018 1997 505 Weyman Road
Pittsbur gh, P A — 1,140  3,164  — 1,140  3,164  381 2018 1962 550 South Negley Avenue
Pittsbur gh, P A — 761 4,213  — 761 4,213  486 2018 1965 5609 Fifth Avenue
Pittsbur gh, P A — 1,480  9,712  — 1,480  9,712  1,308  2018 1986 1105 Perry Highway
Pittsbur gh, P A — 1,139  5,844  — 1,139  5,844  771 2018 1986 1848 Greentree Road
Pittsbur gh, P A — 1,750  8,572  6,320  1,750  14,892  4,782  2005 1998 100 Knoedler Rd.
Plainview , NY — 3,990  11,969  2,095  3,990  14,064  4,692  2011 1963 150 Sunnyside Blvd
Plano, TX — 1,840  20,152  560 1,840  20,712  4,025  2016 2016 3325 W Plano Parkway
Poole, UK — 3,111 15,639  — 3,111 15,639  1,641  2019 2019 Kingsmill Road
Potomac, MD — 1,448  14,622  — 1,448  14,622  1,710  2018 1994 10718 Potomac Tennis Lane
Potomac, MD — 4,119 14,916  — 4,119 14,916  1,803  2018 1988 10714 Potomac Tennis Lane
Pottstown, P A — 984 4,563  — 984 4,563  592 2018 1907 724 North Charlotte Street
Powell, OH — 1,910  18,008  420 1,910  18,428  895 2021 2018 3872 Attucks Drive
Powell, OH — 2,300  26,198  430 2,300  26,628  1,123  2021 2017 10351 Sawmill Parkway
Prior Lake, MN 12,785  1,870  29,849  300 1,870  30,149  5,533  2015 2003 4685 Park Nicollet Avenue
Prospect, KY — 2,533  9,963  176 2,533  10,139  790 2021 2017 6901 Carslaw Ct.
Raleigh, NC — 7,598  88,870  900 7,598  89,770  13,307  2008 2017 4030 Cardinal at North Hills St
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
Raleigh, NC — 3,530  59,589  — 3,530  59,589  16,116 2012 2002 5301 Creedmoor Road
Raleigh, NC — 2,580  16,837  — 2,580  16,837  4,840  2012 1988 7900 Creedmoor Road
Red Bank, NJ — 1,050  21,275  1,403  1,050  22,678  6,726  2011 1997 One Hartford Dr .
Redondo Beach, CA — — 9,557  755 — 10,312  9,562  2011 1957 514 North Prospect Ave
Reidsville, NC — 170 3,830  1,473  170 5,303  2,485  2002 1998 2931 Vance St.
Richardson, TX — 1,468  12,975  — 1,468  12,975  1,579  2018 1999 410 Buckingham Road
Richmond, IN — 700 14,222  393 700 14,615  3,029  2016 2015 400 Industries Road
Richmond, VA — 3,261  17,974  — 3,261  17,974  2,079  2018 1990 1719 Bellevue Avenue
Richmond, VA — 1,046  8,233  — 1,046  8,233  1,019  2018 1966 2125 Hilliard Road
Roanoke, VA — 748 4,483  5 748 4,488  1,560  2018 1997 4355 Pheasant Ridge Rd
Rock Hill, SC — 1,825  7,676  190 1,825  7,866  718 2021 1995 1611 Constitution Blvd
Rockford, MI — 2,386  13,546  — 2,386  13,546  1,104  2020 2014 6070 Northland Dr
Rockville Centre, NY — 4,290  20,310  1,429  4,290  21,739  6,882  2011 2002 260 Maple Ave
Romeoville, IL — 1,895  — — 1,895  — — 2006 1900 Grand Haven Circle
Roseville, MN — 2,140  24,679  100 2,140  24,779  4,589  2015 1989 2750 North Victoria Street
Rugeley , UK — 1,860  10,046  — 1,860  10,046  2,640  2013 2010 Horse Fair
Ruston, LA — 710 9,790  — 710 9,790  3,299  2011 1988 1401 Ezelle St
S Holland, IL — 1,423  8,907  — 1,423  8,907  1,109  2018 1997 2045 East 170th Street
Salem, OR — 449 5,171  1 449 5,172  3,192  1999 1998 1355 Boone Rd. S.E.
Salisbury , NC — 370 5,697  390 370 6,087  2,977  2003 1997 2201 Statesville Blvd.
San Angelo, TX — 260 8,800  425 260 9,225  4,247  2004 1997 2695 Valleyview Blvd.
San Angelo, TX — 1,050  24,689  1,361  1,050  26,050  5,759  2014 1999 6101 Grand Court Road
San Antonio, TX — 1,499  12,658  — 1,499  12,658  1,524  2018 2000 15290 Huebner Road
San Diego, CA — — 22,003  1,845  — 23,848  8,453  2008 1992 555 Washington St.
San Juan Capistrano, CA — 1,390  6,942  1,524  1,390  8,466  4,634  2000 2001 3031 1 Camino Capistrano
Sandusky , MI — 967 6,738  — 967 6,738  583 2020 2008 70 W. Argyle Ave
Sarasota, FL — 475 3,175  — 475 3,175  2,212  1996 1995 8450 McIntosh Rd.
Sarasota, FL — 443 8,892  — 443 8,892  1,182  2018 1998 5509 Swift Road
Sarasota, FL — 4,101  11,204  — 4,101  11,204  2,168  2018 1993 5401 Sawyer Road
Sarasota, FL — 1,370  4,082  — 1,370  4,082  506 2018 1968 3250 12th Street
Sarasota, FL — 2,792  11,173  — 2,792  11,173  1,343  2018 1993 5511 Swift Road
Scranton, P A — 440 17,609  570 440 18,179  4,021  2014 2005 2741 Blvd. Ave
Scranton, P A — 320 12,144  72 320 12,216  2,765  2014 2013 2751 Boulevard Ave
Seminole, FL — 1,165  8,975  — 1,165  8,975  1,154  2018 1998 9300 Antilles Drive
Seven Fields, P A — 484 4,663  59 484 4,722  2,916  1999 1999 500 Seven Fields Blvd.
Sewell, NJ — 3,127  14,090  — 3,127  14,090  1,929  2018 2010 378 Fries Mill Road
Shawnee, OK — 80 1,400  — 80 1,400  969 1996 1995 3947 Kickapoo
Silver Spring, MD — 1,469  10,392  — 1,469  10,392  1,251  2018 1995 2505 Musgrove Road
Silver Spring, MD — 4,678  11,679  — 4,678  11,679  1,499  2018 1990 2501 Musgrove Road
Silvis, IL — 880 16,420  139 880 16,559  5,454  2010 2005 1900 10th St.
Sinking Spring, P A — 1,393  19,842  — 1,393  19,842  2,362  2018 1982 3000 Windmill Road
Sittingbourne, UK — 1,328  6,401  — 1,328  6,401  1,341  2014 1997 200 London Road
Smithfield, NC — 290 5,680  844 290 6,524  2,901  2003 1998 830 Berkshire Rd.
Smithfield, NC — 360 8,216  209 360 8,425  1,861  2014 1999 250 Highway 210 West
South Bend, IN — 670 17,770  — 670 17,770  4,225  2014 2014 52565 State Road 933(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
South Point, OH — 1,135  9,387  — 1,135  9,387  1,119 2018 1984 7743 County Road 1
Southampton, UK — 1,439  15,189  — 1,439  15,189  2,151  2017 2013 Botley Road, Park Gate
Southbury , CT — 1,860  23,613  3,421  1,860  27,034  7,504  2011 2001 655 Main St
Spokane, WA — 2,649  11,699  — 2,649  11,699  1,410  2018 1985 6025 North Assembly Street
Springfield, IL — 990 13,378  1,085  990 14,463  3,361  2014 2013 3089 Old Jacksonville Road
St. Paul, MN — 2,100  33,019  100 2,100  33,119 6,080  2015 1996 750 Mississippi River
Stafford, UK — 1,902  7,801  — 1,902  7,801  1,312  2014 2016 Stone Road
Stamford, UK — 1,781  3,170  — 1,781  3,170  708 2014 1998 Priory Road
Statesville, NC — 150 1,447  377 150 1,824  905 2003 1990 2441 E. Broad St.
Statesville, NC — 310 6,183  693 310 6,876  3,109  2003 1996 2806 Peachtree Place
Statesville, NC — 140 3,627  56 140 3,683  1,849  2003 1999 2814 Peachtree Rd.
Staunton, VA — 899 6,391  6 899 6,397  1,877  2018 1999 1410 N Augusta St
Sterling Heights, MI — 790 10,784  — 790 10,784  1,308  2018 1996 11095 East Fourteen Mile Road
Sterling Heights, MI — 1,583  15,634  — 1,583  15,634  1,925  2018 2013 38200 Schoenherr Road
Stillwater , OK — 80 1,400  — 80 1,400  970 1995 1995 1616 McElroy Rd.
Stratford-upon-A von, UK — 773 14,203  — 773 14,203  2,823  2015 2012 Scholars Lane
Stroudsbur g, PA — 340 16,313  130 340 16,443  4,176  2014 2011 370 Whitestone Corner Road
Sunbury , PA — 695 7,244  — 695 7,244  844 2018 1981 800 Court Street Circle
Sunnyvale, CA — 4,946  22,123  — 4,946  22,123  2,565  2018 1990 1150 Tilton Drive
Superior , WI — 1,020  13,735  6,159  1,020  19,894  5,104  2009 2010 1915 North 34th Street
Tacoma, WA — 2,522  8,573  — 2,522  8,573  1,016  2018 1984 5601 South Orchard Street
Tallahassee, FL — 1,264  9,652  55 1,264  9,707  740 2021 1999 100 John Knox Rd
Tampa, FL — 1,315  6,911 — 1,315  6,911 967 2018 1999 14950 Casey Road
Telford, UK — 937 10,114 — 937 10,114 380 2021 2021 Shifnal Road
Terre Haute, IN — 1,370  18,016  — 1,370  18,016  4,046  2015 2015 395 8th Avenue
Texarkana, TX — 192 1,403  — 192 1,403  945 1996 1996 4204 Moores Lane
The Villages, FL — 1,035  7,446  — 1,035  7,446  2,001  2013 2014 2450 Parr Drive
Thomasville, GA — 530 12,520  1,347  530 13,867  3,502  2011 2006 423 Covington Avenue
Thousand Oaks, CA — 3,425  19,573  6 3,425  19,579  1,347  2019 2021 980 Warwick Avenue
Three Rivers, MI — 1,255  2,760  — 1,255  2,760  439 2018 1976 517 South Erie Street
Tomball, TX — 1,050  13,300  840 1,050  14,140  4,272  2011 2001 1221 Graham Dr
Toms River , NJ — 3,466  23,31 1 69 3,466  23,380  3,279  2019 2006 1657 Silverton Rd
Tonganoxie, KS — 310 3,690  81 310 3,771  835 2015 2009 120 W 8th St
Towson, MD — 1,715  13,111 — 1,715  13,111 1,577  2018 2000 8101 Bellona Avenue
Towson, MD — 3,100  6,465  — 3,100  6,465  743 2018 1960 509 East Joppa Road
Towson, MD — 4,527  3,126  — 4,527  3,126  454 2018 1970 7001 North Charles Street
Troy, MI — 1,381  24,445  — 1,381  24,445  2,812  2018 2006 925 West South Boulevard
Troy, OH — 200 2,000  4,254  200 6,254  2,834  1997 1997 81 S. Stanfield Rd.
Trumbull, CT — 4,440  43,384  6,799  4,440  50,183  13,509  2011 2001 6949 Main Street
Tulsa, OK — 1,390  7,110 1,102  1,390  8,212  3,065  2010 1998 7220 S. Yale Ave.
Tulsa, OK — 1,100  27,007  2,233  1,100  29,240  4,881  2015 2017 18001 East 51st Street
Tulsa, OK — 890 9,410  — 890 9,410  1,365  2017 2009 7210 South Yale Avenue
Tustin, CA — 840 15,299  573 840 15,872  5,373  2011 1965 240 East 3rd St
Twinsbur g, OH — 1,446  5,919  — 1,446  5,919  788 2018 2014 8551 Darrow Road
Union, KY — — — 33,927  2,242  31,685  2,489  2018 2020 9255 US-42
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
Union, SC — 1,932  2,372  — 1,932  2,372  440 2018 1981 709 Rice Avenue
Valparaiso, IN — 112 2,558  — 112 2,558  1,446  2001 1998 2601 Valparaiso St.
Valparaiso, IN — 108 2,962  — 108 2,962  1,660  2001 1999 2501 Valparaiso St.
Vancouver , WA — 2,503  28,393  — 2,503  28,393  3,238  2018 2011 2811 N.E. 139th Street
Venice, FL — 2,246  10,094  — 2,246  10,094  1,293  2018 1997 1450 East Venice Avenue
Vero Beach, FL — 263 3,187  — 263 3,187  1,778  2001 1999 420 4th Ct.
Vero Beach, FL — 297 3,263  — 297 3,263  1,828  2001 1996 410 4th Ct.
Vero Beach, FL — 1,256  11,204  187 1,256  11,391  843 2021 2007 4150 Indian River Blvd
Vero Beach, FL — 3,580  31,735  1,331  3,580  33,066  2,100  2021 2005 910 Regency Square
Virginia Beach, VA — 1,540  22,593  399 1,540  22,992  5,159  2014 1993 5520 Indian River Rd
Virginia Beach, VA — 2,004  19,634  — 2,004  19,634  891 2021 2008 1853 Old Donation Parkway
Voorhees, NJ — 3,100  25,950  26 3,100  25,976  7,527  2011 2013 113 South Route 73
Voorhees, NJ — 2,193  6,990  — 2,193  6,990  932 2018 2006 1086 Dumont Circle
W Palm Beach, FL — 1,175  8,294  — 1,175  8,294  1,084  2018 1996 2330 Village Boulevard
W Palm Beach, FL — 1,921  5,731  — 1,921  5,731  723 2018 1996 2300 Village Boulevard
Wabash, IN — 670 14,588  1 670 14,589  3,599  2014 2013 20 John Kissinger Drive
Waconia, MN — 890 14,726  4,495  890 19,221  5,606  2011 2005 500 Cherry Street
Wake Forest, NC — 200 3,003  2,625  200 5,628  2,754  1998 1999 611 S. Brooks St.
Wallingford, P A — 1,356  6,487  — 1,356  6,487  881 2018 1930 115 South Providence Road
Walnut Creek, CA — 4,358  18,407  — 4,358  18,407  2,190  2018 1997 1975 Tice Valley Boulevard
Walnut Creek, CA — 5,394  39,084  — 5,394  39,084  4,420  2018 1990 1226 Rossmoor Parkway
Walsall, UK — — — 9,540  1,159  8,381  1,765  2015 2015 Little Aston Road
Wamego, KS — 40 2,510  61 40 2,571  524 2015 1996 1607 4th St
Warren, NJ — 2,000  30,810  1,521  2,000  32,331  9,589  2011 1999 274 King Geor ge Rd
Waterloo, IA — 605 3,030  — 605 3,030  398 2018 1964 201 West Ridgeway Avenue
Wayne, NJ — 1,427  15,674  — 1,427  15,674  2,370  2018 1998 800 Hambur g Turnpike
Wellingborough, UK — 1,449  5,603  — 1,449  5,603  1,304  2015 2015 159 Northampton
West Bend, WI — 620 17,790  38 620 17,828  5,204  2010 2011 2130 Continental Dr
West Des Moines, IA — 828 5,103  — 828 5,103  678 2018 2006 5010 Grand Ridge Drive
West Milford, NJ — 1,960  24,614  273 1,960  24,887  3,164  2019 2000 197 Cahill Cross Road
West Orange, NJ — 1,347  19,389  — 1,347  19,389  2,746  2018 1998 510 Prospect Avenue
West Reading, P A — 890 12,118 — 890 12,118 1,364  2018 1975 425 Buttonwood Street
Westerville, OH — 740 8,287  4,871  740 13,158  11,246  1998 2001 690 Cooper Rd.
Westerville, OH — — — 26,086  2,566  23,520  1,766  2017 2020 702 Polaris Parkway
Westerville, OH — 1,420  5,371  — 1,420  5,371  673 2018 1982 1060 Eastwind Drive
Westerville, OH — 1,582  10,279  — 1,582  10,279  1,310  2018 1980 215 Huber Village Boulevard
Westfield, IN — 890 15,964  1 890 15,965  3,909  2014 2013 937 E. 186th Street
Westlake, OH — 855 11,963  — 855 11,963  1,467  2018 1997 28400 Center Ridge Road
Weston Super Mare, UK — 2,464  6,906  — 2,464  6,906  1,723  2013 2011 141b Milton Road
Wheaton, MD — 3,864  3,788  — 3,864  3,788  493 2018 1961 11901 Geor gia Avenue
Whippany , NJ — 1,571  14,977  — 1,571  14,977  1,847  2018 2000 18 Eden Lane
Whitehall, MI — 1,645  6,789  — 1,645  6,789  697 2020 2012 6827 Whitehall Rd
Wichita, KS — 860 8,873  — 860 8,873  2,856  2011 2012 10604 E 13th Street North
Wichita, KS — 260 2,240  137 260 2,377  491 2015 1992 900 N Bayshore Dr
Williamsbur g, VA — 1,187  5,728  6 1,187  5,734  1,765  2018 2000 1811 Jamestown Rd(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Triple-net:         
Willoughby , OH — 1,774  8,653  — 1,774  8,653  1,079  2018 1974 37603 Euclid Avenue
Wilmington, DE — 1,376  13,450  — 1,376  13,450  1,625  2018 1998 700 1/2 Foulk Road
Wilmington, NC — 210 2,991  — 210 2,991  1,842  1999 1999 3501 Converse Dr .
Wilmington, NC — 400 15,355  579 400 15,934  3,668  2014 2012 3828 Independence Blvd
Wilmington, DE — 2,843  36,948  — 2,843  36,948  4,292  2018 1988 5651 Limestone Road
Wilmington, DE — 2,266  9,500  — 2,266  9,500  1,179  2018 1984 700 Foulk Road
Windsor , VA — 1,148  6,514  7 1,148  6,521  1,988  2018 1999 23352 Courthouse Hwy
Winston-Salem, NC — 360 2,514  595 360 3,109  1,543  2003 1996 2980 Reynolda Rd.
Winter Garden, FL — 1,110 7,937  — 1,110 7,937  2,329  2012 2013 720 Roper Road
Winter Springs, FL — 1,152  14,822  — 1,152  14,822  1,771  2018 1999 1057 Willa Springs Drive
Witherwack, UK — 924 6,769  — 924 6,769  1,690  2013 2009 Whitchurch Road
Wolverhampton, UK — 1,540  6,537  — 1,540  6,537  1,646  2013 2011 378 Prestonwood Road
Woodbury , MN — 1,317  20,935  298 1,317  21,233  3,499  2017 2015 2195 Century Avenue South
Woodstock, VA — 594 5,108  5 594 5,113 1,363  2018 2001 803 S Main St
Worcester , MA — 3,500  54,099  — 3,500  54,099  18,693  2007 2009 101 Barry Road
Yardley , PA — 773 14,914  — 773 14,914  1,885  2018 1995 493 Stony Hill Road
Yardley , PA — 1,561  9,439  — 1,561  9,439  1,420  2018 1990 1480 Oxford Valley Road
York, P A — 976 9,354  — 976 9,354  1,149  2018 1972 200 Pauline Drive
York, P A — 1,050  4,210  — 1,050  4,210  612 2018 1983 2400 Kingston Court
York, P A — 1,121  7,584  — 1,121  7,584  996 2018 1979 1770 Barley Road
York, UK — 2,898  8,092  — 2,898  8,092  1,773  2014 2006 Rosetta Way, Boroughbridge Road
Youngsville, NC — 380 10,689  135 380 10,824  2,486  2014 2013 100 Sunset Drive
Zephyrhills, FL — 2,131  6,669  — 2,131  6,669  920 2018 1987 38220 Henry Drive
Zionsville, IN — 1,610  22,400  2,055  1,610  24,455  7,661  2010 2009 11755 N Michigan Rd
Zionsville, IN — 2,162  33,238  310 2,165  33,545  1,797  2021 2018 6800 Central Blvd
Triple-net Total $ 39,179  $ 873,139  $ 6,845,480  $ 586,644  $ 910,570  $ 7,394,693  $ 1,549,022  (1)
129
Welltower Inc.  
Schedule III  
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  
December 31, 2022  
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Outpatient Medical:         
Addison, IL $ — $ 102 $ 19,089  $ 26 $ 102 $ 19,115 $ 2,346  2018 2012 303 West Lake Street
Agawam, MA — 1,072  4,544  624 1,072  5,168  889 2019 2005 230-232 Main Street
Allen, TX — 726 14,196  1,954  726 16,150  6,994  2012 2006 1105 N Central Expressway
Alpharetta, GA — 476 13,681  — 476 13,681  5,014  2011 2003 11975 Morris Road
Alpharetta, GA — 548 17,103  1,214  548 18,317  8,234  2011 2007 3300 Old Milton Parkway
Alpharetta, GA — — — 20,342  773 19,569  9,373  2011 1993 3400-A  Old Milton Parkway
Alpharetta, GA — — — 38,234  1,769  36,465  18,308  2011 1999 3400-C Old Milton Parkway
Alpharetta, GA — 1,862  — — 1,862  — — 2011 1900 940 North Point Parkway
Ann Arbor , MI — 4,234  30,085  104 4,234  30,189  1,702  2021 2016 4350 Jackson Road
Ann Arbor , MI — 4,044  15,915  50 4,044  15,965  1,310  2021 2014 4200 Whitehall Dr .
Anna, TX — 3,050  — — 3,050  — — 2022 1900 1029 W White
Appleton, WI 6,551  1,881  7,540  1,333  1,881  8,873  1,197  2019 2004 5320 W Michael Drive
Appleton, WI — 3,782  18,003  2,452  3,782  20,455  2,668  2019 2005 2323 N Casaloma Drive
Arcadia, CA — — — 34,889  5,637  29,252  14,903  2006 1984 301 W. Huntington Drive
Arlington, TX — — — 19,294  82 19,212  6,625  2012 2012 902 W. Randol Mill Road
Arlington Heights, IL — 1,233  2,826  623 1,233  3,449  777 2020 1997 1632 W. Central Road
Atlanta, GA — 4,931  18,720  8,659  5,387  26,923  15,351  2006 1991 755 Mt. Vernon Hwy .
Atlanta, GA — — — 45,781  — 45,781  17,829  2012 2006 5670 Peachtree-Dunwoody Road
Atlanta, GA — — — 28,627  2,172  26,455  11,781  2012 1984 975 Johnson Ferry Road
Austin, TX — 1,066  10,112 — 1,066  10,112 2,210  2017 2017 5301-B Davis Lane
Austin, TX — 1,688  5,865  919 1,688  6,784  1,281  2019 2015 5301-A  Davis Lane
Baltimore, MD — 4,490  28,667  2,608  4,490  31,275  3,515  2019 2014 1420 Key Highway
Bellevue, NE — — — 16,781  — 16,781  7,285  2010 2010 2510 Bellevue Medical Center Drive
Bend, OR — 16,516  28,429  2,118 16,516  30,547  5,117 2019 2001 1501 Northeast Medical Center Drive
Berkeley Heights, NJ — 49,555  79,091  13,715  49,555  92,806  11,145  2019 1978 1 Diamond Hill Road
Beverly Hills, CA — 20,766  40,730  4,245  20,766  44,975  11,989  2015 1946 9675 Brighton Way
Beverly Hills, CA — 18,863  1,192  492 18,885  1,662  992 2015 1955 415 North Bedford
Beverly Hills, CA — 19,863  31,690  2,525  19,863  34,215  8,726  2015 1946 416 North Bedford
Beverly Hills, CA 33,729  32,603  28,639  3,267  32,603  31,906  8,999  2015 1950 435 North Bedford
Beverly Hills, CA 78,271  52,772  87,366  4,503  52,772  91,869  21,356  2015 1989 436 North Bedford
Birmingham, AL — 90 34,349  4,430  90 38,779  976 2022 1994 513 Brookwood Boulevard
Birmingham, AL — 40 34,096  4,392  40 38,488  964 2022 1985 2006 Brookwood Medical Center Drive
Birmingham, AL — 60 42,792  5,507  60 48,299  1,218  2022 1979 2022 Brookwood Medical Center Drive
Birmingham, AL — 50 20,514  2,649  50 23,163  584 2022 1975 2018 Brookwood Medical Center Drive
Boca Raton, FL — 109 34,002  5,449  214 39,346  18,618  2006 1995 9970 S. Central Park Blvd.
Boca Raton, FL — 31 12,312  1,025  251 13,117 5,357  2012 1993 9960 S. Central Park Boulevard
Bridgeton, MO — — — 22,858  450 22,408  10,046  2010 2006 12266 DePaul Dr
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description Encumbrances LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Outpatient Medical:         
Bridgeton, MO — — — 8,373  1,501  6,872  2,081  2017 2008 3440 De Paul Ln.
Brooklyn, NY — — — 104,190  — 104,190  5,147  2015 2021 NE Corner of 9th & 49th Street
Burleson, TX — — — 14,007  10 13,997  6,006  2011 2007 12001 South Freeway
Burnsville, MN — — — 34,047  — 34,047  12,239  2013 2014 14101 Fairview Dr
Canton, MI — 1,168  14,561  40 1,168  14,601  826 2021 2004 49650 Cherry Hill Road
Cape Coral, FL — 2,273  12,169  670 2,273  12,839  1,238  2021 1995 2721 Del Prado Blvd
Carmichael, CA — 1,957  9,521  1,113 1,957  10,634  578 2022 1970 6620 Coyle Avenue
Cary , NC — 2,816  10,645  1,468  2,816  12,113 2,957  2019 2007 540 Waverly Place
Cedar Park, TX — — — 30,069  132 29,937  8,559  2017 2014 1401 Medical Parkway , Building 2
Chapel Hill, NC — 488 2,242  149 488 2,391  372 2019 2010 100 Perkins Drive
Chapel Hill, NC 4,817  1,970  8,874  139 1,970  9,013  1,650  2018 2007 6011 Farrington Road
Chapel Hill, NC 4,817  1,970  8,925  48 1,970  8,973  1,854  2018 2007 6013 Farrington Road
Chapel Hill, NC 13,692  5,681  25,035  17 5,681  25,052  4,792  2018 2006 2226 North Carolina Highway 54
Charlotte, NC — 10 23,265  2,245  10 25,510  5,252  2019 1971 1900 Randolph Road
Charlotte, NC — 30 59,039  7,469  30 66,508  12,783  2019 1994 1918 Randolph Road
Charlotte, NC — 40 40,533  5,062  40 45,595  8,248  2019 1989 1718 East Fourth Street
Charlotte, NC — 1,746  8,378  1,392  1,746  9,770  2,234  2019 1998 309 South Sharon Amity Road
Charlotte, NC — — — 93,565  15,678  77,887  5,383  2018 2021 1237 Harding Place
Charlotte, NC — — 22,949  13 — 22,962  960 2021 2021 830 Kenilworth Avenue
Charlotte, NC — — — 58,056  11,783  46,273  2,829  2018 2021 1225 Harding Place
Cherry Hill, NJ — 1,844  4,635  961 1,844  5,596  123 2022 1965 8 Ranoldo Terrace
Chicopee, MA — 6,078  13,793  2,151  6,078  15,944  2,932  2019 2005 444 Montgomery Street
Chula Vista, CA — 1,045  21,387  2,207  1,045  23,594  4,009  2019 1973 480 4th Avenue
Chula Vista, CA — 826 6,106  1,470  826 7,576  1,322  2019 1985 450 4th Avenue
Chula Vista, CA — 1,114 14,902  558 1,114 15,460  2,188  2019 2008 971 Lane Ave
Chula Vista, CA — 1,075  6,828  338 1,075  7,166  1,024  2019 2006 959 Lane Ave
Cincinnati, OH — — — 18,167  2 18,165  6,352  2012 2013 3301 Mercy Health Boulevard
Cincinnati, OH — 537 9,719  592 537 10,31 1 1,759  2019 2001 4850 Red Bank Expressway
Clarkson Valley , MO — — — 36,736  — 36,736  19,187  2009 2010 15945 Clayton Rd
Clear Lake, TX — — — 13,902  2,319  11,583  2,418  2013 2014 1010 South Ponds Drive
Clinton, MI — 1,138  824 5 1,138  829 145 2021 1987 11775 Tecumseh-Clinton Hwy .
Clyde, NC — 1,433  21,099  967 1,433  22,066  2,459  2019 2012 581 Leroy Geor ge Drive
College Station, TX — 1,111 7,456  — 1,111 7,456  218 2021 2021 1204 Copperfield Pkwy
Columbia, MD — 23 33,885  4,716  9,353  29,271  13,520  2015 1982 5450 & 5500 Knoll N Dr .
Columbia, MD — 12,159  72,636  1,508  12,159  74,144  12,226  2018 2009 10710 Charter Drive
Columbia, MD — 2,333  19,232  1,951  2,333  21,183  8,409  2012 2002 10700 Charter Drive
Columbia, MO — 438 12,426  921 438 13,347  2,398  2019 1994 1601 E. Broadway
Columbia, MO — 488 15,702  1,322  488 17,024  3,207  2019 1999 1605 E. Broadway
Columbia, MO — 199 22,289  1,827  199 24,116 3,918  2019 2007 1705 E. Broadway
Coon Rapids, MN — — — 29,660  — 29,660  10,186  2013 2014 11850 Blackfoot Street NW
Costa Mesa, CA 18,573  22,033  24,332  5,957  22,033  30,289  7,955  2017 2007 1640 Newport Boulevard
Dade City , FL — 1,211 5,511 — 1,211 5,511 2,185  2011 1998 13413 US Hwy 301
Dallas, TX — — — 15,550  122 15,428  4,150  2013 2014 8196 Walnut Hill Lane(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description Encumbrances LandBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
Acquisition LandBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Outpatient Medical:         
Dallas, TX — 6,086  18,007  5,320  6,542  22,871  5,026  2018 2010 10740 North Central Expressway
Danbury , CT — 2,382  25,403  370 2,414  25,741  1,221  2021 2019 40 Old Ridgebury Rd
Danbury , CT — 914 10,844  156 926 10,988  533 2021 2010 226 White St
Danbury , CT — 4,209  22,740  449 4,303  23,095  1,433  2021 2017 2 Riverview Dr
Deerfield Beach, FL — — — 11,198  2,540  8,658  4,324  2011 2001 1192 East Newport Center Drive
Delray Beach, FL — 1,882  34,767  3,165  2,449  37,365  21,745  2006 1985 5130-5150 Linton Blvd.
Dunkirk, MD — 259 2,263  314 259 2,577  660 2019 1997 10845 Town Center Blvd
Durham, NC — 1,403  23,788  1,377  1,403  25,165  3,379  2019 2000 120 William Penn Plaza
Durham, NC — 1,751  42,391  2,037  1,751  44,428  4,900  2019 2004 3916 Ben Franklin Boulevard
El Paso, TX — — — 18,992  1,254  17,738  8,703  2006 1997 2400 Trawood Dr .
Elgin, IL — 1,634  9,443  1,594  1,753  10,918  1,827  2020 2004 745 Fletcher Drive
Elmhurst, IL — 41 39,562  374 41 39,936  6,152  2018 2011 133 E Brush Hill Road
Elyria, OH — 3,263  27,163  1,024  3,263  28,187  4,032  2019 2008 303 Chestnut Commons Drive
Escondido, CA — 2,278  19,724  1,245  2,278  20,969  3,288  2019 1994 225 East 2nd Avenue
Everett, WA — — — 31,195  4,842  26,353  11,755  2010 2011 13020 Meridian Ave. S.
Fenton, MO — 958 27,485  1,035  958 28,520  10,843  2013 2009 1011 Bowles Avenue
Fenton, MO — — — 14,478  369 14,109  4,972  2013 2009 1055 Bowles Avenue
Florham Park, NJ — 8,578  61,779  — 8,578  61,779  9,768  2017 2017 150 Park Avenue
Flower Mound, TX — 737 9,276  901 737 10,177  3,009  2015 2014 2560 Central Park Avenue
Flower Mound, TX — 4,164  27,027  2,053  4,164  29,080  9,717  2014 2012 4370 Medical Arts Drive
Flower Mound, TX — 4,620  — — 4,620  — — 2014 1900 Medical Arts Drive
Fort Washington, P A — 2,015  16,104  2,557  2,015  18,661  2,404  2020 1980 467 Pennsylvania Avenue
Fort Worth, TX — — — 27,343  462 26,881  9,166  2012 2012 10840 Texas Health Trail
Fort Worth, TX — 401 6,099  5,035  2,805  8,730  2,413  2014 2007 7200 Oakmont Boulevard
Fort Worth, TX — 1,790  5,082  51 1,790  5,133  238 2021 1983 2001 West Rosedale Street
Frederick, MD — 1,065  6,817  613 1,065  7,430  1,642  2019 1979 194 Thomas Johnson Drive
Frederick, MD — 1,930  18,31 1 1,625  1,930  19,936  3,200  2019 2006 45 Thomas Johnson Drive
Fresno, CA — 1,497  11,896  916 1,497  12,812  1,774  2019 2004 1105 E Spruce Ave
Gardendale, AL — 1,150  8,162  347 1,150  8,509  1,660  2018 2005 2217 Decatur Highway
Garland, TX — 4,952  30,151  2,592  4,952  32,743  5,417  2019 2018 7217 Telecom Parkway
Gastonia, NC — 569 1,638  55 569 1,693  345 2019 2000 934 Cox Road
Gig Harbor , WA — — — 32,798  80 32,718  8,486  2010 2009 11511 Canterwood Blvd. NW
Glendale, CA — 70 41,837  3,081  70 44,918  6,159  2019 2008 1500 E Chevy Chase Drive
Gloucester , VA — 2,128  9,169  458 2,128  9,627  1,915  2018 2008 5659 Parkway Drive
Grand Prairie, TX — 981 6,086  319 981 6,405  3,136  2012 2009 2740 N State Hwy 360
Grapevine, TX — — — 10,758  2,081  8,677  3,084  2014 2002 2040 W State Hwy 1 14
Grapevine, TX — — — 24,375  3,365  21,010  7,138  2014 2002 2020 W State Hwy 1 14
Greenville, SC — 1,790  4,421  1,550  1,790  5,971  2,318  2019 1987 10 Enterprise Boulevard
Harrisbur g, NC — 1,347  2,652  527 1,347  3,179  866 2019 2012 9550 Rocky River Road
Hattiesbur g, MS — 3,155  31,155  4,063  3,155  35,218  4,422  2019 2012 3688 Veterans Memorial Drive
Haymarket, VA — 1,250  26,621  2,841  1,250  29,462  4,414  2019 2008 15195 Heathcote Blvd
Henderson, NV — 2,587  5,376  279 2,587  5,655  864 2019 2002 2825 Siena Heights Drive
Henderson, NV — 7,372  22,172  3,155  7,372  25,327  4,285  2019 2005 2845 Siena Heights Drive
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Outpatient Medical:         
Henderson, NV — 5,492  18,448  1,741  5,492  20,189  2,840  2019 2005 2865 Siena Heights Drive
Highland, IL — — — 8,884  — 8,884  2,809  2012 2013 12860 Troxler Avenue
Hopewell Junction, NY — 2,164  4,659  692 2,164  5,351  692 2019 1999 10 Cranberry Drive
Hopewell Junction, NY — 2,316  4,525  812 2,316  5,337  627 2019 2015 1955 NY -52
Houston, TX — 5,837  33,128  1,518  5,837  34,646  16,029  2012 2005 15655 Cypress Woods Medical Dr .
Houston, TX — — — 21,373  2,988  18,385  1,418  2016 2019 13105 Wortham Center Drive
Houston, TX — — — 17,133  3,688  13,445  5,613  2012 2007 10701 Vintage Preserve Parkway
Houston, TX — — — 84,613  12,815  71,798  25,306  2012 1998 2727 W Holcombe Boulevard
Houston, TX — 377 13,726  783 377 14,509  2,572  2018 2011 20207 Chasewood Park Drive
Houston, TX — 2,351  7,980  900 2,351  8,880  1,024  2020 2013 11476 Space Center Blvd
Houston, TX — 9,550  — — 9,550  — 12 2011 1900 F.M. 1960 & Northgate Forest Dr .
Howell, MI — 2,000  13,928  590 2,001  14,517  3,240  2016 2017 1225 South Latson Road
Howell, MI — 579 4,428  13 579 4,441  316 2021 2019 202 W. Highland Rd.
Humble, TX — — — 9,953  1,702  8,251  1,682  2013 2014 8233 N. Sam Houston Parkway E.
Huntersville, NC — — 41,055  6,880  — 47,935  6,224  2019 2004 10030 Gilead Road
Independence, MO — 762 3,480  680 762 4,160  509 2020 2007 19401 East 37th Terrace Court South
Jackson, MI — — — 17,999  668 17,331  6,411 2013 2009 1201 E Michigan Avenue
Jacksonville, FL — 3,562  24,379  3,474  3,562  27,853  4,896  2019 2006 10475 Centurion Parkway North
Jacksonville, FL — 1,113 10,970  1,377  1,113 12,347  1,762  2020 2000 5742 Booth Road
Jefferson City , TN — 109 16,035  1,005  109 17,040  2,613  2019 2001 120 Hospital Drive
Jonesboro, GA — 567 15,146  1,267  567 16,413  2,992  2019 2009 7813 Spivey Station Boulevard
Jonesboro, GA — 627 15,844  805 627 16,649  2,788  2019 2007 7823 Spivey Station Boulevard
Jupiter , FL — — — 20,095  2,639  17,456  8,636  2006 2001 550 Heritage Dr .
Jupiter , FL — — — 10,208  3,036  7,172  4,103  2007 2004 600 Heritage Dr .
Kalamazoo, MI — — 12,788  — — 12,788  748 2020 2021 2520 Robert Jones Way
Katy , TX — — 11,219  — — 11,219  702 2019 2020 0 Grand Parkway & Morton Ranch Road
Katy , TX — 2,025  7,557  1,255  2,025  8,812  1,036  2020 2016 21502 Merchants Way
Katy , TX — 3,699  12,701  1,910  3,699  14,61 1 2,630  2020 2006 1331 West Grand Parkway North
Knoxville, TN — 199 43,771  3,265  199 47,036  6,191  2019 2012 1926 Alcoa Highway
La Jolla, CA — 12,855  32,658  2,542  12,871  35,184  11,050  2015 1989 4150 Regents Park Row
La Jolla, CA — 9,425  26,525  3,245  9,444  29,751  8,223  2015 1988 4120 & 4130 La Jolla Village Drive
La Jolla, CA — 20,324  33,675  4,164  20,324  37,839  1,221  2022 1985 4180 La Jolla Village Dr
Lacey , WA — 1,751  10,383  143 1,751  10,526  2,011 2018 1971 2555 Marvin Road Northeast
Lake St Louis, MO — — — 14,962  240 14,722  6,603  2010 2008 400 Medical Dr
Lakeway , TX — — — 2,801  2,801  — — 2007 1900 Lohmans Crossing Road
Las Vegas, NV — — — 9,997  2,319  7,678  3,702  2006 1991 2870 S. Maryland Pkwy .
Las Vegas, NV — — — 5,887  433 5,454  2,529  2007 1997 1776 E. Warm Springs Rd.
Las Vegas, NV — 4,180  20,064  2,913  4,180  22,977  2,624  2020 2017 9880 West Flamingo Road
Las Vegas, NV — 5,864  22,502  3,070  5,864  25,572  2,736  2020 2017 4980 West Sahara Ave
Lawrenceville, NJ — 2,691  3,739  1,339  2,691  5,078  271 2022 1975 2 Princess Road
Little Rock, AR — 3,021  20,095  1,907  3,021  22,002  3,922  2019 2014 6119 Midtown Avenue
Los Alamitos, CA — — — 21,670  39 21,631  8,578  2007 2003 3771 Katella Ave.(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Outpatient Medical:         
Lowell, MA — — — 13,790  3,016  10,774  1,713  2011 2020 839 Merrimack Street
Loxahatchee, FL — — — 9,484  1,440  8,044  4,413  2006 1993 12989 Southern Blvd.
Loxahatchee, FL — — — 8,389  1,650  6,739  3,641  2006 1994 12983 Southern Blvd.
Loxahatchee, FL — — — 8,082  1,719  6,363  3,453  2006 1997 12977 Southern Blvd.
Lubbock, TX 40,632  2,286  66,022  6,917  2,286  72,939  7,377  2019 2006 4515 Marsha Sharp Freeway
Lynbrook, NY 25,268  10,028  37,319  2,459  10,028  39,778  6,558  2018 1962 444 Merrick Road
Madison, WI — 3,670  24,615  3,851  3,671  28,465  3,816  2019 2012 1102 South Park Street
Margate, FL — 219 8,743  599 219 9,342  1,637  2019 2004 2960 N. State Rd 7
Marietta, GA — 2,682  20,053  1,805  2,703  21,837  7,297  2016 2016 4800 Olde Towne Parkway
Mars, P A — 1,925  8,307  1,412  1,925  9,719  1,535  2020 2006 6998 Crider Road
Matthews, NC — 10 32,108  2,258  10 34,366  5,296  2019 1994 1450 Matthews Township Parkway
Menasha, WI — — — 18,555  1,399  17,156  5,141  2016 1994 1550 Midway Place
Merced, CA — — — 14,887  — 14,887  6,650  2009 2010 315 Mercy Ave.
Meridian, ID — 3,206  23,619  4,296  3,206  27,915  4,710  2019 2009 3277 E Louise Drive
Mesa, AZ — 3,158  5,588  1,122  3,158  6,710  696 2020 2016 1910 S. Gilbert Road
Mesa, AZ — 3,889  5,816  1,257  3,889  7,073  789 2020 2016 1833 N. Power Road
Milan, MI — 1,216  6,487  59 1,216  6,546  677 2021 2008 870 E. Arkona Rd
Mission Hills, CA 21,671  — 42,276  7,261  4,791  44,746  15,407  2014 1986 11550 Indian Hills Road
Missouri City , TX — 1,360  7,143  — 1,360  7,143  1,133  2015 2016 7010 Highway 6
Mobile, AL — 2,759  25,180  14 2,759  25,194  3,964  2018 2003 6144 Airport Boulevard
Monroeville, P A — 1,544  10,012  1,315  1,544  11,327  2,145  2020 1979 2550 Mosside Blvd
Moorestown, NJ — — — 52,017  362 51,655  21,295  2011 2012 401 Young Avenue
Mount Juliet, TN — — — 15,465  1,601  13,864  7,219  2007 2005 5002 Crossings Circle
Mount Kisco, NY — 12,632  46,294  5,195  12,632  51,489  5,658  2019 1996 90 - 1 10 South Bedford Road
Mount Vernon, IL — — — 25,036  — 25,036  10,417  2011 2012 2 Good Samaritan Way
Murrieta, CA — — — 48,771  — 48,771  25,118 2010 2011 28078 Baxter Rd.
Murrieta, CA — 3,800  — — 3,800  — — 2014 1900 28078 Baxter Rd.
Myrtle Beach, SC — 1,357  3,131  853 1,357  3,984  1,228  2019 1996 8170 Rourk Street
Nampa, ID 15,226  3,439  18,648  2,933  3,439  21,581  2,500  2019 2017 1510 12th Avenue
New Milford, CT — 1,006  3,541  23 1,019  3,551  284 2021 1995 131 Kent Rd
New Milford, CT — 2,033  6,819  151 2,060  6,943  575 2021 1995 131 Kent Rd
Newbur gh, NY — 9,213  28,300  4,079  9,213  32,379  3,124  2019 2015 1200 NY -300
Newburyport, MA — 3,104  18,492  1,464  3,104  19,956  3,137  2019 2008 One Wallace Bashaw Jr . Way
Newtown, CT — 2,176  9,140  1,029  2,205  10,140  671 2021 2015 164 Mount Pleasant
Newtown, CT — 3,039  9,364  160 3,079  9,484  794 2021 2016 170 Mt Pleasant Rd
Niagara Falls, NY — — — 13,062  1,721  11,341  7,281  2007 1995 6932 - 6934 Williams Rd
Niagara Falls, NY — — — 8,631  454 8,177  4,368  2007 2004 6930 Williams Rd
Norfolk, VA — 1,138  23,416  3,617  1,138  27,033  4,783  2019 2014 155 Kingsley Lane
North Canton, OH — 2,518  21,523  2,946  2,518  24,469  2,610  2019 2014 7442 Frank Avenue
North Easton, MA — 2,336  17,936  2,126  2,336  20,062  2,806  2019 2007 15 Roche Brothers Way
North Easton, MA — 2,882  14,463  1,816  2,882  16,279  2,264  2019 2008 31 Roche Brothers Way
Norwood, OH — 1,017  5,642  1,025  1,017  6,667  1,284  2019 2006 4685 Forest Avenue
Novi, MI — 895 34,573  2,787  896 37,359  5,880  2019 2008 26750 Providence Parkway
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Outpatient Medical:         
Oklahoma City , OK — — — 19,166  216 18,950  7,053  2013 2008 535 NW  9th Street
Oxford, NC — 478 4,724  247 478 4,971  766 2019 2011 107 East McClanahan Street
Pasadena, TX — — — 15,571  1,700  13,871  2,101  2012 2013 5001 E Sam Houston Parkway S
Pearland, TX — — — 12,759  1,500  11,259  2,585  2012 2013 2515 Business Center Drive
Pearland, TX — — — 42,538  9,807  32,731  9,967  2014 2013 11511 Shadow Creek Parkway
Phoenix, AZ — — — 64,022  1,149  62,873  33,553  2006 1998 2222 E. Highland Ave.
Phoenix, AZ — 199 3,967  818 199 4,785  718 2019 1980 9225 N 3rd Street
Phoenix, AZ — 109 2,134  150 109 2,284  406 2019 1986 9327 North 3rd Street
Phoenix, AZ — 229 5,442  467 229 5,909  1,231  2019 1994 9100 N 2nd Street
Pinckney , MI — 1,708  3,816  14 1,708  3,830  353 2021 2020 10200 Dexter -Pinckney Rd.
Plano, TX — 793 83,209  8,401  793 91,610  32,439  2012 2005 6020 West Parker Road
Plantation, FL — — — 26,297  8,575  17,722  10,574  2006 1997 851-865 SW  78th Ave.
Pleasanton, CA — 6,748  25,065  3,563  6,748  28,628  1,149  2022 2001 5860 Owens Drive
Plymouth Meeting, P A — 4,047  9,442  1,559  4,047  11,001  254 2022 2002 4060 Butler Pike
Port Orchard, WA — 2,810  22,716  539 2,810  23,255  3,817  2018 1995 450 South Kitsap Boulevard
Porter , TX — 3,746  15,119 — 3,746  15,119 1,102  2018 2019 25553 US Highway 59
Poughkeepsie, NY — 2,144  32,820  4,312  2,144  37,132  3,548  2019 2008 2507 South Road
Poughkeepsie, NY — 4,035  26,001  4,479  4,035  30,480  2,618  2019 2010 30 Columbia Street
Poughkeepsie, NY — 6,513  23,787  4,110 6,513  27,897  2,705  2019 2006 600 Westage Drive
Poughkeepsie, NY 18,080  5,128  18,080  2,704  5,128  20,784  2,060  2019 2012 1910 South Road
Prince Frederick, MD — 229 25,905  1,319  229 27,224  3,854  2019 2009 130 Hospital Road
Prince Frederick, MD — 179 12,243  904 179 13,147  2,406  2019 1991 110 Hospital Road
Raleigh, NC — 8,255  25,589  2,652  8,255  28,241  979 2022 2005 8300 Health Park
Rancho Mirage, CA — 7,292  13,214  2,228  7,292  15,442  2,496  2019 2005 72780 Country Club Drive
Redmond, WA — — — 32,913  5,015  27,898  12,887  2010 2011 18100 NE Union Hill Rd.
Richmond, VA — 2,969  26,697  2,649  3,090  29,225  12,658  2012 2008 7001 Forest Avenue
Richmond, TX — 2,000  9,118 4 2,000  9,122  1,541  2015 2016 22121 FM 1093 Road
Rockwall, TX — 132 17,197  443 132 17,640  6,418  2012 2008 3142 Horizon Road
Rolla, MO — 1,931  47,639  1 1,931  47,640  20,109  2011 2009 1605 Martin Spring Drive
Rome, GA — 99 29,846  2,131  99 31,977  5,070  2019 2005 330 Turner McCall Boulevard
Roseville, MN — 2,963  18,785  2,570  2,963  21,355  3,136  2019 1994 1835 W County Road C
Roxboro, NC — 368 2,327  150 368 2,477  387 2019 2000 799 Doctors Court
San Antonio, TX — — — 15,523  3,050  12,473  2,261  2016 2017 5206 Research Drive
San Antonio, TX — 2,915  11,473  2,575  2,915  14,048  2,255  2019 2006 150 E Sonterra Blvd
Santa Clarita, CA — — 2,338  20,797  5,304  17,831  5,780  2014 1976 23861 McBean Parkway
Santa Clarita, CA — — 28,384  3,558  5,294  26,648  7,761  2014 1998 23929 McBean Parkway
Santa Clarita, CA — 278 185 11,594  11,872  185 268 2014 1996 23871 McBean Parkway
Santa Clarita, CA 25,000  295 40,257  (755) 295 39,502  9,966  2014 2013 23803 McBean Parkway
Santa Clarita, CA — — 20,618  1,354  4,407  17,565  5,119 2014 1989 24355 L yons Avenue(1)
(1)
(Dollars in thousands)
Initial Cost to Company Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Outpatient Medical:
Seattle, WA — 4,410  38,428  916 4,410  39,344  21,217  2010 2010 5350 Tallman Ave
Sewell, NJ — 1,242  11,616  7 1,242  11,623  2,550  2018 2007 556 Egg Harbor Road
Shakopee, MN — 508 11,412  337 509 11,748  5,769  2010 1996 1515 St Francis Ave
Shakopee, MN — 707 18,089  128 773 18,151  7,121  2010 2007 1601 St Francis Ave
Shenandoah, TX — — — 21,197  4,574  16,623  3,346  2013 2014 106 Vision Park Boulevard
Sherman Oaks, CA — — 32,186  4,486  3,121  33,551  10,454  2014 1969 4955 Van Nuys Boulevard
Silverdale, WA — 3,451  21,176  12 3,451  21,188  3,683  2018 2004 2200 NW  Myhre Road
Southlake, TX — — — 18,703  592 18,111 7,805  2012 2004 1545 East Southlake Boulevard
Southlake, TX — — — 31,859  698 31,161  11,785  2012 2004 1545 East Southlake Boulevard
Southlake, TX — 2,875  14,126  1,395  2,875  15,521  2,873  2019 2017 925 E. Southlake Boulevard
Southlake, TX — 3,000  — — 3,000  — — 2014 1900 Central Avenue
Springfield, MA — 2,721  5,698  923 2,721  6,621  1,288  2019 2012 305 Bicentennial Highway
St Paul, MN — — — 38,248  49 38,199  10,147  2014 2006 225 Smith Avenue N.
St. Louis, MO — 336 17,247  3,453  336 20,700  10,100  2007 2001 2325 Dougherty Ferry Rd.
St. Paul, MN — 2,706  39,507  1,573  2,701  41,085  17,606  2011 2007 435 Phalen Boulevard
Stafford, TX — 3,389  14,292  — 3,389  14,292  30 2021 2022 11211 Nexus Ave
Stockton, CA 10,964  4,966  14,412  2,445  4,966  16,857  2,394  2019 2009 2388 - 2488 N California Street
Strongsville, OH — 15,997  — — 15,997  — — 2022 1900 16761 Southpark Center
Suffern, NY — 653 37,255  1,635  696 38,847  17,123  2011 2007 257 Lafayette Avenue
Suffolk, VA — 1,566  11,511 184 1,620  11,641  6,040  2010 2007 5838 Harbour View Blvd.
Sugar Land, TX — — — 19,075  3,543  15,532  7,729  2012 2005 11555 University Boulevard
Sycamore, IL — 1,113 12,910  2,473  1,113 15,383  1,704  2020 2002 1630 Gateway Drive
Tacoma, WA — — — 64,307  — 64,307  29,522  2011 2013 1608 South J Street
Tampa, FL — 4,319  12,234  — 4,319  12,234  4,212  2011 2003 14547 Bruce B Downs Blvd
Tarzana, CA — 6,115 15,510  2,382  6,115 17,892  3,005  2020 1986 5620 Wilbur Ave
Timonium, MD — — — 21,739  8,851  12,888  2,977  2015 2017 2118 Greenspring Drive
Towson, MD — 2,654  10,627  3,165  2,654  13,792  349 2022 1992 8322 Bellona Avenue
Tustin, CA — 3,345  541 430 3,345  971 515 2015 1976 14591 Newport Ave
Tustin, CA — 3,361  12,039  3,998  3,361  16,037  5,174  2015 1985 14642 Newport Ave
Tyler, TX 57,185  2,903  104,300  9,810  2,897  114,116 11,402  2019 2013 1814 Roseland Boulevard
Tyler, TX — 330 35,534  — 330 35,534  217 2021 2022 501 S Saunders Ave
Van Nuys, CA — — — 36,187  — 36,187  14,219  2009 1991 6815 Noble Ave.
Voorhees, NJ — — — 32,884  6,481  26,403  12,826  2006 1997 900 Centennial Blvd.
Voorhees, NJ — — — 100,258  99 100,159  39,751  2010 2012 200 Bowman Drive
Waco, TX — 601 2,594  1,335  628 3,902  1,140  2018 2000 6600 Fish Pond Rd
Waco, TX — — — 111 — 111 15 2018 1962 6612 Fish Pond Road
Waco, TX — — — 106 — 106 10 2018 1961 6620 Fish Pond Rd
Waco, TX — 2,250  28,632  410 2,250  29,042  4,906  2018 1981 601 Highway 6 West
Washington, P A — 3,981  31,706  17 3,981  31,723  5,563  2018 2010 100 Trich Drive
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuilding &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Outpatient Medical:         
Wausau, WI — — — 14,225  2,050  12,175  2,452  2015 2017 1901 Westwood Center Boulevard
Waxahachie, TX — — 18,101  303 303 18,101  5,021  2016 2014 2460 N I-35 East
Wellington, FL — — — 19,839  326 19,513  9,546  2006 2000 10115 Forest Hill Blvd.
Wellington, FL — — — 11,669  580 11,089  6,079  2007 2003 1395 State Rd. 7
Westlake Village, CA 6,360  2,487  9,776  174 2,487  9,950  1,897  2018 1989 1220 La Venta Drive
Westlake Village, CA 8,000  2,553  15,851  397 2,553  16,248  3,532  2018 1975 1250 La Venta Drive
Winston-Salem, NC — 2,006  6,542  1,490  2,006  8,032  2,063  2019 1998 2025 Frontis Plaza
Woodbridge, VA — 346 16,617  — 346 16,617  2,478  2018 2012 12825 Minnieville Road
Wyandotte, MI — 581 8,023  773 581 8,796  994 2020 2002 1700 Biddle Ave
Ypsilanti, MI — 3,615  12,696  40 3,615  12,736  1,100  2021 1989 4918, 4936, 4940, 4972, and 4990 W. Clark Road
Yuma, AZ — 1,592  9,589  827 1,592  10,416  2,152  2019 2004 2270 South Ridgeview Drive
Zephyrhills, FL — 3,875  27,270  — 3,875  27,270  10,401  2011 1974 38135 Market Square Dr
Outpatient Medical Total $ 388,836  $ 762,068  $ 4,252,019  $ 2,413,016  $ 974,176  $ 6,452,927  $ 1,566,457  (1)
(1)
130
Welltower Inc.  
Schedule III  
Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  
December 31, 2022  
(Dollars in thousands)  
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period    
Description EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuildings &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to
AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuildings &
ImprovementsAccumulated
DepreciationYear
Acquired Year Built Address
Assets Held For  Sale:  
Brookline, MA $ — $ — $ — $ 3,799  $ — $ 3,799  $ — 2019 1900 125 Holland Road
Centreville, MD — 600 14,602  — — 10,539  — 2011 1978 205 Armstrong Avenue
Dundalk, MD — 1,770  32,047  — — 24,213  — 2011 1978 7232 German Hill Road
Fort Worth, TX — 1,740  19,799  — — 5,091  — 2016 2014 7001 Bryant Irvin Road
LaPlata, MD — 700 19,068  — — 13,891  — 2011 1984 One Magnolia Drive
Las Vegas, NV — — — 2,945  — 2,945  — 2007 1900 SW corner of Deer Springs Way and Riley Street
Rexbur g, ID — — — 67 — 67 — 2018 1900 W. 7th Street
Santa Ana, CA — 2,077  4,705  — — 4,705  — 2021 1992 3730 South Greenville Street
Severna Park, MD — 2,120  31,273  — — 24,207  — 2011 1981 310 Genesis Way
Towson, MD — 1,180  13,280  — — 10 — 2011 1973 7700 York Road
Voorhees, NJ — 1,900  26,040  — — 20 — 2011 1985 3001 Evesham Road
Westfield, NJ — 2,270  16,589  — — 13,314  — 2011 1970 1515 Lamberts Mill Road
Assets Held For  Sale Total $ — $ 14,357  $ 177,403  $ 6,811 $ — $ 133,058  $ — 
131
  Initial Cost to Company  Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period
EncumbrancesLand & Land
ImprovementsBuildings &
ImprovementsCost Capitalized
Subsequent to AcquisitionLand & Land
ImprovementsBuildings &
Improvements Accumulated Depreciation
Summary:        
Seniors Housing Operating $ 1,679,562  $ 2,110,584  $ 18,228,152  $ 3,775,526  $ 2,365,088  $ 21,749,174  $ 4,960,254  
Triple-net 39,179  873,139  6,845,480  586,644  910,570  7,394,693  1,549,022  
Outpatient Medical 388,836  762,068  4,252,019  2,413,016  974,176  6,452,927  1,566,457  
Construction in progress 22,377  — 1,021,080  — — 1,021,080  — 
Total continuing operating pr operties 2,129,954  3,745,791  30,346,731  6,775,186  4,249,834  36,617,874  8,075,733  
Assets held for sale — 14,357  177,403  6,811 — 133,058  — 
Total investments in r eal pr operty owned $ 2,129,954  $ 3,760,148  $ 30,524,134  $ 6,781,997  $ 4,249,834  $ 36,750,932  $ 8,075,733  
(1) Please see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding lives used for depreciation and amortization.
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
 (in thousands)  
Investment in real estate:    
Beginning balance $ 37,605,747 $ 33,670,006 $ 36,027,915 
Acquisitions and development 3,599,107 4,805,086 1,174,148 
Improvements 476,017 282,834 242,147 
Impairment of assets (17,502) (51,107) (135,608)
Dispositions (97,102) (1,063,990) (3,782,120)
Foreign currency translation (565,501) (37,082) 143,524 
Ending balance $ 41,000,766 $ 37,605,747 $ 33,670,006 
Accumulated depreciation:
Beginning balance $ 6,910,114 $ 6,104,297 $ 5,715,459 
Depreciation and amortization expenses 1,310,368 1,037,566 1,038,437 
Amortization of above market leases 3,991 4,036 5,217 
Disposition and other (38,327) (234,397) (684,395)
Foreign currency translation (110,413) (1,388) 29,579 
Ending balance $ 8,075,733 $ 6,910,114 $ 6,104,297 
(1) Includes property dispositions and dispositions of leasehold improvements which are generally fully depreciated. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2022, seven financing leases were
classified as held for sale.
(2) The unaudited aggregate cost for tax purposes for real property equals $31,264,813,000 at December 31, 2022.(1)
(2)
 (1)
132
Welltower Inc.
Schedule IV - Mortgage Loans on Real Estate
December 31, 2022
    (in thousands)
Location Segment Interest Rate Final Maturity Date Periodic Payment Terms Prior LiensFace Amount of
MortgagesCarrying
Amount of
MortgagesPrincipal Amount of
Loans Subject to
Delinquent Principal
or Interest
First mortgages relating to 1 property located in:     
North Carolina Triple-net 8.44% 2023 Interest only until maturity $ — $ 32,783 $ 32,278 $ — 
First mortgages relating to multiple properties located in:
United Kingdom Triple-net 12.00% 2026Interest until maturity; Interest paid-in-
kind until maturity — 624,500 597,198 — 
First mortgages less than three percent of total:     
United States - 9 Various 7% - 17% 2022 - 2026 N/A N/A N/A 68,430 5,815 
Totals     $ — $ 657,283 $ 697,906 $ 5,815 
 
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Reconciliation of mortgage loans: (in thousands)
Balance at beginning of year $ 877,102 $ 293,752 $ 145,686 
Additions:
Advances on loans receivable 33,555 843,249 214,349 
Interest added 49,932 11,815 — 
            Total additions 83,487 855,064 214,349 
Deductions:
Receipts on loans receivable (181,040) (214,132) (17,019)
Loan balance transferred to non-real estate loans receivable — (9,142) (53,071)
Change in allowance for credit losses and charge-offs 2,894 (6,984) (5,645)
Other — (29,619) (329)
Total deductions (178,146) (259,877) (76,064)
Change in balance due to foreign currency translation (84,537) (11,837) 9,781 
Balance at end of year $ 697,906 $ 877,102 $ 293,752 
133
